US	52995883	RUIQAACSA47LC	006008622X	667414217	Dirty: A Search for Answers Inside America's Teenage Drug Epidemic	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Flawed or not, provides real insight into teen drug use	I read this book from a similar point of view as that of Maran--as the mother of a teen pulled into this vortex.  According to every single checklist out there on \\"parenting to prevent drug use,\\" my husband and I pass with flying colors.  So what happened?  That was my motivation for picking up this book.<br /><br />I disagree with her statement that the drug use of my generation was somehow more \\"rational,\\" given the threat of Vietnam duty and such.  This generation has equally \\"rational\\" reasons for tuning out--the possibility of the draft, bleak job outlooks and any number of other valid concerns.  I had trouble with the book until I moved beyond that premise and accepted the points her unconventional approach uncovered.<br /><br />Flawed or not, she followed real kids struggling with real problems, which makes for compelling reading.  She intersperses their stories with an assessment of the problem and the various solutions.  I am inclined to agree with her final assessment as to the real causes for the current crisis, and am hopeful that flawed or not, the right eyes have read her book and might work for change.  Following the stories of the three kids she befriended takes us into the worlds of these individuals, and for that, the book is worth the time spent to read it.  She suggests changes in public policy with which I agree, but gives little to individual families trying to sort out and address similar problems given the state of affairs today.  If you're hoping to find answers for your own particular situation, you won't find that, but you will gain insight into the mindset of many kids today that leads to taking such risks with their future.	2005-08-22
US	52995883	R2SE2AKNJV0I6O	1592531776	94784637	The Complete Guide to Altered Imagery : Mixed-Media Techniques for Collage, Altered Books, Artist Journals, and More	Books	5	147	149	N	N	The next wave.....	I first encountered some of Karen Michel's ideas for altering photos for use in art within the pages of the magazine \\"Cloth Paper Scissors.\\"  As one of the legion who have photos that are less than spectacular, but that still have some sentimental value, I could see the possibilities open up.  So I was thrilled to discover she has written an entire book of her ideas, and picked up my own copy as soon as I could find one.<br /><br />I am not disappointed.<br /><br />Filled with examples of complete works, including the works of other artists such as Lynne Perella, Nina Bagley and Carlo Thertus, the book shows a multitude of ideas for altering not only real photographs, but images from other sources, such as magazines and postage stamps.  Techniques are numerous, ranging from those that are easily done with tools around the house, such as scratching designs in the photos, to more complex techniques, such as the gum dichromate process.<br /><br />My only wish might have been to have some step-out photos to demonstrate the some of the image transfer processes, but the text gives detailed directions.<br /><br />Of special interest is a section on using your computer and photoediting software to alter your images.  Anyone who has ventured into this area will have tried some of the ideas she suggests, but there's lots more to explore.<br /><br />I've already played with scraping and sanding, using watercolor markers and messing around with some of the artistic filters in my Photoshop program. I look forward to trying many more approaches, especially ways to make use of substandard photos in some of my scrapbook designs. Thank you, Karen, for helping push me into the next wave!	2005-08-22
US	52995883	R1TY71BRUMZTQP	0874837286	333020245	Three-Minute Tales	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Margaret does it again!	Storytellers are verbal by nature--hyperverbal, in fact.  When asked to tell a five minute story, most of us stumble.  It's an occupational hazard!  Fear no more.  Margaret Read MacDonald has compiled a book full of three minute gems to help fill those gaps in a story program, or to fit the call for a \\"short little story.\\"<br /><br />She arranges the stories in categories such as \\"humorous tales,\\" \\"stories for young listeners,\\" or \\"scary tales.\\"  Source notes are, as with anything she writes, comprehensive, allowing the teller to explore the story in more depth.  Her trademark telling notes in the margins accompany some stories, making this an excellent resource for use with new tellers.  She even has each story timed, so that if you want a \\"story to think about\\" that is 1 minute 15 seconds in length, you can turn to \\"A Plan of Attack\\" from China.<br /><br />Thanks for a long overdue storytelling resource, Maggie!	2005-07-23
US	52995883	R3OEREMNRYQ4QS	0140138986	56951792	Very Old Bones (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Maybe I'm missing something?	I picked up \\"Very Old Bones\\" at a book sale, based on the back cover blurb.  Having finished the book, I can't say it really had much to do with that blurb.  To be fair, this is the first of Kennedy's books I've read, so perhaps there's some back story I'm missing.  I found it to have rich character development, the kind that evolves as one reads about the actions of a character.  Building the characters in that way is more satisfying to me as a reader than constant description and enumeration of a character. I appreciate that an author lets me figure these things out on my own.  To me, the characters were the most interesting part of the read, and kept me plowing through a storyline that didn't hold my interest that much.<br /><br />For one thing, at times that narrator's voice seemed to break down.  I was confused on occasion, as it seemed to shift from the  third person through Orson's eyes to some indeterminate character.  Maybe that was my own fault, reading on a bus full of teenagers, but nonetheless it jarred my reading of the narrative.<br /><br />I found the ending somewhat anti-climactic.  All this buildup for this?  Maybe if I re-read the book in a different setting, I'd have appreciated it more.  After all, sometimes life is full of drama and struggle, and ends up to be anticlimactic.  Perhaps this is the true brilliance of the book?	2005-07-23
US	52995883	R2X3CZ0JK7IZQ1	1592530192	766458924	Artists' Journals and Sketchbooks: Exploring and Creating Personal Pages	Books	5	35	37	N	N	Lost your muse?  Find it here!	Although the title of this book is \\"Artist's Journals,\\" the inspiration and ideas provided transcend that medium.  If it's an artist's journal you wish to create, she has it covered, from the various forms of journals to the ways one might begin to work with it.  The techniques covered aren't limited to art journals, though. Image transfers?  She outlines about eight different methods for transferring your images to all surfaces imaginable.  Slide mounts? I've never seen such an array of creative uses and treatments of these utilitarian items.<br /><br />She provides information on methods for creating your own journal, from cover to page signatures.  Maybe you aren't interested in an art journal, but would love to craft a special book for someone.  Inspiration served up in this chapter.<br /><br />Techniques for building up images with collage techniques, found object assemblage and a dizzying array of colorants are all provided.  Mixed media artists, scrapbook designers, collage artists and anyone looking for ideas to jump start the creative process will not be disappointed with what they find here.  Highly recommended for all who love to wander the aisles of the art supply stores!	2005-03-05
US	52995883	R23R2AGNM2YV24	1581802366	892639129	Color Index: Over 1100 Color Combinations, CMYK and RGB Formulas, for Print and Web Media	Books	4	45	46	N	N	Stuck for a color combo?  Look here!	I'd heard about this guide on websites devoted to scrapbooking, and when I finally tracked it down, I almost didn't buy it.  I looked at it and thought, \\"What the heck?\\"  It is pages and pages of color combinations, arranged according to color groupings, with suggested \\"moods,\\" like \\"retro.\\"  So what? I thought.<br /><br />However, my respect for the work of those who'd recommended it overcame my initial doubts.  As a designer in paper arts, I tend to get into my color ruts, and choose the same basic color combos. \\"Color Index\\" has helped me break out of my rut in a couple of different ways.<br /><br />Sometimes, when I just don't feel inspired, I'll simply sit down with the book and page through it, tabbing color combinations I find interesting or appealing.  Later, when I'm working in my studio, I'll take a look at the tabbed combos for ideas I can use.<br /><br />Other times, I may know of one color I want to use for a design, but am stuck for accents to use.  I'll take the paper I've chosen, page through the combinations and take into consideration those \\"moods\\" as well.  I've discovered many combinations of color I'd never have considered otherwise, like tan with deep burgundy, accented by bright turquoise. Sounds like a bizarre mix, but it worked for that project, which was eventually published by a major scrapbooking magazine.<br /><br />The book isn't flashy like other design books, but I've found it to be a dependable while inspiring workhorse in my studio.	2005-03-05
US	52995883	RP0YDD24NJ4FG	1861081936	892042222	An Essential Guide to Bird Photography	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Solid advice for novice and expert alike	This book offers some ideas and techniques I hadn't really encountered elsewhere.  For instance, Mr. Young suggests and even encourages new bird photographers to spend lots of time photographing common or even tame birds at parks.  For most of us who become serious about bird photography, we have come to it as birders, and you know how *they* can get!  If not, read The Big Year, and you'll find out.  Point being, as birders we seek the unusual, and when we become photographers, we will do the same. Mr. Young elegantly makes his case for the birds in the park, suggesting that learning tricks of exposure, flight shots and all the standards can be learned with a bit less waste of film.<br />He also gives some good advice for equipment that might be less costly for those of us without the income to support supertelephoto lens habits.  I had not heard of the photoadapter setup he shows, but will probably explore this option.<br />Most of all, he gives excellent advice on all aspects of bird photography; equipment and film selection, location and approaches, and various techniques.  I found his liberal use of side by side photos showing the same bird shot with different techniques and approaches to be very helpful.  Mr. Young is not afraid to share his mistakes as a teaching tool.  He also includes a chapter on archiving, so that one can begin to learn from mistakes made.<br />All in all, I have gained much from this book and highly recommend it.  For me, the one downside is that he is based in the UK, so he is talking about birds and locations there, but this added a bit of fun, as he discusses shooting such rarities as the American robin!	2004-06-08
US	52995883	R1A0CTDXS4WG9T	0811726886	809741843	Ruby-Throated Hummingbird	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Great photos, wonderful content--a must-have	The ruby-throated hummingbird and I have quite the adversarial relationship. My stories of hummingbird encounters are becoming almost mythic in proportion, as I wage my battle to capture *the* perfect hummer photo.  I have learned that unlike their Hollywood image as little gems from heaven, they are really rather nasty at times, especially to those of us wanting to photograph them! Mr. Sargent knows this, as is evident in his well-written text describing  the behaviors of this bird. He uses words such as &quot;mean spirited,&quot; &quot;hot tempered&quot; and &quot;little bullies.&quot;  I have seen all of these descriptions in action.  This is part of what makes this book so enjoyable, because along with providing a wealth of detailed information about all aspects of the bird's life cycle, he does it with an endearing and humorous slant, showing at once his admiration for and understanding of the hummingbird's nature.<br />The photos that accompany the text are the ones I wish I could take, showing the ruby-throat in fighting trim as well as bedraggled from migration.  I can only guess how many frames were taken to get the many included in this comprehensive book.  In my dogged attempts to get even ONE photo this good, I've read every book I could find on hummingbirds, particularly the ruby-throats. This is by far the best one I have found.  Not only does it inform, it always entertains, a rare combination in a birding guide.	2004-06-04
US	52995883	R1GB4KLTN6UVMH	0792268784	161395409	National Geographic Photography Field Guide:  Birds	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A good general guide to avian photography	As if teaching children with challenging behaviors isn't enough, I spend much of my time off birding with my camera.  Some might argue the two activities are one and the same, and anyone who has tried to capture a great blue heron lifting off the wetlands, only to turn tail and fly behind rushes would agree...speaking from experience. Whenever I set off to capture the feathered members of our planet,  I get a few shots, but always think I could do better. If only I'd not moved so fast, if only I could afford a 600mm lens, if only...<br />Mr. Simmons's book has helped me to look at bird photography a bit differently, and given me permission to be happy with the good shots I do get.  Although he covers many of the basic tenets of bird photography, such as knowing your subject, having the right equipment, and shooting techniques, the true gift of this guide is his concept of showing the birds in their environmental setting. Most of his photos are those wonderful bird portraits in larger than life detail we would all love to take, but he makes a good case for showing birds in their habitat, providing enough detail to identify the bird.  Most of my photos are of this type, because although I am fairly good at stalking and being patient, my longest lens is still only 420mm with a tele-extender.<br />He gives information on how to shoot various aspects of bird behavior, such as courtship, nesting and flight, and this information is all helpful.  He also gives ideas for various categories of birds, such as shorebirds.  The book is guidebook sized, so it can travel into the field with you. If you wish to become more serious in your efforts to take photos of birds, whether in the field or at your backyard feeder, this is a great resource.	2004-06-04
US	52995883	R389RLSGZ9DSIJ	1579903347	585555993	Making Creative Cloth Dolls	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Excellent primer for art dolls in fabric	I made the mistake of buying an art doll magazine while out on an &quot;artist date&quot; not too long ago.  As if I didn't already have enough projects going in many different directions, that got me hooked into the fascinating world of art dolls.  These are not your standard Raggedy Anne dolls!<br />  Ms. LeVan has provided a great resource to start dabbling in the world of art dolls if your medium of choice is fabric, as mine is. She provides three basic designs, each quite different.  A pattern that will need to be enlarged is provided within the pages, and directions for the construction of the basic design are included. The directions are quite thorough, but do require some basic sewing knowledge, although this only needs to be &quot;basic.&quot;<br />  The fun is seeing the variations of each design done by several well known doll artists.  They really show that though each design is very simple, with imagination, the artist can enjoy making each doll unique.  There is also a gallery of special project dolls using a variety of techniques, with instructions for these as well.  If that isn't enough to inspire, a photo gallery is included to provide more inspiration.<br />  I have already made one of the basic dolls, &quot;Energy,&quot; adding my own touches to the design.  I found the instructions to be very easy to follow and enjoyed working with the design.  The size is just right for anyone who is participating in a round robin doll project, keeping postage costs down.<br />  If you have been intrigued, as I was, by the art doll movement, this book is a great starting point from which to join the movement.	2004-06-01
US	52995883	R3N397DSWJUZCQ	0817458948	660251608	Spirit of Place: The Art of the Traveling Photographer	Books	5	39	39	N	N	Truly captures what it means to be a travel photographer	I love travel and I love cameras.  Unfortunately, as many of us often discover, my photos don't always capture the essence of my travel experience.  I know I've been frustrated many times that some quixotic quality of my travels is missing from my photo album.<br />Bob Krist's book has helped me to see that what I am missing is the spirit of place, which of course is different for every location and every traveler.  While the book covers the basics of equipment management, shooting decisions and the like, it is less a technical guide and more of a philosophy of travel.  His approach to travel informs his approach to travel photography. He seeks to be a &quot;traveler,&quot; not a &quot;sightseer,&quot; wanting to engage with the culture in which he finds himself.  I find this concept to be especially helpful in pinpointing my own disappointment with my photos.  While I follow his approach of being a traveler, I have hesitated to capture the people I meet along the way. It's that element I always feel I am missing in my work.<br />He gives some tips and insight into how to begin to approach people to get those great people shots, how to get past the initial fear of offending, and how to handle a situation where you might be refused.<br />Above all, the examples and photoessays speak volumes about how to approach such work.  It is clear that Bob Krist is a master in his approach to capturing the essence of a place, whether it be the Jazz Quarter in New Orleans or a blinding snowstorm in Hokkaido.  If you are looking for ideas and inspiration to improve the photos you bring back from your next adventure, I'd highly recommend Spirit of Place.<br />(Gwyn is an enthusiastic photographer who, among other things, travels overseas each summer with teenagers as a People to People delegation leader.  Yes, teenagers!)	2004-06-01
US	52995883	R208NWPBWI7JLE	1581803176	19258691	Creative Correspondence	Books	4	29	29	N	N	Ideas that will find use beyond your post office	What does a person who has tired of the &quot;same old, same old&quot; in the world of scrapbooking do to keep things interesting? If you are like me, you might look at other paper arts and see how they might be used in scrapbook design. Always eager to find unique ideas for making my pages more interactive, CREATIVE CORRESPONDENCE caught my eye.<br />  The cover promises 20 unique card and envelope projects, but each project offers a number of variations.  I've had classes in book arts, so some of the information on folding techniques was familiar to me.  Still, I felt the step by step photos of projects were very useful, and actually appreciated the fact that some of them used busily designed papers.  In many cases, that is what I might use myself, so it gave me a sense of how that might work.  I also appreciate the creative, artsy examples liberally pictured throughout the book, many of which use scraps and even junk mail in their creation.<br />  I especially liked those projects that formed a small book of sorts, like the folded photo frame and the hinged envelope surprise.  I can see making use of these designs to add interest to scrapbook pages, as well as creating interesting types of snail mail.  Remember snail mail?  If you still have occasion to find &quot;real&quot; mail in your mail box, this book's true gift might be the inspiration it provides you to pull out your art supplies and make a really cool mailing to surprise a distant friend.	2004-05-21
US	52995883	RF1GRQKXII1GQ	0743245458	648294984	The Big Year: A Tale of Man, Nature, and Fowl Obsession	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Not for birders only!	THE BIG YEAR tells the stories of three men determined to set a new record in North American birding.  Not exactly the sort of topic that sounds like it would have mass appeal, right?<br />I will say at the outset that yes, I am a birder, but no, I have never attempted a Big Year, or even a Big Day. Still, when I read the write-up of this in a book club catalog, it was too much for me to resist.  I'm glad I allowed temptation to take hold.  As a birder, I certainly identified with the excitement each of these men felt upon sighting a new or unique species.  I enjoyed the more avian terminology.  Most of all, I enjoyed reading about three men obsessed with their goal to the point of maxed out credit cards, strained relationships and loss of work.  In other words, I enjoyed the stories of those who dared to follow their obsession to the extreme.  Anyone who has ever wished they could just take a break from their regular life to follow a dream will find this an enjoyable read.<br />The three men chronicled are as different from one another as they could be.  Sandy Komito is a self-made working class man, who already had attained a Big Year record.  Brash, charismatic and determined to have a leg up on the others, he muscles his way to birding &quot;hot spots&quot; ahead of the others, often leaving a greeting with other birders to say &quot;Sandy says 'hi.'&quot; Al Levantin is recently retired and a devoted husband, whose wife tells him that now is the time to follow his dream.  His birding exploits look a bit like the XGames as he cycles, hikes and packs into difficult viewing venues across the continent with an ease and grace belying his retired status.  Greg Miller is a recently divorced, out-of-shape, computer specialist racing the clock to bring everything into Y2K compliance at a New Jersey nuclear power plant.  It is the interplay of the three very different men, and their very different approaches to meeting the same goal, that is the real core of the book.  I found myself cheering on one in particular, but another reader may find themselves pulling for one of the other two. Obmascik does an excellent job of detailing all the salient character traits of each birder, while maintaining a fair and neutral stance toward each.  Favorites are not played, which allows readers to choose for themselves.<br />Along the way, we experience birdfall at spring migration along the Gulf Coast, the vexing gray owl in the northern Minnesota boglands I remember from my own youth and the harsh extremes of Attu Island in Alaska, as birders seek to add rare bird sightings from migrants blown east from Asia.  In the end, one birder sets an incredible record of 745 bird sightings in 1998, a record unlikely to ever be surpassed.  Want to know who it was?  Read THE BIG YEAR.found myself cheering on one in particular, but another reader may find themselves pulling for one of the other two. Obmascik does an excellent job of detailing all the salient character traits of each birder, while maintaining a fair and neutral stance toward each.  Favorites are not played, which allows readers to choose for themselves.<br />Along the way, we experience birdfall at spring migration along the Gulf Coast, the vexing gray owl in the northern Minnesota boglands I remember from my own youth and the harsh extremes of Attu Island in Alaska, as birders seek to add rare bird sightings from migrants blown east from Asia.  In the end, one birder sets an incredible record of 745 bird sightings in 1998, a record unlikely to ever be surpassed.  Want to know who it was?  Read THE BIG YEAR.	2004-05-21
US	52995883	R3FT166RIFVIJ6	156308919X	932129991	Raising Voices: Creating Youth Storytelling Groups and Troupes	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Absolutely NOTHING is left out!	Maybe I'm just a wee bit biased, since I get mentioned in the acknowledgements, but even if that weren't the case, Judy and Kevin have done an incredible job of putting together THE resource guide for anyone interested in helping cultivate the next generation of storytellers.  Whether you work with kidtellers in a school, church, community setting or another venue, this book is worth every penny it will cost you.<br />I've coached kidtellers at both the middle school and elementary school levels for about eight years, but Judy has been at this three times as long at her middle school.  Her years of experience, along with Kevin's insights as the advisor to a high school telling troupe, are invaluable for any of us just starting in this venture.  From the logistics of how to promote involvement, stories to tell, managing your resources, arranging opportunities for telling experiences and many things you never even considered, it's all in the pages of this book.<br />There are a very few other books out there that address the concerns of those working with youthtellers.  The books by Martha Hamilton and Mitch Weiss, along with Len Cabral's storytelling book for kids, have long been among my favorites, and will continue to be.  However, none of them covers the many aspects of actually organizing your troupe, helping it to grow and celebrating it's success quite like \\"Raising Voices.\\"  Of particular interest is Judy's approach to recruiting adults in the community and training them to become story coaches to the tellers.  Not only does this allow the kids more frequent opportunities to rehearse and refine individually, it develops relationships across generations, something that is in danger of dying in our culture today.<br />If I had to limit myself to only one book to help me in my journey as a coach of young storytellers, this would be it.<br />Judy and Kevin have truly filled a niche with this volume!	2004-05-16
US	52995883	R16VWQ15Z5MACW	0385512104	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time: A Novel (Alex Awards (Awards))	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Shares a candid and favorable picture of an autistic mind	The premise of &quot;Curious Incident&quot; seems almost impossible, but works in a straightforward yet engaging manner--much like those students of mine who are autistic.  Christopher is a 15 year old young man living with his father, who has been under the assumption that his mother died of a heart attack.  When he finds the neighbor lady's dog stabbed to death with a garden fork, he decides to do some &quot;detection&quot; to discover the dog's murderer and bring him to justice.  In the process of doing so, Christopher uncovers some family truths and his well ordered life begins to unravel.<br />Much has been learned in recent years about the way many people with autism process information and see the world, thanks to people like Temple Grandin and Donna Williams, who have broken through and written about their own experiences.  Haddon's bio says that he worked with individuals with autism, and the development of Christopher reflects this personal background.  Clearly, Christopher has had heavy doses of social stories and social skills sessions.  He explains regularly that he does this &quot;because this means...&quot;  He will launch into seemingly unrelated concepts and give detailed descriptions, explaining how his mind works.<br />The story moves forward not in spite of these digressions, but because of them.  Although Christopher might &quot;obsess&quot; about some minute detail, they often lead to his own discoveries that force him to make hard choices--such as stepping outside his highly predictable routine to find the train station and travel to London in search of his mother.<br />The depictions of Christopher's many strange behaviors and coping skills rang true for me.  I pictured similar behaviors by my own students, and this allowed me to appreciate the character development all the more.<br />Clinical observations aside, it's a great story.  In this day of novels about downtrodden protagonists defying the odds and coming into their own, Christopher's story, by virtue of his direct narration, is a refreshing change in the genre.  Although he is a young man totally mystified by human emotions, as a reader, I found myself unable to put the book down until I knew how things would be resolved for Christopher and his family.<br />For those of us who are lucky enough to have someone with autism sharing our life, much of the story will engage because it is so familiar.  For those of us who have not had much experience with these special people, it is an engaging and insightful look into the workings of the mind.  Most of all, it's a highly original and creative point of view for telling a story.s story, by virtue of his direct narration, is a refreshing change in the genre.  Although he is a young man totally mystified by human emotions, as a reader, I found myself unable to put the book down until I knew how things would be resolved for Christopher and his family.<br />For those of us who are lucky enough to have someone with autism sharing our life, much of the story will engage because it is so familiar.  For those of us who have not had much experience with these special people, it is an engaging and insightful look into the workings of the mind.  Most of all, it's a highly original and creative point of view for telling a story.	2004-05-16
US	52995883	R1WF08XXSNKT9K	B00009EF81	466482043	Flesh and Blood	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Just what I wanted for a long flight!	Over the years, I've enjoyed the Alex Delaware novels, in the way that one enjoys hearing of the latest exploits of an eccentric uncle---nothing heavyweight, always entertaining.  Preparing for a three week journey with 33 teenagers to the British Isles, including a nine hour flight, I knew just where to look on the bestseller racks, and this is the one I brought.<br />  Any reader of this series will begin to recognize some of the devices Kellerman always employs in his stories--detailed physical descriptions of each character that leave nothing to imagination, the travels throughout LA mentioned by another reviewer, and the backstory and references to events in previous novels in the series.  I am convinced that everyone who has read two or more of these novels could, when asked, draw a picture of Detective Milo Sturgis, and regardless of artistic ability, all drawings would be identical.<br />  Despite these eccentricities of writing style, Kellerman again delivers what most of his readers seek, involved convoluted plots based on the patients child psychologist Alex Delaware has treated that ultimately dabble in the human psyche.  In this one, a troubled young woman whom he treated briefly as a teen, but who apparently was deeply affected by her short time with him, turns up brutally murdered as a young adult.  Detective Milo eventually takes on this case that was first brought to his attention by Alex when she turns up missing.  The storyline takes twists and turns alternately between the worlds of the sex industry and experimental psychology, dovetailing the two worlds in a plot twist that Delaware fans will enjoy second guessing. Even being relatively unfamiliar with the personal details of Hugh Hefner's life, I also thought the similarity of Tony Duke was striking, and maybe a bit disappointing.  Kellerman certainly could have invented a character that was a bit more original, but really, character is less his forte than plotting, so I forgive him that flaw.  I think it is a credit to his plotting that although by this point in time I have read nearly all the Alex Delaware novels, I still needed to be at least two thirds through the book before I'd made most of the inevitable connections that are revealed in the last chapters of the book.  After all, isn't that the mark of a good page turner? The ability to engage the reader into trying to figure out the plot before the last page? If that's what you as a reader are seeking, without having to challenge a jet-lagged, travel weary mind too much, look no further.I think it is a credit to his plotting that although by this point in time I have read nearly all the Alex Delaware novels, I still needed to be at least two thirds through the book before I'd made most of the inevitable connections that are revealed in the last chapters of the book.  After all, isn't that the mark of a good page turner? The ability to engage the reader into trying to figure out the plot before the last page? If that's what you as a reader are seeking, without having to challenge a jet-lagged, travel weary mind too much, look no further.	2003-07-10
US	52995883	RY84OAOLXEG0T	0823048985	433732724	Special-Effects Scrapbooking: Creative Techniques for Scrapbookers at All Levels (Crafts Highlights)	Books	5	76	78	N	N	Really original ideas, ahead of their time	I had the privilege of taking two workshops with Jill Miller at my first-ever scrapbook convention, way back in the year 2000.<br />Both classes introduced me to techniques we now call &quot;Shabby Chic,&quot; all the rage in the scrapbook world at the time of this writing, but totally unheard of nearly three years ago.  I wish that all my many scrapbook classes and workshops since those first two had been half as innovative as Jill's.<br />I was delighted to see that she would be publishing a whole book of her ideas, and waited eagerly for its release, which was quite some time in coming.  Now that I have the book, I can say I was not disappointed.  It's substantial in size and content, something one does not always get in the world of scrapbooking idea books, about 130 pages long.  I don't really understand why it hasn't received more attention, because it certainly deserves it.<br />The book is lavish in its color printing and detailed close ups of the sample layouts, which cover every page.  Jill comes to scrapbooking from the world of stamping arts, and this is THE hot trend in scrapbooking these days.  She covers techniques involving the various pearlized powders and shimmering paints, metals including paints and leafing, all manners of distressing your media, and the newly hot textures, including molding paste, embossing and lacquers.  Each project sample is clearly labeled beginner, intermediate or advanced, allowing the artist to choose which level with which they feel most comfortable.  Materials lists are very clear, as are directions.<br />My guess as to the reason for its quiet entry into the market is that since it was a long time in production, some of the layouts look a bit &quot;dated&quot; in this trend of the week hobby.  As scrappers, don't we all reflect back upon our earlier work and laugh at how far we've come?  I would not let that get in the way of purchasing this treasure trove of ideas and instruction, though.  The layouts are all lovely and timeless in their appeal, and the directions will allow the reader to venture into new territory using whatever level they are at right now.  I can say that this really is one of the most comprehensive and innovative books I've seen in this industry--strong praise for a hobby that lately has at least one new &quot;idea&quot; book a week of late.  If you like to experiment and do your scrapbooks for the joy of creating, you will not be disappointed with what you find in these pages. (Gwyn is a scrapbook designer for Fibers By The Yard and Scrapbook Impressions)nd timeless in their appeal, and the directions will allow the reader to venture into new territory using whatever level they are at right now.  I can say that this really is one of the most comprehensive and innovative books I've seen in this industry--strong praise for a hobby that lately has at least one new &quot;idea&quot; book a week of late.  If you like to experiment and do your scrapbooks for the joy of creating, you will not be disappointed with what you find in these pages. (Gwyn is a scrapbook designer for Fibers By The Yard and Scrapbook Impressions)	2003-07-10
US	52995883	R37HXP4CNS140J	0399231420	986939045	Hope Was Here (Newbery Honor Book)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Sometimes what you are looking for is right there	Hope has been looking for her father, who she doesn't even know, as she and her aunt Addie move from one town to the next.<br />Hope has to face the small town midwest in a Wisconsin cafe, and she isn't really too excited about yet another move, especially from New York City to Mulhoney Wisconsin.<br />  Add to this the fact that G.T. Stoop, suffering from leukemia and the cafe owner, has just declared his candidacy against a long-serving and apparently corrupt mayor, and the stage is set for a coming of age story with a twist.<br />  As Hope begins waitressing in the restaurant, she learns, as small town waitresses often do, all about the people in her new town.  Some of what she learns gets her excited enough to start working on G.T.'s mayoral campaign.  The campaign is the backdrop against which Hope comes to terms with her constant moves in life, her wayward mother who visits on her on a whim, and Braverman, the grill cook who moves from a 7.5 on the &quot;guy scale&quot; to close to 9 in short order!<br />  In the midst of all this, Hope yearns to find and know her father, and in a surprising and sweet twist at the end, her search ends, but not at all in the way she or the reader expects. When so much of the fiction written for this age group lately seems full of angst and dark themes, &quot;Hope Was Here&quot; is a breath of fresh air; witty, clever and not at all saccharin, with enough in the way of &quot;grown up&quot; themes to appeal to older adolescent readers, yet allowing those same readers to have what the heroine's name has always suggested--hope.	2002-01-08
US	52995883	R2HVME9W32PE79	0671024256	44310359	On Writing: A Memoir of the Craft	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Not for writers only!	I have spent many an evening editing student writing, and even more evenings reading whatever isn't nailed down, including some of King's many novels and stories.  What I most appreciate in his many gems of advice is the admonition that to be a writer, one must read a lot and write a lot.  Period.  No shortcuts.  Of course, he gives us much more than this, including his own rituals as a writer, along with examples of good and bad writing techniques.  Some of his biases kept me laughing out loud, as his frequent mention of his aversion to adverbs.  Others crystallized for me exactly *why* something in writing I have read grates on me--the overdone description comes to mind.  I knew those kinds of passages bugged me, but until I read his rationale using the example of his own book, CARRIE, I never really could explain it. Now I can.<br />Most striking to me is the fact that EVERYTHING he says to do or not do is EXACTLY the same advice I have learned and try to practice as a storyteller.  Cut out the unnecessary embellishment.  Don't worry about theme. Remember the characters and the story are what  matter, the rest will take care of itself.  The story chooses you, not the other way around.  Again and again, what he says writers need to do to write well is the same advice I've received from any number of storytelling coaches about what storytellers need to do to tell well.  Is it any wonder, then, that King's novels and stories continue to satisfy his readers?<br />Along with the practical stuff, I very much enjoyed getting to know Mr. King as a person, with his often funny and self-deprecating view of himself and his life.  One might at first wonder what the autiobiographical stories have to do with writing, but they reveal the forces that made him a writer.<br />ON WRITING really is a wonderful look at what it takes to become a writer.<br />(This review has been edited to remove occurences of unnecessary adverbs!)	2001-11-16
US	52995883	RCQTWK0SIK6JA	0312261322	387814599	A Certain Slant of Light	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Characters clash, then blend, in story of hope	Peter lives a solitary life along the rural Maine coast;  Elaine, eight months pregnant, comes into his life in the midst of a terrible ice storm, seeking a solitude of her own in which to sort out her life.  In this beautifully crafted novel, the secrets each carries are revealed early in the plot.  It is to see how Peter and Elaine each come to terms with their own secrets that keeps one reading.<br />  Peter has spent the last twenty years living in guilt for the loss of his family to a fire while he was away at a bagpipe championship.  Winning the national prize was no comfort for him upon learning that his whole family perished in the blaze, and so, he retreats to his lonely existence at a family cottage, never playing the pipes again.<br />  Elaine crashes into his quiet and well ordered life, refusing to be moved from her spot.  She too, has demons with which she must wrestle, but hers are spiritual.  Her religion does not allow transfusions, and because of a youthful transgression, she may have a baby with Rh postive blood.  Peter, with much trepidation, allows her to settle in to find the answers she needs to her problems.  Her baby is born, and their life takes on a new type of ordinariness, cadenced by the daily rhythms of milking, planting, cooking and tending to the flocks.  As Peter comes to enjoy her presence, he also comes to realize that his past is passed, and he needs to come to terms with that, too.<br />  This quiet story glows with the depth of the characters and their thoughts, and the reader, through the author's ability to evoke a sense of place, can feel and smell the barns, the rhubarb pie cooking, can hear the quiet night sounds of the cabin and the plantive singing of Elaine or Peter finally playing his pipes again.  The story moves along, much like life itself, through normal days, dramatic events, quiet epiphanies and endings that are hopeful, but not Hollywood.	2001-07-26
US	52995883	R37FXAXRXP8JRS	1892127113	674676321	Creative Photo Cropping for Scrapbooks (Memory Makers)	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Some ideas you've seen--some are really innovative	I had not run out to buy this book when I first heard of it, having learned--finally!--that just because I scrap doesn't mean I need EVERY new thing that comes along.  The cover suggested such basic things as silhouetting, which was not news to me.<br />Then, others in one of the online scrapping communities began to sing its praises.  So many that I decided to just go ahead and get it anyway.  I'm glad I did.<br />Indeed, some of the old stand-bys are present, such as silhouetting, but some of the ideas are completely unique. Some will even challenge the reader to look at day to day things and photograph them differently, just to try some of the techniques shown.  As an example, some of the techniques involved multiple prints in b/w, color and sepia, artfully cut and arranged like a puzzle to create an arresting scene.  Others showed scenes taken from the same vantage point throughout the day, then cut into strips and woven into a composite.<br />Many of the techniques are ones that have become familiar, but are shown here with a slightly different twist, such as photo mosaic layouts and self-framing of the photo.  Long time readers of Memory Makers will recognize some of the layouts shown on some pages, which is a pet peeve of mine when I purchase a book created by a magazine publisher, but there are so many new ideas to wake up tired layouts, I have decided to overlook this little  flaw.<br />The techniques range from those that can easily perk up any layout to some that the scrapbook artist will use sparingly, as a personal challenge.  Not every techniqe will please everyone, but there is enough variety within the pages of this book to get any of us motivated to stretch our layout designs every so often!	2001-07-24
US	52995883	R5G4HXRDTJ8V1	014131088X	618877188	Speak	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great depiction of an adolescent in turmoil	I am glad to see that so many who have reviewed this book are the readers for whom this book was intended.  The subject matter is tough, and perhaps some of the readers have had to deal with similar issues themselves.  They should find hope in Melinda's story.  Others may be lucky enough to be in supportive homes, or to be part of the &quot;in&quot; crowd.  They may need this book even more, because Melinda's experience is unfortunately too true.  Those who have not been in her place can begin to understand life from a different perspective, begin to learn that people come from all kinds of experiences, good and bad, and that those experiences sometimes cloud the real person hiding inside.<br /> In Melinda's case, that real person is perceptive, witty and worth getting to know.  The author's voice was refreshing, taking on much of the language of high school hallways.  Melinda's acerbic wit helps to make the reading of this difficult and painful story enjoyable nonetheless.  The depictions and characterizations of various teachers will be recognized by any who have frequented high school.  I just don't want MY students to tell me which one I was!<br />  Most intriguing to me was the author's use of a tree as a metaphor for Melinda's journey of self-discovery and path toward wholeness.  It was so subtle in the beginning, and drawn out so beautifully by the end as a symbol of healing and rebirth. Like the tree, the roots of her problem were deep and the wound scarring, but also like the tree, with care she will go on.  Trees have served as such symbols in many mythologies, and the storyteller in me appreciated how it was woven throughout the story, barely aware that it was symbolic, until near the end.	2001-07-08
US	52995883	R1XXY54IOL2WZ6	014029628X	180693945	Girl in Hyacinth Blue	Books	5	15	17	N	N	A mysterious painting and its owners throughout history	The &quot;Girl in Hyacinth Blue&quot; is a testament to Vreeland's ability as a writer.  She uses her words to paint eight very different stories about the people who have owned this painting throughout time and their struggles in life.  Some, such as the math teacher who owns it in the first story, have deep psychological secrets to face.  Others, like the French diplomat's wife in Holland have boredom in a shallow world  with which to contend.  Yet what ties these very different stories together, besides ownership of the painting, is the way in which Vreeland makes the painting itself the focus for all of these characters.<br />  I especially enjoyed the way she was able to create a sense of time and place over the centuries and still make the individual characters come alive within the space of a chapter.  I had just prior read &quot;The Girl with a Pearl Earring,&quot; and found it interesting to see how she would develop the character of Vermeer himself.  His aloofness from the day to day concerns of life, even his making of the paints in the attic, were very similar to his depiction in &quot;Pearl Earring,&quot; suggesting that the historical research of this artist was thorough.  &quot;Girl in Hyacinth Blue&quot; is the type of book that one will want to savor, yet at the same time find difficult to put down.	2001-06-20
US	52995883	R2WFXVQEM4PM9Z	0446676136	756843172	Reason for Hope: A Spiritual Journey	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Reaffirms why I so admire this woman	I was one of those kids who was just at an age to be fascinated by the National Geographic when Ms. Goodall's first article was published in it.  I looked at the pictures, yes, but then went beyond them to the remarkable text about her remarkable experiences.  I eagerly gobbled up each new installment of her life among the chimps of Gombe.<br />  As a college student in communication disorders, my early interest in primates that was spawned by her work reasserted itself, when I did my senior paper on the chimp language studies being done at that time, taking an anthropological point of view. I had thought maybe one day I would find myself following chimps through the African forests.  I have been to Africa, but have not seen the chimps, though that may yet happen.<br />  This is a book written by a very public woman who has maintained a very private personal life. I was especially interested to see what she had to say about religion and science, and more than anyone else I have read, she embodied the true sense of what it means to be spiritual.  Her description of the vivid experiences she had upon the death of loved ones, and her eventual healing and acceptance of what life had dealt her, was particularly poignant and inspiring.  Her views of what is really important in this world are clearly shaped by her unique experience among the chimpanzee community at Gombe, but she elucidates so clearly these values for all to consider.<br />  Most amazing to me, however, is her willingness to accept the call she felt to leave her beloved Gombe behind most of the time to travel the world, hoping to create change in our attitudes and specific practices that harm animals and the environment.  Any of us who have felt the pull from something we love to take us into action can relate to the strength of her convictions.  I am so inspired by this book, in fact, that I have already begun to explore how I might start one of her &quot;Roots and Shoots&quot; programs for kids at the school where I teach.  There are not many books that stir in me an almost immediate response like that.<br />  If you have an interest in Ms. Goodall, in her work with chimps, in the relationship between science and religion, or in how one person might begin to work for change, this book will not disappoint.  Her clear, direct voice about her purpose on this planet is refreshing and inspiring.school where I teach.  There are not many books that stir in me an almost immediate response like that.<br />  If you have an interest in Ms. Goodall, in her work with chimps, in the relationship between science and religion, or in how one person might begin to work for change, this book will not disappoint.  Her clear, direct voice about her purpose on this planet is refreshing and inspiring.	2001-06-06
US	52995883	RW5G4KAOYF7US	0425102416	602354563	Across Five Aprils	Books	4	25	29	N	N	Great historical novel ends with a fizzle	I read Across Five Aprils along with my own son and the 8th graders I teach as part of a unit on the Civil War.  Ms. Hunt does a wonderful job of drawing her characters, particularly Jethro Creighton.  Jethro and his family, farming in southern Illinois, find that even though they are not in the midst of the battlefields, their lives are nonetheless swept up in the events of this tragic period in our history.  Jethro's growth and understanding of the sweep of history as well as of himself are well-detailed.  Well they might be, as Ms. Hunt crafted this story from family stories of her great-grandfather, who was the young protagonist, making this novel something between historical fiction and family lore.<br />  She deftly weaves the family events with historic fact, adding faces to the stories in the history texts.  As a midwestern gal myself, I found the perspective of a family from that part of the country to be very interesting.  Many other similar works make their settings much closer to the historical action, and it is this unique setting that allows the reader to understand just how all-encompassing the Civil War was for the whole country.<br />  I found the last few chapters to be disappointing, as she seemed to want to rush to the end of the war and hence her story.  The writing took on a feeling of newspaper reports of battles, with very little of the narrative from the Creighton family viewpoint that made the book so engrossing.<br />  As a teacher, I feel that the authentic dialect that was used in the dialogue might make for somewhat difficult reading for many kids who struggle with involved text.  Nonetheless, a book such as Across Five Aprils makes for a much more interesting and meaningful study of the Civil War than the dry texts we read and forgot.	2001-06-05
US	52995883	RYX51RWD9PL33	0385333005	230034308	Driving Mr. Albert: A Trip Across America with Einstein's Brain	Books	4	4	5	N	N	What a long, strange trip this was!	When I first heard about this book, I thought it was one of those weird, stream of consciousness stories, so when I discovered that yes, the pathologist who autopsied Einstein *had* taken possession of his brain, and yes, Paterniti *did* travel cross country with the now-elderly pathologist and brain, I just had to read it for myself!<br />  The book itself, like the situation, defies easy categorization.  I found it to be at its best as Paterniti describes the travels and visits cross country with the likes of  William Burroughs and crazed night clerks for Days Inn.  He peppers the travelogue with details about the previous owner of the brain in the trunk, Albert Einstein, which were also interesting, particularly in the context of the journey. I did not feel especially drawn to the ramblings and philosophizing Paterniti sometimes felt the need to include, but was willing to go along for that ride to see where the rest of the journey would take me.<br />  Most compelling is his portrait of the pathologist, Dr. Thomas Harvey.  At turns irritated with his quirks and fascinated by him, he paints the doctor as a somewhat eccentric but gentle octogenarian.  He handles his near-obsession with the desire to actually see the brain in question with as much dignity as this  whole crazy scenario will allow.<br />  If you enjoy the genre of &quot;truth is stranger than fiction,&quot; you will find &quot;Driving Mr. Albert&quot; as living up to this category of non-fiction.	2001-05-10
US	52995883	R1MNQINU8FP3C6	0684853701	87039745	A Beautiful Mind: A Biography of John Forbes Nash, Jr., Winner of the Nobel Prize in Economics, 1994	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Glimpse into brilliance and madness	The story of John Nash and his life's work, both in mathematics and in his personal affairs, is captured in detail in this biography by Sylvia Nasar.  Through exhaustive research and interviews, she paints a deft picture of the man, leading the reader to see the plunge into schizophrenia that was at first thought to be nothing more than his characteristic eccentricity.<br />  As I read through the book, I kept thinking to myself, Has Nash read this account himself, and what would he have to add? It is apparent in the account that Nasar had access to transcripts of interviews and conversations of others in reporting his perceptions.  Most interesting are his self assessments of the illness and his ability to evaluate and &quot;contain&quot; himself when certain thoughts or ideas enter into his consciousness.  Certainly, key to his recovery is the fact that he is allowed his own space, and I have great respect for this journalist who did not intrude for the sake of her writing.  She also did a wonderful job of showing how the care and concern of his friends and family were probably instrumental in effecting his recovery.  Their actions, taken at personal risk and with  concern for another human being over their own comfort, are a testament to their compassion.<br />  I also found the description of the mathematics community as a whole to be fascinating reading.  I have grown up in a world populated by those in related fields.  My father and grandfather are engineers; my sister-in-law is an engineer; my younger brother is well-known worldwide in his field of research in physics.  I took the classes and even understood them, but I am a storyteller and teacher, not a scientist.  The interesting camaraderie of this community of scholars, and the portrayal of them as really kind of regular people with intense interests in a discipline that is so remote for most of us was very reassuring. I, too, enjoy the challenge of games, but never realized it was the basis of serious mathematical thought and study!ous mathematical thought and study!	2001-04-14
US	52995883	R21U3MG7XDC01U	0806999764	396906245	The Art Of Rubber Stamping	Books	4	22	22	N	N	Technique AND eye candy in one volume	Most rubber stamping books I've seen are one of two types; lots of beautiful samples, but little content to be of help to an inexperienced stamper, or good content instructionally with little to inspire.  This book has ample amounts of both.<br />  The basic information is presented in the beginning, explaining supplies and techiques.  Each technique is clearly illustrated, with supply lists and step by step instructions. The techniques run from bleach stamping through various applications for thick embossing powder, to stamping on art metals, to various brayer techniques.  A beautiful sample of each technique is shown in each set of instructions, sometimes more than one example.  At the back of the book is a gallery of sorts, showing what several stamp artists have been able to achieve with the use of some of these techniques.<br />  I did notice the missing steps mentioned by another reviewer, and would have liked the missing steps inserted somehow, as it is a technique I'd like to try sometime.  Perhaps newer editions have corrected this mistake.  Otherwise, whether Suze Weinberg actually created these techniques or not, I am appreciative of a book that has polished examples with clear instructions that even those like myself who are &quot;stamping challenged&quot; can aspire toward.	2001-03-27
US	52995883	R12HYYG97B4NVB	0375706410	663303744	Waiting: A Novel	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Love amid the revolution	&quot;Waiting&quot; was a book club choice, not my choice.  This is why I am in a book club; because sometimes a selection is made that I would never have considered for myself, and discover that it is completely compelling.  Like the love affair of Lin Kong and Manna, I couldn't wait to find the time to pick it up and continue reading.<br />  I usually did not have to wait long.  Lin and Manna did, and that may be the ultimate theme of the book.  It is said that delayed gratification makes the getting all the sweeter, but after 18 years, Lin who had settled into a kind of routine in a world where life IS routine, finds it difficult and unsettling to adjust.<br />  In some ways, I felt that the story of Lin and Manna's unrequited love was backdrop to the setting of China as it moves from the days of the Cultural Revolution, with all of its rules and strict codes, to the days when influences from the western world begin to creep in and change the fabric of life.  That a couple would so willingly abide by such restrictive laws about marriage is incomprehensible in this world of disposable marriages.  That they were able to control their passions for over 18 years is incredible to those of us who live in the land of instant gratification.  It is this restraint and control, more than anything, that truly explained the absolute power in China at that time in its history.<br />  Beyond the historical and cultural themes, though, the sad discovery of Lin Kong that maybe his life was not so bad after all is universal in any time and place, making his story all the more poignant to the reader.	2001-03-27
US	52995883	R1DQKOP5UNI28A	0897748484	925030773	Storytelling Games: Creative Activities for Language, Communication, and Composition Across the Curriculum	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Excellent resource for teachers and tellers alike	Doug Lipman never fails to disappoint, and this book is no exception.  He provides a wealth of language-based activities that can not only enhance storytelling abilities, but can be used to reinforce classroom skills and concepts or provide a fun team building game.  The games are rated and ranked in every possible fashion, making it easy to choose just what is needed for a group;  by age group, by level of complexity, by cultural background, by type of skills emphasized, all neatly indexed in the back of the book for quick reference.  There are games for math and science, games for learning about cultures, games to enhance oral communication skills.  The introductory chapters provide rationale and ideas for creating a joyful learning environment.  Each game is described fully, with a script to make it easy for one to pick the book up and try a game when a few minutes are left at the end of class.<br />  Even adults can have fun with these games.  I haven't laughed as hard as I did when I used one during a storytelling session I was hired to do with a family holiday gathering.  I used the game &quot;Letter Relay,&quot; in which the group had to build a story, taking turns sentence by sentence.  Sounds easy?  Here was the catch.  Each subsequent sentence had to begin with a word that started with the last letter of the last word in the previous sentence. By the end of the evening, mysterious boxes had been left on doorsteps, containing magical Beanie Babies that transported the recipient to all kinds of strange and wild adventures.  All of us in that living room were transported into fits of laughter as the story wound its way to a very final conclusion.  I highly recommend this book, and encourage families in particular to try some of these games instead of turning on the tv.  You won't be sorry.	2001-03-27
US	52995883	R1H0TAJR1HYML4	0679762698	539544634	Encore Provence: New Adventures in the South of France	Books	3	1	1	N	N	More travelogue, less character portraits	I have read Mayle's other &quot;Provence&quot; books, and was absolutely charmed by them, wanting to book a flight to the south of France immediately.  What charmed me the most, however, was not particularly the scenery and locale, but the interesting, quirky folks that figured so heavily in his other books.  He tells us less about these folks in &quot;Encore,&quot; and more about the out-of-the-way places that standard tour guides won't mention.  The charm and wit are of course present, but the interesting neighbors are less of a factor.  Oh, we have Marius, funeral connoisseur, and the story of the murder of the town butcher, who was just too attractive to the wives of some of the men in the village.  These are the stories I very much enjoyed in the other books, and found missing in this one.<br />Nonetheless, the descriptions and details are generously laced with Mr. Mayle's wit and clear love of the place.  Should I ever book that flight to France, I will surely take the volume along as a guide to the &quot;true&quot; Provence.	2001-03-22
US	52995883	R15BQYVM4JR1D5	0874833817	733051844	Ready-To-Tell Tales: Sure-Fire Stories From America's Favorite Storytellers (Multicultural Resource: Stories & Tellers of Many Cultures)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Can't miss tales for beginners and seasoned tellers alike	This book is one of the first of many story collections I have bought in my journey as a teller.  It remains one of my favorites, especially as a resource for the young tellers I have nurtured in my youth teller's guild.  Some of the best tellers around have generously shared tales they have told, along with tips for the teller.  At a time when the word &quot;copyright&quot; often rears its head among the storytelling world, this sharing of a favorite story, with permission to tell, is a rare gift.<br />The stories themselves range from tall tale, such as Chuck Larkin's &quot;Electricity Elixer&quot; to world folklore from David Novak in the story of &quot;The Three Dolls,&quot; and everything in between. Each story has notes from the teller on the meaning of the story to them, the full text of the tale, followed by notes from the teller that will help beginning tellers understand better how to capture the mood of the story.<br />If you are looking for a collection of stories that are sure to please a wide range of audiences, look no further.  This volume will be a great resource for the classroom, library or homeschool families. (Gwyn is a professional storyteller who has coached many middle school students in the telling of their first story).	2001-03-05
US	52995883	RI0DM1S24E05P	0516051458	664622332	Kao and the Golden Fish: A Folktale from Thailand (Adventures in Storytelling)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent resource for developing narrative skills	As a storyteller who coaches young tellers, this book and others in the series have been excellent resources for helping develop narrative skills.  The illustrations are rich with detail, allowing children to develop that sense of &quot;movies in your head&quot; that is so often suggested in books on learning to be a storyteller.<br />  The real value for me, however, has been as a tool for working with the language disabled kids in the middle school where I teach.  Because of the rich, sequenced illustrations, the kids are able to develop their ability to describe, to infer, to make predictions, develop plot and logically order their narratives. It's especially fun for them to develop their stories, then compare and contrast with the original text.<br />  The information on storytelling traditions provided by Janice DelNegro in the introductory pages is very helpful for those who are less familiar with the oral tradition.  Because this story is from Thailand, it would also be a great component of any multi-cultural studies unit.  If you encounter this, or any of the books sadly now out of print in the &quot;Adventures in Storytelling&quot; series, grab them right away.  You will find infinite applications for these books.	2001-02-22
US	52995883	RGXL3E83JGLJB	0312195516	226874686	The Red Tent	Books	3	18	22	N	N	Great story, but not the *real* one	As a student of the Old Testament, I was anxious to read Anita Diamant's midrash of the story of Dinah.  While interesting, I was quite concerned at how much she meddled with the basic facts. This meddling does not involve &quot;filling in the gaps,&quot; but actually changing them in many instances.  Although my reading of the &quot;rape&quot; of Dinah is similar, in that Dinah was not an unwilling partner, many of the other well-known Biblical stories changed the  plot line significantly.  Joseph seen as arrogant in Egypt?  Very possible, but the OT text makes abundantly clear that he did NOT sleep with Potiphar's wife.  Rebecca as a female shaman struck me as just plain silly as well. Although the Biblical narrative is quite clear that the Israelites often faltered between God and the local gods, having Rebecca appear as an oracle in her advanced age was pushing it a bit much.<br />With all this said, I still found the book to be engrossing.  It is at its best when the women are together, in sorority taking care of children, attending births, and gathering in the red tent together in the days when natural light was the only light, and cycles were synchronous, allowing the women to gather.  This apsect of speculative historical fiction was believable and allowed the reader to get to know these women, their hopes, sorrows and foibles.<br />If you are a serious student of Biblical history, this book is not going to do it for you.  If you would be upset by the meddling with the known facts, buyer beware.  If you want to read an engrossing account how life *may* have been in the times of the patriarchs, The Red Tent will satisfy.	2001-02-13
US	52995883	R3ST1TSHT85SD	0440236673	376574359	The Brethren	Books	2	6	6	N	N	Disappointing, even when expecting just a page-turner	Sometimes Grisham manages to move beyond the thriller apsect to higher ground, as in &quot;The Street Lawyer&quot; or &quot;The Testament.&quot; He didn't move above ground with &quot;The Brethren,&quot; though.  Judges in a minumum security prison?  Completely believable.  Running a money making scam from their cell?  Why not?  A presidential candidate hand-picked and financed by the CIA?  Well, maybe not, but I did grow up during Vietnam and Watergate, so it wasn't *completely* outside the realm of possibility in my mind.<br />Putting all these plot elements together and expecting it to be realistic is pretty far-fetched, though.  Realizing that Grisham's strength comes from taking the implausible and making it seem possible made &quot;The Brethren&quot; even more disappointing. The story of the three judges holding forth on an X-rated scam run from the federal prison kept me reading, as they were somewhat interesting and enjoyable characters to follow, even thought they may have lacked any depth.  Trying to see how their story and the story of Aaron Lake would come together kept me going at first, though it was not that hard to see where it was headed after a few chapters.  The rest of the book, I just coasted, not especially caring how it all would work out, because none of the main players created any feeling of sympathy or connection that resonated with me.  Yes, I read it all the way to the end, but more to see if my prediction of the denouement matched Grisham's.  He's done better.  Here's to anticipating his new book, which is supposed to be a departure for him.  I think he needs a break from the legal thrillers for a while!	2001-02-06
US	52995883	R11ZBLFK9VFOR5	0912278773	770696309	Wings of Life: Vegetarian Cookery (Crossing Cookbook)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Great vegetarian recipes for those who really like to cook!	Many years ago, when my husband and I visited my brother in Ithaca, New York, we wanted to eat at Moosewood.  My brother wisely steered us to Cabbagetown instead, and that's where I was introduced to Julie Jordan's cookbook.<br />  For many years a vegetarian, I acquired a lot of cookbooks on this particular way of cooking.  Though not the thickest book on my rack, I still consider it to be one of the best.  Why?  Two reasons.  First, when you look through her recipes, they don't include all kinds of exotic ingredients that are difficult to find living in a small midwestern farm community.  Especially for folks new to vegetarian cooking, being able to use familiar ingredients helps smooth the transition.  Second, she loves bread!  Quite a bit of her book is devoted to soups and breads that, along with a good salad, make a meal.  She gives detailed directions and covers well the art of breadmaking, being very specific in how to knead the dough, which I think is sometimes assumed knowledge in other cookbooks.<br />  The emphasis is on wholesome, nutritious meals that even your meat-eating friends can enjoy and appreciate, not feeling like they have just been fed &quot;rabbit food.&quot;  Many of her recipes are guidelines only, and allow for preparing a meal shared to become an art in itself.  This book is well worth the search if you crave foods that don't depend on meat, but are still satisfying to those of us who have come to equate meat and potatoes cooking with &quot;comfort food.&quot;	2001-02-02
US	52995883	R16V05ZNPOZMMD	0440498058	598774312	A Wrinkle in Time (The Time Quartet)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	&quot;It was a dark and stormy night.&quot;	Thus begins Madeleine L'Engle's classic first volume of her &quot;time trilogy.&quot;  I somehow did not discover this book until I was an adult, and it has become an enduring favorite of mine.  The story of the tesseract travelling Murrys, accompanied by the odd three &quot;Missuses,&quot; has elements of many genres in one tale.  Science fiction, written at the dawn of our own space age, fantasy, coming of age, spiritual quest are all woven deftly in the tale of children seeking answers in a threatening and often dark world.<br />The characters are immensely memorable and interesting, leaving the reader just enough room to imagine for themselves what it would be like to meet Meg, or Charles Wallace, or any of the time travelling ladies who become their guides. Children will read this book for the adventure and plot, which is fully engaging, but adults will read it for the deeper themes that are explored. &quot;A Wrinkle in Time&quot; is one of those rare, many-layered books that will reveal something new to its readers each time they re-read it. Those who are becoming impatient waiting for the next &quot;Harry Potter&quot; might well enjoy visiting this classic, and reading on in the series.	2001-02-02
US	52995883	R1Z032U1C5NLUF	0316777722	491689172	Me Talk Pretty One Day	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Quirky, wry humor, with overtones of bittersweet	A colleague loaned me &quot;Me Talk Pretty One Day,&quot; thinking I would enjoy the description of his encounter with a speech therapist, being that I *am* a speech therapist.  She was right; I laughed my way through his observations of his abduction and his efforts to be cured by never using words containing the offending sound.  I have had any number of students who would bond immediately with Mr. Sedaris!<br />  The rest of his personal narratives kept me at least, if not more, entertained than this first one, however.  His self-deprecating voice casts the reader in his corner, even when he is describing the vices of his misspent youth in performance art, his efforts to find value in Paris by going to American movies, or his total boredom with his father's enthusiasm for music.<br />  Underneath the humor, though, I sensed a searching for meaning or connection when at times he could find neither.  Most readers have had experiences in which they felt completely out of place, or feeling that their lives were at a standstill, and his humorous yet sensitive musings on such themes add a depth to these very funny stories that move them beyond simple comedy.	2001-02-01
US	52995883	R2CFVRS45D0GBY	1929180233	155107655	Simple Scrapbooks: 25 Fun and Meaningful Memory Books You Can Make in a Weekend	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Nice resource for gift album ideas	After looking this over at the store, I almost didn't buy it.  Stacy does a nice job of presenting her theme album concept, but I felt like I maybe didn't really need a whole book for that one idea.  I bought it anyway, thinking it might be a good class resource for the scrapbook classes I teach, and it is.<br />  I am glad I picked it up, because on a more thorough reading, I found that although some of her theme ideas were pretty predictable (&quot;girlfriends,&quot; &quot;holidays&quot; and similar ideas), she does offer readers some more unique ideas as well.  Two that particularly captured my attention were a plan for &quot;My Favorite Photos,&quot; and &quot;Random Memories&quot; albums.  This last is very intriguing, in that she suggests gathering photos that somehow illustrate a memory or concept, like &quot;happy&quot; or &quot;vacation.&quot;  The images are collected under these captions, resembling more the way we actually call up our memories than in the chronological fashion most scrapbooks use.<br />  Those familiar with power planning or power scrapping will not find radically new planning ideas, and those who are not familiar with scrapping may need a basic resource to cover those aspects of the hobby.  I appreciated the variety of styles pictured in the examples, and think that for an experienced scrapper who wants some different angles to try, this book will provide inspiration.	2001-01-23
US	52995883	R2FCKVP66MZWGY	0787955272	560883314	Virtual Faith: The Irreverent Spiritual Quest of Generation X	Books	4	9	11	N	N	A theological dissection of this group from one of its own	I'm a little bit older than this age group discussed.  Okay, I'll admit it, I'm near the advance guard of the Boomer generation!  However, as someone charged with developing educational offerings for my church, I found this to be compelling reading.<br />  The age group of 18-30, no matter what generation in recent years, has typically been absent from our pews.  What makes the Gen-Xers so different, Beaudoin says, is that they WANT to be in a spiritual place, and are hungry for it.  He cites evidence from music, music videos and other sources of pop culture appealing to the Gen-Xers.<br />  One of his arguments I found especially interesting was that which states that this generation has grown up not knowing war, hard times or any of the events that tend to galvanize previous generations.  His theory is that this explains the rise in popularity of self mutilation, otherwise known as body piercing and tattooing, as visible signs of the theme of &quot;suffering servant.&quot;<br />  Whether one buys into his theories or not, there is much here to provide food for thought for mainstream churches wanting to reach out to the Gen-Xers.  He looks at those aspects of Biblical stories that have appeal to this group; he speaks of styles of worship or study that would most attract them.  I don't think anyone who has looked at shelves of bookstores can disagree that there is a great spiritual hunger in our world.  Beaudoin's book will certainly enocurage us to think about how that hunger could be met for this demographic group.	2001-01-23
US	52995883	R3L1ZLHH9DM7LG	0689800770	657763063	Only a Pigeon	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Simple picaresque of a life foreign to most of us	This story, of a young boy awaiting the time when he can race his pigeons, glows with detail of everyday life in a world that would be foreign, both in sights and possessions, to most of the young readers to whom the book is aimed.<br />Rather than evoking a sense of &quot;Oh, what a hard life,&quot; instead Ms. Kurtz tells the story of a day in this boy's life, allowing his spirit and excitement about the thing he really loves to shine through.<br />An enjoyable read in its own merit, Only  a Pigeon is a wonderful resource for any number of curricular topics, whether it is multiculturalism, social studies or even values education.  The paintings show a busy city through which this young boy must navigate, and details of life in Addis Ababa can be gleaned from Cooper's sensitive paintings, without the need to read through description or fact.	2001-01-12
US	52995883	R1KZJO2RQSBUBS	0064405710	85261326	Crazy Lady! (Trophy Newbery)	Books	5	8	13	N	N	Acceptance of differences and discovering our gifts	Yes, there is some language in this book that would not be acceptable unmonitored for young children, though it is kept minimal.  Yes, there are situations in the storyline that are not completely happy. Yet &quot;Crazy Lady&quot; is a book worthy of the reader's time.<br />  At the core of the story is a lonely 7th grade boy, struggling with school and the loss of his mother, along with the trials of being an adolescent.  There is also a lonely, alcoholic woman, trying to do her best for her cognitively disabled son. When circumstances bring these two together, life begins to change for both.  Vernon begins to understand that there is a bigger world beyond him, and that despite his struggles in school and life, he can make a difference in the lives of others.  Maxine, the alcoholic mother, may not fare as well, but she, too, begins to understand that some things need to happen for the best.<br />  Conley portrays her characters in a working class, gritty neighborhood with honesty and a touching dignity.  There is much more to be had from this book in the way of well-drawn characters and settings and the theme of acceptance.  While I would suggest that the reality of tough lives in tough neighborhoods merits monitoring, the story is a true gem of the theme of acceptance-- of those who are different, of our own gifts and limitations, and of the opportunities given us to try and change those situations. I read this book with my own kids when they were in elementary school, and I believe they were richer in their world view after reading and discussing and predicting.  The rough incidents are tempered by moments of family or adolescent humor, and the reader really cares about these people and what becomes of them.  There are people in this world who struggle with some of the same problems in this story.  What happens to the people in this story can help the young reader understand that while they might not be able to &quot;fix&quot; everything that is bad, they can make a difference, and grow themselves in the process.an make a difference, and grow themselves in the process.	2001-01-02
US	52995883	R28SW7N2GVA01Q	0451197747	795266779	The Deep End of the Ocean	Books	2	20	22	N	N	Maybe it's just me, but...	..I just could not get myself to feel much sympathy or identification with Beth, the main character in this story. We all have our moments when we look away from our children because we are preoccupied.  I don't think many of us have them when our kids, who are all small, are in a busy lobby of a hotel in Chicago.  I felt the main character was narcissitic and shallow, and while there are certainly people like this in the world, to really connect with her in this particular story, it would have helped me to LIKE her, which I didn't.<br />  While the book is well written and the storyline keeps the reader going, what I found to be the most intersting aspect of this book was the way the older brother was portrayed.  I found the guilt and his response to it to be what kept me reading this book.  I wanted to know that he would be okay.  While I found myself not really caring about the mother, I DID care about the son.  His feelings, as a confused child missing his favored younger brother, and as an older child, angry with the adults in his family, were captured well and he was a character I could care about.<br />  I wouldn't say don't read this book at all, because I will read almost everything, but I wouldn't put this one at the top of my list.  Sorry Oprah!	2000-12-30
US	52995883	R3OJ92JRPBXUOH	0316601950	760222125	The Pilot's Wife (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Another wife betrayed	Maybe I'm not cut out for these stories of women betrayed by deep, dark secrets.  Kathryn's anguish over the plane crash that takes her husband is wrenching.  The eventual revelations that she gets, from the news releases, from the man from the airline assigned to help her through this, are intriguing.  One always wonders about the families in these crashes, how it is handled, what they must experience.<br />  However, her investigation to clear her husband's name when it appears he is responsible for the crash leads to discoveries that she really didn't know him at all.  It was fairly obvious to me quite early on what was going on in his life.  Even the supposed plot twist was one I could see coming.  I'm sure the intent was to create a story with unexpected twists and turns in the plot line, but they seemed like familiar territory to me.  Another Oprah pick I wouldn't have chosen myself.	2000-12-30
US	52995883	RMZW9USUW9PS7	0374343888	525012122	The Library	Books	5	9	9	N	N	What can happen when you become an avid reader?	I bought this book when I was in the midst of a grass roots effort to get a new library built in my small town.  That library opened four days ago.  Fortunately, unlike the heroine in the book, my motivation was not driven by the need to find a home for too many books, although that new library does contain some of my overflow!<br />  This is a wonderful book about the joy of reading, and the sharing of that joy with others.  Some of us choose to share it through teaching, others through library work or literacy programs.  Our heroine literally shares with her whole community when her collection grows too large for her living quarters.<br />  A wonderful book to share with you favorite reader, or advocate for reading.  A copy will find its way to our beautiful new library soon!	2000-12-22
US	52995883	R2AMXXRZDI3D8N	0140505342	728551830	Aunt Isabel Tells a Good One (Picture Puffins)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A delightful way to learn about story elements	This charming picture book helps young readers or listeners gain an understanding of the things that make a story good, or what the English teachers like to call &quot;story elements;&quot;  you remember, those things like &quot;plot&quot; and &quot;character&quot; and &quot;conflict.&quot;<br />  Aunt Isabel spins a tale to entertain her young guest, and as she does, she explains all the things she'll need to make a good story.  At some points, Penelope protests, until Isabel sets her straight as to why these things need to be included.<br />  I have used this with my middletellers troupe to help them gain a sense of how to structure the stories they tell.  Even though this is a young child's book, my 12-15 year old tellers seem to enjoy this more than any dull lecture I could give them.  And therein lies proof of the value of story itself to teach.  A truly delightful book!	2000-12-22
US	52995883	R2KBF024MBPCJ4	0440414806	159975375	Holes	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Bizarre and complex plot--loved it!	&quot;Holes&quot; is one of those books that either you love or you hate; I loved it.  The premise is so surreal that you can almost believe it--that Stanley, who had a horrible run of bad luck, should be sent to the strangest detention center ever, banished to dig holes every day.<br />  The plot pulls the reader along, leading you through the bizarre landscape and turns of events, along with a parallel plot that takes place many years earlier in the same place.  It is some time before you begin to discern how these plots will dovetail, but dovetail they do, and it impels you to read on and see how it all works out for Stanley.<br />  The plot is almost like a modern morality play, and the characters are so well drawn, that you become engaged with them all, the good and the bad.  If you are a reader who loves what my colleagues and I refer to as &quot;weird&quot; books, this will be a great read.  I have used it successfully as a read aloud with 6th graders, and they loved it, too.	2000-12-18
US	52995883	RBE929X8IIUR6	0689803249	914324833	Pulling the Lion's Tail	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Fresh retelling of an old folktale	The story upon which this picture book is based changes depending on the locale--it might be a tiger in Indian tales or a  bear, as I have heard it told in a Native American version.  In all, the story is a tale of patience and love discovered, and Kurtz paints this theme beautifully in LION'S TAIL.<br />  In this version, set in Ethiopia, the story is told from the point of view of a little girl who feels left out when her father takes a new wife.  The girl gets advice from her grandfather, and thus the tale is set in motion.  What sets this apart from the traditional tellings is the strong character development, as well as the point of view.<br />  Cooper's expressive illustrations set the mood for the story setting, as well as the images of the characters, beautifully.  With Kurtz's well written prose, illustrations are hardly necessary, but wonderful icing on the cake.	2000-12-15
US	52995883	R1QEBN5JIHFM6I	0439227003	116121186	Captain Underpants Boxed Set	Books	4	25	26	N	N	Silliness for the reluctant reader	Yes, &quot;Captain Underpants&quot; is not great literature, nor does it even begin to approach anything beyond lowbrow humor. It may be that these are reasons that kids who have not found reading fun before like his ridiculous exploits.<br />How many kids wish they could run around solving the world's problems--or at least, those in the school lunchroom--dressed in cape and armed with a plunger?  How many kids may even, as toddlers, have thought they were doing exactly that?  I'm sure I'm not the only parent out there with just such photos in the shoeboxes, and I think this is the appeal of these books for kids.<br />I would agree that once your children are hooked, try and encourage them to move on toward more substantial reading.  Then again, I've been known on occasion to read through a  pointless novel as escapism; maybe this is escapism for kids!	2000-12-14
US	52995883	R1SDLVXAB5N08T	059043277X	932563878	Tangerine	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Sports novel with a difference!	Sports novel, coming of age story, surrealistic social commentary--this novel defies categorization &quot;a la teacher genre wheel,&quot; but it never disappoints as a compelling and unusual read.<br />  Paul moves to a new Florida subdivision, and when a strange daily occurence finally forces him to attend a different school in the &quot;tough&quot; part of town, he takes the opportunity and runs. He becomes friends with and star goalie for the ragtag soccer team there.  Underneath all the sports action, there remains a dark and undefinable but very real sense of forboding in Paul's world, and it all seems to point toward some past experience with his older brother, his father's &quot;golden boy.&quot;<br />  The twists and turns in the plot are fascinating to follow, as Paul moves closer and closer to confronting his ghosts.  The reader begins to guess at what these ghosts might be, but  Bloor's writing is such that we stay with it, hoping to find out we are wrong.<br />  The sometimes surreal setting and certain aspects of the plot are not for the unsophisticated young reader.  For those kids who enjoy a complex storyline, and can deal with sometimes harsh realities of &quot;family skeletons,&quot; TANGERINE is engaging from the very beginning.  My son read the book as a 7th grader, and his comment, other than that he enjoyed it, was &quot;I hate when a book makes you think even after you finished reading it!&quot;  As a mom and teacher of that age group, that comment is music to my ears and sums up the book succintly!	2000-12-12
US	52995883	RSBJE353B3K6C	0425171574	616720930	The Wild Within: Adventures in Nature and Animal Teachings	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Spiritual journey in the wild	This is a book which requires that one actually read the dust jacket description.  From the cover and the title, a reader might think this is a book about tracking skills.  It is.  However, the animal that Rezendes teaches his students to track is ultimately themselves.<br />  The other reviews here already outline Rezendes' personal history, which he often uses as example in his teachings.  His approach to self discovery is one I'd not encountered before, however.  Yes, I know many seek quiet in the woods to get in touch with their own spirit, but this notion of tracking and stalking another animal to achieve this end is fascinating to me. Fascinating also are the connections he makes from seemingly  unrelated incidents such as a bobcat's journey and that of spiritual seekers.  He gives us simple exercises we can try in our own &quot;wilderness&quot; to help us experience the ideas he suggests.<br />  His ability to read the signs left by the animals amazed me, and I have been one to look at such things carefully in my own forays into the wild.  This book shows that there is so much I haven't seen, both in tracking wild creatures and my own journey through life.<br />  Whether you agree with his approach or not, this is a highly readable and thought-provoking book, a refreshing change from most of the &quot;self help&quot; genre.	2000-12-09
US	52995883	R3GZ67T6TNPKVO	0395389496	546953115	The Polar Express	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Modern Christmas classic	&quot;The Polar Express&quot; has been in our house since my older son was a toddler.  It was the Caldecott the year he was born.  Fourteen years later, it is still a seasonal favorite.  Van Allsburg always fascinates with his interpretation of the world through his illustrations.  I still remember the sense of surprise when we first turned the page that showed the North Pole, looking like an industrial city.  The pictures of the children playing on the train, the view from the darkened window of the house as the train stops, the wild landscape seen from the train, these images are all etched in my mind from one year to the next.<br />  Beautiful and engaging as the illustrations are, it is the story that captures our imagination the most.  I think my kids still like this book for the story as much as the pictures, as they like to think that there is still some magic in the world, and they might still hear that bell.	2000-12-09
US	52995883	R13FID9DHONGO7	048620152X	820062629	String Figures and How to Make Them: A Study of Cat's Cradle in Many Lands	Books	5	29	30	N	N	The mother of all string figure books!	Ms. Jayne was an interesting woman in her day.  She traveled about the world, gathering anthropological research as she documented string figures worldwide.  This volume is the result of her work, all the more remarkable because she did this around the turn of the century.<br />  Many figures are included here with instructions in the creation of them, as well as anecdotal information based on her interviews with the people who taught them to her.  All of the classics of string figures are included here, as well as more obscure ones she gathered along the way.  This is a must for serious students of string figures, not only for the wealth of information and instruction, but also for its historical value.	2000-12-07
US	52995883	R1207MTCX0L3N5	068807684X	238503614	Super String Games	Books	5	12	13	N	N	My absolute favorite of the string figure series	If Ms. Gryski's first two books, &quot;Cat's Cradle&quot; and &quot;Many Stars&quot; aren't enough for you, you are in luck.  In this third book of her string figure series, she has &quot;strung out&quot; a series of wonderful and realistic string figures that are among those I enjoy using the most.  Many are from the Arctic regions, where the methods of construction vary quite a bit from other parts of the world.  These figures are very challenging to learn, but with her clear directions and the detailed illustrations of Tom Sankey, success is guaranteed.  Although out of print, it is worth the time you will take to find it.<br />If you want to delight onlookers no matter where you are, spend a few hours learning &quot;The Porker&quot; or my favorite, &quot;The Little Dog with Big Ears.&quot;  These two always entertain and bring smiles to everyone's face.  I incorporate many of these figures into stories I tell, but they are fun to create just for enjoyment.  I unwittingly gathered quite a crowd, passing time while waiting for the parade to begin at Disneyland.  I can't think of a greater compliment to the power of string figures than upstaging Mickey Mouse!	2000-12-07
US	52995883	R1T4V3IKDQ5EQ1	0688057926	182672241	Many Stars and More String Games	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Enjoy the world of more complex string figures	This second book in Ms. Gryski's series is excellent for the same reasons as the first, clear, easy to follow directions; but there is more that this book offers the string figure lover.  More complex and less familiar figures from around the world are included here, making this book an excellent resource for those wishing to teach aspects of world culture.  Kids absolutely love to work with these figures and create their own variations, and adults enjoy them as well!<br />  As if that is not enough, this book also includes two stories to be told with the use of the figures as &quot;props.&quot;  One story uses a single string figure, but the other is a delightful retelling from the Pacific Islands that uses a tour de force of numerous figures from throughout the book.  As a storyteller who only uses a string as any kind of prop, I found this to be a wonderful addition to this already great series of books.  Although it is out of print, it is only recently so, and is worth the trouble to search out.	2000-12-07
US	52995883	R2DF00I9M5QNO	0688039413	11427356	Cat's Cradle, Owl's Eyes: A Book of String Games	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Excellent guide to an old folk favorite	Camilla Gryski does an excellent job of taking her readers step by step through the process of creating these figures and playing these games.  More than any other books I have used on the topic, her directions will allow those who need words, those who need drawings, and those who need the sequence of steps to follow along and be successful.<br />This book is one of three in her series on string figures, and gives several variations on the game of Cat's Cradle.  Some may be familiar to readers, but others may not be so common.  Other basic figures are also introduced in this volume.  To get started in this enjoyable pastime with minimal frustration, I highly recommend this book.	2000-12-07
US	52995883	R942HPB1VGXD5	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	He just gets better with each book!	One question I've had, that my two sons have shared, is WHY, if Harry is now a 4th year student at Hogwarts, can't he do a simple transformation spell to lose the hockey tape on his glasses? Although this specific question is not answered in the latest installment, certain aspects suggest the reasons!<br />  Harry, as anyone who has even slightly followed the saga by now knows, is one of two contestants from Hogwarts selected to serve as champion in a contest that has long been shelved due to the danger, between wizarding schools.  There are any number of twists and turns along the way, some predictable, some not. As almost everyone also knows by now, a main character dies in this volume, and my son tried to tease me by suggesting whom it might be, but like my son, I will not spoil it for those who don't yet know.  Rowling does a superb job of giving enough leads to suggest any number of characters. The whole incident, though &quot;darker&quot; as others have suggested, is nonetheless handled in a dignified fashion for the younger readers of this book.<br />  The usual crew is here, including Hagrid, Dumbledore, Snape, and Harry and pals, with some new &quot;cast members&quot; as well.  My personal favorite is the yellow journalist with her magical pen, who causes no end of trouble with her dispatches in the Daily Prophet.  As my son says, &quot;I can't wait til the next book comes out!&quot;	2000-12-01
US	52995883	R1XEC5XZQY6KUO	0824985168	160498097	The Littlest Angel	Books	5	14	16	N	N	A child's eye view of life in Heaven	We purchased this book when my older son was four years old--old enough to have an idea of what an angel is, and old enough to think being an angel at age 4 is not something to be desired!<br /> This Christmas classic is a well-known and well-loved story in any version, but the illustrations in this particular version show Heaven as perceived by a four year old boy, in glowing, child-like fashion. He struggles to have the comportment of an angel, but being a 4-year old boy, this is a tough charge!  The illustration of the heavenly choir and their response to his raucous singing is absolutely priceless.<br />  The story is a true gem for families, and these illustrations allow the reader to picture the angel as he crashes through Heaven, coming to his final triumph on the first Christmas Eve.	2000-11-28
US	52995883	R3D7XBPEBW1JL3	155591957X	206046149	Stories in My Pocket: Tales Kids Can Tell	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Kids can hit the ground running as storytellers with this!	This book is an excellent companion to the authors' book &quot;Children Tell Stories.&quot;  That book helps adults set up and develop kids' storytelling programs in a very comprehensive manner.  This book provides stories with which to do this.<br />  The stories are arranged by difficulty, with excellent telling suggestions alongside the text of the story.  Some are even set up for tandem telling, which I find kids often want to try, but struggle to find a way to make it work.<br />  The stories come from a variety of sources, and they are all guaranteed to please at least one of the kids in your class or group who wish to tell.  As one who has coached many middle-school kids to tell their first story, I find these stories to be excellent in helping those kids who are just not sure how they should proceed.  I highly recommend it for kids who want to tell and the adults who nurture this desire in them!	2000-11-28
US	52995883	R3M8LLSRKFN6S4	1555702538	43579221	Len Cabral's Storytelling Book	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wonderful variety of stories, with telling tips included	Len Cabral is well-known in the storytelling world for his spirited performances of world folktales.  Imagine my delight as a teller and coach of teen tellers to discover this collection of stories, along with tips for telling them.<br />  The first section includes stories with scripted telling tips; when to soften your voice, expressions to make, audience cues to give.  The stories are from a variety of world cultures, making this a wonderful resource for classroom units on multiculturalism as well.<br />  The next section presents even more stories, with less cueing of tips, designed for tellers who have gained some sense of their own voice.  This is a great collection for seasoned tellers as well as those venturing to tell for the first time.	2000-11-28
US	52995883	R2KKG2DE83Y1KB	0060211334	979560236	Santa Calls	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A story for little sisters everywhere!	William Joyce's books topped the list of family favorites when my boys were smaller.  Even as they have passed the &quot;4-8 years&quot; level suggested, this remains a seasonal favorite of my now 10 and 14 year olds.  The story is utterly charming and quirky at once.  Art and his friend Spaulding discover a mystery box in the back yard one day, which propels them on an adventure that grudgingly includes Art's little sister Esther.<br />  Typical of Joyce's &quot;Dali-esque&quot; illustration, the North Pole takes on a surreal appearance, and the story takes a wild turn, with a neat little surprise in the epilogue.  Joyce never fails to delight his readers with his wry view of life.  This book is a wonderful foil for the more traditional holiday reads for kids, and one the grown ups can enjoy fully as well.	2000-11-28
US	52995883	R22OUOZLBAIR8F	1892127083	283791187	Memory Makers Wedding Idea Book: Scrapbooking Ideas, Tips and Techniques	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Great scrapbook ideas, from engagement to honeymoon!	If you, like me, still haven't placed your wedding photos in a nice scrapbook after 20 years, this book will give you reason to be glad you procrastinated.  The editors of Memory Makers have gathered elegant layouts to inspire you to create your own wedding scrapbook. Planning both your album AND your wedding to best advantage for later scrapbooks are included. The layouts showcase a variety of styles and techniques, with many lovely punch art and die cut designs, as well as more unusual techniques, such as stained glass type designs.<br />  I especially like the emphasis this book places on journaling and creative ways to include the stories behind the photos and memorabilia.  The content is comprehensive, suggesting that we think not only of showcasing the big day itself, but all events related to it, including engagement, showers, dress shopping and the honeymoon.  I especially enjoyed one layout that chronicled the photo shoot for the engagement picture.  When I looked at that one, I said to myself, &quot;Yes, only a scrapper would think to have someone take photos of the photographer taking photos!&quot;	2000-11-18
US	52995883	R16EY5R8KSBH19	020140964X	646439584	Grossology	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Absolute big hit with pre-teen boys!	This book is every bit as gross as it promises, right down to the fake vomit packaged with it.  This alone makes it an absolute dream volume for boys. Don't tell them they might actually learn some interesting biology and health information; simply enjoy the fact that you have earned major cool points as adult gift-givers go!  They'd never believe science can be so fun, and their sisters will no doubt enjoy it just as much.<br />  Each section deals with basic science about all those aspects of being human that are not to be discussed in polite society.  The author puts the information in plain language, sometimes in ways that are delightfully direct--that is, if you are a kid!  Other interesting tidbits are added into the mix, making this a guide to bodily function trivia.<br />  If you have the sensibilities that your mother tried to instill in you, you may wish to avoid this book.  If she tried, but didn't have any luck--well, you'll be sneaking a look at this book after the kids have gone to bed.  Truly imaginative, in a gross sort of way!	2000-11-18
US	52995883	R23SZNRU3NZE8L	0394800796	182516970	How the Grinch Stole Christmas! (Classic Seuss)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Magic from my favorite theologian	Yes, no one puts Christmas in its true perspective better than Dr. Seuss and his Grinch.  The youngest child can grasp that no matter how nasty, no matter how diabolical, no matter that the mean old Grinch would steal the Christmas tree right under the nose of little Cindy Lou Who, Christmas will still come, without any trappings.<br />  Dr. Seuss will always bring joy into the family reading circle, but never so much as when you discover that the Grinch's heart grew that day, leading him to even carve the roast beast. Forty years later, when we gather together with my brothers, we still ask the middle one to do his Grinch imitation and to carve the roast beast--and he does!  &quot;The Grinch&quot; is truly a modern-day classic.	2000-11-18
US	52995883	R3R5W49DP6XU0W	0823010198	988597403	Art of the Scrapbook: A Guide to Handbinding and Decorating Memory Books, Albums, and Art Journals	Books	5	29	29	N	N	For those who want to go beyond &quot;plain&quot; scrapbooks	For those who wish to take the hobby of scrapbooking to the level of fine art, this book will provide plenty of inspiration. Covering everything from numerous ways to create and bind a scrapbook from &quot;scratch&quot; to techniques for making your own decorative paper, it's all within the covers of the book.<br />Many different methods of bookbinding are presented in thorough detail moving from simple to more complex.  Paper making and decorative paper techniques, such as batik and various print or collage techniques are presented as well.<br />Very innovative ideas for ways to display your special photos are shown as well. Samples of pages are unlike any I've seen elsewhere, and are always eye-catching.  This book is not one for those who wish to speed scrap, but if you want to create a one-of-a-kind album, or a unique layout for special photos, look to  &quot;The Art of the Scrapbook&quot; for ideas.	2000-11-18
US	52995883	R2F42U56WQUNS8	1558705341	554587326	Crafting Your Own Heritage Album	Books	5	52	53	N	N	Excellent resource for serious heritage scrappers	I've seen several books devoted to the topic of heritage scrapping, but none cover all the details specific to preserving family memories like this book does.  The usual information regarding album choice, supplies and terminology are included here.  Ms. Braun takes the artform a step further and provides examples and ideas to help make your heritage album more than a simple &quot;photo album.&quot;  She suggests principles for choosing color and theme and the book has ample illustrations of pages that reflect an attractive style that enhances rather than overpowers these old photos.  Use of non-photo documents is well covered, too.<br />  She provides a great deal of information for those who might wish to delve into geneaology as part of their project.  Numerous resources are suggested to help the novice explore their family tree.  She even has examples of how to handle the &quot;unknowns&quot; you will certainly encounter along the way.  She shows a pair of photos, one of her great-great grandmother and an &quot;unknown close friend&quot;--not her great-great grandfather!  There's a story waiting to be told there, and what a clever way to include the photo and allow the viewer's imagination free rein.	2000-11-18
US	52995883	R9XJ8UB8JS48S	044023512X	186149727	City of Light	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Fascinating recreation of turn of the century politics	In this novel, set in Buffalo as Niagra's power plant is going online and the Pan American Exposition commences, themes that plague us even today are played out against the backdrop of Louisa Barrett's personal crises.  We have tainted politicians, environmentalists, bribes and the entire gamut that dominates headlines still today.<br />  Louisa Barrett is the headmistress of MacAuley Girl's School, the school for the children of the rich and powerful.  Her position in the city allows her to be privy to many of the secrets and machinations of the power brokers of 1900 Buffalo. She gets drawn into these plots in a many-layered storyline, having to confront her past and make peace with it.<br />  What I found so interesting was the blending of historical fact with fiction.  The book is rich with real characters and events, and they come to life in the context of the tale.  I found the ending to be unsatisfactory, wanting less drama and more tying up of loose ends.  Perhaps that is what makes the book somewhat more true-to-life; the endings aren't always clean and tidy.  Nonetheless, I did little else until I had reached that ending.	2000-11-17
US	52995883	R2YOUPVUK9BE13	0920656749	550197239	The Harrowsmith Perennial Garden: Flowers for Three Seasons	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Excellent guide for northern perennial lovers	This book is definitely a favorite of mine in making my garden plans.  The authors use their own Ontario perennial garden to illustrate and guide the reader through the planning and seasonal chores involved in a perennial garden.  Although their garden style is more formal than mine, they cover choosing, planting and care of perennials in a way that is easily applied in my more casual cottage gardens.  Each month has detailed cultivation and care information for many varieties that will bloom at that time, helping with the daunting task of planning so that a garden has continued bloom throughout the growing season.  Attention to garden &quot;bones,&quot; the structure that holds the garden, is demonstrated in their snow-covered garden photos.  Even barren of life and buried in snow, their gardens are interesting to look at, giving us hope that we too can have lovely gardens year round.	2000-11-07
US	52995883	R3IKDE1OWEL48Z	0517704005	942525030	A Home for the Soul: A Guide for Dwelling wtih Spirit and Imagination	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Planning for a home, not a showcase	If you are looking for lots of ideas for floor plans, design or decorating ideas, this is not the book you want.  If you are looking for a book that will help you create a space that feels like &quot;home,&quot; this book will help you think about what that means in terms of your space.<br />  Lawlor takes an unusual approach to his subject by first examining each living area with respect to the Greek gods typically responsible for that space.  Before one dismisses this as a New Age thing, study the ideas behind the activities represented by that god.  It's simply his &quot;hook&quot; to get the reader to continue on, to think about what this space is intended to do in the routine of life.  As a storyteller, I was thrilled to read of his ideas for planning one's living area, which should be a space for stories, music and social interaction.  He does not ignore the ever-present television, but he does suggest planning for lively, involved social interaction, which we all crave but often lack in our busy lives.<br />  He does give general suggestions for room layouts if you are in the planning stages of construction, and closes each chapter with his vision of the ideal layout for that living area.  He suggests materials, colors, furnishings and accents for each specific area, so that if you are looking to change existing space, you'll find that, too.  Anyone who places a priority on books as a major furnishing component will win me over every time, but his vision of planning for a home, not a house, has appeal as well.	2000-11-07
US	52995883	R230LWJ6S78GGT	0517574136	300220490	Martha Stewart's Gardening: Month by Month	Books	4	37	38	N	N	Actually attainable ideas for the &quot;average&quot; gardener!	I know, I know, this is Martha's stuff, the woman we all love to hate!  However, the book is arranged in a friendly fashion, giving a month-by-month tour of her gardens, with information on typical chores she will expect from her gardeners that month!<br />  As with everything else Martha does, her gardens are on a grand scale and ambitious.  What I like about this book are several things: she gardens in a similar climate zone to mine; her gardens are generally unpretentious, and her English-inspired style is one I enjoy.  Each month, she lays out the work needing to be done for the various flower and vegetable gardens, then focuses on a seasonal aspect of her garden.  The book is lavishly illustrated, and for those of us who are visual people--what gardener isn't?--the ideas are inspiring.<br />  The information is fairly basic, but actually useful to those who are beginning to garden on a more serious scale.  She does not seem to depend heavily on chemical warfare and emphasizes such basics as good soil preparation and the other down and dirty aspects of good gardening.  If your gardening budget can afford it and you find inspiration from good garden design photos, this book is worth your time and money.	2000-11-07
US	52995883	R23NLOZ8S7B4EE	1929180128	604221626	Mom's Little Book of Photo Tips	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Take better family photos with the help of this book.	If you find yourself wishing that the photos you take of your family were better at capturing the events and personalities, this is a great book to turn to for help.  In a straightforward, organized manner, the authors demonstrate photographic techniques along with ideas for unique family shots. From chapters entitled &quot;Your Beautiful Children&quot; to &quot;Fun and Games,&quot; there are many ideas for new ways to capture your family on film.  The photos that accompany each technique or suggestion are ones that were taken by real moms, with regular point and shoot cameras.  Even the ones that line the family up to say &quot;cheese&quot; have a fresh way about them.  Follow the advice in this book, and your trips to the photofinisher should be much more satisfying.	2000-11-01
US	52995883	R34XZ45I6SLJ77	0811824152	249672175	Dancing with Cats: From the Creators of the International Best Seller Why Cats Paint	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Cat lovers, laugh and enjoy!	The photographs of these cats are absolutely stunning and at the same time familiar to anyone who has ever been allowed by a cat to share its home.  While the photography is the main draw of this book, don't stop by just looking at the pictures.  To truly enjoy the genius of the book, one has to read the comments and interviews with the cat-dancers.  From spiritual connection to psycho-babble to childish perceptions, the narration is a delight and a hoot to read.  The book is an absolutely perfect parody, leaving the reader just enough convinced to scratch her head and think, &quot;Is this for real?&quot;	2000-11-01
US	52995883	R134S9OBCGMYFN	0140157379	446962747	Haroun and the Sea of Stories	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A story about story with delightful word play	Poor Haroun.  His mother has run off with the dull neighbor, leaving his father, the Shah of Blah, without any stories to tell, so dispirited is he over his wife's departure.  Haroun, who has recently questioned the value of his father's work, as is the wont of most 12 year olds to do, finds himself off on an adventure to recapture the stories his father must have.<br />  Part fantasy, part allegory and always clever and engaging, the story told of Haroun's adventures speaks to the power of story in our lives and in the world.  The constant word play and twists of language are funny, though at times I felt they became just &quot;too much.&quot;  While we are being entertained by maniac bus drivers, strange genies and odd fish, Haroun and his father both are coming to terms with the things in the world that truly matter.  This is one of those rare books, written for adult readers, that children will enjoy read aloud, cuddled up next to you on the couch, swept away by the fantasy.	2000-10-22
US	52995883	RNFM67JNDHXAM	0380975823	57707100	Jackie Tales: Magic of H	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Storytelling gem in words and photographs	Jackie Torrrence has rightly earned a reputation as the &quot;First Lady of Storytelling.&quot;  She has elevated the art of &quot;porch style telling&quot; to new heights, with her expressive facial and hand gestures, beautiful diction and direct approach to her listeners. Unfortunately, because of medical concerns she is not able to perform any longer, though she continues to work with apprentices  in the art.<br />  How fortunate, then, that we have this book of her favorite stories, with wonderful photographs on every page that come very close to capturing the essence of a &quot;Jackie telling.&quot;  Sprinkled liberally throughout are Jackie's tips for telling these stories, as well as her personal philosophy about the various types of stories included. Most inspiring, though, is her sharing of her personal story, of her positive outlook on life and the will to accept and work with whatever burdens we might face.  This volume is highly recommended for lovers of story everywhere.	2000-10-19
US	52995883	R1ESS67QJNGX5X	0913461202	117677786	Children Tell Stories: A Teaching Guide	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Absolutely the best resource for teaching kid-tellers!	If I were forced to choose only one resource to help me as I teach kids how to go about choosing, learning and telling a story, this would be it.  The authors have extensive experience helping thousands of children to tell stories through their  school residencies.  Many ideas and activities are spelled out to help teachers or coaches prepare students for the often scary task of getting in front of the audience and telling a tale. A variety of methods for story-learning are detailed, allowing for the variety of learning styles encountered in a classroom. Many ideas for ways to use storytelling in school, from a school festival to an inter-generational fair, are suggested.<br />  Especially enjoyable are the many real-life story maps, quotes and photos of kids involved in this rewarding activity.  An anthology of twenty-five stories for kids to tell is included to get your student tellers started.<br />  We do not give kids enough opportunities to get up in front of a group and share something they love.  Storytelling bridges so many of these gaps, and even the shyest kids often discover a new-found love when given the chance to tell a story.  If you are at all considering having kids tell stories, get this book.  It will convince you that you are making the right choice, and give you the tools to carry out your ideas.<br />(Gwyn is a professional storyteller who has coached many middle school students in the telling of their first story).	2000-10-18
US	52995883	R2HYD6HXFZCEM1	0590386336	976871474	The Library Card	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Libraries can change lives	I once heard an author interview with Gary Paulsen, who as a young boy, sought refuge in the local library, soaking up the books there.  These four vignettes about four very different kids and the way their lives are touched by a library card made me wonder if Spinelli was inspired by that same interview to write this book.<br />  Each of the kids experiences alienation in very different ways, and each of the kids discovers themself and their connectedness differently, but the common thread is the library card that magically appears for each.  All of the characters are very strong, and their disaffection for the world is clear.  I especially enjoyed the first and the last vignette in the book. The first tells of a 12 year old boy who has been flirting with street gang behavior discovering the joy of knowledge.  The last one tells of a girl who is new to her school and an outcast discovering the joy of reaching out to another in need.<br />  Spinelli has a way with characters such as these.  He captures their personalities and inner conflicts, but does so with a subtle touch of humor that allows young readers to sense that everything will be okay for the hero or heroine.  As a teacher who often finds myself working with students like &quot;Mongoose&quot; in the first vignette, I've discovered that Jerry Spinelli's books can capture even the most reluctant reader.	2000-10-18
US	52995883	R23XBKL9V6C6M2	0874834007	605602720	Fair Is Fair	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Unique perspective on classic tales to tell	This collection of world folktales has a completely unique perspective from any other story collection.  Author Sharon Creeden is also a trial attorney, and she has used her knowledge of law to augment the stories she has chosen.  Each chapter considers a different aspect of law and includes traditional tales that reflect this theme.  She follows up each story with  stories from the law books that are connected to that story in some way.<br />  As a middle school teacher, I especially like the stories in the section on juvenile justice, particularly &quot;A Robber I Will Be,&quot; about an unruly boy who THINKS he gets his wish when he is allowed to join a band of thieves.  The stories themselves are very tellable, and I can imagine any number of applications of these tales in settings or subjects that one does not usually think of when the word &quot;storytelling&quot; is spoken.	2000-10-18
US	52995883	R2WMG4VFZ44ZM4	0486404005	686254056	Fascinating String Figures (Master String Figures)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A wonderful assortment of unusual string figures	This book, a compilation of string figures previously published in the String Figure magazine, presents the string figure enthusiast with many figures that have generally not been in other more popular publications.  The directions are very clear, and information on the source as well as interesting anecdotes are included for many.  The reader will have their fingers in knots of many designs at a bargain price.  Highly recommended!	2000-10-18
US	52995883	R2BMO9MKIMITTM	1929180055	506874798	The Big Idea Book of Disney Memories (Creating Keepsakes Scrapbooking Magazine)	Books	3	13	13	N	N	Great ideas for Disney photos	The tips and examples in this book will give readers ideas for getting great photos to remember their Disney vacation, as another reviewer has already suggested.  There are many bright and colorful layout examples here, but I felt that many of them were more about the paper piecings and embellishments than about the family's experiences.  Some of the Disney enhancements really do enhance the layout, but most overwhelm the photo images. The Disney photos are so strong to begin with, they would in many cases be best served by more understated treatments and strong journaling that tells the story behind the pictures.<br />  That said, I know there are scrapbookers who really enjoy the details of planning involved layouts, and those who enjoy that aspect of creating scrapbooks will find much inspiration here. Be sure somewhere, though, to really write about your once-in-a-lifetime trip, too.	2000-10-15
US	52995883	R2YZDF65GWMMRX	0789425149	251227005	Lucy Dove	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Almost as good as hearing Janice herself tell the tale!	I am lucky enough to know Janice and have heard her telling of this story which she has put into print.  If you are not so lucky, the book does an excellent job of capturing her haunting, original tale.  The ghostly illustrations set the mood for a graveyard trek.  Lucy, the elderly and brave heroine, has that look of determination of one who will not be put down.<br />  In almost lyrical prose, inspired by traditional Celtic lore, an elderly woman is the brave heroine who sets out to meet a challenge issued by the laird.  The illustrations support, rather than compete, with this tale of a strong woman, but it is the words, imagined in the minds of readers or listeners, that truly cast the spell.	2000-10-15
US	52995883	R38ROA7FPUL8LJ	0689800991	363407805	The Bat Boy and His Violin (Coretta Scott King Illustrator Honor Books)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	A wonderful story on many levels	This book has so many themes superimposed on one another, but they are all presented within the context of a wonderful story about a boy who just wanted to play his violin.<br />  Set among the context of the Negro League era, Reginald's father decides one summer to make him bat boy for his team. The team is down on its luck, and Reginald's heart isn't in this assignment, but everything comes together for him and the team one day.<br />  The history of the era as gently portrayed in the travels of the players is presented for young readers.  The story of being true to yourself, and of parents learning to accept that in their children, is here as well.  Above all else, the story of Reginald and his journeys with the ball players is a story of hope and triumph among the community in a time that was not always seen as one of hope.  Along with all of this, the illustrations of E. B. Lewis capture these themes beautifully.	2000-10-15
US	52995883	R122YU12TIEI6Z	1555911773	400068506	Keepers of the Night: Native American Stories and Nocturnal Activities for Children (Keepers of the Earth)	Books	5	22	22	N	N	My favorite of all the excellent &quot;Keepers&quot; series	While all of the &quot;Keepers&quot; books are excellent in their presentation of Native American stories and activities to enhance learning about the natural world, this one is my hands-down favorite.  There is something magical about the night, and we have strayed so far from that magic in our incandescent world. The stories and activities in this book will allow you to try and recapture some of the enchantment of the nocturnal world for your kids and maybe even for yourself.<br />  The stories themselves are very tellable.  I have had sixth graders learn and tell these tales.  The activities are broken into categories, such as the night sky or nocturnal animals.  This is an excellent resource for anyone working with groups such as Scouts or nature centers, wishing to incorporate enjoyable activities and stories into their night-time programming.<br />  As humans have done for eons before us, take this guidebook with you to your next campfire, and share the magic of stories spun by fireside.	2000-10-15
US	52995883	R27MRA1SWNM6MV	0141308192	669522869	Secret Letters From 0 To 10 (Puffin Books)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Wonderfully engaging!	I don't know if it is the rhythm of the story, or the delightful characters and their changing relationships that  enchanted me so in this story of Ernest and his completely boring, predictable world being upset by Victoria, the new girl in school.<br />  Ernest has lived a clockwork life with his elderly grandmother and equally aged housekeeper for 10 years.  That begins to change, when Victoria and her 13 brothers come into his life. He begins to stray from his dull routine, and one day, discovers a book in the grocery store.  He has NEVER been to the grocery store until he helps Victoria, but on this fateful day, he discovers a book in the paperback rack that may have the answer to his life-long question; where is his father, and why did he leave him?<br />  As Ernest pursues this quest, he finally begins to live life, bringing his grandmother along with him.  Ernest does discover the answer to many of his questions, but more importantly, he, along with his grandmother, discover what it means to really live and love.  &quot;Secret Letters From 0 to 10&quot; is a completely charming read.	2000-10-13
US	52995883	R311QQGNDIE07T	0425174654	773388141	By Hook or by Book (Prime Crime Mysteries)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A real-life string figure enthusiast says &quot;Yes!&quot;	Being a real, living, card carrying member of the International String Figure Association, the premise for this mystery is a natural hook for me.  Maybe the characters are somewhat one-dimensional, but that dimension is a hoot.  As several of the characters point out in the book, only a true enthusiast of the art form would see the value of a lost manuscript by Caroline Furness Jayne as worthy of crime.  These characters display all the necessary obsessions to make the plot work.<br />  The plot may not have been highly intricate--certainly not nearly as intricate as the Inuit figure &quot;Polar Bear Caught in a Fisherman's Net,&quot; which I have yet to master.  Nonetheless, it was engaging enough to string me along, and though I'd had my guesses about the identity of the murderer, that really isn't the point.  This book is a fine example of the adage, &quot;It's not the destination, but the journey that matters.&quot;	2000-10-13
US	52995883	R2UB1AQ9120D3U	0792274989	330614385	National Geographic Photography Field Guide: Secrets to Making Great Pictures	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Comprehensive guide in a very attractive format	For much of my youth, I entertained the notion that I would one day become a photographer for National Geographic, traveling to exotic locations and making beautiful visual statements to be seen by many.  Most of my visual statements have been confined to family scrapbooks, although I have been known to win a photo competition or two!<br />  This guide surpasses all the other guidebooks I have used in my pursuit of photographic excellence.  In a format that is easy to follow, and travels nicely, the authors cover many aspects of photography, from equipment choices to lighting, to composing your shots.  What I find unique about this book, however, are the features scattered throughout, highlighting a particular Geographic photographer and their techniques.  Each offers a glimpse into their philosophy and approach to their assignment. While the book provides excellent advice on the technical aspects, this look into the soul of photography makes this  a guide set apart from all others.	2000-10-13
US	52995883	RZFDXDRAZ8RZP	0963022288	859783480	Scrapbook Storytelling: Save Family Stories and Memories With Photos, Journaling and Your Own Creativity	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Not bad, but lacking the depth I'd hoped to see	Ms. Slan's book will be helpful for those who are struggling to get more than &quot;who, what and when&quot; into their scrapbooks, but for those who are looking to create more meaningful journaling, this may not be the best choice for their dollar.  She provides many examples of topics to explore and ways to write about them, but little in the way of developing the meaningful narratives that tell our descendents about who we were.<br />  For those who simply want a lot of quick ideas to include more writing in their books, this is a good resource.  For those who want to truly leave a lasting story about themselves or their family, &quot;The Photo Scribe&quot; would be a better choice.	2000-10-11
US	52995883	R3CDV4VYY9BECH	192918011X	602226010	The Art of Creative Lettering: 50 Amazing New Alphabets You Can Make for Scrapbooks, Cards, Invitations, and Signs	Books	5	38	39	N	N	No more excuses for poorly lettered titles!	Beautifully lettered titles can make the difference in the appearance of our scrapbook pages.  As a busy person who still wants classy-looking pages, cutting out those letters from templates is too time-consuming to do for every layout.  This is where Becky's book is such an inspiration.  With clear directions and numerous visual examples, she show even those of us with terrible penmanship how to letter wonderful and creative titles.<br />  Beyond showing how to do the lettering, she gives inspiration for clean, classic layouts in all her examples.  She provides many ideas for how to place the letters, so that these 50 fonts can provide a multitude of looks.  There are a lot of books on the market to help us improve our lettering, but if you are looking for only one, this is the one I'd suggest.	2000-10-11
US	52995883	R2JGUYM0BYACMK	0440508398	536260216	The Simple Art of Scrapbooking: Tips, Techniques, and 30 Special Album Ideas for Creating Memories that Last the Lifetime	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Comprehensive AND unique	This guide by the Scrapbook Guild does not have colorful, splashy layouts to study.  Rather, it contains solid information for those interested in this growing hobby, with enough inspiration to encourage the reader to create her own unique albums.<br />  Basic terminology and supplies are covered, and principles of good design are thoroughly explained.  Several ideas for unique albums are included, such as a reading group album or theater event album.  Those readers who feel that only those with kids can create these works of art, take heart.  They will find much to compel them to document their own interests as well.	2000-10-11
US	52995883	RBJ7EN3HR9XKS	0618083456	507300156	The Schools Our Children Deserve: Moving Beyond Traditional Classrooms and "Tougher Standards"	Books	4	4	8	N	N	A call to arms against the &quot;tougher standards&quot; movement	In this election year, with every candidate professing to be &quot;for education&quot; and calling for higher standards and more testing, I wish as an educator in the trenches that these people would pick up a copy of this book.<br />  Kohn writes in a somewhat strident tone about the need to move AWAY from these tests, and toward instruction that is intrisically motivating.  His stridency is the voice of a fanatic, but readers should look beyond the tone to the very strong factual evidence he provides to make his case that the &quot;tougher standards&quot; movement has it all wrong.<br />  Those who are on the front lines will appreciate the research he provides to back up what we already know from experience--that until the students find that learning has its own instrinsic value, no amount of threat of &quot;no social promotion&quot; will do a thing to motivate them to excell.  I have been in the public schools for almost 20 years, and I wish the policy makers and the teacher training  programs would make Kohn required reading.	2000-10-05
US	52995883	R17VZSAI739XHY	0874835917	903207336	Touch Magic	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Compelling insight into the need for story and fantasy	Jane Yolen offers strong reasons for the absolute need children have for stories and fairy tales, in their glory as well as their gore.  In brilliant, almost poetic prose, she lends perspective and personal insight into the food for our souls these stories provide.  She shares a particularly powerful example from her own childhood, a book by E. Nesbit, THE POWER OF THE AMULET.  As a Jewish child in New York City, reading this book in about 1946, she was completely drawn into the fantasy world created.  Only as a young adult, upon re-reading years later, did she confront the anti-Semitic bias in the story.  Her point is well-taken, that those themes that an adult considers &quot;ugly,&quot; are not what a child who lives in fantasy will take from a story.<br />  Her other essays face head-on the objections that many have to the old tales, and she champions them in their original form.  In the wake of the uproar created by the Harry Potter books, her essays are well worth considering.  We are, as she says, in danger of denying our children their own humanity when we brush aside the many gems of folk and fairy lore.	2000-10-05
US	52995883	RGTHFC2PWJW3W	002044690X	706993740	Story Vine, The	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Wonderful resource for short and unusual tales	Storytellers are always in need of short but engaging stories to round out a program.  Anne Pellowski's THE STORY VINE will not disappoint anyone looking for these types of tales.  There are stories using string, trouble dolls, thumb pianos and even sand! Pellowski, as a storyteller who travels all over the world for UNICEF, is uniquely qualified to write such a book.  I've had the pleasure of hearing her and meeting her in person, and these stories can frame a multicultural story session nicely.  She used a story from each of the ethnic groups to arrive in the area, starting with the Native Americans and ending with the southeast Asian refugees.  The use of the props is not at all distracting, as they can be at times, but integral to the telling of each of these stories.<br />  If you want some &quot;quickie&quot; stories, if you want unusual tales, or if you want to try to use props effectively in storytelling, this is what you want to see.	2000-10-03
US	52995883	R15XIYSDH56EDX	0689818521	652800812	Shadow Spinner	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wonderful tale about the power of story	Storytellers everywhere look to enhance their repertoire, and so the story of Shahrazad, with her tales of 1000 nights, has special intrigue.  Susan Flecther goes one better by weaving a tale of Marjan, who becomes responsible for obtaining the stories for her, and the intricate plot of intrigue and ultimate healing and reconciliation.<br />  At the core of the story is the coming of age of Marjan, as her experiences open her eyes to the realities of life and relationships.  She gets caught up in the politics and cruelties of palace life, becoming an ally to Shahrazad, only to be shocked when her mistress actually professes her love for the cruel king. In the end, it is a powerful story told to the king, full of wisdom, that secures the true love and compassion  for which he becomes known.<br />  SHADOW SPINNER is a book with something for all ages, on many levels.  It is a book that will become richer upon re-reading, which you will want to do. Enjoy the complexity and uniqueness of the characters, the setting and the plot in this well-spun tale.	2000-10-03
US	52995883	R2D5PD1K6YWFI9	0152002197	940800324	Trouble	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A delightful retelling of a traditional tale	Jane Kurtz has once again taken the raw material of the oral tradition and translated it to print, without losing the &quot;feel&quot; of a story told  face to face.  Tekleh, armed with a plaything that was designed to keep him  out of trouble, finds himself trading it and each new item he receives, to  stay out of trouble. As is traditional in such a circular tale, he ends  where he began.<br />  For those who wish to venture into the world of telling  a story without the book, this is one story that will help you avoid  &quot;trouble&quot; as you retell the tale.  For those who appreciate the  appeal of an illustrated tale, the pictures are just enough to delight, but  will allow the reader/listener their imagination at the same time.	2000-09-08
US	52995883	R1UE59SASL7PL	0679442405	860500413	Traveling Mercies: Some Thoughts on Faith	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Spiritual journeys of an honest sinner!	You've gotta love Anne Lamott's honest appraisal of her decision to turn herself over to God.  Most such stories are fraught with angst or deep self-reflection.  My guess is hers actually was, but she paints a much more  real-life picture of  a person who has decided to quit hiding from herself.  If she  can be accepted by Christ after this kind of acquiesence, there's  hope for all of us!<br />  What I enjoy so much about her essays is her  ability to find spiritual moments in the most mundane of things, whether it  is the advance of cellulite or making peace with her hair.  I still find  myself laughing over her decision to forgive a woman who didn't even know  she WAS her enemy, but she was.  She wore Spandex in all kinds of weather.  Because she COULD!<br />  Although many of her insights will ring especially  true for women, men shouldn't discount them, either.  I recommended this  book to my pastor, who then chose it for his clergy book discussion group.  She may shock, she may make you laugh, she may touch deep chords, but you  know these are the musings of a person who has lots of flaws, like all of  us.	2000-07-31
US	52995883	R1A71DEJGMUM8U	0439064864	667539744	Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Delicious fun for kids and adults!	I just finished &quot;Chamber of Secrets&quot;--I'm way behind my son, who's on the fourth book--and enjoyed this story even more than the first book.  Now that the main characters have been introduced, there is more  time for all the antics that take place at Hogwarts.  Harry starts to  wonder about his true origins, he makes discoveries that explain many  things in his life, all those things that your typical 12 year old does, in  a not-too-typical setting!<br />  J. K. Rowling must have had a great deal of  fun with her Fabio-type instructor character, Gilderoy Lockhart.  I'm sure  he's there for us grown-ups, as we have all encountered ineffectual people  who are all style and no substance, as he is. She also has fun with the  mandrakes and the signs they are ready to pick--but I don't want to spoil  that for you!  Read this book and start some enjoyable inter-generational  book discussions with  the kid around the block.  I guarantee that kid will  enjoy sharing reations to Harry and his adventures with you.	2000-07-29
US	52995883	R25VVG2XO9I2SK	0874833051	589276526	The Storyteller's Start-Up Book: Finding, Learning, Performing and Using Folktales	Books	5	52	52	N	N	Great book for those venturing into storytelling	Margaret Read MacDonald has another winner in this book that is guaranteed to help the novice get up in front of a group--without book or script--and share the gift known as story.  She takes the reader through the process of  finding, learning and practicing a story.  She shares a little background  on the importance of story in history and world cultures.  Best of all, she  includes stories with telling instructions.  Unlike many other books of  this type, the stories she includes are not the well-known &quot;beginner's  stories,&quot; like  &quot;The Turnip,&quot; but interesting and fun to  tell, ones you may never have heard before.<br />  Turn off your television  and open up whole new worlds by telling a story to your friends, family,  students, co-workers. You will enjoy the power of a story shared with your  listeners, and &quot;The Storyteller's Start-Up&quot; will be an excellent  guide for the journey.<br />(Gwyn is a professional storyteller who has  coached many middle school students in the telling of their first story).	2000-07-25
US	52995883	R3SDVWV6SIT2N2	0805055835	142595865	Lost! A Story in String	Books	5	6	6	N	N	An antidote to tv spin-off books!	In this story of a little girl who complains when the power goes off, her grandmother shares her own &quot;pictures&quot; by telling her a story with string.  Thus does the grandmother keep alive an ancient tradtion of  storytelling with string.<br /> And thus does Fleischman keep us enthralled  with the possibilities of creating our own string stories.  Following the  story are instructions for making each of the figures used in the  grandmother's story.  These figures are ones invented by Fleischman  himself.  In addition to being a versatile author, Fleischman is a member  of the &quot;String Quartet,&quot; a performing group dedicated to keeping  the art of the string figure alive.  His love for this medium is obvious in  the well crafted story, and the wonderful woodcuts by Morden serve to  enhance, not overpower, the grandmother's telling.	2000-07-25
US	52995883	R1H1CWBBK30VUX	0441005489	294268861	Redwall: 30th Anniversary Edition	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Waiting for the next Harry Potter book?  Read this!	Those readers who love intricate fantasy worlds and complicatedplots, with rollicking good action, will enjoy this and any of theseveral &quot;Redwall&quot; books by Brian Jacques.  To describe the main storyline sounds almost silly.  Mice and other woodland creatures living in an abbey must protect themselves from the evil creatures, usually weasels and ferrets, who would take over their riches.  The characters are richly drawn, and the action is at times intense. Sometimes a character dies, sometimes a character allows the bent for revenge to transform them into less than good--just like in real life.<br /> Brian Jacques creates intricate plots and subplots, but always keeps the main action moving forward.  He delights readers with his dialects and language variants of some of the creatures, most noteably the moles and sparrows.  The peculiar speech of these characters is a challenge to anyone who reads this aloud, but my kids, who are now 10 and 14, can't get enough of these books for family reading time.  If you haven't discovered the world of Redwall, it's time you did!	2000-07-25
US	52995883	R1VW2CI74I83KX	0679776397	598725160	The Spell of the Sensuous: Perception and Language in a More-Than-Human World	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Challenges our assumptions about writing and language	Abram has undertaken a fascinating look at language and not only the changes it has undergone over time, but also how these changes have changed human perceptions.  Another reviewer spoke of all the disparate topics that  are woven together in this work, and that is an apt description.<br />  As a  storyteller,  I found the accounts of the cultures with a largely oral  tradition to be compelling.  In one example, he tells of an aboriginal  Australian man trying to tell the story of a dreamline at Jeep speed, and  running out of breath.  These tales are meant to follow the landscape at  walking speed, and trying to tell them by car changes the entire texture of  the tale.<br />  For those who are looking for a challenging read about our  connection with the natural world, how language interacts with that  connection, and a history of the development of writing, this is the book  you want.  Whether you agree with his ideas and philosophy or not, you will  have much food for thought.	2000-07-22
US	52995883	RKHWZ3S1UVZAO	0060175400	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Well drawn characters spin their saga in the Congo	Barbara Kingsolver uses one of my favorite fictional conventions--the shifting viewpoints of different characters throughout time--to tell this tale of a missionary family in a futile setting.  It is fascinating to  watch the different characters change and develop-or in one case, to not  change- as they struggle with a dogmatic father who fails to see that his  mission in the Belgian Congo can not be realized in the way he would hope.<br />  As the family struggles with the political and tropical climate,the  characters narrate throughout their lifetime how they see each other and  their parents.  These women are so well developed, that after a few  chapters, one can tell who is speaking without reading the chapter  heading.<br />  Although I become frustrated that so many novels portray  members of the clergy in such a poor light, it is probably a reality that  many do struggle with the balance between their beliefs and those of the  people they are trying to convert.  However, to tell this story in this  way, and to see how the daughters dealt with such a man as father and how  that affected their outlooks on life, he had to be this kind of preacher.<br />  Interspersed with the story is the background of the struggle for  independence in the Belgian Congo.  This is an engrossing way to  familiarize oneself with the history of the fight for freedom that occurs  with frequency on the African continent.	2000-07-22
US	52995883	R3AG14PU02JKV6	0961937343	921760048	The Photo Scribe: A Writing Guide / How to Write the Stories Behind Your Photographs	Books	5	44	44	N	N	Excellent guide helps you write the stories behind the photo	I've looked at several books written to help the scrapbooker improve the journaling in photo albums, but this is by far the best.  Mr. LeDoux covers the basics of journaling styles, but goes well beyond these to inspire  readers to really give some meaningful thought to what they want others to  know about the experiences displayed in the scrapbook.  He provides food  for thought, as in his caution that &quot;cliches will never tell you or  your children's children the story behind the photograph.&quot;  It is easy  to caption a picture with such phrases as &quot;oh, where's the  sunblock.&quot;  Go beyond these lines, and really tell about the events,  feelings or outcomes of that trip to the beach.  Mr. LeDoux's book will  help you move toward truly thoughtful and reflective photo-journaling.	2000-07-21
US	52995883	R2MWXJJR8GDWMT	0874779693	311453509	A Fine Young Man: What Parents, Mentors, and Educators Can Do to Shape Adolescent Boys into Exceptional Men	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Sheds light on adolescent males, and how to reach them	I've been a teacher of this species for almost twenty years, and am in the throes of raising two of them myself, but Gurian explains many of the mystifying aspects of teenaged boys to those of us who have never been  one!<br />  He explains the biology and psychology, but more than that, he  shares insights into the ways to best reach and connect with teenaged young  men. As an example, which we probably all know intuitively, but didn't  realize on a conscious level, if you want to try and talk with them, you  have to do something active, like shoot hoops. You also have to be prepared  to take the time to wait.  These are the types of insights I found  personally useful, but there is much more here that is helpful to anyone  who is hoping to help boys grow up into well-adjusted men.  I recommend  this to anyone who spends time with adolescent boys.	2000-07-19
US	52995883	RD00FQHBUMFBC	073700049X	708092572	A Year of Scrapbooking	Books	5	48	50	N	N	Inspiration for tired scrappers on every page	Most books on the topic I buy, then pass on to someone else.  Not this one.  Not only does it cover basic techniques, it inspires readers to try something a little different on their pages; stamping, hand-cut titles and  elements, watercolor borders, to name a few.<br />  The book is arranged by  month, and the examples for each month give new ideas for photo  opportunities.  A scrapbook will only be as good as the photos in it, no  matter how creative the layout, and plenty of tips for improving your  picture taking are included as well.<br />  This book is one I continue to  look to for ideas, even after doing seven scrapbooks.	2000-07-19
US	52995883	R5V7WN54KAO3J	1570251460	952585815	Born to Pull	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Information wrapped inside a beautifully illustrated book	&quot;Born to Pull&quot; was recommended to me by the owner of the kennel where our family would be going for our first mushing experience.  Though aimed at upper elementary kids, the amount of information is amazing.  The  illustrations enhance the content beautifully; particularly stunning is a  painting of a team pulling under the Northern Lights.<br />  Most enjoyable  are the stories interspersed throughout; stories from well-known mushers  such as Gary Paulsen and Jamie Nelson.  Stories of dogs that decided to run  the wrong way at the end of a race, and of dogs who found the way home in a  raging storm.<br />  Reading this book did not guarantee that I would not  wipe out on the sled, but when I did, I knew just what the snow hook was!	2000-07-19
US	52995883	R5N5R8FUMRDP5	0440228352	817747652	Whirligig	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Completely original story of redemption	Paul Fleischman continues to show his varied talents as a writer in this story of a young man who is given a second chance at life.  In an unusual but believelable twist, the protagonist is sentenced to travel the  countryside, making and placing whirligigs in memory of the young woman  whose life he took in a botched suicide attempt.<br /> The story takes  interesting and unexpected turns as it follows him on his journey of the  rediscovery of life.  A very thought-provoking, reflective read for teens  through adults.	2000-07-19
US	52995883	R1G1TEVRZNYB3K	1559716711	457374072	Chased by the Light: A 90-Day Journey	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Amazing restraint-amazing photography	Being from Minnesota and a lover of nature, the subject matter of this book intrigued me.  Having done photography as an advanced amateur most of my life, much of it in the same areas Jim shoots, I am completely awestruck  at his ability to capture such a sense of the northwoods with only one  frame a day.  Besides being a visually stunning work, it gives us  &quot;wannabes&quot; food for thought.  Maybe hunting that perfect frame  would help us capture the essence we want, instead of firing off a whole  roll of film.  Myself, I know that if I ever encounter a wolf in the wild  up close, I won't remember this advice but will take a whole roll, but  maybe after my first encounter, the next one will show thought, inspired by  this book.	2000-05-14
