US	52995464	R3ODAIEB9TZZ18	1557836531	275340250	Everything Was Possible: The Birth of the Musical Follies (Applause Books)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	THEY DON'T MAKE 'EM LIKE THEY USED TO	There ain't many of us, but there are enough of us to warrant a lengthy and detailed account of how Follies came to be.  I'm talking about all of us would-be \\"Broadway babies,\\" who went through college singing the lyrics to songs such as \\"Broadway Baby,\\" \\"Buddy's Blues,\\" \\"I'm Still Here,\\" and sighed some deep ones over \\"Losing My Mind.\\"  We were too late to see the original production of Follies but we know all the songs by heart and the names of stars Alexis Smith and Yvonne De Carlo, despite never having seen any films of either Hollywood lady.  If you can count yourself in this group of show people for whom Follies is legendary, then this book is for you.   <br /> <br />To an outsider, it must read like a technical manual on some weird and twisted process.  To me, it reads like every theatre production rehearsal period I've ever been through (and I'm not even a pro, so to speak) except that the tunes are being written by Sondheim almost minute to minute, Hal Prince is busting himself to get the nuances to be less subtle and Michael Bennett is try to move the thing along at a trot without giving his \\"older\\" actors heart attacks!  Same process, big names, very high stakes.  <br /> <br />The kid, that is the fly-on-the-wall former Follies gofer turned narrator, is good.  Mr. Chapin, as a twenty year old student, worked as the Follies gofer - you think, that could have been me if I had been in the same place at the same time - and kept a journal of everything he saw and heard.  The key here is that he heard a lot and jotted it down verbatim.  For this he should win a friendly Eve Harrington award because without him we would never know, and come to love, such charming and kooky people like 74 year old Ethel Shutta who immortalized \\"Broadway Baby,\\" Gene Nelson who struggled arduously to get \\"The Right Girl\\" just right, or Fifi D'Orsay who sang \\"Ah, Paree!\\" while irritating her colleagues with her fake French persona.  Mr. Chapin, with loving detail, recreates every step of hard work which drove Alexis Smith to a Tony Award winning performance.  He etches out an edgy portrait of Yvonne De Carlo, far and away outside our expectations of the actress we used to know only as Lily Munster.  By the end of the book, I was moved to read about the deaths of many of the people who created Follies.  They are so deeply embedded in theatre history and legend that you do really believe that old saying \\"they don't make 'em like they used to.\\" <br /> <br />From the eager rehearsals in faraway downtown New York, to rocky previews in Boston, and finally to its opening at the Winter Garden, this is a story which includes every human foible and triumph, a theatre account worth its hardcover price.  The introduction by Frank Rich alone is enough to make you stand up and cheer for what Broadway used to be.	2005-05-27
US	52995464	RD3LNOH4230GQ	1400051908	703207753	The Rottweiler	Books	4	6	10	N	N	London creeps	I am an avid, and I mean avid, fan of Ruth Rendell.  Some of her stories have haunted me for years, stories like A JUDGEMENT IN STONE and THE KILLING DOLL, in which she describes situations that are twisted and embedded in everyday life inhabited by psychos who harbour enough malevolence and hopelessless to make you despair for mankind.<br /><br />The story is centred around an antique shop on a street near Marylebone.  Someone has been killing girls and dumping their bodies.  The first body had bite marks and hence the killer is coined the Rottweiler.  Rendell is a genius for merging several plot lines at once and here she is in top form.  The shop owner has tenants in her building, a cast of interesting and suspicious characters, including the murderer himself, as well as a backward housepainter whose vulnerability and confusion drive the plot. Among the sub-plots is this man's sister, who is overwhelmed with equal measures of guilt in caring for her backward brother, and despair for finding any happiness in her dreay London life.<br /><br />This is a great pageturner for a weekend with a book.  Rendell writes a tight plot with creepy, motivated characters and creates enough obstacles and weightiness to keep you in thrall.  In its way, this book is as much about the city of London as it is about people and mystery which is what adds to the pleasure and discovery.	2004-11-24
US	52995464	RUA7BOMNNOOHD	1559212268	118690734	Jane and Prudence	Books	5	46	48	N	N	"I never read anything my mother reads."	\\"I never read anything my mother reads,\\" said my best friend Tom when we were college students.  Although that was a long time ago, I still remember his response when I offered him a copy of a Barbara Pym novel.  Such is the far-reaching reputation of this very entertaining writer.  However, I vouch for the fact that Pym's novels appeal to a much wider public than our mothers.   <br />  <br />Take Jane and Prudence.  Jane is a frumpy but bright vicar's wife who would, in another age and novel, enjoy a profitable career in Human Resources Management.  Prudence, her close friend from schoolgirl days, is a single woman living in a modest flat in London and working in a dreary office but whose life is anything but dull.  She likes fine things, makes up her face artfully and fantasizes about her married employer.  Jane and her husband the vicar have recently relocated to a village vicarage where the locals are hard pressed to accept their new neighbors.  Prudence comes to visit and is courted by the local Lothario who is ultimately swept up by his rich neighbor's hired companion, leaving Prudence slightly bereft and impelled to dally with her pale, lean co-worker who enjoys hiking.   <br />  <br />That's the plot as best as I can describe it, leaving out the small but pretty byroads of church decorating parties, council meetings and office lunches. <br />  <br />Within this precious story is great high comedy, full of irony and wit.  The office scenes are hilarious, depicting an inpenetrable hierachy that had me laughing away.  The village characters are all distinct and never reduced to stock rustic characters, therefore I was fascinated.  The very industrious woman who lands the local but lazy Lothario gives a firm example of \\"setting one's cap\\" to winning a mate.  Pym likes to depict characters who study anthropology and it's fitting that her people in this story are quite a tribal study in themselves.	2004-11-19
US	52995464	RXLV9R83NRY9G	0451526554	363093333	Jane Eyre (Signet Classics)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Upon re-reading	Odd, how re-reading a classic can become a meaningful experience. I'm sure I read Jane Eyre at least two times when I was in high school and again at college. Then there were the films, the most memorable being the one with William Hurt playing Rochester. Yet, last weekend when I was visiting friends and had nothing at hand, I looked at the first chapter and thought &quot;I've don't remember any of this,&quot; and was hooked.<br /><br /> No wonder this book endures and no wonder that readers are entranced: it is an extraordinary story of an individual's struggle to live in a harsh world, find and create physical comfort and sustain an unacceptable love. Even though the story is intensely atmospheric (food, structures, furniture, temperature, clothes and flora are in constant reference), it is Jane herself who drives the story. Where she will find herself and what she will do next is the surprise. No wonder feminists were interested in this book: Jane never succumbs to anyone's idea of what she should do, she wrestles with decisions and bases her choices (that she insists on having choises is already delightful) on her own moral, social code. Hard choices she makes too and we wonder if she'll manage when, for example, she leaves Thornfield and finds herself forced to beg for food.<br /><br /> The writing is sharp and intelligent and...funny too: take, for example, the little girls toppling off their stools during prayers, or the description of Adele's &quot;French&quot; personality. The plot is a stretch but a loveable one. Jane, we are told often, has neither beauty nor stature, the type of person that gets ignored in any social situation. However, this seemingly ineffectual person has two highbrow offers of marriage,inherits a fortune and reaps the bounty of a geniune, loving relationship with the one man who is her intellectual and emotional equal. Not bad for a poor, plain governess in the 1830s.<br /><br /> Today, it might be that religion, scripture and even the idea of morality are concepts that carry too much weight for popular fiction. Jane, a level-headed girl, is neither silly nor preachy. That her thoughts are informed with the religious moral tone of the period makes this story more than a romance or tale of finding true love. It demonstrates how conviction is founded.e idea of morality are concepts that carry too much weight for popular fiction. Jane, a level-headed girl, is neither silly nor preachy. That her thoughts are informed with the religious moral tone of the period makes this story more than a romance or tale of finding true love. It demonstrates how conviction is founded.	2004-07-30
US	52995464	R1LYISPJF48YTD	1400031699	39256491	The Little Friend	Books	5	6	9	N	N	HARRIET!	Although this is a big novel, the character of twelve year old Harriet invades every word. I fell head over heels for her and miss her after the last page left her forever twelve years old and forever frowning at the world in pain and confusion. <br />  <br /> Harriet's family consists of her grandmother, a number of engaging great-aunts, her nearly pre-Raphaelite sister and somnabulant (distanced by grief and tranquilizers) mother. There are no men in her immediate family: her father has absented himself on a permanent business trip; her brother at ten years old was murdered in the back yard while Harriet, then an infant in her chair, sat a few yards away. The plot hangs on this pre-occupied family, a family which both interferes with Harriet's daily life and ignores her immediate needs, both physical (she goes hungry a lot) and emotional (there's no one to defend or reassure her). Her best friend is Hely, a boy whose needs are met by overindulgence and innocent (but to Harriet, banal) childhood occupations such as band practice and camp. <br />  <br /> With this background, Harriet thirsts for vengeance for her murdered brother, now mythologised in family lore and photographs. She determines that the culprit is a member of a notorious redneck family of losers who spend their lives in and out of jail. Around this family, which includes a feeble controlling grandmother and a loveable, lost Down's syndrome child, Donna Tartt creates a monstrous world driven out of control by the 24-hour-a-day, speed-freak brothers. Harriet, in seeking her kind of justice, gets mired in deadly disaster wherein she has no resource but her own cleverness and determination.  <br />  <br /> In addition to the fantastic and satisfying dramatics, there's a ton of wry humour such as the children seated on the bus in baseball caps returning from Bible camp \\"absolutely shattered.\\"  <br />  <br /> Despite the overwhelming characterization of Harriet herself, all of the characters in this book stayed with me. I wanted more. <br />  <br /> Finally, why is this book called The Little Friend? I thought immediately of Rochester and Jane Eyre when he says to her, &quot;I am sorry to send my little friend on such weary travels...&quot; but I don't know if this echo is deliberate or not.	2004-07-28
US	52995464	R2OU36ORYX2ILC	0142001740	378345448	The Secret Life of Bees	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Comfort novel	For a novel which treats a vastly unhappy situation, this one offers a ton of comfort.  At the outset there is little in this story to provide any relief from the desperate situation of 14 year old Lily who, at the age of 4, accidentally shot off a gun which killed her mother and left her in the care of a careless and brutal father during the difficult period of racial unrest in 1964 in South Carolina.  Lily eventually runs away with her housekeeper who has been assaulted and jailed on her way to register to vote.  Lily, obsessed with her mother and her few iconic possessions, eventually finds herself at a beekeeping farm maintained by three sisters who worship a Madonna image salvaged from from a ship's masthead.  The remainder of the story, how Lily discovers her mother's motivations and origins, Lily's involvement with the people she meets during her stay and during her apprenticeship as a beekeeper, becomes sheer delight.  Lily's coming of age, although painful and hardearned, is also a joy because of these monumental women and their endless ability to love and understand.<br /><br />The writing is particularly remarkable, frank and sensual.  Unusual descriptions of river water like beads of milk on a woman's shoulder, of honey being massaged into the wooden statue by many pairs of hands, of heat, bees and smells give this story a special mesmorizing rhythm..	2004-04-27
US	52995464	R3BEWJVT16TP13	0393038580	3632665	Men-of-War: Life in Nelson's Navy	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Navy life for armchair voyagers	Being a known Jane Austen buff, a colleague told me I ought to have a look at Patrick O'Brian's novels which cover the same period.  It has often been remarked upon that Jane Austen ignored the wars taking place during her time.  In fact, she did not. Key characters such as Captain Wentworth (Persuasion) and Fanny Price's brother William (Mansfield Park), were career shipmen whose merits are well-enunciated in her novels.  Two of Miss (how everyone likes to call her &quot;Miss&quot;!) Austen's brothers were also career navymen.  The Navy was all around her and she knew it but had no need, despite that famously interpreted reference to &quot;rears and vices,&quot; to discuss Navy life or strategy.  <BR> <BR>Nevertheless, this reader is curious to know how these men lived away from the ordered, civilised life of those &quot;three or four families&quot; in that country village of which Austen writes and to which these men inevitably returned to marry.  Here in MEN-OF-WAR: Life in Nelson's Navy, we learn about the ships, the gunnery, the lifestyle and the protocol of the 18th century British Navy which successfully defended England from an invasion led by Napoleon. <BR> <BR>The information in this book is concise and easily comprehensible, thanks to an economical and cheerful writing style.  Information is brilliantly illustrated by color photos of paintings, drawings, cartoons and models of sailing vessels.<BR> <BR>On a final note, there is now a wave (pun intended) of interest in Patrick O'Brian as a result of the detailed film MASTERS AND COMMANDERS.  The Navy lifestyle illustrated in this book is depicted in the film, to the advantage of both.	2004-03-19
US	52995464	R2WCGP91V56QJX	0679879250	872660777	The Subtle Knife (His Dark Materials, Book 2)	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Big Ideas and Magic	This is the second of a trilogy by Philip Pullman known as HIS DARK MATERIALS.  The trilogy title has become so popular that different friends are handing me the novels and the London National Theatre production is completely sold out and reported to be magnificent.  I find books and theatre reassuring after the tedium of LORD OF THE RINGS movie mania.<BR> <BR>I'm not a fan of fantasy novels or of children's books.  Nonetheless, I am enthralled with this fantastic tale of humans whose souls appear in the form of daemons, and the girl Lyra who wanders the world in a quest for \\"Dust,\\" for an answer (the question is epic) and for her father.  The true test is when I start to believe in this life where good and evil are in conflict in another dimension which includes angels, human souls that appear as separate creatures, bears that speak and wear armour, just a few examples among many wonders; I am convinced of the truthfulness of the alethioemeter and of Lyra's heroic future.  This author is extraordinarily dextrous and persuasive.<BR> <BR>The Subtle Knife takes us to young Will's world, his longing for his father, his sorrowful love of his mother and his unwitting usurping of the subtle knife.  In this universe centred in Oxford we learn that there are many worlds, in different times and changing dangers, that can be entered by cutting small windows with the knife.  Lyra and Will move, at their peril, from world to world in desperate attempts to retrieve Lyra's precious alethioemeter which has been stolen by an evil friend of her evil mother.  Will and Lyra have that chemistry between them which means not only are they on the verge of adolescence but  on the brink of love, unbeknownst to themselves.  So much magic is happening, maybe this will be different too.<BR> <BR>Many big ideas play into this story: the preparations for a war against the \\"Authority\\" (that is, God), and the discovery that Lyra is not only a very special girl but that she is to be Eve, the first woman, among them.  I can join the ranks of readers who express amazement that these books are written for young adults, especially when Will loses several fingers in the knife fight and literally bleeds through the rest of the story.	2004-03-04
US	52995464	R1F4KP9Y85WHMI	0140107649	628267082	Blue Heaven (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	THE funniest story I know!	When we were seven and eight, my brother and I used to be Lucy and Ethel as the outer space moo-moos who landed on top of the Empire State Building and this book turns the same trick: people I know who read it, cite scene after scene, quoting Philip, Moira and Gilbert with glee. Every time I read this, I remember my excitement when as a kid I watched a new episode of I LOVE LUCY and laughed my heart out.<br />This is THE funniest and most entertaining story I know.  The proof is in the fact that I have read it at least three times and it's powerful humour has never flagged.  I have given this book to scores of people and every single person has raved about it afterwards.  As a social commentary on New York, on contemporary lifestyles, gay and otherwise, it is unbeatable.  From the opening line to the last page, this books delivers pure hilarity.<br />It is pointless to discuss the plot or reveal the jokes.  All I can say is that it's the most successful piece of laugh therapy I know.	2004-02-25
US	52995464	R2N7KHU47OQFNO	0446674362	282618499	The Black Dahlia	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Black and bleak Dahlia	This was not a easy book to find, and once I got hold of it, I found it tough to read as well.   In San Francisco I saw a photo exhibit of Los Angeles police photographers.  Once of the star subjects from the 40s was Elizabeth Short, also know as the Black Dahlia.  There were copies of her letters and other documents and I was hooked and had to know more.  Ellroy's book was the next step.  Unable to find it in SF, at least not in the four bookshops I visited, I finally located it in London.  (This time I didn't try Amazon!)<br />I wasn't disappointed but I was frustrated, only because I wanted to know more about Elizabeth Short but THE BLACK DAHLIA is really about police work in Los Angeles.  The protagonist, an ex-boxer, also wants to know more about Elizabeth Short and the story involves his obsession with her and her murder, his relationship to his job, his pals and the people linked to Betty Short. Even his tough personality cannot withstand the hideous and twisted goings-on in the police force. The story swings out of control when all the characters start to link up so that Ellroy can tie up his story.  He wraps up the Black Dahlia's murder with what I found to be a preposterous conclusion.  Nevertheless, whether or not it's a good point, the description written by the murderer in a journal (the conceit being that murder isn't worth it unless it's recorded) is the most shocking account of murderous human suffering I have ever read.  <br />Toughness extends through every word: the metaphoric and staccoto cop language, the twists of character and desire, and the hard-hitting story depict a world in which there is little comfort and few resolutions of which none are happy.	2004-02-02
US	52995464	R3HP3NZG79XUPC	0060008032	568824372	Angels	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not for women only	Are the novels of Marian Keyes assumed to be for women and lightweight?  Ha, I'm a guy and couldn't tell a sandal from a mule. I read Marian Keyes and I don't go to the beach and I don't like things simple. Although not intellectually challenging, this book tells a great story with wit and intelligence.  I had a weekend to myself and wanted something I could read which would entertain me, transport me and allow me to leave my so-called thinking brain somewhere else so I could relax.  In other words, I just wanted a good book and not a Pulitzer Prize winner.  I was happy to find it in ANGELS.<br />Maggie lives in Dublin and finds out her husband is involved with someone else.  She leaves him, and after vegetating for a few weeks with her parents and sisters, splits for Los Angeles to visit her best friend Emily.  There she encounters Hollywood types and hijinks, and the weird but really entertaining world of the movie industry.  Emily's best friends, her neighbors and her script-writing career drive this story into high gear as Maggie discovers a new world and herself.  As we go along on this fun ride we learn why Maggie and her husband have reached an impasse and why pain can be a touchstone for growth.  <br />The Hollywood setting and Maggie's Irish family (who show up in Los Angeles and add to the frivolity) make this a lot of fun but there's an unexpected punch here when Maggie reviews her two miscarriages and teenage abortion and their influence on her marriage.  These are handled by Marian Keyes with so much depth that I was taken aback by being so suddenly immersed in another world of pain, loss and confusion.  Not all of this book is comedy and not all of it can be dismissed as simple entertainment.	2004-02-02
US	52995464	R2RNVNKY3PJ907	0316089699	279731145	Sea Glass: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Names, Colors and Chaos	This is a page turner which combines historical details and engaging characters with widely different backgrounds and motivations into a cohesive and shocking tale that reverberates with good intentions.  <br />Set in New England during the Depression, a young salesman, Sexton Beecher marries a bank clerk, Honora. The names are important: they echo time, heritage and  personality and thereby keep this story on track. She is everything her name implies, that is, honorable, lovely, intelligent, curious, and clever. She begins a collections of colorful glass that has been washed up on the beach.  The salesman,  a rogue, is attractive and persuasive but flawed by self delusion.  Living in a beach house outside a mill town, they are beset with financial and emotional problems.  Anita Shreve creates an exciting dramatic situation by uniting their upper-class neighbor, a communist trade union organizer and two mill workers, a twelve year old boy and a thoughtful, kind man with the Beechers.  Their common goal is to help others cope with intense poverty, and a mill workers strike.  The efforts of the strikers is rewarded by violence and death.  <br />It is a very attractive story, rich in detail and held together most deeply by the character of Honora and the colors of her sea glass, beautiful things which endure the chaos of the time.	2004-01-09
US	52995464	R3NHM6UJ9HKWXA	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wonderful	The Lovely Bones is a touching reading experience which inspires wonder.  The story is tough: a 14 year old girl is raped and murdered by a sleazy neighbor whom no one suspects.  Her mother, father, sister and brother are devastated and never recover from their loss.  Her schoolmates and neighbors are also significantly affected.  This is a story about grieving and loss.  It's also, and here's where wonder becomes tangible, a story about the life of the dead and their influence on the living.  The murdered girl, Susie Salmon, goes to heaven from where she follows her family and friends -- as well as her murderer who gets away with it -- and shares their emotional nightmare.  <br />What great characters are these people who have been part of Susie`s life and death.  I was fascinated by the trials and reactions of Susie's family.  Her weakened father, her belligerent and determined sister, her four year old brother and her maverick mother.  Eventually, Susie's mother leaves her family.  Alice Sebold depicts how this bereft mother cannot remain with her family and, at the same time, be able to cope with the loss of her oldest child.  Susie's schoolmate, whom she rushes past on swift passage to heaven through the faculty parking lot (\\"She was standing in my path when my soul shrieked out of Earth.\\"), becomes obsessed with Susie and eventually becomes the means by which Susie can finally leave the living and rest her soul.  <br />Although about death, The Lovely Bones is a celebration of life.  It reminded me of OUR TOWN but without a guiding stage manager to ease the painful heavenly experience and put it into perspective.  With Susie as our guide, the reader is made to feel as lost, bewildered and touched as these characters.	2003-12-19
US	52995464	R3AKMMWBSPMORW	0440213290	176496173	The Copper Beech	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Profound and simple	A while ago a friend of mine finished The Copper Beech, sighed deeply, handed it to me and said, \\"what a good story.\\"  I finally opened it when I was lying in a hospital bed,  out of my mind to be more active and  casting about for something in which to lose myself.  This book was  the perfect solution.<br />There is nothing tricky or academic about this story which centers around a schoolhouse shaded by a copper beech in a small Irish town.  The characters' stories are sweet and funny and occasionally very touching.  The people in Shancarrig all want something out of their lives and have the often unclear task of making a life out of difficult situations. On their way, they experience unrequited love, death, adultery (Binchy is adroit enough not to judge too harshly) and murder.  Among the local characters are schoolteachers, a doctor, priests (although this is an Irish town, these priests having nothing in common with Father Ted...), a housekeeper, innkeeper and a rogue.  Although each story seems to be told separately, the tales intertwine beautifully and simply.<br />Some reading experiences, like certain days in the years, are both profound and simple.  Reading The Copper Beech was like that.	2003-12-18
US	52995464	RP0415CXP6HH6	0425179613	495393406	It's Not About the Bike: My Journey Back to Life	Books	4	2	3	N	N	My vote for greatness	I live in the French-speaking part of Switzerland.  I do some Olympic-distance triathlons (in other words, small potatoes). The bike training I do would be considered a ride around the neighborhood by Lance Armstrong.  I read this just before a hospital visit for surgery.  I have a couple of friends who are cynical enough to announce that to be such a champion in the Tour de France, Lance Armstrong uses drugs stronger than aspirin.  This is the same kind of thinking which inspired the idea that the 1969 moon landing was a hoax created for television.  Doesn't anyone believe in greatness anymore?<br />This book is enough to make you go back to church and renew your belief in a higher power.  Lance tells it like it happened and he leaves little out.  He talks about his upbringing, his initiation into the cycling world, his first races, his arrogance, his discovery that he had cancer, his experience with treatment and medical personnel, the reactions of the cycling world and of his sponsors, meeting his future wife, his first child and his winning of the Tour de France.  It's a long road to cover and it never flags for one second.  No wonder it won Sports Book of the Year for 2000.  This book is so compelling I bet it Mr. Armstrong didn't relax until he finished it. <br />When Lance Armstrong talks about his cancer nurse LaTrice who said to him \\"I hope someday to be just a figment of your imagination,\\" I was deeply moved.  I'll be watching the Tour de France in 2004.  I won`t miss a day.  And guess who I'm rooting for?!  GO LANCE GO!	2003-12-18
US	52995464	R20VR6BBF896MO	0452282195	331831848	The Bluest Eye (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	In every city	In an amazingly academic afterward, Toni Morrison discusses the writing in THE BLUEST EYE and analyzes her goals, where she achieved them and where she did not.  If I understand her correctly, she wanted the reader to participate in Pecola's process of self-discovery (or lack of) and learn that every witness is responsible for destroying the life and oppressing the feelings of this child.  She claims to have not acheived this, that \\"readers were touched, but not moved.\\"  I'm not sure of the real difference in being one or the other but I suspect she meant that the readers were \\"not moved\\" to change.  Toni Morrison asks a great deal of herself if she feels she was unsuccessful with THE BLUEST EYE.  I was astounded by its poetry, its revelations, its pain and its deep wisdom.  If ever a book was wise, this is the one.<br /><br />In terms of structure, this book is a masterpiece.  Told from the point of view of two young black sisters (who are poor but better off than Percola) this book narrates the story of Pecola, her mother and father, and the Ohio community in which she lives in the 1940s. Each characterization is so thorough you can almost reach out and touch them; the chatter is so euphonious you can hear it and, despite the weight of this tale, take delight in each personality.  Without a bump, we get the stories of her mother, her father, and the upstairs prostitutes, as well as of several other people who help destroy Pecola. Finally, there's Soaphead Church a self-made community wizard to whom Pecola makes her demand for blue eyes.  Soaphead sees what this is about and writes a letter to God the style and intent of which has to be the first of its kind in all of contemporary literature.<br /><br />And Pecola herself?  In insanity, she finds solace.  We've seen her everywhere, everyday and never notice or chose to ignore her.  She's on streets and in parks of every city, lost in her own world, forgotten by others and outside the margin of any community we canrecognize.  It is, in so many ways, one of the saddest stories ever told.  In insanity, Pecola finds the only comfort she can.  I'm aware that this sounds exactly like the pity that Toni Morrison would want to avoid.  In conjunction with this pity, is awareness.	2003-11-26
US	52995464	R2HAZG6DCN4OP0	140004930X	596030198	The Babes in the Wood: A Chief Inspector Wexford Mystery	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Good, Happily; Bad, Unhappily	Few reading experiences are more steadfast and reliable than a Ruth Rendell novel.   There's the content which is engaging and sophisticated without being difficult to pick up where you left off, or to follow.  Ruth Rendell is a consummate narrator. I don't know if this is deliberate but it's even published in a size and format designed to be held and read at any moment, on the train, in a bus, airplane or waiting room. <BR> <BR>I'm an avid reader of Ruth Rendell, except for the Detective Wexford novels, although I read From Doon With Death.  Not being a fan of detective series, I wasn't interested in trying to follow the rest.  But when someone handed me THE BABES IN THE WOODS I thought I would give it a try.  There's no need to have read any of the previous Wexford novels to follow this one.  Three people, a babysitter and her two teenage charges, go missing. The story traces Wexford and his team, their relentless and patient seach for the truth and the very curious people and situations they encounter.  We are shown religious fanatics, child abuse, wife beating, alcoholism as well as a few caring, unrewarded individuals.  In the background but also menacing is a unusual seasonal flooding which threatens the homes and lifestlyes of all the principal players.  Rarely have I read such complete and convincing descriptions of hysterical, narrow-minded or mean-spirited human beings.  There are an amazing number of threads connecting this large cast of colourful characters and each thread is clear and entertaining, leaving no confusion or frustration.  The narration is so fine, that I was hooked and couldn't put it down.  <BR> <BR>I think it was Oscar Wilde who wrote in THE IMPORTANCE OF BEING EARNEST that &quot;the good end happily and the bad, unhappily, that is what fiction means&quot; as a joke.  However, this is exactly why certain crime fiction is popular and and reassuring.  A good story is what I'm looking for and Ruth Rendell always delivers.	2003-11-12
US	52995464	R10JD5S4VJ0KYR	0007156111	98149052	Man About Town	Books	4	4	4	N	N	THE THOUGHTFUL ODYSSEY OF AN ANTI-HERO	Joel is an anti-hero.  At 45, he's described by his new, young and hunky boyfriend as an \\"old white guy.\\"  He falls far short of the unwritten but absolute requirements that a gay man must have in order to be a player.   Nevertheless, Joel is someone to contend with and Merlis outlines his adventures and self-appraisal with touching and bitter clarity.<br />The story begins when, after 15 years, Joel's boyfriend leaves him for a \\"younger man.\\"  Thus Joel embarks on an oddyssey which includes a search for emotional and sexual contacts as well as an even more elusive search for the \\"Sante Fe boy,\\" a model he saw in a 1964 swimwear ad who never ceased to fascinate Joel while at the same time making him feel outside everything that is both masculine and fraternal.<br />Although it is described as dull and ineffectual, Joel actually has an interesting job in the Office of Legislative Analysis.  Joel complains that the job is useless, but it is obvious that he takes delight in the workings on Capitol Hill and his part in it.  When he is called upon to give advice on a Medicare ruling that would exclude benefits to AIDS patients based on prior sexual activity regarding \\"personal responsibility,\\" Joel is faced with a moral dilemma.  He finds the proposition absurd: \\"once you start down that line, there's no end to it: smokers, drinkers...\\"  However, he can see both sides: \\"... to a man in Montana ... there was honestly something disturbing about the spectacle of people partying  pumping themselves up, dropping a few chemicals, getting it on in open defiance of every recommended precaution  and then handing Uncle Sam the bill.\\"  The atmosphere in Washington with its political background and characters, its variety of men  some of whom head straight from work to get drunk at the Hill Club  is telling and cynical. <br />  When he finally locates the one-time model, who now is a grandfather living in New Jersey, he visits him and experiences a moment of defining revelation.  \\"Petras has radiated beauty one day in 1963,\\" Merlis writes, \\"and in 1964 Joel had caught a glimpse of it...by the time Joel saw it, it was already gone.\\"  He begins to realize the purpose of all this: we are on the planet so that \\"like a man watching from light years away the flash of a star that had died a billion years before ...[it] would not pass away unobserved.\\"  Not bad for a non-player like Joel.  Now, if Merlis could just get him to join a gym and floss his teeth...	2003-10-29
US	52995464	R3NSBGE8LC9949	0393050939	925418329	Stiff: The Curious Lives of Human Cadavers	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Have a heart!	While visiting, my brother handed me this book,  \\"You'll like this,\\" he remarked, \\"I read it on the plane, it's about dead bodies.\\"   Since I never told him I couldn't get through another book he gave me \\"How We Die,\\" I guess he thought I was ready for this next step.<br />Even though it often made me queasy, I did like this book.  It treats what we can do with our bodies after death, and especially what happens to bodies which are donated to science.  Just what can be done with a donated body in the name of science makes for adroit nighttime reading.  No details will be disclosed here.  However, readers be forewarned that chapter titles as stylish as \\"A head is a terrible thing to waste\\" can only hint at the bemusing revelations within their pages.<br />The author does an excellent job of treating an upsetting subject with the kind of levity that makes it interesting and understandable.  She never loses focus on the irony of the fact that we have no control over our bodies in the afterlife.  When it comes to the living, and the considerations of donation, she drops the punchlines and describes the options with sensitivity and thoughtfulness. For example, in discussing vital organs, Mary Roach describes the number of people on waiting lists and the shortage of actual donators.  \\"H. has no heart,\\" she says after attending an organ \\"harvest\\" from a donor called simply \\"H.,\\" \\"but heartless is the last thing you'd call her.\\"  Although this is one of the oddest books I've ever read, I found it particularly well researched and written.	2003-10-07
US	52995464	R26SCH4L3VY0WA	015601226X	783241042	As Meat Loves Salt (Harvest Original)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	"...if it doesn't come back, hunt it down and kill it!"	This book was handed to me by a colleague of mine.  We both work in a library and I rely on her to give me books I wouldn't, in the course of things, find on my own.  AS MEAT LOVES SALT is a good example of getting a gem instead of paste.  <br />This is a story about two men who find each other in Stuart England as soldiers in the New Model Army during the violent civil wars of the mid-17th century.  Narrated in the first person by Jacob, the bloody, chaotic and hardy atmosphere of the time is deftly recreated.  The details about food, clothing, war preparations, the use of servants, printing, agriculture, life in London, in the war field and in the country, to name only some of the subjects, are finely drawn and heat this story to the boiling point.   Jacob is essentially a violent, self-serving and evil person, but we are drawn into his heart and mind, and are made to feel compassion for his confusion, his misunderstood love, and his loneliness, as well as admiration for his strength and his intelligence.  Maria McCann has created an overwhelming characterization which, despite his dire actions, I adored. Jacob could well be the author of the twisted sentiment \\"if you love something let it go, if it doesn't come back, hunt it down and kill it!\\" which I once saw written on a t-shirt. To describe the plot would be to destroy the pleasure in reading this book, being a true page-turner, the discovery of what will happen is the point. <br />The story is grand and panoramic, but I began to weary of its length, like attending a meal which is too rich to enjoy in full.  However, just as I was beginning to flag, I was drawn in completely by its bitter, explosive and heartrending conclusion.	2003-09-04
US	52995464	R16KPXSOMBZ6BJ	067102535X	130721196	Last Dance, Last Chance (Ann Rule's Crime Files)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	A bender with the dance macabre	Reading this was part of yet another true crime bender of mine.  The thing about Ann Rule is she's got good stories and a big heart so it gets to us in a way we can digest as informative, educational and entertaining.  <BR> <BR>LAST CHANCE, LAST DANCE is a good example.  The story, if it didn't involve real life victims, is almost absurd.  A very bad doctor - bad in character and medical practices - operates as a cosmetic surgeon by peforming breast enlargements, spot reductions and so on, and eventually murders one of his patients.  He is possessed of such a chaotic personality that everyone involved with him becomes victimized in one way or another.  The most unfortunate is his wife whom he slowly poisons with arsenic.  Incredibly, this woman survives despite terrible pain and the loss of the use of her hands and legs for a lengthy period.  The doctor is caught, confesses and is sentenced.  The wife receives loving and able assistance from police workers, relatives and neighbors.  She recuperates and begins another life with her children.  <BR> <BR>I found this tale informative in its details about medical licenses and practices, entertaining in describing the region, the doctor's office and the lifestyle of these people, and educational in implying that caution must be maintained when facing any medical procedure: those framed medical certificates on the office wall are not decorations and should be checked.  <BR> <BR>As in all Ann Rule's \\"true crime files,\\" the other stories are  macabre and told in a deliberately succinct manner, as though the writer did not want to expand on the hideous details for fear of propoundng such grim matter as a form of entertainment.  She's quite right in her brevity; the suffering of these victims is respected and not exploited.<br />Finally, Ann Rule's momentum is deeply rooted in justice and the people who work hard in pursuit of justice.  It may appear sappy but in fact it's great stuff.	2003-08-01
US	52995464	R3FFADAV0T6ZBC	0743222946	337618584	At Swim, Two Boys	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Like a song	There seems to be some hype -- whether legendary or real I don't know -- around this novel which isn't necessary, that is, that it was written by a hospital porter and took 10 years to complete. Standing on its own, here is an amazing piece of writing which mixes language, Irish local culture, national spirit and trends with a story of two boys and a man, revolution and war, love, courage, community, loss, despair and finally, a kind of eternity all in one. The references to literary and social culture are exquisite.  The gems are innumerable.<br />There's the story and then there's the book.  The story is very moving; the book is astounding.  Amidst a working class community in Kingstown during 1915, two boys, Jim and Doyle, decide to learn to swim out from the Forty Foot (which today is still known to be a notorious meeting place as I was told by a Dublin acquaintance) to the Muglins rock.  Woven in and around this simple plot are a number of intense plots, fueled by strong characters and motivations: Jim's family and his father's grocery store, Doyle's deeply impoverished family, their fathers' battered friendship, the neighboring wealthy Aunt Eva who hosts a nephew recently out of jail for committing the &quot;love that dare not speak it's name,&quot; but, as she proclaims, &quot;it does speak it's name ... it's buggery.&quot;  The themes of two boys falling in love is linked with the oncoming revolution of Easter 1916.  Friendship, loyalty, God, and human frailty are deeply explored themes in this novel.  The language is so creative and euphonious to be beyond amazing, putting the reader into another world, as if the already rare world of 1915 Dublin were not enough.  The impact is a full force onslaught of ideas, sounds and feelings.  This is a very unusual book and a fully realized work of art.<BR> <BR>The only word I can use in summary is lyrical.  It's like certain songs whose lyrics can work magic. It's moving, it's funny, it's maddening and it's deeply satisfying.	2003-07-16
US	52995464	R102RSJGQ5DHSO	0061098736	403232832	Murder In Spokane	Books	3	3	3	N	N	What I read on a True Crime relapse	It can happen to anyone: you're in bookstore right before a longhaul flight and you hanker for something hard and direct. I'm addicted to true crime accounts. I got off them for about a year but I'm back on the juice. This got my eye because of the back cover photo and I remembered that Dominic Dunne in JUSTICE had some interesting things to say about Mark Fuhrman and his investigative work. I ignored the Simpson trial, too trendy for me, so I am not familiar with Fuhrman's notoriety. <br />Unfortunately, it's a familiar story. Someone in Spokane was killing a lot of prostitutes and dumping their bodies in strategic locations to convey his message and incite the investigators. The fact that the victims were transitory prostitutes/drug addicts, and therefore marginal members of the Spokane community, did little to encourage either the investigators or the public in finding the murderer. Mark Fuhrman and a radio host conducted a call-in radio program in which they discussed extensively the killer and the investigation. They did their own investigating and offered their findings to the task force created to stop this killer. At this point the story becomes thick with details about how the task force missed major opportunities and ignored clues. There are further details about the political climate in Spokane and its police force. Fuhrman exposes the fact that the task force had enough information to find the suspect but didn't nab him until after he killed ten more women. This tragic hesitation is due, according to the author, to an over-dependence on technology. The investigators were not using their brains to work the clues. Eventually the killer is found, tried and convicted. <br />Despite the heavygoing details about the Spokane political machine and its consequences, this book provides great information about how an investigation is or should be conducted, what questions need to be asked and what methods are used to draw out the suspect. Mark Fuhrman is driven tofind justice, which the strongest dynamic of this book. His ardour for discovering what has been going on, and his frustration at the inability of the task force, are at times more interesting than the actual crime account. He is, in many ways, the subject of his own book which doesn't detract from it's merits.	2003-05-02
US	52995464	RB5Y4WSJY3BVV	038572179X	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	5	389	433	N	N	Trials of a summer night	This is an engaging story and so finely written that the reading is both effortless and seductive. After I had finished (that is, after drying my eyes and regaining my breath), I was amazed to realize how complex a plot it is considering how smoothly it is told. By far, it is the best book I have read in years.<br />The story starts on a summer day at a large country estate in pre-WWII England. For anyone who delights in the heady mix of intelligence, innocence and youthful imagination, the beginning is like eating rich chocolate: 13 year old Briony has written a play -- the references to Austen, Burney, and family performances within 18th century lore are abundant and perfect -- to be rehearsed and performed by her unwilling and displaced visiting cousins in order to celebrate her brother's return to home with his sophisticated friend. However, reheasals in the playroom for THE TRIALS OF ARABELLA (of course) do not run smoothly: the twins boys do not understand what is expected of them; there's tension between Briony and 15 year old Lola. During the hot summer afternoon, Briony looks out the window to see her older sister Cecilia and Robbie, the cleaning lady's son, having what looks like some kind of menacing (and intimate) interaction in the fountain. The rest of the day's events and mishaps play out without implication until nightfall when a real crime of a sexual nature occurs and Briony's overactive imagination and lack of sophistication lead her to make a accusation which results in genuine tragedy for everyone. Without revealing the entire plot and overwhelming descriptions of war and survival, Briny spends her life paying for this mistake. Near the end of her long life, and having enjoyed without enjoyment a successful writing career, Briony's birthday is celebrated by her relations. This party is held at the old country house, now a renovated hotel, where her grand nieces and nephews perform THE TRIALS OF ARABELLA, a deeply emotional and incomprehensible experience for all (the surviving twin boy, now an old man, breaks down completely, as will nearly every reader). <br />This book goes into my unofficial rank as one of the best reading experiences I've ever had. It tooks me days to shake the feeling that Briony was a part of my life. I was completely transported and I don't think there can be better praise than that.	2003-04-11
US	52995464	R3M20L1LFO8MGD	0156006529	957325974	Where or When  : A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A disaster waiting to happen...	There are an infinite number of love stories and almost all of them tell the same tale.  Certain stories are so compelling that they must be told.  Anita Shreve tells a tale of such hopelessness that I, an intense guy who has missed disaster by a hair's breadth more than once, felt sheer relief that something this intense has never played out in my life (yet, ah!).<br />Charles met Sian when they were 14 years old at a Catholic summer camp in Pennsylvania.  They developed a special relationship beyond a teenager's obsession, an attraction so profound as to have its own momentum, spinning out of the orbit of mere definition.  They separate and 31 years later Charles rediscovers Sian through a book jacket photo.  Despite the responsibilites of a wife and three loveable children, Charles must contact Sian who is also married and raising a daughter.  They exchange letters and, in Pennsylvania where the camp has been converted into a hotel and restaurant, they meet four times during deep winter.  Both lovers are deeply conscious that their behavior is irresponsible and hurtful.  In fact, their story is unrelentingly hopeless.  Inevitably, intense mishaps occur which complete the frisson of doom lurking in every page.  <br />Although it is beautifully written, reading this is a melancholy experience at best and at times is discomfiting, like watching a disaster waiting to happen.   I was fascinated by the flashbacks to summer and the camp.  As teenagers, Charles and Sian are deeply moving.  The final sentence is deft, deflecting all this pain into something simple and timeless.	2003-04-03
US	52995464	R224QIC1K44NAB	0679762051	963527230	My Dark Places	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A MORAL INVENTORY	The places James Ellroy boldly takes us ARE, without exaggeration, dark and scary and kind of banal which is why they're so wierd.  I started to wonder whom he imagined his readers were, given that his language and approach are startling and bone-crunching, but I don't think he has an imagined audience.  If there is any at all, it's himself.  He's writing for himself to get it out of his head and it's a bold expurgation.<br />The redhead is James Ellroy's mother who was murdered on a dark road outside an El Monte high school in 1958 when the author was 10 and the victim was 42 years old.  Confused and disoriented as only a 10 year old from a raging broken home can be, Ellroy grows up - or at least advances in years since real maturity comes later - perversely relieved to be rid of his mother and develops major addiction problems and asocial behavior.  In recovery terms, much of the book seems to serve as Ellroy's fourth step (a moral inventory of oneself) and is both oddly delicious and repellant.  The real punch comes when Ellroy is determined to find his mother's killer, the so-called Swarthy Man, but in fact begins to discover who that redhead is and how she found herself on a dark road in El Monte after a Saturday night of bar-hopping.<br />No criticism or re-interpretations can be proffered.  The guy lost his mother to an unknown murderer.  Who can fully understand what that means?	2003-04-02
US	52995464	R5EOR1ND9P5QE	B000066TQ7	383388943	True Enough	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Families in a country village 2002	In terms of plot structure, it seems not much has changed for Stephen McCauley since Jane Austen came out with that simple line about \\"two or three families in a country village.\\"  Only now the village is global and the two or three families are extended and include one or two gay marriages as well.  <BR> <BR>Because of the author's intense dynamism and his insightful wit (I want to say one-liners because there are some brilliant passages) the plot is almost incidental: Desmond leaves his lover Russell to teach a course in Boston and meets Jane Cody who has become re-involved with her ex-husband while trying to understand where her life and those of her husband's and son's meet in harmony.  There are a series of effective sub-plots: Russell's job and his state-of-the-art lesbian co-worker; a jaded widow writer whose success rests on a book entitled DEAD HUSBAND; Jane's be-wigged and judgemental mother-in-law; Jane's extraordinarily erudite six year old son; and a mysterious 60s female vocalist about whom Desmond is writing a biography.  <BR> <BR>I don't make the comparison to Jane Austen too glibly: just as Emma, Catherine and Elizabeth do, these modern characters discover what it means to love and learn better how to love, they become aware of their own mistakes and weaknesses while suffering the pain of recognizing their errors and amending the harm done.  McCauley has his characters attend the most engaging parties during which they discover and reveal themselves with a punch, very much like Austen's gatherings where characters such as Darcy, Wickham and Henry Crawford display themselves perhaps more than they intended.  Within the very serious subjects of love and self-awareness, the humor is astute and hilarious.<BR> <BR>All this nonsense aside, McCauley's book is a pleasure to read, and far better than most of the current crop.	2003-02-05
US	52995464	R28HDMJSUO6OPZ	0375508880	264880089	Making Things Better: A Novel	Books	5	32	33	N	N	We are all of us human	Reading a novel by Anita Brookner is as intense an experience as I've ever had. I buy each one as soon as it comes out and settle in to read it with a sense of adventure. Brookner is a firm narrator and an excellent dramatist. Despite this story of impending doom, there are sections full of lyricism, lightness and delight. There is much talk of Nyon, a small town outside of Geneva and, in fact, I finished this book after riding my bike on the hills above Nyon, looking down over what Brookner describes as the \\"penumbra\\" of lac Lman. <br />This is the story of an elderly London man, Julius Herz, who is compelled by loneliness and circumstance to reflect on the finality of his remaining days. His body betrays and goads him incessantly: he suffers light but debilitating dizzy spells and loss of breath; he delights in repose on a bench in the park, appreciating the sun and the air as a man might who knows his days are numbered; he is physically attracted to his young female neighbor. Having spent his life taking care of his parents and brother, he is continually disturbed by the memory of having had his youthful proposal of marriage rejected by his cousin: a proposal made many years earlier at the Beau-Rivage Hotel in Nyon where the lady resided - in characteristic Brookner fashion - with her mother in a style so recherch that a dramatic mishap and heartache are inevitable. Now, under the duress of old age and near-infirment, she has reconsidered and contacted him. Julius prepares himself and his cousin for their new life through a series of intense and astounding letters. \\"The next big thing\\" takes over. The British edition is entitled THE NEXT BIG THING. I have wondered what the motivation is to change the American edition to MAKING THINGS BETTER. <br />The writing is, as always, as sharp as a surgical knife. The plot, which spans generations and customs, encompasses a tight realm of parents, siblings, neighbors, ex-wives, and colleagues inhabiting lives influencedby immigration, insanity, wasted talent, and sexual attraction. The narrative is unnerving and exciting.<br />I am in awe of this writer. I sometimes see her at the supermarket in London, across from me in the checkout line. At these times, I try to forget that she is also a renowned art historian and am amazed that readers have been given so much by someone so obviously human and charming, that even though our worlds are far apart, they can meet in a such a simple and human way.	2003-01-13
US	52995464	R3U6GRX82AK7FJ	0375502254	598809884	On Green Dolphin Street: A Novel	Books	3	2	2	N	N	DRINKING AND SMOKING AND FALLING IN LOVE	This is the first book by Sebastian Faulks I've read but from what I'm told his others are better.  I am relieved to hear that because I wasn't enchanted by this uneven tale.  The story is moving but the style occasionally limps along.<br />In summary, Charlie is a British diplomat living in the USA with his wife Mary and their two children.  They enjoy a rather high life in Washington characterized by parties and an envious lifestyle.  Charlie is an alcoholic plagued by internal demons.  It seems we are meant to believe that Charlie's drinking is justified because of his intelligent perceptions but most readers will see that he suffers from &quot;terminal uniqueness&quot; and uses his intelligence as a means of talking himself out of staying sober.  Mary meets Frank, a bohemian reporter, and engages in a love affair.  The affair runs its course. Mary's family needs her and so it ends.  <br />One of the biggest obstacles to finding this an original reading experience is the exploitation of common 60s, Eisenhower and Kennedy mythology.  Both amusingly and dully, these characters do little else but drink and smoke.  I doubt there is one exchange between the principal characters which isn't fueled by alcohol, or during the aftermath of a rampant drunken spree.    Between the lines, it's the story of how alcohol can affect the life of anyone within the radius of an alcoholic.<br />Nevertheless, certain passages and descriptions are deeply moving and  original.  Mary's emotional dilemma is tangible and upsetting and the final separation between the two lovers is excruciating.   The family ties between Mary and her parents and children are beautifully drawn.   It's certainly worth reading if you're trapped inside with nothing to do on a rainy Sunday evening.	2002-11-18
US	52995464	R2EYF81K4OJJRR	1400045045	735398183	The Blood Doctor: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	'SBLOOD!	Barbara Vine's novels never fail to be engaging and unnerving.  I read this as fast as I could, impelled to flee the subject of blood and compelled to discover where it was all leading.  <br />The story is not simple: an heriditary peer, Martin Nanther, is writing the biography of his great great grandfather, an heralded doctor to Queen Victoria who specialized in hemophilia.  At the time of his most profound research, Martin is also being ousted from his peerage as the House of Commons is changing and hereditary peers are being made redundant, as it were.  At the same time his younger second wife, desperate to reproduce, undergoes a series of miscarriages.  During his research, he discovers that his great great grandfather masterminded his marriage to accommodate his obsessive medical research and, as a result, suffered intense remorse and grief.  <br />Barbara Vine's ability to weave an intricate, detailed plot involving intense and three-dimensional characters is what elevates this story.  Any reader will figure out what exactly has been masterminded by the blood doctor but getting there is the point of the story.  The details of Parliamentary protocol and proceedings, the Victorian relationships set against contemporary ones, the efforts to procreate, the disorienting relationships between the begetters and the begotten all serve to keep this novel outside the standard realm of mystery writing.  It is, in fact, beyond genre.	2002-11-15
US	52995464	R2J8AX88126KFL	0375412530	493062492	Back When We Were Grownups	Books	5	6	8	N	N	What I read in the Swiss summer rain	I sometimes wish that Anne Tyler's novels were sold with a box of tissue to make light of the fact that I'm never dry-eyed when I read one. What is it that is so touching? The writing seems effortless: simply composed, characterized by short easy sentences - no \\"big\\" words - and manageable paragraphs.  Yet this simplicity belies a deeply beating and even complicated heart.  Rebecca Holmes Davitch in BACK WHEN WE WERE GROWNUPS is on the surface one of the most clear-cut people imaginable and certainly all the members of her large inherited family see her just like this.  Beneath the fixed party-giving smile (one of the great ironies of this story is that this nearly bitter and self-effacing person is a professional party-giver) and the convincing jollity is a woman troubled by emptiness and grief.  Tyler works the trick like a charm: surrounding Rebecca, and serving to remind both her and the reader, is life on life's terms, big and small, predictable and unexpected, battering and comforting.<br />She tells a simple story: Rebecca Davitch, the widowed mother and appointed matriarch of a large extended family, has three grown-up stepdaughters and one grown-up daughter.  Almost every adult in this novel is divorced, widowed or in a marriage qualified by compromise and diversity: one daughter is a serial divorcee currently married to a guy who \\"hailed from someplace Arab,\\" and another is contentedly married to an acknowledged gay man.  Rebecca is at crossroads and questions her life's path.  Under the stress of this confusion and close to depression, she looks up her jilted fiance and discovers how she and her values have grown and changed, a discovery that is replete with pain and joy,  told by Tyler through the disarming detail of her daily life and interactions.  <br />Frankly, I was moved to tears through the whole story from the moment Rebecca exclaims to herself \\"oh, didn't a river rest your eyes!\\" to her final conclusion that \\"she really had been having a wonderful time.\\"  This is a near perfect story about celebrating people whom one would have never chosen to accompany during this mortal coil, but whose qualities gleam like jewels if considered in the right light.  The most extraordinary character, amidst a cast of detailed and extraordinary characters, is Rebecca's soon-to-be-100-year-old uncle-in-law Poppy whose flagging memories and self-centered cheerfulness both grate on and lull Rebecca's nerves. Tyler uses details of American life to best advantage and the novel is full of references to such wonders as \\"P B and J\\" (peanut-butter and jelly), waffles soaked with syrup, Froot Loop Bark candy, and a house called the Open Arms.	2002-07-17
US	52995464	R3JLDCWVDDAM1B	0452283108	693621557	Bitch Goddess	Books	2	2	3	N	N	"We're having a heat wave, a tropical heat wave..."	There's been a heat wave of tropical proportions in my town and it's been tough just stringing two thoughts together, which is probably why the \\"summer reading\\" genre has been so-called. I doubt if Rodi falls into this catagory but during overheated times like these, I've reached for a Rodi book to kickstart the cure by laughter and have never been disappointed by the crazy, wild, fastpaced and delightful worlds he creates. He says things other people only think and tell themselves to surpress. His characters are bigger than life, even though they're disguised as the people next door. His stories are usually adorable and effective and the laugh-a-page quota has always exceeded expectations. Even his titles are remarkable. Who can forget titles like FAG HAG, DRAG QUEEN, CLOSET CASE or KEPT BOY?<br />Alas and alack, not so with BITCH GODDESS. I don't know what happened, but this pill is a placebo and doesn't work the cooldown cure. Rodi strings together a series of interviews, emails, memos, answering machine messages, scripts, newspaper and magazine articles to tell the story of Viola Chute, cult movie actress turned recent TV star ( la Joan Collins, it looks like) and her ghost writer. It's difficult to tell whether we are meant to admire Viola or dispise her but certainly just about everybody in the book can't stand her. As depicted by Rodi she's not all that bad. It's the things that people say about her that are awful and perhaps that's the point. Rodi reaches a little too far for shock value and there are some not-so-funny or effective references using scatological humor that miss the mark. Rodi seemed to have found his pace near the end of the book and I got a couple of laughs-a-page but not enough to justify reading this. I hate to slam a book but this one's a clunker. Heigh-ho or sigh: take your pick.	2002-07-09
US	52995464	R2K69ZC8XWZKVL	0140021086	867016160	Girl with Green Eyes	Books	4	20	20	N	N	"Guinness is good for you" in lipstick red	The cover of this edition is curious and belies the real subject of this book. It's hot pink background and depiction of lipstick, perfume bottle and a sealed letter, promise a sweet romantic story for girls on the go. I picked this book up because of the author's notoriety and because I am currently interested in literature about Ireland.<br />Perhaps this book is out of date and perhaps since the 60s it has been upstaged by current issues and stories. I am told that when it was published it was banned from Ireland. The subject matter remains serious and, although not shocking in the strictly moral sense, it is emotionally unnerving. The brutal loss of innocence is never easy to witness and this book proves this.<br />This is the story of Caithleen, a country girl of 22 who is working in Dublin in a grocery shop. She meets an older married-but-separated man and becomes smitten. She eventually moves in with him in his isolated house outside the city whereupon they are both menaced by her father and his peers for living in sin. Other constraints spell doom for this couple. Caithleen is neither sophisticated enough for Eugene's social milieu nor wily enough to compensate her lack of cleverness through other charms. Eventually she conspires to leave him in the naive belief that he will follow her. He doesn't follow and thus her broken heart is doubly battered. That pithy old saw, \\"marry in haste, repent at your leisure\\" seems to apply here, in a direct way for Eugene, and in bitter irony for Caithleen.<br />Edna O'Brien is an adept storyteller and this piece moves relentlessly towards its bitter end without a single sidetracked moment. She is clever enough to refrain from comment on Eugene's callous nature and his overriding irresponsibility and, through his actions, shows that he is his own unwitting victim. Caithleen's hope, bafflement, disillusion and raw pain are all at the fore of this tale. To my mind, given that loss of innocence is not yet out-of-date, this book is as current today as it was in the early 60s.<br />The story is embedded with details of Dublin: Clery's department store, O'Connell Street, The Liffey, the Customs House, Molesworth Street, the Shelbourne Hotel and an ashtray with \\"Guinness is good for you\\" written on it in red are among the cited Dublin icons which surround these characters.	2002-05-02
US	52995464	R2479C3N0WINHA	0618197303	157710736	In the Forest: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	What I read after climbing the Wicklow hills	Edna O'Brien, with this novel and \\"Girl with the Green Eyes,\\" became part of my first trip to Dublin. Despite my motives for perusing charming Irish stories, this novel is anything but lightweight and packs a sobering and disturbing emotional wallop.<br />This is the story of Mich, demented young man ripe for murder. Ms. O'Brien traces his emotional development and dementia through a precise and evocative outline of his mother's death, the constant abuse from other children and adults at home and later in various institutions, including sexual abuse by a priest as well as physical abuse by guards. By the time he is let out of these institutions he claims that his head \\"isn't right\\" and is already a proven criminal. Ms. O'Brien makes it clear that although he is dangerous, he suffers intense emotional turmoil.<BR> <BR>This is also a story of a West Ireland country community and several new residents such as a young woman named Eily and her three year old son Maddie. When Mich is let out of prison and returns to the village he stalks Eily and eventually abducts her and her son. The entire community is terrified of Mich but are slow to react and are, as a result, responsible in part for the tragedies which occur. Finally, after the crimes have been committed, panic sets in and Mich is hunted down both by civilians and law enforcers with avidity. This thirst for justice continues throughout his capture and interrogations. Every recounted moment is agonizing and painful from the point of view of both the criminal and the lawmen. Mich is convicted and descends further into his own mental hell. Despite the occasional use of harmless Irish colloquialisms and customs, this story is deeply upsetting.<br />I like to avoid making conscious references to concrete symbolism in literature but in this case the notion of the forest in the title can't be avoided. It is clear that we are taken into both a physical forest and the \\"forest\\" of Mich's mind. If handled clumsily this couldbecome tedious but in this story it's both atmospheric and necessary. In the end, a little boy loses himself in these same woods, in the same place where hell was enacted. He sleeps peacefully in the pine needles. \\"Magic,\\" Edna O'Brien tells us \\"follows only the few.\\"	2002-04-17
US	52995464	R30JD15ZYHIPNT	0685032647	10423888	Ten Rillington Place	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Murder in a Notting Hill dollhouse	This is a story of two men, Mr. Kennedy tells us at the outset, one who loses his wife and baby to murder, is falsely accused and put to death and the other, a vicious, pathetic, seedy serial killer. The labyrinths of the story are thus: Mr. Evans, his wife and baby rent rooms in a doll-sized house in Notting Hill. In this house, on the ground floor are Mr. Christie and his wife. An elderly man also resides here but he is away. Before the bodies of Mrs. Evans and her baby are discovered in the wash house, Mr. Evans turns himself into the police and, although illiterate and possessing the mentality of a 10 year old, confesses twice to the murders. Later he retracts his confession and claims that Mr. Christie committed the murders and that he confessed only to protect Mr. Christie. He explains that Mr. Christie convinced Mr. Evans and his wife that he was an abortionist, that (against his wishes) his wife agreed to undergo Mr. Christie's treatment. Mr. Evans claims to arrive home to find his wife dead but his baby alive. After a couple of days, Mr. Christie tells Mr. Evans that he sent the baby to a couple in East Acton and advises him to flee London. Mr. Evans is tried, found guilty and hanged to death. Several years later, six women's bodies, including that of Mrs. Christie, are discovered at 10 Rillington Place. It becomes obvious that Mr. Evans was telling the truth and was innocent of the murders of his wife and baby. He was wrongfully put to death. His innocence has never been reinstated by the British court.<br /><br />Mr. Kennedy makes it clear that the crimes are not the only issue here. The major issue is the miscarriage of justice and the further injustice that this mistake has never been officially acknowledged by the British authorities. Poor Mr. Evans, his mother and sisters who lived nearby.<br />The account of the murders of Beryl Evans and baby Geraldine is thoroughly presented.  There is too much consideration for the feelings of the police and judge. Ultimately, the question of how these lawmen could have ignored certain evidence, and tampered with the existing evidence, becomes paramount. In this book, the authorities, even more than Mr. Christie, become the guilty party. Mr. Kennedy does a respectable job of finding excuses for them (as indeed they seem to have found for themselves) in the basic fact that Mr. Evans, a chronic liar and emotionally confused, confessed twice to the crimes but the tampering of evidence makes lame any justification for this misjustice. It is maddening and incomprehensible and upstages Mr. Christie, whose story is another book in itself, totally.<br /><br />It is no small point that the inside cover of this book is a map of Notting Hill in the 1950s. The neighborhood where Mr. Christie, the Evans's, Mr. Evans's mother and sisters lived, as well as where Christie's other victims frequented, seems to play a part in understanding the emotional pitch of these people and their lives, presenting a banal but murky background to the horrors that took place.<br /><br />This is an excellent true crime account. It fascinates and enrages the reader and serves to clear the name of an innocent man who could hardly have understood what was happening to him. The fact that one wonders about the souls of these unfortunate people, victims, criminal and lawmen, is the greatest achievement of this book.ltimately, the question of how these lawmen could have ignored certain evidence, and tampered with the existing evidence, becomes paramount. In this book, the authorities, even more than Mr. Christie, become the guilty party. Mr. Kennedy does a respectable job of finding excuses for them (as indeed they seem to have found for themselves) in the basic fact that Mr. Evans, a chronic liar and emotionally confused, confessed twice to the crimes but the tampering of evidence makes lame any justification for this misjustice. It is maddening and incomprehensible and upstages Mr. Christie, whose story is another book in itself, totally.<BR> <BR>It is no small point that the inside cover of this book is a map of Notting Hill in the 1950s. The neighborhood where Mr. Christie, the Evans's, Mr. Evans's mother and sisters lived, as well as where Christie's other victims frequented, seems to play a part in understanding the emotional pitch of these people and their lives, presenting a banal but murky background to the horrors that took place. <BR> <BR>This is an excellent true crime account. It fascinates and enrages the reader and serves to clear the name of an innocent man who could hardly have understood what was happening to him. The fact that one wonders about the souls of these unfortunate people, victims, criminal and lawmen, is the greatest achievement of this book.	2002-03-05
US	52995464	R1OTUFEYK9GOND	0345430557	241260648	A Season in Purgatory	Books	3	4	9	N	N	What I read while it snowed outside	Mr. Dunne is an oddly likeable writer. His authorial voice is friendly, reassuring, confident and confidential. I picked up this book out of curiosity, after reading JUSTICE in which Dominick Dunne goes over the Martha Moxley murder.<br />The story is, for the most part, narrated in the first person by Harrison Burns, in 1972 and 1993, although there is a middle section called \\"1989 New York,\\" which is pointedly written in the third person. Harrison is a poor school chum of Constant Bradley the rich, spoiled son of Gerald Bradley a ruthless moneymaker and partriach of a large ostentatiously Catholic family, mothered by Grace, an ostenstatiously devout religious maniac obsessed with appearances and determined to become a papal countess (in fact, she is Dunne's most engaging character, along with Bridey the cook). It's all obviously based on Kennedy mythology and takes a tabloid-level view of their legendary behaviour. The murder of the high school girl is dutifully enunciated to resemble the Martha Moxley case with a smidgeon of red herring thrown in to make it fiction.<br />There is nothing demanding about this book, nor is there anything surprising. It's an entertaining read in the lightest sense, like watching a made-for-TV movie after a hard day's work. Reading this was both relaxing and tedious. The main interest was in spotting where Dunne shamelessly imitates life such as when the defense attorney, based directly on the Menendez Brothers trial, faces the TV cameras with her raised middle-finger shouting, \\"This what you want?\\" or in weaving into the plot a case similar to that of Wayne Lonergan the devastatingly handsome (how easily one falls into this flat and florid style) bisexual social climber who murdered his socialite wife. (Both stories are reported in JUSTICE so that's how I know they're lifted and proves that Mr. Dunne is obsessed with the proceedings of justice, an admirable quality in itself.) That friendly and confidential voice of Mr. Dunne's getsthere in the end and I was moved by the story of the victim's mother and that the murder of her daughter was never revenged. There's no denying that Mr. Dunne has his heart and intentions in the right place.<br />Perhaps my three-star opinion is based on my own moodiness since recently my dog had to be put to sleep and I finished this book while it was snowing outside. In this circumspect mood, I sprawled on the couch and read this while watching the television summary of the Australian tennis tournament at the same time, and with the same lack of personal interest since I don't much care for tennis. The book has a nice cover, showing a summery house with a tennis court. Enough said.	2002-01-16
US	52995464	R2NPWTHRYY8EOD	0609608738	121244280	Justice: Crimes, Trials, and Punishments	Books	4	5	7	N	N	What I read when dusk fell in Malaysia	This book got me through Christmas in Malaysia on a hiking trip where I stayed in the mountains in a hotel resembling an English country cottage which manages to make the visitor feel claustrophobic.  My brother in Singapore handed JUSTICE to me with the words &quot;This is awful. Who cares about OJ anymore and he's wrong about the Safra case.&quot;  He concluded by recommending I use the pages for toilet paper in the jungle, the kind of suggestion one brother will invariably make to another, to the amusement of each.   Fortunately, I didn't find it awful.  Even though I had read a number of these subjects in Vanity Fair, I was mesmorized once again by Dominick Dunne's unique perspective.  He is both a shameless gossipmonger and a crime reporter of the highest integrity.  He is obsessed in equal measure with justice and glamour.  <br />I admit to having dreaded the chapters on the OJ case because of its notoriety and injustice of the final verdict.  However, given the incomprehensible mess created during the trial, Mr. Dunne actually make some sense out of the senseless and propounds a level of social morality which made me feel outraged for the victims and their families,  but also satisfied that the case has been regarded as clearly unjust and unquestionably misjudged.  This is Mr. Dunne's greatest achievement, that he keeps reason at the fore and dismisses the madness for what it is.  This clarity continues through all the cases.  There is no boredom factor here: every story is both peculiar and bizarrely entertaining or, taking it one step further by paraphasing Miss Jean Brodie (or Murial Spark if you must), &quot;for those of us who like that sort of thing, this is the sort of thing we like.&quot;<br />Mr. Dunne writes in a style which lends irony, bitterness and clarity to cases full of red herring and slander among the so-called rich and famous.   I can think of no other crime reporter quite like him.  He reflects a sense of social interaction and high-minded justice with an intensely alluring and entertaining voice.	2002-01-07
US	52995464	RD36N186PC0M7	0517204770	66355465	Peyton Place and Return to Peyton Place (Modern Classics)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Staying in with the dog	This had got to be the grandmother of &quot;trashy&quot; paperback bestsellers. PEYTON PLACE has a strong mix of heart and scandal, stereotypes and solid wisdom. Everyone to whom I mentioned this book remarked, &quot;oh, I read that when I was a teenager, for the parts with the sex in it.&quot; There's some of that, but what surprised me was how scary it is, in particular, involving the drunken stepfather's repeated raping of his stepdaughter, her abortion and his murder. Juxtaposed against this small town, its people and their problems, is the teenage Allison's quest for her own self-realization as a fatherless child and blooming writer which serves as a nice counterpoint to the whole creaky sonata and gives relief to the intense isolation and myopia of this New England town.<br />The title alone is synonymous with small-town mentality and scandal. Even though I've never seen the movie nor the TV series I've known Peyton Place all my life, it's such a part of our American folklore. I found a hardcover copy of the original British edition of PEYTON PLACE at a flea market (or march aux puces, to use the local term) in Geneva, Switzerland, stamped, remarkably enough, with a bookseller's address in New Delhi so evidently this very American tale has literally travelled the world. This is a fine way to pass a rainy, cold Friday night when you don't have a date and are recharging your batteries.	2001-11-23
US	52995464	R4OF9PD26BNI3	097009731X	789350261	Over the Edge:  Death in Grand Canyon	Books	5	47	49	N	N	Deadly Natural Beauty	I was at the Grand Canyon North Rim a few weeks ago.  Looking for information at the visitor's office, I was cautioned that a hike into the canyon is extremely dangerous and difficult. This was made clear both in the literature and by the person behind the desk.  I was skeptical - I mean how tough can hiking be - and wondered if these cautions were dramatic.  The night before I was to hike down, I wandered into the gift shop and flipped through this book.  Before I could say &quot;help!&quot; I was laying down bucks to take it back to my cabin for a nightly reading experience which ran from incredulity to horror to fear for my own safety.  Because of this book, I cautioned my hiking buddy not to wander off the trail, not to pretend to be falling and to avoid the temptation to urinate over the edge of a cliff (sorry ladies, it's a guy thing, and it's gotten a number of us killed).   He later admitted that he was, in fact, tempted to do all these things which proves how naturally we invite accidents.  Needlesstosay, after hearing about the intense heat and cases of dehydration we packed lots more water.  Despite the  heat headaches and blisters at the end of the day, it was a fantastic hike that ended with an awesome respect for nature.<br />This book breaks through the assumption that a national park can be visited with the same indifference to safety as an amusement or theme park.  It is written in a surprising straight-forward manner with direct comments on safety.  There are discussions about how some deaths could have been avoided, as well as intelligent and professional assessments regarding events surrounding obscure or unwitnessed accidents.  Accidents of all manner are organized and discussed: on the rim of the Grand Canyon (picture-taking on the rim can become a nearly fatal activity!), by environmental conditions, by flash floods, on the Colorado river, by aviation, suicide and freak accidents.  Each chapter is followed by a list of victims and  brief circumstances surrounding their deaths.<br />There's a lot of history here and several tales of prospectors and frontier adventurers.  Some of the stories of more recent accidents are deeply disturbing and demonstrate how much people have suffered.  This book serves not only as chronicle of deaths in the Grand Canyon but also as a guide to those who visit and appreciate the enormous power of the place.	2001-10-24
US	52995464	R3BA6VDHAV1H28	097009731X	789350261	Over the Edge:  Death in Grand Canyon	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Say &quot;cheese&quot; but DON'T step backwards!	I was at the Grand Canyon North Rim a few weeks ago.  Looking for information at the visitor's office, I was cautioned that a hike into the canyon is extremely dangerous and difficult. This was made clear both in the literature and by the person behind the desk.  I was skeptical - I mean how tough can hiking be - and wondered if these cautions were dramatic.  The night before I was to hike down, I wandered into the gift shop and flipped through this book.  Before I could say &quot;help!&quot; I was laying down bucks to take it back to my cabin for a nightly reading experience which ran from incredulity to horror to fear for my own safety.  Because of this book, I cautioned my hiking buddy not to horse around on the trail or wander off, not to pretend to be falling and to avoid the temptation to urinate over the edge of a cliff (sorry ladies, it's a guy thing, and it's gotten a number of us killed).   He later admitted that he was, in fact, tempted to do all these things which proves how naturally we invite accidents.  Needlesstosay, after hearing about the intense heat and cases of dehydration we packed lots more water.  Despite the  heat headaches and blisters at the end of the day, it was a fantastic hike that ended with an awesome respect for nature.<br />This book breaks through the assumption that a national park can be visited with the same indifference to safety as an amusement or theme park.  It is written in a surprising straight-forward manner with direct comments on safety.  There are discussions about how some deaths could have been avoided, as well as intelligent and professional assessments regarding events surrounding obscure or unwitnessed accidents.  Accidents of all manner are organized and discussed: on the rim of the Grand Canyon (picture-taking on the rim can become a nearly fatal activity!), by environmental conditions, by flash floods, on the Colorado river, by aviation, suicide and freak accidents.  Each chapter is followed by a list of victims and  brief circumstances surrounding their deaths.<br />There's a lot of history here and several tales of prospectors and frontier adventurers.  Some of the stories of more recent accidents are deeply disturbing and demonstrate how much people have suffered.  This book serves not only as chronicle of deaths in the Grand Canyon but also as a guide to those who visit and appreciate the enormous power of the place.	2001-10-18
US	52995464	R1KLT1MAPM2AGQ	0316776963	491689172	Me Talk Pretty One Day	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The Prime Of Mr. David Sedaris!	I don't care one whit for any intellectual or comparative examination of the content of this book, all I know is that I was laughing and shaking my head at the joy and discovery of what he can say and how he says it. Amazingly, he does it out of nothing: his subjects include elementary school, living in New York, family (whose banality he venerates), bad jobs, learning French, all commonplace but he re-visits them from a wonderfully skewed perspective and makes everything we've got in common seem funny, fantastic and sometimes deeply touching. <br />The person who can write a book that makes the reader laugh out loud and feel that he/she has lived, or could have lived, the same experience is very special indeed. David Sedaris is a real star. Just like certain stage actors in their prime, his charisma and talent draw the participant into feeling a deep relationship with him. I finished this book feeling a lot of humanity and other corny stuff too simple and sweet to spoil by giving them names.	2001-08-02
US	52995464	R3K8VKXYLFT4K6	0671708163	903283423	The Folks That Live on the Hill	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Hazards and haplessness in a London neighborhood	I picked up this novel with a preconceived notion about what I would find. After all, I had read the maverick son's works and assumed that their dark, contemporary atmosphere was a reaction to the father's stalwart British character. Consequently, just from the title alone, I gleaned an image of the happy goings-on of a small, gregarious community who might meet for tea and air their church-oriented disagreements at the local garden sale, tra la, tra la. NO WAY. <br />The writing is immediately engaging, especially the dialog which moves fasts and twists sharply. Nothing is what it seems. No one is content. Everyone is getting on with their daily business while covering a deeply discordant nature. The most dramatic example of this desolate irony is when the three very adult children take a taxi to lunch with their aged mother still living nearby where they grew up. It's an awful afternoon: no wants to be there, they don't enjoy each other's company; everyone participates in the charade of a happy family gathering. The author's voice is terribly, that is, fiercely, strong in his cynical and ironic commentary on these people. It is sometimes droll but never funny. In sum, the major characters are trapped in and dependent upon the machinations of their humdrum, small everyday lives. It's delightful writing in a very tough, nearly hideous story. There are wonderful and often scathing depictions: the widow Clare and the cumbersome dog left behind by her late husband, the desperate alcoholic Fiona, the bit-on-the-side Maureen and, most memorably, the more-English-than-the-English Pakistani shopkeepers. Just when I thought the whole things was going to end disastrously, these people are all gathered in the neighborhood pub (but of course, where else?) and accept or resolve their differences while Amis's authorial voice becomes almost paternal and loving. It worked for me: I heartily enjoyed this story with its fussy weave of banal hazards and haplessness, and its finely tuned emotional climax when Harry decides not to accept a promising job in the USA because he and his sister Clare, quite simply, need each other.	2001-07-27
US	52995464	R20R444EY975JG	0151005214	247759837	The Peppered Moth	Books	4	15	15	N	N	The ash of an apologia	At the back of the book Margaret Drabble gives her apologia for writing THE PEPPERED MOTH. She explains that while writing it she thought mostly of her mother and in what ways the character of Bessie is and is not like her. This is interesting in the same way that gossip is interesting: it's unnecessary but somehow vital.<br />Apart from the apologia, the novel stands on its own. The story concentrates on a Yorkshire community which is presently being traced back to its origins. All kinds of contemporary images are placed against antique ones: DNA samples, a lecture on heredity, environmentalists, journalists, and computer specialists lie in answer to the ash of a turn-of-the-century mining town, Cambridge, poverty, new and inherited wealth and prickly class differences. An environmentalist discovers an ancient corpse believed to be the oldest thread of this community. Through several generations the lives, loves and relations of four women are traced. The story may wander and the reader may be in danger of getting lost in the details but it never flags. Perhaps too many sociological issues are brought into play but the attempt to link the past to the present, and the present to the past, keeps this novel moving.	2001-07-20
US	52995464	RGVAM0L0YWUHA	0452282152	858318999	Girl with a Pearl Earring: A Novel	Books	3	3	3	N	N	&quot;A-TISKET, A-TASKET...&quot;	If you like the Vermeer's paintings (and who doesn't appreciate their surprising details?) then you will enjoy this story about the daughter of a tile painter reduced to being hired out as a maid to Vermeer and his family. The juxtaposition of Vermeer's trained and educated taste to Griet's natural ability to distinguish imagery is dynamic, as is Griet's education, both sentimental and artistic. In the Vermeer household the creative process occurs symbolically and physically above - Griet does the grinding of the colours in her attic room - while the life of the family, in evidence largely through their spying, manipulations and petty jealousies, occurs below. These family caricatures menace our heroine indiscriminately, in order to serve a plot that depends on maintaining secrecy, by acting as a family of spies that thwart her in the mission to stealthly help Vermeer in preparing his paints and scenes. With the exception of the maid, the characters in this book do not grow, change or discover each other and the lack of comprehension between the members of the household is tiring. The plot turns on the fact that Vermeer has painted the maid wearing his wife's pearl earrings. The question of how the maid managed to wear the pearl earrings for the painting becomes paramount. When assembled as a family, everyone is silent in front of Vermeer's distraught wife, even though the painter and his mother-in-law are culpable for convincing the maid to pose and wear the earrings. Some kind of confrontation between these related people would have been more evocative and less irritating. There are some grating anachonisms: it is absurd to hear Griet say to her boyfriend that at 18 or even 17 years of age she is too young to marry (in 17th century Holland where life expectancy must have been less than half of what it is today!). The community setting with its active and gossipy markets gives the story its drive but it never goes much further than that of a girl continually trapped and menaced from all sides such as in a fable.	2001-07-12
US	52995464	R2R1SWUSJZBRAT	1569801576	225119948	Sharon Tate and the Manson Murders	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Innocent Hours	It is impossible not to feel a strong reaction to this crime: horror, confusion and repulsion are among the reactions I have had since 1969 when as a kid I read about it in the newspaper. This book does an outstanding job of compiling all the available information into a cohesive account of what happened the weekend of 8 August 1969 and, more importantly, introducing the victims as people we can understand, finally removing them from tabloid caricatures. The reporting is thorough: there are follow-ups on the murderers, victims' families, and parole hearings. The author, refreshingly, does not equivocate regarding how he feels about justice for the victims or the characters of the convicted. He is justifiably effusive in his praise of members of the victims' families and their efforts to help others.<br />Above all, this is a touching and saddening tribute to Sharon Tate herself and introduces her as she must have really been. Her life wasn't a bed of roses; the whole concept of being a &quot;movie star&quot; is a myth. Instead we learn that Sharon was a vibrant, inquisitive, working woman who was coping as best she could with her youthful life while awaiting the birth of her first son.<br />There is a description of Abigal Folger taking herself to bed with a book. When one of the murderers passed her room she looked up, smiled and waved from her bed. Minutes later she would be slaughtered. The image and irony of this woman smiling and waving leave me shaken. There are things that once known can never be unknown. Aware of what happened on this August weekend in 1969, it is impossible to feel anything but apprehension during even the most innocent hours of the day.	2001-07-04
US	52995464	R1QG54TTCO4AGW	0451166256	474573372	The Boston Strangler	Books	5	22	22	N	Y	Let's have a go at those files!	I always wanted to know more about the Boston Strangler, having read about him in other true crime accounts, but never getting the full picture.  This book gives a frightening and touching account of Boston in the 60s and the Strangler's unwitting victims.  Frank handles brilliantly the chaotic investigation and  numerous (but mesmerizing) deadend leads; his reporting of the case and its frustrations is near perfect.  By the time I got to DeSalvo's confessions (and the fact that the case has never been brought to trial!) I wanted to roll up my sleeves and spend an all-nighter going through the files to check facts.  Not since reading about Jack the Ripper have I been so engaged by an unsolved crime.	2001-06-08
US	52995464	R43W4X8AJP95Y	0375400052	187052723	The Married Man	Books	5	2	4	N	N	&quot;PARIS IS A LONELY TOWN&quot;	To paraphrase Jane Austen, it is a truth universally acknowledged that Edmund White is the writer of our age, or at least one of the strongest among some tough contenders.  In THE MARRIED MAN he proves that he has his finger on the emotional and sociological pulse however erratic it may be.  Even putting aside the obvious fact that the novel traces White's autobiographical map, it is fitting that he sets his main character, primly settled in a 90s way, in Paris, only to bring him home later on in a dramatic and thoroughly shocking scene which depicts how alienating it is to be home sweet home in the USA.  He is unrelenting in alternately entertaining and frustrating the reader with the Paris social set-ups. However personal they may be it's still Paris; I found his Parisian friends to be warm and wonderfully human, surviving beautifully at the end of the millennium in a mix both European traditions and present day trends.<br />Against this background, he describes an ultimately heartbreaking and mysterious love affair with Julien whose demise is eminent from the get-go.  The destructive spiral of the AIDS disease is so pervasive that I lose all perspective whenever I am confronted with its story.  This case is no exception: the struggle to stay alive from day-to-day and cope with the slow, searing disintegration, and the physical and emotional caprice, is a nightmare.  How Julien and Austin manage this path is not up for judgment, the story stands alone and defies anyone to ask if there was a better way to cope.  <br />This is a exceptional book.  It pitches perceptive and vital characters beautifully enunciated by fine writing against the tragic destruction of disease and early death.  This is not easy to read about and causes fire in the heart (if the strong reactions of  my fellow reviewers are any indication) but it is also deeply enlightening.	2001-05-23
US	52995464	R20ZJKXFB0SFR6	0809255553	603902903	Triathlon: A Triple Fitness Sport	Books	5	1	1	N	N	GO GO GO!	This is the first book I ever read about triathlons and it got me kick-started into the sport.  It is clear, precise and exceptionally motivating. What helps me the most is the advice on how to divide up the workouts by week and how much emphasis to place on each sport.  When this book was first published, LSD (long, slow distance!) was the keyword and this book helped me to develop that in my training and not get discouraged.  It made me, an average middle-of-the-pack athlete, feel like a winner!	2001-05-15
US	52995464	R2YDLHSF0WREK5	0802135455	422340786	Once Is Not Enough (Jacqueline Susann)	Books	4	12	13	N	N	You can't go home again...	...but I tried by picking up this book.  When I was 13 my mother refused to allow VALLEY OF THE DOLLS in the house so I read it bit by bit at the local library and was thrilled by the fast-lane problems, hard characters and handy pills.  Even as an early adolescent it was easy to recognize good trashy fun.<br />ONCE IS NOT ENOUGH is not great literature but it still delivers and now, in retrospect, points up the 70s as a kind of innocent time when everyone went to New York City to find their fortune and fill their heart's desire, as well as drempt of being rich enough to travel around in style. Susann knows that it's entertaining to read about folks who travel at a moment's notice to Los Angeles, London, Rome, Cannes and Switzerland to play out their caprices.  It seems daring of Susann to write about January's ambiguous love for her father and to describe nearly sexual scenes between them. The book remains steadfastly moral however, and January, who has everything anyone could wish for, remains alone and unloved, realizing too late that one moment of happiness is not enough.	2001-05-14
US	52995464	R2X6HTCK4BBMGR	0312252684	231015250	All About All About Eve: The Complete Behind-the-Scenes Story of the Bitchiest Film Ever Made!	Books	3	3	3	N	N	A bumpy night with Eve	Personally, this was both more than I wanted to know about Eve and not enough about ALL ABOUT EVE. There's a lot of information here about the person who inspired the story of Eve Harrington but what I was looking for was information about the filming of the movie. The most detailed information involves the filming that took place at the old theatre in San Francisco. The research is impressive, especially concerning the director Mankiewicz, all the actors and the original story written by Mary Orr. Best of all are the boxes within the text which give wonderful details and add levity to what could have been a tedious tome. It is fun to read and although I wanted to put it down, I found I couldn't.	2001-05-10
US	52995464	R1TGUSEZQE55JZ	0745157661	722977541	Watson's Apology	Books	5	14	14	N	N	They drove each other NUTS!	This book is a real gem.  The pleasure of reading it works in several ways.  First, the Victorian period is evoked with  stifling and dingy clarity; second, the character flaws and clashes between both Watson and his wife are drawn naturally and unsparingly; and finally, because the murder and its consequences are tightly and thrillingly narrated.  It's such a page-turner that I can't understand why it hasn't been a hit on any continent (I found it at a used book seller's in London).	2001-05-09
US	52995464	RIR5B1P1FMWXC	0786709359	722977541	Watson's Apology: A Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	They drove each other NUTS!	This book is a real gem. The pleasure of reading it works in several ways. First, the Victorian period is evoked with stifling and dingy clarity; second, the character flaws and clashes between both Watson and his wife are drawn naturally and unsparingly; and finally, because the murder and its consequences are tightly and thrillingly narrated. It's such a page-turner that I can't understand why it hasn't been a hit on any continent (I found it at a used book seller's in London).	2001-05-09
US	52995464	R15RNI530DGJ25	0375505822	389088863	The Bay of Angels: A Novel	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Angels and drama from the best writer around	This writer has got to be the best wordsmith around.  In each novel the sentences stand alone, dynamic, fresh and gleaming in intensity.  The story is important, the characters are profound but these are often upstaged by the absolute pleasure of reading such sharp writing.  I can't be the only person buying the latest novel of Anita Brookner every year as soon as it hits the shelf.<br />Much has been said about Brookner's lonely women and feminist approach and I will leave that to others who are better informed than me to remark upon.  What I look for in every novel is the dramatic turn which never fails to be exciting.  In THE BAY OF ANGELS, there are several but the most outstanding is the moment when Zoe returns to reclaim her stepfather's house in Nice and finds it already occupied, cocktails in hand, by his greedy relatives.  The attitudes and survival tactics of the women who share the clinique with Zoe's sick mother are searing.  Best of all is the moment by the sea when Zoe's reflects on the angels flying up from the bay and inward to land where they will reinforce the already celestial commercialism of earth.  <br />A friend of mine in London once remarked to me that he sometimes sees Anita Brookner early in the morning on the Kings Road heading towards Waitrose supermarket.  I was astounded, &quot;doesn't anyone stop her,&quot; I asked imagining that she would be beset with fans.  &quot;No,&quot; said my friend, &quot;nobody knows who she is.&quot;   I would prefer to think that London is so vast that it renders one anonymous and invisible which is often the very dilemma ensnaring her characters.	2001-05-04
US	52995464	R38V74MQ4MW35H	1928704174	296181748	Ted Bundy : Conversations with a Killer	Books	3	10	15	N	N	A criminal to the very end	This was agony to read largely because it never gets beyond Bundy's constant evasion.  There are numerous references to &quot;the book&quot; that the interviewers and Bundy were hoping to realize but it is obvious that the book they imagined is not what we now have.  For most of the interviews, Bundy insists on upholding the illusion that he is not guilty.  In the face of what we know, and in consideration for the victims and their families, this becomes nearly intolerable to read.  However, the interviewers themselves employ expert technique which redeems this effort.	2001-04-26
US	52995464	R7RZBKAV6E9JZ	044022585X	175778980	Vulgar Favors: Andrew Cunanan, Gianni Versace, and the Largest Failed Manhunt in U.S. History	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Whose mess is this anyway?	Facts, if you can find them, first: the crimes of Andrew Cunanan are terrible.  Amid these terrible deeds we find no logic and, above all, no relief from this incomprehensible devastation.  If I pick up a book like this, it's because I want to know what happened and, as much as is possible, why.  Especially, I want to know if justice is somehow served and that the families of the victims are comforted and even vindicated.<br />This book is difficult to get through.  Maureen Orth has compiled the massive list of facts and circumstances and in some cases reworked them so that there are contradictions and inconsistencies from one page to the next. The book itself is therefore a mess and I couldn't get beyond being irritated.  The editing, or writing - I don't know who is to blame -  is poor: some dates, times, people, places and relationships are represented differently, admittedly small details but still it jolts to read them.	2001-04-10
US	52995464	RITM2DSQ166TH	0451527569	165299353	The House of Mirth (Signet Classics)	Books	5	188	198	N	N	MY FRIEND LILY BART	I stumbled upon a review of the recent film of THE HOUSE OF MIRTH in the TLS and, in order to have the novel firmly fixed in my mind (that is, before the lush, seductive images of film forever eradicated Wharton's novel from me) I dragged my copy off the shelf for a re-read.  It had been 16 years since I last read of Lily Bart and her life, and I didn't realize how much I had missed her.  For me, this is one of the great reading experiences, one of a handful that make reading a book the deeply moving and human exchange that it is.  Despite the distance of wealth, property, time and manners, Wharton manages to make Lily's world and life palpable to anyone who will listen.  The clash of money, morals, personality and circumstance is infinitely developed and played out in front of a never fading natural world.  Once again, I was deeply moved by Lily Bart and at the end, felt I had lost someone myself.	2000-11-30
US	52995464	R21JAO8CMTIBL1	006017143X	807655132	The Night Listener: A Novel	Books	3	24	31	N	N	What I read while walking the dog	I have not often been so uncomfortable reading a novel. On the surface, the book is about a writer and his relationship with an abused and ill teenager who exists only in a draft novel and as a disembodied voice over the phone line.  In fact, it's really about a writer struggling with his recent and bewildering break-up, with his own middle-age and his blossoming self-awareness and dawning humility. I squirmed, put the book aside, did the dishes, read, walked the dog and picked it up again to get through it headlong and finally.   I liked that that the protagonist is not very endearing.  He's intelligent and sweet (Maupin could not write a bitter character!) of course but he's also arrogant, pushy and relatively unaware of the feelings, needs and efforts of the people who love him.  There are truly wonderful but brief depictions that moved and interested me: his lover Jess, the aged dog Hugo, the bi-sexual truck driver and especially the writer's mother. Unfortunately, not being a story about these interesting people, we are constantly drawn back to this hammering saga of a writer struggling with his own humility and powerlessness.  This is too much personal surgery out of which to make an interesting novel.	2000-11-21
US	52995464	RKYG0Z79I73Y7	0375704639	893716525	Trumpet: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Gender issues at work	This is what kept me with this novel: the complete assumption that Moody's life and gender choice are normal implying that the world is remiss in not getting it.  Even more tenacious is the wife's grief which is deeply moving  and cut into me mercilessly.  This grief and the palpable love between  Moody and his wife pulled me in and made this book work.  The jazz theme is  atmospheric and lends Moody, playing a wild trumpet, a voice which  transcends gender roles. If I found this novel hard-going at times it  wasn't because of the hot subject of a famous jazz trumpeter who turns out  to be a woman disguised as a man -- refreshing, unique and oddly believable  -- but because the several witnesses seemed contrived and laboured.  The  embittered son, the egocentric, tawdry journalist and the perverse  undertaker, for example, were predictable and stereotypic but not so much  as to get in the way of this novel's deeply beating heart.  A very  satisfying read.	2000-07-20
US	52995464	R273ZP2Y102ER8	0375400559	306656129	Original Story By: A Memoir of Broadway and Hollywood	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Another Piece Of the Puzzle	The history of entertainment in the US is a fascinating maze of economics, innovation and, not least of all, personality and talent.  For me, what Laurents does best here is to fill in some of the missing pieces, elaborate  and embellish the already legendary story of Broadway and especially the  musical theatre from the 50s and beyond.  It is enriching to get another  point of view on the making of such influential shows as West Side Story  and Gypsy.  It is also daunting to learn how many and in what ways swollen  egos spoiled or shaped the creative process and result.  Laurent's anger at  those who squealed during the HUAC witchhunt is palpable and his frankness  about his and others' sexuality is...well...titillating but sometimes quite  silly.  His outspokenness would have been socially uplifting 30 years ago.   Today, it seems to echo those who have already gone before him.  This is a  book that needs to be added to musical theatre history especially for those  of us who believe in the musical theatre (and not in the mind-deadening  nonsense on Broadway and in the West End today).	2000-07-18
US	52995464	R29FWUJGZBI73Y	037550334X	2243911	Undue Influence: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Social commentary for the rest of us	I am a devoted Brookner reader so I will be biased.  I enjoy her sentences and observations; the themes and characters inhabiting her work often function as simple vessels for the striking images and ideas which dominate  these books.  In this last novel, of all the wacky protagonists she has  created, Claire Pitt is immersed in her fantasy life to the point of  blindness.  She's grieving the death of her mother, she can't think  straight, yet she's getting on with her day, her life and making big  misjudgements.  This is familiar Brookner territory but it never fails to  be effective and exciting.  The people who surround Claire, in particular  the two elderly women who own the rare book shop, as well as the father and  son who buy them out, are intriguing and fully, if sadly, developed.<br />A  friend in London recently told me some good gossip: while waiting for his  bus he sees Brookner heading out to theWaitRose Supermarket on the King's  Road at eight in the morning to do her shopping.  First I was struck with  how similar this is to her own characters with their ordered lives which  begin early in the day. But if I saw Brookner on the street I would want to  talk to her. &quot;Doesn't anybody stop and speak with her,&quot; I asked.  &quot;No,&quot; he replied, &quot;I doubt anybody knows who she is.&quot;  Amazing, humbling and wonderful.	2000-06-30
US	52995464	R1ACR42OHH1N6L	037550334X	2243911	Undue Influence: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Social commentary for the rest of us	I am a devoted Brookner reader so I will be biased.  I enjoy her sentences and observations; the themes and characters inhabiting her work often function as simple vessels for the striking images and ideas which dominate  these books.  In this last novel, of all the wacky protagonists she has  created, Claire Pitt is immersed in her fantasy life to the point of  blindness.  She's grieving the death of her mother, she can't think  straight, yet she's getting on with her day, her life and making big  misjudgements.  This is familiar Brookner territory but it never fails to  be effective and exciting.  The people who surround Claire, in particular  the two elderly women who own the rare book shop, as well as the father and  son who buy them out, are intriguing and fully, if sadly, developed.  <br />A  friend in London recently told me some good gossip: while waiting for his  bus he sees Brookner heading out to theWaitRose Supermarket on the King's  Road at eight in the morning to do her shopping.  First I was struck with  how similar this is to her own characters with their ordered lives which  begin early in the day. But if I saw Brookner on the street I would want to  talk to her. &quot;Doesn't anybody stop and speak with her,&quot; I asked.   &quot;No,&quot; he replied, &quot;I doubt anybody knows who she is.&quot;   Amazing, humbling and wonderful.	2000-06-30
US	52995464	R3NYIR8BBU2S21	037550334X	2243911	Undue Influence: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Social commentary for the rest of us	I am a devoted Brookner reader so perhaps I am not qualified to &quot;review&quot; any book written by her. I so thoroughly enjoy her sentences and observations that to me the theme and characters inhabiting  her works are almost vessels for the delicious and striking images and  ideas which exist in her books. Nevertheless, in this last novel it occured  to me that of all the protagonists in the novels Claire Pitt is so immersed  in her fantasy life as to be nearly insane. Her fantasies seem to have  increased as a result of mourning the loss of her mother. In bordering on  insanity, I am reminded of Defoe's Roxana but this comparison could only be  considered capricious by any serious critic. The characters around Claire,  in particular the two elderly women who own the rare book store, as well as  the father and son who buy them out, are intriguing and fully, if sadly,  developed.	2000-06-27
US	52995464	R1VA8ATTFAPXJU	0671027204	725696403	Frontiers	Books	5	4	5	N	N	How the West was really won!	If you like your tales to be adventurous, and your men to be rough and strong but also sweet and innocent in a way that only frontiersmen can be, then this is the book for you.  I didnt' think I would fall for an  historical gay romance novel but I was hooked from the get-go.  The  prototypical characters are endearing, from our hero John Chapman (who  takes almost as many pratfalls as Lucille Ball) to the monstrous villian  Zach who, despite his murderous bent, gives some of the best fictional sex  I've read in years.  Add to this some really beautiful descriptions of  Western Pennsylvania and frontier life, a blooming love story with a  youthful buddy surrounded by a menacing, racist community (an Indian boy is  killed for no reason), and you've got a novel that would hold any reader's  interest.  I only hope there's a second volume in the making because I want  to know what happens next!	1999-05-06
US	52995464	R17Z6E2AO20U07	0312180632	161864981	Call Me: A Novel (Stonewall Inn Editions)	Books	1	5	6	N	Y	Self-hatred run riot	There is so much that is upsetting about this novel that it is difficult to even reflect on it.  Among the many problems is the supposition that the protagonist is using the classified ads as a way of dealing with his grief  for his boyfriend.  The author, whose writing talent is considerable, fails  to ever fully enunciate how much Liam loved his boyfriend and how his death  has left him bereft.  His passing seems more like a literary devise to  justify in some vaguely untouchable way his truely reprehensible behaviour  towards the people he meets.  And, although the characters he meets and the  situations he describes are interesting, there are repeated and pointless  references to the tragic acts of serial killer Dennis Nilson, a murderer  who never used classified ads as part of his hunting method.  Add to this  the many and dull passages about an electronic keyboard and it's technical  advantages and the result is a novel that appears offensive and capricious  and does nothing at all to support or refute the reality of people who are  lonely, grieving or simply looking for love or sex.  The hero in this novel  simply sneers and loses any credence with the reader.	1999-02-25
US	52995464	R27Z9FBBSB4RA8	0345418832	473698503	Puzzled Heart (Kate Fansler Novels)	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Great mystery writing	Finally a mystery novel that is well written. My interest never let up.  In addition to a intricate and unusual plot, the characters are nicely drawn and the dialogue is tight and perfect.  This was a real pleasure to  read.	1998-12-08
US	52995464	R24UVJWV7DUV3L	0684849364	585397299	California Screaming: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Gym rats gone WEHO	What is refreshing and entertaining about this book is that the West  Hollywood lifestyle is sent up completely, touching upon and torching the  gym culture, the size obsession (steroids and penis enlargement), money,  sex, drugs and ATTITUDE.  It's an entertaining and vivid indictment and I  got not a few laughs out of the author's style and in particular the dialog  which is excellent.  However, there is not a lot of humanity in the  characterizations and although the irony and social comedy reminded me of  the writings of Robert Rodi and Ethan Mordden, the people in this story  lacked the kind of charisma which would make me care about them.  For a  social comedy and a cynical but hilarious send-up this is top-notch.	1998-08-31
US	52995464	R2NBFWA934977Z	1563331918	541241236	Temple Slave (Richard Kasak Books)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Anger in its proper place	I was totally taken with this story of the birth of performance art and off-off Broadway.  Robert Patrick appears to be writing a novel in Temple Slave (the names have been changed to protect the innocent, so to speak) but in fact gives a wonderfully angry, sweet, sad, touching, detailed and often thrilling account of his experiences as a writer, performer and gay man in New York in the 60s.  There's also tons of sex but so what, if Edmund White can do it (re: THE FAREWELL SYMPHONY) why can't Robert Patrick?  And if you've ever questioned the value of Warhol and Pop Art you will be as tickled as I was to find that you are not alone.	1998-06-09
US	52995464	R3MW2T6XD0CPT9	0374113262	452208432	Jane Austen: A Life	Books	4	14	14	N	N	What was in those letters that Cassandra burned?	This is a good read, well-researched, well thought out and written. Mr. Nokes takes his reader through a fairly wonderful ride about Steventon and its environs. He gives a very clear picture of Jane Austen's family, especially in his interpretations of her relationships with her sister and brothers and cousin Eliza. Notwithstanding his research and his ability to capture and understand Jane Austen and her life, there are some surprising problems which occur later in his book. He does a nice job convincing the reader of Jane Austen's acerbic wit, her double entendres, her hidden messages, her colorful disdain and delights as revealed in her letters. Consequently it is all the more unsettling when Mr. Nokes, three-quarters into his book, does an abrupt about-face and takes a familiar passage from one of her letters at face value. I refer to the passage where she writes of PRIDE AND PREJUDICE as being &quot;rather too sparkling...wants to be stretched out...with a long chapter...An Essay on Writing, a critique on Walter Scott, or the history of Buonaparte&quot;. It is beyond anyone's credibility to imagine that the writer of NORTHANGER ABBEY would write these words with any intent but satire and mockery but Mr. Nokes, after having demonstrated how exceptionally mocking and satirical Jane Austen could be, decides to take her at face value and remarks, &quot;suddenly...she felt as if there was nothing that she could not or dared not write&quot;. Perhaps he wants to distinguish himself from other biographers by a fresh appraisal of Jane Austen's self regard but I am not convinced that, upon publication of her early works, she suddenly felt a modern sense of stardom. Mr. Nokes seems to imply that SENSE AND SENSIBILITY and PRIDE AND PREJUDICE, early drafts of which were written years before publication, were simply pulled out of her writer's desk, dusted off and updated so that the certain references would seem contemporary. I was fascinated that Mr. Nokes ends this biography by depicting Jane's brother George (essentially banished and forgotten by the Austen parents for being mentally handicapped) as an example of Jane's ultimate selfishness and callous nature. I doubt that enough is known of the circumstances for this conclusion to be just.hy by depicting Jane's brother George (essentially banished and forgotten by the Austen parents for being mentally handicapped) as an example of Jane's ultimate selfishness and callous nature. I doubt that enough is known of the circumstances for this conclusion to be just.	1998-04-15
US	52995464	R16XQBQPYX4HR9	031215660X	112911003	Some Men Are Lookers	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	BRUSH UP YOUR SONDHEIM START QUOTING HIM NOW	Even though this is the fourth of Mordden's series on gay Manhattan, this is the first one I've read.  I immediately went out and purchased the third,  which attests to the fact that I found lots of fun and solace in reading this book.  Between the laughs, I felt swell because I could recognize the musical comedy quotes and the references to gay life in the 70s and 80s on the east coast.  I think it's interesting that the Kirkus review mentions Ivy Compton-Burnett because the relationships in this book have the same elusive quality as the ones in her books, often characterized only by quirky dialogue.  However, I disagree with the Kirkus review: I found this book and especially the repartee to be funny, and several of the episodes are quite moving.  It's  amazing to see that a good writer is recording the paths our lives have taken within gay culture: I was reminded of myself and my early friends, many of whom are now gone.  And, as sappy as this sounds, I felt that our friendships and caprices had all meant something after all	1997-08-19
US	52995464	R3SWROG345UXGW	0306796139	808275652	Dance To The Piper: An Autobiography (Da Capo Series in Dance)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	REPRINT THIS BOOK!	I read this book years ago as well as all the other &quot;Agnes&quot; books and am sorry to find that it is completely unavailable.  Ms. de Mille writes about dance in such a way that anyone can appreciate and understand the evolution and importance of dance in America.  She gives a frontier spirit to her story of life in Hollywood in the twenties, and of her struggles to become a dancer and choreographer.  I went to a lecture she gave in 1978 at the &quot;Y&quot; in Philadelphia and, even after two strokes, this courageous lady managed to keep an entire audience in thrall with her enthusiasm for dance and America...they don't make 'em like they used to	1997-07-11
US	52995464	R3DUETJES5RB2S	088184411X	325517580	The Mammoth Book of True Crime	Books	4	19	20	N	N	CHECK THE DOORS AND WINDOWS BUT WHICH CENTURY ARE WE IN?	As usual, Wilson's obsessive accounts of the criminal mind at work are unnerving and in this book he delivers a fantastic range of disgusting tales and trials.  I expected something at the end , along the lines of &quot;if you actually finished this book, get psychiatric help because you need it.&quot;  In other words, a thoroughly entertaining read, if just a tad too wild for bedtime (don't read it to your children; read parts of it to people who bore you, just to get back at them).  However, where is the editing?  There's a countless number of mistakes regarding dates, and centuries are jumped within the same story so I didn't know when to picture FBI forensics or Holmes and Watson.  There are several typos too: for example, homosexual brothel became homosexual brother, not the same thing at all.  The result is a feeling of a book hastily assembled and this takes away from its credibility (which, considering the subject, might not be a bad thing).  Nevertheless, I've had a second lock put on the door which gave me little comfort as I read these true stories of murder, mutilation, cannibalism, torture..	1997-06-12
US	52995464	R2WXCWB5D37GNU	0671002252	125754	The Man of the House	Books	5	2	2	N	N	a moving, funny and disturbing book	I think S. McCauley does something in this novel that I have not seen in other contemporary novels recently: he writes in a unique style that makes the reader laugh while at the same time touching the heartstrings. Normally, this is not so unusual but his style is different. In MAN OF THE HOUSE he's both arch and simple.  The scene in the restaurant where the two friends meet and try to discuss their problems while not listening to each other is full of comic details, as is the fantastic scene in the revival movie house where the audience talks through CAROUSEL, comments loudly on the performances and cries at the ending. It's the unexpected but true details that hit me: the audience crying at the ending of CAROUSEL, and the waitress at the empty restaurant pretending to know about Carl the unwitting heartthrob.  These scenes, combined with the family dilemmas which result in the permanently lost dog, are totally involving	1997-06-06
