US	52995728	R3FG35OVXGZ5AA	0801023904	938787680	A Reformation Debate	Books	5	34	34	N	N	Great primary source - real Jewel	This very helpful book is really two letters from two highly qualified church leaders, Cardinal Sadoleto for the Catholics and John Calvin for the Reformers.  The editor writes a very fair and balanced introduction giving biographic background to both men and why they wrote.<br /><br />Cardinal Sadoleto, having heard that Calvin and Farel have left Geneve, writes to encourage the city fathers to return to the Roman Catholic fold.  From his letter you will get a Catholic's view of the causes and reasons for the reformation.  You will also gain insight into the Catholic view of salvation, religious authority, and the nature of the church from one of their finest theologians of the day.<br /><br />Calvin is asked to write a response to Cardinal Sadoleto's letter.  He answers the Cardinal's charges, counters his position and gives a clear defense of the reformation.<br /><br />The beauty of a book like this is it gives the opinions, insights, and positions of men who were there.  Rome and the Reformers get to speak for themselves.  There is no comment by the editor beyond setting context.  This book will be equally helpful to Roman Catholics and Protestants.<br /><br />There is also a wonderful appendix at the end of the two letters covering the doctrine of Justification.  First are key sections of Calvin's writings on Justification taken from his \\"Institutes of the Christian Religion\\".  Again there is no commentary on what Calvin wrote, it is simply his own teachings on this key subject.  Next are key sections from the Council of Trent, the Roman Catholic Church's rebuttal to the Reformed doctrine of Justification.<br /><br />The inclusion of these to statements on Justification is very valuable to the reader, especially those just beginning to read the history of the Reformation.  This doctrine is at the heart of the debate, both historically, as the formal cause of the Reformation, and also in the letters of both Sadoleto and Calvin.<br /><br />In this little treasure of a book, the reader is treated to a first hand view of the issues and causes of the Reformation and the role the doctrine of Justification.  The Council of Trent continues to reflect the official doctrinal statement of the Roman Catholic Church on Justification, and Calvin's writing on the subject continues to represent the position held by Reformed churches.<br /><br />Great gift for pastor, student, or anyone who desires to know more about the Reformation.  Enjoy!nd view of the issues and causes of the Reformation and the role the doctrine of Justification.  The Council of Trent continues to reflect the official doctrinal statement of the Roman Catholic Church on Justification, and Calvin's writing on the subject continues to represent the position held by Reformed churches.    Great gift for pastor, student, or anyone who desires to know more about the Reformation.  Enjoy!	2005-07-21
US	52995728	R33FGQSKYA40PS	0830823409	98593736	Parenting in the Pew: Guiding Your Children into the Joy of Worship	Books	5	6	7	N	N	I Love This Book	One of the perennial issues all parents have to deal with is how to effectively train their children to participate in the morning/evening worship service.  This can be one of the most embarrassing seasons in any parents life.  But it is also one of the most important seasons in the life of your child as they learn to participate in the right worship of God among congregation of the redeemed.    Robbie Castleman has written a very helpful book on how to train your children to be in the worship service.  This book is a very practical guide to help you train-up your children to enjoy the worship service.  She helps the reader understand that the quality of what happens on Sunday starts on Saturday evening.  As a pastor's wife, Castleman had to sit with her children as a \\"single mother\\" because her husband was in the pulpit.  She tells you how she not only survived but how she learned to make the time in the pew Christ honoring both for her and her children.  I could not over state how helpful this book was to my wife and me as we brought our children into the worship service and toddlers.  Great gift idea.  Should be on every church's book table and a regular part of a congregations' helping young parents in training-up their children in the way they should go. This book should be given to every young family that attends church services.	2005-05-27
US	52995728	R19Y21VMVX31DP	0966731107	156894786	Uniting Church and Home, A Blueprint for Rebuilding Church Community	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Why did it take so long to write something so obvious?	This is a very practical, to the point, why and how-to book about building the local church ministry around God's plan for the family.  Wallace writes \\"Strong households are the core of strongs churches, and strong churches are the foundation for outreach to others.\\"  He lays out a plan for raising your children in the faith that truly passes on the rich heritage of Christianity.  In a generation that has gone crazy trying to make the church run like a business rather than a community of the redeemed in covenant relationship to Christ and each other, this book is a breath of fresh air.  Wallace lays out a four-part vision for building families in the context of the church as family.  Rejecting age-segregated, individualized Christianity, If you like this book, check out R. C. Sproul Jr.'s book Family Practice, where he argues for a similar idea but more clearly covenantal.  After you have read these then get a copy of Douglas Wilson's Mother Kirk.	2005-05-27
US	52995728	R1Z871U036M3KI	0875524982	551076824	Family Practice: God's Prescription for a Healthy Home	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Building Covenant Family Churches	This book is a great introduction into understanding the biblical concept of the covenants and how they relate to the family.  Each chapter is written by a different author, such as R.C. Sproul Jr., his father, Douglas and Nancy Wilson, Elizabeth Elliot, Franklin Sanders, Edna Gerstner, and others.  The introduction by R. C. Sproul Jr., The Covenant Family is well worth the price of the book.  With simplicity and clearity, he unfolds the significants of biblical covenants, what that means for families, and the duties that follow.  Each chapter develops the details laid out in the introduction with short, clear, and very practical exposition.  If you are just starting to read concerning families from a reformed and covenantal perspective this book will help you get started.  Its message calls us away from the overly individualistic, decision oriented, consumer driven Christianity, to a view of the family that is grounded in the great covenantal redemptive acts of God.  Enjoy!  If you like this book then check out Eric Wallace's book Uniting Church and Home.	2005-05-27
US	52995728	RHUCALWGUVRQT	0801020646	122294469	Dictionary of Latin and Greek Theological Terms: Drawn Principally from Protestant Scholastic Theology	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Very Helpful Tool!	This is one of the most helpful tools in my library.  Muller defines key Latin theological terms that you will read in key importantant works of dogmatics.  He doesn't just give the simply definition, but also writes about its historical significance in the development in the history of doctrine.  At the end of entry Muller gives significant cross-references of other Latin terms.  This work opens up the rich history of thought in the church and is easily understood.  This is a great tool for any student of theology, layman or pastor.  You don't need to know Latin to profit by this book.  I highly recommend this book!<br /><br />Update.<br /><br />I just purchased the Kindle version of this book. While the content of the book and the Kindle version is the same as the hardbound, it's functionality is very poor indeed. Using it on my iPhone, there is no table of contents in order to look up a word. There is an adequate search engine, but it gives you every occurrence of the word without being able to distinguish a major article from simply a usage inside of a larger paragraph.<br /><br />Another flaw is that the Kindle version is not hyper link. At the end of many words and trees, Mueller has given additional Latin words to look up that are found in his text. It would be most useful to be able to just click on those words and go to their entry to read more broadly in the text. Amazon charges over $17 for Kindle version. IMHO, the Kindle version is worth about $.99. By the hardcopy forget the electronic version until there is some significant updating.	2005-05-27
US	52995728	R2LI5MGGGIGN1	1591280087	250250488	The Lord's Service: The Grace of Covenant Renewal Worship	Books	5	22	26	N	N	A Must Read - Don't Miss This One!!!!!	Saying this book is \\"original\\" would be wrong and misleading.  There is nothing new or novel about it.  Thank the Lord!  There is just too much \\"new and novel\\" when it comes to most books on worship.  Yet this book is packed with fresh insight and perspective.  Chapter 6 & 7 alone are worth the price of the book.  They give a year's worth of reflection on what you really believe about worship and why you are doing what you do in worship.  In these chapters, Meyers discusses the relationship between practice and belief and the role of the Trinity in our worship.  Nothing new about these subjects or issues - yet his approach to these subjects will leave you and your church wondering why you haven't spent more time dealing with them.  It may very well cause you to significantly change what you sing, how you pray and the structure of your service.    The overall statement of the book is that worship is only rightly understood in light of the biblical doctrine of covenant.  The weekly worship service is a Covenant Renewal service and therefore its style, form and content are defined by covenantal relationship between the Triune God and the church.    The book is straightforward, easy to read and packed full of needed insights.  This is the kind of book you will want to read with a pen, highlighter, ruler, and notebook nearby.  This is the kind of book you don't simply read - you work through it - not because it is hard but because it is full.    Michael Horton's \\"A Better Way\\" and D. Hart's \\"With Reverence and Awe\\" are great compliments to this work.  Each develops a similar view of worship with nuances of differences and each with their own needed contribution.  If you are seriously working through what the Bible says about how we rightly approach God in worship read all three of these books.  If you can only read one, make it \\"The Lord's Service\\".  Great place to start, but I guarantee that it will move you forward in your thinking and cause you to want to read more.Soli Deo Gloria	2005-01-21
US	52995728	R221MIBCQPJ5LO	080106435X	39990908	A Case for Amillennialism: Understanding the End Times	Books	5	3	4	N	N	This is a good one	I heard Kim Riddlebarger present this material in seminar form before the book came out.  Very pursuasive and compelling.  The book is not less so.  He has a great handle on the issues and presents the material in a manner that is easy to follow, conclusive and clear.  Great for the reader just getting started in the issues of the millennium, but is also instructive for the person who has already be working through this important issue.  Great book for personal study, small group study or a Sunday school class.  Also, a great give for you pastor or Bible school student.  You won't be disappointed!	2004-12-14
US	52995728	R2U7OYH17CCGOP	1879737507	738957747	The End Times Made Simple	Books	5	30	31	N	N	Book lives up to its title	Samuel Waldron has provided a very clear and easy to follow understanding of Biblical prophecy from the a-millennial perspective.  Anyone can read this and follow his very compelling argument.  This work is an excellent starting point for reading about a-millennialism.  Agree or disagree with the author, he will give you much to think about and work through.  Fair, even-handed, and Biblical you will not be disappointed.  The only weakness of this book is on the chapter on parables and end times.  Waldron is not as strong here as in the rest of the book.  However, this does not detract from the overall value of the book.  A must read for those just beginning to seek to understand a-millennialism.  This is also a good book to give to a pre-millennialist because of his fair and kind treatment of their view of last days.  While Waldron does not waver in his convictions, he writes with a kindness toward those who disagree.	2004-12-13
US	52995728	R6LNG5MGB068S	080105222X	839316544	Reformed Confessions Harmonized	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Very Helpful Tool	Thanks  Joel Beeke & Sinclair Ferguson for giving us such a wonderful tool.  With the growing interest in reformed theology, there could not be a more helpful tool then this harmony of the great reformational creeds and bibliography by doctrine of great reformed books.    In the harmony section the reformed creeds/confessions used are the Belgic Confession, Heidelberg Catechism, Second Helvetic Confession, Canons of Dort, Westminster Confession, Westminster Shorter Catechism, and Westminster Larger Catechism.  Doctrine by doctrine each of these creed/confessions is laid out side-by-side so the reader can eaily compare how each of these documents handled the great doctrines of the Bible.  Instead of having 5-7 different books in front of you, now you can all these reformed statements of faith before you.      The bibliography section also goes doctrine by doctrine.  Beeke and Ferguson give a list of important reformed authors covering the doctrines found in the creeds/confessions.  They at times will make brief comments as to the strenght or weakness of the books listed.      This is a great tool for anyone teaching doctrine or wanting to learn it.  Makes a great gift for your pastor, seminary student, or anyone who likes to really dig deep into the historic creed faith of Christianity.  You won't be dissappointed!	2004-10-13
US	52995728	R4HFY916KLNHW	0801060281	363282938	Divorce	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Exegetical - Sound - Insightful	The question of divorce and remarriage regularly comes up in pastoral counseling and local church ministry.  With the growning divorce rate, the church is being forced to deal with divorce and remarriage more and more.  Sound and clear Biblical thinking is required.   This book by John Murray is both.  This work is technical, written to deal with the original languages and does not avoid dealing with the hardest of questions concerning divorce and remarriage.  It is not a quick read - it takes time and reflection - but it is worth every once of effort.  As a supplement work - an more popularly written also consult Jay E. Adams' work \\"Marriage, Divorce & Remarriage.\\"  Murray's work covers the exegetical problems, while Adams' work is more pastoral.  The two together will equip the reader with great insight and Biblical knowledge to counsel members of the congregation.    Like on many other issues, Christians are divided on the biblical understanding of divorce and remarriage. Some don't believe in divorce for any reason. Others, while they believe there are grounds for divorce, see no biblical basis for a subsequent remarriage. Others, such as Adams and Murray, hold that there are very limited and specific justifications for divorce and if and only if these are met is there any gournds for remarriage.     If you are still working through what the Bible teaches, Adams' and Murray's works will give you a good apologetic for believing there are limited and specific grounds for biblical divorce and remarriage.     If you have been taught or believe that there are no grounds for remarriage but want to know the arguements of those who do, these two books will be helpful.     You may agree or disagree with Adams or Murray, but you will find excellent development of their position in these books.     This is a very serious subject on a lot of levels. Please handle the subject carefully.	2004-10-13
US	52995728	RV2LR7J9ETW46	0801001684	737436458	Marriage, Divorce and Remarriage in the Bible	Books	5	17	22	N	N	Pastoral - Clear - Biblical	Jay Adams has been a leader in getting the Bible back into counseling.  This book is one of the fruits of his labor to help local church pastors and Christian counselors base their work on clear headed Biblical principles and not on secular psychology.    With the divorce rate among evangelicals as high as that of non-Christians, the church needs to be dealing with the questions of divorce and remarriage more often than ever before.  Adams' work is a big help.  He covers what marriage is, the key passages concerning divorce, grounds for remarriage and how to deal with divorce and remarriage.  This book should be on the shelf of every pastor and Christian counselor.    With this book, John Murray's \\"Divorce\\" is an excellent complement.  Murray's book is much more technical - dealing more indeptly with the original languages and theology of divorce and remarriage.  While Adams' work is more pastoral, Murray's work is more technical and theological.  The two complement each other and will equip the reader with clear understanding of the Biblical principle coverning marriage, divorce and remarriage.  Great books to give as gifts to your pastor.    Like on many other issues, Christians are divided on the biblical understanding of divorce and remarriage.  Some don't believe in divorce for any reason.  Others, while  they believe there are grounds for divorce, see no biblical basis for a subsequent remarriage.  Others, such as Adams and Murray, hold that there are very limited and specific justifications for divorce and if and only if these are met is there any gournds for remarriage.    If you are still working through what the Bible teaches, Adams' and Murray's works will give you a good apologetic for believing there are limited and specific grounds for biblical divorce and remarriage.    If you have been taught or believe that there are no grounds for remarriage but want to know the arguements of those who do, these two books will be helpful.    You may agree or disagree with Adams or Murray, but you will find excellent development of their position in these books.    This is a very serious subject on a lot of levels.  Please handle the subject carefully.	2004-10-13
US	52995728	R3U0KD1ZFAEZXW	0310243823	63532238	New Testament Greek Vocabulary	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	I wish I had these when I was learning Greek	Flash cards was the only means of mastering Greek vocabulary just a few years ago.  With today's CD players, and comupters a Greek student can hear, listen, and see (if you use the helplful booklet that comes with the CD) the vocabulary.  The more senses used the quicker the mastery of the meanings.  In all my language expereince (I have taken Latin, Greek Hebrew, and Spanish) vocabulary was always the secert to success.  The difficulty of grammar lessons is greatly increased or decreased by your with your confidence level with the vocabulary.  Being able to hear the Greek pronounced correctly is very benefical.  Your confidence level will grow quickly.  If you are a new Greek student or one who is seeking to do some review you will find this CD very helpful.  Don't pass this by.  This CD will play on any regular CD player or computer - including Macs.	2004-10-12
US	52995728	R2UA00HUE09Q7M	1877611727	277109666	The Almost Christian Discovered (Puritan Writings)	Books	5	38	38	N	N	Ouch!  This one hits you in the heart of the matter.	Today, many who profess Christianity ask \\"How close to the world can I get and still be a Christian?\\"  Matthew Mead shows from Biblical examples just how close one can get to Christ and still NOT be a Christian.   <br /> <br />The author takes example after example of people who demonstrated great signs of spiritual life but were never truly converted to Christ or as he puts it be \\"an almost Christian\\".  Each example is taken from Scripture.  For example, Mead shows us that one can have great and eminent spiritual gifts such as healing, cleasing and casting out demons but not be a Christian.  Certainly this discribes Judas.  Like the other apostles, Judas is sent out in Matthew 10:7-8 to preach the gospel, heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse the lepers, cast out demons.  Yet, Judas was not saved.  Mead other topics include great hatred for sin and be an almost Christian, or great signs of repentance and be an almost Christian. <br /> <br />But true to Puritan pastoral form there is also a section dealing with those who have an overly sensitive conscience.  Mead desires to convict the hypocrite not break the bruised reed.  Much to think about and work through for a generation raised upon easy grace and where anyone can even claim to be \\"born-again\\". <br /> <br />Great book for home Bible study, discipleship class, Sunday school or for personal edification.  Makes a great gift for your pastor or any serious student of theology. <br /> <br />It is possible to be zealous for God and yet miss heaven.  Mead helps expose this truth and ways to avoid such an eternal disaster.	2004-10-04
US	52995728	RI3AJC3OE2BIE	0877848262	8104530	The Atonement: Its Meaning and Significance	Books	5	39	40	N	N	It doesn't get any better than this	The Atonement - Its meaning and significance is one of the best books ever written on this subject.  Much more readable then his work The Apostolic Preaching of the Cross which covers the same material in a much more scholarly manner, this work will open up for you the treasures of the cross of Christ.  There is nothing more central to Christianity than the death of Christ - what does it mean.  His chapters deal with - covenant, sacrifice, the day of atonement, the passover, redemption, reconciliation, propitiation, and justification.  These are Biblical themes that are just not taught on in today's seeker friendly churches - to the hurt of all who truly believe on Christ.  Though readable, this work is not short on material.  Great work for a Bible class, Bible study, Sunday school class or home Bible study.  Also a great gift for your pastor if he doesn't already have this book.  Give it to him as a gift and some of it will certainly end up in his sermons.  If you are looking for additional material on this subject see John Murray's Redemption Accomplished and Applied.  Together these two works rock and will give the reader significant understanding of these vital Christian doctrines.  Enjoy!	2004-09-22
US	52995728	R1DVSJ489X7LS1	0851510272	270545979	Today's Gospel: Authentic or Synthetic?	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Learn how Jesus evangelized	This work by Walter Chantry ought to be read by anyone who is interested in seeing people come to saving faith in Jesus Christ.  In our technique addicted society this book is a breath of fresh air.  Chantry carefully walks the reader through how Jesus shared the gospel with the rich young ruler in Mark 10 and compares it to how we do evangelism today.  If you are involved in sharing the gospel, are training others in evangelism or lead a Bible study or Sunday school class this book ought to be seriously considered as part of your teaching materials.  Thought provoking, insightful and readable, this book will get others talking about how Christ shared the gospel	2004-09-22
US	52995728	R1ODPP7QKYTL4C	0802825044	345245344	The Gospel According to John (The New International Commentary on the New Testament)	Books	5	34	35	N	Y	Clear - useful - readable	Leon Morris commentary on the Gospel of John is a must have for anyone building a library of Biblical commentaries.  I have taught through this gospel on several occasions and have collected many great works on John.  However, I always find myself comming back to this commentary by Leon Morris.  It is not the only commentary to have of this great book but it is one that will contribute to your insight and understanding of John's message and meaning.  Other key Bible commentaires on John are the classic by Godet, Beasley-Murray in the Word Bible Commentary and Ridderbos' theological commentary on the gospel of John.  If you are just beginning to build your library, start with Morris.  He covers all the major issues, doesn't hide from difficult questions and fairly present alternative positions.  As a supplement to this work pick up Leon Morris' \\"Reflictions on the Gospel of John\\".  More devotional in nature, it was originally written to compliment his NIC commenatry on John.  However, last I checked this work is out of print but it can still be found via Amazon's out of print service.  Morris' commentary on John and the Reflections offer the reader a great one-two punch.  Either work can stand alone.  These works make great gifts for the Bible student or your pastor if he doesn't already have them.  You won't be disappointed!!  Enjoy!	2004-09-22
US	52995728	R1BJS57QYZEPGL	0936083093	703957058	Hospitality Commands	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Overlooked Christian Responsibility	Alexander Strauch has written one of the most helpful books on one of the most overlooked Christian responsibilities - hospitality.  The book is short, well written, and has a study guide in the back.  The church that catches a vision for New Testament hospitality will find itself having great opportunities to evangelize, find new people wanting to stay and most importantly know the rich blessing of genuine Christian relationships.  This book can be used for a Sunday school class, home Bible study or weekend retreat study.  If you read this book you will be excited about the possibilities your church can have for practically loving one another and those whom God brings into your midst.  Practical, straight forward and very Biblical like all of Strauch's books.  Enjoy!	2004-09-22
US	52995728	R28AXYL13ZOF1I	0851511465	272412004	The Ten Commandments	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Great Puritan - Great Work	Thomas Watson is one of the most readable of all the puritans.  This particular work is one of his finest.  This work has an insightful chapter on the relationship to love and commandment.  This is a concept that is lost on today's church goer.  The modern mind thinks that love and command are mutually exclusive.  Biblically they are necessarily related. <br /> <br />In the exposition of the commands, Watson not only tells you the meaning of each commandment, but how it can be used in practical terms.  This is a work you will want to use over and over again.  This book is great for pastors, Sunday school teachers or Bible study leaders.  This is a great tool.  See also Watson's volume on the Lord's Prayer which is also a classic and his work The Body of Divinity which is his exposition of the Westminster Shorter Catechisim.	2004-09-18
US	52995728	R1PT47S1WYD4JN	0851511457	515167708	Lord's Prayer	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Classic puritan work on Prayer	Thomas Watson is one of the easiest puritan writers for modern church-goers to ready.  Anything by Watson is a great place to start reading the puritans.  He is much easier than John Owen.  This work on the Lord's prayer is great!  This is one of the great Christian classics on prayer.  If you need insights for teaching or want some help in your prayer life you will not find a better book on prayer than this.  Watson takes the Lord's prayer line by line and not only shows its meaning but how you can use it in your Christian walk.  You will not be disappointed.  This book also makes a great gift for your pastor or any one who loves reading the puritans.	2004-09-18
US	52995728	R13U7TWGRFQZJ3	0851513832	578556656	A Body of Divinity (Body of Practical Divinity)	Books	5	23	24	N	N	A gold mine!  Great tool for teacher, discipler, preacher	Thomas Watson is one of the great puritan writers, and this is one of his finest books.  It is Watson's exposition of the Westminster Shorter Catechism.  With skill of a theologian and a heart of a pastor, Watson unfolds for the reader the great doctrines of the Bible.  This book is a resource that you will never exhaust for its insights and helps.  Great tool for someone working with new believers, introducing others to doctrine.  Don't miss his other classic works, The Ten Commandments and The Lord's prayer.  You will not be disappointed.  All these make great gifts and something your pastor will prize if he doesn't already have them.  Enjoy!	2004-09-18
US	52995728	R31YBSRDY9HQ30	1589600770	949423705	A Divine Cordial - Romans 8: 28	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great tool for comforting the hurting	Thomas Watson is one of the great puritan writers and is one of the easiest for the modern church goer to read.  This wonderful little book by Watson is a great source of comfort for the hurting Christians.  Watson unpacks this great verse by Paul that offers hope in a fallen world.  Our own sin and the sins of others against us often leave us dispairing and wondering where is the hope of the gospel.  This work by Waston gives focuses us on the hope that will not fail.  It is a great comfort in the midst of trials and testings.  Even better, read it before the times of trial and testing - it will be a great source of strength and insight that will give you tools to walk by faith when time are difficult.  This is a real gem of a book.  Often overlooked, this book by Watson can be used in leading a Bible study, or discipleship group.  I have even used it in counseling sessions.  The spiritual value of this book far exceeds what you will pay for it.  Also makes a great gift for your pastor or anyone who enjoys reading classic puritan theology.  Enjoy!	2004-09-18
US	52995728	R2WIHHKGDJL6YP	0802811213	279635094	Christianity and Liberalism	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A Must Read for the Thinking Christian	There are certain men that the Lord Jesus Christ has raised-up for teaching beyond their generation.  Knowingly or not, they saw well beyond their years and circumstances.  They understood the Bible and the world well enough to see clearly beyond the horizon of their own time in history.  One such man is J. Gresham Machen.  His book Christianity and Liberalism is a book that is as poignant and relevant today as when it was first published.  Written to expose how the battle of Modernism vs. Fundamentalism in the early 1900's was not merely an intramural struggle between Christians of different doctrinal persuasions.  Rather, the struggle was between two separate and antithetical religions (Biblical Christianity vs. Liberalism) that while sharing a religious language and forms have absolutely nothing in common.  Machen writes concerning Christianity and Liberalism these words,    \\"In my little book, Christianity and Liberalism, I tried to show that the issue in the Church of the present day is not between two varieties of the same religion, but, at bottom, between two essentially different types of thought and life.  There is much interlocking of the branches, but the two tendencies, Modernism and supernaturalism, or (otherwise designated) non-doctrinal religion and historic Christianity, spring from different roots. In particular, I tried to show that Christianity is not a \\"life,\\" as distinguished from a doctrine, and not a life that has doctrine as its changing symbolic expression, but that-exactly the other way around-it is a life founded on a doctrine.\\"    For Machen, under the moniker \\"the church\\" there were two completely different religions.  In the same denomination, even in the same congregation there were worshippers of two entirely separate but not equal religions.  Though they both spoke of God, Christ, salvation, church, heaven, and hell, what they meant by these things were irreconcilably different.  One spoke of a man-centered religion that calls man tobe as moral and he can, while the other is a Christ-centered religion that saves man from God's wrath because he cannot be as moral as he should.    What makes this book so significant is that it sounds hauntingly familar to today's Christian church.  Is today's Evangelical church the step-daughter of early 20th century liberalism?  Read and decided for yourself as Machen defines how the Christ denying liberals of his day defined Christ, sin, salvation, Bible and a host of other doctrines.  It will sound amazingly simular.  Though an easy book to read and understand, it is not for the faint of heart.  If I could get today's pastors and lay church goers to read only one book this year - this would be it.  Enjoy!	2004-09-14
US	52995728	R1Z8BF7LSHJ9SP	0664220282	787830148	Calvin: Institutes of the Christian Religion (2 Volume Set)	Books	5	173	173	N	N	Classic theology - Classic literature	John Calvin's Institutes of the Christian Religion is a monumental work that stands among the greatest works of Christian theology and Western literature.  It ranks with works such as St. Augustine's Confessions and City of God in value, insight and significance.  The Institutes have molded the church's understanding of Christian doctrine for generations and has had untold influence in the development of Western thought in both the religious and civil arenas.<br /><br />Calvin's Institutes represent his life work in teaching theology.  They first appeared in 1536 and went through three significant revisions - each expanding and building upon the previous.  This particular edition represents the final form and of which Calvin was very pleased.<br /><br />Originally written to give basic understanding of Christian doctrine, they became one of the earliest systematic theologies of the Reformed tradition.  Calvin's stated desire is to give the reader the necessary background to read and accurately handle the great doctrines and promises of the Bible.<br /><br />Calvin sent a copy to the King Francis I to encourage him to stop persecuting the Christians who were embracing the gospel as taught by the Reformers.  His basic argument was that if the king understood what these people believed he would stop killing them as heretics but rather see them as faithful adherents of historical Christianity.  Calvin was no lover of novelty and throughout the Institutes copiously cites from the early church fathers and the long history of the Church's understanding of doctrine.<br /><br />This two-volume work is broken down into four books that loosely follow the outline of the Apostle's Creed.  Book 1 concerns knowledge of God.  Book 2 is about Jesus Christ as redeemer.  Book 3 is about the Holy Spirit's role in applying Christ's redeeming graces.  Book 4 is about the church and practice.<br /><br />This particular edition, translated by Battles and edited by McNeil is more expensivethan the one produce by Beverage, but it is worth every extra dollar you spend.  While the church is indebted to Beverage for his labor of love in getting many works by Calvin translated into English, his command of both French and Latin were not as strong as Battles.  They were originally produced in both Latin and French and Battles' work demonstrates his competency in dealing with both languages.  Also, Battles' mastery of Calvin's other writings is reflected in his voluminous footnotes, many of them very helpful to the reader for clarifying, further reading and cross-referencing.  In addition, the indexes in the Battles edition are invaluable not only for searching the Institutes for topics but for gleaming Calvin's understanding of the church fathers.<br /><br />Agree or disagree with Calvin, these are a necessary read for anyone who desires an understanding of the development of Western thought, literature and theology.  They are not only great theology; they represent excellent writing and development of an argument.  They are also highly pastoral and devotional.  They are not like reading a modern systematic theology.  Calvin understood doctrine to be more than theory, but something to mold our understanding of God, ourselves and the world in which we live.  Carefully working through the Institutes is a journey worth taking!<br /><br />Soli Deo Gloria!	2004-09-08
US	52995728	R300HY9WTV33UO	0802881661	787830148	Institutes of the Christian Religion (Two Volumes in One)	Books	5	53	55	N	N	Classic theology - Classic literature	John Calvin's Institutes of the Christian Religion is a monumental work that stands among the greatest works of Christian theology and Western literature.  It ranks with works such as St. Augustine's Confessions and City of God in value, insight and significance.  The Institutes have molded the church's understanding of Christian doctrine for generations and has had untold influence in the development of Western thought in both the religious and civil arenas.      Calvin's Institutes represent his life work in teaching theology.  They first appeared in 1536 and went through three significant revisions - each expanding and building upon the previous.  This particular edition represents the final form and of which Calvin was very pleased.    Originally written to give basic understanding of Christian doctrine, they became one of the earliest systematic theologies of the Reformed tradition.  Calvin's stated desire is to give the reader the necessary background to read and accurately handle the great doctrines and promises of the Bible.    Calvin sent a copy to the King Francis I to encourage him to stop persecuting the Christians who were embracing the gospel as taught by the Reformers.  His basic argument was that if the king understood what these people believed he would stop killing them as heretics but rather see them as faithful adherents of historical Christianity.  Calvin was no lover of novelty and throughout the Institutes copiously sights from the early church fathers and the long history of the Church's understanding of doctrine.    This one-volume work is broken down into four books that loosely follow the outline of the Apostle's Creed.  Book 1 concerns knowledge of God.  Book 2 is about Jesus Christ as redeemer.  Book 3 is about the Holy Spirit's role in applying Christ's redeeming graces.  Book 4 is about the church and practice.    This particular edition, translated by Beverage is not as good as the one by Battles and edited by McNeil.  While the church is indebted to Beverage for his labor of love in getting many works by Calvin translated into English, his command of both French and Latin were not as strong as Battles. They were originally produced in both Latin and French and Battles' work demonstrates his competency in dealing with both languages.  Also, Battles' mastery of Calvin's other writings is reflected in his voluminous footnotes, many of them very helpful to the reader for clarifying, further reading and cross-referencing.  In addition, the indexes in the Battles' edition are invaluable not only for searching the Institutes for topics but for gleaming Calvin's understanding of the church fathers.  If the cost of the Battles translation is prohibative, then you won't go wrong with this Beverage edition.  But for difference between the two editions, the Battles work with worth every extra dollar you pay.    Agree or disagree with Calvin, these are a necessary read for anyone who desires an understanding of the development of Western thought, literature and theology.  They are not only great theology; they represent excellent writing and development of an argument.  They are also highly pastoral and devotional.  They are not like reading a modern systematic theology.  Calvin understood doctrine to be more than theory, but something to mold our understanding of God, ourselves and the world in which we live.  Carefully working through the Institutes is a journey worth taking!    Soli Deo Gloria!	2004-09-08
US	52995728	R10T2QQNDCM1NT	1581346085	481892657	The Passion of Jesus Christ: Fifty Reasons Why He Came to Die	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Helpful explaination of the gospel	The salvation offered in the gospel is so much more than simply the forgiveness of our sins.  Salvation is Jesus Christ also includes our justification, union with Christ indwelling of the Holy Spirit, new nature and many other benefits.  Lewis Sperry Chaefer, the first president of Dallas Seminary, once wrote that there are 33 things that are applied to you the moment you believe all based upon the work of Christ on the cross.  While John Piper is not trying to demonstrate the truthfulness of Chaefer's thesis, his book &quot;The Passion&quot; does much the same thing.  Piper unfolds for the reader many of the salvation benefits won for the believer by Christ death on the cross.  One of the strengths of Piper's book is that he has written it for the average reader with easy vocabulary and short chapters.  With skill and insight, Piper chapter explains why Christ died and how that effects the sinner.  This is a GREAT book for a new believer.  It also is a wonderful tool to use with a non-Christian who is wanting to know more about the gospel.  It could be used as a study on the gospel, meeting weekly to talk through the nature of salvation offered in Christ's gospel.  The only weakness of the book is that some of the chapters can seem redundant but this is only a very minor issue.	2004-07-12
US	52995728	R1PLBPZCNALF89	083081650X	644598495	Knowing God	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Maybe Packer's best book	This book you will find Dr. Packer at his finest.  The book is written for the average church-goer, but there is much here for the pastor or serious Bible student.  Jesus says in John 17:3 that eternal life is knowing the only true God.  Well, this book seeks to set out for the reader who that God is and what He is like.  Packer, with the skill of an artist and the insight of a trained theologian who truly know his subject puts God's attributes on display for the reader.  The Bibical data of God's own self-revelation is laid out for everyone to read and enjoy.  One way to evaluate a book, especially in today's profit driven book market, is how many reprints it goes through.  Already a Christian classic, his is one that people will be reading for generations to come.	2004-07-02
US	52995728	R1BCAQ0PZ5IHAR	0801011213	734501324	Grace Unknown: The Heart of Reformed Theology	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	What is Calvinism - or TULIP	There may be no subject in Christiandom that is more misunderstood by the average church-goer than Calvinism or TULIP.  It is sad to see so many who reject Calvinism based upon such wrong information.  In this book, Dr. Sproul helps the reader understand the key issues of the Reformation and walks you through the so-called 5 points of Calvinism - Total Depravity, Unconditional election, Limited atonement, Irresistable grace and Perseverence of the Saints.  Dr. Sproul not only unfolds the historic meaning of these doctrines but explains how they have been misunderstood.  This book is longer and more developed than his earlier \\"Chosen by God.\\"  In the earlier work he was dealing with election in particular.  In this work he tackles a broader set of related issues.  As always, Dr. Sproul is gracious and instructive even for those who disagree with him.  The positions he rejects, he deals with Christian grace and love.  He has the ability to instruct not only those how agree but also those who disagree.  If you want to know the real meaning of Calvinsim or TULIP - regardless of your accepting it or not, you will profit from reading this book.	2004-07-02
US	52995728	R2H5FQL0RYT4LC	0842313354	136742732	Chosen by God	Books	5	97	99	N	Y	Great Introduction to a difficult issue	Agree or disagree with the thesis of the book, but you will get a clear, straight forward presentation of the doctrine of election.  Dr. Sproul is a churchman.  By this I mean Sproul has a healthy respect for all Christians and it shows in this book.  While he presents the Calvinist view of election, he does so without making light of those who disagree.  If you are interested in knowing what the issuses are, the Biblical bases for election and have your questions answered, you will benefit from this book.  This is true even if you don't agree with the conclusions.  For a deeper presentation on the subject by the same author see &quot;Willing to Believe&quot; and/or &quot;Grace Unknown.&quot;  Dealing with subjects such as election, it is necessary that we have more light than heat.  Dr. Sproul's unique gift to the church is helping take difficult issues and making them understandable by all.  Again, agree or disagree with the author, but if you read this you will be armed with an understanding of the issue that will help you draw informed conclusions.	2004-07-02
US	52995728	R1P7IMZYAFSNXW	083081339X	269600369	Evangelism & the Sovereignty of God	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	God's sovereignty and Man's responsibility	One of the many ways the sovereignty of God is misunderstood is the belief that somehow it destroys evangelism.  Dr. Packer show that this idea is not only false, but that the contrary is true, it is God's sovereignty that empowers evangelism.  Almost all of the usual questions people have concerning this important question, Packer graciously deals with.  The book is both informative and helpful.  He wrote it back in the 1960's and has continued to be in print and go through several printings.  This little work has been helping Christians for some 40 years.  It may not be that last word on the subject but it has been the first book on this subject for many thoughtful Christians.  Agree or diagree, with the author, but you will still find a lot of help and be edified by working through this book.  Its a keeper!	2004-07-02
US	52995728	R2LMQE8123CZOW	1581342888	875810972	Ashamed of the Gospel: When the Church Becomes Like the World	Books	5	2	2	N	N	MacArthur's Most Important Book	John MacArthur is one of today's most influencial pastor-teachers.  In today's church where political correctness reigns supreme Dr. MacArthur is willing to say things that challenge the status quo.  He has written many books but this may be his most important.  Using Spurgeon and the Down Grade controversy of the late 1800 as a background, MacArthur shows how much of today's evangelical church functions as if it is ashamed of the gospel.  It raises questions about the church growth movement and modern evangelistic practices.  MacArthur is not against large churches, being a pastor of a very large ministry in Southern California.  But, MacArthur makes it clear that large churches is not defacto good if truth has been compromised.  This is a book that all pastors, lay leaders and the church in general.	2004-07-01
US	52995728	R3NV5VO3HOHFNQ	1885767269	523548202	Her Hand in Marriage: Biblical Courtship in the Modern World	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Helpful but not the final word	Doug Wilson likes to take his readers where they have never gone before.  He greatest gift to today's church might very well be his willingness to ask the questions that most need to be asked.  While some may disagree with his positions, there is always food for thought.  In the case of this book, there is a high need for some fresh thinking.  All too often today's church-going parents allow there children to pick their dates and future mates in grossly unbiblical ways.  The modern American dating system is about a far away from building Biblical relationships as can be.  Wilson offers an alternative that may or may not be the final answer but is certainly miles ahead of what is the common practice.  But this book ought to be read by parents of the very young.  There is some planning and building to do and its best not to start in a vaccum.  What is best about the book is the emphasis it puts on partents - fathers - to be involved in the lives of their kids as the covenantal head God has called him to be.  This is not an easy fix-it book or one that will give you ten easy steps to date like a pagan while remaining a Christian.  You may have to change much of what you are doing.  Worth the reading and thinking.	2004-06-21
US	52995728	R3W1FI9JP4XMSU	0851514855	202863367	The Religious Affections	Books	5	23	24	N	N	May be the most important book ever written in America	I am amazed how often the great work by America's greatest thinker has insight and application to modern church ministry.  As a pastor, this work ranks among the top works I have read in understanding the gospel, the work of the Holy Spirit, the nature of genuine salvation.  There are three major parts to this work.  The first section Edwards defines what a religious affection is and how it is different from what he calls animal affections.  This distinction is both necessary for understanding his work, but also is a helplful tonic for insight into today's religious movments and modern worship experiences.  In the second section, Edwards develop 12 marks that do not argue for or against the work of the Spirit.  The Great Awakening had many excesses and abuses which Edwards neither support the event nor do they necessarilly take away from it.  What is interesting about this section is that Edwards is saying that these marks ultimately mean nothing.  Yet, most of what is found here is the basis of much of today's evangelical church.  In my first reading I kept finding myself saying but this is what I was taught to be Biblical Christianity.  Edwards was saying if you have this experience or don't have this experience means is not proof one way or the other about your conversion.  In the third section Edwards develops the 12 marks that are truly evidences of the working of the Holy Spirit.  This section is extremly helpful for the modern minister.  With great care and lengthy development of thought, Edwards walks you through the marks of genuine conversion.<br />Edwards is hard to read for those who are just getting started with him.  However, the more you read the easier he becomes.  Don't give up too soon - you will get back 10 fold for all the effort you put in.  The particular edition you are reading about is easy on the pocket book.  If you have limited funds, it is a good way to get started.  However, if you are serious about reading Edwards, don't forget to checkout the Yale editions.  They are very expensive, but the foot notes, extensive introductions, and indexs are worth the extra money.	2004-06-21
US	52995728	RLVXLCRKFCFGC	0800753429	942576028	The Bondage of the Will	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Great Read	Luther wrote extensively about every possible issue facing the church, from theology proper to how to teach children to read so they can use the Bible.  But of all his works, this one was the book he hoped would be read by subsequent generations.  The message of the book really boils down to this - who saves whom.  For Luther, salvation was all about what God did to save sinners who can not even prepare themselves to receive saving grace.  In this work Luther is interacting with Erasmus, a Roman Catholic Humanist (in the good sense of that word) who also wanted reformation of the church.  However, while Luther's reformation focused on the gospel and how a sinner is saved, Erasmus' view was more about moral improvement and abuses in the church.  To the modern reader, Luther might sound harsh and mean spirited.  However, he was writing in a tone that was part of that day.  So don't get turned-off by the language and look to the argument.  There is much for us to learn today by this great master of the past!  Sola Fide!!	2004-06-21
US	52995728	R228SVSFNEFBPL	0802849571	978549390	The Faith of Jesus Christ: The Narrative Substructure of Galatians 3:1-4:11 (The Biblical Resource Series)	Books	5	38	40	N	Y	Saved by faith in Christ or of Christ	This is a highly technical work and you must have some knowledge of New Testament Greek to maximize its benefit.  This is a work that all pastors, and laymen who work with the Greek text should interact.  Hays makes a very cogent argument for certain passages normally translated \\"faith in Christ\\" to be the \\"faith or faithfullness of Christ\\"  that is to say the \\"Subjective Gentive instead of the traditional \\"Objective Genitive.\\"  This position is not new and does have growing support by many serious Biblical language scholars.  Agree or disagree with the author's conclusion, this is the type of exegetical issues that every Bible exeget should at least be conversant.  The text will give you important data and exegetical information for drawing an infomred conclusion.  The text is easy to follow.  This second addition has a new introduction and two appedixes, one by Dr. James Dunn (Romans in Word Bible Commentary) who argues against Hays' thesis, followed by a response by Hays.  These three additions are worth the price of the book.  If Hays is correct, nothing of the cardinal doctrines of Christianity change, but how we might approach the teaching of Romans and Galatians will.  For example, there would be a greater emphasis on preaching both the active and passive obedience of Christ, the federal headship of Christ and a defense against turning faith into a justifying work like Jacob Arminius tried to do.	2004-06-19
US	52995728	R3NUSQ9MES1FY5	1581340796	859443799	Pleasing God in Our Worship (Today's Issues)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	It matters how we worship.	Dr. Robert Godfrey has an unusal gift of making history and theology come alive in ways that the common church-goer can fully appreciate and understand.  This short work is no exception.  While many books on worship are written to justify the author's personal preference, this one seeks to develop a usable Biblical theology of worship.  Many very sincere believers think that apart from calling us to worship, that the Bible doesn't have too much to say about how we ought to praise God.  With short to the point sections, Dr. Godfrey unfolds a rich world of Biblical understanding about the character of New Testament worship.  This book is a great introduction for those just starting to think through the real issues of worship.  A must read for pastors, church leaders and interested laymen that desire to offer up praise and worship that is truly pleasing to God.  You won't be disappointed.	2004-06-17
US	52995728	RF2Z7778KW6RI	0875521797	851750291	With Reverence and Awe: Returning to the Basics of Reformed Worship	Books	5	15	18	N	N	I love this book!	Do you enjoy reading books that get you to thinking about things differently?  Hart and Muether will do this for you on the topic of worship.  Have you ever thought about worship as a congregational conversation with God?  Or how about the relationship between worship and how the Great Commision is to be fulfilled.  So much of today's books on worship are really nothing more than an attempt by the author to defend his/her preferences.  Not this one.  Hart and Muether with grace, insight and sound theology walk you through New Testament worship in the most refreshing way.  I love this book.  I wish I could buy a copy for every pastor and worship leader in the country.  The congregation that captures the vision for worship the these writers put forth will enter into a world of praise rarely realized in today's modern church.  This is a keeper!	2004-06-17
US	52995728	R59DA8RIJ682M	080284345X	809087641	On Being a Theologian of the Cross: Reflections on Luther's Heidelberg Disputation, 1518 (Theology)	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Don't overlook this Gem of a book!	What is the gospel? Luther believed that he had recovered the gospel of Christ that had become hidden by ignorance, medieval theology, and superstition. In 1518, Luther gave one of his (if not his most) carefully stated presentations of the gospel, dealing with the proper understanding of the purpose and power of the law in salvation, the effect of sin on the will of man and the love and power of God in salvation in what is now known as the Heidelberg Disputation. Through the evangelical doctrines put forth by Luther at this disputation, the 16th century Reformation had an unbelievable impact upon all of Western culture and the world and Christianity, as we know it.<br /><br />Gerhard Forde's book is a must read for those unfamiliar with Luther's Heidelberg Disputation, want to know what was at stake in the Reformation, and/or desire a clearer understanding of the gospel.<br /><br />Clearly, there is no more important question to ask then how can a person be reconciled to a holy God. The answer to this question is the heart of Luther's Heidelberg Disputation. Gerhard Forde's book offers many instructive insights and comments that help the reader discover how Luther understood the answer to this question.<br /><br />Following a similar pattern of his better-known \\"95 Theses\\", which was the accepted form for theological debate at the time, Luther carefully develops 28 thesis statements on the gospel (with 12 additional theses on Aristotelian philosophy which he saw as hinderance to rightly understanding the gospel) in the Heidelberg Disputation followed by \\"proofs\\". Each thesis statements builds upon the previous until the whole gospel is laid open before the reader. Forde's contribution is to give the modern reader background and context to properly understand Luther's point and counterpoint to the medieval gospel of merit.<br /><br />This is not a highly technical book. While the pastor or well-studied layman will gain much from Forde's work, it is equally of value for the average reader. While dealing with historical issues, Forde does not get lost in the 16th century but aptly brings Luther's evangelical doctrines into our century for our own spiritual reformation. Forde's makes this great work by Luther reachable for today's churchman.<br /><br />This little work is a great place to begin studying Luther, the reformation and/or the gospel.  Great for Sunday school, Bible study or personal interest.  Also, makes a great gift for your pastor - don't forget him at Christmas time or on his birthday.<br /><br /> Enjoy!  Soli Deo Gloria.e dealing with historical issues, Forde does not get lost in the 16th century but aptly brings Luther's evangelical doctrines into our century for our own spiritual reformation. Forde's makes this great work by Luther reachable for today's churchman.    This little work is a great place to begin studying Luther, the reformation and/or the gospel.  Great for Sunday school, Bible study or personal interest.  Also, makes a great gift for your pastor - don't forget him at Christmas time or on his birthday.     Enjoy!   Soli Deo Gloria.	2004-06-16
US	52995728	R1VMIFD19IYZZY	0875524540	973808748	Commentary of Dr. Zacharias Ursinus on the Heidelberg Catechism	Books	5	18	21	N	Y	One for the ages	Zacharias Ursinus was one of the writers of the Heidelberg Catechism. This book is his own commentary on this classic work of reformational theology. There may be no finer catechism ever produced for its sound theology and warm practical application of Biblical truth. Now you can learn from the master himself and how he understood the very doctrines of the catechism. I would encourage pastors to use this book for adult Sunday school classes, fathers to use it family devotions and home worship times and anyone who seeks to have a better understanding of the vital life changing truths of the Bible.<br />While the catechism itself is warm and flowing, Ursinus' commentary is stiff, long and sometimes difficult. However, it is worth every once of effort put in. This is a book you will keep and go back to time and time again. <br />Someone once said that digging holes is harder than raking leafs. But when you rake leafs, all you get is leafs. When you dig holes you might find buried treasure. Ursinus's commentary of the great catechism maybe like digging holes for some, but gold will be found by all who will dig. Dig long and dig deep.	2001-09-05
US	52995728	R2R17ZOTJN0CIZ	1576737330	89800612	The Prayer of Jabez:  Breaking Through to the Blessed Life	Books	1	2	3	N	N	Douglas VanderMeulen	I would rate this book a zero if the scale allowed. This book is a perfect example of what is wrong with the church in America today. It isn't about right thinking, truth and trusting in God to be the source of our every need. The author says in the preface that he is offering you a prayer that God always answers. Is this true? No. In the gospel of Luke chapter 11 the disciples of Jesus asked Him to teach the how to pray. So He did. In doing so He said &quot;When you pray, say....&quot; and He gives what has long been called the Lord's prayer. Why didn't Jesus teach His disciples the prayer of Jabez? Maybe things would have gone much better for the ministry of Jesus and the apostles? Or maybe Wilkinson knows something that Jesus didn't know? Nah! Skip this book and move on one of the many classic books on prayer that have been written such as The Lord's Prayer by Thomas Watson, published by Banner of Truth, or A Call to Spiritual Reformation by D A Carson, published by Baker Books.  Both of these books are worth the reading and the money and you will want to keep them in your library for years.  They will never be outdated.  The Prayer of Jabez will be available at your local yard sale next year for only .25	2001-08-31
US	52995728	R1DTCLA1ZONLBK	0521342090	129768074	Vindiciae, contra tyrannos: or, Concerning the Legitimate Power of a Prince over the People, and of the People over a Prince (Cambridge Texts in the History)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Understanding a Biblical view of standing against tyranny	This book was even more influencial than Thomas Payne's Common Sense, in  molding the American mind and preparing it for the war for independence.   Much of our Declaration of Independence reflects its wisdom and thought.   Written by a French Huguenot to give Biblical and civil justification for fighting against a government that was illegally killing its own people  during the relgious wars on France between  1540s-late 1700.    The author assumes a Christian worldview that believes that all governing authorities have been established by God.  It seeks to answer the question, \\"When is it justifible to reject the governing authority established by God without rebelling against Him\\"?  A must  reading for those who want to understand religious and political history of  Europe, or want to better understand the Biblical justification sought by  our own founding fathers in their fight for independence.  A must read!	2000-08-31
