US	52994232	R2P25WGPNJJVR8	0767903579	648018356	Falling Leaves: The Memoir of an Unwanted Chinese Daughter	Books	3	12	17	N	Y	Cathartic Spilling of an Unhappy Life	I first read Adeline Yen Mah's book for children, \\"Chinese Cinderella\\" and wanted to find out the ending.  Yes Cinderella did find her prince, and he came from a poor family with a widowed mother, but brothers and sisters that cared for each other and the family, putting him, the youngest through school after their single mother was crippled from a massive stroke.  Contrast this to Adeline's family who was financially very wealthy but devoid of love.  Adeline was unwanted as a child, and very much unfavored.  The children's book left me with the impression that she had finally escaped the clutches of her parents when she was sent to school in England.  But this book shows that no matter where she went, how successful she was, she still fell into the clutches of her family's manipulations, and like a moth attracted to a burning lightbulb, she keeps getting burned over and over again.<br /><br />Woven inside the story of her family, are glimpses into 20th century China, from the Manchurian days of foot-binding and pigtails, to World War II and later the Communist takeover.  Half of Adeline's family makes it to Hong Kong and the other half stayed back in China.  These insights are valuable in that they do provide a point of view towards the modern history of China, from an upper class perspective, enclosed in the French concession.  The menu of their ordinary dinner reads like a 5 star restaurant.<br /><br />Adeline's search for love and acceptance from her dysfunctional family is the main theme of the book.  I hope writing it was cathartic for her, and that she can say like her brother, after all is done, \\"suan le\\".  Because she really does need to let it all go.  She is a successful doctor with a happy marriage.  She should really try to forgive her siblings and dead parents.  Ironically one of her chapters is entitled \\"Jia Chou Bu Ke Wai Yang\\", Family Ugliness Should Never be Aired in Public.  Yet she does exactly that.  Even though she disguised her siblings' names it will be hard to be reconciled with them.  Her relationship with her stepmother is especially strange because even though her stepmother was abusive towards her, she seemed determined to ingratiate herself with her stepmother, especially in the last days when her stepmother had a terminal illness.  She was sorely disappointed to find out that she had been left off her stepmother's will, and that a double-crossing sister had been remembered.  Perhaps she will find comfort in knowing that her father was proud of her.  But ultimately, in order to cast off the mantle of perpetual victimhood, she needs to let it all go.  Throughout this book I find that the characters have no real peace, although they follow religious rituals.  I pray that Adeline will find the Saviour she desperately needs who will forgive her sin, give her the love she seeks, and the ability to forgive people who have wronged her.  Only then will she find real peace and joy as well as the acceptance that she craves.<br /><br />The only character in this book that is actually admirable is ironically her stepsister, Susan, who was also abused and ultimately disinherited by her own flesh-and-blood mother.  She had the courage and gumption to tell her mother that she would not be mistreated anymore, and did not come groveling back when threatened with disinheritance.  I'm willing to bet that had the parents not been so incredibly wealthy, none of the other children would have kowtowed to them the way they did.  But as it is, the legacy of poison has spread to yet another generation upon the reading of the stepmother's will.it will be hard to be reconciled with them.  Her relationship with her stepmother is especially strange because even though her stepmother was abusive towards her, she seemed determined to ingratiate herself with her stepmother, especially in the last days when her stepmother had a terminal illness.  She was sorely disappointed to find out that she had been left off her stepmother's will, and that a double-crossing sister had been remembered.  Perhaps she will find comfort in knowing that her father was proud of her.  But ultimately, in order to cast off the mantle of perpetual victimhood, she needs to let it all go.  Throughout this book I find that the characters have no real peace, although they follow religious rituals.  I pray that Adeline will find the Saviour she desperately needs who will forgive her sin, give her the love she seeks, and the ability to forgive people who have wronged her.  Only then will she find real peace and joy as well as the acceptance that she craves.<br /><br />The only character in this book that is actually admirable is ironically her stepsister, Susan, who was also abused and ultimately disinherited by her own flesh-and-blood mother.  She had the courage and gumption to tell her mother that she would not be mistreated anymore, and did not come groveling back when threatened with disinheritance.  I'm willing to bet that had the parents not been so incredibly wealthy, none of the other children would have kowtowed to them the way they did.  But as it is, the legacy of poison has spread to yet another generation upon the reading of the stepmother's will.	2005-09-27
US	52994232	RSR6DX4XNHJQ	0852344600	566616659	Does God Believe in Atheists	Books	4	25	31	N	N	Better to ask Do Atheists believe in God?	Not by definition, but the bigger question is whether there are any true atheists.  John Blanchard goes through the entire atheist perspective from ancient Greek philosophers, to European thought leaders like Kant, Hegel, Nietzsche, and then existentialists like Sartre and Camus.  He shows that although these people have a basically atheistic worldview, they all have some sort of basic beliefs that cannot be \\"proven\\" by the rational thought process that they so deify.  Blanchard shows that the atheistic position is basically untenable, and contradictory.  If there is no external point of reference, how can anyone make sense of what is real and what is not real with just their observations and cogitations.  And of course there is the famous conundrum that to be a true atheist you must be sure and know that nowhere, at no place, at no time, has there ever been, exists, or will be any God.  But to know that, he'd have to have infinite knowledge, which would mean he is a god!<br /><br />Although I don't think this book will appeal to any atheists, I do challenge any openminded atheist to read through this book and convince himself that he could possibly know that there is no God.<br /><br />For a Christian, this book is excellent in that it introduces you to all of the different thinkings of the world, and how people have tried to philosophize a reality without God.  By the time you are done with this book, you will never again think that evolution or creation by random chance (for example) has even one leg to stand on.  A long read, but very helpful, especially since we have been exposed to many atheistic philosophies without knowing what they were based on.	2005-09-23
US	52994232	RJXKL9C6D99C1	0440228654	620261018	Chinese Cinderella: The True Story of an Unwanted Daughter	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Story of Courage and Triumph	Adeline Yen Mah's childhood was horrible, and she endured emotional abuse from her stepmother and siblings and neglect from her wealthy banker father.  Even though she suffered through extraordinary pain from as far back as she could remember, she still did well in school, excelled in her studies and was popular with her classmates.  Thanks to her Aunt Baba who cherished her and took care of her when her mother died of childbirth fever, and her grandfather who admired her and gave her encouragement to succeed, Adeline had the support and love and determination to rise above her circumstances.  This book is inspiring for children to know that no matter what your environment, or the emotional hurts that others throw at you, you can rise above them by keeping yourself in school, and prove to everyone that you can succeed.  Even though large sections of this book is sad and riddled with stories of abuse and neglect, the book at least ends happily.  Adeline wins a writing contest that convinces her father to send her to England to study medicine.<br /><br />An interesting historical note is that there is a story of a Chinese Cinderella that predates that of the Italian story by 1000 years.  Perhaps Marco Polo brought this story back from China?  Who knows?	2005-09-11
US	52994232	RWDO8NFPSNTTU	0198166559	721693971	Violin Fraud: Deception, Forgery, Theft, and Lawsuits in England and America	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	An Eye-Opener into the Violin Business	This book is a fascinating read for anyone not well-versed in the customs of the violin world.  The history of violin fraud, misrepresentation and false labeling is given with illustrations to famous violins, dealers and makers.  Violin theft is also covered, as well as the differences between English common law, and that of the Germanic laws that are lenient to bona fide buyers of stolen goods.  There is also the fascinating stories of famous violin legal cases, including the George Chanot civil case, the Balfour Strad and the entire account of the Gibson/ex Huberman Strad that was stolen in the 1920s, and how it was recovered.  More mundane issues like teacher commissions/kickbacks are also covered as well as misrepresentation, disparage/defamation of other makers, shops.  It is written by lawyers and even though there is a lot of technical discussion of the law, it reads well.  What is eye-opening is that many makers, dealers, teachers and shops may be unaware what they are legally responsible for.  For example, if someone walks into your store and asks you what a certain violin he inherited was worth, you cannot just give him a lowball price because in America there is a law against nondisclosure of facts (pp 120-123) if the defendant has exclusive knowledge of material facts not known or reasonably accessible to the plaintiff (person who inherited an instrument and knows nothing).  Teachers (Chapter 16) are supposed to disclose if they have a commission or kickback relationship with a shop.  What is shocking is that a reader who is well-informed on how the violin world operates, will see that many of the actions and premises that world function on may not be supported in law. This ranges on issues of commissions, defamation, misrepresentation, nondisclosure to the legal standing of historical certificates.  Negligent misrepresentation or even an incorrect 'opinion' may expose one for a claim of misrepresentation, hence all the disclaimers on violin certificates..	2005-08-15
US	52994232	RW0H5J2NW9BAE	0883685833	965520136	Journey to Hell	Books	5	17	18	N	Y	The Reverse Pilgrim's Progress - Burning Issues	Mr. Badman is just plain BAD.  Little sins in little children get magnified into bigger and worse sins.  Mr. Badman truly has every bad trait anyone could ever have.  He started with lying and stealing, graduated into drinking, cheating and adultery, and then becomes a first-class hypocrite to snag himself a wealthy Christian woman for marriage.  While he was sick, he cried out in false repentance only to regress as soon as he was getting well.  The saddest and most touching part of the book is the death of his Christian wife and her exhortations to him and their unsaved children.  From then on, it's all downhill, as Mr. Badman's seared conscience admits no light, and God gives him up to his destruction.  This book has everything NOT to do if you don't want to end up like Mr. Badman.  It is also very relevant with the issues of today, drunk \\"driving\\", planned \\"parenthood\\", and bankruptcy and fraud.  Hot summertime reading.	2004-08-17
US	52994232	R2NEHPKVCVBC12	0688067670	598548533	The One Minute Manager Meets The Monkey	Books	5	13	15	N	N	How to delegate but not abdicate	Just as when parents allow a child to get a pet, then end up changing the hamster papers, walking the dog at midnight in a thunderstorm, and taking out the kitty litter; so do some managers spend all their time taking care of their employee's &quot;monkeys&quot;. This book uses humor to teach managers the art of delegation, handing the monkeys back to their owners and giving them the responsibility of caring and feeding. But that is not all. Most managers will profit greatly by reading the techniques of monkey hand-off. This is especially true if you've ever been accused of micro-management. However some managers are great at the handing off the monkeys and then forget to followup on their condition. This book also talks about follow-up check-ups and insurance policies to make sure that monkeys are healthy. As employees become better and better monkey tenders, then less follow-up and insurance is needed. However a manager does need to continue periodic check-ups because he is ultimately responsible for the project.	2004-08-04
US	52994232	R1UNCN4BFYERTR	0140432809	977170135	Grace Abounding to the Chief of Sinners: Or Brief Faithful Relation Exceeding Mercy God Christ his Poor Servant John (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	143	145	N	N	There's hope for you too in God's Abounding Grace	A lot of us are familiar with John Bunyan as the author of The Pilgrim's Progress, whose influence in Christendom is second to the Bible. Bunyan was a preacher, a prolific writer and a shining saint for God. However when we read this book we find out that he was an atheist and infidel in his youth, enjoying sin and rebellious towards God. Inwardly he suffered from tormented nightmares of demons and judgment, but outwardly he went on pretty much as any other sinner, taking delight in sin and being the ringleader of mischief. Several times he nearly lost his life, and even though there were several close calls, still he did not turn to God. After his marriage, he participated in religious activities, went through the motions of attending church and generally lived as he pleased, each time successfully shrugging off pangs of guilt. One day, after church, while playing a sport, a voice seemed to call out to him from heaven to his soul, which said, &quot;Wilt thou leave thy sins and go to heaven, or have thy sins and go to hell?&quot; Bunyan was convinced it was the Lord Jesus looking down on him in displeasure. What follows details his sinking into despair, his desparate attempts at working his way into God's good graces, and his struggles with temptation and doubt. In a strange sort of way, it is comforting to read about Bunyan's struggles and identify with them because you can see how he turned out so greatly used by God. He rationalized, made excuses and tried every way to justify himself. Bunyan did not try to gloss over his motivations but gave an honest account of his struggles from avowed sinner, to religious hypocrite before he was finally converted. He describes in great detail his doubts and despair, his yearning to be converted to Jesus Christ, and then being assured of his salvation by reading the Bible and praying. Reading this book will help you realize how God's grace can abound and save even the most wretched of sinners and gives us abounding hope./>	2004-08-04
US	52994232	R1H9VOH20Y4EBN	0842332359	280076502	Glorious Appearing: The End of Days (Left Behind #12)	Books	5	2	4	N	Y	Hard not to get carried away with the Glorious Appearing	This is what every believer has been waiting for, the Glorious Appearing of Jesus, the King, the Saviour.  The authors do a pretty good job of imagining the leading up of the appearance, as well as the events that transpire by using the Scriptures.  I am glad that they only had Jesus speak words out of the Bible, and did not make up anything for Him to speak.  They weave several chapters and books of prophecy together to come up with a plausible transpiring of the events, such as the sign of the Son of Man, the army of saints following Jesus, and the salvation of the remnant, as well as everyone's personal interview with their Saviour.  Of course this will probably not be the way it'll actually happen, since God's ways are not our ways, but it is a plausible speculation and fun to read.<br />Of course the Antichrist and False Prophet are schlocky characters and buffoonish, and there had to be enough hijinks and gross-outs to keep the adolescent audience in hoots and hollers.  But the appearance of Lucifer was bone-chilling as he brags about what he aspires to.<br />And since the focus is mostly on Jesus (where it should be), the reader who is interested in the characters is left wondering why Chang is more interested in Naomi than in reuniting with his parents (who got saved and martyred/beheaded), and other little details like that.  But who cares?  There will be sequel after sequel, or at least one showing the Great White Throne judgement where the Antichrist's cabinet members (Viv Ivins, etc.) will be judged.  Also, there is likely to be a prequel, to show more about Rayford's first wife Irene and the saints who were raptured.  So, yes, it is commercial and money-making.  But also, there is a lot of scripture quoted.  I only wish that they had little book/chapter references in the margin for those who want to look it up.  It is more than the book of Revelations, for example, there are parts from Isaiah, Ezekiel, Daniel, etc.  But then, I'm sure the authors have a study series or will have, for those who are so inclined.study series or will have, for those who are so inclined.	2004-06-07
US	52994232	R2QPLMVANUAB7S	0486239179	821825006	Violin Playing As I Teach It (Dover Books on Music)	Books	5	31	33	N	Y	Witty, opinionated, and insightful	This little gem of a book reads like a tip book, expose, soapbox, gossip column and memoir.  Auer is witty and funny, sometimes he had me laughing in stitches.  For example, his description of chronic vibrato, \\"this physical evil generally may be traced to a group of sick or ailing nerves, hitherto undiscovered.\\"  Another diatribe on the lack of standards for violin teachers: \\"Many are indeed desirous of doing their best, but alas, having themselves been ill-taught, they spread the poison of their own ignorance broadcast, a plague which carries off many hapless innocents, victims of their pernicious teaching methods.\\"<br />Auer was in the position to learn from, observe, and teach some of the best violinists of the last two centuries.  He studied with Jacob Dont in Vienna and Joachim in Hanover, was a contemporary of Davidov, Wieniawski, Seidel, Wilhelmj, Sarasate, von Bulow, and taught Elman, Zimbalist, and Jascha Heifetz.  Who would have known that Joachim had such stage fright, or that Mischa Elman almost died of coal-gas fumes the night before his debut?<br />The book has nice tips on fingering, bowing and tone production.  He also devotes a chapter to nuance, the soul of interpretation and phrasing and another chapter to Style, where he wisely suggests that each generation interprets the music to suit the style of that era.  No one really knows how Bach played baroque music, and no one can claim to be authentic to a time period that has long since passed away.  \\"The musical spirit of Bach transcends all narrow limitations of period, and the artist of today who truly enters into this spirit will play Bach as he should be played, and will play Bach better because he will play him in the interpretative spirit of our own generation, not that of 1720.\\"  He deplores the blind upholders of \\"tradition\\" and insists that the violinist must form his own style, not just copy that of another.<br />On the famous shoulder-rest controversy, Auer comes down strictly on the \\"no-shoulder-rest\\" school claiming that it makes the player lose a third of the whole body of tone.  One look at a picture of Auer playing the violin and you can see why his physique is suited to no-shoulder-rest.  He has no neck, a protruding chin, and a squat frame upon which he can rest the violin on his chest, with relatively short arms, so he can hold the instrument directly in front of him.  He also insists that you hold the violin as high as possible, especially when playing on the G string.  You can see the results with Jascha Heifetz, who holds his violin up high and uses no shoulder rest.  Of course, men of those days had padded shoulders on their suits and tuxedos, so the violin fit right up there.<br />This book is of interest in learning about violin pedagogy as taught in the Russian conservatories at the turn of the last century.  And has valuable tips and technical aids.  However, it does not substitute for a good teacher.  And Auer would wholeheartedly agree, especially for beginners: \\"There is no instrument whose absolute mastery at a later period presupposes such meticulous care and exactitude in the initial stages of study as does the violin.\\"o-shoulder-rest\\" school claiming that it makes the player lose a third of the whole body of tone.  One look at a picture of Auer playing the violin and you can see why his physique is suited to no-shoulder-rest.  He has no neck, a protruding chin, and a squat frame upon which he can rest the violin on his chest, with relatively short arms, so he can hold the instrument directly in front of him.  He also insists that you hold the violin as high as possible, especially when playing on the G string.  You can see the results with Jascha Heifetz, who holds his violin up high and uses no shoulder rest.  Of course, men of those days had padded shoulders on their suits and tuxedos, so the violin fit right up there.<br />This book is of interest in learning about violin pedagogy as taught in the Russian conservatories at the turn of the last century.  And has valuable tips and technical aids.  However, it does not substitute for a good teacher.  And Auer would wholeheartedly agree, especially for beginners: \\"There is no instrument whose absolute mastery at a later period presupposes such meticulous care and exactitude in the initial stages of study as does the violin.\\"	2004-03-22
US	52994232	RHF3GUQ2NYBCO	0801060044	194931048	The Genesis Record: A Scientific and Devotional Commentary on the Book of Beginnings	Books	4	83	88	N	N	Very enlightening commentary on the ENTIRE book of Genesis	You'd think that this book only covered the first 2 chapters of Genesis from reading the reviews.  Debating aside, I think everyone ought to read the book of Genesis all the way through.  It is truly a book of beginnings, and the human experience.  There are many interesting explanations presented here, such as the \\"closing signatures\\" of each section \\"these are the generations of &lt;>\\" fill in the person who wrote that portion.  There is the novel explanation of Abraham and Sarah's bodies being miraculously rejuvenated back to youth to have Isaac, instead of the usual picture of two elderly parents.  Then there is a long section on Jacob and an attempt at a scientific explanation of the spotted/speckled recessive traits and the striped rods being some kind of cattle and sheep aphrodisiac.  The section on Joseph is rich and full of interest, with a detailed analysis of the brothers' two trips to Egypt and how Joseph's harsh questioning and tests brings them to repentance and finally reconciliation.  So there is a lot to this book than just the 6 days of creation, if people would read further, they'd find many interesting interpretations to help them gain a better understanding of the events in Genesis and hence the Bible.<br />Morris does tend to explain away some of the doubtful behavior of the main characters which differs from other commentaries.  For example, he excuses Jacob and Rebecca's deception on Isaac as saying that perhaps they thought to save his life, for had he blessed Esau against God's will, maybe there would be repercussions.  He also explains Rachel's theft of her father's idols as perhaps it was a way for her to lay claim to any inheritance she felt was due.  Meanwhile Dr. J. Vernon McGee tells it like it is in his \\"Chicken's Come Home to Roost\\" sermon series where he talks about Jacob's trickery being revisited on him at Uncle Laban's School of Hard Knocks.  Dr. McGee doesn't excuse Jacob's behavior nor put on a false-pious veneer.  But rather shows how God works with Jacob to bring him into spiritual maturity, by teaching him lessons.<br />Highly recommended, if I got through this book by reading a little every day on the Stairmaster, you can too.hows how God works with Jacob to bring him into spiritual maturity, by teaching him lessons.<br />Highly recommended, if I got through this book by reading a little every day on the Stairmaster, you can too.	2004-01-07
US	52994232	R2LQN7G9TOS8J8	0634004247	483614292	Gospel's Greatest (Fake Books)	Books	4	39	40	N	Y	Comprehensive mixture of hymns, spirituals, modern	This fake book has a very comprehensive listing of old time hymns, traditional spirituals, gospel songs of the past century and some contemporary praise songs.  The type-face is small typical of fake books, and songs are crammed in.  Lyrics and verses are included, as well as the chords.  There is also a reference of guitar chord finger patterns at the end of the book.  The entire book lays flat, having the plastic tabbed binding.  Songs are listed alphabetically making them easy to find.  Very nice reference, and songbook for all &quot;C&quot; instruments, as well as keyboards, vocals and guitar.	2003-12-17
US	52994232	R2UWTFYWDOTOP8	0634047361	2197823	The Easy Hymn Fake Book: Over 150 Hymns in the Key of "C"	Books	4	68	68	N	Y	Perfect for Beginners in Violin and other &quot;C&quot; instruments	This fake book has all of your favorite hymns in the key of &quot;C&quot;, with easy-to-read large music notation, simplified chords and includes all of the verses for sing along.  It is perfect for beginners and has a binding that will lay flat on the music stand.  All the well-known verses (including multiple) are included under the notes.  Finally, unlike other fakebooks that try to crowd several songs together in one page, or split them between pages, this book fits one song per page with large readable type.	2003-12-17
US	52994232	R1PSDHSFH12F1I	0802430791	547947246	If I Perish	Books	5	89	89	N	Y	Awe Inspiring Story of an Incredible Woman	Verse 4:16 in the book of Esther provides the backdrop of a modern-day Esther who went to Japan to warn the Japanese against their idol/shrine worship.  She had a heart for the Japanese people to bring them to a knowledge of Jesus Christ, but was instead thrown into prison because she refused to worship idols.  Like a modern-day Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, she refused to bow to the shrine worship and was fully prepared to die.  She lived by faith, prayer and leaning on Jesus during her long ordeal, and even though she was starved and tortured and ill, as it was for Daniel in the lion's den, God stopped the mouths and hands of her worse enemies in miraculous ways.  She became a testimony to those in the prison and won many to Christ, from crazed murderers, to cruel prison guards, to a former geisha who became a missionary in the mountains.  There were many moments of despair and longing for the deliverance of death, and Esther bemoans her weakness and hunger, and this all shows that she is weak, but that God is strong, with His strength made perfect through our weaknesses.  All her trials and tribulations showed her how Jesus is faithful and never left her and finally delivered her when she was freed at the end of the war and escaped the Communists to South Korea.  Her mother was a remarkable person, having led Esther to the LORD and kept her faith providing Esther with encouragement and prayer.  This book will strengthen your faith and encourage you also when things get tough and you learn to lean on the everlasting arms.  It is also hard to put down and my daughter read it all the way through in a day.	2003-11-25
US	52994232	R1ZDHWLN76RNAN	0793513294	553918808	Classical Fake Book: Over 850 Classical Themes and Melodies in the Original Keys	Books	5	45	46	N	Y	Great Reference and source book for music students	This book is very comprehensive, and contains most of the major works of classical music.  Since it is a fake book, it does not contain the complete score, but only the melody line with chords marked above the notes.  The words/lyrics are included for the vocals, and double-stops where it appears in the original.  Also, unlike some other fake books, the compositions appear in their original key.  It is both an excellent reference to music appreciation students, concert goers and instrumental students as well as a source of material for beginning music students.  Many of the themes can be used in student recitals.<br />The book is plastic tabbed bound, but since it is over 600 pages long it is somewhat difficult to get the pages placed flatly.  It also does not feel like it would be that durable because both the plastic tabs may break, or the slots on the pages would easily be torn. The size of the notes is also smaller than most music books.  But for the price paid, this book gives good value as there are over 850 classical themes and melodies in one place.	2003-11-15
US	52994232	R3DJN94HCFU7CM	0449909786	582556500	How Men Think: The Seven Essential Rules for Making It in a Man's World	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Generally useful but slightly out of date	Psychologist Mendell does a credible job in emphasizing the differences between how men interact with each other and how women interact.  Her basic premise is that men view everything as a game, with set rules, with winners and losers, but do not take things personally.  Women, on the other hand, are more interested in relationship building and concerned about other people's feelings rather than the scorecard.  Since business is usually run by men, in order to succeed you must play by men's rules.  Based on my observations over 25 years, I'd say that her theory was definitely true 20-25 years ago, when men were mostly in charge in the workplace, and the women were mostly secretaries and clerks.  Back then, men did not even fill out their own timecards, but had their secretaries do it.  Secretaries answered phone calls from the men's wives, and filled out grocery lists for them.  The workplace was definitely more military like, with a lot of retired military men up the ranks.  Women were definitely outside the norm, and a smart woman engineer was looked on with much suspicion and ridicule.  However as technology advanced, voice mail and word processing systems took over the roles of secretaries, and men had to actually learn to type (gasp), and women became more confident and moved up the ranks, the business culture has changed to be more collaborative, emphasizing teamwork, interpersonal relationships, 360 degree assessments, and cross-functional horizontal teaming relationships.  Suddenly, relationships mattered, whether between supplier and customer, employee and manager, engineering and marketing.  Even the executives want to seem approachable, friendly and caring.  So I don't see as much the harrassment of women, putdowns, feminizing, scare tactics and hostility as I did 20 years ago.  Are the rules still tilted towards men's style?  Yes, but not as much as Mendell suggests.  Today, a lot of the collaborative behavior attributed to women is valued in the organization.  While it is true that men still hold most of the top positions, and take most of the credit, the types of men that excel are not the old-line militaristic linebacker types, but ones that have figured out how to be diplomatic, concerned, and effective without resorting to caveman techniques.ation.  While it is true that men still hold most of the top positions, and take most of the credit, the types of men that excel are not the old-line militaristic linebacker types, but ones that have figured out how to be diplomatic, concerned, and effective without resorting to caveman techniques.	2003-11-02
US	52994232	R1I7H5QXOMQI8	0439405572	433992227	The Capture (Guardians of Ga'hoole, Book 1)	Books	4	24	30	N	N	Exciting Adventure and Mystery about Owls	Young owlets are being snatched from their nests, eggs are disappearing.  Something sinister is going on in the Owl Kingdoms.  This first book in a series tells of how young Soren a barn owl, and Gylfie, a diminutive elf owl, survive the rigors and brainwashing of the evil St. Aegolius Academy.  They band together with two other orphans and a blind snake in search of their families, and the Great Ga'Hoole Tree, a legend where ancient knights on silent wings went to do battle against evil and perform deeds of greatness.  But first they have to fight their evil jailors who were out to attack other helpless owlets.  At the end of the first book they set off \\"To Ga'Hoole!\\".  And the reader is hooked and must get \\"The Journey\\" which is book #2.	2003-10-31
US	52994232	R3GL70SVCVPKW1	0825424852	460819211	Studies in Revelation (M.R. De Haan Classic Library)	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	A Special Blessing is Promised to those who read Revelations	Did you know that Revelations is the only book in the Bible where God has promised the one who studies it a special blessing?  Revelations is filled with promises for the redeemed in Christ, and it is the Revelation of the Resurrected Christ in all His Glory.  It also gives you the best description of Christ as He appears today, as well as details of the New Jerusalem.  Dr. DeHaan's commentary on Revelations has made the study of Revelations understandable, optimistic, and urgent.  Each chapter covers a topic in the order given starting with the Introduction and History of the Churches to the Final Judgment and Eternity.  Dr. DeHaan explains several important concepts such as the Judgment Seat of Christ, the Two Resurrections, The Wedding of the Lamb, the Rapture of the Church and the Great White Throne Judgment.  At the end of every chapter he makes a plea to the unbeliever to receive Christ and the believer to get the Gospel out due to the urgency to reach the lost.  Warning: if you read this book and study Revelations and you are still lost, you will have no excuse.  However if you study it and believe on the Lord Jesus Christ you will get a special blessing.  There is no reason to be fearful of this book and Dr. DeHaan says the best policy is to interpret it literally.  If you do, it is a book of great joy and wonderful promises, concluding with a gracious invitation to &quot;Come! Come! Come!&quot; to the Lord Jesus Christ for salvation before it is too late and the day of mercy ends forever.	2003-10-25
US	52994232	R3UHWQXXVC99R0	0440414806	159975375	Holes	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Delightful tale about an old family curse & buried treasure	This book is a delightful tale about a boy, a curse, some stinky shoes, and a treasure.  Stanley (the protagonist) is sent to a youth camp where to build character the inmates have to dig a round 5 ft by ft deep hole every day of their incarceration.  Stanley thinks he is there because of an old family curse involving his pig stealing great great grandfather who forgot to pay off the fortuneteller Madame Zeroni for her advice before coming to America.  Soon a plot develops where Stanley befriends the great great great great grandson of Madame Zeroni and teaches him to read.  Together they discover the secret that the Warden wants the boys to find.  Stanley breaks the curse, and without giving away the ending, the Warden and Mr. Sir (the overseer) get their just desserts.<br />At the end, everything is explained, the curse is broken, and everyone is happy, including Stanley's inventor father, his grumpy grandfather, and Madame Zeroni's great great great grandson.<br />This book is nicely written for the 5th grade crowd, and an adventure that will keep you turning page after page.  Highly recommended.	2003-10-11
US	52994232	RMIJ2XCU3BKF8	1576736016	132961088	Six Hours One Friday: Anchoring to the Power of the Cross (Chronicles of the Cross)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	The Meaning of Life as seen from the Cross	In six hours Jesus accomplished his redemptive work and in so doing brought meaning to man's life.  Max Lucado weaves contemporary stories together with Biblical events to bring a fresh and multi-faceted view of how people were affected by what Jesus did.  There's the prodigal son, the woman caught in adultery, the widow of Nain, Lazarus, the thief at the cross among others.  All saw new meaning to life, experienced forgiveness from God, and the promise of resurrection and eternal life when they came to the Saviour.  The last chapter was the most touching and described the final glance as Max's dad lay dying, paralleling it with the final look by the centurion as Jesus died on the cross.<br />This book is inspiring and explains the anchor points that you should hold onto when life's hurricanes hit.  That basically Jesus has done it all for you on the cross, and that your life is not futile, your failures are not fatal, and your death is not final.  Jesus has purchased you with His Blood, and promises you forgiveness of sins if you come to him, and not only that, but eternal life.  Therefore anchor your soul to the Rock of Salvation and He will hold onto you throughout life's storms.	2003-09-18
US	52994232	R9UNC6N8BVG31	0849917492	181376833	Paul: A Man of Grace and Grit (Great Lives from God's Word, Volume 6)	Books	5	35	36	N	N	Practical Applications and Insight from the Life of Paul	Charles Swindoll presents not just a biography of Paul, but also gives practical examples and applications of the principles that guided Paul's life so that the reader can also examine his or her own life, and apply these principles.  Paul is introduced as a brutal persecutor and enemy of Christ.  Yet by Grace he was redeemed and became the gentle apostle.  This shows that no matter how dark our past is, how wretched we are, we are not outside the reach of God's wonderful and amazing grace.  No one is beyond hope and no matter what you've done you can have a new beginning in Christ.  Swindoll also tells of the seemingly insignificant people in Paul's life, the Ananias who was called to go to Paul while he was blinded, and the unnamed disciples who helped him escape Damascus in a basket, Aquila and Priscilla, two tentmakers who shared Paul's trade as he made his way on his journeys.  Each of these people are part of the fabric of God's plan and purpose making a difference in someone else's life.  God can use the most humble, broken vessels and do great things with them because it is His work and purpose.  Therefore a lesson is that you never know whether the little act you did had a place in a much larger purpose, such as lowering Paul over a wall in the basket resulting in bringing the Gospel to the Gentiles and to the uttermost parts of the world.  Be faithful in the little things and let God work the big picture.<br />These and other examples, such as leadership, contentment, facing extreme circumstances, leaning on God's strength, etc., can all be gleaned out of Paul's life.  Charles Swindoll does a wonderful job of weaving the biography with these insights.  The best way to read this book is alongside your Bible.  Before you're done with this book, you'd also be through the book of Acts, parts of each epistle, and end with 2nd Timothy, as you'll appreciate what was going through Paul's heart as he is waiting for his homecoming.<br />4:6 For I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand.<br />4:7 I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith:<br />From a self-righteous persecutor to the humble apostle, Paul's life shows how anyone can be redeemed by grace, and fight the good fight through grit, where God's strength is made perfect in our weakness.<br />2nd Corinthians 12:9 My grace is sufficient for thee: for my strength is made perfect in weakness.e offered, and the time of my departure is at hand.<BR>4:7 I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith:<br />From a self-righteous persecutor to the humble apostle, Paul's life shows how anyone can be redeemed by grace, and fight the good fight through grit, where God's strength is made perfect in our weakness.<br />2nd Corinthians 12:9 My grace is sufficient for thee: for my strength is made perfect in weakness.	2003-09-07
US	52994232	R2UT7WG698ARKO	0825424771	609660791	Studies in Galatians (M. R. Dehaan Classic Library)	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Thorough and Understandable teach on Grace vs Law	This book is a compilation of the Radio Bible Class taught by M. R. DeHaan.  Each chapter corresponds to a radio broadcast and covers a specific concept, and that is then briefly reviewed at the beginning of the next chapter.  This helps in reinforcing your understanding.<br />This book will help you to truly understand the difference between Grace and Law as written by Paul in the Epistle to the Galatians.  You will understand where Paul got the revelation of Grace, the meaning of Grace, what it means to be dead to the Law, the purpose of the Law, and the difference between living in Grace versus doing the works of the Law.  If you've ever been confused about the concept of Grace, or you're worried about keeping up with rules and regulations to prove to yourself that you are okay with God (which is futile), or trying to keep the law to keep yourself in good graces, then this is the book for you to read along with the Epistle to the Galatians.  Understanding Galatians will set you free, and give you the peace of knowing that any good deeds that come out of you is not by works but as a fruit of walking in the Spirit of God, covered by His Grace.	2003-09-05
US	52994232	R2CHU1BKSVX3PC	1576580199	152801821	Gladys Aylward: The Adventure of a Lifetime (Christian Heroes: Then & Now) (Christian Heroes: Then and Now)	Books	5	17	19	N	Y	A fantastic and inspirational story for students of all ages	This biography of Gladys Aylward takes as resources all of the other biographies.  It is written at a level so that children 9 and up can enjoy and benefit from.  Gladys' life shows how God can do great things through a submitted and willing servant.  Gladys started life as a servant for wealthy families, but God had other plans for her.  While at a revival meeting, she became convinced that he was leading her to China.  Even though she knew no Chinese, had no contacts in China and flunked out of China mission school, Gladys saved up her money and bought a one-way ticket to China.  The adventures and close escapes she had keep you glued to the pages, all the while glorifying God and all that He did for the Chinese people through His humble servant.  Well recommended for home-schools.	2003-08-31
US	52994232	R3AGIVG7A5ZEUK	0899579248	370134509	Prophecy Study Bible: King James Version	Books	4	42	46	N	N	Very Helpful Beginner's Prophecy Bible	I have many study Bibles and this one is the one I take to church and pull out for general reading and devotionals.  It is dedicated to the readers of the &quot;Left Behind&quot; series and for people who have become interested in Bible prophecy for the first time.  The notes inside tie the prophetic themes together, and there is a comprehensive table of prophecies concerning Jesus in the back.  Interspersed within the books are articles done by the prominent pre-tribulation scholars about topics such as &quot;Heaven&quot;, &quot;The Battle of Armageddon&quot;, &quot;The Messianic Hope&quot;, &quot;Israel in Tribulation&quot;, &quot;God's Plan of Salvation&quot;, &quot;The Rapture&quot;, &quot;The Church Age&quot;, just to name a few.  Studying prophecy helps you see how the Bible is all tied together, and how one part relates to another.  In addition, there are center column references that allow you to explain and compare one verse with several others.  The color pictures and charts are a bonus.  This Bible will be around to edify believers long after the &quot;Left Behind&quot; series has been left behind.  Buy it even if you're not interested in &quot;Left Behind&quot; series.	2003-08-31
US	52994232	R33ZZ0MTEM0NP3	1576832899	163199009	The Message: The Bible in Contemporary Language	Books	1	46	97	N	N	Danger!  The Message is a Mystic Paraphrase	This book is advertised as being written in today's English, so that the common person can understand it.  However it is a man-centered message.<br />Matt.6:10<br />KJV - Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven<br />Message - Set the world right; do what's best - as above, so below.<br />What happened to God's Will?  This is man setting the world right, doing what's best.<br />The Lord Jesus Christ has been replaced by Master Jesus in the Message.  Master is an occultic term New Age designation of Jesus as an Ascended Master.<br />Acts 16:31<br />KJV: And they said, Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved, and thy house.<br />Message:  They said, \\"Put your entire trust in the Master Jesus. Then you'll live as you were meant to live--and everyone in your house included!\\"<br />The above paraphrase also changed the message of salvation into living your life, actually deleted any reference to salvation.<br />Acts 20:21<br />KJV: Testifying both to the Jews, and also to the Greeks, repentance toward God, and faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ.<br />Message: urging Jews and Greeks alike to a radical life-change before God and an equally radical trust in our Master Jesus.<br />Faith is changed to \\"radical trust\\", and repentance toward God is removed in favor of a \\"radical life-change\\".<br />Christ's work is changed into the power of \\"believing in yourself\\".<br />Matthew 9:29<br />KJB - Then touched he their eyes, saying, According to your faith be it unto you.<br />Message - He touched their eyes and said, \\"BECOME WHAT YOU BELIEVE.\\"<br />Check it out for yourself, you don't need to buy this book, just go to the online Bible Gateway ..., and you'll easily find dozens of places where the doctrine of salvation by grace through faith, of the finished work of Jesus Christ, and the holiness of God has been diluted into a soupy message of mystic works, radical life changes, and even a bath.  See Titus 3:5 where the washing of regeneration is changed to a good bath.<br />Don't be fooled by this paraphrase.  The Holy Spirit will illuminate the scriptures for you, don't let Eugene Peterson or anyone else take the place of the Holy Spirit.  Please stick to an orthodox Textus Receptus (Received Text) translation like the King James Version.Don't be fooled by this paraphrase.  The Holy Spirit will illuminate the scriptures for you, don't let Eugene Peterson or anyone else take the place of the Holy Spirit.  Please stick to an orthodox Textus Receptus (Received Text) translation like the King James Version.	2003-08-26
US	52994232	R2FSNYW0D6VIIA	1568491840	43687660	The Small Woman	Books	5	33	33	N	Y	Well Written True Story of an Incredible Woman	This is a true story of an insignificant English maiden who went to China to tell the Chinese people of the Gospel of Jesus Christ.  Alan Burgess weaves a masterful tale, including harrowing escapes, a clash of cultures and customs, extreme poverty and deprivation, amidst an enchanting background of picturesque cities tucked in the misty mountains of Northern China, official Mandarins on palanquins, and the dusty mule trails that tie it all together.<br />There is even a love story of Gladys and a Nationalist army officer tucked in between the bombing of her town and the marching of 100 children refugees over treacherous mountains to Sian (Xian) in search of an orphanage to care for them.<br />You'll not be able to put this book down, and you'll laugh and cheer for the glorious work that God does through this determined and hardy woman.	2003-08-10
US	52994232	RO9CZUOG8D22S	0802429866	844425290	Gladys Aylward: The Little Woman	Books	5	121	123	N	Y	God Working through a Humble Faithful Person	This book is in my opinion the best one of the biographies of Gladys Aylward.  I've read the others, but they were seen through another author and seemed more like adventure stories.  This autobiography, however, puts you in Gladys' shoes so you can see and feel her prayerful reliance on God.  You'll see God work through this humble parlourmaid, calling her to China and her obedience through the most harrowing circumstances.  Gladys did what God told her to do and trusted in God to provide the means, even when it did not seem obvious and the hardships were many.<br />Every time Gladys got into a dangerous predicament, God would move His Hand and send deliverance, a woman speaking English in Siberia, a Japanese sea captain taking her prisoner, or a Nationalist patrol boat that just happened upon a prayer meeting held at the banks of the Hwang Ho where 100 children asked God to part the river for them to cross.<br />God worked through Gladys to change the lives of slaves, murderers, children, Mandarin officials, bandit generals, lepers, students and many many ordinary villagers, throughout the remote mountainous area Gladys was called to.  And He furnished the way, whether it was as a foot-inspector, or in a prison riot, or while warplanes droned overhead in caves and tents, even to a Tibetan Lamaist monastery and finally to an Irish asylum.  Everywhere God called Gladys, He used her to touch and transform thousands of ordinary lives.  Gladys arrived in China penniless, and she left China almost 20 years later penniless.  Every step of the way she trusted God for His provision and His leading.  This is truly a story that will inspire you and teach you what great things God can do through a humble person who trusts and obeys Him.	2003-08-10
US	52994232	RY1MF24195WWL	0842359915	653784320	Safely Home	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Real Gold Fears No Fire - this book is that good	This book is eye-opening and at the same time inspirational.  People are being persecuted this very moment because they believe in Jesus.  While we sit here in America with our freedoms, and a church in every corner, and three Bibles on average in every home, there are people so hungry for the Word of God that they copy bits and pieces on scrap paper and assemble them into their Bible.<br />Safely Home is seen through the eyes of American Ben Fielding, a successful executive eager to expand his company's business with China, and his reunion with his humble Chinese roomate who had gone back to China with a PhD, and expected to be a university professor.  What Ben finds when he beholds his friend for the first time in over twenty years shocks him.  On the one hand, he is amazed at the humble surroundings of his friend's one-room home, and yet full of admiration for their spiritual wealth, the love in the home and their strong solid faith in the Saviour Jesus Christ.  Ben witnesses first hand persecution, the underground church, martyrdom, and the great faith of the believers.  His life is eternally changed.  Yours will be too as you follow Ben from the executive suite to the underground cave to the prison fence.  If you're a Christian, you'll be inspired and convicted to obey the Lord in service.  If you're not a Christian, you'll follow Ben's footsteps and come to the crossroad of the most important decision you'll ever need to make.<br />This book shows that it is always worthwhile to live for God, and not by the opinions of man.  \\"Real gold fears no fire.\\"<br />\\"And I will bring the third part through the fire, and will refine them as silver is refined, and will try them as gold is tried: they shall call on my name, and I will hear them: I will say, It is my people: and they shall say, The LORD is my God.\\"  (Zechariah 13:7)	2003-08-02
US	52994232	R1FJ4VCYKOMNA5	0811811832	974705518	Madhur Jaffrey's Quick And Easy Indian Cooking	Books	5	44	49	N	Y	Beautiful photos, short and concise recipes, delicious food!	What attracted me primarily was the beautiful photos and the short recipes.  Nothing inspires confidence than to see the photographs and not be overwhelmed by a 50 step recipe requiring hours of preparation.  The recipes are indeed easy, and the ingredients can be found easily in most major cities.  If nothing else, put this book on your coffee table and enjoy flipping through the pages.  But do yourself a favor and use it!	2003-07-30
US	52994232	R17ZXBWUNVZGHF	0962880922	671787684	WHAT HATH GOD WROUGHT	Books	3	32	36	N	N	The Spiritual History of the United States of America	Mr. Grady's intention is to give the spiritual history of America and he does a generally credible job of it.  Many secular textbooks leave out the beliefs and motivations of the founding fathers, the colonists, and a lot of the movers and shakers in our country's history.  Undeniably, the United States was founded by men and women who believed in the God of the Bible.  These days the schools do not teach the faith of the Pilgrims, but instead portray Europeans as exploiters of the New World.  Chapters 5 through 9 are the best, covering the Pilgrims, Roger Williams, The Great Awakening, the jailing of Baptist pastors and preachers, and the Revolutionary War and the First Amendment.<br />This book is not to be read without discernment.  Although a lot of what Mr. Grady says is true and well documented, he does a more credible job with the earlier history of our country than with more current events.  Even if you are a Bible believing Christian remember that Mr. Grady's writings are not inspired and he has his personal biases interjected within.  His rationalizations about the \\"race\\" of Japeth justifying Manifest Destiny, as well as his overcompensation for having grown up a Catholic require discernment instead of blind acceptance.  About mid-way through the history of the US, in the chapter \\"The Devil's D-Day\\", conspiracy theories start to wrap itself around all of the ensuing events, including the Civil War, the Federal Reserve, and today's ecumenical apostasy.<br />In some places, Mr. Grady has his ax to grind.  For example, I take issue with his quoting of Acts 17:26 to support his argument against \\"race-mixing\\" or intermarriage being based on his interpretation that \\"blood\\" in that verse means genes and chromosomes.  Whereas the \\"one blood\\" generally is interpreted as having a common descent from Adam.  He then quotes the second half of that verse as saying you should stay within the \\"bounds of habitation\\" as meaning each should stay in it's own place.  Rather this should mean the sovereignty of God placing us at a certain time or place in history. (page 290)<br />The most quirky part of this book is his incredible summary of the life of Elvis \\"The King\\" Presley.  Elvis used to mix religion with drugs, preaching while high, and generally lived a bizarre life like taking his dates to the morgue to check out dead bodies.  His death scene is pathetic and an object lesson for Philippians 2:10.  Sad, very sad.<br />Finally his paralleling of America's spiritual decline with the lack of dependence on the Authorized Version of the Holy Bible is eye-opening and should be a cause of delving into this issue more.  Fortunately, Mr. Grady has written another book on this subject \\"The Final Authority\\".is should mean the sovereignty of God placing us at a certain time or place in history. (page 290)<br />The most quirky part of this book is his incredible summary of the life of Elvis \\"The King\\" Presley.  Elvis used to mix religion with drugs, preaching while high, and generally lived a bizarre life like taking his dates to the morgue to check out dead bodies.  His death scene is pathetic and an object lesson for Philippians 2:10.  Sad, very sad.<br />Finally his paralleling of America's spiritual decline with the lack of dependence on the Authorized Version of the Holy Bible is eye-opening and should be a cause of delving into this issue more.  Fortunately, Mr. Grady has written another book on this subject \\"The Final Authority\\".	2003-07-30
US	52994232	RGGDJIMNVJLTI	1578562953	61910028	Edge of Eternity	Books	5	47	49	N	Y	Enchanting, Enlightening and Astonishing!	This book reads like your worse nightmare and your most beatific dream.  Protagonist Nick Seagrave, an ex-Marine, Nam vet, and Mr. Tough Businessman is cast into a surreal world of windows and portals, instantly blending visions of beauty and delight with the horrors of hell.  In utter helplessness he is chased by a brutal pterodactyl, cringing in a cave, where he reads a cryptic three-line message:  &quot;FORWARD&quot; &quot;RED ROAD HOME&quot; &quot;BE CAREFUL WHO YOU TRUST&quot;.  His journey through this world of windows, and the people and spiritual beings he meets unfolds the story of the Fall of the Image-Bearers, the Price Paid for Redemption, the lies of the Pretender, and the ultimate Triumph of the King.  You will find it hard to put this book down, and be utterly refreshed at the end as you were confused at the beginning.  So spiritually uplifting, and a tale to cherish as we walk the red road home.	2003-07-29
US	52994232	R1HBVTEKGNHSPT	1576733165	836458314	Deadline (Ollie Chandler, Book 1)	Books	4	29	32	N	Y	Tackles all of the hard stuff inside an intriguing mystery	Jake Woods, liberal columnist and agnostic goes out on a short jaunt to pick up pizza with his best friends, Doc and Finney.  On the way back, they crash and Jake finds himself suspended between two friends, and between two destinies.  Doc, the \\"I'll Do it My Way\\" Guy and Finney, the man submitted to God.  This storyline takes Jake from the ICU where he says good-bye to Finney, to an investigation into the shadowy worlds where right and wrong are relative and no one knows anything for a certainty, with human rationalization as the ultimate standard for behavior.  The reader is pulled along from the earth, to the glorious raptures of Heaven to the despair of Hell, along with Jake as he searches for the truth and tries to find meaning in a shifting morass of values.  In the process he has to face some pretty unsavory things about himself, and tragic consequences of choices and philosophies that he adhered to.<br />Inside the story, the author has several deep messages for his readers and he doesn't pull any punches.  This book tackles just about all of the issues in our society where the guideposts have been lost, and relativism is taken for granted.  Abortion, AIDs, media-bias, homosexual bias, political correctness, assisted suicide, organ transplant lists, organized crime, Vietnam, you name it and it is weaved into a monologue or dialogue somewhere in the book.  All this is interwoven into a mystery involving some stereotyped characters, some surprising twists, and some awkward relevations.  As if that's not enough, there are matters of eternal consequences, like Heaven and Hell to delve into.<br />There is a very good understanding and exploration of the effects of abortion on men which is usually ignored.  And you'll never think about organ donations the same way again.  You'll also think twice or thrice about the definition of \\"dead\\" after you've read this book.<br />Highly recommended for teenagers as it gets them to think before acting.  Also, a hard-to-put-down book for mystery fans.  Finally, if you're at all curious about what life is like in the hereafter (or as far as Mr. Alcorn's imagination can bring you), you'll want to read or debate about his portrayals of Heaven.  Definitely a good vacation read, and a book to leave on your coffee table for curious friends.wn book for mystery fans.  Finally, if you're at all curious about what life is like in the hereafter (or as far as Mr. Alcorn's imagination can bring you), you'll want to read or debate about his portrayals of Heaven.  Definitely a good vacation read, and a book to leave on your coffee table for curious friends.	2003-07-27
US	52994232	R142K6T1IGFWW2	0310225612	791204182	God's Outrageous Claims	Books	4	38	42	N	N	What God says in the Bible contradicts popular culture	Many people, especially people that did not grow up in a church (myself included), have all sorts of notions about God that are partly fantasy and partly the way we would like God to be.  What Lee Strobel presents in his book is that God has prescriptions for our daily living that is counter-intuitive, and not what we imagined.  Jesus tells us to love our enemies, to pray for those who despitefully use us.  These are not just platitudes, but actually benefit us.  Strobel demonstrates through illustrations and examples, how doing the counter-intuitive things God's way actually helps us in the situation.  Forgiveness of enemies, giving and sacrificing for others, putting others first, asking God and leaning on Him for strength, all are extremely liberating  if one is able to actually believe and practice (easier said than done).  This is where Strobel's book comes in, giving examples, pointing out Scripture, and inspiring us to look more deeply into God's way.  And this includes God's only way of salvation for us, which is His only begotten Son, the Lord Jesus Christ.  If you get to that chapter, you'll discover that God has reserved blessings for you beyond what you would have imagined.<br />This book is highly recommended for skeptics, people who have not been raised Christian, and people who came to the Faith late in their lives.	2003-07-21
US	52994232	R276WI76S7K0D2	0842371524	305763413	Through Gates of Splendor	Books	5	86	89	N	Y	Brimming with Enthusiasm, Inspirational and Poignant	Elisabeth Elliot masterfully journals the account of the 5 young missionaries enthusiastic outreach for Indian tribes in Ecuador, starting with their calling and arrival in Ecuador, working with the Quichas and some more accessible tribes and drawn to the bringing of the Gospel to the Auca, a tribe feared by all of their neighbors as lurking killers whose custom is to spy and ambush all outsiders.  The men, with hearts burdened for the Auca, sought to befriend them and give them the Gospel.  The account leaves no doubt that these men and their wives were led by the Lord and even though the outcome was not what was hoped for, Mrs. Elliott's book is inspirational in the enthusiasm that these dedicated servants of the Lord went about to reach the Auca, as well as the widows' total reliance on their relationship with Jesus Christ after the men were killed to continue in their ministries to serve and bring the Gospel to the Ecuadorian Indians.<br />Highly recommended for home-schoolers, teenagers and today's youth in need of heroes.	2003-07-20
US	52994232	R28NU2Z3XWMUOQ	0425131769	18156055	Vital Signs	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Hokey and Predictable, and a Wild Goose Chase	This book was okay as a vacation cabin read, but it is not one of Robin Cook's best.  I found the plot pretty much predictable, in that the clinic was obviously trying to drum up business by creating a market, and then stringing the customer along to milk them for more cash.  It only takes a couple hundred pages before the heroine of the story even gets close to that idea.  She also falls for some of the lies quite easily, although she was suspicious about a coverup and evil intentions, she doesn't grok the obvious motive and means until the last few pages.  The entertaining part is the traipsing through the clinic, breaking into the computer, and then off to Australia while chased by two bumbling hit-men, and then the heroine and her alter-ego trying to make contact with the triads (the number of watches they went through), before finally figuring out what the Chinese doctors do best.  A good rainy day read, but not much of a mystery.	2003-07-16
US	52994232	R3O7JEPLM6H8A4	094357532X	555020014	Matthew Henry's Commentary on the Whole Bible: Complete and Unabridged in One Volume	Books	5	77	83	N	N	Complete Commentary on every Verse	Matthew Henry's commentary covers every verse in the Bible.  If you have a question on a particular verse, you can always turn to Matthew Henry and he'll give you some insight on the meaning as well as link it to other verses that talks about that concept.  This edition has extremely small font size and is very hard on the eyes to read.  In one sitting it is probably wise to only study about 5 verses in depth, as it is definitely full of meaning and not for skimming.	2003-06-28
US	52994232	R1C923Q1QUNKD5	0310260108	555020014	Matthew Henry's Commentary One Volume	Books	4	46	48	N	N	Condensed version of Matthew Henry's commentary	This book has been condensed to fit six volumes into one handy book.  The book is still pretty thick but surprisingly light for its size.  Sometimes, when Matthew Henry expresses the same thought in two or more different ways, Mr. Church cuts down to a single sentence.  However he has preserved the meaning, but does not necessarily expand on the thought.  He also omits references to other Bible verses that might bear on a particular commentary to save space.  Since the complete volumes are not as portable, or not as readable [the unabridged one volume version], this volume is a good compromise.  It is like having a pastor handy to answer questions about Bible verses, in one lightweight volume.  Note that the two column format is more readable, than the 3 column format of the unabridged one volume version, although the font is still pretty small.	2003-06-28
US	52994232	R34L9KPAV4IXN	0446672157	328242587	Why Good Girls Don't Get Ahead... But Gutsy Girls Do: Nine Secrets Every Working Woman Must Know	Books	2	60	73	N	N	Focus on Results rather than who's pleasing who	This book revolves around two premises:  Good Girls please others, Gutsy Girls please themselves.  Whatever happened to focusing on results and what needs to be done at work?  An effective person, male or female, doesn't matter which, focuses on the tasks and strategies that advance the business' objectives instead of playing gamesmanship (or in this case, gameswomanship) with others.  Ms. White makes it sound so droll to be a &quot;good girl&quot; and denigrates her to no end, when in reality she is portraying a doormat straw-woman so that she can contrast with her &quot;gutsy girl&quot; persona who doesn't give a hoot about anyone but how she can get ahead and elbow her way to the top.  Modern business relies on teamwork and collaboration, and such a self-centered approach will not get the best long term results.	2003-06-16
US	52994232	R2MGAP5IJSC3BA	0809230852	473443768	Games Bosses Play: 36 Career Busters Your Supervisor May Be Firing Your Way and How You Can Defend Yourself	Books	3	3	3	N	Y	Entertaining with a dose of common sense	Humorous titles of the games describe common office situations such as \\"Gold Plated Droppings\\", \\"The Happy Usher\\" and \\"Squirrel in the Corner Office\\".  The game is described, analyzed and then followed by some advice on what to do.  Most of the advice is plain old common sense.  What's nice about the book is that it is entertaining and by reading through these vignettes, you've mentally prepared, or play-acted the advice so that when you recognize a game, you would have already read the script.  For example, if the boss is playing the \\"Happy Usher\\", and you're not prepared, you'd find yourself with the desk cleaned out and the papers signed within a blink of an eye.  Whereas if you've read the script, you'd be in a better position to negotiate, ask for clarification, and not be hoodwinked into agreeing that you're really better off without this job.  Instead you would not let the boss off the hook easily, and may get a chance to make a counteroffer.  Usually, the \\"Happy Usher\\" is looking for an easy kill, and by having a counter-proposal ready for such a situation, you just might save your job.	2003-06-12
US	52994232	R3NMEJWJSWW2U0	0310236371	122614429	Under the Influence: How Christianity Transformed Civilization	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Essential Home School History Resource	Under the Influence is an overview of Western Civilization from the first century onwards with an emphasis on bringing in the aspects of history and culture as influenced by Christianity.  As such, it is indispensible for home schoolers as well as for students who want a complete picture of the development of our civilization.  This is because most modern textbooks do not mention the spiritual aspects of history.  Mention of God, Christianity, and prayer are erased from the textbooks.  If you were to read the original writings of people such as George Washington, Abraham Lincoln, Isaac Newton, George Washington Carver and many others, you'll find that they have a deep abiding faith in God.  Lord Kelvin: \\"If you think strongly enough, you will be forced by science to the belief in God.\\"  Sir Isaac Newton: \\"God governs the world invisibly, and he has commanded us to worship him, and no other God... he has revived  Jesus Christ our Redeemer, who has gone into the heavens to receive and prepare a place for us, and ... will at length return and reign over us...till he has raised up and judged all the dead.\\"  Musicians such as Bach, Handel, Beethoven, Mendelssohn composed to the Glory of God.  Beethoven: \\"I have no friend. I must live by myself. I know, however, that God is nearer to me than others; I go without fear to Him.\\"<br />Areas covered:  Morality, Women's Rights, Charity, Hospitals, Health Care, Education, Labor and Economics, Science, Politics, Art, Music, Literature.  Very comprehensive and leads to further study.	2003-06-07
US	52994232	R3HZKZ2QM8LXAZ	157673854X	127354083	The Lotus and the Cross: Jesus Talks with Buddha	Books	4	12	17	N	N	Debate between Jesus and Buddha, guess who wins?	Dr. Ravi Zacharias is a world renowned Christian speaker and has taken his usual apologetics one step further with this hypothetical conversation between Priya the Sinner, Jesus Christ the Saviour, Gautama Buddha the Enlightened One, and the Boat Driver the Clueless One.  As they cruise the river in this boat, Jesus offers Priya comfort, salvation, assurance, and Buddha offers her rules, the karmic threadmill, illusions, reninciation of self.  Point by point, Jesus (played by Ravi) picks apart Gautama (played by Ravi).  Through the dialogue Dr. Zacharias is able to present the claims of Christ, the agape love of a God who beckons all to come to Him through Christ.  As the conversation wears on, Buddha is reduced to one or two line rebuttals, \\"I think...I'll have to think on that.  I have a terrible feeling I'm backing myself into a corner here.\\"  \\"The thought is deep...and troublesome.  But I have to agree with it.\\"  All philosophical debate out of the way, Jesus then offers Priya and the Boat Driver (Wat) that He has paid for all of their sins, and that she will have eternal life if she believes in Him.  Buddha can only offer the Triple Gem, which Jesus shreds as empty nothingness.  He offers to exchange Priya's cup of sin and giver her a fresh cup of eternal life.  Buddha replies, \\"It's getting a bit dark; it's time to return.  Who'll pay the boatman?  I don't keep any money with me.\\"  Jesus' last word is Rev 3:20, He'll go home with Priya and Wat.  Buddha's is \\"No, I can't.\\"  Jesus says:  \\"I can\\".<br />There are deep meanings found in the dialogue, and this book will present the Gospel of Jesus Christ to Buddhists and other interested parties, but I found it slightly amusing that both Jesus and Buddha sounded a lot like Ravi Zacharias.  Somehow I cannot imagine Jesus actually talking like a Christian apologetic, \\"Which means the absolute you posit becomes only relatively true.  If it's only relatively true, it can no longer be stated as an absolute.\\", as He spoke in parables in the Bible to illustrate the same principles.  I would recommend instead reading a Bible and looking at the words in red.  :-)  I would also recommend listening to Dr. Zacharias' radio program [...] if you want to learn more about different world views between Christianity and other religions and our postmodern culture.  Dr. Zacharis also has an excellent book on this subject \\"Jesus Among Other Gods\\".  Dr. Zacharias does offer an unique point of view having been raised in the East among Hindus (although he himself was never a Hindu), and then immigrating to the West and traveling around the world.  In addition, he is well educated on philosophy, comparative religion and cultures and is living an interesting life.in parables in the Bible to illustrate the same principles.  I would recommend instead reading a Bible and looking at the words in red.  :-)  I would also recommend listening to Dr. Zacharias' radio program [...] if you want to learn more about different world views between Christianity and other religions and our postmodern culture.  Dr. Zacharis also has an excellent book on this subject \\"Jesus Among Other Gods\\".  Dr. Zacharias does offer an unique point of view having been raised in the East among Hindus (although he himself was never a Hindu), and then immigrating to the West and traveling around the world.  In addition, he is well educated on philosophy, comparative religion and cultures and is living an interesting life.	2003-06-02
US	52994232	RVJH379UY10T	0884191338	991005789	Bruchko	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Incredible what one man can do in the Will of God	Bruce Olson was a 19 year old when he followed God's will for him to bring the Gospel to South American natives.  Not knowing a word of Spanish, or any Indian languages, not having a missionary board, or any other missionaries to welcome him, not having a friend in all of South America (except for Jesus Christ), he walked off an airplane in Venuzuela, and eventually found himself injured and left to die inside a hut of the Motilone tribe, a group of natives so fierce that even the neighboring tribes refused to approach their territory and guided Bruce only so far, disappearing at the first sign of a Motilone.<br />How Bruce survives, and reaches these people and how Jesus transforms them is an exciting and enthralling true story that is miraculous, humbling, and glorious.  You won't be able to put this book down until you reach the end, and you'll wish for a sequel, as Bruce is alive and well today and still touching folks with the Gospel and transforming power of Jesus Christ.	2003-05-31
US	52994232	R3T6V4GDSJXMN9	0310209307	938771460	The Case for Christ:  A Journalist's Personal Investigation of the Evidence for Jesus	Books	4	5	7	N	Y	Still Skeptical about this Jesus Person?  Read this!	Lee Strobel tackles all of the hard questions put up by skeptics concerning the life and Deity of Jesus Christ.  He interviewed 13 experts who have studied and read extensively on each aspect where people have cast doubt on whether Jesus is real, is the Christ, and His Resurrection (which is the cornerstone of the Christian faith).<br />Admittedly all of the experts are Christians themselves, but they have logically and reasonably defended their area of expertise.  Add all 13 areas together, and the case for Christ becomes watertight, even to those who have no faith in Christ.<br />To make the case for Christ, one must first establish the reliability of the eyewitnesses (Matthew, Mark, Luke, John and Paul).  Then establish the accuracy of the Gospel, and the historical and archaeological record corroborating the Gospel.  Then one needs to match the Jesus of faith with the historical Jesus.  Once the historical aspect is established, one then goes onto the theological aspect, showing that Jesus acted and behaved as God, and that he was resurrected to prove that he was God.  Each piece fits together and creates a pretty airtight case.  I challenge any objective skeptic to look at all of the evidence for themselves.  Mr. Strobel's book can be an excellent guide in your own journey of discovery whether it is to solidify your faith, or to challenge his conclusions.	2003-05-26
US	52994232	R5B1HXF7D431	0060670207	684684678	Evidence Not Seen: A Woman's Miraculous Faith in the Jungles of World War II	Books	5	184	188	N	Y	A testimony to one woman's faith and walk with God	\\"I will never leave thee\\" was the title to the Focus on the Family radio program narrated by Darlene Diebler Rose.  In it she tells about her incredible trials and experiences while a prisoner in a Japanese concentration camp.  After listening to the program, and buying the CD, I wanted to know and learn more from this tremendous woman, so I bought the book.<br />Darlene was a young missionary bride when she arrived in Dutch New Guinea to win untouched tribes to Christ.  She and her husband had around one year in the field, winning a few converts but ended up imprisoned in separate prison camps.  Darlene endured tremendous hardships yet kept her wits about her and walked by faith, always asking God for guidance.  Whenever she lost faith and cried to God, He answered her by giving her His peace and assuring her that He would never leave her nor forsake her.  He also gave encouragement and answers to her prayers, such as the time she was starving and dying in the dungeon in solitary confinement and she prayed for just one single tiny banana, and God brought the Japanese camp commander to visit her and gift her 92 bananas!  [The story of the camp commander Mr. Yamaji is interesting in its own right, and without giving it away, I'll just say Darlene's living right with God had a great effect on him].  While in solitary confinement, Darlene spent her time walking with the Saviour, talking with Him, and playing in her mind the scripture that she had memorized as a girl.  She had psalms, hymns, and even entire chapters memorized, and the right line at the right time seemed to pop into her remembrance and give her the answer she needed at that time.  God's Hand could be seen protecting her, as there were several circumstances where she could have lost her life had she not followed God's prompting.<br />What I learned from this book is that no matter what the circumstances, no matter how dismal the situation, those who know Jesus are never alone.  I also learned that a Christian's testimony and the way they walk with God is observable by even the hardest and cruelest heart and can allow the Lord to change them.<br />This book was very hard to put down, and I definitely will want to be rereading it in the future for all of the inspiration and hope it gives.  I only wish she had a sequel telling about the rest of her life in New Guinea [yes, she actually went back after the war].tian's testimony and the way they walk with God is observable by even the hardest and cruelest heart and can allow the Lord to change them.<br />This book was very hard to put down, and I definitely will want to be rereading it in the future for all of the inspiration and hope it gives.  I only wish she had a sequel telling about the rest of her life in New Guinea [yes, she actually went back after the war].	2003-05-21
US	52994232	RGSJQRZ8QY4HT	0785265228	307074481	The Name	Books	4	12	14	N	N	The Name of Jesus	The various names of God helps us to understand His character.  Jesus means Saviour, and Mr. Graham tells the Gospel story while interleaving them in his life experiences, his various speeches and travels around the world.  This book is an easy read, yet full of the meaning of the impact that Jesus Christ had on the world.  I would recommend it as a gift to an unbelieving friend.  Incidentally Mr. Graham has a burden for the Muslim world having spent much time in that part of the world ministering to the Muslim people from Sudan to Indonesia to Jordan to Afghanistan.  He is not afraid to take a stand for Jesus, pray in the name of Jesus, and his convictions are that God opens the doors for him, and he is not much worried if people do not invite him back once they find out he will mention the name of Jesus that every knee should bend.  Mr. Graham does not shy away from controversy because his primary goal is to please God, rather than win popularity contests in this \\"politically correct\\" world of ours.	2003-05-17
US	52994232	R1GKEBU7A31F54	0842381384	468708674	In the Presence of My Enemies	Books	5	20	21	N	Y	Gracia's story and fitting tribute to Martin	This book is hard to put down.  Even though I followed the news about Martin and Gracia throughout their ordeal, I wanted to understand what really happened.  This book fills in the blanks between the news reports and brings you inside the hearts and feelings of Gracia, Martin, their fellow hostages and even the thinking and philosophy of their captors.  It is truly tragic that what began as a hoped for short kidnapping for ransom turned into over a year of captivity for Gracia and Martin (the two that were held the longest).  As one by one, the other hostage were either released, killed or ransomed, Martin and Gracia remained behind, holding out to the hope that they would be freed.  They were lied to by their captors, and forced to march and slog through miles and miles of jungle terrain, underfed, ill, and chained to trees at night.  The captors became increasingly frustrated and greedy, and failed to free them after a significant ransom was paid, spending the money on trivialities, and then running them off again as the demands continued to escalate.<br />Gracia tells it like it is.  There is no sugar-coating her horrifying experience, emotional ups and downs and her own reaction to her captors, as well as the callousness and cruelty of the terrorists.  She also captures the human side of the hostages and captors, and the mundane and ordinary moments they all shared together, including a feel humorous moments.  They talked about their faiths, Islam, Christianity, and what the requirements of Allah were as contrasted by the mercy of Jesus.  At one point, they all agreed that everyone had sinned and needed to be judged.  The big difference is who pays for the sins.  When Gracia said that Jesus is God who came to earth and paid for her sin, Solaiman (one of the captors) said that he will do his own paying.  Later they reflected that he might just get his wish and started praying for their salvation.<br />How did Gracia get through it all?  Through the optimism and support of her husband Martin, who stayed calm, was always there for her, and through their faith in the Lord Jesus.  They learned to lean on God, their faith was severely tested and tried, but on the day Martin died, he quoted Psalm 100 and vowed to serve the Lord with gladness.  Even though sick and emaciated, Martin carried a huge load of provisions, including mortar shells without complaining.  Gracia was filled with compassion for an injured teenage soldier who was earlier throwing rocks at her that she washed out his soiled underwear when he could only lay there moaning.  Such is true service to the Lord, even to their enemies.  Throughout their ordeal, they learned that God's grace is sufficient, His strength is made perfect in their weakness and that the power of Christ rests in them.  Otherwise there was no way they could have put one foot in front of another, leaning on, serving and glorifying Him throughout their entire ordeal.support of her husband Martin, who stayed calm, was always there for her, and through their faith in the Lord Jesus.  They learned to lean on God, their faith was severely tested and tried, but on the day Martin died, he quoted Psalm 100 and vowed to serve the Lord with gladness.  Even though sick and emaciated, Martin carried a huge load of provisions, including mortar shells without complaining.  Gracia was filled with compassion for an injured teenage soldier who was earlier throwing rocks at her that she washed out his soiled underwear when he could only lay there moaning.  Such is true service to the Lord, even to their enemies.  Throughout their ordeal, they learned that God's grace is sufficient, His strength is made perfect in their weakness and that the power of Christ rests in them.  Otherwise there was no way they could have put one foot in front of another, leaning on, serving and glorifying Him throughout their entire ordeal.	2003-05-17
US	52994232	R1VC99AEL19O1D	0830709258	720864877	Eternity in Their Hearts: Startling Evidence of Belief in the One True God in Hundreds of Cultures Throughout the World	Books	4	42	45	N	N	Interesting customs from tribal people around the world	Excellent study of tribal and ethnic traditions and myths that point to the true God of Creation and His Son the Messiah of Israel.  Don Richardson shows stories of people who said that they once knew the true God, but somehow either lost the Book, or lost contact with Him.  One tribe said that they were sure that a light-skinned messenger would come someday to tell about the Son of God.  So sure were they that they had appointed people to watch for these messengers.  This paved the way for the actual missionaries to share Christ with them, which was accepted eagerly.  Other examples are people who had lost a Book, and were waiting for someone to restore it to them.  One example was recorded in the Bible where Paul preached on Mars Hill to the Greeks about the unknown God.  Richardson goes back further to tell about the story of Epimenides and the sacrificing of &quot;dedicated&quot; sheep to ask the &quot;unknown God&quot; to cure the city of a deadly plague, after they had offered atoning sacrifices to all of the gods that they had to no avail.<br />Very interesting reading.  One disappointment is that in the last chapter he promises a book showing the spreading of Christianity in the last 2000 years, and the missionary fervor of the &quot;World's First Bible Belt&quot; (a 7,000-mile one completely encircling the Mediterranean Sea), but I can't find that this book has ever been published.  This book leaves you wanting to find out more, so I recommend the author's &quot;Peace Child&quot; and &quot;Lords of the Earth&quot; talking about the people and customers of Dutch New Guinea (Irian Jaya), and how these people came to know the Lord Jesus Christ.	2003-05-11
US	52994232	RPUX96YTEO46E	0970227817	360806835	True Son of Heaven: How Jesus Fulfills the Chinese Culture	Books	2	40	52	N	Y	Nice apologetic for the Gospel, disjointed presentation	David Marshall seems to be stretching at every shred to tie traditional Chinese culture together with the Gospel of Jesus Christ.  For example, there are holy mountains in China, there are holy mountains in the Bible.  There are four golden pillars in the Temple of Heaven in China, there are four Gospels.  Confucious had disciples and wrote proverbs, Jesus had disciples, talked in parables and the Bible has proverbs.  Chinese paint things red, red is the color of redemption symbolized by the sprinkling of blood in the Jewish temple.  Chinese have Guan Yin, the goddess of mercy, Jesus is merciful, could Jesus be a Guan Yin myth?  The Chinese word \\"fu\\" for good fortune has a character for divine on the left, followed by \\"one\\" \\"mouth\\" and \\"field\\", so this must mean God put Adam in the Garden of Eden.  A Han astronomer describes the conjoining of Jupiter and Saturn and decides to travel west on the Silk Road, hmmmm.... he must have been one of the wise men who came to Jerusalem \\"from the east\\".  Confucius described an ideal man, \\"Sheng Ren\\", perhaps he was looking for Jesus?  The Emperor of China is called the \\"Son of Heaven\\", maybe he was foreshadowing Jesus.<br />It's nice that Mr. Marshall sees Jesus everywhere, but his presentation is not convincing.  The highlight of the book is a discussion on the authenticity of the Gospel.  He claims to defend the Gospel with the \\"help of a few fairy tales, a calendar, and the Analects of Confucius\\".  However he does not properly relate the evidence other than that the Gospels are not like any other literary genre, that the earliest of the Gospels was written a scant 30-40 years after Christ, whereas the earliest copy of the Analects were 750 years after Confucius.  The apologetic is accurate, but Lee Strobel does a much more thorough job in \\"The Case for Christ\\", whereas Mr. Marshall is only interested in tying in as much \\"Chinese-ness\\" into it as he can.<br />Other portions of this book read like a travelogue, such as when an old lady guard refused to let the author into a provincial building and three tourists from Manchuria were killed in a park and since the author had trouble obtaining a room because he was a foreigner, he surmises that the Manchurian tourists were similarly denied beds at the hostel.  There is also a section on the development of Buddhism, and the Chinese adaptation to it, as well as some thoughts on the cultural revolution and Communism, with anecdotes.  Interspersed throughout are his thoughts and observations about Chinese culture and the people he met on his travels.<br />A semi-entertaining read, with a good apologetic for the Gospel, woven with the presentation of why sinners need Jesus, but overall a stretch in association of Jewish and Biblical archetypes with Chinese traditional culture and language coincidences.old lady guard refused to let the author into a provincial building and three tourists from Manchuria were killed in a park and since the author had trouble obtaining a room because he was a foreigner, he surmises that the Manchurian tourists were similarly denied beds at the hostel.  There is also a section on the development of Buddhism, and the Chinese adaptation to it, as well as some thoughts on the cultural revolution and Communism, with anecdotes.  Interspersed throughout are his thoughts and observations about Chinese culture and the people he met on his travels.<br />A semi-entertaining read, with a good apologetic for the Gospel, woven with the presentation of why sinners need Jesus, but overall a stretch in association of Jewish and Biblical archetypes with Chinese traditional culture and language coincidences.	2003-05-06
US	52994232	R16KHPFI2BU3OP	0970227817	360806835	True Son of Heaven: How Jesus Fulfills the Chinese Culture	Books	2	20	31	N	Y	A large stretch, short on scholarship, long on syncretism	I would hardly call David Marshall a fundamentalist!  He takes any sort of story or tradition and tries to fit Jesus into it.  If anything, it is not right to syncretize Jesus with other religious characters and goddesses like Guan Yin.  Just because there are certain elements of mercy, love, respect for elders, showing goodness and kindness to others in both Chinese philosophy and the teachings of Christ, does not mean that somehow Confucius had a direct relevation from Christ.  Chinese philosophy and religion, like all other religion worldwide is based on works, do this, do that, and you will be counted worthy.  Therefore it is not surprising that there will be rules for almost all aspects of public and private behavior, and that many kind and wonderful deeds are done with acts of mercy and kindness.  In any case, Mr. Marshall seems to meander between Jesus and elements of Chinese culture, stretching to find some kind of commonality, and implying that some kind of special relevation occurred to the Chinese people.  When in fact, the Chinese people, like everyone else did have the general relevation of the creation.  It may be possible that some legends of the events in Genesis, like the flood, and maybe a few practices were carried over from earlier ancestors such as the worship of the Supreme God and the animal sacrifices.  However there is not much evidence that Taoism, Buddhism, and Confucianism were directly influenced by the prophets of Israel.<br />That the Gospel of Jesus Christ would be appealing to Chinese people is not surprising, as the Gospel of Grace is appealing to all people, once the light of Jesus is manifested to them.  Grace over works, and a Saviour beckoning to all who would come to him to rest in his righteousness.  This explains why many Chinese people are turning to Christ today.  However it does not prove that somehow that the Gospel was woven into Chinese culture of the past.<br />In any case, I find this book interesting for the point ofview of the author, and disjointed, in that he takes bits and pieces from here and there, and does not prove his thesis in a scholarly accountable manner.  For glimpses of the general relevation of God in other cultures, I recommend &quot;Eternity in their Hearts&quot; by Don Richardson, as a more intriguing presentation of the hints that God left in people's culture.  Only the most compelling coincidental evidence is presented in that book, unlike this one where the author is really stretching.  Another interesting point of view of the commonality of Jesus with other religious figures is found in &quot;The Two Babylons&quot; by Alexander Hislop, where his explanation of similarities is that Satan is conterfeiting Jesus with false gods and goddesses that present similar redemptive and resurrection traditions.  Scary, huh?  Then find the truth in the Holy Bible, and read these opinions of men as interesting, but not something I'd base my salvation on or even lose sleep over.	2003-05-04
US	52994232	R33C6V1EDPA23K	157145649X	899909538	Botanica's Trees & Shrubs: Over 1000 Pages & over 2000 Plants Listed	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Great value for color photographs alone!	The variety of trees and shrubs covered in this handy guide of 1000 pages is incredible.  Each genus is described, and a selection of species within the genus is photographed either of the foliage, flowers, or growth habit.  Cultivation notes are included, along with descriptions of the species, or cultivars.  The color photographs are what makes this book stand out.  For example, there are more than 30 color pictures of the various pine species, 52 pages and more than 130 color pictures of rhododendrons, 45 pages and more than 120 color pictures of roses, 15 pages and more than 80 color pictures of camellias.  And since the pictures are in color and show the beauty of the flower or the habit of the shrub or tree, foliage color, you can really plan your purchases before heading to the nursery, or take the book along to visualize a fully grown specimen.	2003-04-26
US	52994232	R2O23ZZVVZL1OL	0830705295	47097075	Lords of the Earth	Books	5	20	22	N	Y	Another Entralling Book	If this book won't give you a heart for missions, nothing will.  This book tells the story of Stan Dale and the Yali tribe as cultures clash and the Gospel wins over the hearts of fierce and cruel warriors, whose enjoyment is to shoot so many arrows into a victim to porcupine him or her, and then eat with relish the corpse of a victim.  These people are so entralled to their spirits that any violation of taboo was punished by death.  Women were also excluded from all rituals and religion and deemed unclean.  Into this walks Stan Dale charging forward with fortitude determination and a total reliance on God.  Winning a few young converts coupled with tortuous hard labor to construct a basic airstrip, Dale and a friend were martyred.  Then through a total act of Providence, God intervened miraculously and revival swept the Yali people at the same spot where the two missionaries were killed and dismembered by the appearance of a little missionary boy and his protection by a wise old man.  You must read this book to find out what happens.  After all is revealed, you will see the Hand of God, protecting Stan Dale and his family in a very humourous manner based on mistaken identity.<br />This book will give you a taste of the challenges in reaching a lost world.  It is still going on today with organizations such as the New Tribes Mission whose missionaries were recently martyred in the Philippines.  Truly amazing real-life stories.	2003-03-14
US	52994232	R2AB1WUH91GOEK	0830704159	203228726	Peace Child	Books	5	50	53	N	Y	Gripping true story, spellbinding page-turner	Talk about living on the edge, Don Richardson, his newlywed wife Carol and seven-month old son Stephen step from the 20th century into a stone-age cannabilistic cultural with gruesome and horrific practices.  This book reads like the true adventure it is, starting with the narration of life, death, betrayal, parties where the honored guests become the special of the day.  Enter this family of three into the midst of suspicious cannibals bringing three rival factions together each vying jealously for the knifes, steel axes, matches, machetes, mirrors and medicine, you get a powder keg with small to large explosions daily.  Imagine living in a grass hut with your wife and baby huddled inside while fierce warriors and arrows fly throughout the sky.  Imagine facing an entire clan beating and burning a man that the sorceress has declared to be a soul-less zombie and praying him back to life, only by a miracle of God.  These and other adventures show what it's really like to walk by faith, trusting only God to protect you, and doing His will to win people to Christ.  There are many hair-prickling turns in this story, leaving you at the edge of your seat, wondering if it'll all end in disaster.  But the glory of the Lord is that He had left Himself a witness in the strange custom of the \\"Peace Child\\" that Richardson was able to use to point to the Perfect Peace Child, the Son of God, Prince of Peace, to bring the Sawi tribe to a knowledge of Jesus Christ.  Truly awe inspiring.  I am now reading the sequel \\"Lords of the Earth\\".	2003-03-13
US	52994232	R3W3X69EDCQ3LQ	0785201688	788128118	Holy Bible King James Version Study Bible (Burgundy)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Must Get if you're a new Christian or serious disciple	If you were to have only one study Bible, this is it. It is packed with footnotes, references, doctrinal notes, maps, outlines, charts, personality profiles, archaeological facts, and a huge concordance. The center column includes references and also explanations of difficult words or phrases and the footnotes expand on the significance of the verses in the text. The importance of sound doctrine is emphasized, with an index to doctrinal pathes that take you from verse to verse of Scripture that clarifies and unlocks the meaning of theological truth. For example, the &quot;Doctrine of Salvation&quot; steps through &quot;Gospel&quot;, &quot;Salvation&quot;, &quot;Reconciliation&quot;, &quot;Propitiation&quot;, ..., touching on all of the facets of Salvation. To me, this is the most important and unique feature in this heavily laden feature-packed Study Bible. I've bought one for myself and one for my daughter. We plan on going through it together, and it should last a lifetime.	2003-03-09
US	52994232	R1MI65LLMZQCFN	0310979900	660692904	Distressed Leather-Look Black XL	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Stylish, looks like real leather, and rugged	This hardy Bible cover is large enough for the Thomas Nelson King James Study Bible ISBN: 0785201688 and most other Extra large Bibles.  It still manages to zip up (although the zipper tab tends to be tucked under the largest Bible), and has a handy outer pocket for postcards and bulletins, two pen holders.	2003-03-09
US	52994232	R13ORPBSMOXQYL	1929125305	966997011	What Love Is This? Calvinism's Misrepresentation of God	Books	5	31	53	N	N	Must Read if you're confused about Calvinism	Dave Hunt has done an excellent expose of Calvinism, from its historical roots, to its eternally insecure adherents.  He does a thorough analysis of the 5 points of Calvinism (TULIP) and shows how they contradict the Bible, requiring one to change the meaning of words like &quot;world&quot; to mean &quot;elect&quot;, and &quot;whoever&quot; to mean &quot;whoever among the elect&quot;.  He also goes over each of the verses that Calvinists use and shows how they are taken out of context.  Throughout the book, he shows that Calvinism contradicts the entire Bible, in that if Calvinism were true, there would have been no need for a Bible to be written.  There would have been no need for prophets to warn the people, the apostles to plead and dispute, and the Lord Jesus to commission &quot;fishers of men&quot;.  Everything would have been preordained and we would not be conscious beings, made in the image of God.  This is a rather long book, but worth reading all the way through so that you understand all the 5 points and how each of them depend on each of the others.  Take away one of the 5 points and the doctrine of Calvinism falls like a house of cards.  Mr. Hunt also shows that not a single point can be backed up by the Bible.  One thing that surprised me at first glance was the insecurity of the Calvinistic believer.  I had always thought that they were secure in knowing that they were of the elect.  Dave Hunt points out that many of the Calvinistic greats were not sure that they were of the elect, and indeed who can know if it is all shrouded in some great mystery?  Mr. Hunt gives a story of Al and Jan, to illustrate how a man can be plagued with doubts of being one of the elect instead of resting in God's love and assurance.  I pray for any readers with Calvinistic leanings to take God's Word as His Word, receive salvation by His grace and rest assured in the Lord Jesus by faith.	2003-03-05
US	52994232	R1X7B4G6EQKQBT	0825424801	641888184	The Romance of Redemption: Studies in the Book of Ruth (M. R. DeHaan Classic Library)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	A Wonderful Romance, and Sound Doctrine	On the surface, the Book of Ruth is a story about a certain family, two widows, and a wealthy man.  Dr. Dehaan illuminates several layers of meaning in this story, the primary interpretation of the message of redemption, the practical applications for the believer and a glorious and grand prophetic relevation concerning our own futures.  Just as every book in the Bible points to our Lord Jesus Christ, so does the Book of Ruth.  This book has timely applications for us today, and for the nation Israel as well as the current calling out of the Church.  Finally it is doctrinally sound, our Lord's virgin birth, His bodily resurrection and His atoning blood are found in the word pictures of this book.  And you thought this was just a romance between a outcast widow and a wealthy man?	2003-03-05
US	52994232	R3L7PXJDJ9TPVN	068815428X	567590823	Gung Ho! Turn On the People in Any Organization	Books	5	8	11	N	Y	Still Motivating After all these years	I just recently re-read Gung Ho! and found it just as refreshing and motivating as when it first came out.  Without giving the plot away, let's just say it's an easy-to-remember system that builds the foundation of an enthusiastic team geared to achieve more than they ever thought they could.  Since I was the business leader and development manager on a memorable and exciting project, where everything just clicked, and our team was able to deliver a product that is outselling others of its class in record time, and against the disbelief of the other units, I have to say that it is a once-in-a-lifetime confluence of the stars (or the squirrels, beavers, and geese), that makes all of it happen.  We will savor the 6 months when we started from scratch with guts and energy to deliver a product that others in our company called \\"We'll See...\\".  What they saw was Gung Ho!	2003-03-04
US	52994232	RN71GT1KYMINX	0840706456	838259013	King James Study Bible	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Doctrinally Sound, Packed with Information	If you were to have only one study Bible, this is it.  It is packed with footnotes, references, doctrinal notes, maps, outlines, charts, personality profiles, archaeological facts, and a huge concordance.  The center column includes references and also explanations of difficult words or phrases and the footnotes expand on the significance of the verses in the text.  The importance of sound doctrine is emphasized, with an index to doctrinal pathes that take you from verse to verse of Scripture that clarifies and unlocks the meaning of theological truth.  For example, the &quot;Doctrine of Salvation&quot; steps through &quot;Gospel&quot;, &quot;Salvation&quot;, &quot;Reconciliation&quot;, &quot;Propitiation&quot;, ..., touching on all of the facets of Salvation.  To me, this is the most important and unique feature in this heavily laden feature-packed Study Bible.  I've bought one for myself and one for my daughter.  We plan on going through it together, and it should last a lifetime.	2001-09-04
US	52994232	R3882BQE123X65	0310912679	380480488	KJV Holy Bible Reference, Platinum Edition Indexed	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Handy, Compact, Sweet	If you're looking for a lot of features, study aids, and footnotes, this Bible is not for you.  What it does have is all of the King James text, a center column of references, a brief introduction to each book, and a concordance at the end.  All of this is packed in a nice leather binding, with a ribbon, gilt edges, and thumb-indexes that get you approximately to the book you're looking for.  It's small size, thinness, and lightweight makes it a handy Bible for church and travelling.	2001-09-04
US	52994232	RMP4P5FRHISOI	0529108283	850433587	KJV My Jesus Loves Me Bible	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Handy Bible for Children	This is a cute and handy little Bible. Inside the front cover are the lyrics to &quot;Jesus Loves Me&quot; by Anna B. Warner. At the front is &quot;A Child's Introduction to the Bible&quot; by Dr. Charles C. Ryrie written from a child's point of view, describing the history of the Bible, and the message of salvation. There is also a brief introduction to each book of the Bible and a &quot;Young Reader's Dictionary-Concordance&quot; at the end. Various color pictures are sprinkled throughout the Bible depicting scenes and characters. Finally it is the Authorized King James Version, and contains phonetic marks. The only caveat is that the font is quite small, but for a young person that is not an issue. The compact size and lightweight is fitting for small hands and easily slipped into bookbags.	2001-09-04
US	52994232	R3GZSFC5KJTYBI	0898159725	592486944	45 Effective Ways for Hiring Smart! : How to Predict Winners and Losers in the Incredibly Expensive People-Reading Game	Books	1	27	34	N	N	Full of Fluff and Platitudes	I was disappointed that most of the strategies in the book rely on psyching out the interviewee, using trick questions and a reliance on gut feeling and/or chemistry/fit.  For example, Mornell recommends following a  candidate to his car, and even getting handwriting analysis done.  He even  suggests giving the candidate a brain teaser puzzle and throwing them  curveballs.  For example, &quot;Ask candidates what kind of bumper sticker  they have on their car.&quot;  I mean, the answers to these questions are  useless and have nothing to do with whether a candidate can do the job you  are presumably interviewing them for.  Other strategies such as  &quot;meeting the spouse&quot; or asking about their &quot;wild and  crazy&quot; personal life can be legally indefensible. Finally asking  candidates if they're lucky, or what they would do if they won the lottery  is just plain ineffective.  What you should be interested in is what has  the candidate done in past jobs/situations, the steps they took to  accomplish a task, and the results of their actions, not what their  favorite book or movie is, or what side of the bed they sleep on.  Frankly  if I were being interviewed by a person using these strategies, I would get  up and walk out.  The interviewer is obviously more interested in playing  games than assessing my suitability for a real job.	1999-05-30
