US	52992589	R2MJXH7OHMO88N	0471267368	510489797	The Fall of the Berlin Wall	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The Cold War's Story, Concisely Told	We are extremely fortunate to have the story of the rise and fall of the Berlin Wall rendered in the precise narrative of Mr. Buckley's book. Sceptics who might have expected Mr. Buckley exclusively to lavish praise on President Reagan and Prime Minister Thatcher will be sorely disappointed.  What emerges in this concise history is far more complex.  Three factors combined over time \\"to tear down this wall.\\" First, Reagan and Thatcher were remarkably adept at pressuring the Soviet Union. On the U.S. side, National Security Directive - 75 sanctioned efforts to stimulate internal pressures on the USSR. The Star Wars program became a threat that Gorbachev could neither ignore nor afford to confront.  Second, Gorbachev himself made the right moral choice in choosing to recognize rather than repress the growing aspirations for democracy in the Soviet bloc. [There was nothing inevitable in that, as made clear in the Gorbachev chapter in Ferguson's Virtual History.] Finally, within the Soviet Union, perhaps most especially in Gdansk, the desire for autonomy was courageously made actionable by ordinary citizens who at that perfect moment in time decided to become some of the century's greatest heroes.  All these factors combined to replace the cold, unwavering Brezhnev Doctrine -- once a Soviet state always a Soviet state -- with what Primakov later implied was the new, Sinatra doctrine -- they can do it their way.  Inevitably, the problem with well-written short books is that one wishes they were longer. So, I would like to have seen Mr. Buckley delve more into the Soviet struggle in Afghanistan with the ensuing alleged consequences for Al Queada, and I think the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict deserved a more in-depth narrative, one placing it in its larger historical context. All that is little more than saying I wish Buckely had continued to write this book, and that, I think, is often the way good short books books become really long insipid books.  Thankfully, Buckley optedto give us a superbly readable and precisely rendered account of a significant part of what was both, as historian John Gaddis called it, the \\"long peace,\\" and at the same time the long war of the 20th Century.	2005-09-25
US	52992589	RMV6S0WPUCYCC	0060934417	546555129	Bel Canto	Books	4	2	3	N	N	"How much luck is one person entitled to in one night?"	Deep into this novel, the question about luck is asked:  \\"How much luck is one entitled to...?\\" Bel Canto is, at a fundamental level, a book about chance.  The characters are in a South American country, celebrating at a state dinner the birthday of a Japanese industrialist and then, from nowhere, they are taken hostage.  Immediately they are transformed into political symbols -- depersonalized bargaining chips. Over time, the characters resign themselves to life as hostages, a life different from, but not necessarily lesser in quality than the life enjoyed before captivity.  The extrordinary beomes routine and predictable.  A cyclic daily existence evolves, and with it some events, equally as exceptional as the initial incident itself.  Ms. Patchett's achievment is to take an exceptional moment and weave around it a plausible story. At times sentimentality gets the better of her. After a night in which characters are blissfully making new attachments, she feels compelled to tell us that, Simon Thibault, woke from a fitful sleep dreaming of his wife, Edith.  A paragraph like that is like a visit to a party by the local police; the exotic locale and exceptionalism are robbed of their force --  suddenly we are watching a scene from TV, say \\"Little House on the Prarrie.\\" But then again she can surely craft a sentence: \\"[Carmen] prayed to Saint Rose that the shyness which came down on her like a blinding fog would be lifted as suddenly as it landeed.\\"  And, several pages later, \\"A kiss in such loneliness was like a hand pulling you out of the water, scooping you out from a place of drowning and into the reckless abudance of air.\\" Once one enters Bel Canto, time, place and belief are suspended while a new, well-woven world starts to cohere.  This book will stay with you long after others have fallen away.	2005-08-26
US	52992589	R1QG8CA8VYSX33	0713998016	38955298	The Strange Death of Tory England	Books	5	8	12	N	N	A party seeped in tradition stays there...	If you were a member of the Tory part in the UK today, what strategy would you employ to surmount Labour's commanding lead? When I asked this of a Tory MP a few years back the answer I got was, \\"we'll implement better.\\" An honest answer, but so much for the philosophical divide.  I don't know I could have answered any better, let alone as well, but I do know that understanding the Tory disadvantage is aided enormously by Mr. Wheatcroft's survey.  As the title of his book suggests, it was not just the Tories as a a party, but Tory England iself that declined. The fox hunt, the Church, and all the values once associated with being a Tory are culturally passe in the 21cUK. As a party, the Tory party, as the right-wing in general, by and large won the political wars; so much so, that we find on questions of policy little discontinuity between Lady Thatcher and Tony Blair. In fact, the National Review correspondent Denis Boyles seems more correct than not in arguing that Blair's chief critics are to be found on the left. With private capital essential, big government suspect and chivalry risible the world seems tailor-made for Labour. What the party won politically; it lost culturally.  While there is consensus on the former, today's British voter quite clearly prefers the latter.  Compare that with the United States. The distance on \\"value questions\\" between the two parties is much greater than on policy questions, but on values the Republican's enjoy the same ascendancy in conservative America that Labour enjoys on the other side of the less conservative Atlantic.  There is much more to Wheatcroft's book than this single theme.  In fact, much of his account concerns the internal political dynamics of the Conservatives, commencing with Macleod's refusal to serve under Home in the sixties, the latter having risen to power through the cabal of an innermost \\"magic circle.\\"  Large sections of this survey were, in honesty, new to me. Other, particularly American readers might find themselves on foreign ground as well, but tread on.  Differences between Europe and the United States show no sign of diminishing in importance anytime soon and Wheatcroft's well-written analysis of our most steadfast of EU allies is well worth knowing.t find themselves on foreign ground as well, but tread on.  Differences between Europe and the United States show no sign of diminishing in importance anytime soon and Wheatcroft's well-written analysis of our most steadfast of EU allies is well worth knowing.	2005-08-11
US	52992589	RD2ED16RSMXFI	0253215749	667308840	Who Knows?: A Study of Religious Consciousness	Books	5	36	40	N	Y	Inquiring Minds Want to Start At "Who Knows?"	Here is a book that manages, in relatively few pages and in a style that is consistently readable, to address provacatively and intelligently some of the central questions that men and women throughout time have pondered.  Three basic areas are covered: (1) The existence of God, and more important, the \\"type\\" of God in whom one believes, (2) The question of whether God is unable or unwilling to grant eternal salvation to all and, (3) Whether we are evolving toward a higher level of consciousness -- a state of being \\"better described than defined.\\"  Smullyan, apparently, has led a colorful life, a significant fraction of which has been spent outside the halls of academia. Still,he is best known for his puzzles, particularly his wonderful puzzles concerning Knights (who always speak the truth) and Knaves (who never do).  So, we are most fortunate that this magician/logician should turn his attention to the greatest puzzles of all: Does God exist, what are God's attributes and can we, or at least some people, know God? Countless volumes have been written on these questions.  I have sampled not even an insignificant fraction of such work, but I'd bet good money that you could travel a long way in those jungles before finding a book as lucid and as accessible as \\"Who Knows?\\" One doesn't have to agree with Smullyan to go on the tour with him.  Having read the library's copy, I purchased my own copy from Amazon and plan to take the trip again shortly.	2005-07-28
US	52992589	R17DYDCWGKZB20	1586481614	963615499	Gracefully Insane: Life and Death Inside America's Premier Mental Hospital	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Crazy with Class	Alex Beam's Gracefully Insane is written with a twofold purpose in mind.  On the one hand, Beam introduces readers to the rolling hills and well-appointed grounds of a MacLean, psychiatric hospital of the rich and famous; its residents often referred to the hospital as a university, to themselves as alumni.  On the other hand, through the lens of Maclean one sees the evolution of the history of psychiatric practice in America.  Here, for the most part, MacClean was neither better nor worse than most.  If it was fashionable to dunk patients in vats of cold water or harness them into gyrating chairs, such practices could be found.  About the only fashion that could not be accomodated is that practiced today: where the emphasis is on the efficacy of pharmacological medicine.  With the end of the extended observation stay, this bastion of outliers gradually loses its psychiatric niche.  Still, Gracefully Insane is worth a leisurely read, if only to glimpse Ray Charles, Sylvia Plath, James Taylor and the other members of its distinguished alumni.	2005-07-02
US	52992589	R96RM8XLA4NL9	1400078970	174875218	Rubicon	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A User-Friendly Historical Account	Getting even a weak grasp of Roman history is no easy task.  The subject seems to invite multi-volume histories that may be breathless in scope and detail, but remain beyond the time and energy that most people have to devote to a subject, even one as interesting as that of Rome.  Tom Holland has done curious minds everywhere a favor:  in a relatively small book he has distilled in moving prose a readable account of the rise and fall of the Roman republic.  Modern readers will find in this history problems that are all too familiar, not least the endless quest to pander to the citizenry, even if it means lying to them, as inevitably it does.  Of particular interest is the vivid account of Caesar and Cleopatra and the interplay between Egypt and Rome in general.	2005-07-02
US	52992589	R3VAC4DE57FEW9	1400032903	437281256	Bangkok 8: A Royal Thai Detective Novel (1)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A wicked plot with a surprise non-ending	John Burdett's Bangkok 8 is a fast-paced, well-written novel that manages, among other feats, to introduce readers to a version (see his introductory disclaimer) of Thailand that stresses its complexity.  Burdett guides us through a country that has escaped the routine boredom of the developed world:  \\"What we don't realize, we Thais, is just how simple life is in the West. Too simple.\\"  A modest contribution, earns one a \\"car, an apartment, a bank account.\\"  There is, Burdett shows us, a whole hemisphere dying of \\"event-starvation.\\"  From that emotionally arid world they come to sample the demonic complications of Thailand.  The bizarre death of a U.S. Marine sets the events of this novel in motion.  It's a gripping read until...those final moments of the novel where, for reasons lost on me, Burdett opts to end the tour of the surreal with what amounts to a curtain-closing Broadway musical finale.  Still, one can always skip that last short chapter; besides, those few pages ought not to detract from a novel that is, in no way, starved of events.	2005-06-01
US	52992589	R1076ODWDSGS69	0375753974	683606071	Pontius Pilate	Books	4	1	4	N	N	The Pilate of myth, and of reasonable speculation	Ms. Wroe is drawn to history that is both meaningful and concealed.  Her book, A Fool and His Money, set out to explore a the dynamics of a treasure lost by an addled Medieval craftsman.  She has little data, and is forced to fill the void with historically plausible speculation.  Pilate, of course, is a much more important subject. Here she is drawn to the Pilate of \\"symbols,\\" and myths and plays -- ancient, medieval and modern -- as opposed to the actual Roman governor that washed his hands of the condemnation of Christ to a death by the Crucifixion.  With Pilate, though, the story is even more perplexing.  Initially Pilate was treated with some degree of sympathy, particularly when the Chuch was eager to absolve him and accuse the Jews.  After the Edict of Milan, however, when Christianity has become more established and Judaism less a threat, Pilate stands accused, and in the Nicene Creed he alone is mentioned -- \\"who (Jesus Christ) suffered and died under Pontius Pilate.\\"   <br />This is a well-written, fascinating reconstruction of Pilate.  In fact, this is a superb work for enhancing one's understanding of Rome under Tiberius.  Moreover,there are some passages between these covers where Ms. Wroe throws away in passing more intriguing scholarship than many books manage to contain.  That said, I do wish she had spent less time unraveling every play about Pilate.  To be sure, the plays have their status in this account, since the combination of speculation and propaganda is all we seem to have ever had on Pilate.  Nonetheless, I prefer Ms. Wroe when she is doggedly shifting through the Gospels, or Jospheus, or other, more dated historical sources, bringing them to life with her remarkable eye and ear and a very keen intelligence.	2005-05-09
US	52992589	R138SPUVMS4WC2	0679767460	959790294	Jesus of Nazareth, King of the Jews: A Jewish Life and the Emergence of Christianity	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A History without Faith vs a Faith without History....	Paula Fredriksen's exceedingly well-written and carefully reasoned text asks a simple question:  Why was Jesus crucified?  The answer she is seeking must withstand the methodological rigours of the historian's craft.  Simply put, she searches for the answer to this question by examining the social and cultural context in which Jesus found himself.  This approach does not negate speculation, but any such must plausibly fit the available data, including information from outside the synoptic gospels, such Josepheus and other sources.  For Ms. Fredriksen the puzzle is why Jesus' death by crucifixionn and thus a very public death.  That particular mode of death was reserved for those believed to be a threat to public order, in short, Rome. Jesus' life and teachings fail to answer this question directly. Ultimately, Jesus was threatening not because of anything he said, or even did, but because of the reception he received by the masses.  It was they who elevated Jesus to the status of the Messiah.  Thus, Pilate moved: to deflate the supporters of Jesus, and to satisfy his opponents.  Of course, this too is speculative -- Pilate's decision to execute Jesus, rather than have him quitely \\"removed,\\" ultimately rested on his \\"bet\\" that Jesus' supporters would be quelled, and not energized to rebellion.  Perhaps in the immediate context, Pilate was right, but in the long-term his \\"strategy,\\" if we may refer to the death of our Lord in this way, was way wide of the desired mark.	2005-03-23
US	52992589	R28USTYQYQZN41	006000942X	842226613	How to Read Literature Like a Professor: A Lively and Entertaining Guide to Reading Between the Lines	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Sometimes a cigar is not just a cigar.....	At last, you can become a literary expert right in your home..without taking classes in cramped classroom chairs and   having to listen to other students drone on about lost loves, death, violence and the internet.  The central thesis of Professor Foster's book is that to succeed at the art of close reading one has to search for the symbolism, invariably underlying, in the literary text.  The principal benefit of this book is that Foster provides an array of examples demonstrating that a richer appreciation of the art is available to readers who are willing to work for it.  Foster has a light touch, a welcome contrast to the ponderous, inscrutable tomes of many of his colleagues.  He keeps the pace moving and his attempts to inject humor in the process are successful more often than not.  I have to admit that, although I have long admired her work, what Foster says about Iris Murdoch is true:  her characters drown at every opportunity; given have a chance, she'd drown the Pacific fleet!	2005-03-10
US	52992589	R3QRMCNB28LTQY	0375701494	160007841	Old School	Books	5	3	3	N	N	"..the nature of literature to behave like the fallen world"	In the world of Old School, literature matters.  Collectively, the students of this high strung, Eastern prep school, write with intensity, compete through writing and reveal, discover and in some cases even diminish themselves in plot, character, voice, words.  For the characters in this compact gem of a novel, no task presents more difficult or leads to greater disapointment than that of distinguishing truth from falsehood, representation from reality, understanding from intent. If the world of literature presents no bright lines to them it is because even literature is unable to reflect that which is not there to be seen: \\"It is the nature of literature to behave like the fallen world it contemplat[es].\\"  Between the covers of this novel, Wolff offers us superb insights on Robert Frost, Ayn Rand, Ernest Hemmingway, Nathaniel Hawthorne and others.  That's as it should be, since Old School does indeed concern itself with the great dialogue within the cannon of American lit.  If America had a literary czar whose job was to bestow on books deemed worthy the status of a classic, even though newly published, I am certain such a czar would make that proclammation of Wolff's Old School.	2005-03-03
US	52992589	R3RZ80HPJDL38U	0767915305	315577385	The Sex Lives of Cannibals: Adrift in the Equatorial Pacific	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	"No man is an island," unless they're stuck here...	If John Donne had ever been to Kiribati he would never have written that bit about a man never being an island.  God wanted to get home early the day he made this steamy hell hole.   <br />Who should read this book? If you are interested in international affairs, global health and sanitation, the fishing industry, sun-block, dogs gone wild, air and sea travel in this part of the Pacific, alcohol consumption in conditions of intense heat, risk-taking, or perhaps you are just longing for a break from steroids in baseball, Dr. Phil and the dysfunctional, the Nanny person, or have just about had it with Neverland:  this is your book. It would have been easy for Troost to have written a book on some serious global issue and how it affects the island and how we are to blame for it and so on.  To be sure, there's some of that (his occassional digression on the U N and WHO ought to be required reading for public health students). Yet, his \\"voice\\" is perfect; it allows readers to see how farcical life on the island can be when seen from the vantage point of a young man and wife transplanted from the nation's capitol.   <br />People, it seems,  have been and remain fascinated with the prospect of surviving an island that seems untouched by the \\"modern\\" world. Robinson Crusoe, Castaway, Lost, Gilligan's island: all feed this desire in some way.  Troost's book is within this multi-media genre, but it is by far the funniest, and quite likely the most realistic guide to such an experience yet.  Lest you think Troost exemplifies the civilized outlook disparaging some lesser culture -- the funny side of the \\"White Man's Burden\\" -- read this book to the conclusion!  His view of re-entering civilized atmosphere after his far flung exploits demonstrates his ability to see madness wherever it rears its irrational, little head.	2005-03-01
US	52992589	R1VW47JU579SGX	0385489102	424706370	The Rasputin File	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Rasputin on file.......	To Radzinsky, the Siberian peasant who exercised an abnormal influence in the palace of the Tsars \\"was the epitome of the Russian's staggering ability to live upright within while enveloped in unceasing sin.\\"  Was Alexandra not cognizant of Rasputin's forays into debauchery? If so, how could she continue to rely on him for his prognastications and to defend him against his many detractors?  What becomes clear in Radzinsky's text is that the relationship between Rasputin and the Tsarina was symbiotic.  The future that Rasputin predicted -- whether bright or dark -- almost never failed to differ from the desires of Alexandra.  In return, Rasputin enjoyed privileged access at court and the protection he needed to indulge his baser self and thereby qualify for that sweet redemption so dear to the khlysty sect.  Moreover, as Radzinsky shows, the enemies and friends of \\"our Friend,\\" as Alexandra called him, had in common a stake in fostering the image of Rasputin as a spiritual force of uncanny capabilities.  His supporters got their divine prophet, his enemies their evil incarnate.   <br /> <br />Radzinsky, according to the brief bio provided, is a television personality and playwright. That may explain his flair for building suspense, and for keeping his readers aware of the many mysteries he claims to have solved by acquiring the long lost file of the commission investigating Rasputin's influential role in St. Petersburg and the circumstances of his murder.  The book conveys a surplus of detail about Rasputin, such that it can be difficult at times to see the Siberian forest for the trees.  Still, Radzinsky's Rasputin is well worth a read, if only as a reminder of how the imaginations of otherwise sensible and well-meaning men and women can create a pedestal upon which sit both their hope and fear.	2005-02-03
US	52992589	R3F0P91AW6IIYX	0743244850	264539370	Are You There Alone?: The Unspeakable Crime of Andrea Yates	Books	5	4	6	N	N	The Mistreatment and trial of Andrea Yates	The recent Court decision to over-turn the conviction of Andrea Yates was based in part on the evidence presented in this well-researched book on the \\"unspeakable\\" crime.  Ms. O'Malley caught a number of mistakes in the way Yates was treated and the way her case was presented, but uncovering the erroneous testimony of the prosecution's expert witness, Dr. Park Dietz, was the central factor in discrediting the state's case against Andrea Yates.  By virtue of her careful reporting and analysis, Ms. O'Malley managed, not simply to observe the trial process, but to become one of the most powerful participants in it. It becomes clear in this book that the psychiatric treatment of Yates is one of trial and error, if not downright neglect.  Even reading the transcript of the Dietz interview is enough to convince one that Ms. Yates, whatever she may have known about right from wrong under the McNaughton doctrine, was not in control.  She never doubted her actions were illegal, and she seemed convinced that they morally wrong; yet, at the same time, and in a way that makes her case for insanity that much more provocative -- she seemed convinced that she would be judged  morally wrong for not drowning them, or otherwise ending their lives.  She had talked herself into a tragic corner -- herself inevitably damned, she opted to save her children from the certain damnation that awaited them if, in her warped view, she did not act. No one denies that Ms. Yates suffered from mental illness prior to and at the time of her act.  But the depth seemed to elude a number of people. The endless attempts to get Andrea to specify her thoughts at specific points in time for the purpose of the trial record would be risible but for the fact they were real.  When Dr. Dietz asked her, \\"What were you wearing at the time of the drownings?\\" She responded, \\"clothes.\\" She was so hopelessly operating at a cognitive level that simply didn't fulfill the requirements of an advarsarial system -- and yetshe was there, having been declared sufficiently sane to stand trial.  The decision allowing her to so stand was, in effect, the second tragedy.	2005-01-18
US	52992589	RI7Y5RGIT4AVR	0809045958	68571604	A Fool and His Money: Life in a Partitioned Town in Fourteenth-Century France	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Micro-history....a fine tour of daily life during a long war	Ms. Wroe has done readers a great service in bringing to life the partitioned town of Rodez during the 1300s. This is the type of historical writing that actually permits you to experience the daily life of a city beleagured by the \\"English,\\" who behaved more like roving gangs than soldiers of the Crown, an image difficult to infer from the conventional textbooks that focus on macro-level, sweeping events.  I much prefer this to the historical novel. While such novels always have a grain of truth; it is much more difficult to ascertain where fiction ends and nonfiction begins.  Wroe uses her imagination, to be sure, but she is following archival material and, as a result, we are given allowed the opportunity to see part of an era and its people that might well have escaped our view.	2005-01-03
US	52992589	R349V5050H33KY	0142003476	793576319	Rumpole Rests His Case	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Rumpole at Rest...	The underlying thread in this collection of stories is freedom -- specifically, Rumpole's \\"right\\" to smoke in chambers.  He is more a champion of the underdog than most leftists today, yet maintains a wonderfully conservative suspicion of social engineering.  The stories are stand alone.  The best in my view is the teenage werewolf.  A great read....	2005-01-01
US	52992589	R3KOE523V0XBJD	0195172841	518983628	Word Myths: Debunking Linguistic Urban Legends	Books	4	53	55	N	N	What's in a metro myth?	This book deserves a wide reading.  Its central lesson, as that of the more popular series on urban legends, is this:  Don't believe everything you hear (or see) regarding the origins of words and phrases.  I learned from this book that there were (a) false origins; things I thought I knew but didn't; (b) words whose origin I correctly understood, but about which others are mistaken, and (c) words whose origins I didn't know (and was thus unaware that others held false opinions about).  Both humbling and instructive is category (a). Included here for me is \\"Ring around the Rosie,\\" which I have read in countless reputable texts started its career as a sort of macabre humor for children singing and dancing their way through Europe's 14th century plague.   And, equally unsettling, was the realization that the Chevy \\"NOVA\\" was not a botched marketing campaign by GM in Mexico, and that a guy named Crapper did not in fact invent the toilets we daily flush.  At least, I got \\"google\\" right.  This is a well-written, easily digested romp through the history of words misunderstood by many. It underscores the continuing importance of scepticism, perhaps especially in this, the information age.	2004-12-27
US	52992589	R32MC4IIF39N0X	0446532681	502504625	America (The Book): A Citizen's Guide to Democracy Inaction	Books	5	6	9	N	N	The Daily Show as Diplomat........	I know I'll get copies of this book for Christmas.  I mean,  hell, I'm giving them. I read nearly 1/2 of it aloud in one sitting, rotating with a friend who read nearly the other 1/2.  It's that good. In fact, it's important. I am convinced that this book came not a second too soon.  It is our best Ambassador.  In many countries this book is underground, if it comes into being at all.  Here it's a best seller.  It shows a side of America that can laugh at itself.  Example:  Don't miss the illustrations of campaign buttons, my favorite being a button with a smiling slave owner proudly proclaiming that he cast his slaves' 1/5  vote for so and so! How could they have gotten away with that?  Precisely because the absurdity speaks for itself.   <br /> <br />In the novel, Harlot's Ghost, Norman Mailer's expansive and remarkable  meditation on Cold War America, the book's most interesting character, the intellectually irresistible Kittredge, at one point says \\"I fear our lovely country has become a religion.\\"  That's where this book comes in.  This is a great country precisely because it is self-critical and can submit itself to self-ridicule.  Stay that course!	2004-12-10
US	52992589	RB7WOPSC0NUXW	0375422854	460992127	Good Muslim, Bad Muslim: America, the Cold War, and the Roots of Terror	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Fundamentalism as Distinct From Political Islam	There are some outstanding reviews of this book by amazon readers; additional description would contribute little.  The aim of this book is twofold. First, it wants to demonstrate the extent to which the U.S. helped \\"fuel\\" terrorism through its own actions in Afghanistan.  These actions were, according to Dr. Mamdani, an extension of the US desire to privatize and to rely on proxies to combat the Soviets during the Cold War. In fact, Dr. Mamdani refers throughout to the American, or U.S. jihad. (Note: Dr. Mamdani seems meticulous about the use of that term, at least until he applies to U.S. actions.) Second, Dr. Mamdani wants us to understand exactly how the outward projection of terrorism from within Islam evolved.  The latter objective, emphasized throughout the text, is quite revealing.  His thesis is that the West errs insofar it applies the blanket description, fundamentalism, to what are otherwise quite disparate movements within Islam.  Fundamentalism is a \\"counter-cultural,\\" not a political movement. Within political Islam, society centered Islamists attempt to reconcile democracy and justice, while state centered Islamists eschew popular organization. This book's attempt to enhance our understanding of contemporary Islam is a complex, but worthy and welcome undertaking.  The principal problem with this book is that it is overly ambitious. Dr. Mamdani did us a great service in introducing us to nuances in contemporary Islamic society, and these merit further investigation. His effort to place those in Islam who resort to terror in the context of U.S. 20th century diplomacy -- Central America, Vietnam, Laos, Iran-Contra, the Boland Amendment, Afghanistan, and politics in the Middle East generally -- dilutes his discussion of Islam and its many facets.  <br />	2004-11-30
US	52992589	R14WP5Q2F9WFHK	0679642668	610795891	London: A History (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A well written view from the upper deck of the bus..	A.N. Wilson has compressed in less than 200 pages of lucid prose the history of one of the world's most fasicinating cities. The energy in London is palpable.  \\"Bliss was it\\" to be in that city on any Friday as the tubes crowd with eager, energized bodies at the end of the work week. What's remarkable about London, and a facet of the city that I first learned from Wilon's history, is the extent to which the city has really lacked a stable, governing structure.  For the first nine decades of the 19th century, Wilson notes, London had no democratically elected body charged with responsibility for health, transport, waste, parks and so on.  Indeed, a recurring theme in Wilson is the struggle, which continues to this day, to identify for London a governing structure.  His discussion of the bombing during WWII is worth the price of the book.  Less known, and at once interesting and disconcerting, is Wilson's description of the sale of commercial real estate tracts after the war.  The way those transactions were managed, or not as the case may be, accounts for much of what Wilson finds disagreeable in the London skyline.  Wilson's favorite tourist spot is Sir John Soanne's museum.  I have not seen it. For me, it would be hard to rival Winston Churchill's war rooms.  This small book does justice to a great city, no small feat.	2004-11-09
US	52992589	R1B2NQZVV3OQSY	1859847102	774937414	The Agony of Mammon: The Imperial Global Economy Explains Itself to the Membership in Davos, Switzerland	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Bill Richardson on Iraq	This book describes the Davos scene in winter. Davos, in case you have not received your invitation yet, is where the elite meet on an annual basis to discuss the mega-issues facing mankind.  More precisely, it's where buyers (banks) and sellers (governments) come together to discuss investment possibilities -- risk and reward.  That's all fine, and Lapham's description of the event strikes me as reasonably accurate.  But here's the reason to look at this slim book.  Take a look at the pages wherein Bill Richardson, then the US Secretary to the UN, describes Saddam Hussein and the threat posed.  For a minute, forget that you are reading about views expressed during the Clinton Administration.  Remarkably consistent argument across Administrations.  In Richardson's words, \\"He's asking to be bombed.\\"	2004-11-08
US	52992589	R272QE7Y4J8RY5	0929587782	631827717	Ape and Essence	Books	4	12	14	N	N	The Novel is the Message	Aldous Huxley's Apes and Essence is science fiction combined with the allegorical drive of a Swift's Gulliver's Travels.  It ought to assume a proud place beside other works on retro-futures -- novels like, Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?, and films of the Mad Max genre. Huxley is convinced that we opted for the worst of both worlds -- East and West -- by failing to curb the capability of science with the wisdom and moderation of Eastern mysticism.  Here too is the brave new eugenicsl, and insofar as Huxley is trying to point to this as a future dilemma, he is decisively on track.	2004-11-03
US	52992589	RQ22VJ7YMX9ML	0679779078	226385792	The Shadow of the Sun	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Kapuscinski's excellent adventure	Perhaps the language ought to make a distinction between the well-traveled and the deeply-traveled.  It is, after all, possible to travel the world and never leave 5-star hotel nation.  This, make no mistake about it, is not the path taken by Kapuscinski.  Nor is The Shadow of the Sun another mind-numbing recitation of infra-structure investment needs, legal reforms and the like.  Not, in other words, your standard World Bank report.  Kapuscinski does nothing to reduce his exposure; he finds a cobra next to his bed; is routinely savaged by insects the size of small turtles; recounts the fear in a village once its inhabitants discover that the fish in their river have grown exceptionally large, apparently from feasting on the dead remains of Idi Amin's victims and; he is humbled in an otherwise festive gathering when a rogue elephant invites himself to the party. He covers all this exceptional ground with a prose that stays lucid (or is exceptionally well-translated or both), and precise.  His language is grounded, thankfully avoiding the mystic prose that often pours from writers that encounter worlds that defy easy classification and comforting predictability.  It would seem to take a lifetime to understand the complexity of Africa.  To read Kapuscinski is, in my view,  to take a crash intro-course. The Shadow of the Sun, broad as it is, is still a sample.  It's posssible to find in Africa successful, modern enterprises.  And, that too is part of the puzzle.  Everything seems posssible there -- all that was past still resides, while the future makes what inroads it can.  There are wonderful, communal moments in this book, and divisive clan-based savergy.  Kindness, cruelty; honesty, theft; promise and peril: all this and more in this slender volume, captured by a master of his craft.	2004-10-26
US	52992589	R3KIZ6UYFTJ7VQ	0385507372	497088476	Lone Star Nation: How a Ragged Army of Volunteers Won the Battle for Texas Independence - and Changed America	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A great story, well told	Texas is sure of itself today, certain and confident of its place in the nation.  Native Texans have occupied the White House, and held countless other positions of power, whether direct (Secretary James Baker) or indirect (e.g.,Colonel House under Wilson). That Texas was at once vastly uncertain as to its identity comes through clearly in Professor Brand's sharply written history.  Austin came to Texas in fulfillment of his father's dying wish to colonize the state.  To do so, he and countless others were willing to pledge allegiance to the Mexican flag.  They were supportive of Santa Anna's commitment to federalism at one point (and then fought Santa Anna, and then sent him to Washington on their behalf, and fought him again, and embraced him later; he had, Brands' says, \\"more lives than a cat\\").  When the break with Mexico came, Texas experienced a period of independence during which she flirted with both Great Britain and France, and left open the possibility that if she were not annexed to the U.S., she might serve herself well by becomming a pawn in the efforts of both countries to halt U.S. expansion. Brands excells at biographical description -- Austin, Houston, Bowie, Crocket, and the rest are superbly rendered in his text. As to the lot of them,  let it suffice to say that the founding fathers of Texas were not men who entered the region to \\"top off\\" already successful careers.  Perhaps as a result, Texas, until the end of the civil war, seemed to represent, writ large, her anxious, impressionable and undisciplined founders.  If the pioneers of Texas agreed on anything, it was that Texas was to be a new beginning. That dream went unfulfilled -- the withered \\"raisin in the sun\\" of Langston Hughes' imagery.  This is because, try as it might, Texas, and the Texicans and tejanos never quite escaped being drawn into the vortex of larger forces, and the stress of pre-existing conflicts.  What a great tale the Lone Star Nation conveys.	2004-10-08
US	52992589	R14E5Z7BB9RSIF	0415266734	746174692	Causes of the English Revolution, 1529-1642	Books	4	17	17	N	N	When reforms turn revolutionary.......	In 1640 few supported the dissolution of the monarchy or the House of Lords...The heart of this book is its long chapter on the causes of the English revolution.  That revolution, Stone maintains, was in a real sense caused by the dissolution of government (rather than causing its dissolution); that \\"class\\" warfare along Marxist explanatory lines is not applicable to the revolution and; that the revolution was more than a reaction to unpopular monarch.  He then sets out to identify the long-term, underlying causes of the war and its more proximate catalysts.  His discussion of the weak reach of the Tudor bureaucracy and its corresponding lack of credibility as a legal enforcer, and his discussion of the impact of Puritan thought are especially compelling. <br />The first section of the book surveys the methodological issues involved in explaining revolution.  This survey, though somewhat dated by now, still provides useful insights.  And, he has a caustic eye for those of his colleagues who prefer an arid, artifically technical jargon over clarity and concise prose.	2004-10-06
US	52992589	R2KLOXQ0NTOVV6	0786700262	721271373	Earthly Powers (Burgess, Anthony)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A tour de force of 20th century power, earthly and otherwise	It simply astounds me that, while much of Burgess remains in print, this novel, which together with A Clockwork Orange is his very best, is out of print, and downright difficult to find.  <br />Like several reviewers, I took the time to re-read this massive text, having first read it over twenty years ago. The narrator is a homosexual, at relative peace with his proclivity, but not the price extracted by societal mores. Still, as one astute reviewer noted, this is a novel of unintended consequences. Thus, the novel's protagonist, Kenneth Toomey, is ultimately aligned with the most conservative elements of the Catholic church, indeed, becomes, through the marriage of his sister, a much maligned member of a prominent Catholic family, one member of which advances considerably through the Vatican hierarchy.  Between the pages of this novel, Burgess manages to sweep through the 20th century, the gradual trends and the cataclysmic changes.  To be sure, the book can grow tedious in parts, especially when Mr. Toomey is describing any number of operatic or dramatic plots on which he's involved as a writer (his vocation).  That is a small price to pay for a novel as successfully ambitious and sweeping as this one.  It deserves a new edition. After all, the twentieth century appears poised to cast a long shadow.	2004-09-08
US	52992589	R1GO12QTKY6PT0	0345324250	589824021	The Zimmermann Telegram	Books	5	9	10	N	N	When the data spoke louder than words	In forceful, confident prose Ms. Tuchman describes an incident in U.S. history which, if not forgotten, is probably not sufficiently appreciated for its current relevance.  President Wilson labored hard to avoid U.S. entry into the Great War; his aim, even on the eve of U.S. involvement, was to win the peace by making himself available to both sides as the honest broker.  His efforts to remain neutral had its critics, notably Theodore Roosevelt, but by and large his position mirrored that of the public at large.  One critical factor that helped move Wilson from neutrality to belligerence was the uncovering, by British intelligence, of the Zimmerman telegram.  That telegram revealed Germany's attempts to forge an alliance with Mexico and thus distract the U.S. from the European theatre.  In return, and upon a \\"certain\\" German victory, Mexico was promised the restoration of its former holdings -- Texas, Arizona, New Mexico and California.  While the telegram was a factor in Wilson's volte face, it was by far the most important factor in the creation of a popular, pre-war sentiment in the U.S. electorate.    Why relevant? Wilson's decision to enter the war was delayed until that point in time when empirical data compelled him to abandon neutrality. In contrast, President Bush invaded Iraq on the presumption, based on intelligence, that WMD would be uncovered.  Was Wilson right? Perhaps not.  He may well have waited too long.  Was Bush wrong? Perhaps not, given the behavior of Saddam Hussein with respect to inspections prior to the war. The Zimmerman telegram is not a \\"morality tale,\\" but it constitutes a fascinating case study on the interplay between data and decision-making at the highest levels of government.	2004-08-22
US	52992589	R30RSL9UW3C55N	0679728864	29155702	The Enchanter	Books	5	13	13	N	N	"The story resides in the introspection..."	That insight, about introspection itself constituting the story, is made by Dmitri Nabokov in an essay appended to The Enchanter. As many have noted in so many words,  \\"The Enchanter\\" lacks Humbert Humbert's appeal. Still, Nabokov permits us to see in the enchanter, perhaps more succintly than in Lolita, the introspective anxiety of an outwardly ordinary man driven mad by his single-minded obsession with an eternally adolescent female, at least eternal younth \\"was the carnal postulate.\\" He can neither ignore her as as an object of his desire, nor bring himself to rationalize adequately her hold on him.  Indeed, he can empathize with  her disgust as he envisions himself through her eyes, a \\"monstrosity, some ghastly disease.\\" The book's opening sentence, a question, signals the ordeal that is about to unfold, \\"How can I come to terms with myself?\\" And, the answer is that he cannot; he cannot gain the distance he needs from his moral framework.  He is both sinner and judge; without control,insane and yet damned as a morally responsible soul.	2004-08-17
US	52992589	R11MOAVD34QUVU	0606022945	802369838	The Bell Jar	Books	4	1	1	N	N	On Surmounting the &quot;Factitious&quot;	That word, &quot;factitious,&quot; according to Sylvia Plath, was used by one of her creative writing professors to characterize one of her submissions, &quot;The big weekend.&quot; I doubt he would read anything &quot;factitious&quot; into The Bell Jar. If anything, Ms. Plath takes pains to ensure that readers understand the depth of her psychological pain in a prose that can be vivid, even stunning. My one problem is that her own self-loathing overwhelms all else; by the novel's end, her biting sarcasm and stubborn bitterness had begun to grate. Still, there is no doubt that she demonstrates in this book the mastery of her craft, a mastery even more apparent in her poetry. I strongly recommend this novel; both its weakness and its extrodinary strengths are instructive. What a loss she was...	2004-08-02
US	52992589	R12CAN2DSBA6FV	067975704X	159340689	Dark Continent: Europe's Twentieth Century	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The non-inevitable triumph of democracy in Europe	The central thesis of Dark Continent is that the triumph of democracy in Europe was in no way preordained; rather, it emerged as the victor in an &quot;unremitting struggle&quot; between three rival ideologies: fascism, communism and liberal democracy. This struggle was at the heart of European 20th century history. Prior to the Great War, Europe had three republics; after 1918, there were thirteen. Yet, democracy was unable to secure itself in the interwar years. In fact, by the 1930's liberalism &quot;looked tired,&quot; and the &quot;will and action&quot; that appeared to be the hallmark of fascism and communism gained widespread appeal on the continent. The real end of WWII, which began with the reconstruction of Italy in 1943, left two ideologies standing: communism and democracy. Even on the eve of its demise, most analysts assumed that communism would reform itsel, rather than disintegrate. It was thus not until 1989 that &quot;cooperation&quot; began to replace &quot;competition&quot; as the modus operandi of European nation-states. This book manages to provide a holistic view of 20th century Europe while retaining a description of specific events about which I knew little. I include in the latter his discussion of the first German model colony in south of Lublin in Zamosc, the vast migration of Germans in the aftermath of the war and the decision, at leat outside France, not to pursue for prosecution the established arms of the state, particularly the police force. This book ought to put to rest any distinction between the &quot;old&quot; and the &quot;new&quot; Europe. Mazower informs us that continent itself has only recently found its footing after a hundred years of turmoil.	2004-07-26
US	52992589	R1EXR4E34RN6VH	0451527704	887884219	An American Tragedy (Signet Classics)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Does this plot sound familiar?  Laci Peterson......	Laci Peterson you are not alone...  In the beginning of the 20th century, in up-state New York, a very real and tragic event occurred and became the basis for Dreisser's novel, An American Tragedy.   Clyde Griffiths, the central character of this novel, fell out of love with a co-worker, Roberta Alden, but not before she became pregnant with his child. Clyde fell madly, hopelessly in love with a younger, captivating and much wealthier woman, Sondra. So, Roberta and baby drown, initially mysteriously.  The boat is recovered and found to have been rented to Clyde.  Later, of course, Mr. Griffiths is charged with the crime, and his affair with Sondra is disclosed, though the media refer to Sondra as Miss X.  Nothing but circumstantial evidence connects him to the crime.<BR>What is &quot;American&quot; about this tragedy? I think the answer resides in Clyde's aspirations, their impact on all he touches, and the impact of the his past on the drive to dream fulfillment.  Once Roberta has drown, Clyde swims to the shore of the lake, a new immigrant, a young man on the verge of what he hopes will be a new and glamorous world.  It is, as one critic described, a vapid world, but it is what he wants nonethless.  Behind him, at the bottom of that lake, rests his past -- a world of poverty, a world without opportunity, the world of his childhood. He came to that Lake with the intention of killing Roberta, but was spared the trouble.  She fell overboard and all he had to do was nothing, simply let mom and baby sink, while he swims quietly to shore.  But the past is not so easily shed. It sticks to him and ultimately brings him to trial for his actions, or his failure to act, and his intent to kill. Readers of this book might benefit from reading Elizabeth Hardwick's provocative, essay, &quot;Seduction and Betrayal,&quot; though I think she errs in her contention that &quot;the whole drive of the novel is to make us feel Clyde's loss...&quot; Rather the whole drive of the novel isto make us feel that Clyde and everyone he touched lost.  Drawn to a new world, but unable to shed the old, he drags everyone and everything down with him.  <BR>Trust me:  no one will every say, &quot;Gee, I wish An American Tragedy had been a bit longer.&quot;  The novel is exhausting, unpredicatable and at times almost amateurish in its flow.  Still, it has an infectious quality about it and, most unfortunately, continues to resonate.	2004-07-17
US	52992589	R3NBMFD1XOM4O0	0801442923	475007934	State-Building: Governance and World Order in the 21st Century	Books	5	1	5	N	N	&quot;It's Back,&quot; And This Time It Means Business	Francis Fukuyama provides in this slender volume a solid diagnosis of one of the most daunting obstacles impeding global security today.  Specifically, Fukuyama's central argument is that the creation of new government institutions and the strenghtening of existing ones are the most important tasks we face at this point in history.  Policy-makers have an impressive record when it comes to the dismantling, largely through the privatization of functions, of modern states; the ability to build sustainable political institutions is another matter.  Developing countries -- at least the &quot;majority&quot; of them according to Mr. Fukuyama -- simply don't demand institutional reform.  When reform has been imposed upon them, usually as a condition for the receipt of multi-lateral loans, the donor countries lack the patience to foster the requisite indigenous skills.  The bulk of Mr. Fukuyama's text is an analysis of the distinc nature of, and unique problems posed by political insitutions in general -- that is, the ambiguity of goals, insufficient performance measures and, most significantly, the problem of delegating discretion.  <BR>The upshot of this analysis is that there is no &quot;one-size-fits-all&quot; organizational template that, as a drug to a disease, can be confidently applied across the board to bolster weak states.  Globalization compounds the problem to the extent that its tendency is to erode the autonomy of the sovereign state.  Similarly, the modern premise that governing legitimacy is exclusively derived from the consent of the governed through democratic processes (where is old-fashioned colonialism when you need it), runs the risk of raising expectations in developing countries that may very well be unrealistic, at least in the short-term.  As Mr. Fukuyama notes, this is an area that will require significant research in the future.  Nation-state building is not a new challenge, but is has never presented itself with the level of urgency we witness today. And, finally, that &quot;end of history&quot; notion.  Read this book and  you'll discover that not everybody is having the &quot;end of history&quot; experience.	2004-07-13
US	52992589	R2I236ZKV2XBUY	1400042372	262455471	Power, Terror, Peace, and War: America's Grand Strategy in a World at Risk	Books	2	17	22	N	N	"...it does not take a Metternich to notice..all's not well	Don't judge a book by its size: the scope of this small book is immense and its proposals, put forward in a balanced, bi-partisan spirit, deserve serious consideration.  My two complaints are: (1) As in many books in international affairs, the recommendations -- some of his best material -- are held to the very end of the show.  By then, I'm afraid some of the audience may have left for home, missing a set of very interesting observations. (2) He takes President Bush to task for failing to prepare the American people for the level of effort required to stabilize Iraq.  He is not alone in that criticism. But I think there were significant limits to what the Administration could have done in that area. American expectations were anchored in Desert Storm and, no matter the argument, those expectations were not to be easily budged.   <br />Now, back to the Mead's Metternich line --  what's not wrong,  is the American project. That project consists of the efforts of the U.S. to bolster its own security while building a peaceful world order of democratic states linked by their adherence to the global market (and capitalism generally).  Working from the premise that the project is sound, Mr. Mead wrote this book for the purpose of improving our ability to realize the objectives of the project.  In doing so, he covers a considerable amount of history, for he is keen to show how, despite our underlying success over the past century and the last decade in particular, forces below the surface and barely discernible developed like a \\"gathering storm\\" in opposition.  The decline of the Fordist state, with its emphasis on productivity, but its allowance for a scope of state action, created hostility to the project among poliltical elites. And, not surprisingly, at century's end, a broad mistrust developed over the rising wealth and power inherent in pax Americana. According Mead, to secure the American project in the 21st century, American must take a greater interest in buildinga stronger institutional base for global governance.  Here, I think, the challenge is immense. Domestically, probably only Republicans can lead that charge; internationally, I fear that only Democrats will be sufficiently trusted, at least while the Bush Administration reigns. I think Mead is right about the need to bolster global governance, including regional institutions; so I hope I'm wrong about the obstacles posed.  His final pages, about how it is critical to unleash the forces of global market mechanisms to the relief of intense poverty are absolutely spot on. Perhaps Mead's next project might explore that important objective at greater depth.	2004-06-30
US	52992589	R308A0E1K2XKR4	1560255854	717894827	Imperial America: Reflections on the United States of Amnesia (Nation Books)	Books	3	16	52	N	N	Vidal .... In Syndication	If you are just dying to know what Gore Vidal thought about the late President Ronald Reagan, and the 1980s in general, this is your book.  Political commentary is a tough market.  The fruit ages quickly.  Thus, much of this book ought to be &quot;off the shelf&quot; by now.  Mr. Vidal does provide some views on President Bush and other timely topics.  One observation I have to contest: Mr. Vidal's image of the President as a boy dreaming  safe in bed while imposing warped visions on the people.  That image -- of the dreamer -- with us as the victims of whatever nightmares his fantasy conjures, is undeserved.  Name an American President who has had the horrifying experience of Airforce 1 being re-directed and escorted by fighter pilots as on September 11? The idea that the President is not exposed to risk is simply empirically false.  More important, I simply do not believe Vidal's implicit assumption that the President is detached emotionally from the decisions he makes. Whether Vidal likes those decisions or not, the President has skin in the game.  One observation, however, does merit attention, and it concerns the founding fathers.  I believe that Vidal is much closer to the truth, than are many modern commentators,  when he assesses the religious propensity of our founding fathers.  By the standards of many in the main line movement of Christian thinking, our founding fathers would lack the moral scruples and the solidity of belief required to gain the fundamentalist Christian vote in any election.	2004-06-18
US	52992589	R1HF5FV8BSF6M9	0743422996	9400276	The Mystery of the Aleph: Mathematics, the Kabbalah, and the Search for Infinity	Books	4	0	0	N	N	On the inifinity that comes next...	I would never have imagined that a quest this abstract could entail a story so human.  Yet, that is exactly what Amir Aczel provides in this smooth tale of the many humbling encounters with the realm of infinity.<br />There are two lessons from this compact survey on the effort expended and the toll imposed on those bold enough to go where no person can go.  First, the urge to comprehend infinity is an ancient quest and inextricably tied to the effort to ascertain the nature of God.  Second, getting to know infinity can be massively bad for one's mental health.  Mr. Aczel manages an almost impossible task (infinity tends to do that) in this text.  He is (a) attempting to survey an enormous amount of the history mathematics and, to some extent, religion, and (b) providing a glimpse into the lives of those mathematicians that have ventured into this field.  At the heart of this book is Georg Cantor, founder of modern set theory.  Cantor sought to transcent an intuitive understanding of infinity.  He sought an ordered system; specifically he sought to prove what became known as the continuim hypothesis:  basically, that the lowest order of infinity (some cardinal numbere) was followed by the cardinal number, c (thus permitting Cantor to give ordere to his transfinite numbers).  Against this hypothesis stood the possibility, urged by any number of Cantor's opponents, of infininty somewhere before one reached c.  The search to prove what Godel later demonstrated to be an undecidable hypothesis may well have led Cantor (and Godel for that matter) to madness.  At minimum it may have activated any underlying predisposition to mental illness in both men.  They were not, as Aczels's discussion of the Kabbalists shows, inifinity's first victims.  Aczel has provided a balanced and very human exploration into a topic that draws its victims as a moth to the flames.	2004-06-18
US	52992589	RGHGRFL7P8HJ0	1400032717	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Saying What You Mean, Meaning What You Say	This novel deserves a wide readership.  Written from the perspective of an intellectually gifted but emotionally challenged young man, Christopher John Francis Boone, the language in the novel is straightforward; the plot readily clear. This book merits a receptive readership across a wide age group, from young adolescents to adult readers.  Although it can be approached from a range of angles, my interest was sustained by the truth-telling propensity of young Christopher.  Truth matters to Christopher, and language as a vehicle for conveying the truth matters, in its way, as much to him as his mathematics. Yet, as this novel shows, in the world of mature, work-a-day adults, what matters is not truth, but the emotional consequences of it.  Just as Christopher is insistent on truth-telling, he is surrounding by adults who have a greater interest in concealing the truth as a means to shelter young Christopher from its consequences. A fast, wonderful read, this book could, in my view, supplant any number of required classics that middle and high-school students are today required to digest.  Here's hoping its attains the status it deserves!	2004-06-14
US	52992589	R3SWB7JSGRG96Q	0786711035	723656217	Beasts (Otto Penzler Books)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Harem of Andre Harrow...	The cover of the paperback edition of this book contains detail from a 18th century painting by Henry Fussell entitled, Nightmare.  Precisely the right selection, since much of the action of this novel takes place under cover of darkness, as the young women of Catamount College near the Berkshires inexorably succumb, as though under a trance, to the dark world of Andre Harrow, professor of literature at Catamount, and his wife, Dorcas, an artist specializing in the display of wood carved totems.  This is a hypnotic tale; you cannot abandon Gillian once you meet her and you cannot fail to watch the evolution of her obssession with the house on Brierely (sic) Lane and the dark, manipulative couple that calls it home.  More than half-way through this short, tightly written masterpiece, Joyce Carol Oates writes:  &quot;How obsession takes root, like a virulent weed.&quot; And so it does take hold of Gillian.  <BR>At the beach, the airport, at home or abroad, this superbly written tale keeps you glued.  This novel, like an intense dream, absorbs you completely.	2004-06-06
US	52992589	R7MI5VXWR647Y	0965000095	344825857	Ravelstein	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Not Bellow's Best	Near the end of this novel the narrator, Chick, life-long friend of Ravelstein (presumably Allan Bloom of the University of Chicago), describes a serious episode of heart failure.  These pages are remarkably well-done, but like much of this novel, it's hard to find much on Ravelstein in these pages.  Mr. Bellow somewhere in effect admits that his medical problems may be a bit of a departure from the main story line.  Fair enough.  Unfortunately, the story is a rambling set of recollections; it is difficult to discard anything, and just about everything is fair game in this novel that manages, despite its inclusiveness, to give short shirft to its central character, Ravelstein.  When we do meet him, we find precious little exceptional. His materialism is right out of the GQ &quot;central casting&quot; department.  We're assured he studied the classics, but when is beyond me, given his propensity to shop. If you want to know about Professor Bloom, you would do much better going directly to the source, particularly his translation of Plato's Republic.  You won't learn much about Bloom's apparent weakness for tailored, crisply laundered (wrapped, not on hangers, Bellow assures us) shirts, but you'll get much closer than Ravelstein can bring you to understanding his exceptional mind.	2004-06-03
US	52992589	R2TIVR3TWQK3EK	1931561486	970770587	The Contortionist's Handbook	Books	4	18	23	N	N	What's in a Name?	The polydactyl protagonist of this exceptional novel is working hard to evade everyone, not least himself.  He is a masterful teacher, and this book will take you into the art of false identification (at least I take the book as a valid description) from passports, to birth and death certificates, and all the myriad of data points that converge to define an individual in the modern world.  One of the published reviews on this web site claimed that it suffered from a lack of plot, but I think the review somewhat misses the driving force in this novel -- it is not trying to save his girlfriend, Keara, nor is it trying to trick the &quot;evaluator,&quot;; rather, he's trying to evade himself. We are in the world of &quot;head games&quot; here, so it's a bit wide of the mark to compare this to a Tarrantino action/plot drive.  In this handbook, it is the self on contorted display.	2004-05-25
US	52992589	RKFH6INCKVBD9	0156028778	990216712	The Crimson Petal and the White	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Now sleeps the crimson petal, now the white...	An elegant and brilliant novel.  This is an adult novel; indeed, it becomes clear that the London of the 1870s described vividly in this densely packed tome is a realm of adulthood. Only the most sheltered souls, Mr. Rackman's daughter, Sophie is one, manage to retain a fragile innocence.  But the book's plot is summarized neatly elsewhere.  I'll just mention the effect of the novel. What I found remarkable is Faber's ability to transform the reader into a voyeur.  He takes you by the hand, but you follow willingly.  He tells you to keep your eye on Sugar, a prostitute worth watching in a nameless sea of prostitutes.  And in fact you are transfixed.  The author knows her story's worth the candle. He has seen them all.  And you will lament ever having to leave her.	2004-05-19
US	52992589	R3NF358Z8Q4RBR	0618230653	467666077	The Midnight Disease: The Drive to Write, Writer's Block, and the Creative Brain	Books	5	47	51	N	N	When writers are driven......	Hypergraphia, about which I knew nothing prior to reading this book, is the medical term for an over-powering desire to write.  Writing, Dr. Flaherty tell us, is the domain of the cerebral cortex, but the desire to write is the domain of the limbic system -- the hypothalamus and the structures of the temporal lobe.  It is altered temporal lobe activity that is associated with creativity.  On the other hand, frontal lobe processes are involved in writer's block. This area, as science, struck me as new and very much evolving.  The most interesting section of the book, even more speculative than the location of writing proclivities, is her commentary on the inner voice and its role in writing.  This is an area where strands fuse -- religion, creativity, psychosis.  For Dr. Flaherty it was one morning &quot;that bristled with significance.  The way a crow flapped its wings as it rose heavily off the ground was a semaphore, signalling something just past my understanding.&quot;  And not long after she heard, &quot;the opposite of writer's block,&quot; her signal to write about hypergraphia.  This internal/external presence of a voice became manifest to her following a depression brought on by the death of twin infants.  Remarkably, if not miraculously, she later gave birth to another set of twins, thriving at the time of her writing.  This is an unusual book.  She interweaves her personal history and her clinical training.  Coupled with a wide and diverse reading, Dr. Flaherty demonstrates in this book an intense mind; reading her is like riding with a mind in over-drive. I look forward to her next book, and she has all but assured us that one is in the making.	2004-04-21
US	52992589	R1G31VRS19WOUI	0895261294	206337612	Legacy: Paying the Price for the Clinton Years	Books	5	13	20	N	N	"thou much was taken, much abides"	Lowry's focus is on principally three areas, the policy legacy, the legacy of scandal and the legacy of international affairs.  On the policy front Clinton exagerrated the economic slowdown bequeathed to him, and oversold the economic boom. Still, Lowry concedes he avoided many of the traditional liberal signals that often make for a nervous market. Lowry's description of the Administration attempt at a socio-sexual revolution in the military is worth the price of the book, as is the description of the health care monolith that the Administration tried to impose.  On the scandal side, Lowry focuses on fund-raising and Lewinsky. I wish he had spent more time on the last-minute pardon, since there is comparatively less in the public record on that event. In international relations, the legacy was one of missed opportunities. It was a legacy, in Lowry's view, that left us ill-prepared.  The Administration, he claims, simply failed to appreciate and respond to the signals before it: the first bombing of the WTC, Somalia, Khobar, the USS Cole and others.  In this area, Lowry case is weakest. Not because he is wrong necessarily, but because the focus on any one Administration, and any one branch of the government is simply not sufficiently complete.  Exactly why we were not better prepared will not so easily be resolved.  The roots of that problem transcend any one Administration.  In that respect both Lowry and Clarke, in Against All Enemies, ought to be read, but neither should be viewed as the last word.	2004-04-08
US	52992589	RUF3HIHFF9QHY	0743260244	924900643	Against All Enemies: Inside America's War on Terror	Books	5	4	4	N	N	How To Read Richard Clarke:  Non-Partisan Lessons	The aim of this review is to provide a non-partisan summary of Mr. Clarke's text. To be sure, Mr. Clarke is critical of the Bush Administration -- that much is clear.  His criticism of the Administration is that it paid insufficient attention to terrorism prior to 9/11, and then fought a war with Iraq that diverted resources from the war on terror, increased the probability of terrorist action against the U.S. by unintentionally generating new Arab recruits to the war on terror and adversely affected the ability of our military by \\"over-stretching\\" it.   But his thesis, and the scope of the book, is larger than his criticism of the Bush Administration. Clarke's central point is that our difficulties with fighting terrorism stem from a deadly combination of historical mis-steps, all arguably unintentional, and stubborn, systematic institutional failings.  <br />The book itself starts with a fast-paced, readable account of September 11th, and the environment within the White House on that day, and the days immediately following. One can't help being glued to this account.  Clarks then shifts to the larger picture:  the origins of our difficulties with those in the Arab world that pursue terrorism.  That origin, Clarke finds, was in the Reagan Administration.  Clarke applauds Reagan's strategy for ending the Cold War, including the successful effort in Afghanistan, but he notes that the strategy had unintended consequences that had made the future more difficult.  Specifically, there was an over-reliance on Pakistan and a corresponding inability to influence Afghanistan directly, even if we had shown the will to do so, which sadly, he claims, we did not (p. 52-53). Second, while Clarke supported the decision not to \\"go to Baghdad\\" in the first Gulf War, he believes we seriously mis-calculated in not defending at all adequately the Kurds and the Shia (p. 66).  Our reputation in the Arab world suffered because of it.   <br />Even if one disagrees with Clarke on his assessment of these and other events, Clarke argues that there are still systematic problems that inhibit Washington's ability to deal with terrorism, and much of the book is focused on those contextual problems.   What he finds is an environment in Washington that, in many respects, works against the ability to combat and/or prevent terrorism. For example, two \\"big hurdles\\" to the creation of new and effective security measures are (1) the left-right political opposition manifested in the combined NRA/ACLU opposition to legislation or other such measures and; (2) the FBI's objective to retain its existing primacy in domestic security (p. 255).  Not surprisingly, personalities matter enormously and they can be an obstacle -- as Treasury Secretary Rubin was less amenable to efforts to view existing law as enabling him to pursue terrorist funding (pursue at a level Clarke would find satisfactory).  His successor, Larry Summers, was much more flexible. Partisanship can be a problem during transitions because an in-coming Administration can be dis-inclined to accept initiatives begun by a prior Administration of the opposing party (pp. 195-196).  Other such institutional shortcomings cripple the nation's ability to deal adequately with terrorism.  <br />Unfortunately, there is even a bigger problem.  This problem may not be unique to America, but we have paid dearly for it.   Clarke is very good at proposing counter-factuals, or in Niall Ferguson's words, \\"virtual history\\" questions.  He poses the following:  If we had stopped 9/11, would that have prompted us to take the measures necessary to stop any future terrorist acts in the U.S. of comparable magnitude?  His answer is sobering:  \\"At some point there would probably still have been a horrific attack that would have required the U.S. to respond massively to eliminate Al Qaeda and its network...(p. 238).  \\"Al Qaeda had emerged from the soil after the Cold War like some long dormant plague, it was on a path of its own, andit would not be swayed.  And America, alas, seems only to respond well to disasters, to be undistracted by warnings.\\" American waits for, and appears to need the \\"awful calamity\\" to validate the warning signals.<BR>I gave this book 5 stars because, whatever one thinks of Clarke within he partisan debate, there are powerful lessons for both parties, and for the country in general, in his forceful text.  With this book, as in numerous other instances, as least as far as I can tell, Mr. Richard Clarke has served his country well.	2004-03-28
US	52992589	RYJUO0JOTYKOR	0786125659	510021043	Future of Freedom	Books	5	11	11	N	N	&quot;And the survey says........&quot;	Mr. Zakaria's thesis is that we live in a democratic age, but we'd be better off with less democracy, not more. &quot;By this,&quot; he means, not that we should &quot;embrace strongmen and dictators but rather we should ask why certain institutions -- the Federal Reserve and the Supreme Court -- function so well and why others -- such as legislatures -- function poorly.&quot;  The thesis is intended not just for the United States, but on a global scale; Singapore would not, arguably, be where it is had it been captured by special interests, as too often happens in democracies.  Zakaria, following Richard Holbrooke, is concerned about the proliferation of illiberal democracies -- that is, governments in which the majority rule, thus satisfying democracy's procedural requirement, but which produce substantive outcomes at odds with Constitutional democracy -- protection of minority rights, property, due process and the like. <BR>This is a wide-ranging book.  In its sweep he offers a quick survey of the evolution of liberty in the West, and a discussion of Islam and liberty which addresses the way Islam has evolved outside the Middle East, where, he correctly notes, most of its believers reside. In the end, he lands almost precisely where James Madison started; that is, he views with disdain direct democracy and opts for a Republican form of government for the U.S. <BR>The problem with this book is not its thesis, which is as sound today as when Madison first articulated it. The real challenge is in attempting to achieve Zakaria's aim in a world that places a premium on transparency, the flow of information and individual empowerment.  It's not clear that citizens will today easily tolerate the level of delegation that Zakaria proposes.  In fact, there have been times relatively recently, as during the New Deal, when the Supreme Court itself has had its jurisdiction seriously challenged. We would benefit tremendously if Mr. Zakaria would channel his intellectual giftstoward the development of other options.  Until then, the Future of Freedom, for all its virtues, is going to seem like an exhortation to swim like mad against a really strong current.	2004-03-21
US	52992589	RAV7NO5NJAIL9	1569245134	747987059	Party of One: The Loners' Manifesto	Books	5	6	6	N	N	&quot;I know what it means to be alone&quot;  Good times, bad times	Loners are much maligned, misunderstood and, at the extremes, mistreated.  Anneli Rufus wants to clear the air about them.  It is not, she insists, sociopathic to choose to be by oneself, to prefer an urban sea of strangers to the familiar faces of the quaint small town. That such a defense is even necessary stems partly from the tendency of the media to label serial killers and others as &quot;loners,&quot;  when in fact they are very often quite social. She argues, as I have long suspected, that major criminals are friendless once they have been accused.  (It's the &quot;success has a thousand fathers, but failure is an orphan,&quot; problem.)  In fact, it's her position that a tendency to be a loner and to be creative co-vary quite a bit. If you find that you are shy, or otherwise inclined to detachment and, at the same time, find that others are puzzled, if not hostile, toward your inclinations, this book will provide you with a solid foundation for explaining and defending the often overwhelming desire to find comfort in the very absence of companionship.	2004-03-08
US	52992589	R21PDO9EOGPCT9	0842373624	806511644	The Passion: Photography from the Movie "The Passion of the Christ"	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Fitting Tribute to The Passion	An excellent value, this book captures some of the film's most profound moments in vivid photographs -- the Agony in the Garden, the torture by Roman guards, the bearing of the cross and numerous other, unforgettable moments in the film are captured between these pages.  The book also has detailed citations of the scriptures that show the extent to which Mr. Gibson followed the literal reading of the Gospel.  A superb value in its own right quite apart from being a companion to the film.  As far the film, one caution:  this film is rated R, but younger children watching the film with parents (at least when I saw it) had a hard time of it.  If parents take their children, they ought to prepare them and take an active role in trying to explain and understand the The Passion.	2004-03-02
US	52992589	R1M1ALU8IGHUKN	0060614803	465544904	Who Killed Jesus?: Exposing the Roots of Anti-Semitism in the Gospel Story of the Death of Jesus	Books	4	17	27	N	N	Another Angle on the Mel Gibson's Film	I saw Crossan interviewed during a television special prior to the opening of Mel Gibson's The Passion.  I knew, based on that interview, that he would dissent from the story conveyed in that film, and therewith from the literal reading of the Gospels as related to the passion of Jesus Christ. The film itself, which I saw last night, is a deeply moving, almost traumatic experience. Crossan's book, Who Killed Jesus? will be rejected by many believers prima facie, simply by virtue of his presumption that one should place the Gospels in their historical context rather than read them at face value.  Crossan defines the problem as follows: &quot;Jesus stands before a Roman governor who declares him innocent and wants him released while a Jewish crowd declares him guilty and wants him crucified.  The crowd wins.  Is that scene Roman history, or Christian propaganda?&quot;  Elsewhere, he asks, is it history remembered, or prophecy historicized? As an example, early-on he concludes that the three-hour eclipse, the darkness at high noon, foretold in Amos, was not an historical event, but an emendation to the written record for the purpose of establishing a link with a prophecy, and therewith winning believers.  Again, many readers will reject Crossan's methods from the outset: divine revelation does not require interpretative feats.  Crossan is not for everybody.  But those who have read the Gospel narratives and view the film but remain curious about alternative interpretations, will find it in Crossan.	2004-02-26
US	52992589	R15O5WVCS4O5BS	0674012070	332571995	Lessons of the Masters (Charles Eliot Norton Lectures)	Books	5	43	48	N	N	&quot;Many times I've wondered, how much there is to know....&quot;	Let's get some things on the table.  George Steiner can infuriate any reader.  The sheer depth and scope of his reading can intimidate.  He is opinionated, and often blunt about it:  &quot;Our heritage in the west is that of Jerusalem, Athens, and Rome...Our alphabet of recognition is that developed by &quot;dead white males.&quot; He finds inspiration in places that are simply not located on the maps that most of us use: &quot;Today,&quot; he notes in passing, &quot;only the classicist and the medievalist know of Stratius.&quot;  (One wants to add, &quot;yes, both of them.&quot;) Here's what you need to do:  Completely set all of that aside and delve into Lessons of the Masters.  I have never read a book that so accurately managed to explore the complex dynamics involved in the teacher/student relationship.  And not just those relationships as maniffested in the standard classroom that readily comes to mind, but in the music conservatory (see the  section on Natalie Boulanger) and the football field (see his discussion of Knute Rockne).  Even Judas, whose betrayal will once again be under the micro-scope given Mel Gibson's forthcoming film, is explained in the master/disciple context -- a &quot;flawed love for his master, a desire to be singled out...&quot; <br />Steiner, almost alone as far as I can tell, has dared to account for the impulses toward fidelity, trust, seduction and betrayal in teaching and apprenticeship.  &quot;There is,&quot; Mr. Steiner maintains, &quot;no craft more privileged than teaching.&quot;  Mr. Steiner must have been a master teacher, if this book is any indication.  Oh, to have been alive at that seminar....	2004-02-24
US	52992589	R3LFFJRLHI58YN	0449006972	71254966	Gertrude and Claudius: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	&quot;The King was irate.&quot;	With that sentence begins each of the three parts of this novel.  Three different Kings, each mad for the only reason that Kings are ever mad:  because things are not going in accord with their commanding expectations.  And why not?  Each of the principal characters in this novel, like Elsinore itself, lives as an island to himself, apart and impenetrable.  Not even the Saviour can reach it, for &quot;Christianity turns grim in lands of frost; it is a Mediterranean cult, a religion of the grape.&quot;  This novel, a precursor to Hamlet (though direct lines from the play surface sporadically), sets the stage for a play less consumed by a singular event and Hamlet's predisposed reaction to it, than by a solitary insecurity that exempts no one from its grip -- certainly not Hamlet, and not his mother or her unbridled lover, his uncle, the new king.  The madness of detachment awaits only its apparition when the last line of this novel is reached.  By then a new dimension has been given to a classic play.	2004-02-12
US	52992589	RVH6M22UOB4JC	1594200033	464600964	Origins of the Crash: The Great Bubble and Its Undoing	Books	4	2	4	N	Y	The Culture that "Led to Prosperity and Enron"	Mr. Lowenstein surveys the principal instances of financial abuse which, together with September 11th, resulted in a steep decline in the U.S. stock market -- with the Dow down almost 40% once Enron's travails began to permeate public awareness. Lowenstein claims that, \\"if a single corporation could represent the corruption of shareholder value,\\" Enron would be that corporation.  Not surprisingly, a significant fraction of this book is focused on Enron, particularly its infamous use of Special Purpose Vehicles.  Also prominent in these pages is Worldcom and its colorful, affable CEO, Bernard Ebbers.    The underlying lesson from the various cases Lowenstein surveys is that the level of corruption and mismanagement reflects \\" cultural devolution -- a generalized decline in standards.\\"  <br />One difficulty with this book is that the history it surveys is still very much evolving. Virtually none of the major companies he examines is \\"out of the legal-woods.\\"  In addition, the book reads as though it hastily came together; it lacks a proper introduction, and the final chapter is less tight structurally than it ought to be.  With respect to the latter, I drew a different lesson from Lowenstein's book than \\"cultural devolution.\\"  More specifically, I think what Lowenstein documents is that the institutions upon which investors rely for information, integrity and transparency failed miserably, or at least enough of them failed to prompt the market exit and the subsequent drag on values.  Analysts became salesmen.  Auditors became compromised. Boards went comatose.  Neither the SEC, nor Congress, for whatever reasons, acted as the guardian of last resort.  In the end it was a general financial publication, Fortune, and the investigative work of Bethany McLean, that turned on the lights and ended the party. What remains uncertain is whether Sarbanes-Oxley and other reform efforts will be provide sufficient future protection. Lowenstein's last chapter suggest some powerful reasons to remain cautious.	2004-02-10
US	52992589	RHVZZ93E9ICS5	0812967615	462291643	Peoples and Empires: A Short History of European Migration, Exploration, and Conquest, from Greece to the Present (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Of Warriors and Captive	A concise, readable account, not just of empires and immigration patterns, but of the sweep of world history in general.  I would be hard put to imagine how one could do as much as Mr. Pagden has done in as few pages.  It includes a chronology of key events, and a description of central historical figures.  This is a great book to read prior to or in conjunction with more in-depth surveys of world history. Pagden notes some watershed transformations including, (1) the empire of Charles V and its maritime reach, (2) the role of the Netherlands both within Europe and in the Asia-Pacific arena, (3) slavery and its long history from 1444 to approximately 1870, (4) the &quot;scientific&quot; justification for colonization and/or indirect rule from mid-18th to early 20th century, and (5) the current view of empires today, which negates the distinction, held somewhere in the West (and in China and Japan as well) since the Greek polis, of citizens and barbarians.  Mr. Pagden has given us a fast, smooth and informative trip through a central facet of global, historical evolution.	2004-01-30
US	52992589	R1XK4KNREF09Z3	0312061706	247841222	A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man (Case Studies in Contemporary Criticism)	Books	4	3	9	N	N	A Portait Whose Time Has Come and Gone..	It is remarkable that such a well-crafted novel manages, as a story, to resonate so poorly. When was the last time someone referenced Stephen Dedalus in a conversation?  Moby Dick,  Holden Caufield, \\"the old man in Nabokov,\\" Heller's Yosarian: all already have or will continue to enjoy an iconic status long after Portrait becomes the exclusive domain of a specialized readership.  Portrait struck me less as a work of art to be experienced than a puzzle to be solved.  Fraught with literary antecedents and allusions and word play it exemplifies the artist as cryptographer.  On the plane of a puzzle, it's remarkably good fun.  So, this puzzled me, and I'm sure that there is minor, obscure commentary either to answer or dismiss it as a question:  When Mr. Dedalus claims that \\"silence, exile and cunning\\" shall be his weapons, what, if anything, in Portrait, with its extended conversation with the great books of the western canon, prepares us for the role of \\"silence\\" in the arsenal?	2004-01-30
US	52992589	R2ZI8IRTH0AOJ4	8433969587	391999313	Como Ser Buenos (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Como Ser Bueno (Bastante)	Como ser bueno en el mundo real?  Que es la \\"question\\" en Como Ser Bueno de Nick Hornby. La familia del Dr. Katie Carr no pueden ayudar el pobre de London --  no possible ayudar y ser una familia a lo mismo tiempo.  Espero que tiene el tiempo para leer este libro, y espero se gusta.	2004-01-19
US	52992589	R12MAMK687P5N	1573229326	319964836	How to Be Good	Books	5	6	8	N	N	The Unbearable Weight of Goodness	The central character of How to be Good, is Doctor Carr -- in her late thirties, a practicing physician and woman burdened by a marital crisis when the book opens.  She wants to leave her cynical, semi-employed, journalist husband, partly inspired to do so by an affair she having with a more attentive lover, Stephen.  What happens to keep her in the marriage is the arrival of DJ Goodnews.  He is possessed of seemingly shamanistic, curative powers and, in no time, Goodnews has transformed the good Doctor's husband.  He ceases to be the locally renown curmudgeon and becomes, instead, a crusader for the poor, one who embodies the liberal spirit of helping those least able to help themselves.  The Carr's house becomes a focal point for a block-wide effort to adopt the homeless.  Monkey, a tall lanky, young man becomes the special guest of the Carr household.  A beggar by day, he is also, as Dr. Carr realizes, the only member of the household earning an income other than herself -- David Carr and Goodnews being absorbed completely in their campaign of doing good.  All this is hard on the marriage. Yet, Dr. Carr got what she wished for.  Not sure that she likes it, she consults her own Delphic Oracle from an Anglican Church she has, in desperation, visited:  Should she stay or divorce? <br />This is a book about the limits of human kindness and idealism, both within a marriage and within the larger community.  Most books that turn a marriage under a micro-scope fail to see how and where that relationship belongs in the larger world.  Hornby's plot succeeds in doing just that and providing, along the journey, some very funny moments.	2004-01-19
US	52992589	R2VJDLOBDZGCAD	0844741620	729186783	Coercing Virtue: The Worldwide Rule of Judges	Books	4	30	38	N	N	One Court, one vote.......	Robert Bork's thesis is that \\"the rule of law has become confused with -- indeed subverted by -- by the rule of judges.\\"  This is, he contends, precisely what judidicial activism seeks to accomplish.  The result, Bork argues, is minority rule, and the minority \\"at least for the foreseeable future\\" is the New Class, a group Bork describes as \\"overwhelmingly liberal [leftist] in its outlook.\\"  Readers, in my opinion, would do well to remember that Bork attacks judicial activism principally because it is anti-democratic.  There is, he thinks, a strong tendency for activism and liberalism to arrive in the same package, but it is not inevitable.  Yet, in the countries he examines -- Canada, Israel and the U.S. -- he finds a leftist judiciary usurping legislative power.  More interesting, in my view, than his country-specific examples, was his discussion of the deference that Courts around the world are increasingly paying to international law, and international courts. \\"The major difficulty,\\" he contends,  \\"with international law is that it converts what are essentially problems of international morality, as defined by a particular community, into arguments about law that are largely drained of morality.\\" <br />The validity of Mr. Bork's central contention is difficult to evaluate. It requires finding counter-examples, or their absence, in the mass of law he has surveyed.  That is beyond the scope of the ordinary citizen (not to mention this reviewer).  However, assuming Bork's argument is valid, two inter-related puzzles surface.  (1) Why are we not seeing more of a backlash against the \\"rule of judges\\" in democracies that have experienced judicial activism?  (2) Why are Courts continually held in high esteem? Discussing the case of Israel, Bork finds \\"less and less reason for the Israeli people to bother electing a legislature and executive; the attorney general, with the backing of the Supreme Court, can decide almost everything for them.\\"  Fair enough, but why, then,do Israelis continue the charade?  Bork is aware of the problem, and he correctly notes that a range of factors might contribute to the apathetic response he witnesses.  The one possibility he seems not to consider is that the thesis itself is flawed; that, however it may look to him, citizens are obtaining from Courts outcomes consistent with their expectations.  Of course, such an answer would still not satisfy Bork:  Courts are not just about outcomes, but about processes, and activists that stray from the intent of the law they interpret are writing law, not finding it. The underlying problem may have much less to do about citizens recapturing lost ground from allegedly wayward Courts, and much more about what it means to be a citizen. Bork's lamentation may be on target:  \\"Perhaps a preference for immediate victories is part of the spirit of our times.\\"  Perhaps citizens are weary and cynical.  Perhaps \\"the old civics lessons,\\" which Bork believes are still sound, are evolving in ways that differ from the past.  Coming to grips with these and other such issues constitutes, at least for me, the principal reason to read and contemplate Robert Bork's case.	2004-01-15
US	52992589	R3P06B5KUIYMXD	0374281750	396161457	The Equity Culture: The Story of the Global Stock Market	Books	5	1	1	N	N	We're all owners now........	B. Mark Smith has provided in The Equity Culture a readable account of the evolution of the global equity market.  Emphasis on the word global.  This is not the history of the U.S. stock market, or what he later refers to as the Anglo-American market, but an account of equity markets in Japan, Germany, Malaysia, and elsewhere, though invariably much of the focus is on Japan, the U.S., the U.K. and Germany.  He is very good at weaving into his story the role of market theory from Markowitz on portfolio theory to more recent debates on the efficient market theory (the latter frankly I don't understand).  Readers will also find here a more sophisticated treatments of so-called market &quot;bubbles.&quot;  In my view, he correctly limits the standard explanation of such events to stock markets that are sufficiently developed, or left un-regulated; hence, the so-called  Japanese &quot;bubble&quot; is not a case of investors acting on emotion rather than reason because government policy had institutionalized high values.<br />This is an excellent overview, and he is to be commended for managing to avoid the temptation to stray too far from the main story line.  After all any number of tributary topics he covers might well themselves provide the basis of another volume -- including, the role of central banks in crisis periods, the growing influx of pension dollars into equity markets, the co-variance of global markets and, of course, the recurring problem, most recently manifested by Enron and the Italian holding company, Parmalatt(?), of efforts to conceal losses through accounting machinations (see Japan's version in the discussion of Sanyo Special Steel (184-185). I think there is a small error regarding the U.S. crash and that is that &quot;Black Tuesday&quot; was October, not November 29th (see page 126), 1929.  Not a big mistake when one bears in mind Galbraith's comment that the singular feature of the crash of 1929 was that the &quot;worst continued to worsen.&quot; Overall, an excellent, very readable introduction to the global evolution of equity markets. Stay tuned, though, this history continues to evolve.....t; Overall, an excellent, very readable introduction to the global evolution of equity markets. Stay tuned, though, this history continues to evolve.....	2004-01-11
US	52992589	R9TGUB80AV1AD	0465047548	681475555	Evil: An Investigation	Books	4	6	6	N	N	"I ask for killer sharks; I get bad bass." Dr. Evil	Appreciating this book requires the right set of expectations.  Mr. Morrow's underlying assumption is that \\"evil is a famously elusive subject\\"; \\"that evil is like black magic,\\" and; that \\"mind on the level of art\\" addresses evil more satisfactorily than the disciplines of \\"theology, philosophy, politics, science -- for all their institutionalized intellectual apparatus..\\"  So, what does Morrow \\"think/feel\\" about evil?  That evil \\"is not an abstraction or principle, but is, rather, the world's narrative energy. Evil makes the world go round; goes round the world.\\"  The \\"proof of the existence of evil is in the stories about evil.  The reality of evil is in the stories. And nowhere else.\\" Evil,as in the book under review here, excels, not surprisingly, at telling stories.  Morrow asks more questions than he answers in these stories (which he thinks \\"evil\\" is prone to do anyway), but he is very good at finding continuities across differing scales.  For example, he is able to make you think about the possible similarities between evil on the scale of Nazi Germany and Stalin's Russia, and the more common place, but often viscious, office setting. (His story of an office secretary, then having an affair with the head of a university department, and her attempt to sabotage the career of a vulnerable, yet talented female faculty member has, he thinks, \\"the presence of evil in it\\").<br />The difficulty with this book is that Morrow seems to want it both ways. On the one hand, he contends that that generalizations about evil are tenuous, because it's elusive and each story is itself unique. On the other hand, descriptive generalizations about evil, or statements that appear that way, are unbiquitous in the text.  \\"Evil is a hermit crab.\\" \\"Evil is a wandering presence.\\" \\"It rises like a think black gas between our destructive capacities.\\" \\"Evil tries to be complicated.\\"  \\"Evil is an absolute.\\"  And so on throughout.  Descriptive statements that are evocative of evil would seem to presuppose the very analytical understanding that Morrow claims is not accessible -- on what basis are they part of the set \\"evocative set?\\"  It's possible to argue that to investigate evil is to summon one's artistic mental capacities, which his stories, all well-told by this prose-master, are intended to accomplish.  But then there is the problem that Morrow does not want to maintain that \\"evil is relative.\\"  <br />A reader can lost in these woods.  In fact, at one point he maintains that investigating evil is like wandering the dark corridors of a haunted medieval castle.  Readers who signed up for a less unsettling tour will be disappointed.  Those who do take the tour will find that much of what Morrow conveys is powerful preliminary work for a more rigorous and clarifying treament of evil.	2004-01-08
US	52992589	R2AMG2HU4CCQY7	0385498721	179075750	Survivor: A Novel	Books	4	3	5	N	N	I vote to keep this book on the island..	Don't judge a book by its title.  This is not Homer's Odyssey.  The &quot;survivor&quot; here is not an &quot;action figure,&quot; but the hero as passive participant, as a victim of forces he perceives as larger than himself.  Readers might benefit from knowing in advance two things: (1) When this book begins, the end is alrady in sight; in the pages that follow the central character of this dark comedy, Tender Branson, explains, as best he can, how he arrived at the point where the reader begins; (2) In the pages that follow -- that is, in Branson's autobiography -- we see a &quot;hero&quot; whose life is the result of forces he was powerless to alter. Branson does not create; at best, he preserves. Professionally, he cleans, and the book provides countless &quot;tips&quot; for removing the human stain in all its varities. Yet he is no friend of the human struggle for self-preservation and is not above recommending to others the suicide he finds for himself. (He operates an ad hoc suicide hotline that always prescribes suicide). <br />So, why should readers bother with Branson?  Tender Branson is the modern American pilgrim. He wants to live in the ideal society where life has its predictable rhythms, but recognizes that he cannot -- that the idyllic village is out of reach precisely because it cannot insulate itself from the larger world.  Thrust into that world himself, he does what he knows: he works in the service of others and is finally led by them to capitalize on his childhood experience in the cult of the Creedish. That is not the path to self-realization and awareness.  The pilgrim's path was, in this case, a poor education.  Ultimately he strikes out on his own.  By the book's end, and by definition its beginning, Branson has found his &quot;free will,&quot; and opted to get out.  A dark choice, but a choice just the same.	2004-01-05
US	52992589	R32QHDC3I2DYH7	0674009665	53720751	Mary Magdalene, The First Apostle: The Struggle for Authority	Books	5	78	79	N	N	Mary Magdalene Revisited...this time seriously	This book, originally a doctoral dissertation, provides readers with what appears to be a very careful comparative analysis of the gospels and early Christian texts on the pivotal question of the apostolic status of Mary Magdalene.  I hedge with the phrase &quot;what appears to be&quot; simply because my ability to judge a book with references to scholarship that includes Harnack,  countless foreign languages, Greek and Egyptian sources is limited. But don't let the scholarship deter you; this is a very readable book.<br />Dr. Graham Brock documents how Mary Magdalene's presence as a resurrection witness, her position as a role model and her status as apostle have been diminished, depreciated, marginalized or otherwise ignored in early Christian texts, and especially the Gospel of Luke.  A central assumption, and one that to me seems reasonable, is that the differing portrayals of Mary Magdalene are not unintentional, but in &quot;all probability intentional and deliberate.&quot;  What emerges in these pages is a picture that reinforces the work of Elaine Pagels and others; it is a picture of an early church, much more divided than ordinary believers have been taught to expect. A more complicated picture, but one that is, for that very reason, far more believable. <br />The significance of the debate about Mary Magdalene stems from the vast importance attached to apostolic succession in the church, both historically and in our own time.  This careful and readable analysis of the apostolic status of Mary Magdalene -- to some early Christians, &quot;the apostle to the apostles&quot; -- is a welcome addition to the growing volumes on her importance. It is a serious work. Dr. Ann Graham Brock merits a wide and serious readership.	2003-12-31
US	52992589	RHE398E0T5NNY	0192802232	72963542	Empire: A Very Short Introduction	Books	5	25	28	N	N	From Sargon to Lord of the Rings...Still the same old story	Readers and especially students who want a quick overview of the meaning of &quot;empire&quot; (by no means self-evident) will find a bright diamond in Professor Howe's short text.  Encompassed in this slender volume is an attempt to clarify what it means to have an empire, how that differs from colonialism, imperialism, globalization and other competing conceptual categories; a brief description of the leading empires -- Roman, Ottoman, Austria-Hungarian, British, Chinese; and an especially good discussion of relatively recent debates on the overall effects of Empire, with particular attention on the consequences of empire for the dispersion of democracy and the creation of global wealth in countries formerly within the shadow of an empire's reach. The issue of whether and to what extent the U.S. constitutes an empire is raised.  This book is a great place to identify the many faceted debates associated with empire for more detailed, subsequent investigation.	2003-12-26
US	52992589	R1Q1R0ORBFXLAF	0385720920	729613164	Choke	Books	5	2	4	N	Y	All Choked Up....	First things first...It takes a long time to read Choke because the laughs slow down one's normal reading speed.  So, don't let the novel's size deceive you.  Second, this is not a frivolous book.  As is true with quality comedy, the obscured underlying \\"message\\" is deadly serious.  Ostensibly, Victor Mancini is working (Choking) in fine restaurants for the purpose of reaping financial windfalls that will enable him to purchase for his mother, Ida, a feeding tube.  In the novel, Victor recounts life with Ida, the \\"Mommy,\\" and describes himself as the \\"gullible\\" or otherwise diminished \\"kid.\\" Ida is a criminal; her crimes are petty, but intended toward one goal:  creating chaos and unpredictability in a world which, she says, suffers from a surplus of organization (everyday a \\"cruise ship\\").  She goes to a pharmacy and mixes up hair dyes, placing blonde in the red-hair box and so on.  She wants, not to uncomplicate her life, but to uncomplicate herself.  She is not alone.  Also seeking a meaning in unpredictable and seemingly trivial actions is Denny, the \\"hey dude\\" friend of Victor.  He collects rocks to celebrate his sobriety.  Victor, Ida, Denny, the nursing home \\"doctor,\\" Paige:  all are pilgrims in the new world, trying in their modern way to build Johnathan Winthrop's \\"city on a hill.\\"  Addicted to drugs, sex, delusional, these and other characters in Choke are trying to find direction and meaning in a world that  would rather avoid even such discussions.   I could not bring myself to find convincing the image of an adult Victor Mancini who remains impressionable after a volatile, unprotected childhood of trailing his wily mother in and out of courts, foster care and the modern legal system generally.   A small complaint in the overall scheme of things.  Reading Choke and you're in a cool hypnotic state, a self-contained world where you can laugh out loud as you ponder what drives the characters of Choke to their extremes and why, by the way, are we not similarly driven.	2003-12-23
US	52992589	R335D2OS05C0HX	081462779X	816456752	Sacred Silence: Denial and the Crisis in the Church	Books	5	13	13	N	N	"The Body is Just a Playground..."	Sacred Silence has much to say.  The body as \\"playground\\" was a metaphor used by one priest in justifying his sexual interest in a young male. It is, he went on to say, the \\"soul\\" that counts.  This is a chilling line of reasoning.  Cozzens' thesis is the Church's first challenge is to breakthrough the \\"wall of denial and silence\\" that has surrounded the issue of sexual abuse. Sacred Silence, to use President Reagan's phrase, is trying to \\"tear down that wall.\\" The first part of the book identifies the factors that have motivated \\"denial\\" on the part of the clergy (institutional dynamics play a key role here) and the ways that silence has manifested itself, including a brief, but fascinating discussion of the failed efforts of African nuns to generate a dialogue on abuse when they first raised it in 1995. The remainder of the book focuses on potential reforms. Much of the problem stems, in Cozzens' view, from the tradition of celibacy itself.  This tradition, he thinks, merits serious re-examination, as do other factors, including an expanded role for women and a revised, more representative process for selecting Bishops.  <br />What disturbed me about Cozzens was not his substantive thesis, but his timid style.  Here he runs the risk of sending the wrong signal to church authorities. He recognizes that there is a systemic problem here; that priests, insofar as they have been involved in the abuse of minors, have overwhelmingly selected teenage boys as opposed to girls and; that, more often than not, far too little was done to protect the children themselves (as opposed to the offending priest, as William F. Buckley has observed).  With all this, it would seem incumbent on the Church to study carefully the mental rationalizations used by abusing priests, and flat-out irresponsible not to do so.  Cozzens is clear, but still stepping carefully when he states: \\"The results of such studies would be distrubing... yet [are] essential to any long-term resolution.\\" And, \\"Now is the time for the church to address with compassion and sensitivity a reality it wants to deny..\\" And, \\"it is time to tell the truth in love.\\"  All this is, of course, correct; the problem is that it is obviously correct. As citizens, Catholics would respond as quickly and as decisvely as non-Catholics to child abuse at a local public school. Recurring abuse and heads would roll, including those on the school board.  In this area, it seems, the law is more advanced the institution's moral sensibility.    The problem of abuse that the Church faces in the U.S. has, by all indications, been significantly under-estimated in Rome.  What's lacking in Cozzens is not so much anger, but a sense of urgency.  This problem and accompanying perceptions will not be perceived as being resolved in the absence of significant change.  Here, church authorities, who really are Cozzens principal audience, have much to learn from Father Cozzens.  But they should not be deceived by his measured tone -- in the timeless institution, time is now of the essence.	2003-12-17
US	52992589	RMV86FC0J6FW3	1401352030	464769779	Yellow Dog	Books	5	2	6	N	Y	The Descent of Xan	This novel's multi-layered plot defies the short summary.  At the most fundamental level Yellow Dog is about the descent and subsequent return of Xan Meo, the novel's central character.  The proximate cause of his fall from grace is a violent blow to the head intentionally inflicted as an act of revent in response to an inadvertent revelation in Xan's book, Lucozade.  Xan's descent is evolutionary: from modern husband/father to a lower rung on the evolutionary societal ladder (but one tied to his past).  This is a world, alas, not entirely foreign to today's readers.  Still it is a long way from paradise.  Here, for Xan, and manny of the people he encounters, incest tempts, tempers erupt and ordinary cognitive capabilities seem out of reach.  We are cruising the primitive backwaters here -- petty, violent thugs, porn stars (a remarkably likeable lot in these pages), voyeurs and extortionists.  Yellow Dog can at times seem frustratingly disorganized; yet Amis pulls the puzzle pieces together by the novel's end.  Readers would do well to pay attention to the opening pages -- indeed the opening passage of this novel; it will begin to surface again, albeit in reversed form as Xan begins to regain his footing.  In fact, the appearance of a plot in disarray is entirely deceptive.  This novel is remarkably self-contained, including an explanation of its limitations:  &quot;You don't think it's shocking anymore?...look at the future .. we're not frightened.&quot;  Yellow Dog does assume an audience capable of being &quot;shocked,&quot; of distinguishing normalcy from the moral void, right from wrong.	2003-12-12
US	52992589	R1MXL252ZR5NJQ	0374250073	829694855	The Riemann Hypothesis: The Greatest Unsolved Problem in Mathematics	Books	5	18	19	N	Y	Ready for prime time	I think potential readers of this intriguing book need to bear in mind the following: (1) you do not need to understand Riemann's hypothesis to enjoy this book and (2) Mr. Sabbagh does a very fine job of outlining Riemann's hypothesis in layman's terms.  Riemann's hypothesis is not easily grasped; what Sabbagh wants to do is to enhance your understanding of it.  There is no pretense here that the hypothesis in all its complexity is being conveyed.  In fact, near the book's end, he concedes that &quot;you know almost nothing [about R's hypothesis] compared to what there is to know.  The hypothesis itself is an outcome of Riemann's zeta function which is the sum of the series 1 + 1/2^s +1/3^s...1/n^s, which means 1 + 1/2^a+ib + 1/3^a+ib (where i is an imaginary number).  All sorts of values are possible, but the values of interest center on the Riemann zeta function when it becomes zero.  These zeroes, as its turns out, fall on what is known as the &quot;critical strip&quot; and their graph is linked to the fluctation of the primes, which are themselves the building blocks for all the other numbers. The hypothesis is that all the &quot;significant&quot; zeroes line on the critical strip.  The proof has become the Mount Everest of mathematics, but it remains unscaled.  Many mathematicians, who perhaps found the hypothesis disarmingly approachable, have died before reaching the summit.  <br />Sabbagh does want you to understand the hypothesis, but he is also trying to delve into the community of mathematicians generally -- what they are like as people -- in an effort to make them more accessible as well.  Inevitably, in this area, Sabbagh often reads like an anthropologist documenting the ritualistic &quot;abnormalities&quot; of some primitive Amazonian sub-culture. What I found surprising is not that Sabbagh finds that the thought processes of mathematicians rarely intersect with that of non-mathematicians; rather what I found striking were the similarities with the &quot;rest of us.&quot;  They can be collaborative yet guarded, brave yet insecure, intuitive but distrustful of intuition.  Several he finds are lousy at simple computations (but brilliant on abstractions).  They are a colorful lot, but they are not high IQ aliens from another world. The portrait of Louis de Branges is especially fascinating and forms a strong sub-plot within Sabbagh's text.  <br />I don't plow through many books like this, but I do recommend The Riemann Hypothesis.  Like Sarah Flannery's &quot;In Code&quot; (which has an excellent chapter on prime numbers), The Riemann Hypothesis is suited for, and ought to be attractive to a wide audience.	2003-12-01
US	52992589	R27YQBZ5NF4A14	1893554732	996732934	Mexifornia: A State of Becoming	Books	4	20	29	N	Y	California Dreaming	Victor Davis Hanson is not a happy man these days.  He has grown weary of illegal immigrants.  They leave mass quantities of garbage on his property. They steal his fruit. They enjoy countless subsidies at the cost of California taxpayers.  Politicans and businesses pander to them. Ordinary citizens get the bill. They are taking over, and hence the title of his book.  This has never happened before:  it's always been easier to let immigrants &quot;not-assimilate,&quot; but we are the first generation of Americans to conclude, according to Hanson, that as &quot;host,&quot; it's better for us if they don't assimilate either.<br />There are times when I think that &quot;aliens&quot; can do nothing right for Hanson.  They drive without a proper license, but take forever at the DMV, because they don't speak English.  They don't have bank accounts, but also consume too much time at the teller window.  They drop-out of school in alarming numbers, but invariably take the wrong classes when in college.  They don't like Mexico, but then complain about this country (Do they lose the right to want change when they cross the border?)<br />It would be wrong, however, to conclude, as I think some reviewers have, that Hanson lacks empathy for the plight of incoming immigrants, or wishes simply to turn back the clock. (Though he does seem to suffer from a kind of &quot;chronic nostalgia).   His gravest charge is that Mexican-American intellectuals, with significant reinforcement from non-Hispanic Californians, have created a mythology of victimhood in the Hispanic community.  That mythology that has led to an entitlement mentality -- so many Mexican waiting for manna from heaven to fall. Such expectations constitute a recipe for disappointment and bitterness. And that, in turn,fulfills the victim &quot;myth.&quot;  This is why Hanson deserves a very serious reading:  whatever one may think about the rest of his indictment, fundamentally he has put his finger on a real problem, namely, that California -- its government and its private sector -- run the very real risk of over-promising, and undelivering on ever rising immigrant expectations.  The problem is not that we can't &quot;morph&quot; Mexicans into patriotic Americans, but that the promise land will fail them.  And then, where next? These problems are not unique to California. Nor,are they foreign to Europe (France and the UK have their own version).  Yet, once again, for better or for worse, the scale of the experiment belongs singularly to our bellwether state.	2003-11-15
US	52992589	R2DLOZBJN79996	1400032202	964050438	Koba the Dread: Laughter and the Twenty Million	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Dying for &quot;negative perfection&quot;	This is not a dry, detached inquiry.  Readers beware:  Martin Amis calls it as he sees it.  And what he sees resists forgiveness.<br />&quot;Why won't laughter do the decent thing?  Why won't laughter excuse itself and leave the room?&quot;  Laughter, the unwanted presence that won't depart, is here the laughter of forgetting, the forgetting of the twenty million crushed during Stalin's reign.  It's also the laughter of real people gathered to hear Christopher Hitchens speak, laughing at an affectionate reference he made to &quot;many an old comrade.&quot;  Koba does two things.  It pulls Stalin out of the dark forgetfulness into which he has escaped and puts his psychotic wickedness under the hot light of examination.  Then Koba asks why, as an historical figure, Stalin is forgiven his sins by having had them forgetten.  The answer to the latter resides in the inherent tragedy that invariably emerges from an irresistible desire: the golden image of the Just City in the flawed world we know.  If the cosmic joke has a smooth groove, Stalin seems to have found it.<br />Co-mingled throughout the vivid remembrance of &quot;negative perfection&quot; is Amis' terrible, untimely loss of his younger sister, Sally.  Ultimately, she is not forgotten and, by the book's end, hope manages an appearance.  He is writing to his late father.  At the funeral is Sally's daughter. He wants to remind his dad of this.  &quot;Remember....&quot;	2003-11-08
US	52992589	RL21DVS22863G	0674009363	925174279	Strangers to Ourselves: Discovering the Adaptive Unconscious	Books	5	26	28	N	Y	Have you seen yourself lately?	Strangers to Ourselves is a clearly written and important book identifying the various internal walls impeding self-knowledge and providing advice on how we might enhance our ability to surmount them.  The former constitutes the more interesting aspect of Wilson's book.  His contention is that &quot;human personality resides in two places:  in the adaptive unconscious and in the conscious construal of the self.&quot;  The latter is often deceptive, the former inaccessible.  Much of the difficulty we face in getting an accurate assessment of our self stems the existence of our &quot;adaptive unconciousness,&quot;  that set of mental processes that influence our behavior &quot;behind the scenes,&quot; as it were.  For all its important influence, our adaptive conciousness remains beyond the accessibility of our conscious.  So, how are we to achieve his second objective; that of trying to improve our self-knowledge?  On this question, Wilson does not abandon us, though he does concede that there are limits to what we can do.  The development of self-narratives, trying to observe ourselves as though we were outside ourselves (like the mathematician who solved a problem he found otherwise intractable until he managed to transform himself as his friend, John Nash, and approach the problem from Nash's vantage point), and altering our behavior in advance of attitudinal change are among his proposals for deepening self-understanding. In all, an excellent source for the general reader to come to grips with him or herself. I know, if my adaptive unconciousness could reach me, that it would agree!	2003-11-01
US	52992589	R1XCMWJIFO9D7Y	0393058492	475143945	Sowing the Wind: The Seeds of Conflict in the Middle East	Books	5	13	16	N	N	&quot;Into this melee now boldly  blundered&quot;	It is the British in Eygpt in 1950 that boldly blundered.  This is after a British official, obsessing over a social slight, came to the stark realization that &quot;we are loathed here.&quot;  <br />The sad and vexing parallels between the history covered in Sowing the Wind and today's Middle-East are striking and make Mr. Keay's work a critical read.  To pluck but one:  &quot;Baghdad was the first city of any consequence to be captured by the British in the Second World War.&quot;  In the First, the conquest cost 100,000 lives and consumed three years.  In the Second, it &quot;cost the British 34 lives and took thirty days.&quot;  But the conquest, like so much in the Middle East, was deceptive:  &quot;Probably, the greatest loss of life came after the ceasefire.&quot;  The environment eventually changed, and in 1943 Iraq would declare war on the Axis powers.  Even then, though, the stage was being set.  A ten-year old boy was taken into the home, and placed under the mentorship of one Khairallah, an Iraqi officer who had been imprisoned and, upon his release, returned to his village in Tikrit.  The boy-student was Saddam Hussein. The year 1947.    <br />This gracefully written book is not focused exclusively on the U.K. in the Middle-East, but history invariably buys them the plurality of pages.  Nor is the book without its lighter moments.  The story of the twins from Minnesota who seem jointly and quite happily to have married the same Prince, the makeshift taxi service founded by a pair of enterprising New Zealanders, and any number of intriguing some plots  -- Gertude Bell, T.E. Lawrence and others -- help to bring to the surface the multi-layered &quot;character&quot; of the region. (I think a book remains to be written about the prominence of British and American women -- as journalists, advisors and power brokers -- in the modern history of the  Middle East, and Keays is a good place to start.)<br />Somewhere John Dos Passos wrote that a &quot;sense of continuity with the past&quot; can be a source of comfort in troubled, uncertain times.  The continuity that one finds in Mr. Keay's work is more unsettling than not, but it deserves, for that very reason, a serious readership, particularly in the U.S.  The detailed narrative stops in the early 1960s, but Keays pulls threads together in a concluding chapter that takes us to September 11th.  <br />The history of this region continues to evolve in unexpected ways, and I share with President Bush the desire to focus on the positive changes that have taken place in Iraq in recent months and, like countless others, sincerely pray that peace and stability find a home in the region.  Until then, the Middle East Keays surveyed in this exceptional book will continue to contain its unsettling continuities.	2003-10-28
US	52992589	RSLXLLM88GNDE	0374248583	274852501	Regarding the Pain of Others	Books	3	21	27	N	N	War in the time of photography	It is photography, beginning with the Civil War, that almost exclusively provides us a window to the suffering of others.  Ms. Sontag's essay explores the capacity of the photographic arts to convey such suffering.  Throughout, she identifies photographs that have seemed to distill the image of war in a particularly unforgettable way, that is, to imprint elements of suffering, both uniquely associated with a specific war at a specfic point in time and more generally attributable to war.  Although she refers to her book's &quot;argument,&quot; it seems more precise to maintain that, like the subject of her essay, her aim here is to assess the power and the limits of photography to convey pain to those viewers who enjoy the luxury of being detached from the specific suffering so depicted.  Stated differently, her essay itself develops an &quot;image&quot; of the art of photography and its effect on spectators who enjoy various degrees of detachment from images before them.  <br />Having been one of the more &quot;provincial&quot; spectators she describes in her book, Regarding the Pain of Others appears to provide an excellent source to discover particularly powerful photographs, at least as commended by Ms. Sontag who has been seriously contemplating the &quot;war image&quot; in all its manifestations for at least two decades.  It would have been  helpful for the book to have included some of the examples she describes. (This is Art History without the art.) There are times, too, when she seems to forget that suffering is not a stranger in the so-called developed, modern world.  The haunting images, captured by photographers on 9/11, of men and women jumping to certain death from the upper floors of the World Trade Center to avoid consumption in the inferno that it had become, will forever retain the sad distinction of being among this century's first &quot;representations&quot; of the continuing horror of suffering in war.	2003-10-26
US	52992589	R2RHRUWU8MN68G	0879695803	8299412	Abraham Lincoln's DNA and Other Adventures in Genetics	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Genetics -- past, present and future	This fascinating book surveys the major facets of modern genetic research.  Its various sections -- on biotechnology, social behavior, DNA in the courts and others -- are self-contained.  This results in some repetition, but given the wealth of detail survyed, repetition is not unwelcome.  Among the observations I found particularly intriguing are:  the U.S. DoD operates the world's largest DNA databank; we will ultimately find the genes that contribute to manic-depression, but we will &quot;map, clone and sequence&quot; the genes that predispose to schizophrenia by 2005; the frequency of cystic fibrosis is a genetic puzzle and surprising (p. 214); Reilly finds virtually no evidence of individuals being denied access to medical coverage, or paying more for it, because of genetic testing (pg., 231-232); finally, efforts are underway to breen transgenic pigs more amenable to humans and vice-versa(!), to alter human bone marrow so as to make it more &quot;pig-like.&quot;	2003-10-21
US	52992589	R3T9AOO8RL02UB	0312308574	686715097	Paris Between Empires: Monarchy and Revolution 1814-1852	Books	4	8	8	N	N	When the world came to Paris	Secretary Rumsfeld relegates it to the &quot;old Europe,&quot; and a recent article in the influential American publication, The Weekly Standard, questions why it should have a seat on the UN Security Council.  To many Americans, the influence of France on European and international affairs is disproportionate to its size -- whether one is talking about its economy, population or geographic scope.  However much one may lament it, France retains its reach.  In Peter Mansel's Paris Between Empires, we see why.  <br />The book opens in 1814 with Napoleon in Elba and closes at the Franco-Prussian war and the end of Paris hegemony.  What Mansel provides in this densely-packed volume is a vivid description of Paris as its vacillates &quot;between nationalism and Europeanism, Bonapartism and royalism, soldiers and civilians...&quot;  When Paris is not expanding militarily but is drawing inward, she seduces culturally -- in the salons, the culinary arts, in language and, yes, so Mansel tells us, in manners. I certainly derived a much better appreciation of the Salon during these years, and the multiplicity of functions it served: as &quot;power base, employment agency, education, substitute home&quot; and, of course, as a platform for sexual encounters.  <br />Did Europe have a more unifying force than France between empires?  Even now, with the chunnel running daily, Mansel is probably on target with his claim that &quot;more than any time before or since, Britain and the British were part of Paris life, as Paris was part of British life.&quot;  It was in France, fostered by anxiety over her, that Louis XVIII, Orleans, Talleyrand, Pozzo di Borgo and others found themselves united on behalf of the common interests of a greater Europe.  <br />Paris Between Empires is not &quot;Paris-for-dummies.&quot;  Mansel does little on the surface to cater to the ordinary reader.  But the rewards of keeping pace with him are significant, and important.  He has a remarkable wealth of detail in these pages. (He seems to know the occupant of every seat in the Opera the night the Duc de Berri was stabbed to death &quot;by a lone fanatic seeking to revenge Waterloo and exterminate the Bourbons.&quot;)  The impact of Paris during these years remains.  Long after France was no longer the capital of Belgium, Rhineland`, Northwest Germany, Northern Italy and the Netherlands, her presence could be felt.  The influence of France, as Mansel shows, is tighly woven into the fabric of Europe -- old and new.	2003-10-08
US	52992589	RERQTNWYHTZ4C	0140156046	937703555	Libra (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	&quot;Plots carry their own logic&quot; ...	First thing, the larger of the two reviews (I think Publisher's Weekly?) featured by Amazon for this book is very good. Don't expect an explanation of an event disguised as a novel.  In Libra, DeLillo is not trying to explain an event in history; he wants to drop us into the lap of that event in all its complexity and nuance.  &quot;If we are on the outside, we assume a conspiracy is the perfect working of a scheme. .. A conspiracy is everything that ordinary life is not.  It's the inside game, cold, sure, undistracted, forever closed off to us. Or perhaps not.&quot;  This is the ambiguous world of the Kennedy assasination,  the subject of this jewel of a novel.  Particularly vivid in these pages is Jack Ruby: explosive and insecure, cruel in one moment, caring the next. And of course, Oswald.  We watch Oswald's slow loss of identity.  In Libra he disappears from history -- gradually losing touch, direction, hope, meaning.  He does not appear to drive himself, nor is he driven by CIA or FBI or other operatives who, try what they will, essentially find him impregnable.  Yet, history it what he makes, or finds.  It is the Russian character so much involved in Oswald's ersatz defection, Kirilenko, who best seems to understand Oswald as &quot;some kind of Chaplinesque figure, skating along the edges of vast and dangerous events. Unknowing, partly knowing, knowing but not saying, the boy who had a quality of trailing chaos behind him, causing disasters without seeing them happen, making riddles of his life and possibly fools of us all.&quot;  He is encouraged by an operative not to find a place in history -- &quot;wrong approach Leon&quot; -- but &quot;to get out. Jump out.  Find your place and your name on another level.&quot;  Reading Libra is participating in a waking dream, a graceful juxtaposition of conspiracy and coincidence, coverging at a point in time, at a place in Dallas.  Libra is evocative of the whole tragedy, a novel that puts you on edge, not because theoutcome is uncertain, but because, at a deep level, one fears to follow DeLillo's exploratory threads.  Not a pleasant ride, but a powerful read.	2003-09-30
US	52992589	R417RKMI0T4NK	0465023282	431315804	Empire	Books	5	52	63	N	N	At last ... &quot;must read&quot; history	Let's start with the reviews.  When you read them, try to keep in mind the simple fact that this book is both describing an historical era (the British Empire) and assessing it.  Not all historians do the latter; and too many are content to do a boring job of the former.  I think Ferguson does a superb job on both fronts, but it is nonetheless possible to disagree with his assessment of the empire while admiring his well-paced narrative and lavishly illustrated survey of it.  How the Empire came into being; why it was British (as opposed to Spanish, Dutch or other); how it operated; how it was funded; who its beneficiaries were; what it did badly; the horrors of which it was guilty;piracy on high seas, the slave trade, its role in Africa, India, Australia, Ireland and elsewhere:  Niall Ferguson captures it all. But not just that..He is interested in applying the lesson of Empire to the world today.  It is the modern world, after all, that the Empire shaped for better or worse.  And here we arrive at Ferguson's assessment.  Readers might take issue with a balance sheet approach to the Empire, and they make take issue with the evaluation itself, but in providing us with such an assessment Ferguson brings the Empire to life in these pages.  On net, the Empire was a positive good, if only because &quot;in the end, the British sacrificed her Empire to stop the Germans, Japanese and Italians from keeping theirs.  Did not that sacrifice alone expunge all  the Empire's other sins?&quot;  Ferguson thinks so. I agree.  Others may not.  You don't need to agree with his conclusions, but you cannot walk away from the question, for now the United States is poised to be an Empire -- an Empire in denial in Ferguson's view -- and whether and to what extent the U.S. should assume, or can assume the role of an imperial power is upon us all.  What do you think?  This is what Ferguson is asking us to do in this outstanding work, in effecting saying: Here's the historical framework, here's what I make of it.  Well, what do you think? Read Empire. Re-read it.  Like it or not, the question of Empire is upon us.	2003-09-28
US	52992589	R5TGI0ZRY1EX3	0521009464	551694233	Megaprojects and Risk: An Anatomy of Ambition	Books	4	25	27	N	Y	A fool,  his money and the bridge that parted them.......	I am the first amazon.com reviewer of this short, but important book. It concerns me that this might reflect a diminished U.S. readership.  That would be unfortunate. Professor Bent Flyvbjerg and his colleagues have written a book of significance to taxpayers everywhere.  It's apparent that they have written this book largely for the policy-maker; yet, make no mistake about it:  the ordinary taxpayer has a major stake in this book's message.  The central characters in Megaprojects and Risk are three large-scale, European transportation projects:  the Chunnel, the Great Belt and the Oresund.  American readers unfamilar with these names (the chunnel connecting London and Paris is perhaps the most recognizable to American readers)  will nonetheless recognize familiar features.  Specifically, they will find project costs that exceed estimates, and revenue inflows that are below projections.  The traits are not unique to these projects.  In fact, cost over-runs and revenue disappointments are a familiar global refrain, according to these authors.  In spite of this, the number and scale of infrastructure projects continues to grow, forming what they call the megaproject paradox.  The book is stronger on documenting problems, including the lack of project post-audits, than on providing solutions.  I think they have correctly identified the problem -- the lack of accountability throughout the project life-cycle -- but their solution, which largely involves ensuring a healthy segment of private capital not supported by state guarantees, together with more attention to genuine risk assessment, falls short of the mark.  The risk assessment tools are firmly established and largely well-understood (Monte Carlo simulation packages are increasingly available).  So is the \\"moral hazard\\" problem that rears its ugly head when projects (in this case) are \\"over-insured.\\"  The difficulty, which they acknowledge, is that the political interplay between state, private interests and NGOs are decisive in determining whether and to what extent the appropriate risk assessment and risk management tools are used. <br />This problem is inherent in the beast.  Policy-makers would love for the private sector to shoulder the risk, but may not be willing to permit a commensurate return.  Private players, just as understandably, are apt to seek insurance of one kind or another on the downside.  The best medicine, and one that this book delivers admirably, is simply to raise our awareness of the track record from the start.  <br />This short book has the look and feel of an academic work.  It would, however, be unfortunate if it languished at the university bookstore.  Global demographics dictate that larger-scale infrastructure investments are in our future.  No one should pay for, promote or plan for such projects before they have digested the lessons in Megaprojects and Risk.	2003-09-13
US	52992589	R3UW6NE47YFIWB	0745319173	776180853	Unholy Wars: Afghanistan, America and International Terrorism	Books	3	7	12	N	N	The Tipping Point in Afghanistan	The thesis of John Cooley's Unholy Wars is that the tragic attack on the World Trade Center and the Pengaton was &quot;engineered, planned and in some cases carried out by CIA-trained veterans of the 1979-1989 Afghanistan war, or those schooled or influenced by them.&quot;  No small charge.  Of course, Mr. Cooley is not claiming that the CIA intended the result; and he acknowledges that hindsight is an untimely gift.  Still, he takes great pains to show that, after the smoke cleared in Afghanistan, the Afghan rebels became a terrorist diaspora --   one that remained highly networked and adequately funded.  Mr. Cooley at points admits that other causal factors were involved as well, not least the continued flow of funds needed to finance jihad, but his recurring accusation is that &quot;blowback&quot; was at the heart of September 11th. <br />Invariably the book prompts counterfactual questions:  Had there been no U.S. support for the Afghan rebels might the Soviet Union have imploded of its own weight?  Was a CIA role in Afghanistan the decisive tipping point that culminated in September 11th or might it have happened anyway?  Working from the premise that he is factually correct about U.S. &quot;training,&quot; was that training really decisive? Wouldn't we expect a motivated al-Qaida to find or discover on its own what resources it needed?  <br />The book's principal strength is the quantity of information it conveys.  Readers in search of a map of the overall book might read Chapter 11, &quot;The Contagion Spreads: The Assault on America,&quot; after reading the opening chapter on Carter and Brezhnev. This should not be the only book you read to understand the tragedy of September 11th, but it certainly should be one of them.	2003-09-06
US	52992589	R2DO1GULBKPEPH	0316279722	135747598	The Punch: One Night, Two Lives, and the Fight That Changed Basketball Forever	Books	5	2	4	N	N	The Punch Delivers.......	Rudy Tomjanovich ran toward Kermit Wasington to break-up a scuffle between Kermit Washington and Kevin Kunnert when Kermit, whose back was facing Rudy, turned quickly and landed the punch. It was no ordinary punch.  Rudy felt as though the scoreboard had fallen on him; he could taste spinal fluid leaking from his brain.  In all Rudy would undergo surgery five times -- plastic surgery, surgery resetting shattered bones, restoring tear ducts.  Feinstein's book traces the lives of both men prior to and after the punch.  Even more, he chronicles the extent to which the NBA evolved around the punch, how it changed the image of the NBA and the rules governing player fights.  <br />The punch was an unrepresentative incident for both men.  Kermit Washington at 6 foot, 8 inch and 222 pounds was enormously powerful.  Rudy was not on-guard when he approached.  Yet, neither player had reputations for violently aggressive play; many other players were &quot;better candidates&quot; to have been involved in such an incident.  Fate saved the moment for Rudy and Kermit.  John Feinstein has done a superb job of showing the extent to which both men continued to live under the shadow of the punch throughout their careers. (Also instructive is the ongoing argument between Washington and Kunnert over who started what what between the two of them.)  Rudy Tomjanovich is, I think, the better known of the two players, and justifiably commands an honorable reputation in the league. Kermit was less known to me.  Perhaps other readers will, as I did, come to have a renewed respect for him as a player and a citizen. The Punch is a quick, absorbing read. As an &quot;incident&quot; in NBA history, it deserved a writer who would bring careful research and lucid prose to that singular event. Feinstein brings both.	2003-08-25
US	52992589	R1SPK2OIZ9DGF7	0471206652	668051421	Against the Dead Hand: The Uncertain Struggle for Global Capitalism	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	The Hand That Won't Die	Brink Lindsey's thesis is that there is really nothing inevitable about the modern thrust toward open markets on a global scale and that opposition to the market still reonates despite the obvious failures of the &quot;dead hand&quot; alternative, defined roughly as the era of the state as economic planner, the tendency toward centralization with all its inevitable rigidity. Lindsey seeks &quot;to bring globalization to terms with its past&quot; by examining &quot;the rise and fall of the old order, whose collapsed clearned the way for our current era of worldwide commerce.&quot;  This is not, however, a tired historical recitation of how Fredrich Hayek was right and all others were wrong.  Lindsey tackles a range of current issues, including banking failures, the need to reformulate safety nets, and the real motivation behind the anti-globalization forces that converged on Seattle (and have since brought their madness to Washington and European cities).  An epilogue places September 11th in the context of the dead hand (though here I think Lindsey is stuffing too much in what the Italian political scientist, Giovanni Sartori, was called the &quot;concept bucket&quot;).  Lindsey's book is essential reading in one of the most provacative debates in modern history.  Juxtaposed against his views are, among others, those of Will Hutton (The World We're In). Mr. Hutton, ostensibly doesn't seek a return to central planning, but very much worries about the American variety of capitalism, urging Europe to go its own way as a counter-weight to America. (A tough read, Hutton, who grates on my proud American nerves).  What makes &quot;against the dead hand&quot; worth reading is precisely the fact that the hand won't die. Central planning on an epic scale is likely dead, but vestiges of it are alive and well, not because people want to throw away the market's upside, but because they want to cushion its volatility.  This is an excellent text to learn the philosophical underpinnings of this debate, to grasp the empirical record of the &quot;dead hand,&quot; and  to confront some of the pressing, current issues that are shaping policy thought and action as the struggle enters a new century.	2003-08-11
US	52992589	R2ZMIXG7HA8LOP	0140152741	435955476	Mao II: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Identity, Youth and DeLillo	I confess: I only recently discovered DeLillo,having read White Noise earlier this year.  My loss.  A decade or so ago Tom Wolfe complained (in Harper's?) that modern literature had turned excessively inward, and had largely avoided the larger social issues that occupy modern readers.  There were exceptions, in his view, but not many.  Mao II resonantes at a level that is quite simply eerie.  Listen to the reclusive Bill Gray lament the sagging influence of modern literature while being photographed (as an historical artifact?) by the globe-trotting Brita:  &quot;Writers are giving way to terror, to tape recorders and cameras, to radios, to bombs stashed in radios.  News of disaster is the only narrative people need.  The darker the news, the grander the narrative.&quot;  DeLillo's modernity is housed in one of two camps -- caught in cults (and habits of being) that destroy individuality, or absorbed in following them.  DeLillo finds in all this the obsessiveness of the patient -- &quot; they (those who suffer a rare diseasse) learn every inch of material they can find... phone-up doctors on three continents and hunt day and night for people with the same awful thing.&quot;  Reading Mao II is to enter the post 9/11 American mind (he has a chilling passage on the World Trade Center); he is watching dispassionately as the mass -- the &quot;hive-mind&quot; -- absorbs its adherents, and how they in turn create a movement of observant- obsessives, watching their every move, at once dominated by movements they can't understand and seeking to re-gain dominion.  This is not as deeply absorbing as White Noise. But here we run the danger of comparing DeLillo against himself. There are too few writers like DeLillo. Reading Mao II resonates on a larger, public plane.  If you sincerely can't get enough of the alcoholic/former University instructor/abused child/co-dependent/jaded/human wreck -- you might look elsewhere.  DeLillo has the modern world squarely in focus, now than ever pertinent.	2003-08-09
US	52992589	R23KIXBQGNKRGY	0393050939	925418329	Stiff: The Curious Lives of Human Cadavers	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Alas, poor Yorick!	All the things you didn't know you wanted to know about the dead are here: the majesty of the liver relative to other organs, terminal velocity for the human on descent, cadaver medicinal properties, transplanted/implanted brains, sending your brains to Harvard and some other, &quot;less conventional&quot; topics.  All are in Roach's smooth read. Don't come at this book with your sensitive self  -- as in Hamlet watching the grave diggers, &quot;Has this fellow no feeling of his business? 'a sings in grave-making?.&quot;  Ms. Roach is whistling throughout her work.   In fact, this is her book's achievement: she suceeds in getting the reader to put sufficient distance between death as &quot;loss&quot; -- the concentrated emptiness that is grief -- and the dead as as a legitimate discussion topic -- &quot;the funny thing happened on the road to decay&quot; comedy.   &quot;Death. It doesn't have to be boring,&quot; is her mantra, and Stiff is a convincing demonstration that there is a laugh after death.	2003-08-03
US	52992589	R2UVA3B72XFLMO	0691090734	335319321	Breaking the Deadlock: The 2000 Election, the Constitution, and the Courts	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	All the votes that are fit to count....	We are a little over a year away from the 2004 Presidential election and you can bet that the 2000 election will cast its shadow over the electorate.  For that reason, Breaking the Deadlock remains a very timely read.  Going into 2004, it's worth bearing in mind the book's central point:  that the question of who won the popular vote in Florida was not a question of fact, but of law.  &quot;If the recount was unlawful, the winner of the recount would not be the winner of the election even if he was in some sense the more popular candidate.&quot;  At the same time,however, Judge Posner acknowledges that Courts, including the Supreme Court, that interpret the law, and were interpreting Florida election, and U.S. Constitutional law in 2000, are themselves exercising a level of discretion that invariably calls into play extra-legal factors.  The &quot;people&quot; shall be judge, as the sagacious philosopher Mr. Locke asserted, but who then are the people? Who counts?  This text confronts that question.  Not all of the material covered in this book was new to me.  Still, I learned a significant amount about the 2000 election, and about the electoral process in general.  Teachers, students and voters in general will find in Breaking the Deadlock a superb survey of a critical facet of U.S. political life.	2003-07-29
US	52992589	R9QW6HKEUDXXA	0609610449	867404855	Out of It: A Cultural History of Intoxication	Books	4	9	13	N	N	Life, liberty and the pursuit of intoxication	Don't expect Stuart Walton to be signing copies of Out of It at your local PTA anytime soon.  Walton's thesis is that intoxication is an historical constant, a biological necessity and an intrinsic good.  The record speaks clearly to Walton.  Look anywhere -- Greeks, Romans, polytheists, monotheists, north/south, tribal/advanced -- and you'll find consumers in search of the altered state.  What drives this imperative?  The answer, Walton claims, is rarely acknowledged but straightforward nontheless:  \\"drugs make us feel different\\" by altering the typical void of the ordinary life.  The options are multiple -- opiates, inhalants, stimulants, hallucinogns.  For each class Walton provides a readable account of their composition, effects, prevalence and mode of use.  Despite Walton's claim about the ubiquity of drugs, most readers visiting Walton-land will be visiting a strange land, or at least sizeable parts of it, for the first time.  The range of stories contained in these pages (a Vancouver CEO buying industrial quantities of LSD, Eton students toying with asphyxiation blackouts, any number of Guiness-book drinkers) find a voice on Walton's pages.  <br />This book has a rambling, discursive quality, but Walton can turn a phrase, and his argument will turn more than a few heads.  The value of  disciplined moderation, commended to us from Plato through Aquinas as the hallmark of the well-tuned soul, as the life \\"worth living,\\" finds no champion in Walton's world.  Absent as well, are those \\"victims\\" of the victimless crime of intoxication, those about whom MADD are so passionate.  Walton won't change the minds of his readers, but he will open them.  Walton is wrong, but worth hearing.	2003-07-18
US	52992589	R1RK7GKU23PIJK	0375501568	81872394	Beyond Belief: The Secret Gospel of Thomas	Books	5	21	25	N	N	Christianity Revisited	Let me begin by saying that this is not a dry history of Church thought through the ages.  Pagels has written a deeply personal book, stimulated in part by her son's terminal illness.  She weaves her life experiences throughout the pages and, in so doing, she shows us how powerfully an ancient debate can resonante in a modern life.  <BR>That said, Elaine Pagels' contribution to the history of Christianity and the variety of Christian experiences that might have been available to believers is twofold.  First, she has taken from the dusty files and shelves of divinity schools, manuscripts and information that would otherwise have had little importance outside the narrow world of practicing theologians, and made these sources relevant to the broader laity.   Second, she has demonsrated, more forcefully in Beyond Belief than in her earlier The Gnostic Gospels, that what became Christianity for the great majority of believers over time was neither the inevitable consequence of the revealed word of Jesus Christ, nor His example, but also and very much a result of what early Church fathers chose to preserve, and what they  sought to conceal.   Her explication of the Gospel of St. Thomas and her argument that John's gospel can best be seen as a challenge to Thomas form an important part of her argument that what became Christianity, as exemplied in the standard Apostle's Creed, was only one possible evolutionary path for Christianity.  The suppressed alternative, contained in the gospels unearthed at Nag Hammadi in the 1940s, basically allowed for the continued growth of God's word by sanctioning an individualistic communion with the divine presence, that is, by allowing for the possibility that individual believers could through their own actions approximate a relationship of sorts with God.  That view presented problems for advocates of one, holy apostolic church.  What status as a truth can the  Word of God revealed by the presence on earth of God's only Son -- what standing does that Word have as truth --  if any believer has the capacity to be a recipient of God's word?  Figuring prominently in her history is the herculean, and remarkably successful effort of Irenaeus to destroy views at odds with what  became the standard Gospels, and especially the Gospel of John.  Yet, she is not unsympathetic to Irenaeus.  Indeed, her explanation of his motives forms one of the most fascinating segments of this very provacative book.   This book demands attention. It demands to be read and pondered.  Christians everywhere, whether they ultimately agree or disagree with her, ought to take the time to understand the broad and critical history she surveys in this slender, but pithy  volume.	2003-07-11
US	52992589	RDWS864SKVXXV	0679735739	741679065	The Information	Books	4	2	2	N	N	For Whom the Bell Tulls	Richard Tull is 40something and not aging gracefully.  He toils in obscurity reviewing books for The Little Magazine, reviewing the biographies of equally obscure and under-achieving men of letters.  He is painfully aware of his shortcomings, which include chronic impotence, but he does not direct his self-loathing inward; rather he projects toward Gwyn Barry, his successful best and worst friend (and there is of course a component of Barry in Tull and Tull in Barry), a writer whose banal books routinely enjoy a global, best-seller status.  There are passages of this book that I read repeatedly, and out loud.  The description of Tull flying coach while Barry resides in the lap of first-class luxury could not be improved upon. Tull may be said to represent the uncompromising artist, against Barry's popular appeal (or the inner struggle of both forces in art in general).  However I chose to view the tension, I have to admit that I was more than ready for its resolution by the novel's end. That notwithstanding, Martin Amis can be an abolute blast to read, and this book is not exception.	2003-07-06
US	52992589	R175DAQ49CO9R9	0738203858	192029347	Mad In America: Bad Science, Bad Medicine, And The Enduring Mistreatment Of The Mentally Ill	Books	4	103	118	N	N	Quacks & Quakers	Imagine a doctor wearing the traditionally authoritative white coat walking into the local asylum with a baseball bat.  He finds a couple of hyperactive patient-residents, clobbers them over the head with the bat and notices that they grow noticeably calmer when unconcious.  The company that makes the bats funds the Doctor's subsequent research (which of course corroborates the earlier findings) and the bat is marketed to other psychiatrists as the \\"mood stabilizer.\\"  N years later the therapy of choice might be a stun-gun, a.k.a., the bio-consciousness transformer.  Mad in America, as the title suggests, chronicles the history of a dysfunctional field, psychiatry, and the way it variously classified, misunderstood, mistreated and misled the most vulnerale of its patients, the schizophrenic.  Psychiatry either failed to see what was happening to its patients or fabricated what it saw.  Lobotomies, the so-called neuroleptics and the \\"atypicals\\" are all here on display in Whitaker's book as hyped and ineffective at best and, at worst, downright fradulent therapies.  Taking a cue from Watergate's deepthroat, Whitaker almost always can explain why psychiatry went astray by \\"following the money.\\"  <BR>This is a powerful book, but a problematic one as well.  At least some of the drugs described by Whitaker remain in the standard PDR.  Some fraction of patients may benefit from them, and benefit for reasons that psychiatry may not adequately understand.  It's also valid that some fraction of patients benefit from placebos.  Whitaker is surely right to put all of us on our guard, but few are willing to abandon entirely the hypothesis that bio-chemical imabalnces may be involved at some level as a causal agent in the overall manifestation of \\"madness.\\"  The theraputic approach of the early Quakers, with its emphasis on communities of caring, clearly desereve to be re-discovered and Whitaker does us a favor by reviewing this history, but so too we need to retain those pharmacological avenues that honestly show sound results, despite the possibilities for abuse, if only because the magnitude of the \\"madness\\" problem will invariably swamp any system that relies exclulsively on some combination of residential confinement, surgical procedures or out-patient psychotherapy.	2003-07-04
US	52992589	RSDBVY14JRIBY	0618049347	718040875	London Bridges	Books	3	1	2	N	N	gmarfin@msn.com	London has long been an international city and, in London Bridges, Jane Stevenson is keen to show just how networked it, and its inhabitants are.  Geographically London spans the globe in this short novel and, on a temporal plane, London reaches through history.  At the heart of the novel is, Eugenides,  a Greek lawyer, an aging gentleman of the old school, with ties to an ancient Greek Monastery.  He has in his possession rare manuscripts, and within his power of attorney, access to priceless relics over which he is charged to supervise at the request of his monastic clients.  With all these qualifications, he is a natural target for con-artists.  In no time, they find him, and the effort to swindle commences.  Stevenson's London is magnetic: a visiting Australian student, a London lawyer of Indian descent, Greek monks and Greek crooks, a British scholar of ancient Greece, Brits residing in France:  all, and others besides, play key roles in Stevenson's novel. There are times in London Bridges when I felt that Stevenson was losing control -- when the novel's complex plot had kidnapped the writer.  \\"Meanwhile, on Saturday of that week, Hattie rang Sebastian.\\" \\"Edward, meanwhile, had entered a stage of abject, bowel-liquidising terror...\\" \\"Meanwhile in Islington, Hattie Luck was getting ready to go to a party.\\" \\"Jeanne, meanwhile, had troubles of her own.\\"  Meanwhile the reader is tossed around like the hapless tourist in a Puerta Vallarta cab. One advantage of the plot, with its \\"meanwhile-back-at-the-ranch\\" tempo, is that it does move the novel along.  As does the prose, for Ms. Stevenson does not squander words.  Ms. Stevenson's novel shows us a London at once vast and knowable. She merits a wide readership, especially among those of us who call other cities home, but who retain connections to that most international of capitals.	2003-06-22
US	52992589	RUZLME139C5I	0393306577	554188260	The Savage God: A Study of Suicide	Books	4	15	17	N	N	The Savage God remains essential	In The Savage God A. Alvarez looks at suicide from the perspective of literature to see how and why \\"it colors the imaginative world of creative people.\\"  To this problem, Mr.Alvarez provides no single answer.  Time itself presents a layer of complexity that prevents the satisfying simplicity of a single explantory theory.  Yet, in the post-Romantic/Classic era, the contours of an answer can be found that accounts for the suicidal pull today.  Art in the modern era enjoys a less restricted scope than that of the classical world; the result is art that is more confrontational. What we find today is that \\"the more directly an artist confronts the confusions of experience the greater the demands on his intelligence, control and watchfulness.\\"  Present always is the risk of  being overwhelmed by what one knows, or thinks known.  Suicide colors the world of creative people precisely because their confrontation with experience is today inherently risky business.  This does not hold for the Surrealists, determined as they were to lighten our load by mocking it, but for the \\"Extremist Poets,\\" as Alvarez calls them, committed to a \\"psychic exploration out along the friable eduge which divides the tolerable from the intolerable...\\" it remains a threatening cloud.<br />It has been over 30 years since the first appearance of The Savage God.  Parts of the book show its age.  A modern discussion would feature less Freud and more on neurotransmitters, and pharmacological findings.  Moreover, it is very clear that Alvarez set the bar too high, attempting in the compass of a small book to survey the history of societal attitudes toward suicide while keeping individual artists, presumably representative of underlying attitudinal currents, in focus at all times.  Yet, The Savage God still has its readers and has come to have the status of a standard reference on this dark subject.  One reason for its continued appeal is that Alvarez brings to his discussion of actual suicides and suicidal tendencies an uncommonly rich level of thinking, understanding and compassion.  His openining chapter on Sylvia Plath, his exposition on Chatterton, and his analysis of that movement toward negation, Dada, carry an insightfulness frequently missing from today's dry, case-history recitals.  This is not a book that tries to duplicate the sterile language of a metropolitan hospital's clinical round.  <BR>Personally I found the chapter on Plath overwhelmingly sad.  The cover of paperback edition of her unabridge Journals carries on its cover a picture of Ms. Plath -- a youthful, optimistic young woman, with a wonderfully wide smile and bright, magnetic eyes.  Mr. Alavarez knew her personally.  His account of her time in London hammers home the tragedy of an artist who lost her footing on that \\"friable edge.\\"  This is a book which, once read, stays with you.	2003-06-22
US	52992589	R3GY2OP3YT8A91	B00008JYQ9	510295481	Them: Adventures with Extremists	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	"I left the Jihad training camp...and Omar and I drifted.."	Camp-Jihad is but one of the destinations that Jon Ronson visits in his quest to see the world through the eyes of the agitated fringe -- to look at \\"our world\\" by moving into theirs, standing alongside \\"them while they glared back at us.\\"  And, exactly, who are they doing the glaring?  There is Omar Bakri Mohammed, waging his own \\"holy war\\" against Britain, urging a fatwa on Rushdie, and releasing statements on behalf of Osama bin Laden; David Ickes, who may or may not be referring to Jews when he talks about lizards, but who clearly does attract anti-semitic followers; Thom Robb, trying to create his version of a \\"politically correct,\\" 21st century Klan; Dr. Ian Paisley, screaming in Ronson's ears that \\"Germany is calling\\"; Mr. Ru Ru, disappointed at the quality of Ceausecu's goods on auction, but buying them anyway to make Romanians happy....; and so on.  Each of the \\"families\\" Ronson visits are, like Tolstoy's unhappy families, weird for reasons unique to them, but all are connected by their fear, hatred and obsession with the coming \\"New World Order,\\" represented by the \\"Bilderberg group,\\" that select cluster of global elites allegedly conspiring to establish a world mega-state.  Jon Ronson's guided tour of some of society's more eccentric sects makes for addictive reading.  Them is, with the exception of a few parts (the interviews on Randy Weaver's death are especially disconcerting), a book as entertaining as it is informative.  Read Them.  Trust me, they're reading about you....	2003-06-21
US	52992589	R3C422NGS8U3SL	1568491522	990777880	In Cold Blood	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Capote's Classic	Mr. Capote did us a great service in probing every facet of the tragic murder of the Clutter family in Holcomb, Kansas. But for his careful research and lucid prose, the courage of the Clutters, and the savagery of their murder, made all the more tragic by the quality of the family's character, might well have gone unrecognized.  Although our era scarcely needs another shocking crime about which to read, In Cold Blood is worth re-visiting.  At one level, Capote's book reminds us just how much has changed in a relatively short span of time.  It is almost impossible in today's world to imagine reporters waiting anxiously in Holcomb for the return by car of the accused killers; now, even cities of modest size would have dispatched any number of helicopters to hover over the vehicles in transit and the footage would be delivered to our living rooms, and we would find ourselves addicted to the sound of the copters and the chatter of reporters.  At another level, the book shows how little has changed.  The murder of the Clutters is a modern story, a sad precursor to our own violent times.  Capote knew that Holcomb, Kansas was a tale of innocence lost after the passing of the Clutter family.  Now we know it was not just Holcomb's loss.	2003-06-21
US	52992589	R2X6E0YQAV14OP	0679723420	755867934	Pale Fire	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The "shadow of the waxwing slain"	Vladimir Nabokov's Pale Fire is a jewel.  John Updike was spot on decades ago, describing Nabokov as the grandmaster of English prose.  The story in Pale Fire, no linear tale, is told by Charles Kinbote during the course of a commentary on the poem of a renown writer, \\"close friend\\" and next door neighbor,  John Shade.  Shade's poem, Kinbote's commentary assures us, is about Kinbote's beloved Zembla, something of a fictional asylum posing as a nation-state.  Kinbote is residing in the United States while Shade is composing the 999 lines of the four cantos of Pale Fire.  On the faculty of Wordsmith College, and living at least physically proximate to Shade, Kinbote cherishes every encounter with the master poet, convinced that he, Kinbote, is implanting the grand design of what would become Pale Fire.  There is just no substitute for letting Nabokov speak for himself. Almost any page will do:  \\"The Goldworth chateau (the home at which he was staying) had many outside doors, and no matter how thoroughly I inspected them and the window shutters downstairs at bedtime, I never failed to discover next morning something sly and suspicious-looking.  One night a black cat, which a few minutes before I had seen rippling down into the basement where I had arranged toilet facilities for it in an attractive setting, suddenly reappeared on the  threshold of the music room, in the middle of my insomnia and a Wagner record, arching its back and sporting a neck bow of which silk which it could certainly never have put on all by itself.  I telephoned 11111 and a few minutes later was discussing possible culprits with a policeman...It is too easy for a cruel person to make the victim of his ingenuity believe that he has persecution mania, or is really being stalked by a killer...\\"  The perfect touch. Freud acknowledged that even paranoids can have real enemies.  Nabokov's Kinbote fits the bill. Kinbote finds conspiracies in every event, meaning in each line. And that is surely one ofthe lessons of this masterpiece:   No line is without meaning because, as Nabokov shows, we are so very good as instilling meaning in every line, finding a design in every image.	2003-06-21
US	52992589	R33KPNBBAX2XQ7	006251184X	448766883	Undercurrents: A Life Beneath the Surface	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Lost at sea, then found	This slender volume is the best introduction to the subject available.  We are fortunate that Dr. Manning shared with us her journey. This is a working woman's tale.  Mother, wife, professional, Manning has a biting, often self-deprecating sense of humor.  She steers us through depression's dark waters, but does so without being self-absorbed. Her account of E.C.T. is exceptionally compelling.  This book is a lot of bang for the buck.	2003-02-22
US	52992589	R3VKAE1G3PONDA	0684854678	275267442	The Noonday Demon: An Atlas of Depression	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The examined life	There is little to add to the chorus of favorable reviews this book has received.  Mr. Solomon explores every facet of his subject -- recounting his painful personal experience, summarizing the professional literature and surveying alternative treatments.  Although pain is the most private of experiences, the growing volumes on depression invariably share essential elements.  And, after a time, differences start to blur: What was distinctive about Solomon's depression vs. Martha Manning's vs. Styron's vs. Redfield Jamison's and so on?  Yet it's safe to say that few have surveyed as much of this terrain as Solomon. From the intensely personal to the hopelessly ludicrous (he's been painted in blood rituals by the Lebou people of Senegal), one feels at the book's end that if Mr. Solomon didn't cover it then it can't be important. Not a quick read, but ultimately a rewarding one, for Solomon finds an important truth at the summit of his climb: for those who have faced the noonday demon, the unexamined life is not an option.	2003-02-22
US	52992589	ROIKBO5LN8Q6S	0684800071	172639643	At Home with the Marquis De Sade: A Life	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Sade and sex as theatre	In reading At Home with Sade, it's important to bear in mind that for a rather significant period of his life, Sade's home was prison, including the Bastille.  Accordingly, much of this book concentrates on Sade's life behind bars. That can make even the life of this world-class reprobate somewhat tedious reading.  Sade's philosophy, such as it was, extolled a life driven by the baser emotions.  Yet, Sade himself could be remarkably prudish; he remained very much an advocate of double-standards -- drawing a distinction between the tolerant attitude he expected authorities to assume toward the nobility, and the much less lenient posture he expected those same authorities to take toward the \\"sins\\" of ordinary men. Sade indeed demanded a level of moral probity from his first wife that he never applied to his own behavior. In fact, Sade's real-life experiments in sexuality depended for their efficacy on a wider-societal moral framework that would find his choreographed sexual antics reprehensible and shocking. Yet, it is at once important and difficult not to allow one's opinion of Sade to obscure one's view of Gray's work.  There is no denying that we are fortunate to have a biography this lucid in English.	2003-02-09
US	52992589	R22WF5J3C4AYWB	0395977657	202185855	The Monk in the Garden: The Lost and Found Genius of Gregor Mendel, the Father of Genetics (.)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	In the beginning . . .	It is easy to ignore Mendel. Genetics as a science is exploding with new data and ideas almost daily.  And, it is not just the science that understandably captures our interest. The scientists themselves have drawn attention from biographers and historians who have churned out volumes on those working in the field today. The life and personalities of Watson and Crick, more recently Craig Venter of Celera, and others attract media notice, quite independent of their work and scientific contributions.  Against contemporary practioners,the life and times of a patience, deliberative and plodding monk just can't seem to compete for air time.  But, before you conclude that Mendel is the C-SPAN of genetics, read The Monk in the Garden. In this well-written and graceful volume by Robin Marantz Henig, the complexity of Mendel's life emerges fully.  Fraught with insecurity; beleagured almost throughout his life by a depression that could leave him immobilized; ignored by jealous rivals: Henig's Mendel can capture the attention of contemporary readers every bit as much as the scientists currently standing on his shoulders. After all, as Henig writes, &quot;Had he not made that start, however tentative, who can say how genetics would have begun instead -- or even when.&quot; The Monk in the Garden is worth knowing.	2002-12-21
US	52992589	R30HDJWOJV70CE	039304016X	637283524	The Perfect Storm: A True Story of Men Against the Sea	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A perfect book about the perfect storm.	You will never again, after reading Junger's book, take comfort in the fact that a particular storm or hurricane poses no threat to land.  This book reminds us that there are sword boats like the Andrea Gail that remain at great risk long after we've ceased monitoring the forecast.  The lives of people who earn their living at sea, the property of waves, the construction of shipping fleets, the physiology of drowning: in a nutshell, any subject related to the fate of the Andrea Gail gets covered in The Perfect Storm. I kept wishing that Junger would have provided more in the way of maps, diagrams, etc.  Then again, I kept wishing that he had written a longer book.  This a great gift book	1997-07-07
