US	52997930	RDFH2LNANBN6C	0312265867	394337300	To the Nines: Stephanie Plum Novels	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Brilliant - clever, humorous & it even has a good plot	Typically, the Stephanie Plum books are very funny, but a little lacking in terms of plot complexity. This time around, Janet Evanovich brings us a book as funny as she's ever written which also has a plot that is worthy of the mystery genre. Go Janet! Bingeaux!<br />She does have Stephanie running all over the place in this installment of Plum's story - miraculously, though, Stephanie manages *not* to explode, incinerate or otherwise destroy her car this time; she does, however, seem to be blowing through Ranger's band of Merry Men, almost all of whom sustain some form of injury whilst acting as her bodyguard(s). Speaking of Ranger, he's back in true form - making suggestive...well, suggestions, close body contact, employing standard Ranger charisma...which Stephanie has a difficult time fending off. My mental image of this man is about as close to perfection as any man could possibly come - I think Evanovich has possibly created the sexiest fictional character - EVER. <br />Lula also features prominently in the story, bouncing from one diet to another, until she settles upon the all-meat diet and carries around purses full of whole chickens, pounds of bacon and sundry other delectables - much to the delight of the local street dogs. Stephanie's family goes back to cameo roles, thankfully - the family home works so well as a break from the action, but when Evanovich spends too much time with Grandma Mazur or Mom, it slows things down far too much. There is quite a lot of drama happening with the family, though, and many laughs to be had, largley at the expense of poor, ready-to-give-birth Valerie, who is systematically eating her parents out of house and home (\\"you know how she gets when she's interrupted in the middle of a ham!\\") <br />The gist of the plot itself is this: There's a serial killer around, or so there seems to be, and Stephanie thinks she knows where the killer is headquartered - a local business owned by three very different brothers. As she gets closer to locating key people (witnesses, friends and the man who skipped bond and fled town,) Stephanie finds them turning up dead. After their deaths, photographs of their bodies frequently find their way into her apartment, accompanied by flowers and a note insinuating that her turn will come soon. Naturally, this makes Morelli more than a bit nervous, and he and Ranger work together to ensure Stephanie's safety as best they can. Their work is cut out for them - throughout the story, Stephanie is shot with a tranquilzer dart (twice,) hit with a tazer, beaten up, stalked and finally taken hostage to be the rabbit in a sick game the killer wants her to play. Further, Morelli's grandmother keeps having visions in which she's dead. Stephanie's relationship with Morelli is in a very comfortable place in this book - things are looking like they may settle down together, as more and more of Steph's belongings find their way into Morelli's house.<br />Bravo, Janet Evanovich! You've turned out an excellent story with _To the Nines_, and I hope to see more of the same sort of material in your next Plum book. Thank you for the laughs and the entertainment.	2004-01-24
US	52997930	R2D6JCPCK55FTT	0312983298	412907251	Full Speed (Full Series)	Books	1	15	21	N	N	I want my two hours back!	I have always enjoyed Evanovich's books - I even read (and mostly liked) _Full House_, even though it was essentially a romance novel, and lacked a lot of the spark I've come to expect from her.  This, though...this...was simply abysmal.  Horrid.  No good.  To be avoided.  Awful.  Unforgiveable.   It isn't even mental bubblegum - it's mental flatulence.  I'm no intellectual snob - I absolutely love good, silly stuff, but this isn't at all that kind of bad. <br />_Full Speed_ focuses a character who vaguely resembles Stephanie Plum (a popular Evanovich character,) only without her wit, charm, or charisma. Then it tosses in a handsome, dashing, wealthy-beyond-human-measure man that is supposed to make us all fall immediately in love with him and go weak in the knees. The trouble is, he's far too cliche, far too \\"perfect.\\" The book throws these two characters into ludicrous situations, from which they (of course) manage to extract themselves, and oh, did I mention the car?  Do you remember \\"Knight Rider?\\" Replace the annoying voice of KITT with the computer voice of a control freak woman going through menopause, who experiences emotions and has access to pretty much anything technological on the planet. Insert a lot of badly-done high-tech hijinks, and oh my but hilarity fails to ensue!  <br />There are the too-usual pseudo-sex scenes that are always interrupted, and there are the predictable \\"aw, isn't the doggie cute and nearly human\\" scenes (I'm a total dog freak, but the way the authors treat the bloodhound in the book nearly made me gag.) There are the moments when one might kind of say \\"heh\\" in a nearly amused way...but that's all.  The plot is weak, the bad guys are superficial, the humor is nigh-undetectable...[sigh] I'm hugely disappointed.  I'll continue to read (and very likely enjoy hugely) Evanovich's Plum series, but I won't touch another _Full_ book. Ever. <br />I want my two hours back!	2004-01-22
US	52997930	R32Q1M7BKOGOIA	0618002227	669379389	The Fellowship of the Ring (The Lord of the Rings, Part 1)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	A classic, and yet...	Call me a heretic if you will, but while I found _The Fellowship of the Rings_ to be an incredibly vivid and imaginative tale, I also found that in many places, it dragged. Tolkein was a genius, no doubt about that; however, he was also a bit obsessed with an insane number of details about the world  he created. Naturally, this is partly why so many people love his books immensely, but for those of us who are more interested in advancing the story than in the lineage of a hobbit or elf, the intricate details can truly weigh the book down quite a lot. On the other hand, the details in the scene-setting are wonderful - it's probably more a case of \\"one woman's drek is another's dream\\" and so forth. I reckon there's more than one person out there who hates the lavish settings, but loves the history and storytelling-through-song.<br />As a linguist, Tolkein definitely got the language details *right* throughout this series - his efforts there are extraordinary. And, while some people no doubt find the frequent songs in the book charming and entertaining, I generally found myself clenching my teeth to get through them. Further, characters like Tom Bombadil had really interesting elements, but most of them were buried in his too-merry flouncing and bopping about. I would have loved to have seen more discussion of his relationship with nature, and less of the \\"hey-ho, Bombadillo!\\"<br />Overall, though, this is the kind of story that parents should read to their children, letting them get swept away in the vast realm of Middle Earth. Fan of fantasy will likely also enjoy seeing where many of the standards of the genre came from. While there are parts of it went really slowly for me, it was worth the time spent.<br />Now, for the inevitable comparison between the book and the film, for those who have experienced one but not the other. Personally, and I could easily be hunted down and thrashed for this...I enjoyed the movie more. It eliminated many of the slower areas of the tale that I didn't enjoy, yet still remained largely true to the story. Many of my die-hard Tolkein-loving friends agree that the movie did an excellent job, and that secretly, some of them enjoyed it better, too.<br />Still, it would be worth picking up a copy of the book to see if you'd really enjoy.tale that I didn't enjoy, yet still remained largely true to the story. Many of my die-hard Tolkein-loving friends agree that the movie did an excellent job, and that secretly, some of them enjoyed it better, too.<br />Still, it would be worth picking up a copy of the book to see if you'd really enjoy.	2003-01-09
US	52997930	RSDW5P3X07MG6	0140866086	221787283	Lady of Avalon	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Abridged audio version - Very well done	Long, long ago, in 1982, I read for the first time _The Mists of Avalon_, the sequel to _Lady of Avalon_. It was a book that inspired and moved me from start to finish. These 20 years later, I found the audio edition of _Lady_ and looked eagerly forward to it. It was perhaps abridged a bit too much, but the bulk of the story seems to have stayed intact. <br />The story is every bit as much about the important men in the times preceding Camelot as it is about the women; spirits or souls are passed down through time into different bodies, but with similar purposes. The tale revolves around the isle of Avalon, and the conflicts in Britain surrounding it. Often touching and powerful, the story sweeps the reader away into times of mystery and magic, when all was possible if one only believed in it. Magical powers, totems, and animals roamed freely in Zimmer's world, as well as Elven folk and genuine heroes. Zimmer does a wonderful job of taking the reader into these ancient times, fully immersing us in the sights, scents and sounds of these nearly pre-historic times.<br />Truly a wonderful story, it may appeal more to women than to men in some senses, as it is a very introspective story that does spend more time upon the central female characters. However, this isn't to say that men will absolutely not enjoy the tale. I whole-heartedly recommend it, although it is not as powerful and moving a tale as _The Mists of Avalon_; then again, few things could be, in my view. Still, a very strong story, very entertaining.	2003-01-06
US	52997930	R249ZOQNY0OURN	0792268776	426421212	National Geographic Field Guide To The Birds Of North America, 4th Edition	Books	4	36	36	N	N	Still the best all-around guide	I've been birding for about 6 years now, and this is the book I always have with me on birding expeditions, since its second edition - it's small enough to portable (though not small enough for a pocket,) and the illustrations are excellent in quality. The comparison pages showing several similar-looking species (comparing different species of ducks, hawks, gulls, warblers et cetera) are excellent. The descriptions are generally very good, and contain useful distinguishing information including vocalizations and distinctive movement patterns. The range maps are easily read, and at the front of the book, there are pages explaining how to identify birds, plumage, anatomy, and sundry other topics of use.<br />Generally, I prefer drawings/paintings to actual photographs when using birding books - I've found that often times, the photographs in birding books are less than good examples of several species, especially when there are one or more variations. Also, with illustrations, the artist controls the lighting, the angle, et cetera. Since this book uses illustrations, so perhaps I'm biased toward it in that way. ...P> The NGS book here is more than sufficient for most birders, I would imagine. Another plus is that it's all the birds of the continent, period; no need to buy an Eastern/Western edition when you travel to other areas of the country.<br />In this newest edition, they have included notations for whether or not the bird is endangered or threatened, as well as a handy one-page \\"quick-find index\\" at the back for finding a general group of birds quickly (for example, finches, jays and hawks,)so one doesn't have to spend precious moments looking through the longer, full index for them.<br />The book is durable, and withstands dampness and even light rain very well. The colors of the birds are very realistic, and they do a wonderful job portraying the different seasonal plumages. It appears that the colors have been modified very slightly from the last edition tolook even better than they did.<br />An excellent book, all around. Naturally, selection of a birding guide is a very personal thing, and while I love this book, others may intensely hate it, preferring photographic guides. My best advice would be to get your hands on as many guides as possible, and see which suits your preferences for size, images, descriptions, and general feel, including portability, ...	2002-12-28
US	52997930	R1IF9F63AGI5YQ	0140869352	617063620	Apt Pupil	Books	3	12	14	N	N	Deeply disturbing	Tom Bowden, when we first meet him, is a bright-eyed, charming, intelligent young man who is, in all respects, an \\"apt pupil,\\" according to his teachers. His parents, whom he calls by their first names, are his pals more than parental figures, and have largely given him free rein in his young adolescent life. Since this is a King novel, though, naturally something about Tom isn't quite right - he has a dark secret. Tom is quietly obsessed with World War II, particularly the concentration camps and the methods used there to kill millions of people.<br />Through dilligent research and sheer coincidence, Tom has found one of the SS's best butchers living in his hometown under a new name and identity. Through blackmail, Tom persuades the old man to tell him many horrible tales of the camp he ran, in terrible detail. They enter into a truly dark and complex relationship, based on trust, distrust, love, hate and mutual compulsions. As the story progresses, the reader feels both empathy and disgust for each of the main characters, and is torn between many emotions as the plot unfolds. The result is a very disturbing study of a side of the human psyche seldom seen, and King does a very good job taking us into that hidden place.<br />Squeamish readers should perhaps stay away from this story, as there are moderately-detailed descriptions of human and animal abuse and murder, and anyone looking for a \\"happy, feel-good\\" story should definitely look elsewhere! I have to say it again, this is a really disturbing tale, not for the faint-of-heart; it left me entirely unsettled, which speaks very well for King's ability to get in there and push all of the buttons he was carefully poking around to find.	2002-12-20
US	52997930	R389L8N6QHKWU6	0671570439	860650224	Contact (Movie Tie-in) Cassette	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Abridged audio version - great story, but too abridged	Jodie Foster does a very nice job reading Carl Sagan's wonderful book, and for those of us who have seen the film, it's easy to imagine her as Dr. Arroway as she leads us through the story. This audio book version, however, is only four cassettes long, and leaves out large chunks of the book, sadly. Still, it's an enjoyable and exciting journey as scientists receive the signal from outer space and rush to decode it. They find multiple layers to the signal, and over time, layers within layers. As the scientists learn that the signal is actually a series of instructions, they must fight many battles, overcoming paranoia and international politics to build The Machine. Finally, the quest for knowledge overcomes even military leaders, and Earth sends five scientists to find out what lies beyond our own small solar system. Their journey, and the answers they find, leads mostly to more questions, and they realize that this is only the first step of a very, very long journey, but that we are not alone in our quest, and that there are many things in the universe humankind never imagined.<br />Fans of the movie will find some elements much different than that adaptation of Sagan's story, though both the film and the book have much to recommend them, and I feel that most people who enjoyed one version will likely enjoy the other - as long as they allow for the inevitable differences that occur between books and movies. I saw the movie first, and read the book second, but still enjoyed both very much.	2002-12-20
US	52997930	R2E5PZEDCPEDMW	0441006159	45282071	The Book of Jhereg	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Vivid, fast-paced, thoroughly entertaining	_Jhereg_:<BR> From the very first passage, I was completely enchanted; it quickly & skillfully drew me in, heart and soul. Brust writes with wit, humor and charm, colorfully describing characters, scenes, thoughts, simply everything about the world he's created. It's obvious that a great deal of thought went into this creation; he passes along casual details that hint of greater stories to come, including histories, myths, and rumors.<br />The central figure is Vlad Taltos, one of the top assassins in the land. The other important figures are his assistants, his wife, a few antagonists, assorted friends and colleagues, but most importantly, his familiar, Loiosh. In addition to being a highly-skilled assassin, Vlad is also a very powerful witch. Loiosh is perhaps his strongest ally, being able to communicate with Vlad telepathically. Several characters are able to communicate this way, and it's a handy method to advance the story more quickly, without intrusive time delays and journeys back and forth. <br />Part of what makes this story so easy to read is Brust's use of common language - he doesn't try to take us back into Olde Tyme, using overly-flowery, excessively eloquent language; he makes use of language as many of us do today, with only a few quirks thrown in to keep things interesting. <br />It takes a lot to charm me this thoroughly, and I can't think of the words to describe how happy I am with this book, and everything about it - the characters, the dialogue, the quick pace, the story line, the plot twists, the detail, the simple elegance, the vivacity of it all. It is, in other words, amazing. I'll bet you won't be disappointed.<br />_Yendi_:<BR>I was enthralled with _Jhereg,_ and eagerly began _Yendi_ immediately upon finishing it, looking forward to once again being thoroughly immersed in the world Brust adeptly weaves around the reader. I was definitely not disappointed. I was a bit confused for the first few paragraphs, until I realized that _Yendi_ is actually a prequel to _Jhereg_.<br />Vlad's voice flows easily, and the words just kind of glide through the reader's head - as the pages turned, pictures and scenes formed in my head without my really being aware of having read the sentences. This is the mark of a truly gifted yarn-spinner. <br />Brust doesn't go to extreme lengths to try to justify everything and explain all of the rules, holding our hands through his thought processes; rather, he drops hints, and uses context to convey items of import. Sometimes, he flat out tells us \\"it's none of your business,\\" or \\"that is a story for another time.\\" He gives small nods to current culture icons such as Monty Python in places, and uses modern language instead of pained, stilted \\"Hie thee hence, lass!\\" \\"Evermore, milady\\" and other such stuffs, making it a much easier, more believable story and setting.<br />A conflict within the House of Jhereg has Vlad being tossed hither and yon, caught right up in the heart of things - would you expect anything less? In the process, he meets two of the land's best assassins, is killed by one of them, falls wildly in love, and of course hatches a plot so clever you could put a tail on it and call it a weasel.<br />A very entertaining next step in what will hopefully prove to be a great series. I'm tackling \\"Teckla\\" immediately!<br />_Teckla_:<BR> _Teckla_ is almost a complete 180-degree turn from the sort of books the first two in this series were; it is a dark, introspective, thoroughly angst-ridden journey through very personal areas of Vlad's soul. I was expecting a light-hearted romp much like the first two stories, and was thusly surprised and a bit disappointed by this book. My mind sometimes wandered as I plodded through the paragraphs, and I found myself thinking of other subjects; my attention just refused to be held by this story, until I came to terms with it being Different.<br />Vlad and Cawti are completely at odds through most of the book, and Vlad is forced toconfront his deepest fears, insecurities, and questions, right down to whether or not he can live with himself and with Cawti. He must face the huge question of being an assassin, or doing what might be The Right Thing...or not.<br />There is quite a deep examination of social inequities, politics, and grass roots movement vs. The Way Things Have Always Been, which isn't my favorite sort of story, but if you like a political/social study, then you may love it. It's a very dark journey that's rather uncomfortable, and Brust puts us right there in the center of Vlad's soul, pressed up close to the discomfort itself - Vlad's inner turmoil is our constant companion, and it's not pleasant company. It's darned depressing, in fact, which is perhaps why I didn't enjoy it as much as the first two.<br />There are, of course, the usual intra-organizational intrigues, multiple assassination attemps, and Vlad is naturally right smack in the middle. Still, there is very little spark to this story, no inner glow, no feel-good bits to keep us going; it almost felt to me like Brust had lost his enthusiasm for the series, or had run out of steam, or perhaps he was just trying something new that I wasn't as wild about. One thing, however, is developed more thoroughly here, and that is the relationship between Loiosh and Vlad, which had been fairly superficial in the first two. They gain depth and dimension, and we understand the bond between them more clearly after reading _Teckla._ <br />Still, honestly? I didn't enjoy this book a great deal. It's not a bad book, and it's well-written, but it was an uncomfortable, fidgety read. I looked forward to it ending, whereas with the first two, I wanted them to go on and on. Hopefully with the next installment (which I'll pick up straightaway,) Brust will take us back to a happier time for Vlad.	2002-11-19
US	52997930	R360HGTP0GREA5	0879857986	54919420	Kodak Professional Photoguide (6th edition)	Books	3	16	23	N	N	The word &quot;Professional&quot; is key	I wasn't paying close enough attention when I purchased this guide - it's definitely above my level. I'm sure it's chock-full of useful tidbits for professional or pro-am photographers, but I looked through it with a growing sense of frustration, confusion and futility.<br />There are sections on film types, film care and storage, exposure, filters, flash, lenses, and other important items, but the level of information presented is rather advanced. There are multiple graphs, calculators, and spinning dials to compute correct values. An 18% gray card in the back is very useful for metering, but not worth the price of the whole book, of course.<br />The size of Kodak's guide is pretty convenient - small enough to fit into most bags without taking up too much space, but not so small that it's unreadable (though the print size is very small.) The charts are in color, and are easy to read. I can't really comment about the actual content provided - while it *looks* very good, I can't be absolutely sure how useful it will be to a true professional.<br />My feeling is this: if you're a photographer who has a solid grasp of the complexities of the art, but want to take your skills to the next *technical* level, this may be for you. If you, like me, are a relative beginner, who wants to learn how to take better photos overall, this is definitely not it. Perhaps consider Ansel Adam's series instead - a prominent photo magazine editor recommends beginning with _The Negative_.	2002-11-16
US	52997930	R1OYPGFEQGGER6	0441662250	422842671	Phoenix	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Yup - Brust does it again.	Each time I get a new installment of the Vlad Taltos series, I can hardly wait to get started, anticipating a fast-paced, clever and completely irreverent ride through a world very like our own, and yet so different from anything we know. _Phoenix_ did not let me down; in fact, this may just be the best book thus far the in series.<br />Cornered and fighting for his life, Vlad half-heartedly calls upon his goddess, Verra, to save him. Much to his astonishment, she does, and in exchange for the rescue, asked him to perform a task for her. That singular task leads to catastrophe for the entire Empire, which in itself would be bad enough, but events revolving around the Teckla/Easterner revolution seem to have Vlad's life hanging by an unravelling thread. Brust skillfully reveals just enough of the plot to answer one question, while bringing several others to light.<br />He also allows us a more intimate view of Vlad's inner life, as Vlad more seriously begins to question his profession and its associated ethics. He realizes that he may not, in fact, loathe the Dragaerans as much as he thinks he does, largely because every time he's in trouble, he turns to two of his closest friends, Morrolan and Aliera. These two Dragonlords are such interesting characters, and are always there to back up their short-lived, human friend for reasons that have yet to be fully revealed, I think. <br />While all of this internal and external chaos is going on, Vlad must also cope with his marriage crashing down all around him, as he tries to save the woman he so desperately loves, but seems to have no use for him anymore. Fortunately, he has Loiosh and Rocza by his side for comfort, and we see a bit more of their respective personalities in this installment, as well as Vlad's Noish-pa, who is a delightful and welcome co-star in the story, rather than a brief cameo as he has been in the past.<br />It's my understanding that this was intended to be the last Taltos book, and the ending wouldindicate this as well; however, I am greatly relieved that there are many books after this one, as I would hate to see this series end. There are so many questions to answer, and so many hugely varied directions Brust could take the characters, that it would seem to stave off the boredom some authors have set in after a few books in the same universe. I sincerely hope he continues to produce the series for many years; I would miss his detailed descriptions of flavors, aromas, actions and feelings as he weaves his clever tales. I would miss the subtle (and often overt) cynicism through which Vlad experiences the world that so closely mirrors my own. I would hate not knowing \\"what happened\\" to these characters who have become virtual companions in my brain - no no, I'm honestly not insane or completely pathetic, I swear! Brust simply does such a good job of bringing them to life, that they occasionally pop into my head to comment on one thing or another. <br />[arching eyebrow]<br />Ok, I can hear you out there, saying \\"Ooooooh boy, this chick's totally lost it. She needs a big, hot steaming mug of reality, and fast.\\" No really! They're just exceptionally vivid characters! I...hey...wait a minute! What're you doing with that funny white coat? I ... HEY! [struggle, struggle, struggle]<br />Alright, before these four large men haul me away, just let me say - read this book! Read the series! You won't be disappointed. :-)	2002-11-15
US	52997930	R2I05C864V2CIW	074352697X	243303903	The Sum of All Fears Movie Tie-In	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Abridged Audio Version - A fairly quick & interesting story	Given the size of the original text, the editors of this audio version must have abridged a metric plethora of text from it to distill the story to only 4 cassettes. Still, what remains is a very interesting, fast-moving story, expertly narrated by David Ogden Stiers. <br />Through a strange series of coincidences, a nuclear bomb arrives on U.S. shores, to be detonated at the Super Bowl, where the U.S. President and various other important U.S. government officials are slated to be. That's really the only storyline in this version of the book - there is very little character development or anything else, for that matter. I feel an unabridged version would be much better, both in text and audio form. <br />It seems that most of the politics were snipped out, as well, which is tragic. Still, this is quick and entertaining, and Stiers does a great job of the reading, including pulling off realistic accents. This version is a good teaser for the full-length book.	2002-11-13
US	52997930	R3CXRXOHBES11E	0441182003	554659900	Taltos	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Fantastic prequel to _Jhereg_	In _Taltos_, Brust takes us farther back into Vlad Taltos's history, before he met Morrolan, and before Aliera came back from the dead. We learn a great deal of Vlad's past, and witness how he came to be the person he is in the following books. Brust uses flashbacks interspersed with current action both to build suspense, and to keep the reader's attention, and it works; so often, authors use this method unskillfully, and it just sucks all of the life out of a plot. Here, though, it served its purpose brilliantly.<br />The book gets underway as Vlad is preparing for some unknown magical ritual, and each chapter begins with a short paragraph about that spell; however, we don't learn what the spell is or why he's performing it until the very end of the book. It does keep the reader's curiosity piqued, though, wondering in the backs of our minds what he is doing, and why he would have to attempt it.<br />The main plot moves quickly and easily; one of Vlad's buttonmen has stolen a large sum of money from him, and Vlad must get it back. Sounds simple enough, but the thief has retreated to Dzur Mountain, a place of much rumor and mystery, alleged home of Sethra Lavode - an undead woman thousands upon thousands of years old, and by all accounts, not terribly friendly. Still, Vlad is determined to find the man and get his money back. Thus, he appeals to Morrolan for assistance, and finds out that both Morrolan and Sethra knew more about the theft than he could have guessed.<br />He ends up accompanying Morrolan (who holds him in utter contempt at this point) to the Paths of the Dead - the place where Dragaerans' souls spend the afterlife, and where the gods reside. Brust does a wonderful job depicting the surreal, otherworldly Paths, as well as the ever-morphing Hall of Judgment. Inside its walls, our party meets several gods, the founder of the Empire,and manages to have Aliera brought back to life (who promptly relieves the founder of the Empire of his Great Weapon.) Butat what cost has all of this come? No living Dragaeran may enter the Paths of the Dead and leave alive; therefore, Morrolan must stay behind eternally, never to return. Needless to say, Vlad and Aliera aren't terribly happy with this idea, and try to figure out how to save their companion.<br />This is a very quick, entertaining read, and brings back a lot of the cynicism and energy the books before _Teckla_ had. I had hoped this would be the case, as I found _Teckla_ somewhat tedious. This is a funny, interesting tale, though, and I'm looking forward to _Phoenix_.	2002-11-05
US	52997930	R19XSK14UDUHU9	0375502971	855322846	A Dog Year: Twelve Months, Four Dogs, and Me	Books	5	9	13	N	N	A simple, beautiful story of a man & his dogs.	Jon Katz has given the reading public a wonderful tale with _A Dog Year_. He gives loving tribute to his two faithful yellow labs, and to his two new, energetic border collies, taking readers through the good times and the bad, showing us the boundless love and frustration. The story had me both laughing out loud, and spontaneously bursting into tears. Throughout the entire book, my heart swelled, because Jon Katz is a man who loves and is utterly devoted to his dogs. He is not perfect, and he doesn't shy away from writing about his own mistakes, especially with Devon the Helldog. <br />As Katz writes of his friends, he allows us an intimate glimpse into each dog's unique character and behaviors, letting us feel close to them. This is not a completely happy story, though, and when two of the dogs die, the reader is right there on the floor with Jon, sobbing alongside him. <br />He also gives us a frank look at the challenges of having a border collie in the household; this should be required reading for anyone considering bringing this breed into their home! Border collies require constant exercise and intellectual stimulation, and Katz gives dozens of examples of how this breed can test the limits of an owner's patience and sanity. Devon is a very lucky dog indeed to have found such a devoted person to take him in after his rocky beginnings in this world; I don't know how many others would have put up with his deliberate tests of will. <br />This is a very moving story, simply about a man's life with his dogs. There is no plot, no overtly-stated moral; just a man, his dogs, and their boundless love for each other. I definitely recommend this book for anyone who loves dogs, and especially for anyone who is still in mourning for a dog they've had to put to sleep. It's a quick read (only a few hours,) but it brings cleansing tears and, with hope, peace. <br />Even now, several hours after having finished the book, I am still filled with the happiness of the dogs I met, my eyes still mist over thinking of the two who passed on, and my respect and admiration for Jon Katz is growing by the minute.	2002-11-05
US	52997930	R2BP748YAWG5B6	1574534769	807397831	Mars	Books	3	2	3	N	N	...when suddenly.....something almost happened!	Image the movie \\"Jaws;\\" now image that rather than the way it actually played out, instead, every time the well-known ominous shark music started to play...nothing ever happened.  This book is much like that movie would be. Bova repeatedly creates potentially-suspenseful situations, building the tension, but then finds an easy way out for everything and all is well again.<br />There are some strong story elements in this book, which could be interesting if Bova had given them just a touch more drama. Instead, we have \\"OH MY GOODNESS, something bad might happen if this sequence of events continues, but thankfully, something intervenes, and nothing will actually occur. Whew!\\" Somehow, Bova makes a hellish alien environment, a meteoroid shower, a mysterious, debilitating sickness, exploring a whole new planet, 4 deathly-ill people stranded in a half-buried Rover, discovering water on Mars, and even more impressive items utterly boring; his writing sucks the very life out of them. Alas!<br />The one strong point to this version of the book is (as much as I  am *loathe* to admit it) Harlan Ellison. He narrates this book with great depth and feeling, and masters a huge variety of accents skillfully, without making them sound like caricatures of themselves. His voice takes us through the ordeals the characters experience, and make it easy to visualize the scene and the characters' emotions. He laughs, puffs, coughs, wheezes, groans, and generally gets totally into things, which makes this book pretty tolerable on the whole. It's too bad that the book doesn't live up to Ellison's narration.<br />My biggest beef with this book is simply the lack of action, the lack of spine-tingling suspense, or any sense that we should care about the people in the book, what they're doing, or why. It's kind of a giant yawn, which was disappointing; I had higher expectation from an author of Bova's calibre. Perhaps it's just that too much was abridged from the book for the audio version, butsurely they didn't change the outcomes of the events themselves? I'm not giving up on Bova entirely; I plan to pick up  either an unabridged audio novel, or a hard copy to see what the editors may have tampered too much with.	2002-10-31
US	52997930	R2DIESM4C1BUXP	020530902X	241676942	The Elements of Style, Fourth Edition	Books	4	20	22	N	N	No writer should be without this reference!	This tiny volume offer more advice on how to become a better writer in less space than any other. While it is not a &quot;fun&quot; read, it is absolutely mandatory for anyone who wishes to communicate through written words. Will Strunk is concise, direct, and unflinching in his examination of many bad habits which writers may knowingly possess.<br />There is an extensive (by this book's standards, at least) section about words that are frequently used incorrectly, as well as rules regarding composition, form, and style. He instructs us with examples of correct and incorrect word, punctuation, and grammar use, and briefly explains each example. One possible complaint is that perhaps at times, he is too brief; this is not a book for someone who doesn't understand the basic parts of speech. If you loathe the idea of relearning those little buggers, may I suggest _The Deluxe Transitive Vampire_, which is a bit more engaging than the standard basic grammar book.<br /><br />Whenever a writer is unsure of what is the correct way to express him- or herself, that person should reach for this book. Heck, reading it over in spare moments to refresh one's memory of the rules. _Elements of Style_ will make a better writer of anyone who pays attention to it. Keep it by your writing space, keep it in mind.	2002-10-30
US	52997930	R39LUR24A7T1BQ	0743504445	241269653	Dreamcatcher: A Novel	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Not terribly satisfying	\\"Dreamcatcher\\" is a tale that has many of the elements found in \\"Tommyknockers,\\" and \\"It,\\" (the four main characters are taken straight from \\"It,\\" in fact,) but it lacks the more fully-developed plot elements of those two stories, and often times seems to lose its own place. There are moments of sheer, inspired brilliance, but there are also long passages that are dull and seemingly pointless. The characters, though, are well-thought-out and vivid, and there is an especially compelling character by the name of Duddits, a Downs Syndrome boy whom the four main characters rescue in their early childhood, and who ends up rescuing them in many ways - sounds a bit trite, perhaps, but King really got this part of the story right.<br />King moves us backward and forward in time, revealing bits of the characters' pasts, showing us the same experiences from different peoples' perspectives, and generally doing a good job of weaving together complex and seemingly unrelated strands of the story. The trouble is, something just doesn't work here. The ending isn't especially psychologically satisfying, as King tries to explain one of the book's many intriguing phenomenon, but fails to do so an in interesting, cohesive manner. He seems to struggle as he relates the significance of the dreamcatcher, as well; it's almost as if he's saying the same things over and over, just in a slightly different way, as if he couldn't quite nail it down. I understood what he meant, but he didn't ace the description and the conections as he usually does. In that process, he almost makes one of the main struggles seem superfluous, and this didn't sit well with me. .... <br />The plot of \\"Dreamcatcher\\" is much like \\"X-Files\\" meets \\"Stand By Me;\\" aliens have invaded the Earth, and it's up to four unlikely heroes to save us all. While the aliens *look* exactly like what we might expect ... they are in actuality something entirely else - a kind of intelligent fungus that infect their hosts through a red,moss-like growth, which can then develop into a legless, weasel-like creature with nasty teeth and a horrible appetite. While infected with the fungus, or when near the aliens themselves, people develop a form of telepathy, which of course leads to many interesting scenarios and adds to the overall suspense and depth of the story. King does a good job of describing telepathic communication and its shortcuts, and also does well describing the void that one of the characters feels when the telepathy leaves him.<br />Throughout the book, more and more of the boys' unusual childhood and their unique friendship with Duddits is revealed, we come to understand their lives intimately, and care greatly about what happens to them. Speaking of which, this is a very gruesome story, with graphic depictions of violence and pain, and in places I was fairly uncomfortable. ... The issue I had the most trouble with was the hapless border collie which becomes infected with the weasel creature, and goes through all of the associated suffering; as an animal lover, that was especially difficult to listen through. I believe King understood that dog people would have a lot of issues with this, so he mercifully allows the dog to become unconscious when his discomfort reaches levels that would have caused me to turn off the tape and never turn it back on again. But the gore and such don't wash out the story elements in the overall picture. <br />The aliens are not the only enemy in this novel; King introduces us to the evil, sociopathic Col. Kurtz, ... who only looks out for himself, at the expense of any who get in his way. He is intelligent, but superficial and largely a caricature of a totally wigged-out, high-ranking military man who's lost his mind. As his Top Secret military operation involving the destruction of the aliens goes horribly awry, he slips farther and farther off the deep end, until he finally begins a quest for revenge that clearly demonstrates the level of his sociopathy.<br />In between truly horrific moments, there are some snort-out-loud funny passages and dialogue, especially in the telepathic conversations between Jonesy and an alien learning about what it means to be ...  human. Insane cravings for bacon, learning how to swear, and discovering emotions all provided moments of humor and interest.<br />Jeffrey Demunn nails his narration - his voice has pleasant tones, and his inflection is almost always perfect for the scene at hand. He comes up with convincing voice characteristics for almost every character, and does a wonderful job with Mr. Gray, one of the aliens. <br />Overall...I'm glad I \\"read\\" this book, but I find myself wishing that King had really aced the story, because it could have been great, and as it stands now, it's only \\"good.\\" The premise was interesting, and carried out well about two-thirds of the way, but that other third...it just left me a little disappointed.	2002-10-27
US	52997930	R3SG7AJPINL6CS	0762704284	359169935	Basic Essentials Knots for the Outdoors, 2nd (Basic Essentials Series)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Generally useful, sometimes difficult to follow	Cliff Jacobson's second edition of this book is, by and large, a very handy field guide. Most of the illustrations are easy-to-follow, but some are infuriating and frustrating. As a plus for left-handed folks, he includes how-to diagrams for them, too. <br />Jacobson starts out with some basic rope care guidelines, and how to select the right rope for the task. He then goes over the 10 most useful knots, and then moves on to more complex and less-often-used knots. There's a small tear-off card with a few handy knots on it that's easy to slide into a pocket or pack. The book itself is fairly small and thin, too, but probably larger than I'd want to take on a long hiking/camping trip.<br />By and large, it's useful; but I have a sneaking suspicion that there are better knot-tying books out there, with better diagrams (especially for beginners.) I gotta say it again; I got *really* frustrated with some of Jacobson's.	2002-10-26
US	52997930	R1M4845T8INO5N	0684853523	44310359	On Writing:  A Memoir of the Craft	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Guidance from a friendly master of the craft	One of the things I've always loved about Stephen King's works is his no-nonsense, no-BS, straight-forward way of speaking to his readers. _On Writing_ contains that same intimate, friendly tone and offers solid advice for those of us who are struggling in the initial throes of Being A Writer.<br />King gives very few hard-and-fast rules in this book; mostly, he talks about the *process* he goes through when writing, and how it might work for others. He also gives some of his own back story in short memory-flashes which go back to his childhood, early adulthood, and recent events, which gives us insight into King both as a writer, and as a person. Throughout the book, too, is his overwhelming and obvious love for his wife, Tabitha, and what a crucial role she plays in everything he is and does.<br />He talks about the tools writers must (or should) use, and how to employ them, sometimes with ruthlessness, sometimes with great care, and he goes over the mechanics of writing and how to make it better. He briefly covers agents and publishers. His main point, though, is about _language_ - how to use it to best communicate a point, set a scene, describe a person, and how to accomplish these things without *over*doing them.<br />There is some really great advice in here, and at times King comes across as a patient, fatherly figure, who gives us permission to explore everything we can think of, and to not worry too much about how good it is during the first draft. He talks about instinctive use of words, and putting ourselves right out there in the open, where everyone can see us - but first, doing it in a safe place, where we can get everything out and onto the page without fear.<br />_On Writing_ is a book non-writer King fans can enjoy, too, as it gives glimpses (and sometimes long, hard stares) into King's life and times. He discusses difficult subjects, such as his alcohol and drug abuse problems, his recent near-death experience with a blue van, and how writing (in large part) helped him to pull through these events.<br />This is a very good book, and is a quick read - I read it in sips and gulps over the course of about two days. Four stars instead of five because it is, perhaps, too brief - reading this would make King's hair stand up on end and he would utter a blood-curdling shriek, because he was aiming for brevity in this book. He achieved it, but it makes me wonder how much better it could have been if he'd given himself free rein. His head has got to be jam-packed with ideas that would have worked into this book beautifully, and I think perhaps we, the readers, are poorer for those ideas not having been there.<br />Still, I'll keep this by my desk, and I know I'll refer to it from time to time, highlight certain inspiring and useful passages, and it will have its place firmly in my heart, because it let me get to know one of my favorite writers a bit better.	2002-10-24
US	52997930	R2OH75ROJBLNTE	0441799779	198712677	Teckla	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Definitely a different sort of story than the first two	\\"Teckla\\" is almost a complete 180-degree turn from the sort of books the first two in this series were; it is a dark, introspective, thoroughly angst-ridden journey through very personal areas of Vlad's soul. I was expecting a light-hearted romp much like the first two stories, and was thusly surprised and disappointed by this book. My mind wandered as I plodded through the paragraphs, and I found myself thinking of other subjects; my attention just refused to be held by this story.<br />Vlad and Cawti are completely at odds through most of the book, and Vlad is forced to confront his deepest fears, insecurities, and questions, right down to whether or not he can live with himself and with Cawti. He must face the huge question of being an assassin, or doing what might be The Right Thing...or not.<br />There is quite a deep examination of social inequities, politics, and grass roots movement vs. The Way Things Have Always Been, which isn't my favorite sort of story, but if you like a political/social study, then you may love it. It's a very dark journey that's rather uncomfortable, and Brust puts us right there in the center of Vlad's soul, pressed up close to the discomfort itself - Vlad's inner turmoil is our constant companion, and it's not pleasant company. It's darned depressing, in fact, which is perhaps why I didn't enjoy it as much as the first two. <br />There are, of course, the usual intra-organizational intrigues, multiple assassination attemps, and Vlad is naturally right smack in the middle. Still, there is very little spark to this story, no inner glow, no feel-good bits to keep us going; it almost felt to me like Brust had lost his enthusiasm for the series, or had run out of steam, or perhaps he was just trying something new that I wasn't as wild about. One thing, however, is developed more thoroughly here, and that is the relationship between Loiosh and Vlad, which had been fairly superficial in the first two. They gain depth and dimension, and we understand the bond between them more clearly after reading \\"Teckla.\\" Loiosh actually offers opinions that go beyond snide one-liners, and we can see more affection between them.<br />Still, honestly? I didn't enjoy this book a great deal. It's not a bad book, and it's well-written, but it was an uncomfortable, fidgety read - or at least it was for me. I looked forward to it ending, whereas with the first two, I wanted them to go on and on. Hopefully with the next installment (which I'll pick up straightaway,) Brust will take us back to a happier time for Vlad.	2002-10-16
US	52997930	R2HIK44RXEK1LS	0441944604	183410012	Yendi	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Brust's excellent storytelling continues	I was completely enthralled with &quot;Jhereg,&quot; and eagerly began &quot;Yendi&quot; immediately upon finishing it, looking forward to once again being thoroughly immersed in the world Brust adeptly weaves around the reader. I was definitely not disappointed.<br />I was a bit confused for the first few paragraphs, until I realized that &quot;Yendi&quot; is actually a prequel to &quot;Jhereg,&quot; taking place earlier in time. Vlad is just getting started in the organization, and naturally encounters some resistance in the process. While the formula is somewhat the same (mystery unravelled at the last second, after much intrigue set in fantasy world,) it works exceptionally well. <br />Vlad's voice flows easily, and the words just kind of glide through the reader's head - as the pages turned, pictures and scenes formed in my head without my really being aware of having read the sentences. This is the mark of a truly gifted yarn-spinner. The same wit, humor, and clever banter that was so successful in &quot;Jhereg&quot; is liberally sprinkled through &quot;Yendi,&quot; as well, and the characters are highly-believable. <br />The world Brust has created is vivid, and he doesn't go to extreme lengths to try to justify everything and explain all of the rules, spoon-feeding the reader, holding our hands through this thought processes; rather, he drops hints, and uses context to convey items of import. Sometimes, he flat out tells us &quot;it's none of your business,&quot; or &quot;that is a story for another time,&quot; or &quot;you really don't need to know all of it, but.&quot; It's great stuff, and I love his voice. He gives small nods to current culture icons such as Monty Python in places, and uses modern language instead of pained, stilted &quot;Hie thee hence, lass!&quot; &quot;Evermore, milady&quot; and other such stuffs, making it a much easier, more believable story and setting.<br />A conflict within the House of Jhereg has Vlad being tossed hither, thither and yon, caught right up in the heart of things - would you expect anything less? In the process, he meets two of the land's best assassins, is killed by one of them, falls wildly in love, and of course hatches a plot so clever you could put a tail on it and call it a weasel.<br />Loiosh has a bit more to say in this volume, but is still mostly confined to one-liners - I do wish Brust would give Vlad and his familiar a more substantial relationship. The co-stars in the story have depth, great lines, and play crucial parts in the Vlad's life and in the plot in general. <br />A very entertaining next step in what will hopefully prove to be a great series. I'm tackling &quot;Teckla&quot; immediately!	2002-10-15
US	52997930	R193ETM82PBVVD	0441385540	367324940	Jhereg	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Completely & utterly charming	From the very first passage, I was completely enchanted with this book. It's been several years since I've read any fantasy books, but this one quickly & skillfully drew me in, heart and soul. Brust writes with wit, humor and charm, colorfully describing characters, scenes, weapons, animals, thoughts, simply everything about the world he's created. It's obvious that a great deal of thought went into this creation; he passes along casual details that hint of greater stories to come, including histories, myths, and rumors. <br />The central figure is Vlad Taltos, one of the top assassins in the land. The other important figures are his assistants, his wife, a few antagonists, assorted friends and colleagues, but most importantly, his familiar, Loiosh. In addition to being a highly-skilled assassin, Vlad is also a very powerful witch. As a boy, he called a small, dragon-like creature to him, and asked her to give him one of her eggs. He would raise her baby as his own, teaching him, befriending him, and protecting him. Naturally, she agrees, and Loiosh is perhaps his strongest ally, being able to communicate with Vlad telepathically. Several characters are able to communicate this way, and it's a very handy method to advance the story more quickly, without intrusive time delays and journeys back and forth. But the bond between Vlad and Loiosh is very deep, and is something I would like to see developed more in the coming books; in this story, the dialogue was mostly superficial, with only rare exception. <br />In all honesty, I think Brust made Loiosh a little too...\\"Jersey\\" may be the right word for it; he's got a lot of attitude, which is obviously part of his charm, but the constant \\"yes, boss\\" and sarcastic comments kept making me grimace. That being said, however, part of what makes this story so easy to read is Brust's use of common language - he doesn't try to take us back into Olde Tyme, using overly-flowery, excessively eloquent language; he makes use of language as many of us do today, with only a few quirks thrown in to keep things interesting.<br />The world he has created here is rich and vast, teeming with widely-varying people and places, each with distinct traits and histories. I sincerely hope that Brust manages to keep the magic alive throughout this series without going campy or formulaic. I'm eagerly looking forward to the next book in the series, and in fact, as soon as I save this review, I plan to start reading it, despite the fact that it is now 2:30am.<br />I really, truly recommend this book - it's an encompassing experience that will bring you into a new world almost completely, if you have any affinity for the genre whatsoever. I honestly can't wait to see what's around the next corner. :-) It takes a lot to charm me this thoroughly, and I can't think of the words to describe how happy I am with this book, and everything about it - the characters, the dialogue, the quick pace, the story line, the plot twists, the detail, the simple elegance, the vivacity of it all. It is, in other words, amazing. Give it a shot, and you won't be disappointed.	2002-10-09
US	52997930	R2L7GYF0LXEHIG	0739300105	237509158	Black House	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Mixed bag	There are incredibly awesome elements to this story - the premise is a good one, there are some very original and creative characters, concepts and scenes, and the narration is excellent. However, the story is not without its flaws. The first half of the book moves very, very s l o w l y; fifteen minutes spent describing every single detail of a street or town, passage upon passage in just a bit too flowery of language on elements that have little or nothing to do with forwarding the plot, et cetera.<br />The rich characters are enough to make up for a lot of the superfluous material, though, and the story is compelling enough to keep my interest through most of the slower bits. There are some sections in which it's really clear which author is writing, and some in which it's not, but by and large, they are seamless transitions and seemingly easy collaboration.<br />I listened to the 15 tapes mostly driving to and from a volunteer position two hours away, and it made the miles pass pretty quickly. The narrator's voice is very soothing, and he gives each character his or her own inflections and personalities. <br />This isn't the best book by King or Straub I've read, but it's not bad. The ending is touching and magickal, and there are moments when I laughed out loud, had tears in my eyes, or a really goofy grin on my face - the story does reach into the reader frequently and pluck a string or two.	2002-10-04
US	52997930	R28G22FZD9Z1WJ	0739300105	237509158	Black House	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Mixed bag	There are incredibly awesome elements to this story - the premise is a good one, there are some very original and creative characters, concepts and scenes, and the narration is excellent. However, the story is not without its flaws. The first half of the book moves very, very s l o w l y; fifteen minutes spent describing every single detail of a street or town, passage upon passage in just a bit too flowery of language on elements that have little or nothing to do with forwarding the plot, et cetera.<br />The rich characters are enough to make up for a lot of the superfluous material, though, and the story is compelling enough to keep my interest through most of the slower bits. There are some sections in which it's really clear which author is writing, and some in which it's not, but by and large, they are seamless transitions and seemingly easy collaboration.<br />I listened to the 15 tapes mostly driving to and from a volunteer position two hours away, and it made the miles pass pretty quickly. The narrator's voice is very soothing, and he gives each character his or her own inflections and personalities. <br />This isn't the best book by King or Straub I've read, but it's not bad. The ending is touching and magickal, and there are moments when I laughed out loud, had tears in my eyes, or a really goofy grin on my face - the story does reach into the reader frequently and pluck a string or two.<br />I have not read the Dark Tower books yet, but they aren't a prerequisite for understanding this story - it stands out on its own just fine. A quick plot summary - strange things are afoot in a little town in Wisconsin called French Landing; there's an overwhelming feeling of...\\"slippage.\\" A cannibalistic pedophile serial killer called The Fisherman is on a rampage, and children are going missing, only to turn up horribly dead. Fortunately for French Landing, a certain former L.A. homicide detective named Jack Sawyer now lives in town, and he's a crackerjack, a Copisman. Jack teams up with the local chief of police, and several unlikely characters - the Thunder Five, a ground of exceptionally well-educated, Harley-riding, rabble-rousing hooligans. Jack also has experience in certain supernatural adventuring, and it's a darned good thing, as the search for the latest kidnapping victim and the hunt for the Fisherman will lead the Sawyer gang into the strange world of the Crimson King and his multitudes of children slaves.<br />That's just the tiniest, tiniest taste, though - a complete plot description would take pages upon pages, because there is truly an insane amount of thought and detail in this story. Most of it is enjoyable, some of it made me a bit impatient. Reading this book in hard copy might be a better option, as it would be easier to flip past the obviously slower material.<br />You can see I'm flipping back and forth on my level of enthusiasm here, can't you? It's true, I can't really make up my mind, which speaks a bit unto itself. Ah well...	2002-10-04
US	52997930	RZ0YZ7GHV7WPX	0767902521	157497316	A Walk in the Woods: Rediscovering America on the Appalachian Trail (Official Guides to the Appalachian Trail)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A book much like the hike it covers	Like a lot of long hikes themselves, this book starts off strong, but then losses momentum, energy, spark. The first third-to-a-half of it is witty, sparkling, very easy to get through. However, as the journey is broken up into pieces, so is the flow of the story. It's almost like as Bill loses his enthusiasm for the hike, he also loses it for telling the story - the annecdotes are fewer and farther between, the jokes less punchy, and the weariness of the seemingly-endless trail settles down over the reader's shoulders.<br />That said, however, it's not a bad book - Bryson is a talented writer, and his writing is honest and easy to read for the most part. So honest, in fact, that at times I wondered if he and his walking companion are still speaking to each other - sometimes, he shows a terribly unflattering side or two of Stephen. <br />Bryson gives a very revealing portrayal of the trail itself, too; its grandeur, its hardship, its ruthlessness, and its simple serenity. He simultaneously makes me want to get out there and hike the AT, the PCT or the CDT, but at the same time he doesn't give me false hope that it's going to be a simple walk in the park. This is definitely not a &quot;how to hike the trail&quot; book, but he surely does give a few tips that might be useful to a through-hiker.<br />It's an amusing read, for the most part, and gives the reader a few tastes of parts of America that might otherwise be missed. If you've got a half a dozen spare hours, and are interested in hiking or the AT, this isn't a bad way to spend that time.	2002-10-03
US	52997930	R2X9HYLHQWCPFQ	0393050327	637283524	The Perfect Storm: A True Story of Men Against the Sea	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Fascinating, much different from the film (go figure!)	I really enjoyed Junger's cadence and tone throughout this book - he wrote about painful events with respect and consideration, and maintained and interesting pace throughout the book. People looking for the true story behind the film will likely enjoy this book, whereas people who want the same sort of story the film portrayed will likely be disappointed.<br />Nobody really knows what happened aboard the Andrea Gail, and Junger only makes a couple of suppositions - he does not try to exaggerate the known facts, or speculate overly-much about what may have happened. He concentrates upon what is known, and what the actual people who were involved with the people on board the Andrea Gail believe. <br />He goes into great detail about the people, the places, and the boats, and he writes about the rescue personal with the tremendous respect they all deserve. There are moments of suspense and action in the book which are truly heart-pounding, there are moments of tenderness and sorrow that brought tears to my eyes, and there are elements of luck, irony, and nearly every other human emotion possible in this story.<br />It's a relatively quick read, since it's written in with a largely journalistic tone - the sentences flow through the reader quickly and easily. While the subject matter is heavy, indeed, the words are not difficult to digest. The story engages the imagination, but doesn't weigh the reader down with overly-verbose, flowery, or heavily-sentimental language.<br />A very interesting story that gives some insight into the dangers fishermen and women face every single day.	2002-09-28
US	52997930	R2M8FL2YQXY7IJ	0446530573	528138219	The Sopranos Family Cookbook: As Compiled by Artie Bucco	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Excellent recipies, fun Sopranos extras	The recipies in this cookbook/Sopranos storybook are fabulous, and the extra Sopranos material is really fun to read. There are photos, stories, &quot;interviews&quot; with characters, family backgrounds, and many other items that make this book a must-have for any Sopranos fan.<br />The real stars of the book, though, are of course the recipies; everything from Carmella's baked ziti (a snap to make!) to recipies from Artie's own kitchen. Each character has his or her own chapter, and different kinds of food within it. Tony, naturally, has the chapter on grilling. [grin]<br />A really fantastic addition to any kitchen or bookshelf - enjoy, and buon appetito!	2002-09-28
US	52997930	R2MIJDFG5CTYOB	0312983271	746882277	Full House (Max Holt No. 1)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Er, a romance novel?	That's definitely not what I expected when I picked up this reworked and rereleased novel from Janet Evanovich, but I still enjoyed it. I'd give it 2.5 stars, if that were an option, just because the plot is one giant cliche. Fortunately, the cliched plot is somewhat saved by Janet's humorous writing.<br />This story is nearly every girl's secret fantasy - rich, handsome, funny, suave womanizer falls madly in love with Everyday Woman Like Us. Ugh, predictable! I should hate this! Sadly, my inner teenage girl ate it right up, rather voraciously - she loves that whole gratification of desires thing. [sigh] OH, the humanity...<br />I much prefer Evanovich's Stephanie Plum series, but this wasn't bad, especially considering it's an early work for her. Hopefully this won't get me hooked on romance novels in general - I'm not quite sure I could cope with that. ;-)	2002-09-20
US	52997930	R5PG8CS8O3C6D	1558215573	459632607	The Wolf Almanac	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Outstanding overview of the wolf itself, &amp; its conservation	Robert Busch is considered to be among the top wolf experts, and he's created a fabulous book with _The Wolf Almanac_. He gives concise, accurate information about the wolf's anatomy &amp; physiology, behaviors, social structure, history, evolution, and current range, as well as its role in human culture. He covers predators' roles in nature, the trapping/hunting industry, pet wolves &amp; wolf-dog hybrids, and information about current wolf conservation efforts. Some of the hard stats he gives are out of date, since they are from 1998, and things have changed quite a bit since then, but overall, this is a great, informative book.<br />Busch gives many anecdotes from wolf researchers and conservationists, as well as quotes and stories from the ranching and trapping points of view. There are quite a few gorgeous full-color photos in the center portion, and many black and white photos run throughout. This is a fantastic educational tool for anyone interested in learning more about wolves and their behaviors. Nearly every facet of the wolf is covered in this book.  I am a tour guide at Wolf Haven (South of Olympia, Washington,) and this book is required reading before becoming certified to give the tours - it's that good.<br />There are a lot of really good books out there about wolves, and this one is simply outstanding.	2002-09-03
US	52997930	R214JOIQ2WHZV7	0743400488	25114392	Wolves at Our Door: The Extraordinary Story of the Couple Who Lived with Wolves	Books	5	12	16	N	N	Overwhelming and touching - but not accurate	A day or two after I read this book, I discussed it with someone who has inside knowledge of the Dutchers, and how they treated their wolves. I was appalled to learn that they were not as ethical as they portrayed themselves to be. Further, they completely slammed the WERC, making it sound as if that organization were completely irresponsible and betrayed the wolves - this is simply not true.<br />Still, the book gives an inside view at wolves, and I still recommend it to anyone interested in learning more about the social behaviors of these incredible animals. Just be aware that the Dutchers are presenting a very biased angle, and at times are outright lying.<br />Below is my original review, untouched, so you can see what my reaction was after reading the book:<br />------<br />I approached this book with more than a little trepidation; as a tour guide for Wolf Haven in Tenino, Washington, I have a huge bias against captive wolves. Still as I began to read this book, I found myself completely sucked in, absolutely driven to finish it, and as I write this review, it is after 4:00a.m. - I finished it in one sitting.<br />The Dutchers did not make pets of the wolves, and that right there won me over - the way they managed the pack (or rather, mostly let the pack manage itself) was very responsible, and they gained such valuable insight into wolf behavior that I can't help but believe they did the right thing. <br />The anecdotes of the wolves, their incredibly complex social behaviors, their nurturing and need for companionship...everything about this pack touched me very deeply, and I found myself in tears many times throughout the unfolding story. Tragically, the story does not have a happy ending; prepare yourself for sobs in the final chapter. I simply cannot believe how the WERC betrayed the wolves - it is utterly inexcusable.<br />There is *so* much valuable information in this book, so much that defies the old European Big Bad Wolf legends, so much that reaffirms the Native American beliefs of Wolf as Nurturer and Brother, that it's hard to believe people hunted them almost to extinction here in the lower 48. What an unforgiveable crime.<br />Please read this book if you are at all interested in wolves - I sat down to read \\"just a couple of chapters,\\" and yet here I am, almost 5 hours later. I was totally unable to put the book down, wondering what the wolves were going to do next. Jim and Jamie Dutcher write with honesty, clarity, and compassion that lets the wolves' personalities shine through. This is a truly exceptional volume, and I believe it should be required reading for anyone who thinks that wolves are vicious, evil creatures. I'd buy a copy for every rancher out there, if I only had the money.<br />Read the book, get involved with wolf conservation, do something to help! We owe it to this incredible animal to try to make things right again.	2002-09-02
US	52997930	R2ZSCVVLAFIMAP	0618111204	428973529	Once A Wolf: How Wildlife Biologists Fought to Bring Back the Gray Wolf	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Excellent overview of the wolf's history & current issues	Jim Brandenberg always brings the wolf into our homes vividly and with great skill through his photographs, and in this book, these exquisite photos are paired up with the informative writing of Stephen Swinburne. Swinburne covers an excellent range of topics in this short (but highly-informative) book, including the history of the wolf's extermination in this country, early conservationists, wolf behavior and social structure, myth-busting, the Yellowstone project, and the wolf's future prospects.<br />He brings in quotes and information from Leopold, Mech, Bangs, Askins, and many other notable figures in the wolf conservation movement to give correct facts and information. I wouldn't call this a book for younger children; it's written at perhaps a teenager's level, and younger children might find the statistics and assorted other information boring. However, Swinburne does cover the bittersweet story of wolves Numbers Nine and Ten, which personalizes the struggles wolves today face.<br />Swinburne manages to succinctly cover most of the important issues in this relatively brief book (about a half hour's read, perhaps 45 minutes,) and it's a great way to educate yourself or someone else on the basics of wolf conservation. Highly-recommended!	2002-09-02
US	52997930	R2XRWGK1C2VHJT	0802774628	680951932	To the Top of the World: Adventures With Arctic Wolves	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Very informative, fabulous photos	\\"To the Top of the World\\" is essentially a condensed version of Brandenberg's fantastic book, \\"White Wolf,\\" and is perhaps a better book to acquaint younger readers with wolf-related issues.  This brief volume contains information about human-wolf relations, myth-busting, and of course much about wolf behavior and pack relations. It's also a great way for someone of any age to learn about this magnificent, keystone predator.<br />The wolf has been maligned for centuries, and it's absolutely crucial that we teach our children the importance of the wolf's role in nature; we have only to look to Yellowstone for a direct object lesson in what losing the wolf does to an ecosystem. In 1930, the US Government proudly shot the last wolf in Yellowstone, and that began a 60-year slide into an environmental disaster. Now, with the wolf replaced only seven short years ago, the park is almost completely back in balance again. It's crucial to understand that there are no \\"extra\\" animals in nature, and this book is a wonderful way to begin that learning path.	2002-09-02
US	52997930	R3MKI8BMJO4ZD0	0312265859	52382288	Hard Eight (Stephanie Plum)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	3.5 stars, really - funny & quick to read	This installment of the Stephanie Plum series seemed to fly by very quickly, but it was a good story with classic Evanovich humor liberally sprinkled throughout. Thankfully, Evanovich leaves good cameo characters (such as Grandma Mazur, Stephanie's mom, et cetera) in cameo capacity, and doesn't try to make them integral parts of the story - they work *so* much better when they're just dropping in here and there, adding a few quirks, and then the story moves on. <br />This story involves a possible child endangerment/kidnapping issue, as well as assorted other usual FTA cases. Naturally, Stephanie's luck with cars runs out, one FTA keeps making off with her handcuffs, and various uninvited people end up in her apartment. She works more, um, \\"closely\\" with Ranger in this story (and even meets his female counterpart,) while still trying to figure out what's going on between Morelli and herself. This time around, Stephanie actually does manage to brandish and shoot her gun, though admittedly in one instance, she shoots the remote for her new security system out of sheer frustration. <br />This story was very enjoyable, and provided many laugh-out-loud moments throughout; Janet Evanovich continues to deliver quality stories without letting her formula get tired and dull.	2002-08-27
US	52997930	R316C9O17KCXU5	0694523186	995699181	The Run	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Not bad, if you're driving across North Dakota	As it happens, I actually *was* driving across ND when I listened to this set of cassettes. It was entertaining enough to keep me from completely losing my mind across the relentlessly flat terrain, but this isn't precisely a stunning political thriller. There elements of suspense, and there were moments when I laughed out loud at a well-turned phrase or at a character's action; however, I wouldn't go out of my way to spend hours listening to this novel. <br />The story revolves around Will Lee's bid for the presidential nomination, and the political ups and downs that come with such an expensive, extravagant, exhausting endeavor. The characters do come to life fairly well, and the dialogue is better than a lot of authors'. Still, this is not a hugely satisfying story.<br />This was actually only the second book on tape I've ever listened to, so I may be a bit biased in my opinion of it - it took awhile to get used to being read to, rather than reading myself. <br />Overall, it's \\"ok.\\"	2002-08-15
US	52997930	R1UOKFOL4SNT79	0802776027	879878818	Scruffy: A Wolf Finds His Place in the Pack	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Wonderful wolf book for children	Jim Brandenburg is one of my favorite wolf photographers & authors, and I absolutely love every book of his that I've read. I wasn't paying quite close enough attention to this book when I bought it; I didn't realize it was a children's book! Still, as disappointed as I initially was, as I flipped through it, I realized what a great vehicle this book is to educate children about wolves - he covers issues of dominant and submissive roles within the pack, the role of the omega wolf (Scruffy's place in the pack,) and the hardships of wolves' lives in the Arctic. The photos are excellent, and the text is clearly-written and in large print, very easy for new readers to work through....	2002-08-15
US	52997930	R1FAL4SSM7WUJG	0743505131	276509900	Standoff	Books	2	5	5	N	N	An entertaining bit of fluff	This was the first Sandra Brown book I've been exposed to, so I was unaware that she generally follows the same blueprint. Since this was my first time, as it were, I didn't mind. I listened to this book while driving across the country, and it was entertaining enough to keep my mind off of some of the relentlessly dull terrain.<br />The main character, an implausibly lucky reporter, is assigned a hot story involving two runaway teenagers. She's headed down to speak to a family member, and decides to stop in a tiny little town for supplies - guess who happens to decide to rob the store? But of course, it's our two wayward teens. As the robbery progresses, things get a bit complex as the young girl goes into labor, forcing everyone to reassess the entire situation. Naturally, the labor isn't an easy one, and things go awry, resulting in a life-and-death situation for a number of characters.<br />The relationships between characters are fairly interesting, and of course the love story is a main feature - the growing attracting between the two main characters keeps a strong undercurrent of romantic tension throughout the story. Enid Graham does a wonderful job narrating - she gives each character his or her own inflections and other speech traits, making it much easier to follow the story, and making it much more entertaining overall; she's excellent.<BR>This isn't a great novel, and it isn't a bad one - I wouldn't seek it out again, but it was an amusing way to pass a thousand or so miles on I-94.	2002-08-15
US	52997930	R1ANFGXTHW3YQZ	0312265840	198558647	Seven Up (Stephanie Plum, No. 7) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A bit disappointing, but still funny.	Before I say anything else, let me say this: Don't get me wrong - I love Janet Evanovich's style and sense of humor, and I think she's fabulous. However, while she still provides many laugh-out-loud and snort/chuckle moments in _Seven-Up_, it lacks the brilliance of _One for the Money_ and others in the series. I've said it before, and I'll say it again - if we could magically give her Patricia Cornwell's keen ability to write a relatively complex and compelling crime/myster plot, Evanovich would be stunning. Sadly, I think Evanovich is redoing the same plot, over and over, and it's lost a small amount of its charm. Still, I love her writing style, and I'd continue reading the series, even if she doesn't inject anything new.<br />To sum up a few key points, Stephanie's relationship with Morelli meanders about, as Ranger goes in for the kill. Grandma Mazur has typical Grandma Mazur-esque adventures, Lula provides support and comic relief, random people end up in Stephanie's apartment, she suffers through the standard misfortunes with cars, and a human heart makes the rounds and causes various kidnappings. Bob the dog has a few amusing cameos. She manages not to blow up a funeral home, though. Still, this is standard Plum fare.<br />One thing Evanovich does really well is to invent very polite, considerate, and utterly human \\"bad guys,\\" who end up winning over the audience, despite the fact that they might be trying to kill Stephanie, maybe. Evanovich has got a keen knack for wonderful characters, something that is rare and wonderful in the world. <br />Perhaps _Hard Eight_ will see a return to the truly inspired writing that we all know she can produce, and love it when she does!	2002-06-06
US	52997930	R3PU6YCMRSETA1	1893956172	53039224	The Man Who Grew Young	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Not quite what I expected.	I picked up this book with Quinn's other works in mind - fantastic books like _Ishmael_, _The Story of B_, and such - and thus had high hopes for it. The concept is surely a difficult one to write in a flowing and compelling manner - the universe is collapsing upon itself, and one man is bearing witness to the de-evolution of humankind and all life. Everyone lives their lives backwards, rising up from the ground, and growing younger and younger, until they return to their mother's womb.<br />Quinn tries to impart important points through this story, but I feel that this format is much less impacting than his standard books. The graphic novel is useful to more easily portray concepts that would take paragraphs, but ultimately, it just didn't work for me. Most of the text boxes just didn't *sound* like Quinn to me - the dialogue was flat, stilted...just not up to his usual standard.<br />I really wanted to like this book, because I've loved everything I've run across that Quinn has written. Alas, it just wasn't to be. The introduction was the best part of the book for me, during which he discusses creating &quot;impossible stories.&quot;<br />All in all, this isn't a *bad* book - it just didn't quite work for me as I'd hoped it would. I almost gave it two stars, and if I had my druthers, I'd give it a 2.5.	2002-06-06
US	52997930	R3A65X2ET90YBX	1570611696	586325206	Camping! Washington: The Complete Guide to Public Campgrounds for RVs and Tents	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Very handy	_Camping! Washington_ is a great book for anyone looking to find the perfect spot for a camping getaway. Whether tenting or RV'ing, this is a truly useful book!<br />It's easy to see from the writing that the author truly loves camping and being outside, and that he really has spent a lifetime camping in the Evergreen State. His enthusiasm for great campsites comes shining through, and the entries for each campground are very easily read.<br />There are several useful maps which show campgrounds' locations, and the rating system is very straightforward - 1 tree (barely worth mentioning) through 5 trees (absolutely don't miss this.) Those campgrounds rating 1 tree generally only get mentioned in the backs of the chapters, with very little space devoted to them - the author wants to give us the best camping possible, so he doesn't waste a lot of time telling us what's awful, noting that he only puts them in so that people who hear of these grounds, or who see them on a map know what they may be in for.<br />The books gives a total number of sites within the grounds, and breaks them down by service: &quot;32 full hook-ups, 35 water/electrical hook-ups, RV's to 65 feet.&quot; He also gives contact info for each site, whether or not they accept reservations, and what the open/close dates are (if any.) Very handy! His descriptions of the overall feel of the campgrounds and the surrounding areas are vivid and enjoyable in and of themselves - he's really reawakened the Camping Bug in me.<br />The book goes over the whys and wherefores of making reservations ahead of time, common pitfalls and downsides to certain areas, and  what to expect in terms of general costs (though they don't list individual grounds' prices, as they frequently change.) They also do not mention privately-owned grounds, and go into why they don't. They give a few handy tips about each park that'll make everything easier, too.<br />Keep in mind that this is not a *how* to camp in Washington book (goingover bear precautions, et cetera,) but a *where* to camp book - and it does its job really, really well. Highly recommended to anyone planning to camp in our beautiful state.	2002-06-04
US	52997930	R2WOVOFWF8EF5S	0446603775	972640933	Dawn (Xenogenesis, Bk. 1)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Outstanding alien culture and physiology, compelling story	In _Dawn_, Octavia E. Butler has created not only an excellent story, but also penned one of the most interesting and complex alien civilizations and beings that I've read in a loooong time. <br />The driving point for the plot is that human beings have nearly destroyed themselves and the Earth in a nuclear war. The alien species, the Oankali, rescued as many humans as they could find, taken them aboard their ship, and have helped the people and the Earth heal over several centuries through unique processes. Why they have done this, however, is to \\"trade\\" with humans - trade genetic material. For some, this price is too high; for others, it is repugnant, but acceptable.<br />The main character, Lilith, is sympathetic, but by no means too perfect or too sweet. She is a strong-minded, highly-opinionated woman who is very resiliant, but who occasionally reaches her limits. Her ooloi (the sexless type of alien,) Nikanj, is also a very interesting character, and the relationship between them is compelling. <br />The book reads very quickly, and Butler has come up with so many unusual ideas, it's very easy to feel Lilith's isolation, desperation, and even her affection for some of the aliens. Butler's writing is not especially striking, but it is competent and interesting. Still, it's her creative ideas that kept me happily turning pages, and not the overwhelming quality of the word arrangement.<br />The book's end did not provide much closure, and the beginning of the next volume picks up quite a ways into the future, leaving many questions I had unanswered. Nevertheless, I'm very much looking forward to really getting into this next installment of the series, _Adulthood Rites_, and I hope Butler maintains the same passion for a good storyline.	2002-05-28
US	52997930	RPKLI7XDSJNZ0	0312976275	963436946	Hot Six (Stephanie Plum, No. 6) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Evanovich at her best	_Hot Six_ was the first book in the Plum series that I read, and I loved it so much that I went back and caught up on the rest of the series in short order, and then read _Hot Six_ again - Evanovich has a singular talent, and is now one of my favorite authors. Not every Plum book is a gem, but all are enjoyable.<br />_Hot Six_, much like _One for the Money_, showcases how funny and human Evanovich's writing can be. As I read this book, I laughed out loud many times, chuckled in self-recognition more than a little, and vicariously felt Stephanie Plum's frustration and awkwardness; Evanovich has done an excellent job of writing another book that can completely envelope the reader. It can be a very quick read, as the story flows exceptionally well and kept my interest rivetted, even the second time around - the second time I read it, I stayed up all night after starting it at 10pm and didn't put it down until 5am.<br />The heat between Stephanie and Ranger gets turned up a few notches in several places, and Morelli definitely isn't out of the picture, so the little love triangle becomes interesting. The plot doesn't feel forced or contrived, and it felt like Evanovich really enjoyed writing this one - there are several unexpected quirks to the story that are very enjoyable, including a gun-running boss that Stephanie is supposed to be spying on jumping into her car and asking her to sneak him to the bar, a huge, friendly dog named Bob becoming a part of Stephanie's life, Grandma Mazur moving in with her, and a surprise from Morelli at the end of the book, though I'm waffling on whether or not I want it to turn out the way Evanovich alludes it will.<br />This is better-than-average for the genre, and anyone who has enjoyed previous Evanovich books should really like _Hot Six_ tremendously.	2002-04-20
US	52997930	RQ7DLKZ5KD83U	0385480016	980380074	Bird by Bird: Some Instructions on Writing and Life	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Quietly inspiring	Anne Lamott has written the first openly honest book about the process of writing that I have read, and it was amazingly refreshing to have this perspective. She doesn't get all dewey-eyed about the wonder and the joy that is being a published author; in fact, she does quite the opposite. Without being overly-negative, Lamott points out the many pitfalls and false expectations so many of us aspiring authors are going to fall into. There's a bit that sums this up for me:<br />&quot;But their fantasy of what it means to be published has very little to do with reality. So I tell them about my four-year-old son Sam, who goes to a little Christian preschool where he recently learned the story of Thanksgiving. A friend of his, who is also named Sam but who is twelve years old and very political, asked my Sam to tell him everything he knew about the holiday. So my Sam told him this lovely Christian-preschool version of Thanksgiving, with the pilgrims and the Native Americans and lots of lovely food and feelings. At which point Big Sam turned to me and said, somewhat bitterly, 'I guess he hasn't heard about the small-pox-infected blankets yet.' Now, maybe we weren't handing out those blankets yet; maybe we were still on our good behavior. But the point is that my students, who so want to be published, have not yet heard about the small-pox-infected blankets of getting published. So that's one of the things I tell them.&quot;<br />And so she does - she tells us about what torture it can be not only to try to get published, but to suffer through the writing process itself. Lamott is every bit as neurotics as the rest of us, and makes no bones about expressing her neuroses - she is as honest as we could possibly hope for. But even though she points out those booby traps that we have yet to experience, she still allows her love of writing to shine through, simultaneously encourages us all to Just Keep Writing while managing our expectations of what will come of it.<br />I'm intensely grateful for her voice of experience, and now I feel that I have distanced myself from a lot of the dreams of fame and glory I had about Publishing A Book - writing shouldn't be about that, it should be about writing &quot;the truth as I see it,&quot; even if what I write is a work of complete fiction. <br />Lamott notes many of the mistakes new writers make, including assuming that everything which has happened to us is inherently interesting, making every character sound and feel the same, writing horrible dialogue, not letting characters determine their own destinies, and forcing a plot to do what we want it to do. She offers solid advice on how to get around these issues, and gives us examples of her writing as well as others' to guide us.<br />This is not a quick, light read by any standard - it's a two- or three-day investment in learning how to be a better writer. There are parts which are somewhat disheartening, but Lamott always manages to bring back a writer's enthusiasm for doing what we love - that's the whole point of the book.<br />Her writing style is very entertaining, no-nonsense, and sometimes laugh-out-loud funny; if the reader cannot see him- or herself thinking or doing many of the same things Lamott does, I would be very surprised. <br />I really recommend this book to anyone who would like to become a published author, or for that matter, anyone who writes for any reason at all. Wonderful advice with a realistic edge.	2002-04-10
US	52997930	R34815R8L9P0T9	0898799473	855006135	Dialogue (Elements of Fiction Writing)	Books	1	50	52	N	N	Hideous! [sputter]	\\"This book was awful,\\" I said to Lily.<BR>\\"I know!\\" she replied empathetically. \\"It's horrible! It is, without question, the worst 'how to write' book I have ever read.\\"<br />This book is an unmitigated disaster, start to finish. I don't even know where to begin! <br />The biggest annoyance was the author's unskilled use of the Socratic Method; the entire book is one giant dialogue between a fictionalized author and his foi, with bits of a fictionalized editor thrown into a few places. At one point, Turco's fictional editor says, \\"your strategy in this book is certainly unusual and imaginative ... however, I don't believe it has precisely the effect you intended.\\" Unless, of course, his intent was to bore the bejeezus out of his audience...<br />Throughout the dialogue, the Author (always capitalized in the book) comes across as egotistical, condescending and impatient. Speaking of \\"impatient,\\" I found myself incredibly bored throughout the book, and often sighed with exasperation. I wished it would either have moved more quickly or covered the points more thoroughly - one or the other. Instead, it lives in some frustrating middle land, neither informative and interesting nor quick and light. It's vexing and leaves soooo much to be desired. At many points, my brain shrieked \\"why can't this just END?!\\" and yet I kept reading, hoping to glean something useful, hoping the author would have something good to offer. I searched in vain.<br />The Socratic dialogue would have been useful in places, to show examples and illustrate do's and don'ts; however, as a style for the entire book, it just drove me like oxen. The story is not interesting enough to read as a storoy, and it's not informative enough to read to learn anything. Turco could have either used a different style, or he could have made Fred Foyle (ha, ha - get it? \\"Foyle,\\" \\"foil?\\" Oh, wackiness!) a more interesting and sympathetic character. As it stands, he was a whiny, frustrated, completely uninteresting nuisance.<br />Worse, Turco frequently makes comments which lead me to believe he understood that this book doesn't work - and yet he forged ahead, seemingly oblivious to his editor's and his own misgivings. Argh! Passages such as this are sprinkled throughout: <br />\\"I thought he'd never leave,\\" Fred writes. \\"Sure I can type. Whatever he can do, I can do as well or better. This business of being Fred Foyle is a drag. Why could it have been I whom am the author instead? I could have invented him instead ... no, I'd have invented someone else, just to get even ... only, if I were the author and he weren't invented, how could I get even with him? Man, this is getting too philosophical for a book on how to write dialogue in fiction. Let's keep it simple.\\" <br />Ah, if only Turco had taken his own advice!<br />He also uses the same example of a dialogue involving a secretary and a teacher over and over and over again, despite his own admission that it's *boring* and painful. ARGH! He uses stereotypes and many places, and one of his example stories, \\"Savants,\\" was so incredibly offensive that I was tempted to put the book down right then. <br />I truly cannot convey how awful this book was - the *entire* time I was reading it, I had this huge, impatient tightness in my chest, pleading with me to stop. But, as I said, I kept going in hopes of learning something.<br />To be fair, there are a few handy tidbits in here (don't use too many adjectives and adverbs in tag lines, don't go on and on, and don't use overly-complex tag lines as an excuse to avoid writing the dialogue itself,) but there's nothing that can't be learned elsewhere with less torment.<br />My advice? DON'T BUY THIS BOOK! If you happen across any copies of it, back away slowly without making any sudden movements. It is EVIL!	2002-04-03
US	52997930	R2OJIZA958NVLE	0312971346	442694342	High Five (Stephanie Plum, No. 5) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A fantastic demonstration of Janet's talent	After absolutely loving the wonderful first book in this series, _One for the Money,_ I found the others somewhat lacking; they were still entertaining for the most part, but they lacked the same spark and didn't draw me in as fully as the first book. _High Five_, however, is fantastic!<br />Stephanie's inner diaglogue is as entertaining as ever, and the plot pulled me along right to the end. There are very few dull moments in the book, and the heat between Morelli and Stephanie is back, with the pleasant addition of some romantic interest from Ranger as well. Morelli's jealousy of this is really charming.<br />Stephanie's luck with vehicles holds in _High Five_, although it's taken a different tack; rather than having her cars sputter and smoke to a painful death, they are blown up and stolen. She has an FTA take up resident in her apartment, Ramirez the homicidal boxer is back, and her mother frets in the kitchen as usual, as Stephanie agrees to some side jobs working for Ranger that put her in even more interesting situations than usual.<br />A very quick and entertaining read. I highly recommend _High Five_.	2002-04-01
US	52997930	R3ASBSDJIDI39C	0898799015	186685584	The Writer's Guide to Character Traits: Includes Profiles of Human Behaviors and Personality Types (Writer's Market Library)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A great way to flesh out your characters	I wasn't sure what to expect from this book, but when I picked it up looking for assistance, I found the format extremely useful and easy to employ. <br />Edelstein gives us \\"people ingredients -- components that work together naturally, coherently, and authentically.\\" _The Writer's Guide to Character Traits_ is, in many ways, a simplified _Diagnostic & Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders_ that drops much of the information which would be less useful for writers, and presents the crux of each personality style, disorder, et cetera.<br />There are chapters on many useful subjects, such as psychological disorders, criminal styles, sexual styles, love and marriage, career traits, and many others. Edelstein's career as a psychologist has given her a vast experience in observing people and the ways in which they behave, and she distills it down to very concise, informative lists and chapters, while giving advice on how to create believable characters by selecting traits she mentions.<br />This isn't so much a book to be read cover-to-cover as it's a reference to be flipped through when needed. There are a few general informational chapters that will be helpful to read all the way through, but by and large, it's a \\"search for X Type of Character\\" resource.<br />I really recommend this book for any writer of fiction.	2002-03-31
US	52997930	R13PGIDU2P0T1	1559716711	457374072	Chased by the Light: A 90-Day Journey	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Simply amazing, on many levels	Jim Brandenburg has been among my favorite photographers for years, and I've always been overwhelmed by his ability to capture a moment in time so perfectly. _Chased by the Light_ definitely didn't disappoint me at all; in fact, it gave me an entirely new respect and admiration for this amazing man.<br />Most folks know that published photographers often shoot dozens or hundreds of rolls of film for every shot that is published, and Jim is no exception to the rule. What he's done with this self-assignment, only one frame per day for 90 days, shows his courage as well as his commitment to his art. I can't imagine the number of beautiful scenes he must have passed up, perhaps in anguish, knowing he could capture it, if only he broke his own rule \\"just this once.\\" But, he pressed on, searching for His Perfect Moment of the Day. Truly remarkable.<br />Some of the photos presented in this book are less than perfect; Jim's willingness to publish them as is (apart from a bit of cropping, tone and color correction, he says) demonstrates his love of photography, his humbleness, and his human-ness. Most of the shots are better than many of us could take on our best days, with a full roll - that he is able to take only one picture, and come up with something like his 'Maple leaf in pond\\" piece is beyond amazing. <br />His narrative is really what makes the book, though; read any of his books, and you'll find yourself drawn onward by his voice as well as his photos, because he gives you a peek of what goes on behind the lens, who the person is who takes the pictures, and why a particular shot appealed to him (or how he stumbled upon it completely by chance.) Jim's photos makes it look easy, but his words let us know his struggles as well as his passion for his subjects.<br />It takes remarkable skills to find the wildlife shots he has - his abilities as a tracker must be absolutely incredible. Most of us will never see the animals shown here in their natural, undisturbed settings. Fortunately for us, Jim brings back some of his experiences by which we may experience a vicarious thrill.<br />I have only a few people in this world whom I call \\"role models,\\" but Jim Brandenburg is among them. Thanks to this book, I now have even more reason to love this man, his devotion to nature, and his photographs.	2002-03-29
US	52997930	R30KJAQN6R28ZI	0809236818	919233861	The Book of Poisonous Quotes	Books	3	18	19	N	N	I was looking for more vitriol	There are some amusing and chuckle-able quotes in this book, but overall I was hoping for something with more &quot;bite&quot; to it. There are only a few quotes here with practical application, something you could throw out at a moment's notice for a retort. The self-criticism section is probably the best here, and the most memorable quotes are the old film divas' classic one-liners.<br />The organization by subject is very handy, but overall I was fairly disappointed. Alas.	2002-03-26
US	52997930	R1EC6ZQ7H14YSB	0312966970	935167398	Four to Score (Stephanie Plum, No. 4) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A quick & very funny read	In _Four to Score_, Evanovich recovers the tremendous wit and sparkle she showed in _One for the Money_. The writing flows easily, and the pages almost turn themselves. The plot isn't overly-complex, and it doesn't feel forced or contrived like _Two for the Dough_ did. The relationships between the main characters crackle as they did in the first book, and everything comes alive  once more with Evanovich's pleasant style.<br />The main plot line in this installment has Stephanie chasing after Maxine Nowicki, who skipped on bail after an ex-boyfriend filed a car theft charge against her. Naturally, things go awry, various things belonging to Stephanie get blown up, and people who have spotted Maxine are turning up dead. The usual cast assists (or hinders) her in her investigations, and the book flows well.<br />The reader may or may not predict the ending, but it doesn't really matter much, because it's the ride through the story that'll provide the enjoyment here. I'm glad I didn't abandon the series after the unfortunate second book, and the luke-warm third. I really recommend _Four to Score_.	2002-03-26
US	52997930	R19V0J0MRVORSP	0609600745	517891621	The Art of Doing Nothing: Simple Ways to Make Time for Yourself	Books	4	15	20	N	N	A great way to begin doing &quot;nothing&quot;	Vienne's words coupled with Lennard's almost otherworldly, sepia-toned photographs, offer the reader a chance to escape the busy world for awhile and relax. Candles and a nice steaming bath would be a near-perfect environment in which to enjoy this brief, simple book, simultaneously reading it and living its message.<br />There's no astounding, mystical wisdom contained here, only the reminder of things we already know, and perhaps have forgotten in our 9-5, materialism-driven world. Vienne offers several rituals to take time out to enjoy yourself and recharge the batteries that can get so run down in a success-oriented culture. She gives advice on breathing, meditation, bathing, and even on how to cure a common cold. <br />This little book is a very nice way to spend an hour or so, and its lessons can help us enjoy the rest of our days to come.	2002-03-22
US	52997930	R3M53ZN89D2ITS	0743216393	338302615	Three Plums In One: One for the Money, Two for the Dough, Three to Get Deadly (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	4	8	11	N	N	A lot of fun characters & laughter	_One for the Money_:<br />The first book I read by Janet Evanovich was _Hot Six_, in which I fell in love with all of the characters, and vowed to read the entire series. The first book in that series, _One for the Money_, didn't disappoint.<br />Stephanie Plum is someone that nearly any woman can easily relate to, thanks to Evanovich's singular ability to make her characters incredibly human. On nearly every page, there is something to make the reader chuckle in appreciation and self-recognition, and the belly laughs are liberally sprinkled in as well. The wit and humor aren't the only draws to this book, as they were with Dave Barry's _Big Trouble_; Evanovich has a good plot, and she develops it well, cultivating suspense and curiosity throughout the story.<br />As Plum learns How to Be a Bounty Hunter while chasing after a cop charged with murder, she develops very believable relationships with her partner, (Ranger,) the cop she's chasing, (Morelli,) and sundry other people throughout the book. We follow her as she's chased by a sociopathic champion boxer, lives through really bad financial times, rummages for the keys to the car she's \\"comandeered\\" from Morelli after he throws them into a<BR>dumpster, deals with her overly-protective mother, and suffers through numerous embarrassing situations that rarely feel too contrived.<br />A thoroughly enjoyable and quick read that'll keep you turning the pages. Evanovich writes the way I truly wish I could, and I look forward to the rest of the series. <br />_Two for the Dough_:<br />Sadly, _Two for the Dough_ lacked the sparkle of the first story in this book others. The belly-laughs were largely missing, as was a compelling plot. The characters are not as lively, and it felt like the whole thing was forced rather than enthusiastically and easily written. <br />Grandma Mazur plays a larger role in this book, and is generally enjoyable, but the idiosyncracies that were so entertaining in the first book are overdone and feel contrived here. The chemistry between Morelli and Stephanie doesn't sizzle as convincingly in _Two for the Dough_, and Ranger is almost entirely absent.<br />This book was fairly disappointing, and I found myself wishing it would end much sooner than it actually did. Still, I have high hopes for the remainder of the Evanovich books, though, because she has incredible talent. I just think _Two for the Dough_ was a bit rushed and that she didn't have a lot of passion for it. Hopefully, her spark and humor will return in _Three to Get Deadly_. <br />_Three to Get Deadly_:<br />Thankfully, halfway through _Three to Get Deadly_, Evanovich once again found her fantastic wit and seems to regain her footing in the characters. Stephanie's self-deprecating humor and bumbling about learning to be a bounty hunter buoys the luke-warm plot during the first half of the book; there are some laugh-out-loud moments, and a myriad of snorts and chuckles. I really enjoy the character of Stephanie - I see much of myself in her, and a lot of the laughter was from self-recognition in her assorted neuroses and thought processes. The development of Lula's character was a very nice addition to the story as well.<br />One thing which disgruntled me during the first half of the book was the almost total lack of the spark that Stephanie had in the first two books; her character virtually crackled with life previously, but here it feels more like plodding until the second half of the story. Additionally, in the first two, she was 5'7\\" and a basically unapologetic 145 pounds - sturdy, and chuckling at how she was really \\"not fragile.\\" In _Three to Get Deadly_,<BR>she is 125 pounds and fretting about her weight. 5'7\\" and 125 pounds is not a weight to fret about! Alas. Pleasantly, though, Ranger is much more a part of this story than he was in the second book, and the tension between Stephanie and Morelli picks up steam again in the last quarter of the story.<br />I'm hoping Evanovich will continue the tradition of vivid characters who continually surprise the reader in the<BR>other books in the series. Grandma Mazur thankfully drops back into the role where she adds a wonderful element to the story, but isn't a driving part of the plot. <br />I'm glad there are many more already written, so I don't have to wait. If only Patricia Cornwell and JaneT Evanovich could kind of merge into one fabulous writer, we'd have Evanovich's tremendous sense of humor and character, with Cornwell's ability to write a suitably complex and interesting crime plot. <br />If you're new to Evanovich, _Three Plums in One_ will definitely give you a taste of her style, to let you know if you'll enjoy the series or not. Having the first three volumes compiled together in one handy volume is a nice way to save bookshelf space, too. <br />If you haven't read the first book in this series, I really recommend picking it up to learn how Stephanie gets into the whole bounty hunter business. Skipping the second book wouldn't leave much of a gap, as important points are mentioned in _Three to Get Deadly_. _Three_ is worth the time to read, though, and I'm looking forward to _Four to Score_.	2002-03-21
US	52997930	R2L4S3KTCPJ5H5	1569751811	431928771	What Would Buddha Do?: 101 Answers to Life's Daily Problems	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Simple, but not overly-simple	When I picked up this book on a lark, I wasn't sure what to expect, I just thought it was an amusing answer to the ubiquitous \\"WWJD\\" slogans. Flipping through it, I was initially disappointed at how simplistic the advice was.<br />However, after I put the book down for awhile, and then came back to it with no expectations, its simplicity was what seemed to be its charm - short, one-page advice regarding everyday problems that can be extrapolated to other areas of life very easily. Take this one, for example:<br />\\"What would Buddha do when he can't resist having dessert?\\"<BR>Metcalf quotes a few lines from Saraha, Dohakosha 64, and then gives his own paragraph of interpretation, which includes reminding us of oneness and interconnectedness - \\"don't wolf the chocolate; think of the labor that brought it to you. When we really experience our desires and fulfillments, we realize oneness with the Buddha way.\\"<br />For the beginning, such as myself, this little book is useful to remind us that Buddhism can be lived all day, every day, even when it seems like there's just no way about something. For the advanced readers, it might help when he or she is struggling with a problem like one named in the book, and needs a point of reference to help them along the way.<br />Overall, I would say it's not a book to be read front to back, so much as it's a book one refers to in times of need; it's not a book that will clearly teach someone \\"how to be a buddhist,\\" but it will offer waypoints along the path. For an excellent introduction to buddhism, try (and don't let the title scare you off) _The Complete Idiot's Guide to Understanding Buddhism_ - that's an *excellent* starter for those wishing to learn about almost every element of this path.	2002-03-21
US	52997930	R2QTNHZTNR6VB2	0312966091	809706185	Three to Get Deadly (Stephanie Plum, No. 3) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Janet got a little of her spark back	I really loved the first book in this series I read, _Hot Six_, and also enjoyed _One for the Money_. I was horribly disappointed with _Two for the Dough_, though, and endured the whole thing just hoping it would end faster than it did. Thankfully, halfway through _Three to Get Deadly_, Evanovich once again found her fantastic wit and seems to regain her footing in the characters.<br />Stephanie's self-deprecating humor and bumbling about learning to be a bounty hunter buoys the luke-warm plot during the first half of the book; there are some laugh-out-loud moments, and a myriad of snorts and chuckles. I really enjoy the character of Stephanie - I see much of myself in her, and a lot of the laughter was from self-recognition in her assorted neuroses and thought processes. The development of Lula's character was a very nice addition to the story as well.<br />One thing which disgruntled me during the first half of the book was the almost total lack of the spark that Stephanie had in the first two books; her character virtually crackled with life previously, but here it feels more like plodding until the second half of the story. Additionally, in the first two, she was 5'7&quot; and a basically unapologetic 145 pounds - sturdy, and chuckling at how she was really &quot;not fragile.&quot; In _Three to Get Deadly_, she is 125 pounds and fretting about her weight. 5'7&quot; and 125 pounds is not a weight to fret about! Alas. Pleasantly, though, Ranger is much more a part of this story than he was in the second book, and the tension between Stephanie and Morelli picks up steam again in the last quarter of the story.<br />I'm hoping Evanovich will continue the tradition of vivid characters who continually surprise the reader in the other books in the series. Grandma Mazur thankfully drops back into the role where she adds a wonderful element to the story, but isn't a driving part of the plot.<br />I'm glad there are many more already written, so I don't have to wait. If only Patricia Cornwell and Janet Evanovich could kind of merge into one fabulous writer, we'd have Evanovich's tremendous sense of humor and character, with Cornwell's ability to write a suitably complex and interesting crime plot.<br />If you haven't read the first book in this series, I really recommend picking it up to learn how Stephanie gets into the whole bounty hunter business. Skipping the second book wouldn't leave much of a gap, as important points are mentioned in _Three to Get Deadly_. _Three_ is worth the time to read, though, and I'm looking forward to _Four to Score_.	2002-03-19
US	52997930	R3MR5AKY2P6GE9	0671001795	876638734	Two for the Dough (Stephanie Plum, No. 2) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Not nearly as good as the first, but still good	I first read _Hot Six_ in the Stephanie Plum series, and absolutely adored it. Likewise, _One for the Money_ was fantastic. _Two for the Dough_, however, lacked the sparkle of those others. The belly-laughs were largely missing, as was a compelling plot. The characters are not as lively, and it felt like the whole thing was forced rather than enthusiastically and easily written. <br />Grandma Mazur plays a larger role in this book, and is generally enjoyable, but the idiosyncracies that were so entertaining in the first book are overdone and feel contrived here. The chemistry between Morelli and Stephanie doesn't sizzle as convincingly in _Two for the Dough_, and Ranger is almost entirely absent.<br />This book was fairly disappointing, and I found myself wishing it would end much sooner than it actually did. Still, I have high hopes for the remainder of the Evanovich books, though, because she has incredible talent. I just think _Two for the Dough_ was a bit rushed and that she didn't have a lot of passion for it. Hopefully, her spark and humor will return in _Three to Get Deadly_.	2002-03-17
US	52997930	RA8GWRKYCD7IS	0061009059	830758196	One for the Money (Stephanie Plum, No. 1) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Laugh-out-loud funny, really solid writing	The first book I read by Janet Evanovich was _Hot Six_, in which I fell in love with all of the characters, and vowed to read the entire series. The first book in that series, _One for the Money_, didn't disappoint.<br />Stephanie Plum is someone that nearly any woman can easily relate to, thanks to Evanovich's singular ability to make her characters incredibly human. On nearly every page, there is something to make the reader chuckle in appreciation and self-recognition, and the belly laughs are liberally sprinkled in as well. The wit and humor aren't the only draws to this book, as they were with Dave Barry's _Big Trouble_; Evanovich has a good plot, and she develops it well, cultivating suspense and curiosity throughout the story.<br />As Plum learns How to Be a Bounty Hunter while chasing after a cop charged with murder, she develops very believable relationships with her partner, Ranger, the cop she's chasing, Morelli, and sundry other people throughout the book. We follow her as she's chased by a sociopathic champion boxer, lives through really bad financial times, rummages for the keys to the car she's \\"comandeered\\" from Morelli after he throws them into a dumpster, deals with her overly-protective mother, and suffers through numerous embarrassing situations that rarely feel too contrived.<br />A thoroughly enjoyable and quick read that'll keep you turning the pages. Evanovich writes the way I truly wish I could, and I look forward to the rest of the series.	2002-03-16
US	52997930	R1MHCNRI39G3N9	0385302118	937636699	There's No Such Place as Far Away	Books	4	19	19	N	N	A beautiful book for anyone who has ever missed someone	_There's no such place as far away_ is a short, simple book that can easily be read in 10 minutes or so; despite its simplicity, though, its message is beautiful and timeless, and is one that is often overlooked by us all.<br />H. Lee Shapiro's beautiful paintings provide the perfect frame for Bach's words - the images at first seem simple, but upon closer inspection their layers and detail become apparent. This little book is a wonderful gift for anyone who is far away, to remind them that you think of them, and are always with them.	2002-03-14
US	52997930	R3G4GYDDTZWUEZ	0807013404	199458607	Discovering Kwan Yin, Buddhist Goddess of Compassion	Books	3	23	32	N	N	Welllllll....I dunno.	This is an interesting little book in some respects, but I was a bit disappointed. I only recently &quot;discovered&quot; Kuan Yin, so the educational elements of the book were nice; however, I was a bit put-off at the beginning of the book, when Boucher refers only to <BR>Asian-decended or European-decended women being drawn to Kuan Yin - she completely leaves out any other ethnicity, which I found offensive.<br />Boucher does bring together several different religions and lifestyles into this book, which was nice, and relays the stories and experiences of quite a few women throughout. It's a quick read - it only took me a few hours one night - that concludes with a listing of various ways to get in touch with your own manifestation of Kuan Yin, as well as a good listing of &quot;for further info&quot; citations.<br />Still, despite its good points, I'm left feeling somewhat...wanting. While I'm sure Boucher is very passionate about Kuan Yin, that passion doesn't come through terribly well in her writing voice - it almost comes across as more ... how can I phrase this without offending anyone? Not easy. There is a fine line between a child-like wonder (which I view as A Good Thing) and an incredibly mindless acceptance of anything. Boucher seems to teeter precariously on that line.<br />I also couldn't connect with her through her writing voice - usually, it's easy to get a good feel for an author through his or her voice and style, but Boucher seems to keep the reader at arms-length, which is (to me) rather off-putting. <br />I'm not sure. I really *wanted* to like this book, but I feel only luke-warm about it. Ah well, I'm off in search of others like it.	2002-03-11
US	52997930	R1SG0504F5HJO9	0805036296	540048170	Completely Queer: The Gay and Lesbian Encyclopedia	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Decent overview of important queer items, but...	This enormous tome is a fairly good basic reference for people who are unaware of many items within queer culture or queer history; however, if you're craving an in-depth look at any of the subjects contained therein, you'll need to find another book.<br />What this encyclopedia does is to very briefly cover a huge list of popular and obscure names, events, organizations, movements, et cetera that have been in some way important to queer culture/history/et cetera. There are many (black & white) photos, great quotes, and fascinating tidbits of trivia, and although I did not read it cover-to-cover, I received quite an education. <br />It's a standard encyclopedia format, which doesn't lend itself well to sitting down and reading through; however, it's great for randomly looking stuff up, flipping through, or specifically seeking something out.	2002-03-11
US	52997930	R13J93N6XDSCUT	0385334907	614305867	Out of My Mind: The Discovery of Saunders-Vixen	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Short & Sweet, and it's still Richard Bach	I'm very glad I read some of the reviews here on Amazon before I began reading this book; I hadn't known of Richard & Leslie's divorce, and I would have cast about for her in the story - sadly, she's not there. Alas. I suppose even good and perfect-seeming marriages sometimes end.<br />But this story itself is a tiny little treasure - I passionately love Richard Bach's writing voice, and his absolute love of flying, and those are here in this little book. He hasn't lost his sense of wonder, joy or amazement, despite potentially difficult and heart-rending personal trials - his emotions and his soul come shining through wonderfully.<br />Though it's only a very well-spaced-out 101 pages, _Out of My Mind_ still made my heart soar in the 45-odd minutes it took to read it. My mind thrilled thinking of such beautiful parallel universes as Saunders-Vixen's, and the story lifted my soul.<br />Perhaps it's not for everyone, as some of the reviews here sound very disappointed; so, you may want to keep your expectations low. For me, though, it was exactly what I was looking for right now, in this particular moment...	2002-03-11
US	52997930	R3OI1X0VYDXDNE	0894806173	848606823	Wicked Italian for the Traveler (Wicked Series) (English and Italian Edition)	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Amusing, yet not terribly useful	This tiny little phrasebook is a funny read, but its practical applications are, um, limited, unless you really want to say things like \\"I'd like some pasta of the slut.\\"  For folks who've been to Italy, I'd imagine it's even more amusing than it is for us who haven't been over the pond.<br />There are a few useful items within, such as the names of important medicines and whatnot, but overall, this is just a book for fun. If you're really looking to pick up A Real Phrasebook, be sure to grab something else besides this one, and perhaps keep this one in your pocket (it's *really* tiny!) for when you feel like freaking out your cab driver or some such.	2002-03-09
US	52997930	R1G92N07L0OSQA	044020562X	640002369	One	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Recalls some of the greatness of &quot;The Bridge Across Forever&quot;	I really love Richard Bach's _Bridge Across Forever_ - truly, it's one of my favorite books. _One_ reminds me quite a lot of _Bridge_, but lacks the awe-inspiring inspiration of that earlier work.<br />While _One_ is definitely an enjoyable read, and contains some wonderful passages and wisdom, it is often saccharine and somewhat preachy. Bach will occasionally phrase questionable ideas as absolute fact, which doesn't sit well with me, and, although I have a reasonable tolerance for &quot;hokey&quot; stuffs, Bach pegged the meter more than a few times in _One_.<br />While it is, without a doubt, thought-provoking and insightful, and shouldn't be dismissed out-of-hand, I feel that _Bridge_ is a thoroughly better novel. Still, an enjoyable read, and if you're a fan of Bach's work, you will assuredly like it.	2002-03-07
US	52997930	R34Y7G2XTLAT0C	0312876513	882430933	Shadow of the Hegemon (The Shadow Series)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Not up to Card's usual standards	I truly hate to rate any of the Ender series as low as 3 stars, but _Shadow of the Hegemon_ truly doesn't live up to such works as _Ender's Game_, _Speaker for the Dead_, and even _Ender's Shadow_. _Shadow of the Hegemon_ has elements of suspense within it, but is largely a not-too-cleverly-disguised platform for Card to preach his political beliefs, and to display his excellent grasp of political science. In many ways, it almost reads more like a reworked term paper than a science fiction novel.<br />After finishing _Ender Shadow_, I immediately picked up this next book in the series with my usual high hopes for Card's work; however, less than halfway through the book, I really didn't care how it all turned out, or what happened to many of the characters - and this is hugely unusual for me. I finished it for completion's sake, but frankly, I believe that anyone reading this series could probably skip this addition to the Ender series. <br />This is really a disappointment, much like _Children of the Mind_ was; it almost seems as if Card didn't quite have the material to create a full novel, but was under pressure to add another book to this well-selling series of boy-genius books. Still, I look forward to the next installment, and hope it returns to his complex story-weaving, and excellent character development.	2002-03-07
US	52997930	R2IBBLWJOT90TD	0805062971	311054036	Fight Club: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Brilliantly-wrought	With _Fight Club_, Palahniuk has given us a truly brilliant novel. His writing is edgy, but not abrasive, and the story is dark, but somehow not depressing. I read the book before seeing the movie, and didn't see the film for some time, as I was afraid it wouldn't do the book justice - I was pleasantly surprised, though, and really recommend the movie to anyone who enjoyed the novel (and vice-versa.)<br />On its face, the ideas in this story aren't hugely original - schizophrenia, underground fights, et cetera - but Palahniuk has woven everything into a finished product that is amazingly creative. I can honestly say that I didn't figure out who or how Tyler Durden was until very near the end of the book, and then I had to grin about how cleverly Palahniuk crafted this character. <br />There are portions of the book which are very funny, those which are seriously angry, and those which reach out and grab the reader by the short hairs due to their sheer realism. Then there are the really strange bits, such as the main character's addiction to fatal disease support groups - which gets only weirder as we meet Marla, who is *also* addicted to them; who'd have thought there were two such people in the world? (Answer, Chuck Palahniuk, of course.)<br />Yes indeedy, this novel has it all - explosions, fighting, soap-making, Ikea porn, mustard-collecting, and possibly the downfall of many major credit card corporations. A very entertaining, bizarrely-twisted world.	2002-03-07
US	52997930	RQAK8BVCA2Q82	0553099795	646292757	The Edge of Human (Blade Runner, Book 2)	Books	2	25	35	N	N	Awful. Just...awful.	I really enjoyed both \\"Blade Runner\\" the movie (it's in my top five favorites of all time,) and the PK Dick book the movie was based on, \\"Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep.\\" _BR 2_, however, is just unfiltered tripe.<br />This novel attempts to be a sequel to the movie, rather than the novel, and, let me say it again, it's done so in a truly awful manner. The (un)original bits that Jeter came up with are frequently interspersed with flashbacks to the movie in a really uninteresting manner, and the writing itself is clunky and amateurish. One example, and I swear I'm not making this up or embellishing it in any way:<br />\\"She ascended to the appointed place, at the appointed hour. Without effort, almost without will, thermal sensors had registered her presence within the small space, a disembodied voice had asked if she'd wanted to go up to the building's roof, far above the dense weave of structure and light that formed the static ocean of the city.\\"<br />[SPUTTER!]<br />Oh, and there are more equally bad paragraphs I could throw at you, but I won't foist those other atrocities off upon you - I don't dislike *anyone* that much.<br />If you, like me, thirst for ever more \\"Blade Runner\\" Stuff, my best advice is to stay right the heck away from this novel, and read some of the other (non-fiction) pieces that have been written about _DADOES_ and about the movie - you'll find it far more satisfying, and you'll be much less inclined to beat your head repeatedly against something hard and/or spikey to erase this travesty from your brain. <br />Oh, was I using my Outside Voice when I said that? Well, K.W. Jeter, I would apologize for such a scathing review of something you are in all likelihood very proud of; however, I don't recall anyone apologizing to me for the hours of my life I lost whilst reading this book, so I'm calling us even.	2002-03-07
US	52997930	R2GSKV4O7EBWVT	189272300X	396304867	Hot Off the Net	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Great collection of erotica	Full disclosure: I have a story published in this anthology, but receive no royalties or anything of that nature, and am not reviewing my own story - only those of others.<br />I think Russ Kick has done a great job selecting some of the best work from the internet, and has given some very talented authors their first publication. Writers such as Bronwen, Kurt Hoffman & cbratb. cbratb, in particular, writes astonishingly good erotica, and I truly hope to see her attain success with stories like \\"Cobweb Years - Aspects.\\" <br />Men and women alike will enjoy this book, which contains not only hetero sex, but male and female same-sex fantasies, as well as some fetishistic stuffs. While this isn't Absolutely the Best Anthology of Erotica I've Ever Read, it's sure to please anyone who picks it up. Genre afficionados will enjoy the new names, as well as the unique \\"online formats\\" of the prose and poetry. Very recommended.	2002-03-07
US	52997930	R1S9NTUGZ2M4CO	0812575717	106877023	Ender's Shadow (The Shadow Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A wonderful return to the time of _Ender's Game_	_Ender's Shadow_ takes us back to the off-world school so many of us loved reading about in the first novel of the Ender series, and focuses on a fascinating character there, Bean. Card largely glossed over Bean in that first book, but upon reflection, realized what an interesting character he could be.<br />We learn of Bean's difficult childhood, natural leadership skills, and overwhelming genius throughout the book, as Card guides us through suspenseful and brilliant-wrought sequences. Some of the passages may be unlikely, or at times bordering on the overdone, but overall, this is a very satisfying book, that teaches us a lot of what went on &quot;behind-the-scenes&quot; in _Ender's Game_. Those who loved _Game_ will likely also love this book, even if they haven't read the entire series. Similarly, it stands on its own as an entertaining novel, though having the backstory from _Game_ surely helps with some of the unspokens.<br />Highly-recommended.	2002-03-07
US	52997930	R252F0R1UE5EKL	0671648454	31184604	Women on Top	Books	4	9	13	N	N	A study that is both informative, and seductive	Nancy Friday has long written about women's sexuality, and here in _Women on Top_, she continues that tradition. Published in 1991, Friday discusses how the women's movement has affected the way women think and feel about sex, and goes into the relationship between how women think of themselves, and how they think about sex. <br />Drawing from many transcribed fantasies, written in each woman's own words, Friday breaks through cultural taboos unflinchingly, and offers a frank discussion. This book will please both academic and prurient interestt, and it may help readers feel more comfortable with their own sexuality and fantasies.	2002-03-07
US	52997930	R2BMYQW0Y365LR	0789416158	247500186	Motorcycle Owner's Manual	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Useful book for beginners learning to maintain their bikes	Hugo Wilson has put together the essentials for learning to maintain a UJM (Universal Japanese Motorcycle;) though many of his techniques apply to many or even most bikes, his examples are all Japanese models, such as Yamaha, Honda &amp; Suzuki.<br />This small book has many attractive, full-color photos, showing exactly the bits in question, and the tools used to fix them. There are also areas which explain the basics of how items like spring/damper suspension units work, which many people new to the inner workings of motorcycles will surely find interesting.<br />Wilson's text is easy-to-follow, and informative. The book may contain some information that well-acquainted riders don't know, but is, I believe, most useful for those who are relatively new to maintaining their bikes.	2002-03-07
US	52997930	R2FE1VHSBJOOI5	0811807622	654045564	The Body: Photographs of the Human Form	Books	5	12	12	N	N	An exceptional collection	William Ewing has assembled a truly remarkable collection of photographs in his book, _The Body_. In twelve sections, ranging from idols to eros, he offers expert narration to photographic works that are sometimes stunning, sometimes shocking. There are pieces within this book that are difficult to look at, because they depict something we have been socialized to try to ignore or overlook (such as those showing birth defects, much physical scarring, or disease,) but each plate has something to say if we look closely (even if it only says, simply, \\"Behold.\\")<br />There are deeply-moving photographs, such as one from Lee Miller, which depicts prisoners at Buchenwald standing next to a large pile of human bones in 1945, and there are also arousing photos, like the erotic pieces from the twenties. Honesty is a frequent theme; several photographers have totally candid, unashamed self-portraits here that could be seen by some as unflattering, but still, here they are - honest.<br />Truly a humbling book in many ways; the photographic genius represented here is simply amazing, and the absolute humanity of us all is completely laid bare, the trappings of civilization and manners stripped away. <br />Powerful, sometimes strange, and very enjoyable.	2002-03-07
US	52997930	R2EC7UGJ4JJA4C	0553573861	755271511	Zodiac	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Rabble-rousing, highly-entertaining "eco-thriller"	Oh, what's not to love about Neal Stephenson? This man is one of the most brilliant science fiction writers of our time, and he's done himself proud once more with _Zodiac_. Anyone who enjoys cutting wit and is passionate about protecting the environment will greatly enjoy this novel, which portrays the exploits of one Sangamon Taylor and his friends.<br />Taylor must face angry Satanists, the Mafia, the FBI, and various enraged corporate assassins and beaurocrats as he attempts to foil the plot of a mad-scientist genetic engineer, and try to find the sources of PCB contamination in Boston Harbor. <br />But wait, there's more! Not only is this a brilliantly-written novel, but it's also a quick primer on ecological issues as well, explaining in basic terms why certain contaminants are so deadly and evil, and how they affect living organisms.<br />I immensely enjoyed this book on a variety of levels, little tree-hugger and humor-addict that I am.	2002-03-07
US	52997930	R99DH9DYJ9A3L	044651862X	58848637	The Celestine Prophecy: An Adventure	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Some excellent insights, but not a "new bible"	_The Celestine Prophecy_ reads as a passable adventure/mystery novel, but its true strength lies in how we can use the \\"Insights\\" contained within it to better ourselves and others.<br />While a growing cult of fanatical followers might give the book a bad name, one shouldn't dismiss Redfield as simply another charlatan preying on the spiritual thirst so many people have in our times - in other words, don't throw the baby out with the bathwater. There's some very wise writing here, in amidst other...not-so-wise bits. However, when I read certain parts of this novel, they resonated very deeply. <br />I have carried with me the ideas and insights that felt like truth in the years since I read this book, and they are still a part of me today. Not all of the book is full of great revelations, and some of it is frankly eye-rollingly awful. You may be wondering, with the review I've written here, why I gave _The Celestine Prophecies_ 4 stars; overall, I believe it's a book that *could* change many peoples' lives for the better, perhaps turning them from a more selfish, cold perspective to an altruistic outlook.<br />It's definitely not a book For Everyone, but I do recommend it for those who believe there's more to life than what's right in front of our eyes.	2002-03-07
US	52997930	R2223HWF8JR1QT	0875420281	42516745	Animal-Speak: The Spiritual & Magical Powers of Creatures Great & Small	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Interesting guide for insight, ritual, &amp; reference	_Animal-Speak_ contains a variety of useful resources for anyone interested in totem/spirit animals, and how to get more in touch with the various animal energies within oneself. There are chapters on &quot;awakening to your spirit totems,&quot; &quot;the mystery and magic of predator &amp; prey&quot; relations, &quot;reading signs and omens in nature,&quot; and numerous other subjects, seventeen in all.<br />I find the most useful part of the book to be the &quot;dictionaries&quot; of the various totems - Andrews has separate sections for reptiles, birds, and mammals, and each animal has from several paragraphs to several pages of information about what that spirit animals various meanings are. Generally, I find his descriptions interesting, though at times, he seems to think he's being terribly insightful when it seems more like he's grasping at straws, or pointing out the obvious. <br />This book will likely help anyone interested in learning more about animal totems. I recommend it, though advise readers to take some of it with a grain of salt - when working with these kinds of books, I believe it's very important to use several resources. This helps prevent carrying one author's biases into one's own belief system.	2002-03-07
US	52997930	R2I1QR3R571JTD	0062506552	457642513	The Shaman's Body: A New Shamanism for Transforming Health, Relationships, and the Community	Books	5	51	51	N	N	A powerful book, even for non-shamanic readers	The sub-title, which contains the phrase &quot;new shamanism&quot; may throw off many readers, but Mindell is definitely not another &quot;shake'n'bake shaman teacher;&quot; _The Shaman's Body_ is an insightful, no-nonsense book which can teach nearly everyone something new about themselves. At the risk of sounding cliche, I'll also say that Mindell brings the mystical into everyday life. His training has been through personal experience with African, Native American, Australian aboriginal, and Hindu teachers, which rounds out his perspective nicely.<br />Unlike many other authors writing on the subject of shamanism, Mindell doesn't feel like he's commercializing this spirituality - rather, he's simply demystifying it, and bringing it down to a more practical level with the really great exercises he includes. The exercises are, perhaps, the most valuable part of the book, because they allow the reader to take the book's lessons and immediately apply them to his or her own life. The exercises are at once simple and profound, and easily done simply by closing one's eyes and following the easy directions. I found that they lead to powerful insights about myself, body and spirit, and many of them remain in my conscious mind, even though it has been quite awhile since I've performed them.<br />Mindell also talks about perhaps the most important aspect of shamanism, and that is helping others; after helping you teach yourself *about* yourself, he then beings teaching you how to assist others; &quot;After you have learned to hunt and think about yourself, you study your behavior and dreams and begin to comprehend others. The next step is to leave the banks of the river fromwhich you have been observing and get into the stream.&quot;<br />Always, Mindell insists upon compassion, both for reader, and for others. He does not try to force anything upon the reader, and is only making offerings, suggestions. If an exercise does not feel &quot;right&quot; for some reason, he reminds the reader that it is of course ok not to perform it.<br />Unlike some other published authors who write about shamanism, I feel Mindell really has his heart in the right place, and has a lot to offer anyone seeking insight into themselves or the world in general.nds the reader that it is of course ok not to perform it.<br />Unlike some other published authors who write about shamanism, I feel Mindell really has his heart in the right place, and has a lot to offer anyone seeking insight into themselves or the world in general.	2002-03-07
US	52997930	R1UYS62VPY1ERE	0425184129	857420607	Big Trouble Movie Tie-In	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Absolutely hysterical, yet lacking	I really love Dave Barry's humor, and was somewhat disappointed to realize that he's not quite ready for the fictional novel genre. Though _Big Trouble_ is laugh-out-loud-tears-streamingly funny in many places, the plot is relatively weak and bumpy.<br />Still, readers who enjoy Barry's style will likely enjoy this book, which is a quick and light read, and may even roll themselves out of bed from laughing so hard. There were times, when I tried to read a passage aloud to my boyfriend, when I was totally unable to speak from laughter, and had to hand it over to him to read for himself. There are some seriously inspired moments of comedy here that wouldn't fit into his usual essay format, simply because he wouldn't have the character development to capitalize on the humor.<br />I really hope to see more novels from Barry, perhaps after he polishes his technique just a bit. Reading a future book that was this funny, but smoother in technique, would truly be a pleasure.	2002-03-07
US	52997930	R1B95DJA2MF6XM	0525945253	40670064	The Kid: What Happened After My Boyfriend and I Decided to Go Get Pregnant	Books	3	19	26	N	N	The trials of adoption, with humor & triumph	I often enjoy Dan Savage, though I am by no means a rabid fan. I picked up _The Kid_ on a recommendation from a friend, and read through it fairly quickly. The book is a true story recounting the trials of Dan and his partner trying to adopt a child. As if the adoption process weren't rife with terrors for straight folks, Dan candidly discusses the additional hurtles he and his partner faced as gay men. As if that weren't difficult enough, the birth mother is a tough street kid with issues of her own, including alcohol and drug use, and even shows Dan and Terry where to buy drugs in her gutter-punk hang-outs.<br />Savage does a good job of portraying the couple's anxiety as the birth looms closer and closer, with a good mixture of humor and frankness (and sometimes both at once.)  Overall, it's a satisfying and entertaining story that's well-told.	2002-03-07
US	52997930	R205M70L3A9SAG	0440108268	374827742	The Bridge Across Forever: A Lovestory	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Rich, warm, and compelling	Richard Bach may be one of those authors which one either loves dearly, or loathes unconditionally; he can occasionally come across as overly-hokey and melodramatic, but his stories are well-crafted and deeply personal. <br />_The Bridge Across Forever_ may be the best book he's written yet, and is an excellent way to expose oneself to his style of writing; it was the first book of his which I read, and it caused me to run right out and snatch up all the others I could find. I haven't yet found one that surpasses this one, but almost all of them contain wonderful gems and insights.<br />_Bridge_ is a rich, warm story about slightly metaphysical connections in life, through time, space, and personal growth. As he writes of his future wife, Leslie, the absolute love he feels for her is crystal-clear, and may at times bring tears to the reader's eyes. His love of flying is beautifully-portrayed as well, and he does a wonderful job of introducing the reader to the absolute joy and freedom of being airborne. In fact, Bach's descriptions of nearly everything are alive and vibrant, putting the reader Right There in that moment with him.<br />It's easy to recognize Truth when we see it - this book is full of truths that we perhaps always knew, but didn't quite *know* that we knew - it's that kind of book. I really recommend this to anyone who doesn't absolutely detest probing books with a real soul.	2002-03-07
US	52997930	R2VKEZEF1GZQZN	0395964644	449966473	Birds of North America (Kaufman Focus Guides)	Books	3	23	25	N	N	Very nice, for a photo guide	Let me tell you my bias up-front - I generally prefer bird guides which contain illustrations rather than photographs; I have found that poor lighting, bad angles and subjects not representative of their species tend to make their way into photo guides, thereby defeating the purpose. That said, I am very impressed with the quality of images in the Kaufman guide, likely because they're not unretouched. Kaufman uses digital editing to touch up the photographs so that each one is more representative of each species, and so that the quality of lighting is excellent.<br />It is of a size small enough to be easily carried into the field, unlike my favorite book, the Sibley guide, and the different page background colors are convenient for flipping quickly to the right section. There are short sections in the front of the book on &quot;how to bird,&quot; &quot;where to bird,&quot; and &quot;what to look for,&quot; along with a few other blurbs, but all of this covers only nine pages total. Further, the text accompanying each bird is very short, one small paragraph.<br />Still, it's readily apparent that a *lot* of work went into this guide, and I'm really impressed with it. While I personally believe that it's not something a novice birder would likely find really useful, like the National Geographic Society's book, intermediate and advanced birders will likely find it easy to use for quick reference about a field marking or species differentiation. Conveniently, he covers all of the birds of North America, thereby obviating the need to purchase one book for the East, one for the West, and so forth.<br />My best advice is to get your hands on a copy of this book before purchasing it if you're not certain you'll like it - birding guides can be a highly-personal thing, and you may find that this review is just totally buggered! I'm still glad I own this book, and occasionally take it out into the field instead of my preferred NGS, just for the sake of variety.	2002-03-07
US	52997930	R2DKTDBLHQCLNF	1565924266	864318233	Learning the vi Editor (Nutshell Handbooks)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Another great reference from O'Reilly	O'Reilly &amp; Associates, well-known for quality computer references, have once again done a superb job with this manual for vi. This Unix text editor can often be intimidating for those who haven't been exposed to it, but once a bit of time is spent with vi, it becomes second-nature. This book greatly helps in that endeavor.<br />Using this book, in conjunction with making vi my default PINE editor (thereby forcing me to become fluent with it, lest my email use become rather slow and awkward,) provided a huge speed boost in learning the vi editor. Vi is very powerful, and is almost always included on every unmodified Unix install. These items, coupled with the fact that vi doesn't automatically insert line breaks (like pico does) make it one of the most-preferred text editors amongst Unix sys-admins.<br />Not only does _Learning the vi Editor_ cover the essentials, but moves beyond basic editing functions into more powerful features, such as global searches &amp; replacements, customizing the editor, &quot;moving around in a hurry,&quot; command combinations, and other advanced vi features. For even better results in using vi, pick up a copy of O'Reilly's _sed &amp; awk_, though it's not necessary for effective vi use.<br />_Learning the vi Editor_ is written in a friendly, casual voice, and Linda Lamb provides what your input and output will look like for most commands, interspersed with comments that put the reader at ease, such as &quot;Qute forboding, isn't it?&quot; followed by reasons not to be intimidated.<br />This book will help just about anyone conquer the mighty vi tool, and will help prove vi's superiority over any other Unix text editor. (Ahem - no offense to the emacs gurus out there.)	2002-03-07
US	52997930	R16L9GBZO76Z2T	0441003257	624269601	Good Omens	Books	5	21	24	N	N	Absolutely hysterical, wonderful plot	Most science fiction &amp; fantasy readers will kind of tilt their heads like confused puppies at a pairing such as Gaiman &amp; Pratchett - Gaiman is notoriously dark, and Pratchett equally notoriously light-hearted; however, these two have worked together to create an entirely brilliant piece of work.<br />As Clive Barker notes on the cover of this book, &quot;The Apocalypse has never been funnier;&quot; he's totally correct in that assessment. The basic plot is that the Antichrist has been misplaced, and the respective minions of heaven and hell actually find themselves liking people in general, and are somewhat reluctant to bring us all to our demise.<br />There are lines in this book that are so funny, I occasionally had difficulty breathing from laughing too hard; this duo's clever, twisted silliness is just right up my alley. Some of the passages are so wicked, so briliant, they'll leave the reader wiping tears of mirth. Being a fan of much British humor, there was a veritable plethora of chuckles in such references as Milton Keynes, England's highway system, and in the delightful idioms. The idea of heaven and hell being run by beaurocracy is amusing as well.<br />Devout Christian practioners may find this book to be sacreligious, if they are unable to take their religion lightly. Apart from those folks, I'd imagine that most people will really enjoy this book.	2002-03-07
US	52997930	R3M5N6HD7B9R9L	0786225955	92211220	Girl, Interrupted	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Very insightful look into herself &amp; her &quot;caretakers&quot;	If you enjoyed the movie based on _Girl, Interrupted_, you will likely enjoy the book even more, as it goes much deeper inside Kaysen's thoughts and feelings, and spends more time on each character in general. Kaysen does a fantastic job of describing how she felt during her stay at McLean Hospital; her prose is highly-descriptive, with an almost poetic feel to some of the passages.<br />For some reason, one bit replays itself in my head, even when I haven't read this book for some time: <br />&quot;Oh Valerie,&quot; I said, &quot;you promised --&quot; Then the Thorazine hit me. It was like a wall of water, strong but soft...My legs and feet felt like mattresses, they were so huge and dense. Valerie and Georgina felt like mattresses too, big soft mattresses pressing on either side of me. It was comforting.&quot;<br />As she explores the depths of her psyche, she often uses dark humor, which is a very effective tool. The tactics she and other patients used to manipulate the hospital staff are often brilliant, sometimes poignantly sad. Kaysen's unflinching description of the sociopathic Lisa feels dead-on; the reader simultaneously loves and hates her, and agonizes with Kaysen as her worship of Lisa leads to disappointment again and again.<br />I've read this book several times, and will read it again in the future - it's an often dark, often inspiring look at the mental hospitals of the sixties, and at the nature of the human mind. Kaysen spares us no detail when describing her own disorder and behavior, or the disorders and behaviors of others.<br />A very frank book, and an excellent read.	2002-03-07
US	52997930	R31ZNTT2N4DZQ4	1570627150	521942453	What Is Meditation?: Buddhism for Everyone	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Not a bad introduction	This was the first book I read on Buddhism, and while it covered the basics adequately, overall, I found it very lacking.<br />Nairn gives an overview of the essentials and differing schools of Buddhism, but I found little which I could bring into everyday life. Personally, I found that \\"The Complete Idiot's Guide to Understanding Buddhism\\" was a much, much better book. Don't let the \\"Idiot's Guide\\" title throw you off, as I almost did; it's a really comprehensive, well-flowing book.<br />Nairn's book feels more academic and a bit colder to me - if I wanted to write a term paper about Buddhism, I would get Nairn; however, if I wanted to begin living Buddhism, I would still get the \\"Idiot's Guide,\\" by Gary Gach.<br />The Nairn is a quick read (I read it in one bathtub sitting,) so if you're looking for something short to give you the basics, this may work for you - but, if you want to go on to better understand and practice Buddhism, you'll surely want to pick up a more involved and detailed book.	2002-03-06
US	52997930	R3LHAG89HMN2QR	1865083364	751351621	Creative Wisdom for Writers	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Helpful for writer's block, otherwise ho-hum	I picked this book up expecting it to be something different than it was - I hadn't realized it was only a book of quotations from famous writers. From the title, I expected more of a how-to book, perhaps with exercises - but that's my fault for not checking it out more thoroughly. <br />Once I got past the initial disappointment of the sort of book it was, I saw that it could indeed be useful; the layout is one quote per page, and on the opposite page is a nutshell version of what each quote means. For example, on pages 60 and 61: The nutshell version is \\"Writing and editing are separate tasks. Mix them at your peril,\\" and the quote opposite it is \\"The habit of compulsive, premature editing doesn't just make writing hard. It also makes writing dead.\\" ~ Peter Elbow. This format is useful, just in case one doesn't quite get the gist of the quote on one's own.<br />At the beginning of the book, there's a \\"how to use this book\\" blurb, which states that you can either open it at random to seek a little nudge, or read it cover to cover to see a pattern evolve. There is indeed a progression, but it involves only a few steps; Starting to Write, First Drafts are Supposed to be Messy, Take Risks, and Just Keep Writing. If a writer is experiencing writer's block, or is having a moment of self-doubt, then reading this book will surely be useful to bump him or her out of it. For the rest of the audience, though, it's more of a light read (taking less than an hour start to finish) with a few quotes that will likely stand out as \\"interesting,\\" \\"helpful,\\" or \\"memorable.\\"<br />So, if you're looking for a book that will help teach you How to Write, this very likely isn't it. It's more of a book to keep handy during the writing process to turn to for a word of wisdom now and then, if you're stuck. It's not a *bad* little book, it's just not a jaw-dropping WOW kind of read.	2002-03-04
US	52997930	RHP9I7GB76DOR	1884313140	965401049	Hotshoe	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A really entertaining read	Jerry Smith does a wonderful job of conveying the dirt track experience; I found myself grinning widely at his description of the main character's first dirt track, and at various other passages as well. The mystery plot is interesting, and kept me turning pages well after bedtime, oftentimes grinning or chuckling out loud at a particularly well-crafted passage. Smith's got an easy-going, laid-back sense of humor that waits quietly until the right moment, and then either speaks up softly for good chuckles, or bursts forth and brings the house down. I really enjoy Smith's writing voice - it suits him well, and I can sometimes catch a glimpse of his grinning face in the background of the pages. His writing is honest, straight-forward, no-BS, somtimes gritty real life [stuff], and that's partially why it works for me.<br />As an avid motorcyclist myself, I always enjoy reading about bikes, and it was great to have two of my favorite genres, murder mystery & motorcycle adventure, put together. Smith's characters are well-written, and have their own shortcomings (which of course endears them to us and makes them much more real.)I plan to pick up Smith's _Dead Man's Throttle_ soon, to continue enjoying his work, and really recommend this book to anyone who's thought \\"hey, this might be good/fun/interesting,\\" because it surely won't disappoint.	2002-03-02
US	52997930	R2VYUTQVN4ACG3	0684837226	982187138	Flaming Iguanas: An Illustrated All-Girl Road Novel Thing (Mad Dog Rodriguez Trilogy)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	You go, girls...	I'll tell you up front - I'm generally biased toward books about motorcycles, as an avid rider myself. But I have to say, _Flaming Iguanas_ is just outstanding. Some of it reads like free association straight from Lopez's brain, which I really got into, along with the wacky-but-usually-related-but-sometimes-not illustrations. The story is a winner, as our heroines trek around on their bikes, but it's the delving into Tomato's psyche that I enjoyed most. Well, that and the one-liners that made me laugh out loud. <br />Overall, just a phenomenal book, and I highly recommend it to anyone, even though people who don't know the exhilaration of riding on two wheels.	2002-03-01
US	52997930	RKJKVXNYPXZ8I	1884313094	85230207	Against the Wind: A Rider's Account of the Incredible Iron Butt Rally ("Incredible journeys" books)	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Nice anecdotes, pretty lousy writing	The charm of Ayres' book is definitely not his writing style; rather, it's the stories he includes from other Iron Butt Rally Riders, such as Eddie James, Ardys Kellerman, and others. Ayres is, without a doubt, one of the best endurance riders on the planet; however, in my modest opinion, it seems to me that his contribution to the book is pretty much \\"I did this, then I did that, and now here's a word from another rider,\\" and those words are invariably more interesting than his text. I would love to have someone like Fritz Lang or Adam Wolkoff write a book about their Ironbutt Experiences, for they would surely be a supremely entertaining read.<br />This book is much more entertaining if one knows the players involved; for someone outside the endurance riding community, it may be a fairly dull read. Ayres has written at least one other book, but my advice is this: Ron, keep your butt in the saddle and away from the word processor.	2002-03-01
US	52997930	R65PN8BUC628P	0944958389	279177137	10 Years on 2 Wheels: 77 Countries, 250,000 Miles	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Amazing journey, incredible photographs	Helge is one of those amazing people who can precisely capture a moment on film - whether it's a remarkable shot like that of Olga in a tiny canoe, or his own profile, snapped with one hand as he rides along in the desert, he puts us right there with him. He's a remarkable man, who spends a goodly amount of time leading groups of people on motorcycle tours all over the world. If we Seattle-ites are lucky, he'll then come back and put on a slide show presentation a local BMW shop.<br />_10 Years on 2 Wheels_ is the story of his incredible journey around the world on his bike. He suffered through truly horrid conditions; multiple feet of snow, scorching hot sun, abysmally wet days and nights...he's given new meaning to the term \\"gut it out.\\" This book takes you to all of the places he went, and shows many of the adverse conditions he went through. Viewing the photographs, and reading the accompanying texts, the reader is indeed present during Helge's travels. We see unspoken details of people's lives in countries we may never travel to ourselves, the splendor of some of the world's best scenery, and more.<br />I recommend this book highly to anyone who appreciates fine photography, travelogues, or motorcycles. You'll be shaking your head in amazement throughout the book.	2002-03-01
US	52997930	R35E15CTOXDIIP	0765342294	401439625	Ender's Game (The Ender Quintet)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A science fiction cornerstone	This book should be required reading for anyone who wishes to have a broad science fiction knowledge! _Ender's Game_, and all of the series that follow it (with the possible exception of _Children of the Mind_ and _Shadow of the Hegemon_) are outstanding.<br />_Ender's Game_ introduces us to Andrew Wiggin, boy genius, as he is inducted into a militaristic school whose students are hoping to protect Earth from the invasion of an alien species, the Buggers. We follow Andrew (or \\"Ender\\" as he's called in the book) through his training, his trials, and his inner thoughts as he progresses rapidly to the top of his class. Leading the various other children in war games comes fairly naturally to Ender, and soon his peers grow to respect him - with the exception, of course, of those who resent him for his brilliance.<br />Saying anything more would ruin the story, and it's too good a one to spoil it for anyone. Suffice it to say, this is a very satisfying first book in a fantastic series. Card scores again.	2002-03-01
US	52997930	R2UOT37EJ8Q6IG	0792274512	426421212	National Geographic Field Guide to the Birds of North America : Revised and Updated	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Great Field Guide	I've been birding for about 5 years, and this is the book I always have with me on birding expeditions - it's small enough to portable (though not small enough for a pocket,) and the illustrations are excellent in quality. Has very nice comparison pages, showing several similar-looking species, such as ducks, hawks, gulls, and warblers. The descriptions are generally very good, and contain useful distinguishing information.<br />Generally, I prefer drawings/paintings to actual photographs when using birding books - I've found that often times, the photographs in birding books are less than good examples of several species, especially when there are one or more variations. Also, with illustrations, the artist controls the lighting, the angle, et cetera. Since this book uses illustrations, so perhaps I'm biased toward it in that way.<br />I have about a dozen birding field guides, and the only one I like better than this one is the Sibley; however, the extremely large size of that book prevents me from taking it on any but short trips. The NGS book here is more than sufficient for most birders, I would imagine. Another plus is that it's all the birds of the continent, period; no need to buy an Eastern/Western edition when you travel to other areas of the country.<br />An excellent book, all around.	2002-03-01
US	52997930	R1Z0SQ8RU6TZZW	0671253212	547909597	Golem 100	Books	1	6	23	N	N	Put the book down, throw it away, get it out of your life.	That's it - throw it far from you, and back slowly away from it. Easy does it - you don't want to arouse its ire, for it could surely suck us all into the giant, gaping hole that is _Golem 100_.<br />Seldom have I ever tipped my head sideways in that confused puppy look more often than I did whilst reading this book - it is, and I'm positive it's supposed to be this way, full of non-sequitors and jump cuts which make absolutely no sense. Couple that with the bizarre drawings, and the completely nonsensical ending, and you've got a recipe for a migraine right there. There wasn't much of anything about this book that was entertaining - a few bits were intriguing, but it was not by any means \\"enjoyable.\\" I picked it up because I was curious about Bester's writing, and I stuck through it til the end, just in case there was some hugely clever way he wrapped it all up and made it sensical. Alas, none was there.<br />I don't believe there are words to describe this book fully - you'd have to have an all-senses lexicon to do the hideousness justice. Y'know, something that could pull in visual, auditory, and olfactory input, in addition to a paragraph or so of the book's text, all in one assaultive packet of data.<br />Very rarely do I ever think, \\"sweet mother, _there's_ time I won't ever get back\\" after reading a book, even a bad one. I'm of the opinion that everything I read enriches me, in one way or another. This one? No way. No enrichment here. I want my time back!!! I mean, I would rather poke myself in the eye with a sharp stick (repeatedly!) than have to read this horrible piece of trash again.<br />I keep it on-hand just to remind me of how awful it is, just in case (after a few more years pass) I ever think \\"Gee, maybe I should reread that again in case I missed something.\\" I tell you, I assuredly did miss something, because nothing could suck that hard, but you know what? I don't care! I never want to see the inside of that book again! In fact, I have stapled a photograph of myself pulling my hair out inside the cover, just in case I ever do pick it up.<br />So, to review: Run away! Put it down! Put it through the shredder! For the love of Mike, DON'T READ IT! Don't waste the time!! Honestly!!!!!!	2002-03-01
US	52997930	R1X4T2S1M3DWKG	0380729709	548490057	The Cage	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A pleasant surprise	I picked this book up out of a stack of freebies several years ago, and continually passed it over when browsing my bookshelves for a new read. Last night, I picked it up, reread the back cover, and gave it a shot. Less than four hours later, I finished the book with arched eyebrows, very pleasantly surprised by how good it was.<br />Schulman does an *excellent* job of placing the reader in the moment with her highly-descriptive writing. The amount of detail is perfect - never so much that the story drags while describing the setting, but almost always enough so that the reader can feel the depth of the cold, smell the polar bears, and hear the crunch of snow. <br />She also does a wonderful job of conveying the protagonist's thought processes and she undergoes radical changes in how she thinks of herself and the world through her challenges. This *may* be a book enjoyed more by women than by men - I don't mean to say that men won't understand it, rather that women (on the whole) might relate more intimately with how the main character thinks and feel.<br />I'll definitely pick up the other books by this author - I very much enjoyed her writing voice.	2002-02-28
US	52997930	RSV9NPH6FGQHJ	0028641701	495619271	The Complete Idiot's Guide to Understanding Buddhism	Books	5	67	69	N	N	An excellent overview for the beginner, or for a refresher	Initially, I had great skepticism - c'mon a \\"Complete Idiots\\" book to get me started down the Buddhist path? Really? It just seemed so...so...*American*. But, I had to start somewhere, and my good friend Ben recommended it to me, so I gave it a shot. Now, having finished the book, I realize I owe both my friend and Gary Gach an immense debt of gratitude - this book is really amazing.<br />One problem I (and many others) have had with other beginning Buddhism books is that the format isn't one that's easy to soak up; the flow isn't as logical as this one's, or not enough detail or context is given to drive points home to a more understandable place. Gach has done a phenomenal job of keeping things simple enough not to overwhelm a newcomer, yet goes into enough detail to keep things interesting and real. <br />Gach goes beyond teaching the basic belief system into giving examples of how to apply what we've learned in real life, and where else to look for more information. He offers dozens of anecdotes, many koans, a plethora of historical tales and data points, a glossary, and a multitude of other items. One small criticism I have of this book is that he very often doesn't cite his sources when giving statistics.<br />Throughout the book, Gach returns to important concepts, but not in a manner which I found to be condescending at all - it was merely helpful to be reminded of X, Y, and Z at certain points throughout the book, because they were important to the current subject. The author gives the reader a very solid foundation to build his or her beliefs upon, should the reader desire, including a rich and detailed historical background of Buddhism throughout the world.<br />I will be unreservedly suggesting this book to anyone who expresses an interest in this spiritual path.	2002-02-26
