US	52992798	R2L9G6C9E1Y3LJ	1566632749	116569805	The South Side: The Racial Transformation of an American Neighborhood (Glas, 21)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Neighborhood and Community	Louis Rosen grew up in the Pill Hill neighborhood on the South Side of Chicago.  In the 1960s Pill Hill and the surrounding area was a white Jewish and other ethnic neighborhood.  By the mid-1960s, some of the white Jewish families were moving out (usually \\"up\\" to bigger houses in the suburbs) and black lower-middle class families began moving in (as they too looked to move up from old neighborhoods).  The gradual change of the mid-1960s became a virtual stampede after the 1968 race riots, and even though Rosen's family did not leave until 1975, by mid-1969 the old, idyllic neighborhood of Rosen's youth was essentially gone.<br />Rosen has not written an historical or sociological study of why neighborhoods change, how unscrupulous real estate agents pray on white fears, or why integration did not take hold in this particular neighborhood.  Instead, he has given us an impressionistic, quasi-literary study of the experiences of children and adults, principally from the Jewish but also from the African-American community.  The most troubling aspect of the book is that all of the people interviewed by Rosen (his book is presented as a composite of their voices) seem to have been people of goodwill, trying to do the right thing, yet somehow at that time and place they were not able to address each other's fears and build an integrated community.  We get a few tantalizing hints as to reasons for this phenomenon -- fear and racism among some of the Jews (not spelled out in detail), divisions within the Jewish community that had nothing to do with the changing  racial composition of the community, a feeling on the part of African-American that it was not their place to ease fears or involve themselves with their white neighbors.  It would have been interesting to hear more from some of the Jews who left in early in the process, who felt pressured by real estate agents and who left in the middle of the night, instead of just from people who (at least initially) tried to stay.<br />Because Rosen was a member of a Jewish community that no longer exists, the overriding impression of book leaves is one of loss -- a golden childhood, a perfect community, lost forever, to which Rosen can never hope to return, even physically.  And yet, at the end of the book Rosen does return, and discovers that Pill Hill is still a neighborhood, just as important to its current residents, just as much home, as it ever was for Rosen and his neighbors.  It was not destroyed by the arrival of African-American homeowners and is still a beautiful, well-kept, comfortable haven on the South Side.<br />The format of \\"The South Side\\" is a quasi-play with narrator, which could make it an excellent tool for discussion groups, where individual members could play the \\"parts\\" in the play.  Although Rosen does not offer answers, he raises a lot of valuable questions and will make you think about the meaning of neighborhood, neighbors and community.  Well written, and a fast and easy read.	2003-04-19
US	52992798	RNQ4UL3G3LPU2	0609608444	517121775	The Devil in the White City:  Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America	Books	3	6	12	N	N	History As Trashy Romance	\\"The Devil In The White City\\" is to history what trashy romance novels are to literature.  It's certainly entertaining enough and engagingly written -- but don't think you're really getting history.  Erik Larson interweaves two stories:  that of Daniel Burnham and the 1893 World's Fair, and that of H.H. Holmes, a serial killer who claimed many victims in Chicago at the time of the Fair.  The Burnham/Fair story is probably accurate enough since it was a major public event and very well documented -- although even in this part of the story thoughts and feelings are sometimes reported that Larson could not have had access to.  But big chunks of the Holmes story are essentially made up.  For example, there is evidence in letters that Holmes took Minnie and Anna Williams to the Fair -- but the route they took through the Fair and the postulated first stop at the Stockyards are completely speculative.  To his credit, Larson makes this fairly clear in his endnotes, but you wouldn't know it from the text.  Larson believes his reconstruction is accurate (psychologically at least) and it may well be -- but the point is that we'll never know.  In both stories, there is a lot of imagination at work, filling in gaps and details.  This certainly makes for a more dramatic telling, but a lot of it is pure fiction.<br />Larson never really draws any connection between his two stories -- they happened at the same time, but what are we to make of that?  Early on, Larson suggests that the 1890s were a period of change, when moral boundaries were shifting.  Assuming that this made it easier for Holmes to find the young women living on their own who were his primary victims (because clearly moral boundaries never shifted so far as to accommodate Holmes' activities themselves), what exactly does this have to do with the World's Fair?  This lack of connection makes the transitions between the two stories abrupt and jarring -- each interrupts the flow of the other, and I found I had to keepgoing back to figure out where I was.  In the best trashy romance tradition, many of the sections end with foreshadowing -- \\"if only she had known then what she learned later on.\\"  This is particularly tiresome when you already know what's going to happen.<br />Overall, a fast read and entertaining, but I wish I'd spent my time on something else.	2003-03-09
US	52992798	R1SJOPWWH1XHTU	0814751741	889538230	Nothing but the Truth: Why Trial Lawyers Don't, Can't, and Shouldn't Have to Tell the Whole Truth (Critical America)	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Entertaining But Not Very Deep	Steven Lubet seeks to defend the art of \\"storytelling\\" at trial against the charge that it inevitably leads lawyers to spin creative fictions designed to obscure the truth and hoodwink gullible juries into favoring their clients.  At least, that's what Lubet says he's doing (p. 2), and indeed, the first chapter does illustrate how lawyers can legitimately and honestly help their clients frame stories and select facts so that their testimony falls within the appropriate legal framework.  The really interesting point in this first story (which Lubet does not dwell on) is that both sides can essentially agree on all of the \\"hard\\" facts, but have completely different stories about what those facts mean.  This, to me, could be the springboard to a really fascinating discussion about what it means to tell the truth, but Lubet quickly passes on to his next story.<br />What this book really amounts to is a retelling of a number of interesting trials or other legal proceedings (the Mortara case, the real trials of John Brown, Wyatt Earp and Sheila McGough, the literary trial of Tom in \\"To Kill a Mockingbird,\\" and Lubet's imagined trial of the man who shot Liberty Valance).  The stories themselves are entertaining; Lubet does a particularly good job of placing the Brown and Earp trials in their historical context.  His observations about strategy and storytelling in the Earp trial, and his defense of Atticus Finch's obligation to defend Tom even if Tom was guilty are pointed and entirely successful.  On the other hand, in a book about telling the truth, Lubet completely fails to notice (much less to discuss) the larger implications for \\"the truth\\" of some of the other values that we have built into our criminal trials -- the presumption of innocence, the privilege against self-incrimination and the prosecution's burden of proof beyond a reasonable doubt.<br />\\"Nothing But The Truth\\" is a fast and entertaining read for lawyers and non-lawyers, and will give non-lawyers some insight into how trial lawyers put their cases together.  Trial lawyers can read it for the war stories, but won't get much more out of it.	2003-03-02
US	52992798	R1L6451RUM8M86	0060501367	295167824	The Commissariat of Enlightenment: A Novel	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Lies More True Than Truth	In the West, the Enlightenment replaced supernatural religious explanations of the world with faith in human reason and science.  In the Soviet Union, the Commissariat of Enlightenment replaced Orthodox religion and its icons with faith in the objective historical necessity of socialism and the new icon of Lenin.  In the West, our science has ultimately taught us that to measure a thing is to change it; in Soviet propaganda, the film camera's lights were used to distort reality, giving the appearance of truth to lies created in the name of an allegedly greater truth.  As Ken Kalfus' protagonist observes, the belief in invariant facts is itself a kind of superstition, giving insufficient credit to man's ability to remake both the past and the present.<br />In the guise of a novel set in the waning days of the Russian Empire and the early days of the Soviet Union, Ken Kalfus has given us a brilliant meditation on the power of images and words, the nature of truth, and the human need for myth and immortality.   The book itself illustrates some of his themes -- the characters and scenes are drawn so vividly and persuasively that if you were to ask me a year from now how Lenin died or how he came to be embalmed, I would probably tell you the (inaccurate -- or is it?) story that Kalfus tells.  The development of Gribshin/Astapov from a naive and emotionally vulnerable young man into a propagandist so entranced by images that he has lost almost all ability for direct human connection is subtle and seen from the outside, as though observed by (what else?) a camera.  This is superb fiction, thought-provoking and entertaining at the same time.  Highly recommended.	2003-02-23
US	52992798	R1ZDZIM75PBAAM	0300096860	958790976	One World: The Ethics of Globalization	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Thought-Provoking and Surprisingly Moderate	Peter Singer is arguably the most influential -- almost certainly the most controversial -- philosopher alive today.  From the way he is treated in the press, one might expect this book to be nothing but a foaming-at-the-mouth radical manifesto, but instead I found a cogent, carefully argued inquiry into moral issues raised by globalization.  Singer begins, as any good philosopher does, from premises that he thinks he can get most people to agree on:  that no moral principle in itself justifies giving more of a limited resource to one person than to another; that we ought to treat others as we wish to be treated ourselves; that we have an obligation to assist those who, through no fault of their own, find themselves in the direst poverty.  From these premises, he carefully leads the reader to thoughtful conclusions, considering and responding to potential objections and modifying his own initial conclusions to provide a practical prescription for how one ought to act (the school of philosophy to which Singer belongs is known as \\"practical ethics\\").<br />In this brief book, Singer tackles 4 issues raised by globalization:  how to deal with greenhouse gas emissions and global warming; whether the WTO and free trade make the world a better place or simply enrich the rich at the expense of the poor while undermining all other human values; when military intervention is justified to prevent or stop genocide or other crimes against humanity; and the scope of the Western world's obligations to the poor and less developed portions of the world.  Singer has clearly done his homework, providing a short but extremely useful overview of each problem, often illustrated with telling facts (for example, annual US domestic spending on alcohol is $34 billion, compared to $14 billion spent annually by the US on foreign development aid).<br />Singer's conclusions are surprisingly moderate -- for example, while condemning the US for refusing to sign the Kyoto Treaty, he recognizes thatthe Treaty itself would be more effective if *all* nations (not just the developed ones) had quotas (since the quotas of less developed nations would be greater than their output, leading to a stronger market for emissions trading).  While concluding that the WTO is undemocratic and places free trade above all other values, he acknowledges that the charge that the poor are worse off under globalization is at least not proven.  He takes a stand against moral relativism and concludes that insisting on universal respect for human rights is not a kind of cultural imperialism.  At the same time, he recognizes that a legal justification for intervention (atrocities are being committed) is not the same as a moral justification (will intervention produce the best result, all things considered?).  Perhaps most interesting, an issue that weaves its way through the entire book is the changing nature of state sovereignty and what it means for a government to be legitimate.  I kept wishing that Singer would devote more space to this issue -- perhaps someday he will write a separate book on it (although it may be too theoretical for his practical nature).<br />\\"One World\\" is an exceptionally well-written and clearly argued book.  You don't have to be a philosopher yourself to follow Singer; he uses the kind of moral reasoning we all have experience with and he makes his points in plain English.  I can't say that I agree with all of his arguments, but he has given me a lot to think about, and I know that I will refer to this book again.	2003-02-23
US	52992798	R2B21U2YPBO5IF	0679760237	279143118	In Pharaoh's Army: Memories of the Lost War	Books	5	82	82	N	N	An Honorable Man	\\"In Pharaoh's Army\\" is not your average war memoir, nor even your average Vietnam war memoir.  Wolff joined the army because he wanted to be a man of honor and he trusted the government to use its soldiers well.  Instead, he finds that while he is a better soldier than some, he is not the \\"wily, nerveless killer\\" that the Army wants him to be.  He gets through Officer Candidate School (at the bottom of his class) only because he has the talent to produce the satirical revue for graduation night.  New assignments repeatedly have little or nothing to do with his immediate prior training.  When Wolff finally gets to Vietnam, he is sent to act as the American advisor to a Vietnamese unit, but with very little guidance as to what he is to advise them about.  Tet is the only pitched battle Wolff describes, but the day-to-day challenges of mines, snipers, and being a white man in an Asian world make getting to the end of each day a triumph.  Each day and every trip are endless until they are over.  Survival has more to do with luck than with being a good soldier.  Wolff's title is apt:  \\"Here were pharaoh's chariots engulfed; his horsemen confused; and all his magnificence dismayed.\\"<br />Wolff finds his honor in honesty.  From the opening epigraph to the final paragraph, Wolff attempts to set it all down honestly, the lost war that is neither glorious nor action-packed.  His prose is spare, straight to the point and yet poetic.  The irony, when it comes, is devastating (and aimed at himself, as often as at others).  Many of the stories would lend themselves to a more comic telling, but while the book is often humorous, Wolff always subtly reminds us that this is a deadly serious matter.  The book is superbly structured, the selection and ordering of the stories designed to reinforce Wolff's points.  Wolff gives us a real sense of the uncertainty and terror that pervaded every day, that led men to do things they can no longer imagine or explain.  \\"How do you tell such a terrible story?  Maybe such a story shouldn't be told at all.  Yet finally it will be told.\\"  I'm glad Wolff did the telling.  Highly recommended.	2003-02-06
US	52992798	R2G6O3AL4WWL3G	093545750X	944037429	Exploring Judaism: A Reconstructionist Approach	Books	4	29	29	N	N	Guide to Reconstructionist Belief and Practice	The Reconstructionist movement is both the newest and the smallest of the modern American Jewish movements, but its influence has been tremendous.  Mordecai Kaplan, its founder, conceived of Judaism as an evolving religious civilization (more than simply a religion) and of God as a process or transcendant power (not a supernatural being).  These ideas led him to a conception of Judaism that respects and honors the past while transforming it to provide a modern expression of traditional Jewish values.  Although Kaplan ended up founding a new movement, he spent most of his life (until his retirement at age 82) teaching and writing at the Conservative movement's Jewish Theological Seminary, and it is apparent from Neil Gillman's book \\"Conservative Judaism:  The New Century\\" and from the Conservative Statement of Principles \\"Emet ve-Emunah\\" (which expressly allows for Kaplan's conception of God) that Kaplan had a huge impact on the intellectual leaders of the Conservative movement.  Reform's recent trend toward more traditional practice is surely also at least partly a recognition that Kaplan was right to emphasize continuity with the past even while acknowledging the necessity of modernization.<br />In \\"Exploring Judaism,\\" Rabbis Alpert and Staub provide a brief introduction to Reconstructionist belief and practice.  The emphasis in the first six chapters is on the fundamental beliefs that define the movement -- the conception of Judaism as an evolving religious civilization, the nature of God, the role of traditional practice and halakha, the interaction of practicing Jews with an open society, and the place of Zionism.  The ideas in these chapters are set out clearly and concisely and give the reader a good idea of what Reconstructionism is about.  These chapters are not meant to be theology or a rigorous exposition of Reconstructionist ideas; still, a little more detail on some of the more obvious difficulties (an asserted \\"solution\\" to the problem of theogony, which is not a solution at all) and tensions within the movement (did Kaplan go too far or not far enough in changing the liturgy, the language of prayer, the conception of \\"chosenness\\") would have been helpful.  As it stands, this part of the book seems to be pitched toward bright high school students or adults who have never thought about theological issues except in the most basic, \\"self help\\" terms.<br />The second half of \\"Exploring Judaism\\" is devoted to Reconstructionist practice -- study, prayer, ritual, social action, the development of inclusive communities, and the \\"structure\\" of the movement itself.  These chapters do an excellent job of demonstrating how Judaism can be reconstructed into a vital center of one's life and community.  Here the authors succeed in being inspirational without being preachy.<br />\\"Exploring Judaism\\" seems to have been written for people who were raised in another Jewish movement and who have either dropped out or become disenchanted.  A reasonable degree of familiarity with traditional Jewish practice and belief is assumed throughout.  If you are lacking that familiarity, you may be somewhat lost, particularly in the later chapters.  Recommended to anyone seeking to learn more about this path to reconnecting with Judaism.	2003-02-04
US	52992798	R1TE7INWAYEMCA	1588340368	721734292	An Odyssey in Print: Adventures in the Smithsonian Libraries	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Journey Through the Smithsonian Libraries	&quot;An Odyssey in Print&quot; is primarily the catalogue of an on-going (through May 2003) exhibition at the Smithsonian Libraries.  The exhibition highlights some of the rarest, most beautiful and most interesting works in the Libraries' collections, loosely organized around the theme of &quot;journeys&quot; -- real, imagined and metaphorical.  Saying the organization is &quot;loose&quot; is being generous -- in fact, the organization is almost haphazard (books that reflect real journeys show up in the section on journeys over land, but also in the section on journeys of the mind) and seems to have been imposed after-the-fact on books that were selected primarily for their historical or aesthetic importance (for example, the trade literature in the final pages probably has historical importance, but it's a tight squeeze to force it into the &quot;journeys&quot; theme).  Nevertheless, the books selected are invariably interesting and many are beautiful -- if you are a lover of books or of natural history, you will enjoy browsing through the catalogue, without regard to the somewhat sloppy curating.  A brief paragraph summarizing the background and significance of each book in the catalogue is included along with very nice reproductions of one or more of the book's illustrations.<br />What I found most intriguing were the introductory essays.  Michael Dirda provides an eloquent paean to the joys of reading and the mystique of libraries, where everything is possible.  Mary Augusta Thomas, the exhibition curator, covers the history of the Smithsonian Libraries and their collections.  Most interesting to me was the essay by Storrs Olson, Senior Curator of the Division of Birds, National Museum of Natural History, who discusses the importance of the Libraries and their historical collections to the on-going work of science.  It's easy to look at the books exhibited in this volume and see them only as objects, as magnificent illustrations of the book arts or historicalcuriosities, but Olson makes it clear that these books have continuing life and utility for those who care for them.  Recommended for anyone interested in the the book arts, the history of the book or the history of science.	2003-02-02
US	52992798	R3GSJ1AQONSK7W	0195150880	40612399	The Paradox of American Power: Why the World's Only Superpower Can't Go It Alone	Books	2	12	15	N	N	No One Likes A Bully	Since the fall of communism, it has been a truism that the US is the world's only superpower.  But what exactly does that mean anymore?  We have the world's strongest military, but do not (and should not) use it without the backing of the American people and the international community.  We have the world's largest and strongest economy, but it is strikingly dependent on the stability of international markets (which in turn are dependent on the stability of local economies around the world).  We cannot defend our economic interests (for example, the Middle Eastern oil supplies necessary to our economy) without friendly countries who allow us to base military forces there.  Terrorism, drugs, global warming, international financial markets and development issues all present problems to which we cannot dictate solutions.  Instead, we must participate in some kind of global cooperative effort that seeks the good of all.  At the same time, we cannot allow a single self-interested country to impede actions we view as essential to our security, and the American polity will not tolerate \\"undue\\" intrusions on US sovereignty.  In this world, how should the US, with all of its military, economic and even (sometimes) moral force, go about securing peace, prosperity and human rights for the greatest number of people?<br />I was hoping that Joseph Nye, Dean of the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, would bring some real insight to these questions about how the US should determine and conduct its foreign policy.  Unfortunately, in this short volume he provides mostly platitudes, almost no analysis, and little or nothing in the way of answers.  Nye's analysis draws on several \\"insights.\\"  First, no one likes a bully.  The US must therefore guard and enhance its \\"soft power\\" to set agendas and persuade others.  Alas, no advice is offered as to how we do this.  Nor does Nye explore in any concrete way how an emphasis on preserving our soft power would affect our policy choices.Second, other nations and groups have soft power too.  I'm not sure that Nye actually makes any use of this insight, although one would think that it might play a role in addressing some of the concerns about democratic process in international institutions.  Third, there are problems we can't solve ourselves.  If we need others to help us with some of our problems, we have to expect that they will want us to help them with some of their problems in return.<br />Nye ends up by giving us a strategy to promote public goods and listing factors that should be considered in deciding whether to undertake a humanitarian intervention or whether to use unilateral or multilateral tactics.  These provide useful checklists, but they are not really developed enough to give particularly useful guidance for developing policy.<br />Overall, a disappointment.  I am giving it two stars only because I agree with most of what Nye has to say.  If you already believe a multilateral approach to a foreign policy focused on public goods is necessary, you will probably find few new insights here.  If you think the US can go it alone, I doubt that you will be persuaded otherwise by this book.	2003-01-20
US	52992798	RZTDJCIDFW20W	156792123X	698784940	The Library of Babel	Books	5	26	28	N	N	Books Omnipotent, Illustrated and Magical	\\"The Library of Babel\\" is one of Borges' finest short fictions -- a meditation on the possible, the infinite, the nature of hope and the creation of meaning.  The Library contains all possible books, all possible combinations of the 25 orthographic symbols in all possible languages, and therefore everything man is capable of knowing and expressing -- but it appears to have no order, no organization.  It contains the true catalogue of the Library, as well as innumerable false catalogues, books proving the falsity of the false catalogue, and books proving the falsity of the true catalogue.  Yet from chaos arises meaning:  \\"There is no combination of characters one can make . . . that the divine Library has not foreseen and that in one or more of its secret tongues does not hide a terrible significance.  There is no syllable one can speak that is not filled with tenderness and terror, that is not, in one of those languages, the mighty name of a god.\\" (35)<br />This volume is intended for the lover of fine books and contains \\"only\\" this single, quite short, fantasy by Borges, beautifully illustrated with duotone etchings by Erik Desmazieres.  The etchings are not particularly consistent with Borges' description of the Library, although they are plainly inspired by it.  Although Desmazieres' Library appears to be physically bounded in a way that Borges' Library is not (there is no \\"outside\\" for Borges), the etchings present a magisterial universe that by the overwhelming size and fine detail of its rooms evokes a sense of the infinite in the same way that High Gothic cathedrals function.  My only real quarrel with Desmazieres is that his Library is too populated.  He captures the sense of infinite space, but misses the fundamental loneliness of the librarian.<br />Highly recommended to anyone interested in fine printing or as an addition to an existing collection of Borges' fiction.  If you are new to Borges, I would recommend buying a more substantial collection of hiswork first, then buying this volume as a beautifully realized vision of one aspect of his universe.	2003-01-01
US	52992798	R1783O7OMPKEEL	0300062915	561353343	The Censored War: American Visual Experience During World War Two	Books	4	18	19	N	N	The Visual Story of the Good War	As we prepare for the possibility of another war with Iraq, I keep reading about how the military manipulated news coverage of the Gulf War (mostly by limiting access to it).  Gulf War restrictions on the press are almost always portrayed as the military's (over)reaction to one of the \\"lessons\\" it learned from Vietnam (\\"The Uncensored War,\\" as the title of a book by Daniel Hallin puts it).  But in fact, as George Roeder shows in \\"The Censored War,\\" government (although not necessarily military) control of the visual imagery of war is nothing new.  Although \\"The Censored War\\" is a bit of a misnomer (the book is more about the actual portrayal of WWII and government attempts to influence its imagery than it is about government denial of access to certain images), Roeder succeeds in demonstrating a thorough-going effort by the government during WWII to control how the war was presented and to emphasize imagery that suited its propaganda purposes.<br />\\"The Censored War\\" is divided into four chapters, each followed by a \\"visual essay\\" (a collection of photos, ads and other visual material, with captions discussing how the images relate to the themes explored in the text).  Only the first chapter is really devoted to subjects and images that were \\"censored\\" in the sense that the military withheld them from publication (although that subject arises again in some of the other chapters).  The remainder of the book is (largely) devoted to the imagery that *was* made available and what it communicated about American society, the home front, and the motivations behind the war effort.  The material I found most interesting concerned the portrayal of race, gender and class differences (or the alleged lack of same) during WWII (with the government trying to say \\"we're all in this together\\" to African-Americans, women and the working class without offending the country's racists, men and business/patrician class).<br />In the concluding chapters, Roeder draws attention to the waythat WWII polarized our vision, portraying American and Allied troops, civilians, cultures and goals as uniformly good and the Axis' forces as uniformly evil.  I think he over-emphasizes the formative role of WWII propaganda in our tendency to see conflict in black-and-white terms -- surely the vilification of the Other goes far back in human history -- but he rightly credits those photographers who attempted to portray the war in more ambiguous terms.  He draws interesting parallels between the way propaganda was used in WWII and how it was turned on its head in Vietnam (although I think he goes too far in suggesting that a more honest portrayal of WWII would have made people question our involvement in Vietnam earlier).  Roeder believes that image-makers have an important role to play in revealing the truth, and that only when we know (as much as we can) the full, ambiguous truth can we make good decisions.  \\"Those making, answering, or resisting the call to war would do well to be sure they are as certain of their facts as will be the mourners who greet the returning coffins.\\"  (156)  We can only hope that the current powers will heed this caution.<br />Roeder's text is well-written and to the point.  The selection of images for the \\"visual essays\\" is thoughtful, striking and illustrates the themes discussed in the text.  The limitation to visual images is a strength in that it allows Roeder to keep a tight focus, but it is a weakness to the extent that it prevents Roeder from giving a full picture of official control over the presentation of the war.  Still, this is a very useful and revealing book, recommended to anyone interested in the experience of WWII or in government propaganda efforts.	2002-12-31
US	52992798	R3NMDA9WQIZ0B8	1586481258	22287859	George Soros On Globalization	Books	3	27	30	N	N	A Critic From Within the System	I bought this book because I wanted to learn something about the globalization debate and try to understand why it has gotten some people stirred up enought to riot in Seattle and stage mass protests elsewhere. I had at least heard of the World Bank, the IMF and the WTO before all this got started, but (like probably 98% of Americans) I had no real idea of what they do or how they do it.  I didn't want to start out by reading either an economist (since as a general rule they seem to be excruciatingly poor writers) or one of the radical reformers (ditto).  George Soros seemed like the perfect solution -- a successful player in the international financial markets, who has directed a significant chunk of his wealth to international philanthropic efforts.  In other words, someone who has seen the problems from the inside and is working to remedy them (even though he has a stake in the current system).  Soros' conviction in France last week for insider trading probably hurts his personal credibility, but doesn't affect the validity of his arguments about our international institutions and the US's role in the world.<br />&quot;George Soros on Globalization&quot; is a short book (about 180 pages, with *lots* of blank space), which is both its chief virtue and a significant limitation.  It's a fast read and gave me a good overview of the problems with our global financial and trade arrangements (what these markets can and cannot do, the role the US has played and should play in the allocation of private and public goods), and a basic understanding of some possible solutions.  Brevity also translates to very little explanation, however (I still don't really know what the World Bank and the IMF do), and very little development of Soros' thoughts on possible solutions.  For example, Soros suggests that strengthening the ILO (rather than weakening the WTO) is the way to address global labor issues, but it's hard to imagine this happening and before I would consider this a practical solution I'd want to know more about how this would work and whether it's really feasible.<br />The &quot;centerpiece&quot; of Soros' book is his proposal for a reformed method of providing foreign aid through Special Drawing Rights (SDRs).  Unfortunately, if you don't know anything about currency reserves and how they affect the economies of developing countries (and I don't), a lot of this discussion will be over your head.  I had to take on faith quite a few bald statements about how SDRs would work and how they will benefit developing nations.  And I had some questions about the parts that were easier to follow.  For example, Soros proposes an independent board of professionally qualified experts who will identify projects that are eligible for donor financing.  He emphasizes the importance of this board being professional, expert and free of national ties -- but he makes no suggestion as to how this laudable but probably unrealistic goal is to be achieved.<br />Soros' concluding chapter is essentially a plea for the US to develop a broader understanding of its global interests -- that we are strongest and safest when we promote a more equitable distribution of public goods (such as health, education and the rule of law) and take a more multi-lateral leadership role in the reduction of poverty worldwide.  I happen to agree with Soros here, but I doubt that this chapter will persuade anyone who is not already inclined to accept Soros' conclusions.<br />Despite the defects noted, I would recommend this book to anyone who is wondering what the fuss over globalization is all about.  If you read nothing else, this will at least give you an overview of the issues.  Soros' writing style tends to the oracular pronouncement (there are lots of one or two sentence paragraphs -- as if the book grew out of a series of bullet points that he couldn't be troubled to turn into real paragraphs), which can be annoying, but it does get you through the material quickly.  Overall, a stimulating read.	2002-12-22
US	52992798	R1BQ6HXX2CIQC5	0738518824	10857736	The Chicago Bungalow (Illinois)	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Social History	&quot;The Chicago Bungalow&quot; is a collection of essays created as a companion volume to a Chicago Architectural Foundation exhibition staged in connection with the City's Historic Chicago Bungalow Initiative, which provides financing and other incentives to help bungalow owners improve and maintain their homes and communities.  To this day, the bungalows themselves are an important part of Chicago's architectural heritage and the neighborhoods that grew up around them are part of what makes Chicago such a liveable city.<br />Although sponsored by an architectural organization, this book emphasizes social history rather than aesthetic appreciation.  There is one brief essay on the characteristics of the bungalow (i.e., what is a bungalow and what, if anything, sets Chicago bungalows apart from those found in other areas of the country), but most of the rest of the text addresses how the various areas were developed by real estate tycoons and others, how bungalows were built and financed, how the modern conveniences they contained affected the lives of women, which social groups bought bungalows (interestingly, the non-Chicago authors seem to think these were middle class neighborhoods, while the Chicago authors mostly characterize them as working class), the social organizations of one bungalow community (Portage Park), and how neighborhoods have changed (primarily racially) over the years.  (The latter essay mostly glosses over Chicago's sad history of segregation, racism, block busting and white flight.)  I found the information on the &quot;own your own home&quot; movement (a relatively recent part of the American dream) and on the standardization of plumbing fixtures and non-standarization of wood trim particularly interesting.  Black-and-white pictures throughout the book more or less illustrate the text (sometimes the connection is not obvious) and there is a 16-page section of color photos illustrating the diversity of forms and some of the decorative features of Chicago bungalows.<br />I would recommend this book to anyone who is interested in the origins of this housing form and how it affected the lives of working class Chicagoans.  If your interest is confined to the aesthetic aspects of bungalows, however, this will not add much to what you already know.	2002-12-18
US	52992798	R1KACNH9XNEVM3	0827605250	889436585	From Jerusalem to the Edge of Heaven	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Poetic Vision of Renewed Jewish Secularism	Ari Elon advocates a kind of Jewish pluralism, where being Jewish includes a cultural and ethical heritage but does not necessarily mean accepting rabbinic Judaism as a religion.  He celebrates the Torah, and particularly the aggadic portions of the Babylonian Talmud, as a source of creativity and inspiration for secular and religious alike and hopes, through his teaching, to bring it to a wider audience.  In Elon's view, only free-thinking Jews, grounded in but not controlled by their traditions, can have the creativity to be their own gods, to find uniquely Jewish solutions to the problems that beset Israel and Jewish culture more generally.<br />\\"From Jerusalem to the Edge of Heaven\\" is not so much an attempt to persuade anyone that Elon is correct, as it is an attempt to persuade that such a thing is possible and to provide a vision of what a free-thinking Jewish creativity might look like.  The beginning and end of the book are a pastiche of autobiographical sketches, speeches given by Elon while teaching Talmud to secular Israelis, and Elon's imaginative diary of reserve duty in Gaza.  These sections (some of which are more successful than others) provide context for the book's longest section, an extended fantasia, based on Talmudic stories, on what it means to live a life of learning and creativity.  This seems to me an utterly original and mostly convincing understanding of the sages of the Talmud, with modern implications that are only hinted at in Elon's brief book.<br />Elon assumes some basic familiarity with Zionist leaders and ideas and with Talmudic aggadah, but he is writing for educated lay people, not scholars.  His argument is mostly easy to follow, although I found it repetitive in a few spots.  The style is poetic and idiosyncratic, but easy to read once you get into it.  Recommended to anyone with an interest in secular alternatives that preserve tradition without becoming enslaved by it.	2002-12-16
US	52992798	R1TW4H54O8NXYF	1400046130	439113626	If a Place Can Make You Cry: Dispatches from an Anxious State	Books	3	17	30	N	N	Profoundly Sad	I started \\"If A Place Can Make You Cry\\" expecting what the dust jacket promises -- the story of a family's move from California to Israel, from safety to war, why they did it and how it affected them (particularly the children). What I got instead was something very different, worth reading for the many questions it raises, but profoundly sad and dispiriting -- one man's journey from a religion and culture based on moral values to one based on land and security. As Gordis puts it toward the end of the book, \\"when you finally understand what is important to you, you have to be willing to fight for it.\\" (266) The land of Israel itself becomes that important to Gordis, important enough that he is willing to stand aside and tolerate the suffering of innocent Palestinians (of which he admits there are many) in order to secure his family's safety. (See pages 186-87 for an explicit admission that he is sacrificing his values for security.) Maybe I would do no better in his place, but it still sad to watch.<br />Gordis will make you think about other interesting questions -- what does it mean to have a home? Can one live a meaningful Jewish life outside Israel? How does one justify where one lives (or doesn't live)? Gordis is of two minds on many of these questions -- for example, he states several times that he's not suggesting all Jews are morally obligated to move to Israel, but at the same time, he does in fact suggest that meaningful Jewish life is possible only if it is at risk (see, e.g., page 259). Gordis seems to be utterly befuddled by the idea of secular Israelis or secular Jews (for example, at pages 66-67, where he asks \\"what is the point?\\" of having this country if it's not religious) -- apparently ignoring the fact that there would be no State of Israel without the secular Zionists. (For an interesting look at combining secular values with the religious and cultural heritage of Judaism, read \\"From Jerusalem to the Edge of Heaven,\\" by Ari Elon.)<br />It is notsurprising that Gordis fails to offer any solutions to what are obviously very complicated problems.  Where it seems to me that the book really fails is in the limited range of viewpoints it presents.  Perhaps because the book originated in personal emails to family and friends, it consists almost entirely of Gordis' personal observations and angst, his own questioning of himself, his values and his actions.  His wife and children are present only as foils, for Gordis to react to something they've said, done or experienced.  I did not come away with any sense of who they are or what any of them really think.  Secular, Orthodox and Palestinian viewpoints are barely mentioned (of these, the best represented are the Palestinians, interestingly enough, although mostly to illustrate Israeli failures).  At the end, it's hard to say whether you've learned much about the state of Israel today or if you've just learned something about one man's viewpoint.  And although that viewpoint develops somewhat over time, the constant hammering away at the same issues becomes tiring by the end by the book (again, if you read one email/chapter every few weeks, it probably wouldn't be nearly so bad).<br />Despite these significant qualifications, the book is generally well written, a quick read, and I am giving it extra credit for presenting a point of view we seldom get to see and for making me think about the questions he raises.	2002-12-03
US	52992798	R3H516Y0MQXP05	0691043892	518314978	The Legend of the Baal-Shem	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Greet the day which enchains thee . . .	Martin Buber (1878 - 1965) was a German Jewish philosopher-theologian and one of the most original and influential thinkers of the 20th Century.  In this work, he does not set forth his own theology so much as trace one of its roots.  \\"The [Hasidic] legend is the myth of I and Thou [the title of Buber's most famous work], of the caller and the called, the finite which enters into the infinite and the infinite which has need of the finite.\\" (13)  Buber provides a brief introduction and an essay on the spiritual life of the Hasidim (both written in somewhat difficult, mystical language), but the bulk of this book is Buber's retelling of 20 stories from the life of the Ba'al Shem Tov.  The stories are beautiful, told in simple and direct language, and convey the lessons that the Ba'al Shem taught (or was taught -- the Ba'al Shem occasionally errs himself and has to be guided back to the correct path).  The lessons are about living with dedication, uniting with God in joy, overcoming the evil impulse, and finding the holy in everything around us.  Greet the day which enchains thee . . . art thou not already freed?<br />These stories are for everyone who is interested in the mystical experience.  You will need to have some basic background in Kabbala to understand some aspects of some of the stories (the chapter on Kabbala in Barry Holtz' \\"Back to the Sources\\" is probably enough), and you may want to review the Glossary before starting on the stories if you are not familiar with basic Jewish religious terms.  Highly recommended.	2002-11-24
US	52992798	R3W0NP49GYWLT4	069100899X	386283023	Racism: A Short History	Books	4	38	40	N	N	Thought-Provoking Overview	George Fredrickson is a Stanford history professor who has studied racism (particularly of the white supremacist variety) for many years. In this \\"Short History,\\" he attempts a synthesis and comparison of much of what he has learned from his own work and that of others. An initial problem in tracing the history of \\"racism\\" is in deciding what exactly counts as \\"racism\\" -- for example, is the ancient prejudice against foreigners (barbarians) a kind of racism or simply xenophobia or ethnocentrism? Fredrickson excludes ancient examples on the ground that members of disfavored groups could (more or less) overcome these prejudices by adopting (assimilating) the dominant culture. One's status as Other was neither immutable nor (necessarily) heritable. An essential element of racism, in Fredrickson's view, is the belief that certain differences are tied to race, that those differences cannot be overcome by human action, *and* (most critically) that those differences have implications for how society ought to be structured (ranging from informal prejudice and discrimination against the disfavored group through legal segregation to exclusion/extermination).<br />Definition in hand, Fredrickson provides a fascinating overview of how religious prejudice (against Jews and heathens) gradually transformed (through different paths) into racial prejudice, and how racial prejudice became official policy in the American South of the Jim Crow era, Nazi Germany and apartheid South Africa. (European attitudes toward Native Americans are briefly explored, but then dropped without much development, and the eventual subjugation of Native Americans by the federal government is ignored completely, for reasons which are not apparent to me.) While pointing out significant differences between these three instances of racism, Fredrickson also draws some interesting parallels and contrasts. The role of international events and economic developments in first creating and then destroying these overtly racist regimes is explored in enough detail to make me want to read more.<br />Fredrickson provides the reader with a lot to think about, including the role of racism today, and whether \\"biological\\" racism is now being transformed into a kind of \\"culturism\\" that makes certain aspects of culture stand in for race. This is a book of \\"big thoughts\\" (as one might expect from a short history), and fulfills an important role in setting out a grand theory that others can respond to. The writing is clear, concise and readily intelligible to non-scholars. Fredrickson does not purport to provide any cures or even suggestions for eliminating current strains of this old disease, but like all good historians he identifies the symptoms and the conditions in which the disease flourishes. Highly recommended.	2002-11-11
US	52992798	R33OVKNPBBB69Y	0195089006	172568046	Responses to Suffering in Classical Rabbinic Literature	Books	4	4	4	N	N	History of Thought, But What Does It Mean?	David Kraemer takes a historical approach to classical rabbinic responses to the problem of suffering (i.e., if God is omniscient, omnipotent and just, why do the good suffer?), reviewing their development through time, and comparing pre-rabbinic thinking in the Bible and in other sources.  He approaches the classical rabbinic works as historical literary documents bound up in the social contexts of their times.  Among other things, this means that he attempts to understand statements in a 5th Century document (for example) within the 5th Century historical setting, even though particular statements in that document may be attributed to rabbis of other centuries.<br />Kraemer provides a clear and careful reading of the texts he has chosen to review, from the Bible through the Mishnah, the Halakhic and Aggadic Midrashim and the two Talmuds.  Somewhat oddly, to my mind, he does not discuss Lamentations in his review of Biblical literature on suffering, even though responses to the destruction of the Temple are a significant source of the rabbinic literature on suffering that he discusses.  (For an excellent discussion of Lamentations and subsequent literature on it, see Tod Linafelt's &quot;Surviving Lamentations.&quot;)  Kraemer covers a lot of ground, however, and succeeds in tracing a broadening out of the allowable responses to suffering recognized in rabbinic literature.  Where I felt the book fell short was in drawing any conclusions beyond this very general historical trend.  For example, Kraemer demonstrates that the Bavli allows for a rejection of suffering and a questioning of God's judgment, but says nothing about what this might mean for the rabbis' theology or for their own legislative and judicial projects.<br />If you are simply looking for a review of the classical rabbinic literature on the subject of suffering, this is a superb book, readily accessible to non-scholars and highly recommended.	2002-11-06
US	52992798	R1R6KGOFDEQOU0	0226481905	52571009	Surviving Lamentations: Catastrophe, Lament, and Protest in the Afterlife of a Biblical Book	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Life Of A Book About Death	Tod Linafelt has produced a very short but extremely satisfying and thought-provoking book, which manages to fold together the Biblical book of Lamentations (both Linafelt's own literary dissection of it and other commentators' readings of it); the explicit responses and reactions to Lamentations in Second Isaiah, Targum Lamentations, Eikkah Rabbah and Eleazar ben Kallir's medieval poems; the implicit, post-Holocaust echoes of Lamentations in Cynthia Ozick's famous story \\"The Shawl\\"; and the thought of Walter Benjamin and Jacques Derrida on translation, the survival of literature and the literature of survival.  Linafelt's analysis of all of these texts is sensitive and nuanced, extraordinarily so considering the brevity of the book and the amount of ground covered.  You do not need to be a scholar to appreciate this work, just a careful reader who is willing to approach the texts with an open mind.  A superb dicussion of an ancient work that will (unfortuantely) be relevant as long as people are willing to be unspeakably cruel to others.	2002-11-06
US	52992798	R3308CBNBH4UA6	0375509283	461355741	The Threatening Storm: The Case for Invading Iraq	Books	5	39	48	N	N	Essential Reading for the Public Debate	Kenneth Pollack has provided essential background reading for every member of the public who wants to have an intelligent opinion on the question of what we should do about Iraq. If you're like me, you have a hard time remembering who did what to whom when and why it matters -- and the first section of \\"The Threatening Storm\\" is devoted to a brief (100 pages) summary of Iraqi history, from colonial government through Saddam's rise to power, US relations with Iraq, the Iran-Iraq war, the Gulf War and the tortured history of the UN sanctions. If you read only this much, you will at least understand why the containment/sanctions regime has failed (and has no realistic chance of being revived in any productive form).<br />The second section of the book (another 100 pages) gives an overview of the situation today -- the massive police state run by Saddam, the nature of the threat he poses, and what other Persian Gulf states (and others in the area and in Europe) think of his regime. The description of Saddam's repressive policies and the threat he poses are both chilling (both more realistic and more scary than anything I have heard from our current Administration). The country-by-country overview of current attitudes toward Iraq and what US policy should be was particularly fascinating. Pollack carefully proceeds through each country, explaining their own particular interests in and policies toward Iraq, and how they wish the US to act. This section provides some very interesting perspectives that I have not seen elsewhere in the popular media, particularly on Jordanian, Syrian and Turkish interests.<br />In the final 200 pages, Pollack turns to an analysis of US policy options. He carefully reviews all of the options, assessing their feasibility (the stumbling block of any renewed sanctions regime and of covert operations) and weighing the arguments pro and con. Pollack convinces me that the only real options are a fall back to \\"pure\\" deterrence (consisting of liftingthe remaining sanctions, allowing Saddam to rebuild his military strength and eventually (soon) acquire nuclear weapons, while relying on the threat of US military intervention should he attempt to act beyond his own borders) or a full-scale invasion to remove Saddam and rebuild Iraq. As between deterrence and invasion, I wish that I could say that I think deterrence will work. I'm not excited about the US going to war -- ever -- and particularly not without an immediate provocation. I started this book looking to pick holes in the argument. But I have to confess that Pollack has convinced me that deterrence poses too many risks. Our Cold War deterrence of the Soviet Union is often cited as an example -- but what we deterred the USSR from doing was attacking the US. We did not deter them from Berlin or Prague or Afghanistan, nor did we keep them from meddling in any number of African, Asian and South American countries. Instead, Soviet nuclear weapons deterred *us* from intervening. Once Saddam acquires nuclear weapons, will we really risk a nuclear attack on the Saudi oil fields or Tel Aviv in order to defend Kuwait? Even if Saddam does not invade Kuwait, he will have the economic and military power to make other Gulf states bend to his will, and could wind up effectively controlling a substantial share of the world's oil supply, with potentially devastating economic effects. By comparison to these risks, the costs of war, high though they may be, seem amply justified.<br />On the other hand, I also think that Pollack underestimates some of the problems associated with invasion.  First, he more or less dismisses the need for a legal justification for invasion, saying it would be better if we had one, but it is not essential.  I think that many Americans and most of our allies (in the Middle East and elsewhere) will find it hard to support any war that does not have an adequate legal cause.  In the absence of overt provocation by Iraq, we at least need a United Nations mandate behind us.  How can we call others \\"rogue states,\\" if we ourselves act without an international consensus behind us?  Second, Pollack makes a persuasive case that we can invade only with the support of the Saudis and other Gulf states, who will support us only if the Israeli-Palestinian dispute is at least quiet.  That hardly seems likely in the near future.  If invasion also turns out not to be feasible, we may be left with no option but deterrence.  At least having read \\"The Threatening Storm,\\" I now know what risks that entails.<br />Pollack is eminently well-qualified to write about Iraq, having served in the CIA and the National Security Council during the first Bush and the Clinton administrations. He writes well and provides enough detail to make his arguments compelling without bogging down in military detail. He gives all arguments a fair treatment, acknowledges that the costs of invasion will be high and vigorously advocates a rebuilding of the Iraqi state and economy as an essential element of any invasion policy. Nation-building is not Pollack's area of specialty, which shows in his chapter on reconstruction and probably makes him overly optimistic about what reconstruction will cost, its prospects for building a prosperous and stable Iraq, and its potential to rehabilitate the US in the eyes of the popular Arab world. Nevertheless, his point -- that it would be foolish for us to incur the cost of toppling one destabilizing regime only to allow chaos or another unstable regime to take its place -- is well taken, and undoubtedly other resources can fill in the nation-building picture.<br />Highly recommended to all who wish to have an informed opinion in the debate on Iraq.	2002-10-27
US	52992798	R2L2ITOR6QU7UP	1586480499	467724921	War Is A Force That Gives Us Meaning	Books	4	216	239	N	N	In Love With War	Chris Hedges was a war correspondent for many years, covering the various wars and insurgencies in Central America, North Africa, the Middle East and the Balkans.  This book is not so much a memoir (although Hedges draws deeply on his own experience) as it is a meditation on the effects of war and of the nationalist myths that often provide a basis for war -- how easy it is to be caught up by the myth of the hero, of noble sacrifice, of the utter depravity (inhumanity) of the enemy (the Other), and how difficult it is to recover from the inevitable disillusionment when the terror of war, the collapse of morality and the essential humanity of the Other is revealed.  Hedges is at his best in discussing the aftermath of war -- the collective forgetting as history and memory are erased, lest the survivors be forced to face what they have done.  Yet it is only by recovering the truth, acknowledging guilt and seeking reconciliation that society can begin to heal and move forward.<br />Hedges' message is an important one as we rush headlong into war, particularly for all who demonize the \\"axis of evil\\" without acknowledging the role we have played in creating the despair and rage that have turned men and women into terrorists.  As Hedges shows, it is difficult for non-combatants to resist the national myth, to penetrate behind the approved rhetoric, to waver from the absolute, unquestioning patriotism demanded by the state.  But some must do so if we are to keep our moral compass and begin to heal the world (i.e., to address the despair felt by both sides).<br />Although the message is strong, there are a few weaknesses in this book.  Hedges tends to over-generalize based on his experiences in the Balkans, characterizing all war as though it involved marauding packs of criminals (otherwise known as militias).  The Persian Gulf War, while certainly displaying many of the mythic elements necessary to any war, was either about freedom for the Kuwaitis or about access to oil -- and was certainly about power -- but in any event does not seem to have involved the kind of wanton depredation on the civilian population common to the Balkans and (to a more limited extent) the Palestinian-Israeli conflict.  Although the book is short, it does get repetitive after a while, as Hedges hammers home his points about what war does to (and for) us.  We also lose contact to some extent with Hedges' personal experience, as he comes to focus more on the experiences of others as the book progresses, and the book loses some of the immediacy it had at the beginning.<br />Overall, a very worthwhile (and quick) read for anyone concerned about our future as we rush into the war on terror.	2002-10-05
US	52992798	R14PV59CZQ3ZLN	0804737045	499504742	Dying for God: Martyrdom and the Making of Christianity and Judaism (Figurae: Reading Medieval Culture)	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Discourses of Martyrdom in Early Judaism and Christianity	As a literary analysis of the discourses of martyrdom in early Rabbinic Judaism and Christianity, \\"Dying for God\\" is a complete success.  Boyarin does a masterful job of exploring and contrasting significant martyr texts from both traditions, showing the various ways in which they deal with the question of whether martyrdom should be avoided, accepted, celebrated or even actively sought out, how they define and talk about martyrdom, how this discourse changes over time (from stoic acceptance of death as preferable to transgressing a commandment, to positive joy at fulfilling a commandment to love God with all one's soul), and the various motifs and themes that are sometimes shared between the two traditions.  Boyarin convincingly demonstrates that the two developing orthodoxies were in greater contact with each other during the early centuries of the common era than either would later care to admit.<br />I found Boyarin's historical/cultural analysis less convincing, at least in part because his goal seems to shift.  At some points in the book, he seems to be saying only that nascent Judaism and nascent Christianity were not always in utter opposition to each other, did not always view the other as \\"heresy,\\" and that in fact they were often quite in sympathy, as they worshipped the same God and refused the hegemony of the pagan Roman state.  There may have been (and likely were) \\"sects\\" that borrowed from both religions but which both religions would (in their \\"final\\" orthodox form) disavow.  (As acknowledged in a footnote, the historical evidence for this \\"middle ground\\" is barely touched on in this volume, however.  (202, n.89))  I have no quarrel with this conclusion, and indeed it is amply demonstrated throughout the book.<br />At times, however, Boyarin seems to want to go farther, suggesting that through the third (or, at times, even the fourth) century, Judaism and Christianity \\"were not yet at all clearly differentiated from each other.\\"  (17)  This does notseem consistent with the fact that he cites texts from the third and even the second century as being peculiarly Christian or peculiarly Jewish, nor with his insistence that while something called \\"Christianity\\" was persecuted by the Romans, something called \\"Judaism\\" was not (although certain of its practices were forbidden).  If Boyarin's point is simply that boundaries between cultural groups are fuzzy, that seems to me to be almost a truism.  There are Jews for Jesus today, but that does not mean that Judaism and Christianity are not clearly differentiated.<br />This is a scholarly work intended for scholars, although it can be read and appreciated by a reasonably well-educated non-scholar with some basic knowledge of late antiquity, early Christianity and early Judaism (like me).  Half of the book is endnotes and bibliography, which can be a terrible distraction from the main text (particularly on the many pages with 5 or 6 footnotes).  Although I was not persuaded by all of his arguments, Boyarin writes well and clearly and lays out the evidence for the reader to evaluate for himself.  Although this is not a history of martyrdom (or even a history of how Christianity and Judaism used their discussions of martyrdom to differentiate themselves), it will be of interest to anyone who wants to know more about this early, formative period of two of the great modern religions.	2002-09-08
US	52992798	R3R31BA1HD3BY8	0875802419	860126538	Chicago Transit: An Illustrated History	Books	2	18	21	N	N	Just the Dry, Disjointed Facts	As a life-long Chicagoan, I grew up riding buses and the El.  For 16 years after I graduated from law school, I lived on the North Side and didn't own a car -- public transit and cabs were all I needed (and I didn't have to worry about parking).  Over the years, I've come to love the City's transit system, and if you ride long enough and pay attention, you have to become curious about its history -- you'll notice El spurs that go nowhere, rail tracks peeking through street pavement, and so on.  And of course the politics of fare increases, capital improvements, expansion or contraction of routes, and regional planning and cooperation are all fascinating.<br />So I had high hopes for &quot;Chicago Transit,&quot; which I expected would answer a lot of questions I had about a subject I enjoy.  Unfortunately, while there is a lot of information here -- lots and lots of facts and figures, in mind-numbing detail -- the story of transit in Chicago seems to have gotten lost. There are glimpses of it -- a few pages on the career of Samuel Insull, some details on the political machinations behind the creation of the Regional Transportation Authority -- but most of the book is about how the various forms of transit were organized and set up financially, whether they made money during any given period, how many miles they covered and how many riders they served.  The technological changes from horse to steam to electric to diesel power (for buses and suburban trains) are discussed in some detail, as is the impact of the car, although here Young seems in over his head -- he understands that the car had a major impact on urban development and planning, and indeed claims several times that the car is actually a form of &quot;mass transit&quot; since it is used by masses of people -- but he does not really address how the car affected public transit.  He concedes that most people who arrive in the Loop (5 out of 7) do so by mass transit -- so does decreased ridership mean that fewer people work in the Loop?  Or that fewer shop in the Loop?  Or that fewer people use the El or buses in off-peak hours to get around the rest of the City?  None of these questions were answered to my satisfaction.<br />A couple of choices add to the confusion and piling on of detail.  As noted, Young does not confine himself to public transportation, but also devotes a significant amount of space to non-commuter rail traffic and to the development of the car and of highways.  Obviously you can't really write a history of public transit without discussing those subjects, but Young devotes whole sections or chapters to them, taking a big detour from his main subject.  Young also tends to go through the history of one form of transit (street railways, for example) in one chapter, and then turn to another form of transit (the El) in the next chapter, leading to a lot of repetition and jumping back forth in time.  Even within a chapter, Young may cover 50 years of history of the West Side El, and then go back to the beginning to talk about the South Side lines.<br />Overall, there's lots of data here, but very little story and only a few (questionable) conclusions.  There is nothing on the impact public transit (or the absence of it) has on the lives of people everyday.  There is a nice selection of black-and-white photographs, mostly featuring the railcars of various eras.  If you need a resource for basic information on Chicago transit, you will find this volume useful, but if you are a general reader looking for an interesting and thought-provoking read, you had best look elsewhere.	2002-08-25
US	52992798	RH1A7EORZKSYG	0874415470	45603490	Conservative Judaism: The New Century	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Not Orthodox, Not Reform	Rabbi Gillman provides a fascinating history of the origins and development of the Conservative Movement, including its struggles to articulate a philosophical/theological basis for its position somewhere between Orthodox literalism and Reform individualism.  I was unaware that the Reconstructionist Movement had its origins in those struggles (and indeed that Reconstructionist thought still plays a significant role in the Conservative articulation of its mission).  I found the chapters on Conservative decision-making (concerning the admission of women to the rabbinate and the drafting of Emet Ve-Emunah) particularly enlightening in the emphasis on the role of the community and the viability of minority positions.<br />I would recommend this book to anyone who is interested in the origins of the modern American Jewish movements, as well as anyone interested in the Conservative Movement in particular.  Rabbi Gillman admits that he is a partisan of the Conservative solution to the dilemma of practicing Judaism in the modern world, but he is generally fair and unbiased in his discussion of the other movements (although like most non-Orthodox he is unhappy with the role of the Orthodox rabbis in Israel).  The book is well written and engaging, striking just the right balance between theoretical discussions and \\"mini-biographies\\" of the leaders of the Movement.  Rabbi Gillman's ultimate concern is with how to nurture a community of committed Jews in the modern world, and that concern informs every page of this informative and thought-provoking book.	2002-08-18
US	52992798	R3U6RW5TTKO383	0807404802	76729019	Pirke Avot: A Modern Commentary on Jewish Ethics (Modern Commentary On) (English, Hebrew and Hebrew Edition)	Books	4	43	50	N	N	Five-Star Text, Three-Star Commentary	\\"Pirke Avot\\" (the \\"Chapter of the Fathers\\") is a tractate of the Mishnah that collects not laws but sayings of the tannaitic Rabbis, mostly concerning the virtues of Torah study and the proper conduct of scholars.  It is one of the classics of rabbinic literature, included (in whole or in part) in most prayer books, and the source of many familiar sayings.  The picture it presents of Torah study as a democratic ideal, available to all and instilling a generous humility and respect for others, is a goal we can still admire and aspire to.<br />The translation and commentary presented here is helpful but leaves something to be desired.  Each passage of Avot is followed by a brief commentary, generally identifying the rabbis quoted, providing some quasi-historical background on them and their relationship to other quoted rabbis, clarifying obscure phrases and summarizing the thoughts of Rashi, Maimonides and Bartinoro on many of the passages.  (The introduction might lead one to think that the commentary also summarizes \\"Avot de Rabbi Natan\\" and Yom Tov Lippman Heller's commentary, but I found only a few references to either of these works.)  This commentary is very helpful for understanding the plain meaning of the text, but seldom goes beyond the plain meaning to explore the theological or ethical significance of the passage.  (A few passages that make the Reform editors uncomfortable are noteable exceptions -- here the commentary notes that \\"we modern Jews\\" look at things differently.  While I agree with the modern conclusions, I found this condescending attitude annoying and unnecessary.)<br />Each chapter of Pirke Avot is followed by a section of brief essays (usually two or three paragraphs) by the editors on \\"salient themes.\\"  These often seemed more tangential than salient to me (a brief statement in Avot 3:1 that we return to dust leads to an essay on Jewish views on cremation), but they were interesting and provided further background on various aspects of traditional Jewish history, practice and thought.  The brief essays are followed by section of somewhat longer \\"gleanings\\" from the works of various Reform or liberal Jewish thinkers.  These tend to be quite tangential and are plainly intended to provide food for thought and discussion, not to answer questions.  A few of them seemed more than a little out-dated, but in general the selection was interesting, if obviously slanted toward a Reform view of the world.<br />A final note on the translation, which is colloquial and inclusive.  The former (particularly the use of contractions, which to my ear made too many passages sound like \\"don't be a don't bee\\") was irritating to me, but that's a matter of taste.  The attempt to be inclusive (i.e., to use gender-neutral language), however, led on more than one occasion to translations that were so awkward they were a distraction (\\"everyone has one's moment\\"), which I find more difficult to forgive.	2002-08-18
US	52992798	R1UF51TAFFZXEN	1568210221	414291975	The Talmud for Beginners: Prayer (Volume 1)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Good Intro To Spiritual Side of The Talmud	Rabbi Abrams' goal in Volume 1 of \\"The Talmud for Beginners -- Prayer\\" is to demonstrate that the Talmud is not just a collection of arcane laws dealing with the minutiae of Jewish civil law and ritual observance.  Instead, she wants us to hear the Talmud's spiritual voice, and see the theological vision of our relationship to God that inspired and unified the work of the classical rabbis.  She largely succeeds in this goal, by walking the reader through tractate \\"Berakhot,\\" which deals with prayer.  Each chapter in the book corresponds to a \\"chapter\\" of Berakhot.  Rabbi Abrams provides a sense of the overall structure of the tractate, what themes each chapter deals with and how it relates to the whole.  The commentary is not line-by-line, but there are substantial excerpts from the text, followed by comments on what the rabbis are saying in that particular sugya, how it fits into the chapter and tractate, and how it can fit into our own lives today.  Berakhot is a particularly good choice for Rabbi Abrams' purpose, since it is not one of the more technical, legalistic tractates (trying to do the same thing with Bava Metzia, for example, would be a lot more difficult), and since it focuses on prayer -- something most of us are familiar with already.<br />If you are looking for a nice, easy beach at which to wet your feet in the sea of Talmud, this book will serve your purpose.  Rabbi Abrams shows that the Talmud need not be daunting and that there is a truly spiritual aspect to it.  You do not need to learn any of the hermeneutical rules or understand dialectical argument in order to read and appreciate this book (as noted above, partly because of the choice of Berakhot as the tractate for discussion).  This is more of an extended sermon than a scholarly commentary, although the scholarship is obviously there behind the scenes.  I have only two small quibbles.  First, Rabbi Abrams notes in her introduction that her interpretation is not necessarily the conventionalone.  I would have appreciated some indication of where her interpretation diverges and what the \\"conventional\\" interpretation is.  There is virtually no discussion of the classical commentators (only one mention of Rashi in the entire book), so it's a little difficult to know exactly what you're getting.  Second, although I'm guessing that at least two-thirds of the text of Berakhot is provided, there are also some significant gaps, and I'm curious about them -- did they not fit into Rabbi Abrams' understanding of this tractate?  Were they too difficult for the purposes of this book?  Whatever the reason for the omission, I suppose you could say that Rabbi Abrams has succeeded in making me want to read the entire tractate on my own, so perhaps this has to be counted in her favor.  Overall, I would count this as a very successful introduction for beginners.	2002-08-04
US	52992798	R3N52Z2VA9SKCW	0810965771	254848732	Prints: Art and Techniques (Victoria and Albert Museum Catalogues)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent Brief Overview of Print Techniques	Lambert provides excellent brief descriptions of the many printing techniques -- how they work mechanically, where they came from, how they have developed, and the characteristic marks they leave on the paper.  Illustrations are well chosen to show off the attributes of the various techniques, with numerous enlargements to provide detail.  The technical discussion is generally clear and easy to follow, even if you have never observed the process (electrotyping being the one notable exception).  Covers relief processes, intaglio processes, lithography and screenprinting, including modern photomechanical processes relevant to each.  Lambert also offers a few observations on the commercial use and development of various techniques, and includes a chapter on paper and a brief, helpful bibliography.  A very good overview for newcomers to prints and useful reference for the more experienced.	2002-07-26
US	52992798	R36WAM8Q8A6K40	1568216165	243570480	Understanding the Talmud: A Modern Reader's Guide for Study	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Good Idea, Disappointing Execution	After reading a number of general introductions to the Talmud, I was looking for a book that would help me actually read the Talmud -- that is, take me through an extended passage line-by-line and explain what's going on.  From the card catalogue description, &quot;Understanding the Talmud&quot; sounded like it fit the bill, and indeed part of the book does exactly what I wanted.  Rabbi Boraz takes the reader through a complete sugya that proposes (and refutes and counter-refutes) various arguments offered in support of a particular statement of law (that if two witnesses testify to only part of a loan, the borrower is entitled to take an oath denying that he owes the remainder).  He divides the passage up according to the various propositions advanced, providing his own translation (including an invaluable translation of the Rashi to this passage, something I have rarely seen elsewhere), and explaining how the various arguments work.  As he goes through the argument, he does an excellent job of explaining background principles that are necessary to understand the argument.  After going through the entire sugya once, a separate chapter discusses in more general terms the theological implications of the oath, the lender/borrower relationship, the role of admissions and witnesses, and the function of the court in Biblical and Midrashic sources.  A third chapter then applies these general considerations to the specific arguments advanced in the sugya, deepening one's appreciation of the theological significance of the law under discussion.  These three chapters are preceded by an excellent chapter that outlines very clearly the structure of several types of rabbinic argument -- the kal v'chomer, binyan av, gezerah shavah, and k'lal u'phrat -- all of which are used in the sugya under discussion.<br />Although there is a lot to like in this book, there are some significant problems as well.  First of all, you are halfway through the book before you actually get to the discussion of the Talmud passage.  Some of the introductory material (the discussion of the hermeneutical rules, in particular) is necessary and helpful, but the rest of it could and should have been condensed to about 20 pages.<br />A second problem was created for me by Rabbi Boraz' underlying assumption (sometimes stated explicitly) that the process the rabbis are engaged in in the Midrash, Mishnah and Talmud is one of objective, logical deduction from the first principles of the Torah.  He goes so far as to define &quot;hermeneutics&quot; in the glossary as &quot;the science of logic.&quot;  I will grant that interpretive methods like the gezerah shavah can be applied logically once you adopt that method, but I do not think that *logic* requires you to agree that because the same phrase is used in two places, you can import all of the rules associated with one circumstance into the other.  Nor does *logic* require that every phrase in the Torah have its own meaning, with no repetition allowed.  Both of these are subjective interpretive choices that may make sense for all kinds of reasons -- but when presented as objective logic, I found myself fighting the arguments and being unpersuaded, even by positions I might have accepted if presented differently.<br />The most fundamental problem with &quot;Understanding the Talmud,&quot; however, is that the scripturally based method of Talmud study advocated by Rabbi Boraz is not something that the beginning student can transfer on his own to the reading of other passages of Talmud.  As noted above, Rabbi Boraz' approach is very helpful with things like understanding the structure of various rabbinic arguments, and that knowledge is certainly portable to other texts.  And he succeeds in demonstrating that knowing the Torah and Midrash behind a given passage of Talmud can deepen your understanding of it.  But unless you are already thoroughly familiar with Torah and Midrash, you will not know where to look for that additional deep background.  In other words, what Rabbi Boraz really does here is prove that you need a teacher.<br />If you are looking for a general introduction to the Talmud, I would read Rabbi Steinsaltz' &quot;The Essential Talmud&quot; or the early chapters of Holtz' &quot;Back to the Sources,&quot; rather than beginning with this.  If you already have that background, then you can skip the first four chapters of this book, and just begin with the chapter on hermeneutics.  Although &quot;Understanding the Talmud&quot; is not everything I wanted it to be, I can still recommend it because it does an excellent job of explicating the passage under discussion, and gives the reader some skills in analyzing rabbinic arguments that can be used for further reading on one's own.	2002-07-21
US	52992798	R2EV9QNJR5QFMR	0814318568	18683040	Luke Karamazov (Great Lakes Books Series)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Mind of A Psychopath	In 1964, Luke Karamazov (then known as Ralph Searl) killed 5 men in cold blood.  He was arrested, confessed, tried, convicted and sentenced to life in prison without possibility of parole.  In 1972, the Michigan Supreme Court reversed his sentence.  While Ralph was awaiting retrial in Kalamazoo, 4 women were raped and murdered  in the area -- and a few weeks later, Ralph's older brother, Tommy, was arrested for those crimes.  Unlike Ralph, Tommy never confessed, but he too was convicted and sentenced to life in prison.  Ralph accepted a plea agreement to avoid retrial and was again sentenced to life; as part of the plea, he was allowed to change his name to Luke Karamazov.<br />Conrad Hilberry was a Professor of English at Kalamazoo College at the time of these crimes and the resulting trials, and became interested in the story of two brothers who were both convicted of serial murders.  \\"I began to wonder who these men were and how they got that way.  I wondered if I could talk with them.\\"  (25)  Talk with them he did, as well as with Julie, the woman who was married first to Tommy (before his crimes) and then to Ralph (while in prison).  This book is largely a record of those conversations, along with Hilberry's observations and attempts to make sense of their personalities.  Hilberry gives us long extracts from his recorded conversations -- mostly with Ralph and Julie, less with Tommy -- and largely allows the events to be told by them, in retrospect.  This is not an attempt to reconstruct the crimes or the circumstances of the Searls' childhood, but an effort to understand who they are now, in prison, and who they may have been when they killed.  Because Hilberry allows the Searls to tell much of their story in their own words, we obtain a unique insight into their thought processes and feelings.<br />Hilberry is not an investigative reporter, nor is he a psychologist, criminologist or lawyer.  Some people might conclude that he is not qualified to write this book.  Hilberry is, however, a poet, and he brings a poet's close observation and insight to his comments on these men.  I found his perspective unique and fascinating, and his efforts to understand the Searls in the larger context of the human project -- balancing the assertion of the individual ego against the desire for transcendence -- persuasive.  Highly recommended.	2002-07-06
US	52992798	R3GIGQOL11BPWG	0809105330	162313033	Rabbinic Stories (Classics of Western Spirituality)	Books	3	38	42	N	N	Great Stories, Disappointing Book	Despite the superb quality of the rabbinic stories themselves, I found this book a tremendous disappointment.  The first problem is with the selection of stories for this volume.  Rubenstein would like to provide a \\"standard corpus\\" of rabbinic stories, yet he states at the outset that he has selected only stories about the sages themselves and has excluded stories that expand on biblical narratives (p.4).  Maybe this decision can be justified, but Rubenstein makes no attempt to do so, and as a result leaves out many wonderful stories that would surely have to be included in any \\"standard corpus\\" (including, for example, the story of how Abraham came to reject his father's idols, or the story of how Joshua forgot 300 laws).  What makes the decision particularly odd is that some of the stories included do not involve the sages -- for example, Alexander Macedon and the Faraway King (contrasting one Gentile's justice with another one's greed) or the Martyrdom of Hannah and her Seven Sons -- while others (for example, those in the chapter on suffering) involve sages as characters but are really \\"about\\" a theological issue.<br />The second problem involves the format of the book.  The stories are grouped thematically, which is fine, with an introduction to each chapter and sometimes to each story.  Rubenstein admits in his general introduction that the individual introductions presume familiarity with the story, which means that the reader has to flip back and forth from introduction to story.  To make things even more complicated, a lot of important information (definitions, notes on wordplay, explications of difficult passages, and so on) is provided in endnotes, forcing the reader to flip from intro to story to endnotes and back again.  I found this process very annoying, made more so by the fact that the introductions are nothing special (usually just a summary of the story, with perhaps a statement of the most obvious moral and a few comments on the narrative structure).<br />Rubenstein follows the practice of form analytical criticism, breaking each story down into very brief sections labeled with letters and numbers, in order to emphasize the structure of each story and to facilitate comparison between different versions.  This can be helpful (particularly when dealing with different versions of the same story), but can also be distracting, and is occasionally forced (for example, in order to give each of the four parts of the Yerushalmi's story of Elisha b. Abuya a \\"tripartite\\" structure, Rubenstein seems to ignore an obvious break in [A](3) (which would give it four parts), and creates an artificial break between [D](2) and [D](3)).<br />Most significantly, by the halfway point, I found myself questioning the purpose of a book that collects rabbinic stories, pulling them out of their context of explicating either the law or the Bible.  Apart from some of the obvious morals, I repeatedly found myself wondering why the rabbis told this particular story, and what function it served in a larger argument.  For example, why is the story of the destruction of the Temple told in Tractate Gittin (which deals with the law of divorce)?  How much more meaningful is the Oven of Akhnai in the context of the discussion of the sin of \\"verbal wronging\\"?  Although many of the stories here can stand on their own as examples of the folktales or fables of a particular culture, most of them are also part of a larger argument and can support a much deeper analysis than is given here.<br />This selection of stories does have the virtue of being fairly short and a very quick read.  It is also a faithful translation and allows you to compare different versions (unlike, for example, the Sefer Ha-Aggadah (The Book of Legends), which is much more complete but \\"retells\\" the stories and combines variants).  Overall, not a bad introduction, but with very little meat on the bones.	2002-07-05
US	52992798	R3JT0QXIIL6UE8	0684871793	272714040	The End of Days: Fundamentalism and the Struggle for the Temple Mount	Books	5	17	21	N	N	Fascinating, Scary and Still Timely	If you believe in a just, all-powerful and merciful God, explaining why good people suffer is a terrible problem.  One solution is eschatology -- the belief that at the end of days, God will replace the current order with a new, perfect Kingdom of God, where believers will be rewarded and the wicked punished.  As Christianity and Islam became established mass religions, themselves playing significant roles in the current world order, their leaders tended to downplay hopes for an immediate or literal arrival of the Kingdom of God (and the overthrow of their own present power), looking instead for a metaphorical Kingdom of God, a goal that we strive for but never reach.  The leaders of Judaism, having no secular power themselves, attempted to protect a persecuted minority by avoiding overt challenges to authority, with the result that they too disavowed any immediate, literal, messianic expectations.  As a result, both \\"mainstream\\" followers of these religions and secular intellectuals tend to look down their noses at those who anticipate the imminent arrival of the literal Kingdom of God.<br />Millenial and messianic threads have nevertheless remained present in all of the monotheistic religions, and resurgent fundamentalism has insisted on a literal, imminent Kingdom of God.  Gershom Gorenberg does not attempt to explain the resurgence of religious fundamentalism in the late 20th Century, but he amply demonstrates how millenial or messianic thinking has influenced and been influenced by the course of recent history in the Middle East, from the Balfour Declaration through the first Intifada and the assassination of Yitzhak Rabin.  Gorenberg has spent hours with leaders of Christian millenial and Jewish messianic movements, many of whom see the rebuilding of the Temple as the key to bringing the end times.  Of these, a certain number are not willing to wait for God to act, but have taken it upon themselves to bring about the Kingdom of God, whether by stopping the peace process or by destroying the Dome of the Rock so that the Temple can be built in its place.  Since they expect battle, they are not afraid to bring on war; since they see themselves as already living under the \\"new\\" law of the \\"redeemed\\" world, they feel free to ignore the laws of this present one.<br />Gorenberg emphasizes (rightly, in my view) that we cannot dismiss what so many believe as \\"crazy\\" or as the product of \\"cults.\\"  He lets the leaders of these movements present their views in their own words, even as he criticizes the potential implications for those of us who live in this world.  Having read this book, I better understand the thinking of groups who view the peace process as inimical to God's work (though I still disagree with them), and I wonder even more what Sharon could *possibly* have been thinking when he went to the Temple Mount and brought on the present crisis.  Although Gorenberg's book was published in 2000 and therefore does not discuss the most recent events in the Middle East, he makes the point that disappointed millenial believers are perhaps even more dangerous than those still awaiting the date.  Equally important, the context Gorenberg provides for the impact of the 1967 War and reactions to the Oslo accords will be valuable to anyone interested in current events in the Middle East.<br />This is an important book, which takes millenial and messianic thinking seriously and details them in a way that I have seen no where else.  You cannot understand what a dangerous game politicians play in courting fundamentalists without reading this book.  And any peace process must take the likely fundamentalist reaction into account.  The only deficiency I found was that 90% of the book deals with Christian and Jewish fundamentalism, and only 10% with Islamic views.  I got the distinct impression that Gorenberg does not speak Arabic, and therefore had to rely on the scholarship of others and a few interviews in assessing Islamic fundamentalism.  Despite this weakness, the presentation of Christian and Jewish millenial thinking is so important and so powerful that I must recommend this to everyone interested in the future of the Middle East.	2002-06-29
US	52992798	R20CWJD2SO9B7U	0520046722	868455110	Buddhism and Society: A Great Tradition and Its Burmese Vicissitudes	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Fascinating Contrast of Theory and Practice	Spiro is an anthropologist, interested in the ways in which the intellectual strictures of doctrinal Theravada Buddhism are translated into the everyday practice of an entire society (in this case, that of Burma/Myanmar).  Although his field work in Burma was done in 1961 and 1962, I am not aware of anything more recent (undoubtedly due to the military regime), and saw nothing in a three-week visit early in 2002 to make me question the continuing usefulness of this work.<br />The book begins with an overview of Theravada Buddhist doctrine, which is one of the best and clearest short explanations I have read.  Spiro then explores how a system built on a quite pessimistic view of the world (life is suffering, suffering is caused by desire, escape suffering by giving up your desire (for people, things, and so on) and achieve the non-Being of nirvana) can be implemented by people who must live in the world (and who are naturally inclined to believe that suffering is caused not by desire but by the frustration of desire).  His study of how the Burmese (both lay people and monks) actually understand and practice their Buddhism is fascinating and ultimately revealing of how *any* society adapts an elite belief system to a mass audience.<br />Spiro also includes an overview of the Buddhist ritual system in Burma, the functioning and role of the monkhood, and a few comments on the impact of Buddhist practice on Burmese society.  Spiro writes very well, with a minimum of jargon and pretension.  Although this is a scholary work (and I am not an anthropologist), I found it very easy to read, with a wealth of new and interesting material.  Kept me entertained for all of the (long) flight from Los Angeles to Bangkok.  Highly recommended to anyone interested in the practice of Theravada Buddhism, or planning a trip to Southeast Asia.	2002-06-22
US	52992798	R1X3U7G70G9P23	0810905647	858677214	Hunt Slonem: An Art Rich and Strange	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Glorious, Uncanny Paintings From A Modern Master	Hunt Slonem (b. 1951) paints the winged creatures of the air (birds and butterflies of all sorts), ocelots, saints, mysterious guardian faces, and occasionally Rudolph Valentino.  These iconic images are often suspended in space, either appearing or disappearing through a veil or grid/cage (hidden, hiding or trapped?), which sometimes mutes their otherwise vivid colors. Slonem uses light, space and pattern masterfully to display the totemic spirituality of his subjects.  And the resulting paintings celebrate that spirituality in works that are gloriously, wonderfully, joyfully beautiful.<br />Almost all of this volume is devoted to reproductions of Slonem's work, with a few photographs of his studios (themselves works of art) mixed in.  Color-reproduction is excellent and the works are beautifully displayed.  The selection of paintings covers a broad period of time from the mid-1980s though 2001 and presents a representative sample of Slonem's subjects.  The plates appear to be arranged thematically (with birds at both the beginning and the end), rather than chronologically.  Donald Kuspit's essay is mostly helpful in putting the spiritual quality of Slonem's work into words, although he occasionally lapses into psychobabble.  Minor criticisms -- a few pictures that appear to be out of focus (or enlarged beyond their capacity to render a sharp image), a table of contents that does not match up to the actual pages for the Bibliography and Collections, occasional confusion about which captions go with which pictures -- are annoying but not enough to outweigh the joys of this volume, which deserves to reach a wide public.	2002-06-21
US	52992798	R2M00WUGT6OQ05	0253208769	309853706	Nine Talmudic Readings by Emmanuel Levinas	Books	4	35	35	N	N	A Philosopher Reads The Talmud	Emmanual Levinas (1906-95) was a contintental philosopher, credited with introducing the thinking of Husserl and Heidegger to France.  He was raised in the Lithuanian Jewish community, however, and that heritage became increasingly important to him in the 1930s, culminating in his study of the Talmud following WWII.  The nine lectures collected in this volume were originally delivered by Levinas between 1963 and 1975.  In the guise of commentaries on specific passages of Talmud, these lectures represent Levinas' attempt to \\"translate\\" the values and the concerns of the Talmud into the terms of 20th Century phenomenological discourse.<br />Levinas' main concern is with the ethical aspect of Judaism, and the universal role it (in its specificity) plays.  Each lecture begins with a passage from the Talmud, which Levinas interprets line-by-line.  Although the interpretation often strays far afield from the plain meaning (and even, sometimes, beyond the symbolic or didactic meaning) of the passage under consideration, I do not think that the rabbis would disagree with Levinas' conclusions.  Most of the lectures ultimately turn to one's radical responsibility to and for the other.  It is not enough to be good oneself:  \\"the righteous are responsible for evil before anyone else is.  They are responsible because they have not been righteous enough to make their justice spread and abolish injustice.\\"  (186)  Levinas' interpretation of the story of the Gibeonites is particularly thought-provoking in these times:  the Gibeonites demanded talion (a life for a life) for the wrongs done to them by Saul; in doing so, by failing to show mercy toward the other, they excluded themselves from Israel.<br />Although I found much to think about in these lectures and may reread them, they are *not* easy to follow and are often written in the almost impenatrable prose of 20th Century continental philosophy.  The translator, Annette Aronowicz, provides a very useful introduction to Levinas,his thought in general, and what he is attempting to do in these lectures, but even with the introduction, I would not recommend this to someone who has no familiarity with philosophical discussion.  Familiarity with the Talmud is not required.	2002-06-16
US	52992798	R1SD2VPMJ39VCA	0877457026	305981457	A Point Is That Which Has No Part (Iowa Poetry Prize)	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Too Cute By Half	Waldner has a good and evocative ear, slinging moon, June, spoon rhymes and assonances around with grace and ease.  Perhaps she has become too enraptured by her facility with language, because I felt that there was nothing to most of these poems apart from the wordplay.  The occasional emotional insight was not enough for me to enjoy this book as a whole.	2002-06-16
US	52992798	RU508VCQWMN6B	0520210611	813899850	Thirty-five Years at Crown Point Press: Making Prints, Doing Art	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A Record of Achievement	Crown Point Press is one of the leading American printer/publishers of original fine prints, emphasizing intaglio (etching) techniques (although at various periods it has also sponsored woodblock projects).  This book is a celebration of 35 years (as of 1997) of printing at Crown Point, and consists of three essays, plus the catalogue of the exhibition that followed the acquisition of the Crown Point archive by the Fine Art Museums of San Francisco.<br />The first essay is a history of Crown Point Press, and particularly of the unique vision and direction given to the Press by its founder and first printer, Kathan Brown.  Although occasionally tedious (as when it lapses into lists of the artists who worked at the Press during a particular period), this essay provides interesting discussions of Brown's evolving philosophy, her interactions with artists belonging to various art movements, the different goals of the artists, and so on.  You also get a small glipse into the economics of print publishing.<br />The second and third essays were what I found most interesting.  Karin Breuer shows how the working proofs contained in the Press's archive document the artist at work, and the very different working methods that can be effective for different artists.  Steven Nash discusses the interrelationships between an artist's work in printmaking and his or her work in other media.<br />Two-thirds of the book is the exhibition catalogue, which shows the truly amazing breadth and quality of the work done at Crown Point over the years.  Although Brown has had a particular affinity for Minimalist and Conceptual art, she has invited interesting artists across a wide spectrum of &quot;isms&quot; to work at the Press, and the list of participating artists reads like a &quot;who's who&quot; of American art in the second half of the 20th Century.  Particularly significant artists at Crown Point have included Richard Diebenkorn, John Cage, Wayne Thiebaud and Sol LeWitt, all of whom are well represented in the catalogue.<br />This is certainly not a &quot;how to&quot; book, and it is probably still too soon to be able to look back and really say &quot;yes, this artist or movement was significant,&quot; or &quot;this Press made a difference in American art,&quot; or even &quot;this is the lasting contribution made by the post-WWII resurgence in printmaking.&quot;  This book provides an important record, however, of 35 years at one of the most important American printer/publishers, and as such makes it easier to think about these questions and begin to glimpse answers.	2002-06-02
US	52992798	R1S0S7ENP0MKL9	0787938777	810764175	When Hope and Fear Collide: A Portrait of Today's College Student	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Worth A Quick Read	Levine and Cureton present an interesting portrait of college students in the mid-1990s.  Their findings concerning students' perceptions of racial issues are particularly troubling and worthy of additional study and thought.  (For reasons that are not clear to me, the chapter entitled \\"Multiculturalism\\" deals almost exclusively with racial issues, and does not consider gender (dealt with elsewhere in a very limited way), sexual orientation, religion, or any of the other diverse cultural issues that true multiculturalism attempts to address.)  They present a lot of information, but give one very little idea what to do with it, except in the most of general of terms.  (Like another reviewer, I would have liked to have seen the last chapter expanded significantly.)  And I was concerned throughout that the information (gathered largely between 1993 and 1998) may now be out of date.  Even so, the authors make the important point that educators must look beyond their own perceptions and experience and attempt to see the world as their students do, if they hope to provide an education fitted to the demands of the 21st century.	2002-05-26
US	52992798	R2SRMWL06NVIRX	0312288840	940505853	Achilles: A Novel	Books	5	10	11	N	N	What It Means To Be Mortal	Although the dust jacket identifies \\"Achilles\\" as a novel, make no mistake about it -- this is poetry, even if it happens to look like prose on the page.  (Interestingly, \\"A Novel\\" does not appear on the title page or anywhere else -- perhaps this was just wishful thinking by a publisher scared of marketing the book as poetry.)  The spare, concentrated language, the interwoven images of water, fire and blood, the recurring themes of mortality and immortality -- life, death and something in between -- all are masterfully handled in this brief but deep book.<br />Although Achilles' life and death provide the framework for much of the book, in some ways he remains always apart from us.  In the underworld he is different from the other dead, just as in life he was different from other mortals.  Perhaps his choice, to die young but with a name that will live forever, sets him apart (undying, like the figures on Keats' Grecian urn).  We know Achilles' actions, but we seldom see into him in the way that we see into the other characters -- Peleus, Thetis, Priam, Helen, Chiron.  Cook is nothing short of brilliant in taking us into the hearts and minds of these \\"subsidiary\\" characters.  Thetis' grief at the funeral of Achilles and Helen's lonely life are particularly harrowingly drawn.<br />As others have noted, the concluding transition to Keats is initially disconcerting, but as I ponder on it, I see more layers on which it works for me.  As demonstrated by the subject-matter of many of his poems, Keats was drawn to the classical past, and to the question of immortality -- what is it that endures?  Truth, beauty, art, a life that embodies those qualities -- whatever you call it, this book is one that will endure in my mind.	2002-04-27
US	52992798	R1SS19YBEVXG8P	1893164144	564752111	The Original Print: Understanding Technique in Contemporary Fine Printmaking	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Useful Survey of Technique	Byrne provides a good introduction to the four major groups of printing techniques -- relief (woodblock, linocut, etc.), intaglio (etching, aquatint, engraving, and so on), lithography and screenprinting -- briefly describing their history, mechanics and characteristic effects.  If you are interested in fine prints, this book will give you the vocabulary, although you really have to see some of the techniques in action to understand how they work.<br />Text is a small portion of the book, which is largely devoted to contemporary prints themselves, with commentary from some of the printers.  The book is *not* a general survey of contemporary fine prints, however.  Instead, the book seems to have been conceived as a collaboration between Guild.com (an Internet retailer of fine and decorative art) and several of the contemporary fine print publishers who make their work available through Guild (as well as through more traditional distribution channels).  Printmakers who do not sell through Guild are not represented, and artists who work on their own (typically in woodblock or linocut, which do not require a press) are similarly excluded.  Even so, many of the finest printmakers in the US are included, and the quality and variety of the work displayed is stunning. Color reproduction is quite good, although not perfect.	2002-04-21
US	52992798	RMRKKNPHSYWEI	0465020631	415707908	The Essential Talmud	Books	4	113	117	N	N	Useful Introduction, but not the &quot;Essential&quot; Talmud	Rabbi Steinsaltz, one of the most respected Talmudists of his generation, has devoted significant effort to introducing the Talmud to a wider audience and encouraging people to actually read it rather than merely read about it.  Starting to read the Talmud without some idea of what it is and what it is about would be a very frustrating project, however, and this book is intended to help bridge that gap.<br />&quot;The Essential Talmud&quot; is divided into three sections, covering history, content and method.  The historical section gives a very traditional account of the origins of the Talmud in the oral Torah, and its compilation and editing in Palestine and Babylon.  By &quot;traditional&quot; I mean that this is essentially the account that the Talmud gives of itself or that can be filled in from other rabbinic literature.  Whether or not this history is completely accurate, it is a significant part of the Talmud's self-presentation and of its authority, and throws important light on both the Talmud's content (largely the teachings of prior masters) and its methods (the obsessive quest to identify the authors of and reconcile the various teachings).  In short, it is very difficult to understand the Talmud if you do not understand where the Talmud believes it came from, and Rabbi Steinsaltz's chapters on history are very helpful in that regard.  He then goes beyond the Talmud itself to offer a brief history of Talmudic exegesis, and some very interesting information on the printing and persecution of the Talmud.<br />The second section of the book covers the structure and content of the Talmud.  Here Rabbi Steinsaltz offers a very concise summary of the topics touched on by the various tractates of the Talmud.  These very brief chapters can do no more than give one a sense of the general subject matter covered, but they successfully provide a general overview.  What I found lacking in this section was the complete absence of any citations to the Talmud itself, orany bibliography for further reading on the various subjects.  It is easy enough to guess that most of the material on marriage will be found somewhere in Tractates Ketubot and Kiddushin, but it is less easy to determine the source for his comments on the status of women or on ethics and halakhah.  Some citations here would have been nice, in case the reader is sufficiently intrigued to want to read more.  For example, in the chapter on ethics, Rabbi Steinsaltz summarizes rabbinic thinking on the sometimes conflicting claims of justice (&quot;truth&quot;) and compromise (&quot;peace&quot;).  I would love to read more on this subject, but I don't know where in the Talmud (or in other commentaries) to look.  (For a more detailed look at the subject matter of the Talmud, see Abraham Cohen's &quot;Everyman's Talmud,&quot; which has chapters that cover most of the tractate subjects, and additionally pulls together material on other subjects (such as the nature of God, sin and repentance, and so on) that is scattered throughout the Talmud.)<br />The third section of the book is entitled &quot;Method,&quot; and while it is in some ways the most intriguing part of the book, it is also in some ways the least successful.  Here Rabbi Steinsaltz attempts to give the reader a sense of how the Talmud operates, what problems it studies, how it approaches those problems, and how it uses logic, midrash and aggadah to achieve its goals.  There are many interesting insights here *if* you already have some experience with reading Talmud.  The real difficulty is the almost complete lack of concrete examples or actual text from the Talmud to illustrate Rabbi Steinsaltz's points.<br />Overall, I found this to be a good summary of basic points that someone new to Talmud study needs to know.  The book is well written and easy to read.  The failure to include any extended passages of text is a major flaw, however, and makes it impossible for this book to really capture the &quot;essence&quot; of the Talmud.	2002-04-15
US	52992798	R30LJ00SNCO671	188526688X	835824501	Unholy Sonnets	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Mostly Disappointing	I loved Jarman's previous book, &quot;Questions for Ecclesiastes,&quot; so I was looking forward to this one.  Although many people seem to be wildly impressed by the fact that Jarman is writing sonnets, it seemed to me that the form often detracted from the work, rather than adding to it.  Forced rhymes and stilted rhythms ruined more than one of these sonnets for me, and the relatively abbreviated form often seemed to cut short complex thoughts and ideas before Jarman had any real chance to explore them.  The poems that work best for me are the longer ones, usually composed of multiple stanzas in sonnet form.  Here, given enough space to let his thoughts breathe, Jarman not only has more to say, he also handles the form itself much more fluidly and flexibly.  &quot;The Word 'Answer'&quot; and &quot;The World&quot; are the long poems at the beginning and end of the book, and both are superb reflections on one's relationship to God and to grace.  The final sestet of &quot;The Word 'Answer'&quot; shows what Jarman is capable of when he doesn't get too caught up in the form:<br />  God, I am thinking of you now as snow,<br />  Descending like the answer to a prayer,<br />  This prayer that you will be made visible,<br />  Drifting and deepening, a dazzling, slow<br />  Acknowledgment, out of the freezing air,<br />  As dangerous as it is beautiful.<br />The rhymes are there, but they don't get in the way of the imagery, and the image here picks up on the previous imagery and language and thoughts of this poem.  What's good in this book is enough to make it worthwhile, but don't expect every page to take your breath away.	2002-03-28
US	52992798	RD9ZANVR6J4SW	1885266413	798531552	Questions for Ecclesiastes	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Explorations of Faith	These are wonderful poems, which ask questions of God, questions about faith, questions about the workings of grace and what it means to be holy.  Jarman manages to probe the paradoxes of faith in a deep but respectful way, without veering into either hostility, on the one hand, or an easy piety on the other.  &quot;Tranfiguration&quot; is a superb exploration of what it means for Christ -- for anyone -- to be subject to the law and to suffering, and how one can be transfigured by resistance to that fate.  &quot;Questions for Ecclesiastes&quot; is a devastating comment on how little consolation is provided by the Bible's &quot;wisdom&quot; in the face of real tragedy, in this case the suicide of a young girl.  &quot;And God . . . who could have shared what he knew with people who needed urgently to hear it, God kept a secret.&quot;  Jarman uses the English language beautifully, incorporating the rhythms and cadences of the King James even when not overtly using the language.  These are poems to savor and come back to again and again.	2002-03-28
US	52992798	R3AB175507DZ4B	0807826413	30650393	Myths of Venice: The Figuration of a State	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Iconography of the Venetian State	Functioning modern states have their own myths, stories (historical or otherwise) that illustrate the shared communal values that the state is believed to embody and wishes to project (to citizens and foreigners alike).  For Renaissance Venice, the myth was that of the Most Serene Republic, built on a perfect foundation of justice, peace and the rule of law, established as the Christian heir to pagan Rome and protected by the saints.  In this brief, elegant book, David Rosand shows how richly that political myth was embodied in the public art of the Venetian state, focusing on the paintings and sculpture of the Doge's Palace, the Loggetta of the Campanile, the Libreria di San Marco, and various of the scuola grande.  Rosand does a superb job of teasing out all of the multi-layered mythological meanings and allusions present in individual works and in the relationship of one work (or even one building) to another.  He also shows that these meanings, although not transparent to most visitors today, were easily understood by educated Venetians and foreigners (and recorded in their diaries and descriptions of the city) throughout the Renaissance.  I saw many things that I had not seen before, and will go back to these works with a new appreciation of their meaning and function.<br />This is not art criticism or art appreciation (there is barely a mention of anyone's technique or of aesthetic issues), it's real art history.  Rosand's goal is to show how the artwork he considers functioned to both present the Venetian state's self-image and to persuade viewers to accept that image.  Given Venice's important role as an early example of a modern state (one that viewed the state itself as an abstract concept, separate from the ruler, who is himself subject to the rule of law), we can still learn much from the methods that Venice used to envision and market itself.<br />Rosand writes for an educated audience, but is readily accessible to non-scholars.  He assumes a fair degree of familiarity with Venice -- if you do not know the Piazza from the the Piazzetta, or which facade of the Palace is the south one, you will occasionally find yourself confused.  Nor does he stop to explain in any detail the Venetian constitution or the organization of Venetian society.  This is a book to take with you on your second or third trip to Venice, or to read while planning such a trip.  It does not pretend to be comprehensive, but will give you a real insight into one of the many beautiful threads that make up this complex city.	2002-03-23
US	52992798	R3LHRRLNCAGI3S	0684823896	177905177	Being Jewish	Books	3	6	7	N	N	A Mixed Blessing	If you are looking for a solid overview of traditional Jewish ritual practice, this book is a good place to start. Goldman begins with the rituals that mark \\"life events\\" (birth, coming of age, wedding, death), then runs through the annual festival calendar, and finally turns to daily ritual acts, such as prayer, keeping kosher, hospitality toward guests, sex, charity, and Torah study. For each of these, Goldman essentially takes you through the traditional ritual from beginning to end (with some rituals described in more detail than others).<br />What I found disappointing was the narrowness of the focus. The subtitle of the book is \\"The Spiritual and Cultural Practice of Judaism Today,\\" but it really should have been \\"The Practice of Orthodox Judaism Today.\\" Although Goldman notes in passing where Conservative and Reform (and, very occasionally, Reconstructionist) Judaism differ from Orthodox practice, he plainly considers Orthodoxy to be the \\"real\\" Judaism. He claims that \\"you don't have to do it all\\" (26) and that he intends to show that all idiosyncratic practices (such as the man who eats his non-kosher ham and cheese sandwich on matzah during Passover) are \\"efforts to reach for the holy\\" (32). Yet what he is really asking is \\"why don't these people do more?\\" And his \\"hope\\" is to make (Orthodox) ritual more accessible, so that more people will make more of it part of their lives. (32-33) I don't mean to suggest that there is anything wrong with this goal; it's just that both the subtitle and the book jacket are misleading to the extent they suggest that this book celebrates the variety of spiritual experiences and practice within Judaism.<br />\\"Being Jewish\\" is also somewhat lacking in the \\"spiritual\\" aspect advertised in the subtitle. Given the amount of territory Goldman covers in only 280 pages, it's probably not surprising that the mechanical details of the rituals predominate. But only a few chapters (particularly those on the Sabbath and prayer) gave meany sense of the spiritual experience that one might find in these rituals.<br />Last but not least, I remain troubled by a statement in the last chapter of the book, concerning the study of Torah. Goldman describes the Orthodox approach as treating both the Written and the Oral Torah as the revealed word of God, and the act of studying as an act of devotion. He then describes the \\"historical and critical\\" approach to the texts taken by the non-Orthodox rabbinical seminaries, and concludes that \\"You cannot both critique and fully revere texts at the same time.\\" (259-60) (To be fair, Goldman also notes that the \\"faith-based approach\\" often flies in the face of historical fact.) This conclusion, that critique and reverence are fundamentally at odds, seems to me to be symptomatic of Goldman's attitude throughout the book. If you define \\"fully revere\\" as \\"accept uncritically,\\" then of course reverence and critique are mutually incompatible. What Goldman fails to acknowledge (here and elsewhere) is that there may be other ways to \\"fully revere\\" the text (or to respect traditions and rituals) that have the same spiritual impact for particular individuals as traditional observance plainly has for Goldman.	2002-03-20
US	52992798	RWF9LT27EKF4C	0671605968	364964609	Back To The Sources: Reading the Classic Jewish Texts	Books	4	145	145	N	N	Excellent introduction to classic texts	\\"Back to the Sources\\" provides a superb introduction to the classic Jewish texts:  the Bible, Talmud, Midrash, medieval Bible commentaries (legal codes are discussed in the chapter on Talmud), medieval philosophical works, Zohar and other kabbalistic works, Hasidic teachings, and the prayer book.  Each chapter is written by a different scholar, who is an expert in the text or texts at hand.  All of the authors write clearly for non-experts and provide superb guidance, whether you are planning to start reading the texts or simply want to know more about them.  Each chapter ends with helpful suggestions for further reading (although these are now somewhat out of date, since the book was published in 1984).<br />There is an interesting divide half way through the book:  the first four chapters (on Bible, Talmud, Midrash and commentaries) focus on the literary characteristics of those texts: how they are organized, how style contributes to meaning, what knowledge they assume, how to read them, and so on.  Each chapter does an excellent job of walking you through an extended passage of the text under consideration.  Other than these analyses of particular passages, however, there is no systematic attempt to discuss or summarize the content of the work, much less consider its meaning or impact.<br />The last four chapters, on the other hand (covering philosophy, kabbala, Hasidic teaching and the Siddur), are much more focused on content, on what the texts are saying and what impact that has had in the development of Judaism.  These chapters still include close-reading of significant passages of text, but they also provide extraordinarily helpful overviews of what these texts, as a whole, are trying to accomplish.  The chapters on medieval philosophy and kabbala are particularly good -- even if I never get around to studying these texts, I now feel like I have a reasonably good grasp of what they are about.<br />I would recommend this book to anyone with an interest in these texts or in Jewish intellectual history, even if you have no plans to study the texts themselves.	2002-03-17
US	52992798	R1D9IS9EJ4DG2T	0374272387	927747216	The Talmud and the Internet: A Journey Between Worlds	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Learning To Live With Uncertainty	Is uncertainty (or ambiguity, loss, exile, conflicting inheritances, conflicting traditions, multiple interpretations, contradictory information) something to eliminate and overcome, or something we should learn to live with and even celebrate?  In this short meditation on the relevance of the Talmud in the modern world (despite the title, this is *not* a book about the Internet, which is only touched on briefly as emblematic of the confusions of modern life), Jonathan Rosen shows us that ambiguity, loss and conflict are ancient issues, and that not only can we live with them, we can even find a kind of freedom and creative energy in the process.  Rosen gives his ruminations immediacy by exploring the different cultural strains to which he is heir:  the grandmother who lived a long and comfortable life in America, the grandmother who perished in the Holocaust, the monolithic Western culture that Rosen identifies with Henry Adams and T.S. Eliot, the Jewish culture of elusive words, whispered to the child in the womb and forgotten at birth.  The process of learning from these contradictions, of living with uncertainty, becomes a goal in itself, connecting us to prior generations of strugglers, and giving us a kind of rootedness (a \\"homepage\\") in the midst of chaos.<br />Rosen makes many unexpected connections in this beautifully written book (how many people would think to compare Henry Adams' attitude toward Chartes with the rabbis' attitude toward the Temple?).  Although loss is a major motif (the death of his grandmothers, the destruction of the Temple), and the tone is elegiac, Rosen does not leave us without hope.  If we cannot answer all questions, perhaps it is enough that we try:  as Rosen quotes from \\"Pirke Avot,\\" \\"It is not your duty to complete the work; neither are you free to desist from it.\\"  I know that I will come back to this book again in my own struggles with the uncertainties of life.	2002-03-03
US	52992798	R1HN5DSC19SPDF	0313202753	780803719	Folk Elements in Burmese Buddhism.	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Interesting but disjointed	This book originated as a series of lectures that were given at various times over a period of years, which probably explains why I came away feeling that I had been provided with lots of interesting anecdotes, but very little analysis, very few connections, and no attempt whatsoever to be thorough. There is a good bit of interesting information here about Burmese alchemy and magic, the ritual of the nine gods, initiation rites, and the stories of the nats (powerful Burmese ancestor spirit). U Htin Aung is a native, obviously well informed and has some interesting thoughts about the origins of the practices he describes. But at the end I felt like I had a few random observations, and very little else.	2002-02-25
US	52992798	R1JCDU8VENIKA7	0375707573	922846085	The Beauty of the Husband: A Fictional Essay in 29 Tangos	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Love Hurts	Anne Carson has written a beautiful book of poems/tangoes that somehow tell the story of a marriage without actually telling a story.  We have fully realized moments, conversations (Carson writes amazing poetic conversations, here and in her other works), events -- without all the connections in between.  And yet these moments are woven together, internally and from one tango to the next, with language used as the steps of a dance, providing motifs and figures that carry the reader from one page to the next.  Dance, games, rules, war, the rules of war, love, beauty, truth, lies and betrayal -- all of these themes run in and out of the complicated pattern of steps.  The technique always serves the lyric, however, and we never lose sight of the feelings Carson wishes to evoke.  You feel the separate pains of each betrayal (her betrayal of her mother, the not-yet-husband's failure to appear for their wedding, his first infidelity, each subsequent lie), but despite the pain there is no bitterness in this book -- in fact, Carson's final advice is to &quot;hold beauty.&quot;  Just as you cannot tell the tale of the lover without telling the tale of the beloved (as the final poem ironically suggests), so, perhaps, you cannot have love, beauty and truth without their opposites.  Carson, plainly, is on the side of beauty.	2002-02-24
US	52992798	RWEG2MU4EIHIU	0500200602	243484464	The Art of Southeast Asia: Cambodia Vietnam Thailand Laos Burma Java Bali (World of Art)	Books	3	33	33	N	N	The Good, The Bad and The Ugly	The Good -- Covers a lot of territory in a short space.  Rawson points out the most important features of the most significant works, and traces artistic developments leading up to them.  For each country, Rawson provides a brief historical overview, running from the earliest known history through the the periods of (in his view) the most significant artistic acheivements.  This overview is surprisingly helpful in trying to understand the significance that the works (particularly the monuments) had in the societies in which they were created.  Rawson also makes some insightful comments about how religious doctrines have shaped artistic development.  If you are going to Southeast Asia, this book will give you a basic idea of what to look for.  If you are beginning a serious study of Southeast Asian art, this will give you an overview and a context in which to place further studies.<br />The Bad -- Covers a lot of territory in a short space.  As a result, Rawson cannot mention much more than universally acknowledged masterpieces.  With the exception of one modern Indonesian painter and a few 14th Century Thai bronzes, one would gather from Rawson that art stopped in Southeast Asia about 1200.  This book was originally published in 1967, and a number of Rawson's opinions and his general attitude seem somewhat out of date.  Rawson does not like his buildings &quot;overly&quot; decorated, which seems to me a matter of taste -- a taste clearly not shared by most of the societies he describes.  He provides almost no description of the &quot;craft&quot; arts, and very little cross-cultural comparison.<br />The Ugly -- The photographs of the architectural monuments are almost all atrocious.  It's conceivable that these were the best available in 1967, but Thames &amp; Hudson should have done something to update them when they reprinted the book in 1993.  In addition to simply upgrading the quality of the photographs, some of the monuments have been significantly restored inthe intervening years, so more modern pictures would also provide a better of idea of what the buildings were intended to look like.  Worst of all, a number of the photographs are split over 2 pages -- the binding down the middle makes it almost impossible to get a decent look at the picture without breaking the book's back.	2001-12-19
US	52992798	R1244H1CMA2G0W	0500974837	855682573	Shwedagon: Golden Pagoda of Myanmar	Books	4	5	5	N	N	An Odd But Beautiful Mishmash	This book has many wonderful elements, but could have used a good editor to pull those elements together into some kind of meaningful whole.  The first 100 pages are photographs of the Shwedagon pagoda itself, the surrounding shrines and images in the pagoda complex, and people worshipping.  The pictures themselves are generally wonderful (although a few are out of focus).  This photographic section is described as a &quot;circumambulation&quot; of the pagoda, but the pictures do not appear to be in any particular order and jump back and forth confusingly from one side of the pagoda platform to the other.  Two pictures of the same shrine may be 25 pages apart.  Moreover, the captions often presume knowledge that the reader may not have unless he has skipped ahead and read the text portion of the book.<br />Following the initial photographic section is a 50-page section of text titled &quot;Shwedagon:  Its History and Architecture.&quot;  This section is also liberally illustrated with photographs, including some from the late 19th or early 20th centuries.  The historical information is actually quite brief and the architectural information almost non-existent.  Instead, most of this section provides background on Buddhism, the various not-strictly-Buddhist religious practices that are also enshrined on the pagoda platform, and other information helpful to the visitor trying to understand what they are seeing and what is happening at the pagoda.  Lots of interesting material here, but it's badly organized and often introduces a topic only to drop it with little real explanation.  (For example, the author states that &quot;An intricate system that has little or nothing to do with linear time has determined the location of shrines,&quot; but then gives no suggestion as to what that system is, except that it is not &quot;astrology.&quot;)<br />A third section of about 20 pages provides additional information about Theravada Buddhist beliefs and practice, and the significance of the Shwedagon to practicing Buddhists.  Though quite brief, this section contains illuminating and moving descriptions of the role of giving in Burmese Buddhism and the power of meditating at the Shwedagon.  Unfortunately, because it is so short, this section can only hint at the interesting issues raised by the apparent conflicts between Buddhist theory and Burmese practice.<br />I am giving the book 4 stars mostly for the photographs, which are beautiful and which provide a range of images that I have not seen elsewhere.  The text itself cannot take the place of a good guidebook, although it does provide supplemental information and (in the final section) a different perspective.	2001-12-02
US	52992798	R3RZR5QISGFTQ5	0802137601	697026545	Louise in Love	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Difficult But Rewarding	Not an easy read, and not something you can pick up, put down, read a few pages and come back to a day or two later.  Ms. Bang has a unique voice and way with words -- you need to read a few of the poems before you get a sense of what's going on, and then you need to go back and reread what you've already done before you can continue.  Even with concentrated reading and re-reading, I felt that I was getting only brief glimpses of Louise and her world.  But the glimpses are often beautiful, and after a while they start to cohere into patterns of images, feelings, atmospheres, the outline of a narrative.  There are enough exquisite turns of phrase (&quot;His mouth was the yes that was wished on&quot;) to make the journey worthwhile, as it seems to be for Louise and her companions, even if the destination is obscure.	2001-11-24
US	52992798	R2ID1UU6O2HD2J	1585730017	166433021	Insight Guide Burma/Myanmar (Insight Guides)	Books	5	17	22	N	N	Beautiful &amp; Useful	Insight Guides are generally worth buying for the pictures alone, and the Burma/Myanmar volume is no exception.  Background sections are generally good, although there is not much on Buddhism or nat worship (these topics are filled out more in connection with individual sites, however).  Covers the entire country (unlike the Odyssey guide).  Although it is sometimes a little dry, this guide manages to convey virtually all of the facts you will need about each place you visit, along with the associated mythology, significance of the site, and so on.	2001-11-18
US	52992798	R2MQPHRUKV8NHE	9622176089	682482333	Burma (Myanmar, Odyssey Guides)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Excellent Overall Guide to Burma &amp; Major Sites	Excellent background sections covering basic history, the religious lives of the Burmese, festivals, theater and music.  Guide emphasizes Yangon (Rangoon), Mandalay and Bagan (Pagan), and their immediate environs -- if you are traveling more off the beaten path, you need the Insight Guide, which also has more and better pictures.  Strong on the &quot;flavor&quot; of the country, particularly the last Burmese empire and the colonial years.	2001-11-18
US	52992798	R1XNUK4IV6HSGX	0684825260	553015885	God Was Not in the Fire	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Help on the Spiritual Path	Rabbi Gordis describes this book as an attempt to answer the question, &quot;Why be Jewish?&quot;  But the question he really addresses is, &quot;Can living a traditional Jewish life of study, prayer, ritual and mitzvah lead one to a spiritual life that is meaningful in today's world?&quot;  To this question, his answer is a resounding &quot;yes,&quot; and he is largely successful in describing how traditional Jewish practices can lead one to the sense of connectedness and commitment -- here equated with spirituality -- often missing in our lives.  His approach is largely psychological:  study validates our struggles to believe; ritual takes us away from the mundane world; keeping kosher brings an aspect of spiritual discipline into the mundane world.  Although this approach has inherent limitations -- the persuasiveness of some of his arguments may lie in the psyche of the individual reader -- it is well-suited to his target audience of people who are already seeking a deeper Jewish spirituality.<br />If you are looking for a book that demonstrates that the prayer services, rituals, study and observance of the mitzvot really can lead you to a more spiritual life, then you have come to the right place.  Rabbi Gordis is eloquent in his belief that traditional Jewish practice can provide spiritual sustenance.  If that thought is a sufficient reason for you to &quot;be Jewish,&quot; then you will find that Rabbi Gordis has also answered the first question posed above.  The problem for me, however, is that Rabbi Gordis does not really address why it should be *Jewish* study, prayer, ritual and discipline that leads one to spirituality.  Most of the arguments Rabbi Gordis provides apply equally, at least in general terms, to other religions I have studied.  Prayer, ritual, discipline and ethics, in one form or another, are shared by Judaism, Christianity, Islam, Hinduism and Buddhism.  Why one should adopt *Jewish* forms of spirituality -- and what sets Jewish forms apart from other religions -- are questions not addressed in this book.<br />Rabbi Gordis includes a *very* helpful section of &quot;Suggestions for Further Reading,&quot; which is arranged by the themes covered in each chapter and provides a brief comment on each of the books, instead of just the usual unadorned list.t from other religions -- are questions not addressed in this book.<br />Rabbi Gordis includes a *very* helpful section of &quot;Suggestions for Further Reading,&quot; which is arranged by the themes covered in each chapter and provides a brief comment on each of the books, instead of just the usual unadorned list.	2001-11-05
US	52992798	RR7G4ZFE3SEKC	1580230288	618160284	The Way Into Torah	Books	4	9	9	N	N	If All Sermons Were This Good . . .	As others have noted, The Way Into Torah provides a very accessible introduction to Torah study.  Dr. Cohen does a masterful job of explaining basic terms and concepts without talking down to the reader, and covers quite a bit of material in this rather short book.  I have only one complaint.  Although Dr. Cohen acknowledges that the Torah consists of much more than the Chumash (and uses the Midrash Rabbah extensively throughout the book), he barely mentions the two extra-biblical works that have been at the heart of Torah study for centuries -- the Mishnah and the Talmud.  Perhaps the decision to more or less ignore the Talmud was based on a judgment that beginners should begin with the more familiar, and in some sense &quot;easier,&quot; Chumash.  If that judgment was made, however, I would have liked to have seen it spelled out in the text, with at least enough information provided about the Talmud to whet the student's appetite for more.<br />Nevertheless, if you are considering starting out on a program of Torah study, this is an excellent place to get your bearings.  Dr. Cohen not only provides the basic information you need, but also explains why Torah study is important and how it can transform our lives.  His love of Torah study comes across on every page, and he succeeds in making the reader want to share that experience.  If all sermons were this good, you would already be studying Torah and wouldn't need this book.  Until that day comes, this book ably fills the gap in both information and inspiration.	2001-09-26
US	52992798	R3AG7ZBCNZEPPR	187904529X	120434814	The Last Trial: On the Legends and Lore of the Command to Abraham to Offer Isaac as a Sacrifice (Jewish Lights Classic Reprint)	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Fascinating study of the Akedah (Binding of Isaac)	In this fascinating book, Spiegel traces rabbinic interpretations of the Akedah (the Binding of Isaac) from the earliest sources through the Middle Ages.  He begins at the end, with the remarkable fact that during the Middle Ages, European Jews looked to Isaac as a martyr, the prototypical sacrifice and an inspiration to those Jews who killed themselves rather than convert to Christianity under the threat of the Crusaders.  Despite the plain language of Scripture -- in which God ultimately tells Abraham *not* to sacrifice (or even harm) Isaac -- many aggadic interpretations suggested that Isaac was actually sacrificed and then brought back to life.  In the 12th century rabbinic poem that inspired this book, Isaac is actually killed (and resurrected) *twice.*  Spiegel asks how medieval interpretation of the Akedah could have strayed so far from the plain meaning of Scripture, and in particular whether the theme of the redemptive sacrifice of the first born should be traced to Christian influence.  Spiegel looks to rabbinic, Christian and pagan sources to try to answer these questions.<br />This is a scholarly work and assumes familiarity with classical rabbinic literature.  Some arguments are hard to follow if you do not know the generations of the Tannaim; and if you've never read any midrash, you will find the style very hard going at first.  Even so, as a non-scholar with only a beginner's knowledge of rabbinic literature, I felt that I got a lot out of the book, particularly in terms of the history of ideas and the contrasts between Jewish, Christian and pagan notions of sacrifice, redemption and ancestral merit.	2001-09-09
US	52992798	R24XF3PI2ZVNNM	0802846335	670834441	Invitation to the Apocrypha	Books	3	13	18	N	N	Cliff's Notes For The Apocrypha	The Apocrypha are 16 books (or parts of books) contained in and accepted as canonical in one or more Christian Bibles (Roman Catholic, Orthodox or Slavonic), but not contained in the Hebrew Bible.  (The Roman Catholic apocryphal works are often printed in Protestant Bibles, but are identified as the Apocrypha and are not considered canonical.)<br />Harrington provides a concise introduction to each of the books in the Apocrypha.  For each book, he provides a one or two page summary of scholarship on the historical origins and themes of the text.  He then summarizes the text itself.  Finally, he gives a *very* brief indication of the &quot;significance&quot; of the text -- what theological issues does it address, what concerns has it raised for commentators, what influence has it had (both for Christians and for Jews).<br />The summaries of the texts account for 80% or more of the book, and while the summaries help identify themes and structure, they add very little to the texts themselves.  I found the book disappointing, because I was looking for more depth on the historical background and subsequent significance of the Apocrypha.  If you are looking for a very basic, short introduction to these texts, however, this book fits the bill.	2001-09-09
US	52992798	RE0SGUDLN1VKX	0813334063	177595043	Rereading The Rabbis: A Woman's Voice (Radical Traditions S)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Mostly Convincing Defense of the Rabbis	Rabbinic Judaism reflects and reinforces a patriarchal society, giving men greater legal rights and religious roles than those allowed to women.  Hauptman acknowledges this, but sets out to prove that *within this context,* the Rabbis of the Talmud are suprisingly liberal towards women, extending to them greater rights and protections than one might expect (and certainly more than the Torah requires).<br />In large part, Hauptman succeeds in her project.  The discussions of Sotah (the test for unfaithful wives), marriage, divorce, rape and inheritance are particular successful in demonstrating a gradual change in favor of women.  In other chapters, where Hauptman is trying to explain or justify rabbinic attitudes in themselves (without the comparison to Torah), she is less successful.  For example, Hauptman argues that the rabbinic laws restricting women's ability to provide testimony in court and limiting their participation in religious rituals are *not* based on a misogynist view of women as defective, stupid, or untrustworthy.  Instead, she argues that these rules are based on women's lower social status.  &quot;You can't testify against a man, even though you're likely to be honest, because you're socially inferior&quot; does not seem to me like much of an improvement over &quot;you can't testify because women are stupid, flighty and likely to lie.&quot;  I found these chapters interesting, but ultimately unpersuasive.<br />Hauptman writes clearly and does a good job of providing context for non-scholars.  The early chapters are easier to follow and therefore provide a good introduction if you are not a Talmudic scholar.  Although not an easy read, I would say this is book is accessible to anyone who is willing to take the time to follow Hauptman's arguments and think them through.	2001-09-09
US	52992798	R1VAA1YXKJ9DZE	0374227748	874707360	Islam's Black Slaves: The Other Black Diaspora	Books	3	19	21	N	N	Important But Ultimately Unsatisfying	Segal has done an impressive job of marshalling important and relatively unknown facts about the eastern slave trade.  Unfortunately, he never seems to go anywhere with these facts, or suggest what we are to make of them.<br />The facts are that Islamic Arabs and Africans ran a significant slave trade for many centuries throughout the Mediterranean, North and East Africa, Arabia, the Middle East, and Northern India.  Muslim masters possibly treated their slaves &quot;better&quot; on average than American or other Western colonial masters did, although this seems to have had less to do with religion than with the purposes for which slaves were employed -- as domestics, soldiers and business assistants in the Islamic world, as opposed to agricultural laborers in the West.  The process of enslavement was just as cruel, however, whether the destination was the Eastern slave markets or the Atlantic trade.  Islam accepted slavery as a fact of life for conquered non-believers (ignoring the fact that many of those enslaved were in fact Muslims) and therefore perhaps had less need than the Christian West to invent a demeaning racist mythology to justify continuing slavery.  (As the title indicates, Segal is interested in *black* slaves, and therefore largely ignores the substantial number of Eastern European and Middle Asiatic slaves who were &quot;employed&quot; in the Ottoman and some other Muslim states.)  Neverthless, racism did eventually enter the Islamic world, with effects (and slavery) that can still be seen today in places like Sudan and Mauritania.<br />What should we learn from these facts?  The book's title suggests that it is in some way a commentary on Islam, but that point is never really developed in the text.  In early chapters, Segal suggests that slavery in the Islamic world was less racially charged than in the West -- but a great deal of his book, particularly the later chapters addressing the contemporary situation in Sudan and Mauritania, contradictsthat view.  The history of Islamic African and Arab slavery undoubtedly explains a great deal about contemporary issues in Africa and the Middle East, yet the book is too short to really draw out these connections.  As others have noted, the final chapter on America's black Muslim movement seems to have little connection with the rest of the book, other than to point out that the Nation of Islam's racist attitude toward whites is incompatible with the Koran (as, of course, is Arab racism toward blacks, and just as white racism is incompatible with Christian doctrine).  In sum, lots of information, but little meaningful analysis.	2001-09-09
US	52992798	R30W2MN9ALHYWV	0374276862	820344695	The Throne of Labdacus	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Stunning!	A sad, beautiful meditation on fate, the power of music and poetry to express (even to call into being) the otherwise inexpressible, and the limits on the power of words (&quot;the stunned silence at the heart of the text&quot;) and of the gods (&quot;What are the gods, who can't repair such things?&quot;).  Schnackenberg somehow makes us forget about Freud, and refocuses our attention on the initial horror of Oedipus' story -- a child conceived in defiance of the oracle, then maimed and left on a hillside to die.  Images, sounds and lines of text recur and modulate throughout the book, imitating lyrically the web of fate that binds both Apollo and the children of Labdacus.  A stunning achievement!	2001-09-09
US	52992798	R1W4M82HNNCMOC	0664220932	527709335	Esther (1997) (Old Testament Library)	Books	3	10	11	N	N	The Bible As Literature	Levenson's book consists of two parts -- an introductory essay of 35 pages, followed by a line-by-line commentary on the text of Esther.  The introductory essay provides a good overview of the book of Esther -- a summary of the plot, an analysis of the book's structure and themes, and a discussion of the historicity and origins of the various versions of text itself.  Esther is famous as the only book in the Bible that does not mention God (at least in the canonical Hebrew version); I found Levenson's discussion of the politics and theology of this &quot;godless&quot; Esther particularly interesting.  He does a very good job (in both the introduction and the line-by-line commentary) of alerting the reader to differences between the Masoretic and Septuagint versions of the text.<br />The line-by-line commentary was disappointing.  It did not add much to the introduction (although it did elucidate some of the themes in more detail).  Levenson has studied the recent scholarly commentary on Esther, and a great deal of his commentary seemed to be citations of (or, in some cases, reaction to) other people's thoughts.  Most of the discussion focuses on Esther as a literary work.  I would have liked to have learned more about how the book was treated by the rabbis and by early Christian commentators.  Overall, however, Levenson has provided a decent introduction to the book of Esther and the major concerns of modern literary scholarship concerning it.	2001-09-09
