US	53009403	R28WM047FPGOGU	0595300243	818310367	Amata Means Beloved	Books	2	11	17	N	Y	Wonderful theme - dreadful writing	The struggle with forgiveness which Sr Amata encounters is a deep, moving idea. Yet the writing in this book is very poor. Both the conversations and the descriptive paragraphs reminded me of a children's book. I suppose the crude vernacular the nuns employ is supposed to be natural (Marigolds? Yuck, they stink!), but I found it very trying.<br /><br />The author clearly tries to incorporate varied elements: showing how all nuns struggle with selfishness and weakness; caring for others in the community; the varied paths to the contemplative vocation. It does not work in a book this slender. One is left with a brief reference, but no depth.<br /><br />It is unfortunate that a theme which could have been very powerful is clouded by the folksy language and lack of character development. About all one knows of the main character - let alone the other nuns - is why she fears ringing the bell. The instant healing as she finally does so does not ring true, either.	2005-09-14
US	53009403	RPELTRSTN6LA8	B0007NLUX6	858491940	The Confessions of St. Augustine	Books	3	11	12	N	Y	Five stars as a gift book, three or less for study	The translation is glorious, the illustrations perfectly beautiful - overall, this edition of the Confessions is a lovely gift. However, this edition contains only excerpts from the Confessions, not the full text. It would not be valuable for class or research use, though it would appeal to those wishing to meditate on key passages.<br /><br />Please note that my review refers to the Bargain Price Hardcover edition, not to the Chadwick translation itself, which is excellent for research use.	2005-09-10
US	53009403	R6E22MIQ1INPR	0778320286	460258417	Changing Habits	Books	1	3	8	N	N	Interesting premise - poorly written and developed	Had there been an in-depth treatment of the motives, situations, and dispositions of the four characters, the premise of this novel could have been intriguing. Unfortunately, the characters are quite one-dimensional, and the situations not treated with any depth. The general effect is of a poor play.<br /><br />The attraction to convent life is peripheral in all of the subjects, and they do not ultimately confront true convictions or their own motives. The odd effect is of women in young adulthood (all leave the convent while still in their twenties) who are shaken by confronting troubling situations, common in some form to any adult life, and who find some vague solution merely by departing from convent life. The two who marry seem childish and impulsive in the choice (one drawn by a handsome face and the idea that she's got the man to return to church, the other suddenly contemplating marriage to her spiritual advisor, who cannot deal with having a homosexual priest in his parish) - though, at the end, there is a sense of 'happily ever after, one as Catholic, the other renegade.'<br /><br />Though Macomber writes of an era when convent life was in tumult, neither the overall situation nor a directly related conflict in the lives of the Sisters is treated. The Sister who is unjustly accused of 'doctoring the books' for her own advantage, and the other who blames herself for a student's having a back alley abortion, seem to be running from their first look at tragic but common parts of life. The reader seems to be told that the Sisters are departing from an unfair Church, yet incidents such as these are never developed as quite common paths to mature knowledge of oneself.<br /><br />The 'fudged' ending has no resolution or purpose. We learn that they have no regret for having been nuns, yet still cannot see what drew them to the life or how leaving was the answer to their problems.<br /><br />The deficiencies in plot, theme (if indeed there is one), and characterisation are all the more unfortunate because a premise such as this could have been fascinating. The potential for reflecting history, exploring spiritual and psychological aspects, and treating of the complexity of human nature was ignored. We are left with one-dimensional characters who cannot even consider the larger picture of their own community.racterisation are all the more unfortunate because a premise such as this could have been fascinating. The potential for reflecting history, exploring spiritual and psychological aspects, and treating of the complexity of human nature was ignored. We are left with one-dimensional characters who cannot even consider the larger picture of their own community.	2005-06-03
US	53009403	R38XH8RFXU7MQA	1400050553	600163394	The Silence We Keep: A Nun's View of the Catholic Priest Scandal	Books	1	14	26	N	N	Purely a 'hymn to Her'	There not only is no coherent 'whole' here - the individual parts add up to nothing. Jackowski strings together purely anecdotal reflections, with no hint of scholarly justification, to the effect that sisters (especially non-canonical ones) are guided by the Holy Spirit, where the men are hypocrites and failures.<br /><br />One receives a dim, never-developed picture of oppressive and scandalous priests, as if there were nothing positive to be said for the priesthood or males in general. The references to sisters, which seem based entirely on what Jackowski has discussed with people she knows, are a string of feminist exercises in self-esteem, interwoven with references to pagan customs and goddesses.<br /><br />This book is totally devoid of scholarly merit or intellectual insight. It does not even treat of the supposed topic. I'm surprised it ever was published.	2005-06-02
US	53009403	R8TA5F1MT5C1Z	0316161845	930015134	The Keys of the Kingdom	Books	5	53	54	N	N	Superb treatment of human nature and the complexity of faith	It is amazing how A. J. Cronin, under the guise of a simple tale of one humble priest, weaves a complex picture of varied matters related to faith - and, in the process, unfolds a frank and intriguing look at viewpoints and problems within the Catholic Church. Francis, the main character, is far from being a theologian - he accepts his priestly vocation and then just lives it. (That sounds simple - but it is a rare approach.) Yet his questions about doctrine, authority, and the like, never defiant but born of true confusion about intolerance, are those which have haunted many a devout believer.<br /><br />It could be difficult today for new readers to grasp the hateful prejudice which gripped many Protestants and Catholics in Scotland of the era. As one example of the insight Cronin expresses in the character of Francis, the question, as a seminarian, of why creed would determine salvation when it was usually an accident of birth, was pressing and unanswered.<br /><br />Those who have a pretty picture of the seeming calm within the pre-conciliar church would do well to see the frank honesty which Cronin employs in this tale. Characters include a vain and self-centred bishop; a young woman who apparently commits suicide to avoid being forced into a marriage after incest causes a pregnancy; an hysteric who convinces herself that she has seen a vision of Mary; a religious superior who burns with pride and haughtiness. There is no bitterness or ugliness in Cronin's portrayal, but there is a vivid picture of the complexity of human nature and of faith.<br /><br />Cronin is unhesitatingly realistic about the 'rice Christian' approaches which were not uncommon during the period. Of course, Francis' luck is a bit over the top - yet the message comes through that the Chinese would respect a man of honour even if they could not embrace his faith.<br /><br />I would highly recommend this book from both a literary and historical perspective.	2005-03-21
US	53009403	RL0SHZBFILFV9	0316161756	128752668	A Pocketful of Rye	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Rather disappointing as a sequel	As a long-time fan of A. J. Cronin's work, I found this particular novel not to be of the quality of most. Normally, his writing had a richness and depth of expression which was enchanting in itself, much as his plots tend to be rather melodramatic. In this case, whether because of editing or seeking to sound more modern, the beauty of his language was compromised.<br /><br />Though ostensibly this work was a sequel to \\"A Song of Sixpence,\\" it was rather disappointing in that regard. The main character remains Laurence Carroll, but he is totally changed in character, the action has skipped ahead (Laurence is perhaps ten years older, but the setting is at least 30 years in advance), and there is practically no continuity with the first book. Aside from a brief mention of his winning a bursary (which happened at the conclusion of A Song of Sixpence), and a very vague reference to his deceased parents, none of the incidents of the first book, nor the vividly drawn characters about whom I had hoped to learn more, appear.<br /><br />It is a good 'train book,' entertaining enough in itself, but of inferior quality to what one would normally expect from Cronin. The only hint of Cronin's usual depth is in the powerful \\"Hound of Heaven\\" obsession - which I shall not mention in depth lest it be a spoiler.	2005-03-21
US	53009403	R1P7U9B0459L5Y	034546821X	195779062	I Ain't Much, Baby--But I'm All I've Got: Turn the Corner into a More Beautiful Life-Five Minutes at a Time	Books	3	19	23	N	Y	I would have rated it a 5 thirty years ago	Jess's presentation is one of the most realistic, compassionate treatments of human nature and relationships which I have seen. His stress on being genuine, and on the deep human need for love, is superb.<br /><br />Where Jess fails is in treating the examples, mostly from his classroom experience, as if the approach he outlines is strictly 'cause and effect.' During the 1970s, when a new generation was exploring being 'open' as opposed to using the conventions of conversation from the past, yet the 'self help' culture had not yet arisen, his approach seemed close to revolutionary. However, reactions other than those of one grateful for love are never presented as possible - and, indeed, one may find that is exactly what one receives.<br /><br />For example, Jess, whose emphasis on our need to be loved is probably the most honest statement of the century, gives an example of a nurse who phoned her former supervisor, to whom she was grateful, to say 'I love you.' The happy tears of the supervisor are moving - but let no one expect that this was inevitable. Indeed, some people are ill at ease when told of love by close friends.<br /><br />Regrettably, the current 'self help' culture could spoil the effect of much of Jess's advice. The warmth and affection he suggests could be taken today for a 'violation of boundaries,' or be feared as a technique of manipulation (much as it is not.)<br /><br />I found Jess's treatment of sex to be wonderfully healthy and refreshing, yet things have changed there as well. He gives an example of a wonderful man he knew who complimented a lady on her figure (saying she had the nicest breasts he had seen), and her wholesome acceptance of this. Indeed, an excellent attitude is shown here - but a man;s compliments on a woman's figure could be<br />taken, however wrongly, for some sort of harrassment today.<br />The book can be valuable, but with the caveat that the reader must use it with discrimination.	2005-02-23
US	53009403	R1QOAJPDUBJTJH	157959512X	643938397	Low-Carb Meals in Minutes	Books	2	8	8	N	N	Very limited application	The recipes in this book are not suitable for those on Atkins diet (with which I was able to lose over 30% of my weight in a year, then maintain the loss for five years ), nor for those who have substantial amounts of weight to lose. Gassenheimer, for example, makes it appear that one should be at a high carbohydrate intake (presumably, at goal weight) within six weeks, and the 75 grams of carbs allowed in the middle section are far beyond the level at which most could expect any significant weight loss. There are huge amounts of grains included - which are far from low carbohydrate, only high in fibre. Atkins dieters, and those on other truly low carb programmes, would not have grains on their 'ongoing weight loss menus' at all.<br /><br />One must use this book with discrimination, and not accept the author's statements as gospel, because they are heavily flavoured by varied sources. For example, regarding main dishes, the protein portions are far too small for most, and would prevent the appetite reduction that is critical for low carb dieting to be successful (unless one is seeking to lose very little.) The ingredients include many grains, and grain products are not suited for low carb dieters unless they are at 'maintenance' level. Gassenheimer recommends all low-fat ingredients, and lists, for example, that one may have 'as many as four eggs a week,' when truly low carb programmes have no such restrictions. In fact, for Atkins dieters, the low fat items can hinder weight loss.<br /><br />The recipes are no worse than those in many low carb cookbooks, though they are hardly gourmet treats. But what is key is that dieters must consult the guidelines of the specific programme they follow, and by no means increase carb counts in such a short period if they wish to succeed.<br /><br />This book is suited to those who want to drop perhaps five to ten pounds, with an approach that is 'low carb' only by contrast with the ADA food pyramid, not in actuality. One could lose four to ten times as much weight on a truly low carb programme.much weight on a truly low carb programme.	2005-02-18
US	53009403	R2XYAHTBU867MB	0670033448	9843603	The Inner Circle	Books	2	2	8	N	N	Well below the level one would expect of this author	I doubt this book ever would have been published had it not been for Kinsey's being a popular subject at the moment. Though the writing does capture a sense of what it may have been like to be involved with Kinsey's research, there is little enhancement of the facts which one may see on any site about Kinsey.<br /><br />The characters are poorly drawn, dialogue very weak. What I had thought would be an interesting and well-developed piece of characerisation and plot grew boring very quickly.	2005-02-18
US	53009403	R3S9JGSI0KFUSU	1400030617	739073124	Simple Justice: The History of Brown v. Board of Education and Black America's Struggle for Equality	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Extraordinary piece of social and historical research	Kluger's gripping study covers overall situations, legislation, attitudes, and test cases dating back a century before the case which is listed in the title. As a result of this comprehensive treatment, one may fully grasp the complex, puzzling, and often chilling elements of the history of the struggle for equality.	2005-01-28
US	53009403	R13I3A71M4OPXI	1931412065	909566714	500 Low-Carb Recipes: 500 Recipes, from Snacks to Dessert, That the Whole Family Will Love	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Best low carb cookbook I have seen	As a confirmed 'low carber' for years now (and years after the constant ravenous hunger of the low fat route), I am delighted with the honesty and variety of this gem of a book. The introduction itself should be a primer for all new to the low carb way. Dana, who is not dealing with theories but the personal reality of 'low carbing,' provides a vivid and entertaining treatment of the value of low carb diets and the need to accept that one is 'low carb for life.' (I mention this, in particular, because there is a popular and dangerous assumption that 'low carb' is a temporary programme. No wonder that it is incorrectly thought to be a failure.)<br /><br />The recipes, though not on a par with gourmet cooking, are superior to, and easier to prepare than, others I have seen in books for the low carb market. They do not require exotic, expensive ingredients in most cases, nor, as with some other books in this genre, are they a veiled advertisement for exclusive mixes and other products.<br /><br />I am hoping Dana writes yet another book, and that there are a few additions. This book has a disproportionate amount of space devoted to snacks, desserts, and starters, where many of us low carbers have little need for these. I should like to see more main dishes - though a number are included, many are repetitious (numerous hamburger recipes, various Thai and Mexican variations, yet not one recipe for pork ribs, for example.) A number of the recipes are based on preparation for large groups (6-12), and are not easy to proportion for one or two people. The sauce recipes can be repetitious (for example, garlic butter and garlic bleu cheese steak spread), yet do not include variations on gravies to serve with roasts.<br /><br />Overall, it is the most worthwhile low carb cookbook that I have seen.	2005-01-28
US	53009403	R3JJKUTW6EVITY	0743266471	90600872	The Church That Forgot Christ	Books	1	15	32	N	N	Best not to build a book on rage	The opening chapter seemed to give promise, because Breslin understandably wrote of how the Catholic Church's current emphases seem to focus on nothing but abortion and same-sex marriages, and he seemed to be describing a spiritual and emotional wasteland. However, after awhile, the constant expression of rage, as if there were nothing to the church except paedophiles and that this somehow was connected with wealth, became tiresome and grating.<br /><br />Breslin's premise (see page 133), that some 'American church' where Mass is celebrated at kitchen tables, could fulfil people's needs were it not for the ties to Rome, left me completely puzzled. One with his many years in journalism has no excuse for a tirade with no substantial premise, in the sense that some US version of Christianity would solve the ills.<br /><br />His treatment of the cases involving paedophilia is indeed gripping and vivid, and strikes the reader with horror. Yet he seems to allow no virtue whatever to the 'Roman church' he so abhors, and it is quite beyond me how paedophilia would no longer be a concern were Rome out of the picture. The entire treatment smacked of an overgrown 'American superiority' that gradually became truly exasperating.<br /><br />Breslin seemed to allow the church no redeeming qualities whatever. The only people he mentions are those guilty of either paedophilia or covering it up - and, appalling though this is, it is anything but a balanced image.<br /><br />Often, the sentence structure, choice of language, and so forth gave the impression of one who is so ranting that he become unintelligible. Breslin completely lost me in the sections where he connected sexual crimes in his US church with Irish cardinals of another century, presented a chapter on racism that was so illogically formed that his points were unfathomable, and kept harping on anti-Semitism (the more directed, somehow, against Jewish film producers who turned out a rash of films featuring Catholic priests.) With Breslin's thesis, as was starkly set forth when he spoke of how Confession is impossible when one knows that the priest either is a paedophile or shelters those who are, being that the church is wicked for being Roman and that this quality leads to sexual assaults, the connection with supposed hatred of Jews and racism was totally puzzling.<br /><br />I doubt this book would even have been published had it not been a current 'hot topic.'s starkly set forth when he spoke of how Confession is impossible when one knows that the priest either is a paedophile or shelters those who are, being that the church is wicked for being Roman and that this quality leads to sexual assaults, the connection with supposed hatred of Jews and racism was totally puzzling.    I doubt this book would even have been published had it not been a current 'hot topic.'	2004-11-23
US	53009403	R1RN9PN40S57AV	0670032964	444014990	The Reformation: A History	Books	5	33	37	N	N	Brilliant and with unmatched thoroughness	I own and have studied a library's worth of books related to this period, and MacCulloch's is the single most comprehensive chronicle that I have seen. Despite my extensive familiarity with the topic, I was totally engrossed by the book.<br /><br />MacCulloch shows flair in presenting a wide perspective, covering not only the main figures of the Reformation but less-known, if highly influential characters. The scope is not restricted to the 'key players' in western Europe and England, but includes the East and Scandinavia.  His writing is apt, wry, witty, and shows an exceptional understanding of the doctrinal and political issues involved, giving the background from previous centuries.<br /><br />In MacCulloch's hands, well-known basic facts are developed in quite an enlightening fashion. For example, the idea that the Reformers were 'rescuing' the Church from corruption within the ranks of clergy is common in standard and revisionists versions, yet MacCulloch shows the reader the internal conflicts and misunderstandings which flesh out the usual picture.<br /><br />His keen and entertaining style make this work as engaging as a novel (and undoubtedly twice as intriguing.) From the opening paragraphs, the reader is aware that this will be no cut and dried treatment, but one with unusual insight and humour.	2004-11-11
US	53009403	R69GHZF4WKKX8	1400061849	714772964	Father Joe: The Man Who Saved My Soul	Books	2	16	18	N	N	I loved the first chapters...	...yet found reading much of the remainder to be like wading through a quicksand of Hendra's self-absorption.<br /><br />When Tony described his confession to Father Joe, the latter no mental giant but clearly a man of great insight, humility and understanding, I was moved to tears. Joe seemed a 'healer' in the best sense, working to show the three people involved in Tony's early dabbling in adultery the essence of their problems, rather than dwelling only on the accidental. I also was very impressed by Tony's turning to Joe during his night of feeling a crisis of faith, and Joe's welcoming availability. Joe's not coming up with pat answers, much less 'tough love,' and thereby invalidating Tony's feelings could be a lesson to many.<br /><br />Yet Father Joe fades into the background fairly quickly. Once Tony sees his vocation to become a satirist, the self-absorption (often sheer selfishness) so characteristic of the rest of the book turns Joe into a vague character to whom Tony can turn in a crisis or remember with fondness, but no longer the subject of the book. The work becomes more a tribute to the writer's abilities as a satirist than a story of Joe's influence.	2004-11-06
US	53009403	RRPKQ3VEJDKPN	0688174140	997091371	The Little Big Book of Christmas	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	Perfect Christmas present - and order an extra for yourself	Nostalgic, fun Christmas presents come no better. The assortment of stories, music, and pictures contained in this book cover a huge scope. It is just the sort of book to snuggle with as one nurses a toddy and enjoys the scent of pine.	2004-10-10
US	53009403	RSPL8JRYW5WUF	0393028488	472083189	Eminent Victorians	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Not quite as promising as appeared at first glance	The book is beautifully presented, with interesting illustrations, and the treatment of various famous Victorians seemed promising at the outset. Yet, overall, the book is not of the quality I had expected. Facts are not treated in sufficient depth, and are presented with a narrow perspective.<br /><br />Whether in an attempt to gain sales or just a nod to current popular obsessions, the over-emphasis on sex is quite boring. Everything from schoolboy novels (supposedly covert treatment of masochism) to Lewis Carroll is based on sexual matters, and too many motives are blamed on subconscious sexual frustration.	2004-09-28
US	53009403	R16OVRT73SZXO8	0465089917	211317693	When Passion Reigned: Sex And The Victorians	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Highly entertaining and informative	This book is a 'must read' for anyone who is a romantic. Though it indeed shows extensive historical references, and is amply illustrated with authentic items from the era, the text is thoroughly and delightfully slanted in favour of romance, innuendo, and other treasures that are all too lacking today - when, as the author aptly shows, sex can be reduced to the medical and social sciences realms.<br /><br />Some of the examples are priceless - the hot-blooded Reverend Kingsley, John Henry Newman's famous opponent, pouring out his passion whilst looking for scriptural justification for the details being one of the more extensive.<br /><br />Patricia Anderson's wit and cleverness are a treat. Her thesis, that the 'purity societies' and 'muscular Christian' emphasis on sports were means of conserving sperm to produce a strong generation to build the empire, is refreshing and very well tied to the 'production' ideas of the era. She also gives fascinating side glimpses into the wisdom behind the early feminism, such as opposed the Contagious Disease Act and pornography.<br /><br />In all, this work has both historical merit and high entertainment value.	2004-09-27
US	53009403	R23DV4N5HORJMO	0801442079	281460170	Holy Tears, Holy Blood: Women, Catholicism, and the Culture of Suffering in France, 1840–1970	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Excellent research and interpretation	This intriguing study answered many a question of mine about the idea of 'vicarious suffering' in French spirituality. Burton develops the topic in an arresting writing style, showing the political and social influences which contributed to this variety of Ultramontane attitudes towards sacrifice and pain. The characters he treats were largely familiar to me, and I am not ignorant of French history, yet, in his deep and absorbing treatment, I found answers to areas that had puzzled me for decades.<br /><br />In a larger realm, Burton's subject applies to the overall 'good wife, good daughter' idea that thwarted those seeking to promote prayer, service and sacrament in Britain and other areas of Europe. For example, the development of how church involvement was seen as taking away the (usually very secular) husband or father's authority has implications that go far beyond France itself.<br /><br />This is not a 'devotional' book, and those who are looking for such may be disappointed by Burton's honest and detached treatment of the ailments, physical or psychological, which contributed to the manifestations these women displayed. Nonetheless, there is nothing offensive to religion here at all, and indeed the sincere devotion of those of whom he writes is affirmed. Burton's originality is in his explanation of the factors that made spirituality in this time and place sometimes take a particular form - and one that could be devastating and, in the outcome, quite contrary to the solid and positive Christian approach which Th&eacute;r&egrave;se promoted.<br /><br />I read this book in an afternoon, totally absorbed. I would recommend it heartily.	2004-09-16
US	53009403	R17A86QDSWR3KN	0567292991	547984034	Sacrament of Salvation: An Introduction to Eucharistic Ecclesiology	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Outstanding - and very original and insightful	Dr McPartlan's work not only explains the ecclesiological aspects of the Eucharist (a critical and often neglected topic) but provides very original, fascinating treatment of New Testament texts in the eucharistic context.<br /><br />For example, McPartlan's explanation of Hebrews 18, and the relation to the parousia and Eucharist, and his treatment of the Lamb and multitude in Revelation, make for superb reflections, meditation, or topics for group discussion. The only reservation that I would have about that last is that, since later chapters defend the Vatican position and admit only Roman Catholic and Orthodox Orders as valid, the book may not be suited for group discussions in other sister churches. It nonetheless would be a valuable contribution to the library of anyone interested in sacramental theology and ecclesiology.<br /><br />McPartlan quotes extensively from documents of Vatican II, which makes it an excellent reference for a correct understanding of these (this often sadly lacking elsewhere - my stress was on 'correct.') It is notable that there are many references to the books of the New Testament and earliest Christian texts, and the setting of these in the context of worship and Church fills a most important need.	2004-09-09
US	53009403	R1U9JLSTKTS649	0385240791	162285045	The Gospel According to Woman: Christianity's Creation of the Sex War in the West	Books	2	21	33	N	N	Limited thesis slants the historical perspective	At her best, Karen Armstrong is a superb and thought-provoking historian, producing books of 'five star' quality. This book is deeply disappointing by contrast. Though it contains an interesting treatment of much historical material, Karen's avid insistence that 'men hate women' so dominates the presentation that the perspective becomes far too narrow. Since her qualifications as an historian are amply illustrated in her other works, Karen clearly was being selective to the point of omitting important details.<br />As a simple example, forms of asceticism popular during the early Christian centuries indeed stressed 'martyrdom' and living as if one were an 'angel' (that is, with no body.) The 'church of martyrs' approach was very popular in some areas, and most of those who adapted these practises were men. Taken out of the context of eschatology on the one hand, the classic philosophers' discipline (by no means confined to Christians) on the other, Karen's approach makes it seem that asceticism was born of hatred for women. Gruesome tortures are part and parcel of legends of all martyrs, but the key point was their witness, and one wonders, in the pre-Freudian era, if anyone would have imagined them as sadistic and inspired by the desire to see women (in particular) suffer.<br />Other assertions are insufficiently substantiated - and, for an historian of Karen's calibre, this seems deliberate. For example, quoting from a medieval penitentiary, Karen gives weight to her thesis that the Roman Catholic Church enjoined 'near celibacy' on married couples, a claim I am sure must couples, in any century, would be amazed to hear, but possibly one that people would believe in an era when this is assumed because of RC prohibition of contraception. Indeed, the penitentiary requires various days of abstinence from sex, but penitentiaries did not outline common practise - one observing the direction set forth would have been in a period of canonical penance, undoubtedly for a very serious offence.<br />The fascination which the devout have with stigmatics is twisted, as if priests who went to see those bearing stigmata in modern times did so to enjoy the sight of a woman (whom they hate by nature) suffering. Aside from the possible appeal of a baptised freak show, many people, of either sex, see such manifestations as signs of special divine favour, and therefore as evidence of God's acting within his creation. Though I would agree with Karen in her assessment of such 'favours' as mainly neurotic, they hardly illustrate hatred of women.<br />There is no allowance for individual peculiarities, common, I am sure, to most of the population. For example, Catherine of Siena (whose sanctity I am not questioning) would have been a pathological case in any century, and her excesses are hardly an adaptation to her times. Zelie Martin, mother of Therese of Lisieux, indeed refrained from sex for some months after her marriage and cried profusely on her wedding day at being deprived of convent life - but this was not because the church insists sex is evil, but because, in all likelihood, being barred from a life for which she yearned was tortuous - Karen certainly must have seen how deeply many women cherish religious vocations during her convent days.<br />Though there is validity to much of what Karen records, the requirement that everything conform to her 'men hate women' thesis limits the scope to the point of distorting history. It also can make one shudder to deal with such assertions as 'Christian men hate women - Islamic men may insist on clitoroectomy, but their reason is that the woman is valued as a possession.' One wonders how being a 'valued possession' would be preferable, especially in view of such results.ry serious offence.<br />The fascination which the devout have with stigmatics is twisted, as if priests who went to see those bearing stigmata in modern times did so to enjoy the sight of a woman (whom they hate by nature) suffering. Aside from the possible appeal of a baptised freak show, many people, of either sex, see such manifestations as signs of special divine favour, and therefore as evidence of God's acting within his creation. Though I would agree with Karen in her assessment of such 'favours' as mainly neurotic, they hardly illustrate hatred of women.<br />There is no allowance for individual peculiarities, common, I am sure, to most of the population. For example, Catherine of Siena (whose sanctity I am not questioning) would have been a pathological case in any century, and her excesses are hardly an adaptation to her times. Zelie Martin, mother of Therese of Lisieux, indeed refrained from sex for some months after her marriage and cried profusely on her wedding day at being deprived of convent life - but this was not because the church insists sex is evil, but because, in all likelihood, being barred from a life for which she yearned was tortuous - Karen certainly must have seen how deeply many women cherish religious vocations during her convent days.<br />Though there is validity to much of what Karen records, the requirement that everything conform to her 'men hate women' thesis limits the scope to the point of distorting history. It also can make one shudder to deal with such assertions as 'Christian men hate women - Islamic men may insist on clitoroectomy, but their reason is that the woman is valued as a possession.' One wonders how being a 'valued possession' would be preferable, especially in view of such results.	2004-06-19
US	53009403	R1C97D6O0TJ8X2	0898703484	793270997	Ungodly Rage: The Hidden Face of Catholic Feminism	Books	2	28	48	N	N	Half journalism, half inflammatory	Though I daresay that Mrs Steichen and I would vary greatly in both approach and emphasis, there are certain points she sets forth which are valid and basically well reported - for example, the use of Wiccan rituals by women religious being detrimental to the spiritual life, and the distortion in values that can arise from exagerrated feminism. I would agree, as well, with some (emphasis on 'some') of her assessments of particular feminist 'voices' to which she refers. Yet the journalist, who I have no doubt accurately reported some of the rituals she observed, takes a back seat to one whose highly conservative agenda brands everyone with whom she agrees with the 'demonic' iron.<br />For example, Steichen refers to various theologians (among them Raymond Brown and Joseph Fitzmyer, who were amongst the 20th century's best RC scripture scholars, and Karl Rahner) in the same breath as those with Wiccan emphases - and the result is so inaccurate as to be nearly laughable. Raymond Brown wrote an entire book affirming the virginal conception and bodily resurrection of Christ, with footnotes to Vatican documents on many a page, yet Steichen makes it appear that he is one of a crowd who denies these doctrines. One wonders if Steichen has actually read the works of these theologians - and, if so, if she has the sophistication to understand their analyses.<br />I am acquainted with the writings of some of the women with whom Steichen takes issue, and, in many cases, find them equally exasperating. Yet there is no distinction here as well. I have little patience with the feminism of Joan Chittister, for example, yet have heard her speak of the importance of the Benedictine tradition of liturgical prayer - a far cry from pagan rituals.<br />Steichen repeatedly refers to the collapse of the &quot;North American&quot; Church, and is quick to note when one who is a citizen of another land, or even foreign born, is propagating the errors she sees. It becomes highly annoying, with an effect of such a narrow view that the thesis seems to be 'the US Church would be fine were it not for these European influences' (John Paul II and Cardinal Ratzinger apparently being exceptions.) In my observation, a great many liturgical abuses and much of the deterioration in women's communities stemmed precisely from a distorted view of 'acculturation,' and an attitude that emphasis (for example) on nuns' professional achievement rather than the life of prayer was 'more American.' It is unfortunate that she does not treat of this, for it has had far more devastating effects than New Age gnosticism.<br />For one so devout, Steichen seems to give undue credit to the powers of evil. The idea that a curse by women who worship some sort of wicked goddess caused the defeat of a proposal by Jesse Helms (who, I believe, holds some views which would not be in accord with RC positions...) was bizarre. Steichen goes far beyond pointing out errors, to a worldview where nuns seem to be descending into witchcraft and thereby summoning evil powers.<br />Steichen's writing style is professional and engaging, which makes this book all the more dangerous. It seems such thorough reporting that, taken at face value, unsuspecting readers may view the works of notable theologians as heretical. There is no balance. One receives the erroneous impression that nuns would remain loyal daughters of the Church had they not obtained theological education.n effect of such a narrow view that the thesis seems to be 'the US Church would be fine were it not for these European influences' (John Paul II and Cardinal Ratzinger apparently being exceptions.) In my observation, a great many liturgical abuses and much of the deterioration in women's communities stemmed precisely from a distorted view of 'acculturation,' and an attitude that emphasis (for example) on nuns' professional achievement rather than the life of prayer was 'more American.' It is unfortunate that she does not treat of this, for it has had far more devastating effects than New Age gnosticism.<br />For one so devout, Steichen seems to give undue credit to the powers of evil. The idea that a curse by women who worship some sort of wicked goddess caused the defeat of a proposal by Jesse Helms (who, I believe, holds some views which would not be in accord with RC positions...) was bizarre. Steichen goes far beyond pointing out errors, to a worldview where nuns seem to be descending into witchcraft and thereby summoning evil powers.<br />Steichen's writing style is professional and engaging, which makes this book all the more dangerous. It seems such thorough reporting that, taken at face value, unsuspecting readers may view the works of notable theologians as heretical. There is no balance. One receives the erroneous impression that nuns would remain loyal daughters of the Church had they not obtained theological education.	2004-05-02
US	53009403	R2DV7NU14LXUY9	0671801112	222729489	Letter from Peking	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Artificial and tiresome	Pearl Buck attempts to set across several themes - ties to country and to family, wisdom somehow being passed down from the ancestors, some sort of odd idea of the sisterhood of women, and the beauty of first love that endures. Unfortunately, the result is a muddle, and, by the end of the book's first third, one may find oneself yawning at the 'voice' of a middle aged woman droning on and on about how wonderful her sex life has been.<br />Elizabeth, our heroine and narrator, extols the beauty of nature constantly - whether it is to Vermont or Peking to which she is referring - and there is some naturalness in her vivid descriptions of sunrises and ewe lambs chewing the grass. Otherwise, she seems unreal  - a vague woman who seems to think herself hugely wise.<br />The situations and dialogue are sadly artificial. Elizabeth's sermons to her son make her sound more like an ancient sage than a mother; then, when she fears that Rennie cannot love a girl whose heart can 'only hold one cup' (this, apparently, was confirmed when Elizabeth met and judged her equally one-cup mother), she suddenly shifts loyalties and, with the sisterhood of women coming first, breaks her son's romance lest the girl not be 'protected.' Quite dramatic - and totally out of order for two teenagers having a brief romance while the girl is in Vermont for the summer.<br />The influence of ancestors is always appearing - and shifting. Rennie, Elizabeth's son, first looks like Gerald, then his mother, then has a Scots rather than a Chinese profile - and his perpetually changing is accompanied by an apparently inherited wisdom. At 17, he is an impeccable son and student, but still has some roughness around the edges. By the advanced age of 19, he is a mature sage, the immaturity vanished, whether through ancestral wisdom's penetration or the magic of his having found the woman whose heart's measure is on a par with his.<br />Though Elizabeth traces and retraces Gerald's reasons for needing to stay in Peking, it remained a total puzzle to me. No single idea was developed enough for the whole to make sense.n Peking, it remained a total puzzle to me. No single idea was developed enough for the whole to make sense.	2004-01-27
US	53009403	R3IKDLFG6M1V5F	0028627717	521698671	Betty Crocker's Picture Cook Book	Books	1	14	57	N	N	All too basic	I'm old enough to remember when Betty Crocker's cookbook was a standard gift for new brides who had no experience at all with boiling an egg. Then and now, it could be useful for those whose main concern is getting something, anything, on the table with minimum fuss. But it is strictly limited and utilitarian - the recipes are very bland, without mention of even simple additions (herbs, perhaps, or a cup of wine) that could improve the quality of the most frugal cook's table without requiring extensive time or gourmet expertise.<br />As one example from my own book of 'sad cooking outcomes,' I well remember when I intended to prepare a beautiful veal roast, and a relative asked if she could do so instead to have it ready a bit earlier. The result was hardly to be relished - unseasoned, no gravy, rather dry - basically a product of 'just put it in and let it cook.' Need I mention which cookbook she had used? The standard &quot;do not baste, do not add water&quot;, bland Betty Crocker.<br />If one is totally inexperienced, and just wishes to gain confidence in the very action of cooking, this book might have some value as a beginning - but not for long.	2004-01-10
US	53009403	R2SBMHFFWCGKGM	006016848X	587492563	Men Are from Mars, Women Are from Venus: A Practical Guide for Improving Communication and Getting What You Want in Your Relationships	Books	1	37	57	N	N	Silly and shallow	If anything, a 'how to' guide such as this one could lead to further misunderstanding in many relationships. The pat 'this means that' would be far off the mark in more cases than one could count.<br />Here is a simple example (which I, as a woman, have a right to make.) Gray's assumption that women are invariably empathetic listeners, instinctively understand what other women say, and that their unsolicited 'constructive criticism' is an expression of caring and love, is laughable. Respectively, in many cases the 'empathy' is merely looking for key words in the other's speech in order to respond with one's own 'wisdom,' the assumption of 'understanding' means very poor listening ability (often accompanied by answers to questions no one asked), and the meddling, excuse me, 'constructive criticism' is an ego game.<br />No one is ready to explore knowledge of the other in relationships unless one first tries some honest self-knowledge. This is merely a 'how to' book for assumptions, accompanied by a smug 'I'm this way because I am from Mars/Venus'.	2003-09-22
US	53009403	R19QSXN253C7YG	0374299668	562033794	The Other Side of the Altar: One Man's Life in the Catholic Priesthood	Books	2	19	30	N	N	Interesting, but too limited in focus	If one is 'working backwards' from the scandal of there being sexual abuse scandals, and 'covering up,' Dr Dinter's book does present an absorbing treatment of factors which have influenced both tendencies.<br />However, the scope of the thought is far too limited. In the early chapters, where Dinter speaks of his childhood and seminary training, the traits which encouraged those not suited to the priesthood to pursue ordination, and attitudes assumed on the part of family and local church, were presented as if they were universal. Celibacy was treated as if it were the source of inevitable pathology (though not criminal actions or necessarily sexual abuse). I am not suggesting that Dinter's observations would apply to some, perhaps many, of the clergy, but there is no balance in this book. The observations are assumed to apply to all.<br />Dr Dinter's intelligence and background are clear, and it therefore is very disappointing to see generalisations lead to half truths. This oddly reminded me of the quite different generalisations that he so deplored in his seminary training.	2003-07-14
US	53009403	RP4TK9VE1X1OR	0374299668	562033794	The Other Side of the Altar: One Man's Life in the Catholic Priesthood	Books	2	10	20	N	N	Interesting, but too limited in focus	If one is 'working backwards' from the scandal of there being sexual abuse scandals, and 'covering up,' Dr Dinter's book does present an absorbing treatment of factors which have influenced both tendencies.<br />However, the scope of the thought is far too limited. In the early chapters, where Dinter speaks of his childhood and seminary training, the traits which encouraged those not suited to the priesthood to pursue ordination, and attitudes assumed on the part of family and local church, were presented as if they were universal. Celibacy was treated as if it were the source of inevitable pathology (though not criminal actions or necessarily sexual abuse). I am not suggesting that Dinter's observations would apply to some, perhaps many, of the clergy, but there is no balance in this book. The observations are assumed to apply to all. <br />Dr Dinter's intelligence and background are clear, and it therefore is very disappointing to see generalisations lead to half truths. This oddly reminded me of the quite different generalisations that he so deplored in his seminary training.	2003-07-14
US	53009403	R1BQGT6MJGVSTW	0500015481	283689886	The Medieval Cookbook	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	Wonderful library addition or gift for medievalists	This is the perfect gift book for those interested in the Middle Ages. It is beautifully presented, and organisation of recipes with references to historical incidents or literary works is clever and winning. The recipes are easy enough to prepare, and I assumed the variations from the originals were intended to make obtaining ingredients simple.<br />There were several reasons I withheld a 'five star' rating. First, though the author makes reference to how a particular dish would have been prepared in several different ways, only one variation is offered, in some cases markedly unlike the original. Secondly, and to a greater degree, there are not many recipes included. Those provided are illustrations of a category, not collections of, for example, varied main dishes, desserts, or savouries.	2003-07-05
US	53009403	R14MN7NVN4CK10	0803894430	971763567	Daytrips London, Sixth Edition: 50 One-Day Adventures by Rail or Car, in and Around London and Southern England	Books	5	6	6	N	N	It is time to be an independent traveller	I have used this volume extensively, over a number of years, and have found it to be exceptionally useful. Pair it with a Brit Rail flexipass, and you will never need to join tours or be at a loss for new places to visit.<br />The descriptions and maps make it possible to explore locations at a leisurely pace, noting spots one would find of particular interest. Though the 'walking tours' outlined are within the reach of most, those who cannot walk distances should not be deterred, because there nearly always are local buses (if not Guide Friday tours, which are convenient and relatively inexpensive) that can bring one from the station to the town centre. I have never had difficulty exploring a new city using the Daytrips maps, and I am by no means gifted with any sense of direction.<br />Though not aimed solely at those with Brit Rail passes, this book can help those who hold them to have maximum benefit. (Those travelling from the States, used to a country that is geographically massive, and where major cities of interest can be separated by hundreds or thousands of miles, often need time to adjust conceptually to that one may see much of England by travelling by day return. One cannot get the full benefit of rail passes unless one gets away from the mindset that any journey means an overnight stay.) Since, for example, the most common flexipass allows one four days of travel, not journeys, using Daytrips to select destinations, then returning to the home base in the evening, means exploring four cities - not going in one direction on the first and returning on the next 'day of the pass.'	2003-05-21
US	53009403	R23YEXH8XM8AOJ	0399510605	221793597	The Hollywood Hall of Shame: The Most Expensive Flops in Movie History	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Nowhere near as good as the Fifty Worst Films	It seemed clear that, in putting together a sequel to their successful and delightful Fifty Worst Films of all Times, the brothers Medved cut many a corner to meet a deadline. This volume falls far short of their previous work, though it is fairly entertaining in parts.<br />Some of the films included would be known only to the most avid film buffs - for example, silents, and two films in which Goebbels and Mussolini were involved with production. Where much of the success in the original 'worst films' was in that people either had seen the film or at least knew the genre well, there were few in this book that even 'rang a bell.'<br />A few entries give the impression that the Medveds originally had intended to include their brilliant &quot;dialogue&quot; and &quot;rave reviews&quot; sections. Instead, all seemed very hurried, and one had often to leave to one's imagination what actually happened on screen to any great extent. Many of the entries had to do with disastrous events surrounding a film's production.<br />It did stir a few memories: some of Elizabeth Taylor's turkeys, Liberace's &quot;Sincerely Yours,&quot; the horrid lyrics to a song featured in a Kate Smith film, the dreadful presentation of &quot;The Greatest Story ever Told.&quot; Yet most were completely strange to me, and I am not a youngster.<br />It's worth reading on a rainy day, but don't pay too much for the second hand copy.	2003-02-23
US	53009403	RQYU3GBSRJII	068805062X	452560037	The Peter Prescription; How to Be Creative, Confident and Competent	Books	1	5	8	N	N	Very disappointing and boring	I eagerly purchased this book, because I had found the Peter Principle to be a 'five star' delight. But, where the first book was distinguished for its wit, creativity, and originality (particularly with its being so in contrast to the 'positive thinking' approach), this one is stale and boring.<br />Peter borrowed the same tired self-help adages that one could find in any second rate magazine, throwing in the usual advice about the 'new food pyramid' and exercise. It was as far from original as it gets, and seemed to cater to current trends and cliches rather than demonstrate the least creativity.	2003-02-15
US	53009403	R3REJTJQWS5CD5	0312849516	531813455	Virgins	Books	1	5	28	N	Y	Very disappointing	Previous reviews on this site had led me to believe I was in for a nostalgic laugh fest when I purchased this book, the more because I myself was a product of Catholic education. I was quite disappointed.<br />A good number of the incidents recorded are actually quite tragic, including a suicide. The closest I came to laughing was with the creation of \\"Saint Leon\\" and the \\"Marylike\\" campaign, but, even with the latter, it was too exagerrated - more pathetic than hilarious.<br />Perhaps the title should have tipped me off, but the majority of the book's content has to do with sex, and is not really funny - Con's first encounter is the stuff of nightmares rather than fond memories.	2003-02-14
US	53009403	R3I171CNIHQE2G	1893069249	999367521	Timothy Cratchit's Christmas Carol, 1917: A Sequel to the Charles Dickens Classic	Books	1	3	5	N	N	Dreadful - boring and unimaginative	Granted, finding another Dickens would be highly unlikely in any era. Yet this horrid work not only is a far cry from Dickens but would be only mediocre were it written by a teenager who was trying to make points about 2002 political correctness, heavily flavoured by the American dream.<br />I shall not repeat the points which other 'one star' reviewers made, and with which I heartily concur. The literary style is very poor, the rush of ghosts and their messages more irritating than enlightening, and Timothy Cratchit shows not a hint of the charm of which the original gave promise.	2003-02-08
US	53009403	R8XRQLIH6CBW5	0060633158	101171164	The Story of Christianity, Volume 1: The Early Church to the Dawn of the Reformation (Story of Christianity)	Books	3	24	43	N	Y	Good overview, but insufficient for advanced students	Gonzalez's work is highly accurate, and provides a good summary of the church history of the period. However, for advanced students, its value is largely as a means of refreshing the memory about developments in a particular period. It does not have the degree of the history of doctrinal development, or even of all aspects of religious conflicts, that would be helpful in graduate studies.<br />As well, I did not care for the writing style, which seemed on a par with what &quot;grammar checkers&quot; would allow as not being &quot;pretentious&quot; (translation: nothing above the level of an eight year old.) Though I'd consider the term &quot;readable&quot; to be very complimentary, this book goes too far, placing the language on such an elementary level that I sometimes had to stop a moment and remember this was not a child's book.	2002-12-07
US	53009403	RRITF0MBCAC7E	0446312576	660599156	The fifty worst films of all time: (and how they got that way)	Books	5	7	12	N	Y	Delight from beginning to end	Rarely has a book given me the continuous laughter that this one provided! The wry wit and &quot;courage&quot; to take &quot;classics&quot; and show their glaring deficiencies was a constant delight. My only regret is that there was no later edition.	2002-11-23
US	53009403	R1Y19IYH1YR5H1	039951404X	69209637	TV Turkeys: An Outrageous Look at the Most Preposterous Shows Ever on Television	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Funny and nostalgic, but very repetitive	This book is a pleasant diversion for anyone who wishes to relax a bit with memories of past television shows. The shows presented range from the disastrous to the long-running but poor art class (such presentations as Hogan's Heroes being in the second category.) However, the descriptions are not especially insightful, and the ways of setting forth characterisation repetitive, very boring, and tediously Freudian. For example, I found it very tiresome when one actor or character after another was described as \\"anal retentive\\" or \\"asexual.\\"<br />The authors largely describe only a key, perhaps glaring, reason that a show lacks artistic merit or appeal - some shows are not \\"turkeys\\" in the sense of being unsuccessful, but those which are are compared to equally dreadful shows which succeeded, so the standard for a \\"turkey\\" is uncertain. It surprised me that the most embarrassing aspects of shows which one would blush to admit one once watched regularly were overlooked. For example, nearly anyone would admit that the Flying Nun had not only a bizarre premise but dreadful scripts, yet the author misses the ridiculously forced attempts at including \\"political\\" or \\"social justice\\" aspects (never successfully, I might add) which made the scripts precisely as horrid as they were.<br />It is a fun read, but not a delight.	2002-11-23
US	53009403	R32F918I7ZI62	0385335105	851543694	Aches & Pains	Books	1	9	20	N	N	Extremely disappointing	At their best, Maeve's books contain wonderful warmth and humour. This one, sadly, falls far short of that promise.<br />For example, various sections (such as the one on how uncomfortabless with being undressed means self-obsession), rather than being witty or understanding of a patient's pain and fear, seem instructions on how to be a &quot;good patient,&quot; to cause doctors or nurses maximum convenience. Many of those who are ill have found that doctors are not the nicest of people with whom to deal, and there is nothing to make a patient feel comfort or empathy in this book. The little &quot;poem&quot; about telling about eating, smoking, and drinking is far from funny.<br />I would not dream of giving this to anyone who was ill. The copy I'd intended to present ended up in my recycling bin.	2002-10-20
US	53009403	R31YIS669C8FIM	0684848597	621724421	People of the Lie: The Hope for Healing Human Evil	Books	2	34	46	N	N	Interesting and neglected premise - poorly developed	Scott Peck's book left me rather puzzled. I have a fairly extensive background in theology (studied in both Church of England and Roman Catholic universities), and, while the study of evil is certainly in accord with a Christian perspective, his religious approach seems to be his own creation. Peck gives the Father of Lies far too much credit, and his quickness to assume that exorcism can be a cure for either demonstrated wickedness or (far more likely in the case studies presented) a mind distorted by serious illness is... certainly original. In fact, true wickedness, which would involve a will turned to evil, would not (theologically) be necessarily possible if one had no true use of reason or of will in the first place.<br />I am not expert in psychology, but have had a significant amount of exposure to concepts and to those with mental illness. Some of the cases Peck presents show very difficult patients, but I could not understand why he judged all to be evil. In fact, the only case with which I clearly saw an evil element was of the boy who received a \\"present\\" from his parents of a gun his own brother had used to kill himself.<br />The book has some value in stimulating discussion and consideration of the topics broached. Certainly, \\"he's just sick\\"  should not be a blanket justification for wickedness, nor should we deny that evil exists - and lies, manipulation, and total self centredness can be chilling in the extreme. Yet Scott's combination of a self-developed approach to theology (flawed on many counts) and a psychology based on the pre-supposition that the difficult are evil falls far short of both marks.	2002-08-26
US	53009403	R1OEY6J9TTJXSK	0226653714	584632931	The Christian Tradition: A History of the Development of Doctrine, Vol. 1: The Emergence of the Catholic Tradition (100-600)	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Brilliant	Jaroslav Pelikan has a superb skill for presenting the history of doctrine in a readable, comprehensive format. It is especially valuable that he treats issues as a whole, showing varied points of view, rather than using a strictly chronological format.<br />The patristic era is fascinating, and the more so with Pelikan's setting the developments forth in a fashion which makes all the &quot;pieces of the puzzles&quot; come together. I found it extremely enlightening, and would highly recommend this and the other books in the series.	2002-08-24
US	53009403	R2S1PVJR6U26RX	0824516761	559269952	The Joy of Being Wrong: Original Sin Through Easter Eyes	Books	5	112	114	N	Y	Totally intriguing	I would begin with a word of caution - this is extremely deep, intense reading, not a devotional book (as &quot;Easter eyes&quot; might be taken to imply.) It is a work where one must read each paragraph carefully, often more than once, to receive the full impact. In doing so, one may see its clear brilliance.<br />Allison's exploration of original sin is especially striking because he re-interprets this doctrine as taking its meaning from the resurrection. He lays his groundwork by explaining concepts set forth by Rene Girard, then applies this to Christology and soteriology, moving on to explore much of human nature and how theologians of past eras have dealt with similar approaches. I do not wish to expound, not wanting to spoil the material for new readers, but his treatment of the topic had me nearly shouting &quot;Eureka!&quot; every ten pages or so. It is a highly useful work, not only for those specifically interested in theological anthropology, but to anyone wishing a clearer picture of the human condition and relation to God.<br />This is not a book for a brief meditation or weekend retreat, but, for those interested in an enlightening, original, in depth study, it is quite amazing. The blend of scholarship and insight is a rare treat.	2002-08-24
US	53009403	R1V6M0AUBOFSTG	0446602744	275856268	The Rules: Time-Tested Secrets for Capturing the Heart of Mr. Right	Books	1	18	23	N	N	Silly games - degrading to both parties	Though I am not \\"in the market\\" now, I thought this book would be enjoyable because I am a hopeless romantic, and enjoy nostalgia. I was quite wrong!<br />I shall focus only on a few points, since many other reviewers have stressed the book's deficiencies in detail. The ridiculous, degrading games which the author suggests are suited only to women who have neither respect for who they truly are (or fear that their true personality would not catch a man... wait until they marry, and cannot be Lana Turner 24 hours a day), nor any for the man they hope to snag. The woman is to be totally fake, the man a stooge who needs a princess doll to convince him that he should be in awe that he could catch such a prize.<br />Perhaps those of certain cultures or classes played some of these games (not returning calls, ignoring, etc.) once upon a time, but, if this was in a setting where the games were understood, the perspective would have been understandable. Today, a man who phoned three times and never received a call back would either assume the woman was not interested or see through the manipulation. Not to mention that calling three times if a woman declines an invitation could mean a harrassment charge (even if that often is equally absurd)!	2002-08-24
US	53009403	R3PLAI9U1ARTHM	0898707439	357436549	The Time Before You Die: A Novel of the Reformation	Books	3	3	10	N	Y	Historically interesting, but rather boring in style	The Tudor era is one of my special interests, and, with Reginald Pole being a character I find particularly fascinating, I'd hoped to love this book. Though it is historically accurate, and provides points of view which are quite enriching to a broad picture of the time, I found the style of writing and plot to be rather boring.	2002-06-28
US	53009403	R3CZ21TSXSMQ74	0826411649	709008081	Thoughts Matter: The Practice of the Spiritual Life	Books	5	44	44	N	Y	Best capsule course in ascetic theology I have seen	Based on the classic ascetic practises of the patristic era, and on their application in the Rule of Benedict, this book sets forth clear, solid, far-reaching insights which would enrich the life of anyone seeking to grow in the spiritual life.<br />Sister Mary Margaret expresses the principles simply yet with great depth, and, in a style enormously refreshing for the \\"self-esteem\\" era (her comments on that concept are very telling), does so with great honesty. She does not qualify the wisdom of two millennia in an attempt to be unwisely \\"relevant\\" to the reader. She has no qualms about showing that the Christian ascetic vocation is an endless period of growth, though her expressing how practising discipline of thoughts leads to results unaware will undoubtedly be strengthening during times of struggle.<br />The only aspect which those new to the topic must keep in mind is that this volume, short though it is, is not meant to be skimmed nor read hurriedly. It is the stuff of the lectio divina to which the early chapters refer - intended for quiet, reflective, prayerful reading. Much of the best material (for example, the sections regarding sex and vainglory) can be missed if one is reading only \\"key words,\\" without attention to the overall picture which places it into focus.<br />I have had a deep interest in ascetic theology for thirty years, and am well acquainted with many great writings in that area. I can honestly say that this book is one of the best of contemporary treatments of the subject.	2002-06-28
US	53009403	R1F97OUIUE0G33	0895552531	318747484	St. Bernadette Soubirous: 1844-1879	Books	5	41	41	N	N	Thorough and engaging	The problem with being a noted visionary is that one may be so associated with the related devotion that little of one's own &quot;true life&quot; story is explored. Trochu's work is a treat for those who wish to know the true Bernadette - not merely the holy card image.<br />Trochu's biography is extensive, engaging, and honest. He lets the reader see Bernadette's genuine faith and devotion (and struggles, with community and hierarchy), without descending into hagiography. It is a fascinating, very &quot;fleshed out&quot; picture, dispelling myths (such as the &quot;happy shepherdess&quot;), and giving one a thorough picture of Bernadette's strong, simple personality, tenacity, and family and religious life.	2002-03-08
US	53009403	RZU7NXI8PRAOO	0313294674	989011242	Daily Life in Victorian England	Books	3	20	26	N	Y	Best for those for whom it is a total introduction	This book does provide a useful overview, well adapted to settings such as classrooms, where readers are likely to be having their first exposure to the Victorian era.<br />For those, such as myself, who are adults who have studied or explored the Victorian age in the past, there is nothing really new here, and the organisation and tone of writing, which assumes no previous knowledge and is very much &quot;junior high&quot; level, make it a less than engaging read.	2002-03-08
US	53009403	R1OW04CP73ETTK	038515738X	252549113	Doors To the Sacred: A Historical Introduction To Sacraments in the Catholic Church	Books	4	30	38	N	Y	Excellent and thorough historical information	Martos's treatment of the history of the sacraments is comprehensive and very enlightening, and presented in a clear and orthodox manner. I would recommend this book for anyone interested in the Roman Catholic view of the sacraments or in Church history.<br />There are only two disappointing aspects. First, Martos's treatment of the later 20th century gives the impression that sacramental theology is now indefinite, but that this does not matter as long as the believer finds their concepts to be &quot;doors to the sacred.&quot; Secondly, he has the rather annoying tendency to use American RC parishes as illustrations of the promise of<br />Vatican II fulfilled. For example, in his treatment of the sacrament of Reconciliation, he overly stresses &quot;communal guilt&quot; and such &quot;corporate&quot; sins as racism, and suggests that sacramental confession of individual sins fell by the wayside because of this new &quot;awareness.&quot; Both are faulty concepts which he presents as if they were highly positive.<br />It is a fine reference work, but serious theological students will need to be certain it is one of several.	2002-03-01
US	53009403	R2OGG1ZE0MJPIL	0060987103	816790174	Wicked: The Life and Times of the Wicked Witch of the West	Books	2	14	17	N	N	I really wanted to love this one	The premise for this book was so intriguing that I'd expected an in-depth exploration of how Elphaba became &quot;wicked.&quot; Instead, I found it tedious and boring - the sort of book where one keeps turning pages waiting for the interesting parts to appear.<br />I could not help but wonder if the author was having the &quot;last laugh&quot; on the reader. Though no ideas were developed in any depth, the teasers, which sparked the hope of real treatment later, seemed just brief mentions of one political issue or another. We do not know what Elphaba's purpose was in being a Sister (or if the Sisters, indeed, were witches) - what this &quot;unionist&quot; religion of which her father was minister was - nor even why, at birth, her appearance was so &quot;demonic&quot; and bizarre. I was longing for fewer references to the Animals!<br />Scenes and settings disappear shortly after their introduction, and supporting characters have no real development. Curiously, barely anyone in this book (other than Elphaba herself!) seems anything but wicked and scheming - yet, since the reader does not know their motives (they appear only in brief vignettes where Elphaba becomes disappointed in them), Oz becomes, not just a normally &quot;fallen&quot; world, but a dark and evil spot, where all bizarre species of creatures dwell. One never knows why Elphaba keeps insisting she is totally different from others, or why she is sure she has no soul.<br />I am sure other readers will think that I merely do not have the sophistication to grasp the deeper points, but it seemed odd that, as a doctor of humanities with certainly some exposure to history, literature, and imaginative thought, if I kept wondering &quot;what is the point?,&quot; I cannot be alone.<br />I did read this book avidly, because I kept hoping it would live up to its premise. It does not flesh out the Wicked Witch of the West, because it leaves the reader with unexplained, endless questions raised.	2002-01-15
US	53009403	RDAVB42OZOLGK	0689717512	424090543	Baby Island	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Very imaginative and funny	I am delighted to see that this well-remembered childhood favourite is in print. I am of a generation where adolescent girls were very likely to be caring for babies, and &quot;little mother&quot; Mary and resourceful Jean are delightful characters.<br />This is by no means an &quot;adventure&quot; story, where danger lurks and survival requires hardihood - and that is why it is such relaxing entertainment. It is a bit of a spoof, obviously, in that solutions to every problem appear by magic; Jean, sad at losing her one silk dress, is comforted by Mary's picturing how sweet a baby whale would look in it; Mr Peterkin is all but a storybook character; the girls are never troubled by the memory of a shipwreck in which many may have died (the calm Mary merely says to the crew, &quot;Will you please save us?&quot;)<br />It is an imaginative and fun book, half the fantasy of a magical world where whatever one needs appears on the spot, the other a warm look at responsibility and ingenuity.	2001-12-19
US	53009403	R113IYXXGEHP89	0064434516	794738507	Bedtime for Frances (Trophy Picture Books (Paperback))	Books	1	16	52	N	N	This is the ONE Frances book to avoid	I have found most books in this series to be very appealing to little children, and gentle and humorous into the bargain. However, this one could be all too easily misinterpreted! The story is based on the assumption that a child who cannot sleep is deliberately inventing excuses not to do so, and that genuine terror (which is a fact of life for many) that might cause such sleeplessness is imaginary and manipulative on the child's part, and can be dispelled by a fear of punishment.<br />This would be devastating for a child to believe - but all the more dangerous were such a viewpoint held by a parent who may have a child who has genuine insomnia or night terrors. The rest of the Frances series is worthwhile, but this one is a nightmare.	2001-12-19
US	53009403	R3BJ91LDACLS2D	0899663400	170539913	Five Little Peppers and How They Grew	Books	5	52	56	N	N	There is something special here	I recently re-read this book, which I'd enjoyed as a child (forty years ago). Today, it seems rather dismal to me - horrible poverty, illness, the pat happy ending and children who are horribly gushing over their mother. Yet, years back, what I most liked about the story was that, being a very independent and mature child myself, Polly and Ben succeed very well at taking on adult responsibilities.<br />Though I'm at a loss about explaining exactly how the author does so, I've found that this is a book which every reader interprets differently - and that shows an amazing depth. My own mother remembers reading it as a child, and being moved by the familial devotion and respect for the matriarch. As other posts here make clear, it can reach each of us on a different level.<br />This book is a worthy addition to any child's library. However, I'd leave a single caveat: do not use it to prompt &quot;a talk,&quot; especially on the &quot;look how good you have it today&quot; theme. Let the era introduce itself. It was a time of great poverty for many, yet also one which idealised a form of &quot;perfect&quot; family relationships which no one could hope to have. The combination of gritty realism with idealistic dreams has a message that kids will grasp on their own, and probably quite inventively.	2001-12-19
US	53009403	RU5OH5EMW9UBN	1888173289	650604434	Anybody Can Do Anything	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Perfectly delightful	Betty's greatest gift was for presenting situations that, in themselves, are far from funny, in a totally hilarious style. I've probably read this book annually for the past 35 years, and it never fails to delight.<br />Since my parents were of the Depression era, I had heard many a sad story from them and their friends, and Betty's knack for presenting her story with wry, often irreverent humour shows a genius of perspective. She manages to keep the reader laughing throughout descriptions of such &quot;un-funny&quot; matters as being unemployed, dealing with cruel bill collectors, temporary jobs in unfriendly offices, and having one's shoes disintegrate during a winter storm.<br />The Bards were clearly a very original, free-spirited family, and it appears that they'd gone from reasonably well off to poor. The cast of characters is delightful - from Mary's &quot;unofficial employment agency,&quot; to Dede's singing commercials, to Mother's jack of all trades accomplishments and unflapping ability to deal with bill collectors. The chapter on blind dates is as true as it is hilarious, and many of the descriptions of Betty's jobs (my favourite being when she tinted photographs) make one nearly believe that it must have been great fun to be chronically unemployed.<br />This is a fun and by no means &quot;self-help&quot; book, yet I can honestly say that, for all of these years, I've called Betty's positive attitude, where one may laugh at circumstances that could have been miserable, to mind many times when I faced difficulties of my own. (Though I, as well, often regretted winters when I charged five green party dresses!)	2001-12-18
US	53009403	R2HC9N55XL19PE	068483068X	716836572	Gone With the Wind	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Brilliant characterisation	Margaret Mitchell presents characters whose depth is astonishing, and depictions of varied relationships that can reach the reader on numerous levels. This is not merely a love story or glorified version of a tragic historical period, but an intense treatment of much of the paradox in human nature.<br />Regarding the racial issue - I would say that the depiction of blatant racism in this book is all the more powerful because everything is told from the Southern aristocrat's point of view. The characters need to believe, and have convinced themselves, that they are benevolent and affectionate towards their slaves! Yet they refer to these same people as &quot;apes&quot; without seeing their own horrifying stance. When Melanie, supposedly the soul of kindness, tells Ashley that, if they move North, they cannot let Beau attend school and &quot;have pickaninnies in his class,&quot; it shows the horror of racism just as clearly as if the reader had seen the miserable lot of the slaves.<br />Scarlett, certainly no heroine and one with no principles who'd like merely the reputation for being a &quot;great lady,&quot; is a most intriguing character. As Margaret Mitchell makes clear in many references, we have here one who is incapable of being at all analytical. (Except for Rhett, and, to some extent, Gerald, only Mammy can see through Scarlett's facade.) The Ashley she loves is a creation of her imagination - and it is interesting that, for all that she despises Melanie, the traits Melanie has which Scarlett most derides are very much the same as those in the Ellen that she idolises.<br />The book has so many fascinating characters that one could read it ten times and still find one has only scratched the surface. Those like myself, who cannot imagine too many settings they'd like to enter less than the &quot;old South,&quot; can find it interesting to explore the situation of those who find their entire world has collapsed around them.	2001-12-18
US	53009403	RMJOA1ZV95EKB	0060914289	742851701	The Egg and I	Books	2	11	30	N	N	The only one of Betty's books that I found boring	I have long been an ardent fan of Betty's hilarious (and very positive) books, with Anybody Can do Anything and Onions in the Stew amongst my all-time favourites. Yet I found this book, with the exception of the very beginning when she treats of her family history a bit, to be tedious and boring. Perhaps it was because the situation - living in the wilderness, isolated, in conditions out of the 18th century - was so dreadful that I shuddered inwardly at the very idea.<br />Actually, the premise of the book was quite original for its time. I have enough books popular during the 1950s to see that, at a time when a number of &quot;good sports&quot; were writing of adapting to wilderness conditions (some far worse than Betty's - which has no elements of children dying or life threatening illnesses), Betty had the ingenuity to show the other side of the picture. However, reading her later, far more polished works, makes one see how very raw her talent was at this point. Various characters, such as the Kettles, seem far more fictional and caricatured than those who appear in her later work.<br />Perhaps another reason that I dislike the Egg and I, while loving Betty's other books, is that there is a very unhappy undertone. All of Betty's books treat of some sad situations (one cannot do much worse than having tuberculosis!), but the overall feeling is very positive, and Betty's knack for finding humour seems part of a generally happy and accepting attitude. There is something very tragic about a &quot;city girl&quot; of only 18 so obviously marrying the wrong man, and one doubts that she would have gone through with it had she had the slightest notion of the living conditions ahead.	2001-12-18
US	53009403	RDDK8J0EYFCN0	1888173300	815140538	Onions in the Stew	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Hilarious	Betty's greatest talent was for describing situations that are quite banal, even rather troublesome, in a totally hilarious fashion. The situations are all the funnier for the reader's realisation that, in other hands, they could have been described as a tale of woe - where, in Betty's hands, they are delightful.<br />Financial crunches, months of futile searching for a residence, the adjustment of Betty and her children to a life with a new husband and stepfather (whose attitudes are quite different from those of a carefree Bard), living on an island where there are too many visitors and far too little accessibility for daily work and school, a beautiful neighbour's having her eyes on one's husband  - these could have been the stuff of whining or dreary &quot;self-help&quot; attitudes. Betty is far from sentimental, totally honest, yet approaches all from a highly positive attitude that nearly makes one envious. This book is also a fine reminder to today's concerned parents that having adolescent children was no joy ride, even 60 years ago.<br />My only criticism of Betty's writing is that, in her descriptions, she did not know when to stop. For example, her description of Vashon Island is engaging for the first two paragraphs, but rather excessive when it runs to several pages.<br />This is easily one of the funniest, and most honest, books I have ever read - and read I do, again and again, always finding it a refreshing treat.	2001-12-18
US	53009403	R4WMSMKIZAL23	0670888796	419595190	A Christmas Carol (Whole Story)	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Wonderful edition!	The combination of the unabridged (un-sanitised) version of Dickens' work, thorough background material, and quite delightful illustrations makes this volume a perfect Christmas gift or addition to one's own collection.	2001-12-18
US	53009403	R55CXSG5CE4PU	0722079133	167434013	Sixty Saints: Sixty Saints for Girls	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Fun, interesting reading for the very young	Being of a generation that remembers the treat of reading this book, I am delighted to see it return to print. For the very young reader, it can be a wonderful daily visit with various heavenly friends, and one to spark the imagination and perhaps a bit of devotion here and there.<br />The stories are basically selections from legends or particular aspects of saints' lives, presented in a rather &quot;story hour&quot; fashion. In fact, the narrative seems more like a favourite aunt telling a story than prose. The tales are not historically accurate in many cases, but there always is enough of solid underlying themes to get kids to learn them in spite of themselves.<br />My one caution is that this is strictly an &quot;early reader&quot; book. It is not accurate or thorough enough for anyone old enough to be doing research for a religion class, and anyone above the age of 8 is likely to find the constant definitions of words annoying. Nor is it a &quot;read aloud&quot; book for tiny ones. Joan's manner of expression, which basically has her &quot;telling&quot; the story in her own style, would make the words sound stilted in another's voice.<br />Joan Windham is an engaging, witty writer, and young girls of the current generation should enjoy this work as much as did their grandmothers.	2001-11-27
US	53009403	RZQSN9FCZLIT0	1568542399	725272924	Saying Amen: A Mystagogy of Sacrament	Books	3	9	10	N	Y	Solid theology, partially drowned in idealism	Kathleen Hughes provides a solid background, devoid of trendy cliches, covering mystagogy and contemplation in relation to the sacraments. Though a bit more historical perspective would have improved the approach, the underlying ideas are far sounder and more enlightening than in most popular books on the topic of liturgy.<br />Nonetheless, there are deficiencies. The idea of letting people speak of their experiences has some validity, but that many would have incorrect impressions of underlying doctrines is largely ignored. The author, quoting individual cases, is idealistic and, in effect, rather narrow, as if symbols (for example, immersion of a nude baby in baptism as far superior to other forms) thrill everyone and would be common in appeal to all.<br />The scholarship is rich, but some of the application a bit too &quot;parish discussion group&quot; for my own taste.	2001-11-27
US	53009403	R26H66P18W8NIE	0824511530	355843708	Why Catholics Can't Sing: The Culture of Catholicism and the Triumph of Bad Taste	Books	4	18	23	N	Y	Intelligent, but too bitter in spots	As one who also has a degree in musicology and experience as a church musician, I heartily concur with the majority of Day's writing. In the dreadful era when &quot;getting the people to sing&quot; seemed a goal on a par with getting them to heaven, the results were indeed dire, and Day wisely shows not only the effects of poor quality music but, perhaps more importantly, the theological deficiencies of the lyrics and style in &quot;concert&quot; with an overall trend towards worship that is totally centred on &quot;me.&quot;<br />One area which I found particularly interesting and realistic was the &quot;control&quot; and lack of emotion that was very typical of all Roman Catholic worship in the States - a legacy of those whose memories of Irish persecution affected their attitudes towards worship. (I shall not expound not to spoil this for a new reader.)<br />Nonetheless, Day's bitterness leads to a rather demeaning sarcasm, which at times makes him seem as much a narcissist as those he calls so. I myself loathe much of the &quot;new&quot; music, and agree wholeheartedly about the dreadful theology it underlies. I still wince at the constant references to the &quot;Mr Carusos&quot; (would-be opera singers) of the Church, and to the music groups who, in Day's estimation, purely want to be &quot;performers&quot; gaining applause. I've known far too many generous, dedicated people in both categories to believe, with Day, that their contribution to the liturgy is a pure ego game. (In fact, one area Day fails to treat, yet which would be highly relevant, is that, in the Anglican and Protestant congregations whose music he so praises, soloists and trained choirs enhance the liturgy both with classical music and their rendition of descants, harmonies, and the like even when the congregation sings. It seems the churches he describes could make good use of the people Day assumes are pure egotists, and there is no hint of how this could be done or even that it would be worthwhile.)<br />Though I find much of the &quot;easy listening&quot; folk music just as dreadful as does Day, the problem with his criticisms is that he does not know when to stop. For example, some of the songs that he considers so difficult that only trained professionals could manage them are the very ones which I've heard sung with much enthusiasm, even by school children. It seems unlikely that, for example, &quot;Sing to the Mountains&quot; (which I dislike as much as he does), which I've heard sung by kids no more than ten, is out of reach of a congregation - part of the reason music was always poor in RC churches is that everything was considered &quot;too difficult&quot; for the people, or to have too much of a range if it spanned more than four tones. I have also seen, many times, that the very songs Day considers too complicated are great favourites amongst regular church-goers - many Catholics (for reasons neither Day nor I could grasp) would count &quot;On Eagle's Wings&quot; as the selection they always hope to hear.<br />Roman Catholic music in the States was and remains abysmal, the more so now that the teenaged folk group members of the 1970s are diocesan directors of worship. Yet Day's approach, interesting and intelligent though it is, remains too narrow. He constantly stresses how simple and clumsy congregational singing must be, yet, for one who is a musician himself, spends so much time knocking other church musicians that one wonders from where this musical renaissance would come.thwhile.)<br />Though I find much of the &quot;easy listening&quot; folk music just as dreadful as does Day, the problem with his criticisms is that he does not know when to stop. For example, some of the songs that he considers so difficult that only trained professionals could manage them are the very ones which I've heard sung with much enthusiasm, even by school children. It seems unlikely that, for example, &quot;Sing to the Mountains&quot; (which I dislike as much as he does), which I've heard sung by kids no more than ten, is out of reach of a congregation - part of the reason music was always poor in RC churches is that everything was considered &quot;too difficult&quot; for the people, or to have too much of a range if it spanned more than four tones. I have also seen, many times, that the very songs Day considers too complicated are great favourites amongst regular church-goers - many Catholics (for reasons neither Day nor I could grasp) would count &quot;On Eagle's Wings&quot; as the selection they always hope to hear.<br />Roman Catholic music in the States was and remains abysmal, the more so now that the teenaged folk group members of the 1970s are diocesan directors of worship. Yet Day's approach, interesting and intelligent though it is, remains too narrow. He constantly stresses how simple and clumsy congregational singing must be, yet, for one who is a musician himself, spends so much time knocking other church musicians that one wonders from where this musical renaissance would come.	2001-11-06
US	53009403	R1MS6WTENJQYHQ	0316955116	573976986	City Boy	Books	5	28	31	N	N	Perhaps the funniest book I have ever read	This is one of those books which would be ruined were it translated to film. There really is no plot, just a lot of situations, yet Herman Wouk's descriptions of people and places, and the &quot;dialogue&quot; which takes place not only in words but in the imaginative Herbie's mind, are so hilarious that I can read this book annually (as I have since the 1960s) and laugh aloud each time.<br />Herbie is, to borrow Wouk's words, a &quot;facile fictioniser,&quot; whose elaborate tales become reality in his mind as he ponders or shares them. Though many of Wouk's &quot;side comments&quot; show sophistication, everyone is actually presented according to Herbie's point of view, with evil in this world &quot;traced mainly to adults or Lennie Krieger.&quot; This is actually far more accurate a depiction of an adolescent's mind (as also offered in the Tom Sawyer to whom Herbie is often and well compared) than one would see today. Those who would find the adult characters to be unbalanced in presentation must recall that Herbie would see only their main influence on him.<br />Though Herbie's crush on Lucille Glass is the source of much of the far-fetched action in this novel, this is not actually a romantic book. The reader, who can see through Lucille all too well, can enjoy Herbie's glorified version of her. One regular theme in this book, and one very true, is that the highly intelligent Herbie is so lost in dreams and ideals that those far less intellectually gifted (Cliff, Elmer Bean come to mind) actually have a far deeper grasp of the situations.<br />Though this is not a children's book, it certainly is suited for kids' reading. I would caution anyone who passes it on to a youngster not to ruin the book's delight by using it for &quot;a talk&quot; or to explain differences between &quot;then and now.&quot; Herbie's version of life, entirely his own self-centred and humorous creation, should not be muddied by Mrs Bookbinder's lack of career opportunities; whether he sees the girls only in relation to his own dreams (what 11-year-old would not?); or whether his bizarre midnight ride violated safety rules. (No parts of this plot are intended to be taken this seriously.) And anyone, in the context, would see Herbie's having to deal only with a spanking, not years behind bars, when he is... beyond naughty as a welcome substitute. The continuing theme in the book is that Herbie, like all children, never considers consequences for any action, and gets the message that such can exist - don't spoil the impact with a discussion of 1990s attitudes towards corporal punishment.<br />The characters are memorable, the camp settings a happy fiction of songs, shows, and remarkable freedom, and the school scenes enough to make anyone laugh in recognition. I, who am not a fan of Herman Wouk, count this as the funniest book on any of my many shelves.es the girls only in relation to his own dreams (what 11-year-old would not?); or whether his bizarre midnight ride violated safety rules. (No parts of this plot are intended to be taken this seriously.) And anyone, in the context, would see Herbie's having to deal only with a spanking, not years behind bars, when he is... beyond naughty as a welcome substitute. The continuing theme in the book is that Herbie, like all children, never considers consequences for any action, and gets the message that such can exist - don't spoil the impact with a discussion of 1990s attitudes towards corporal punishment.<br />The characters are memorable, the camp settings a happy fiction of songs, shows, and remarkable freedom, and the school scenes enough to make anyone laugh in recognition. I, who am not a fan of Herman Wouk, count this as the funniest book on any of my many shelves.	2001-09-06
US	53009403	R3TEHUGA7AMCR6	006092988X	892654736	A Tree Grows in Brooklyn	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Treats of every form of human love	A Tree Grows in Brooklyn has a depth of themes and characterisation sufficient for composition of a thesis on the topic, cleverly hidden in the depiction of banal, every day happenings. In the relationships depicted, one gains a deep picture of every form of love, with no minimising of the joy, pain, sacrifice, or strength which each presents. Heroine Francie is an intriguing character - both a dreamer, who always is looking for the happy ending, and a creature of habit in the midst of an otherwise individualistic family. She is a curious lonely child who realises, always after the fact, that her isolation was entirely her own doing. One can practically feel Francie's conflicts, for example in that, where she knows she should think her mother is noble and her father &quot;no good,&quot; she so favours Papa (and the reader can certainly see why.) I shall admit that one prominent theme kept me wondering - and this perhaps was the author's intention. There is much excessive patriotism in this book, as if everything is best just by being American (particularly if one was born in the States rather than an immigrant.) Francie's mother, Katie, is the sort of &quot;noble&quot; poor woman who would be acceptable to those believing in the American dream - totally hard-working, and ultimately rewarded by a marriage to a wealthy politician. Yet it is all too clear that Katie, the tolerable poor lady who insists she'll kill herself and her children before she'll take a basket from the Catholic Charities, is often the very source of her children's sufferings. Her pride has a very dark side which her dedication to hard work does not lessen - she would let her children starve, or leave a pleasant home for a dismal one, entirely because she needs to be superior, not equal to, those of her own class and background. Without giving away the ending to new readers, I must add that it has its paradoxical elements. The supposedly immense good fortune of the conclusion concurrently makes it clear that these people will be isolated from people and places which they had loved and enjoyed. In fact, the single poor point in the book's development is the trite rags to riches theme. These are only a few of many examples of the sort of gritty realism, countered by warmth and humour, which make this book so fascinating. It is easy and engaging reading on one level, but enormousely insightful and complex. There is no stock &quot;good and evil&quot; or &quot;right and wrong,&quot; nor are situations resolved in any fashion neater than that of &quot;true life.&quot; It is true that there is no actual plot, but I believe that this is key. Betty Smith is giving us much truth about life and love, which never fits into a clean story line. Even the minor characters provide strong depictions of the beauty, weakness, and complexity of human nature.clear that these people will be isolated from people and places which they had loved and enjoyed. In fact, the single poor point in the book's development is the trite rags to riches theme. These are only a few of many examples of the sort of gritty realism, countered by warmth and humour, which make this book so fascinating. It is easy and engaging reading on one level, but enormousely insightful and complex. There is no stock &quot;good and evil&quot; or &quot;right and wrong,&quot; nor are situations resolved in any fashion neater than that of &quot;true life.&quot; It is true that there is no actual plot, but I believe that this is key. Betty Smith is giving us much truth about life and love, which never fits into a clean story line. Even the minor characters provide strong depictions of the beauty, weakness, and complexity of human nature.	2001-08-28
US	53009403	R1XIWS05XMRV8I	0830817778	945789441	Dictionary of Jesus and the Gospels (The IVP Bible Dictionary Series)	Books	5	73	79	N	Y	Excellent resource - but don't make it the only one	The information in this book is comprehensive, well-referenced (including mention of non-scriptural resources related to the period), and quite absorbing. I found myself moving from one cross reference to another, avidly seeking the information which &quot;fleshed out&quot; the accounts, and made the meanings of scriptural texts, even those I had studied a number of times, richer and more complete. The relation of gospel texts, particularly Jesus's parables, miracles and the like, to historical perspectives is well done. There also is a valuable section relating how to use gospel texts in preparing sermons. In total, it is a fine reference for placing Jesus's words in context, and understanding the actions of those with whom he dealt. (For example, look up the article on Pontius Pilate... his fear at &quot;you are no friend of Caesar&quot; has an interesting and very natural basis.) With this said, however, this valuable book should not be one's only reference for scripture study. My five stars are for the book as it is intended - a &quot;dictionary,&quot; with extensive and often fascinating explanations. It is not sufficient for most scriptural exegesis or advanced New Testament study, particularly because it is strictly composed from an evangelical perspective. Many distinguished contemporary scholars (Raymond Brown, N.T. Wright, E.P. Sanders, to name a few), equally orthodox in their Christology, would have viewpoints that are far less literalist than this work provides. Just as two minor examples, the Dictionary sees no reason to doubt that the apostle Matthew was the author of the first gospel, and the idea that the visit of the Magi was completely, literally true (with no allowance for its being a midrash at all) is unquestioned. The entire approach in this work is extremely conservative. I would place this book on the shelf of anyone studying the gospels, but it would be one of at least five.	2001-08-26
US	53009403	RPIQWUDQTRLMI	080198758X	803439103	Life Is Not a Dress Size: Rita Farro's Guide to Attitude, Style, and a New You	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Delightful, positive, and very useful	It was such a pleasure to read a book (aimed at the &quot;gifted&quot;) which shows a delightful awareness that fashion should be fun and reflect individual style. Unlike other books aimed at this market, this one is neither a dreary &quot;self-help&quot; approach nor an appeal to look &quot;professional&quot; (which, especially in NYC, generally means &quot;dowdy.&quot;) This book should be on the shelf of everyone who enjoys both sewing and individuality in fashion, not only those who are plus sized. Rita's humour makes the reading marvellously original - her style gives a sense of sheer (or, perhaps, &quot;shear&quot;) enjoyment. I especially liked her emphasis on colour and adapting patterns. For some, Rita's taste may seem a bit over the top (even I, who have rather bold tastes, would find the &quot;carwash skirt&quot; a little much), but her ideas can be adapted to the reader's personal style. For example, the &quot;suit types&quot; can use Rita's swing coat in any fabric, over a simple dress, and both have an &quot;office look&quot; and avoid the skirt-and-blouse cutoff point that is unflattering to most large women. Rita, most refreshingly, does not offer stock &quot;self-help&quot; talk, nor does she explore the current trends towards relating size to &quot;issues&quot; or &quot;self-esteem.&quot; This is pure fashion, where building on one's own style and tastes makes for a wonderful look.	2001-08-25
US	53009403	R1RDN337EZGB8X	0312187475	666745102	Mistress Anne	Books	3	19	22	N	N	Rather ponderous and off track	In a manner which I have found unfortunately typical of Carolly Erickson's writing, &quot;Mistress Anne&quot; contains many details about court life (including &quot;trivia&quot; not typical of books on the subject), yet not enough about Anne herself. The rather rambling references to, for example, Anne's days at the French court became tedious. My impression was of a collection of material which could be interesting in a &quot;classroom lecture&quot; setting, where it is assumed that the hearers are studying the entire era and would enjoy tidbits not found in their textbooks, but which makes boring reading on its own.	2001-08-24
US	53009403	RTVKXPLOSTM3T	0312187068	408618858	Bloody Mary	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Much information, yet rather tedious	As one with a passion for studying the Tudor era, I was surprised to find this work to be quite disappointing overall. The research, especially regarding life at court (which, in fact, too often was the topic rather than Mary herself), is painstaking and thorough. Yet the style of writing, and tangents related to &quot;minor players,&quot; somehow is very tedious, or even downright boring.<br />To her credit, Carolly Erickson well develops the thesis that Mary was not only a fervent Catholic but one who, in view of her life's circumstances, saw everything in monumental terms, and herself as one with a divine mission. She does capture the pain and misery which Mary endured, with the portrait becoming sympathetic enough that even those (such as myself) for whom Mary is hardly a favourite can empathise. Yet it is a bland portrait, leading me to page through tedious sections waiting for some &quot;bite.&quot;<br />Of all the Tudors, and for all of their less than commendable traits, Mary is the one about whom there is the least positive material to counterbalance, and Carolly Erickson's balanced portrayal of her does fill a gap in what is available. Still, even for a Tudor buff, this is not an engaging read.	2001-08-23
US	53009403	R18VTTBB8RY1IH	0833521810	122665065	The Wonderful Flight To The Mushroom Planet (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Fun and absorbing	Eleanor Cameron blends science fiction elements with everyday happenings so skillfully that anyone from &quot;space nut&quot; to those not normally favouring sci-fi can love the end result. That this book was written long before Voyager (or even Apollo) does not matter, and in fact it does present some interesting &quot;space knowledge.&quot; The description, for example, of Mr Bass's paintings of other planets is no less intriguing today than it was forty years ago.<br />The boys' embarking on a space journey with the nonchalance of going to summer camp is delightful - and totally believable! The reader is tempted to search the newspapers for ads similar to the one they answered. I'll not reveal the details, to avoid spoiling them for new readers, but the awareness the boys reach during their few hours on Basidium is an extremely valuable lesson which few people or countries would grasp.<br />I used this book, some years ago, when teaching children aged 10 and 11 - most of whom loved the Mushroom Planet. Interestingly, the kids' one criticism of the book is one that I had long had - and not shared with them. The ending is a bit irritating, because Mr Bass's situation suddenly, totally contradicts all that went before, and all of his tales of his own discovery of Basidium. Other than that, this is first rate kid lit.	2001-08-22
US	53009403	RWTGMMEESNXF4	0448400413	333502951	The Little Engine That Could: 60th Anniversary Edition	Books	4	22	25	N	N	Too bad it is abridged	The current self-help genre tends to be dwelling on hurts and self-pity, then finding magical solutions. Our Little Engine just has healthy self-confidence and determination. And please don't stress even that when reading it to the kids who will love it, since they find their own more imaginative interpretations.<br />The unabridged version is a lifetime favourite of mine, and, for classroom use or that with older children, find a copy at all costs. This version does retain much of the essence, however, and is great for the pre-school set. The only \\"negative\\" I can think of is that the kids so love the repetition that parents may grow a bit tired of the daily requests for it to be re-read, especially if the particular child wants to hear only certain sections (I knew one who always wanted \\"the clown part,\\" the other \\"the food part.\\")<br />The same enjoyable repetition makes this a favourite story to read to children in primary grades. Yes, be sure you don't stop the kids from all joining in \\"I think I can...\\"<br />This remains one book that every favourite kid of mine receives as a present. If it disappoints any of your children, that will be a first, in my experience!	2001-08-22
US	53009403	R2Z7J2EIQ77JPM	0800626826	496431751	Jesus and the Victory of God (Christian Origins and the Question of God, Volume 2)	Books	4	15	17	N	Y	Insightful, thorough, and often brilliant scholarship	I am refraining from a very lengthy treatment of the topics in Wright's book largely because other reviewers have treated them in such depth. Overall, Wright sets forth an extremely well supported argument, placing Jesus's work in a context of the Jewish prophetic tradition which is completely orthodox yet far from what most would consider &quot;conventional&quot; devotional approaches. He well refutes &quot;Jesus Seminar&quot; types, though his tendency to dismiss prestigious scholars in a few sentences does seem a bit smug at times.<br />My difficulty was in being left with some rather puzzling questions, which is why I withheld a &quot;fifth star.&quot; Much of Wright's thesis is built on Jesus's message having been highly grounded in an apocalyptic tradition (which Wright explains clearly and in depth), and on its being quite revolutionary (in the sense of &quot;going against the grain,&quot; not inciting to violence.) Wright develops two points in this category - first, that Jesus's message greatly used familiar images yet presented them in a fashion which was shocking because it &quot;re-wrote&quot; the underlying tales of exodus and vindication and applied them to Himself. Secondly, Wright sets forth that these messages had to be carefully cloaked or they would have incited the people to riot. He particularly uses the parables' messages to illustrate both themes.<br />Unless the first-century hearers had read Tom Wright's work, there are several, glaring loose ends in this argument. However familiar images of exodus, exile, and restoration may have been, and however well embedded in the thought of scholars at Qumran, it does not seem credible that an audience of fishermen, carpenters, and tent-makers would have immediately connected the parable of the Prodigal Son with the images of Israel and Jesus as the deliverer King which Wright develops. Indeed, the Temple scholars may have seen the subtle message, but how would this cause a general riot, particularly if the message was deliberately obscure?<br />Many sections of the book are true &quot;eye openers,&quot; particularly those dealing with the prophetic and apocalyptic aspects of Jesus's ministry. It is generally a brilliant work, well-suited for personal reading but also for use as a university or adult education text.f the message was deliberately obscure?<br />Many sections of the book are true &quot;eye openers,&quot; particularly those dealing with the prophetic and apocalyptic aspects of Jesus's ministry. It is generally a brilliant work, well-suited for personal reading but also for use as a university or adult education text.	2001-08-21
US	53009403	RAYKMG2OH0K1T	1930051204	423743862	St.  Therese of Lisieux: A Transformation in Christ	Books	4	19	20	N	Y	Thomas Keating can do far better than this	At his best, Thomas Keating is an inspired spiritual writer, whose work can lead one both to greater awareness of the divine life and much intellectual stimulation. None of his work is free of a tendency to stretch quotations from scripture to make a point, yet, in such works as The Mystery of Christ, the overall impact is powerful and thought-provoking.<br />With this said, A Transformation in Christ is highly disappointing. It actually references little in Th&eacute;r&egrave;se's life and work, and seems very contrived - as if the idea for connecting the parables and Th&eacute;r&egrave;se's spirituality was a fine one until the author put pen to paper. The parables are presented as if Father Keating were recording some random thoughts during a meditation, and do not include exegesis or in depth treatment.<br />One with Father Keating's ability should have produced far better than this, particularly considering that neither Th&eacute;r&egrave;se nor Jesus leave one with a paltry amount of material with which to work.	2001-08-17
US	53009403	R2J22D9L9K1Q35	0385029039	171021797	The Autobiography of Saint Therese of Lisieux: The Story of a Soul	Books	3	7	8	N	N	The essence is intensely powerful	Initially, in fact for many years, I found Th&eacute;r&egrave;se's sweet, rather childish means of expression to be so trying that I failed to see the stark realism and love in her work. Though I still do not favour her literary style or means of expression, this book contains both a solid approach to spirituality and the picture of one who, contrary to first impressions, was actually a complex and fascinating personality.<br />One underlying truth is both that God works with whatever &quot;material&quot; our personalities and circumstances present, and that the influence of others in our lives is equally important. Th&eacute;r&egrave;se is an intriguing study in contrasts: so timid that attending school was too much for her, yet so determined and willful that she would approach Pope Leo himself (against all instruction!) to petition him to allow her to enter the Carmel at 15.<br />Th&eacute;r&egrave;se's writing of herself is completely without affectation or reserve. One delicious example, quite humorous yet giving the reader the picture of an intense and somewhat melancholy interior struggle, is that of her heroically remaining cheerful when she overhears her father expressing annoyance that, as a teenager, Th&eacute;r&egrave;se still expects her shoes to be filled by Pere Noel. This story naturally has its hilarious side. Not only was Th&eacute;r&egrave;se far past the age when Father Christmas might be expected to visit, but she was convinced of and actively pursuing a vocation to the austerity of Carmelite life.  It is more humorous yet that, as an adult nun, she would include this as an example of the practise of virtue.<br />Yet, for all that the incident makes one smile, it does capture a very important truth, key in Th&eacute;r&egrave;se's spirituality. The intention and the offering are what matter, rather than the greatness of the act. Most of us could certainly feel for an exhausted, widower father, already in his fifties, whose adolescent daughter is attached to ritual more suited to those less than half her age. Yet, for one with Th&eacute;r&egrave;se's sensitivity and great devotion to her father, the wound of the words undoubtedly was intense.<br />Th&eacute;r&egrave;se's oft quoted line about wanting to be a plaything for the Child Jesus seems to border on the saccharine, yet is powerful in the entire context of her life (recalling that this was one who, at a very young age, suffered a breakdown.) The message is quite strong: whether she was the favourite toy, or the one left in the toy box, all that mattered was to whom she belonged.<br />Th&eacute;r&egrave;se's wisdom is apparently that the offering is what matters, however little or obscure one's life is. That she turned a will as powerful as hers clearly is to a single-minded devotion to God is a great witness to divine grace's power coupled with that of a loving heart.<br />This is a book to be read without the temptations of falling into sentimentality. The greatest power is much &quot;between the lines.&quot;one with Thérèse's sensitivity and great devotion to her father, the wound of the words undoubtedly was intense. <br />Thérèse's oft quoted line about wanting to be a plaything for the Child Jesus seems to border on the saccharine, yet is powerful in the entire context of her life (recalling that this was one who, at a very young age, suffered a breakdown.) The message is quite strong: whether she was the favourite toy, or the one left in the toy box, all that mattered was to whom she belonged.<br />Thérèse's wisdom is apparently that the offering is what matters, however little or obscure one's life is. That she turned a will as powerful as hers clearly is to a single-minded devotion to God is a great witness to divine grace's power coupled with that of a loving heart.<br />This is a book to be read without the temptations of falling into sentimentality. The greatest power is much &quot;between the lines.&quot;	2001-08-16
US	53009403	R2G5GV4K5Q10CO	0226653773	8536765	The Christian Tradition: A History of the Development of Doctrine, Vol. 4: Reformation of Church and Dogma (1300-1700)	Books	5	44	45	N	Y	Superb - comprehensive and systematic	Jaroslav Pelikan, whose works always are very thorough and show a genuinely diverse collection of thought, has produced an outstanding volume which guides the reader through the often dark and stormy seas of Reformation theology. Part of the brilliance of the presentation is that it is not a strictly chronological, historical account. The thought of various Reformation era theologians are systematically set forth according to the doctrines they explored. As a result, one can see a total picture of the theological issues at stake, and why various theologians found a particular matter of crucial importance.<br />Pelikan wisely begins with the fourteenth century developments, which seldom are treated in the context of the later Reformation but were highly influential. One example, that makes later developments quite clear, is how theologians debated many doctrinal points during the very century when one would think all that prevailed was Thomism. It also is intriguing, reading through the various chapters, how Augustinian ideas (including those mis-read) were key to both Protestant and Catholic points of view by the sixteenth century.<br />The only drawback to using this volume is that, though the research and collection of quotes from varied sources is impeccable, one must constantly check the margins, where the names of authors and documents are abbreviated, to know &quot;who wrote what.&quot;<br />Pelikan's work is unique for its truly systematic presentation of all viewpoints in Reformation thought, integrated with an introduction to the earlier theology which would be influential, and the &quot;re-affirmation&quot; Catholic efforts of Trent. The result is a smooth, comprehensive, understandable, and enlightening whole.	2001-08-06
US	53009403	R1R4NX4KI6N6X2	0385468717	698264862	Abandonment to Divine Providence (Image Classics)	Books	3	22	41	N	N	Worth a look for historical perspective	For a divinity scholar to dislike DeCaussade is rather like a film buff's not caring for Citizen Kane - it just is not done, since it is universally considered a great classic. I would recommend this book as a means of seeing how a popular spirituality, in marked contrast to Jansenistic or eternal Pelagian thought, was quite popular in DeCaussade's time and place. However, I have some serious problems with the work as a whole.<br />Essentially, DeCaussade's emphasis on how one may only serve God in the circumstances in which one finds oneself is wise - and indeed, with the proper disposition, offering of any &quot;present moment&quot; can be a gift of grace. Those who are fond of the writings of Th&eacute;r&egrave;se of Lisieux will see that this viewpoint has a marked resemblance to her &quot;little way.&quot; Nonetheless, where Th&eacute;r&egrave;se's means of expression, and consideration of her circumstances, give this approach an enduring realism and charm, DeCaussade's presentation seems quite close to both quietism (a passivity which, apart from theological deficiencies, often can lead one to a sense of helplessness and despair) and rationalism.<br />Since the work is a collection of letters and conference notes, many readers undoubtedly will find it as ponderous as did I. It becomes tiresome when the same, single point is made, again and again.<br />The quasi-quietism which I previously mentioned may be useful to those of a particular spiritual mindset, in which there is a primary emphasis on resignation in suffering. For those who, by contrast, are searching for some sense of hope in a &quot;present moment&quot; that is hellish, DeCaussade often seems lacking in compassion, sometimes to a point of bordering on cruelty. For example, his words of &quot;comfort&quot; to one who is suffering the grief of bereavement are that &quot;God wants to be your only friend.&quot; It is solid to believe that divine providence can work in painful circumstances, but seeing these tragic times as inflicted by God (the passage I quoted can easily be taken as implying that a beloved friend died to accomplish God's purpose of one's being totally alone!) can lead one to run from, rather than embrace, faith.<br />I gave this book three stars because a few of its basic ideas are excellent: the importance of turning the will towards God, trust as essential to true faith, and not turning from today's chance for good in looking towards a future one cannot foresee. I certainly consider it a part of a well-rounded viewpoint of spirituality. But, for personal spiritual reading or use of ideas in pastoral application, I believe it has, at best, a limited appeal, and can be detrimental unless it is only one part of a far larger scope of knowledge.flicted by God (the passage I quoted can easily be taken as implying that a beloved friend died to accomplish God's purpose of one's being totally alone!) can lead one to run from, rather than embrace, faith.<br />I gave this book three stars because a few of its basic ideas are excellent: the importance of turning the will towards God, trust as essential to true faith, and not turning from today's chance for good in looking towards a future one cannot foresee. I certainly consider it a part of a well-rounded viewpoint of spirituality. But, for personal spiritual reading or use of ideas in pastoral application, I believe it has, at best, a limited appeal, and can be detrimental unless it is only one part of a far larger scope of knowledge.	2001-08-01
US	53009403	R1ZSNOVC0WDN7W	0809139847	175830582	Following the Way: Jesus Our Spiritual Director	Books	3	3	5	N	Y	None of the author's usual flair was present	Being one who savoured the banquets of Gerald O'Collins previous works regarding Christology and the Trinity, I rushed to purchase this book before the ink was dry. There was no new banquet - at best, it seemed an impromptu picnic.<br />Gerald O'Collins' other works show him to be a brilliant theologian, original in presentation and gifted in deep but clear expression. Following the Way provides none of the intellectual stimulation and reflection which I had expected. The reflections on the parables which form its content are devoid of any in-depth exegesis, let alone strong treatment of the spiritual life.<br />I gave it a &quot;medium&quot; rating because it does have its uses. It is suitable for a parish discussion group or secondary school class, particularly because there are prayers, exercises, and (rather mediocre) discussion questions at the end of each chapter. Yet the entire effort was far below O'Collins' usual standard. It seemed more a collection of mediocre sermons or casual commentary than the stimulating works of a superb theologian.	2001-07-31
US	53009403	R1ABJYW8W3SVFN	0807012408	65793339	Resurrecting Grace: Remembering Catholic Childhoods	Books	2	6	12	N	N	Overall disappointment	Considering the calibre of the writers from whom Marilyn Sewell requested memories, the low quality of both the writing and &quot;storytelling&quot; in this book is abysmal. Most of the memories had little substance, and the tone of many essays was so poor that I had the impression the authors had scribbled them on cocktail napkins in a rush.<br />With few exceptions (Thomas Merton's section, for example), the recollections were boring and lacked any sort of bite. Neither humorous, nostalgic, nor thought-provoking, the tales would leave one constantly turning the pages, hoping some substance would follow. The quest for the Holy Grail would be less futile than that for any wit or charm in this book.<br />The promise of the title undoubtedly would prompt people to order this book as a gift for a Catholic friend or a hope of memories for oneself. I strongly suggest that potential readers at least take a glimpse at a copy on a library shelf first.	2001-07-31
US	53009403	RZJQ2DRQO210M	0800631315	192035059	Holy Things: A Liturgical Theology	Books	3	22	24	N	Y	Ranges from superb to puzzling	The early chapters of this work are both engrossing and likely to spur reflection. The excellent descriptions of various areas of liturgical theology not only provide the reader with significant background but include &quot;eye catching&quot; points which make well-known liturgical formulae suddenly have at least three new, powerful meanings. For example, Lathrop's explanations of how Jesus used metaphor in His parables, and of how this gives varied meanings to the &quot;holy things&quot; of worship, are exceptional.<br />The later sections of the book, for example those dealing with the &quot;meal&quot; aspects of worship, did not have the clarity and beauty which the beginning seemed to promise. Lathrop proposes questions without offering possible answers, and those (who are not of Lathrop's degree of knowledge in the subject) who seek to use this book to improve worship in their congregations may well be left with feeling they are back where they started.<br />Lathrop's book is wortwhile and interesting, but rather limited in its application.	2001-07-27
US	53009403	R31XPUFDYZPK4D	0631215212	73240351	Reformation Thought: An Introduction	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	Very comprehensive view	Alister McGrath's combination of thorough details, superb historical  perspectives, and rare clarity of expression achieve a feat unusual in  the theological realm - the ideas, however deep, are easily  understood. McGrath sets forth not only the convictions of the great  players in the Reformation, but the social and philosophical ideas  which preceded the era, the outcome being a remarkably expert  tapestry of thought. This era is one I have studied extensively in the  past, yet the connections McGrath presents, and the insights of new  scholarship which he incorporates, left me totally engrossed.<br />  As one example, McGrath's development of Martin Luther's progress  in theological ideas makes such areas as justification by faith all the  more fascinating in their historical context.<br />McGrath has a rather elegant fashion of presenting the thoughts of the fathers of the Reformation, for example, in avoiding much discussion of Luther's personal conflicts and very salty language! This is wise in an introductory text, avoiding tangents for the reader.<br />  This work is suited to anyone with a serious interest in the period or  theology, and as a text for the university or later years of secondary  education. I must add that those wishing a &quot;lighter read&quot; will find  many of the major issues and historical points treated in McGrath's  latest work, &quot;In the Beginning.&quot;work, &quot;In the Beginning.&quot;	2001-07-27
US	53009403	R21GL0XTNIGPZ3	0226653757	197996490	The Christian Tradition: A History of the Development of Doctrine, Vol. 3: The Growth of Medieval Theology (600-1300)	Books	5	21	24	N	Y	Very comprehensive reference	Jaroslav Pelikan, once again, provides readers with a thorough, pluralistic view of the major theological thoughts and innovations of the period. The work, which thankfully does not ignore the Eastern church and therefore gives a truly comprehensive picture, is based on quotations from major theologians, and neither is speculative nor dilutes the writings by trying to fit them into a modern mold.<br />This book is a superb reference for students of theology and history, and definitely &quot;fills in the blanks&quot; for anyone with a limited view of medieval theology. Pelikan's writing is surprisingly readable, though it is sometimes cumbersome to have to keep checking the &quot;marginalia&quot; and separate listing of sources to ascertain who wrote what. It is purely a scholarly work, and not likely to please those looking for engaging narratives, but is invaluable for those with a serious interest in the subjects.	2001-07-24
US	53009403	R1FE5LSBK3I6YE	038549890X	211011926	In the Beginning: The Story of the King James Bible and How it Changed a Nation, a Language, and a Culture	Books	5	3	7	N	Y	Thorough, complete, and quite witty as well	Alister McGrath has a gift for clarity of expression and unbiased treatment of the theological thought and history of any era of which he writes. In the Beginning, unlike his more scholarly works, makes the periods surrounding that of the King James Bible very accessible, even to those who have little knowledge of the time. His highly readable, often hilarious, style provides a very easily understood, very comprehensive treatment of both the theology and politics of the High Middle Ages and Reformation times.	2001-07-19
US	53009403	RY4HEFOC29RDI	0631198490	497542293	Christian Theology	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Very comprehensive and easy to grasp	Alister McGrath's combination of thorough details, superb historical perspectives, and rare clarity of expression achieve a feat unusual in the theological realm - the ideas, however deep, are easily understood. McGrath sets forth not only the convictions of the great players in the Reformation, but the social and philosophical ideas which preceded the era, the outcome being a remarkably expert tapestry of thought. This era is one I have studied extensively in the past, yet the connections McGrath presents, and the insights of new scholarship which he incorporates, left me totally engrossed.<br />As one example, McGrath's development of Martin Luther's progress  in theological ideas makes such areas as justification by faith all the more fascinating in their historical context.<br />This work is suited to anyone with a serious interest in the period or theology, and as a text for the university or later years of secondary education. I must add that those wishing a &quot;lighter read&quot; will find many of the major issues and historical points treated in McGrath's latest work,  &quot;In the Beginning.&quot;	2001-07-19
US	53009403	R13U3CHGDQ94WS	0807847747	617556437	Spirited Lives: How Nuns Shaped Catholic Culture and American Life, 1836-1920	Books	2	4	12	N	N	Very one dimensional	The authors, unwittingly I'm sure, set forth a problem that has affected every religious group in the United States: the &quot;American way&quot; is foremost, and religious belief and practise carefully modified in a subordinate role. The accomplishments of religious Sisters are undeniable, and the book has some merit in treating of their role in a nation that was predominantly Protestant, yet the authors would leave one in the dark about the solid religious principles (ascetic, and generally misunderstood) which motivated many of those in religious life. One would think their sole purpose in life was to make people &quot;more American.&quot;<br />Research is often poor, and sometimes beyond naive. For example, though any immigrant or working class kid knows better, the authors seem at their wits' end to set forth the &quot;classless&quot; American society and its &quot;nobility.&quot; That the Sisters of Saint Joseph established private schools which charged tuition fees, as well as free schools, is presented as a desperate measure, to which people were opposed because of the American dislike for class. To imply that the wealthy could not bear having their children attend a private school for this reason is about as accurate as seeing nineteenth century nuns, who could not wash their handkerchiefs without permission, as having unusual freedom.<br />Where is the true Catholicism? I doubt the founding fathers or pilgrims would see it as compatible with the American dream.	2001-06-20
US	53009403	R1CUH005F1RN6M	0449911683	968250752	My Name Is Asher Lev	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Intensely powerful themes - Potok's best	Though, at first glance, Chaim Potok seems to be presenting merely the story of development of a great artist, the powerful characterisation (even with supposedly minor figures) weaves a tale of concepts of good and evil as the affect the world as a whole. When the young Asher Lev tells his teacher that the Hasid believes it his duty to make the world holy, it is no lip service to formulae of piety. In their own ways, and in the setting of an era and people dominated by the evils of Stalin, all of the characters are seeking meaning, ways of spreading the Jewish commitment to the true God, and personal responsibility to participate in this mission.<br />Since Asher's use of images of the crucifixion of Jesus is constant from very early on, it will spoil nothing if I mention a theme that is very pronouced at the point where Asher produces his masterpiece. Asher's father, and generations of the family before him, had a mission of atonement. Asher's adapting the Christian symbol of atonement in expressing this is brilliant and very intense. (I do not wish to spoil the action and awareness that develops this theme for the new reader of this work, but pay close attention!)<br />The development of a distinguished artist in a climate which, in his earliest years, he learns is &quot;not a pretty world&quot; leaves the reader with much matter for thought and powerful emotion. It is a brilliant work.	2001-06-14
US	53009403	R2VJY9VCGNEACW	0609805827	210445606	The Calling: A Year in the Life of an Order of Nuns	Books	2	3	5	N	Y	No part sufficient for a whole to develop	The overall sense I received from this work is that Catherine Whitney is more interested in speaking of herself (without so much as answering the question of  why she suddenly shifted from would-be religious Sister to unbelieving radical feminist). The anecdotal information about several Sisters in the earlier chapters seems a promise of real development later, but this promise remains unfulfilled.<br />Half stories, some of which seem flavoured by stereotypes and prejudiced assumptions, are profoundly unsatisfying, particularly since the natural presumption to which the early chapters would lead was that depth, development, and understanding of the various Sisters' situations would follow. It did not happen. There is a sampling of moments from various Sisters' lives (not, as the sub-title implies, a chronicle of a year in the life of an Order), but no insight into anything.	2001-06-14
US	53009403	R7MK3FJP3O1TN	0198755023	854259094	Christology: A Biblical, Historical, and Systematic Study of Jesus Christ	Books	5	39	43	N	N	Superb - balanced, thorough, and original	Gerald O'Collins' impeccable scholarship presents the reader with a critical view of 2,000 years of thought regarding Jesus, and draws conclusions that are both fresh and orthodox. He is particularly talented in clarity of expression, and of explaining how ideas of various great theologians were useful or were misinterpreted in light of later historical developments.<br />I personally read this work as one of many studies in Christology, and anyone pursuing graduate study in theology knows how ideas can begin to all sound alike when the volume is high. Though I was new to Gerald O'Collins work, I found it so absorbing and stimulating (amazing, when one is wading through volumes) that it opened new doors of consideration in my own pursuit.<br />Though O'Collins's presentation of doctrine could not offend the Grand Inquisitor himself, this is no stale &quot;fidelity to the magisterium&quot; approach - the explanations are detailed, often including original insights, and refute any ideas which O'Collins sees as spoiling the integration of Christology and spirituality in the life of the Church. Whether it is Macquarrie, Schilebeecx, or Thomas Aquinas with whom he has a point of disagreement, the reasoning is excellent, and, whether one holds the same viewpoint or not, one can only greet the result with a certain degree of awe.	2001-06-14
US	53009403	RFZ0RNKOUQEIE	0529064847	925558508	The New American Bible (With the Revised Book of Psalms and the Revised New Testament)	Books	2	27	56	N	N	Far better translations are available	Granted - this is the version forced into the lectionary of the Roman Catholic churches in the United States, but that is understandable considering the bishops held the copyright. I gave this a &quot;two&quot; rather than a &quot;one&quot; only because it is not so bad as a few popular bibles which are mere paraphrases.<br />Though the content is not inaccurate, it seems the authors were so desperately trying to be &quot;super-American&quot; that they translated passages into American slang, ironically not realising how that can vary according to region and era. For example, in the parable of the Prodigal Son, generations would have understood the word &quot;harlot,&quot; where &quot;loose women&quot; does not have the same accuracy.<br />For a contemporary, accurate version of the Bible, in non-slaughtered language, try the Revised English Bible.	2001-04-18
US	53009403	R1Z3D06ZPL4Q2K	0892816619	990729845	Hildegard von Bingen's Physica: The Complete English Translation of Her Classic Work on Health and Healing	Books	2	50	78	N	Y	Useful solely as a historical reference	From what I had read concerning this book and other works of Hildegarde's, I had assumed that it would be useful for one interested in herbal medicine. Though I fondly smiled at remedies involving unicorn horn, and at cautions about avoiding the meat of the gryphon, I was very disappointed that there were no useful  ideas, for all that I respect the skill of the medieval herbalists. Entries are merely Hildegard's description of a plant or animal and its humours.	2001-04-06
US	53009403	R3MNLNWYMSR7GG	0688154581	824503605	For the Love of God: The Faith and Future of the American Nun	Books	3	8	8	N	Y	Some quite insightful, some gross inaccuracy	Overall, &quot;For the Love of God&quot; is an interesting exposition of various Sisters' approaches to their vocations, and Lucy Kaylin illustrates a surprising respect and recognition for the religious life for one who is not a believer (much beyond many who are!) Perhaps because Lucy is totally new to &quot;the topic,&quot; and not a Christian, she cannot be faulted for taking at face value some Sisters' impressions which are far from a univeral picture of the attitudes of religious women.<br />Though Lucy obviously has interviewed many Sisters, and indeed attempts to include comments from a cross section, the majority of in depth space is given to two extremes of the spectrum: a cloistered, very traditional Benedictine, and radical feminist nuns who are intensely bitter towards the clergy. Many Sisters (and I know hundreds) have much experience in extremely fruitful, enriching contact and work with priests, and Lucy's depiction of a nun's motherly attitude as one of protecting children from (supposedly) clergy who are a mass of paedophiles is beyond inaccurate - it is slanderous.<br />Though Lucy seems to have respect for the Sisters' dedication and conviction (even if sarcasm intrudes now and then), there are times when one must shake one's head at her attitudes. For example, the specific mention of her wondering whether some nuns (who are overweight... a condition that I had thought existed in all classes of society) found shelter in religious life from the abuse that society gives heavy women indicated a confused and condescending stereotype.<br />I'm sure many readers will find this material fascinating or enlightening, but it is far from a comprehensive look at the attitudes of religious women.	2001-04-01
US	53009403	R1GASQL8VYD7AS	0060608161	10055777	The Day Christ Died	Books	3	13	30	N	N	Well done for its time	Jim Bishop's interesting and reverent work is suited for a Good Friday afternoon of meditation, and he manages to make it quite entertaining reading. Nonetheless, even allowing for the fictional elements, Jim's research would be contradicted by the findings of scripture scholars during the past three decades. His book would not serve for an accurate picture of first century Palestine, the authorship of the gospels, and so forth for serious study in 2001.	2001-03-27
US	53009403	R7I8MPZ70CNXU	1561011339	379139804	Finding Home: Stories of Roman Catholics Entering the Episcopal Church	Books	2	21	40	N	Y	Altogether, rather discouraging	It indeed is interesting that Roman Catholics, taught grave misconceptions about the Anglican Communion, found a &quot;home&quot; in the latter in adulthood, and certainly any growth in the spiritual life and church involvement is a happy development to see. Unfortunately, there are several misconceptions about Anglicans which this book seems to underscore!<br />In several cases, the attitudes of those mentioned seemed to be &quot;I love the liturgy - but don't want the morality or faith of Rome.&quot; Granted - the approach within the Anglican Communion is not based on &quot;fidelity to a magisterium,&quot; but this hardly means that the commitment is less. Many of us Anglicans hold moral viewpoints (yes, even on abortion, fornication, and concubinage) which would match those of the most devout Roman, and our attitude towards divorce would be no more carefree than the RC annulment mentality.<br />The book is not dishonest, but certainly is very incomplete.	2001-03-27
US	53009403	R2XQABQWCK0T9M	0449225550	124082500	Absolute Truths	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Beautiful and deeply moving	Knowing that those likely to read this review may well already share my love for the series as a whole, I shall begin by saying that Susan's gift for characterisation, with a great honesty and much room for grace to do its work, is always superb, and here at a new peak. My general approach to her main figures in the series is to see Jonathan Darrow as someone I'd love to hear preach but might be nervous to meet (even if he tends to compress 40 years worth of direction into a week's retreat) - Neville Aysgarth as someone I'd like to shake by the shoulders - Nicholas Darrow as one I'd closet with a library of the first fifteen centuries of Christian thought before he'd be allowed out - and Charles Ashworth as the ultimate Christian intellectual with whom I'd love to share weekly four-hour lunches with the best claret on the table. In this volume, Charles is once again the key character, and the reader finds, as he himself gradually learns, that the old glittering image is still much alive and as troublesome as ever.<br />Watching this character struggle with bereavement and grief of all varieties, and finally face the long-hidden &quot;demons&quot; which lurked in shadows to affect his relationship with his children and with his old nemesis Aysgarth, is incredibly moving and insightful. Dramatic though the plot becomes, it is a marvellous work wherein a seasoned bishop comes to new self-knowledge, humility, compassion ... and, while I'll not give the ending away, ultimately a specific setting of happiness which some readers will have thought he should have snatched 30 years before.	2001-03-24
US	53009403	ROSQFF2IF7DGT	0449221229	474532373	Mystical Paths	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Conflict, replicas, and &quot;The Dark!&quot;	Susan Howatch once again shows brilliance in characterisation, expression of spiritual truths, and integration of Jungian psychology in creating this strange and rather macabre picture of conflict, intensity, and the darkness of deception. While the plot has notable deficiencies, particularly in some major scenes in the last quarter of the action, the author manages to present a deep and thorough, if sometimes horrifying, picture of what seems an eternal battle of good and evil.<br />Set in 1968, when the previous modern certainties of the stability of church and society were crumbling, the story of Nicholas Darrow shows us both the tearing conflicts within one man's life, where his faith is overshadowed by his intense tendency to use his psychic gifts for power and manipulation, and the overall despair of a world which seemed totally unstable. The popular crowd who form secondary characters deteriorate rapidly from a privileged and party-loving group into addiction, mental illness, suicide, murder, or desperate, even pathological, promiscuity.<br />The main characters, Nicholas and his father Jonathan Darrow, both possess rare psychic gifts, and their inability to see situations clearly in relation to one another stems from the mutual belief that the son is a replica of his father. The differences, which manage to pointedly reflect the times as well, are drastic. Where Jonathan, whose insight and wisdom are clear in the various novels of the series in which he appears, is grounded in Christian mysticism, Nicholas has fallen into a gnostic approach, which he sees as superior, and his manifestation of psychic power is frighteningly manipulative in its various plot depictions. Though father and son have certain common weaknesses, Jonathan is sustained by classic mystic theology and monastic experience, where Nicholas (until his own turning point) cannot except the elements of conversion, and, despite giving them a Christian flavour in his own mind, engages in displays of (mostly apparent) unusual powers that seem close to sorcery.<br />Lovers of the series will find that action in this book enlightens the portrayals of characters who appear elsewhere. For example, the full consequences of the tragedy involving Venetia Flaxton, which is set in 1963 in Scandalous Risks, are sadly clear in this 1968 setting. Readers who know Charles Ashworth from other novels undoubtedly will feel Nicholas's frustration keenly when, in his turning to Charles for assistance, one who might be expected to be comforting and wise is quite the contrary because he has decided what Nicholas is trying to say without giving him a chance to speak. The same Lewis Hall who, in other volumes, will be invaluable to Ashworth and, much later, rather exasperating in a joint healing ministry with Nick, is here &quot;at his best,&quot;  a strength for both Nicholas and Jonathan.<br />It is unfortunate that most of the action in this book involves elaborately staged dramatic, which can obscure the essential themes even if it delivers certain key messages powerfully. However, in the outcome it is an exceptional depiction of the hard path to self-knowledge (from which even wise spiritual guides of 88 find constant), resolution of internal conflict, providence and, ultimately, redemption.of (mostly apparent) unusual powers that seem close to sorcery.<br />Lovers of the series will find that action in this book enlightens the portrayals of characters who appear elsewhere. For example, the full consequences of the tragedy involving Venetia Flaxton, which is set in 1963 in Scandalous Risks, are sadly clear in this 1968 setting. Readers who know Charles Ashworth from other novels undoubtedly will feel Nicholas's frustration keenly when, in his turning to Charles for assistance, one who might be expected to be comforting and wise is quite the contrary because he has decided what Nicholas is trying to say without giving him a chance to speak. The same Lewis Hall who, in other volumes, will be invaluable to Ashworth and, much later, rather exasperating in a joint healing ministry with Nick, is here &quot;at his best,&quot;  a strength for both Nicholas and Jonathan.<br />It is unfortunate that most of the action in this book involves elaborately staged dramatic, which can obscure the essential themes even if it delivers certain key messages powerfully. However, in the outcome it is an exceptional depiction of the hard path to self-knowledge (from which even wise spiritual guides of 88 find constant), resolution of internal conflict, providence and, ultimately, redemption.	2001-03-24
US	53009403	R2FL31ATAA3HUT	0449214362	441695937	Glittering Images	Books	5	65	68	N	Y	Intriguing characters and brilliant insight	In this and many of Susan Howatch's novels, the reader's challenge is to get past a plot which often crosses the boundaries into melodrama. Her insight, generally expressed more in her characters' dialogue (whether with others or interiorly), is superb, and she shows herself to be actually a very fine theologian, with an uncanny understanding of the conflicts in the spiritual life. My caveat to new readers of her work is that the story lines, clearly complicated with bizarre developments in order to explore new spiritual insights, can not only be diverting (in this work, one bizarre melodrama would have been sufficient without adding another), but can lead the lovers of mystery and romance genres to miss the insight which is Susan's strongest point.<br />The main character, Charles Ashworth, from whose point of view the novel is presented, is a brilliant study in genuine faith and conviction struggling with the conflicts of personal dilemma. Bishop Jardine, a great man in many ways, shows the capacity which deception has for leading the best of the clergy off the path. These are but two examples of the totally intriguing characterisations which Susan employs to captivate readers - and present theological truth in a fashion one may not even recognise, but which one shall ponder later.<br />Susan's being a master of the novelist's craft is shown, as one example, in how she depicts a sexual encounter, which in the wrong hands could have become lascivious or meaningless, into a keen expression of a turning point in Charles's life. It is not in any way offensive, because it has a tragic, desperate element, and brings his total confusion, heretherto sheltered well in an academic's tidy intellectuallism, to a point where recognition and redemption are possible.<br />With elements that would appeal to those with an interest in mystery, romance, Jungian psychology, or the spiritual life, this volume will fit well on many and diverse readers' shelves.	2001-03-24
US	53009403	R7AN2T2YH8U1P	0449218112	459432466	Ultimate Prizes	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Where potential meets conflict - excellent characterisation	For all that the plots of her novels tend to cross the border to melodrama, Susan Howatch's gift for characterisation, and for the integration of superb spiritual insight (into the dialogue, if not the lives of the individuals depicted!) is impeccable. Neville Aysgarth, whose commitment and faith are unquestionable, is an odd but interesting blend of hard sense and the ability to create a personal world of his own, where his natural dedication is lost in the inability to have any real compassion or understanding. Others in his life, though he remains clearly unaware of this and, indeed, capable of believing he has a remarkable and favourable role, are &quot;prizes&quot; which he creates for his own benefit.<br />The bizarre love match of Neville and Dido will keep anyone with interests in psychology or odd relationships pondering its aspects. However, Susan does not disappoint those used to her excellent spiritual and theological insights. Some of her other &quot;clergy,&quot; for all of their failings, remain great men. Neville, by contrast, is one who has genuinely good qualities that show his ever unrecognised potential to be in that category as well, but this can never be achieved. He can see the truth and wisdom in concepts such as Aidan and Jonathan present, or the ideals of his modernist heroes, yet can never get past his inability to accept his own weakness, any need for others beyond their being his prizes, nor his tendency towards deceit in the garb of theological integrity.<br />With vivid characters and an intriguing, if rather bizarre, plot, even those readers who do not wish to be inspired can be assured they'll never be bored.	2001-03-24
US	53009403	R69N6FIJ0A251	068484267X	698161422	Angela's Ashes: A Memoir	Books	1	17	37	N	N	Here goes my top 500 rating...	... It is a chronicle of a tragic childhood with a good dose of the macabre - the scene with the dead baby made me shiver. Though, having known a number of people from Ireland, I am aware that the Celts do tend to have a rather morbid side to their religious beliefs, most are not in the situation where ... their parents were anything like this pair. Don't read this one for humour - it is appealing only for those who are relieved to find that they could have done worse than they did with their own dysfunctional families.	2001-01-19
US	53009403	R1FVFE2S1DW8Y5	0449219828	901933010	Scandalous Risks	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	Excellent, powerful themes	Though one need not be religious to enjoy Susan Howatch's work, a delight of her C of E series is that she is equal in gifts as novelist, theologian (with a Jungian flavour), and scholar. The integration of certain powerful themes is seamless with the &quot;romance&quot; plot, and thus painless for those without religious interests, yet, for those who have studied the spiritual life, the classic conflicts between faith and behaviour are placed into clear focus.<br />Neville Aysgarth is a classic study in self-deception - one of genuine faith, but blinded both by perceived personal needs and the desire to defend a Liberal Modernism credo. Susan Howatch brilliantly sets forth, in this character, how such conflict can not only justify behaviour one would insist was immoral with a clear vision, but glorify it by linking it to a supposed &quot;higher ideal&quot; which differs from the norm. The non-religious who thrive on characterisation will have ample food for thought in the depiction of Aysgarth's bizarre marriage.<br />Venetia, young, intelligent, and restless, provides the themes of the intense drives to find spiritual and sexual fulfillment. Though the reader is tempted to see from the beginning that Venetia's affair with Aysgarth is doomed to be a catastrophe, there is more to this than &quot;love is blind&quot; cliches. Aysgarth's intense personality, and brilliant (if flawed) integration of his self-deception with theological concepts, makes it both understandable and tragic that Venetia can both find the affair exciting and be led to believe that certain of its aspects are indicative of an extraordinary religious commitment and morality on Aysgarth's part.<br />The characters of Charles and Lyle Ashworth, the main characters in Glittering Images, are presented now as the long-married, wise &quot;Rev and Mrs Bishop.&quot; Their involvement in the plot has a special dimension, showing that wise, considerate, mature advice, given with the best of intentions, often not only fails to divert misery but increases its impact.<br />This book's providing an engrossing tale (and, for all its bizarre turns, actually one less melodramatic than some others of the series) is enhanced by its giving one the food for thought that distinguishes the entire series.n not only fails to divert misery but increases its impact.<br />This book's providing an engrossing tale (and, for all its bizarre turns, actually one less melodramatic than some others of the series) is enhanced by its giving one the food for thought that distinguishes the entire series.	2001-01-17
US	53009403	R2S159RIYZ10FR	0967307902	450605986	Marley's Ghost	Books	1	4	8	N	Y	Very disappointing	As one who loves both Dickens and imaginative books which &quot;fill in the blanks&quot; of characters in classic works, I had hoped that Marley's Ghost would be an enjoyable novel. Instead, I found it extremely disappointing.<br />Some of the flavour of the Victorian era was hinted at in, for example, references to debtor's prison, but it did not come across strongly, and much of the essence of the time about which Dickens' work was such apt commentary was absent.<br />Ebenezer Scrooge, as Dickens depicts him, is not a wicked criminal, but one whose heart was hardened, and who could easily see himself as merely a &quot;good man of business,&quot; the same words he used to praise Marley's ghost. The eternal popularity of a Christmas Carol undoubtedly is in that one can meet those like Scrooge in any time period, and it would seem a fair guess that Scrooge would have had a partner much like himself. Osmun's depicting Marley basically as a fugitive prisoner, guilty of murder at a young age, does not fit that mold, and little attention is given to his extensive business career.<br />I imagine Osmun was attempting to capture the sordid reality of much of the &quot;real Dickens' London&quot; in the prison and miserable sex scenes, but one was left more with an impression of life behind bars than of the period.<br />It is very disappointing that so little was done with such a promising, intriguing premise.	2000-12-15
US	53009403	RF53O2RYL8WKD	0671723650	132993260	How to Win Friends & Influence People	Books	2	71	100	N	N	As I lose my top 500 reviewer rating...	Having noticed that this work is once again popular, I could not resist commenting.<br />Dale Carnegie's work has nothing whatever to do with cultivating genuine friendship. It is based mainly on giving the appearance of being interested in others, solely in order to use them to attain some personal goal. There is some valuable advice (for example, how one gains nothing from contradicting others), but the general tone is completely self-centered.<br />I suppose my many years in purchasing management flavour my assessment here, because the techniques Dale Carnegie recommends still are widely used in sales (though long-term customers are seldom deceived, it is an understood game). This book may be useful to those who have only business gain in mind. However, its total emphasis on furthering one's own interests, and basically insincere approach, rules out any value for those who have true friendship in mind.	2000-11-17
US	53009403	RCFSJWMGG2BFA	0631212817	649321043	Christian Spirituality: An Introduction	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Fine comprehensive text	Alister McGrath has long been a master at presenting Christian theology with blessed clarity and depth, and this volume does not disappoint. Well-suited for those entirely new to Christian spirituality, and a good review and reference book for those of us who have learnt and forgotten plenty, this book is an excellent text, particularly in that the review questions ending each section help one logically connect the points and reinforce the readings.<br />This is not a devotional work or a seminary textbook (though, perhaps, it should be.) No truth is sacrificed in the very thorough and understandable text, which even the very young will find quite clear.	2000-11-09
US	53009403	R2KVH4GDHY25XR	0156001314	444581246	The Name of the Rose: including the Author's Postscript	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Masterpiece of historical fiction	I'm sure those who read this as a &quot;mystery story&quot; will not be disappointed, particularly since one would never have guessed the  identity of the murderer, but there are far more layers to this brilliant work than that of a medieval detective tale. Umberto Eco incorporates his staggering knowledge of the period in incorporating accurate history (particularly regarding the inquisition), logic (William makes Sherlock Holmes look dense), and totally hilarious, subtle humour.<br />I'll admit that, since I read Latin and have familiarity with the other languages which the &quot;Babel tongued&quot; Salvatore and others use, my sides have been splitting at the references more than would that of one who did not. Many of the references, in fact, are &quot;inside jokes&quot; which those who are well-versed in the history of the period (particularly the heresies) will greatly enjoy. It may have been more helpful were there an appendix translating the passages that are not in English, but, somehow, especially in Salvatore's monologues, by the time they are explained the humour would be lost.<br />The character of Brother William is totally intriguing, and surely one of the most memorable in recent fiction. I would recommend this book particularly to those who wish some familiarity with the period (logic at the forefront) delivered in a totally painless and engagingly entertaining fashion. One learns the history and culture in spite of one's self, just &quot;listening&quot; to William.<br />We book lovers, of course, will greatly enjoy reading of a period when (priceless) books were so cherished that a murderer's motive could be related to them.	2000-11-05
US	53009403	R22HIAZXZ9GKZS	0446605786	671980382	The Royals	Books	2	10	14	N	N	Read this is as if were a tabloid	This book is entertaining for those who enjoy gossip without taking it as fact. Much is not solidly substantiated, but is interwoven with just enough clear fact to make it overly believable. The string of anonymous sources is a caveat to those who would take this for history or biography rather than the equivalent of tabloid headlines.<br />Kitty Kelley makes various references which make it clear that she rather glories in the &quot;American&quot; approach of having no respect for royalty or for privacy. The implication is that she was able to uncover stories which those having such respect would not reveal, or that refusal to discuss a matter means the story is known to be accurate.<br />Though a &quot;fun read&quot; if taken as the equivalent of a gossip column, there is little here that would be useful to anyone genuinely interested in either the &quot;cast of characters&quot; or in history. If one knows anything much about the royal family, this book appears to be intended solely to discredit their characters - both in the uncorroborated stories it includes and the many noble facts it omits.	2000-11-05
US	53009403	R29VR6S2ZHPLS	0713992816	998162278	England's Thousand Best Churches	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The consummate gift book	The history presented, and the wonderful photographs, are a panorama of architectural beauty and fascination topped only by Jenkins' insightful and witty comments. This is a perfect &quot;coffee table volume&quot; for anyone interested in the Church, the arts, or history, and for others who plan travel to areas of England they have not previously explored. An added bonus is that those passionate about any one of the topics will, as I have found, have the further entertainment of arguing whether Simon's choices actually were of the 1,000 best, and which of their own favourites would have topped them.	2000-11-04
US	53009403	RX44F1SD32PJ6	0671545094	231870918	Well Rounded	Books	2	12	16	N	Y	Little of note here	The fashion tips in this book are far from original. The tired ideas about wearing &quot;neutrals&quot; and &quot;the uniform&quot; have been presented in perhaps 95% of the books on this topic for the past 25 years. In fact, the truly fashion conscious among us are unlikely to find a wardrobe of black items and, of all things, white tee shirts to be appealing.<br />Though, unlike many popular books today, Catherine's does not contain the &quot;poor mes,&quot; the trendy, boring ideas about &quot;self-esteem&quot; (and the assumption that one who is large is lacking in same) are totally stereotypical and tired. One wonders if those with weight problems (with which I can empathise, since it is a lifelong situation of my own) will not stop to think that few genuine difficulties in any life were caused by, or would be decreased by, anything connected with one's weight. It would be far better if Catherine had dealt with fashion in itself, rather than flavouring her work with pop psychology which falls flat.	2000-11-04
US	53009403	R1AP2L72QGGFTM	0631195858	459984789	Christian Theology Reader	Books	5	22	25	N	N	Indispensable companion to Christian Theology	Alister McGrath's collections of readings are excellent reference works for anyone wishing a comprehensive, genuinely pluralistic study of the development of Christian theology. Particularly because many Christians have a limited scope, based entirely on one &quot;school&quot; or tradition, this book, and its highly readable companion volume, is enriching and enlightening. Since the books do not presume a knowledge of the various writers (as would many theology texts), but present a continuous historical perspective, either the student of religious studies, the historian, or one merely seeking to enrich his understanding of Christianity will find these texts &quot;fill in the blanks&quot; of the great richness in Christian thought throughout two millennia.	2000-11-04
US	53009403	R1JOEKJYSC2LWW	0399523839	592019765	True Beauty: Positive Attitudes and Practical Tips from the World's Leading Plus-Size Model	Books	1	11	18	N	N	No fashion tips here - but much recycled &quot;self help&quot;	As a very fashion conscious lady, I had explored this book hoping  for ideas related to style - and was quite disappointed. Emme's chronicle of her (currently stereotypical) childhood, when food grew to have all sorts of meanings, is one with which I'm sure many readers will identify, but which is basically defeating. It only strengthens the idea that being large means unresolved &quot;issues,&quot; which can have quite another effect than that of being truly stylish and confident.<br />It all falls rather flat. A gorgeous, successful model who depicts her earlier years as those of a tragic heroine is as stale as the old rags to riches tales. Nor are too many plus size ladies likely to find encouragement in the illogical notion that it is acceptable to be large as long as one is not overweight (quite a contradiction in terms.)<br />Though Emme does something of a commercial for plus size clothing, there are no true fashion tips. The premise seems to be &quot;you are plus sized, you therefore must have unresolved issues and bad self-esteem, so take heart that another in this position was one of People's 50 most beautiful people.&quot; Aside from that few women of any size would have Emme's looks or figure, the supposed tragedy of early relationships with food (and other trendy ideas) is quite immature.	2000-11-04
US	53009403	R1YEZ7J4U17SQ0	0824506286	46125533	Spiritual Passages: The Psychology of Spiritual Development	Books	3	42	55	N	N	Excellent ideas, but somewhat lacking in development	Father Groeschel's presentation of ideas is sound and interesting, and the illustrations using incidents in the lives of people he has known a good approach. However, he tends to present some very intriguing concepts, then insufficiently develop them with clear explanations. For example, he refers to the Good Thief's conversation with Christ on the Cross as manipulative, but assumes the reader (who is unlikely to be a psychologist) will grasp why. The book is an excellent starting point, theologically solid and in accord with classic spirituality, but as a reader I found myself begging for more development and ideas about integration of the principles into one's own prayer life.	2000-11-04
US	53009403	REUPS4XPB77OH	0712345507	911185780	Lindisfarne Gospels Address Book	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Highly functional, illustrations are a treat	Compact, attractive, and with a wonderfully classic flavour, this book should delight anyone with an interest in the arts or the history of the era.	2000-11-04
US	53009403	RP5FLKV8QBH12	0452279232	422504912	The Joy of Cooking Comb-Bound Edition: Revised and Expanded	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Never found a better cookbook	The Joy of Cooking, with its versatility, detail, and wonderful scope of recipes, is suited both to the experienced &quot;master chef&quot;  and to new cooks. Recipes are generally easy to prepare, the more so because the book has extensive explanations of such areas as cooking techniques, types of sauces, and cuts of meat, simplifying shopping as well. Dishes included range from the simple (but elegant) to the exotic. My only regret in using The Joy of Cooking is that I refer to it so constantly that I need to replace my copies at the dawn of each decade.	2000-11-04
US	53009403	RCTL6TIYA51OG	0866839518	680894982	Practice of Spiritual Direction, The	Books	2	83	103	N	Y	Approach seemed &quot;backwards&quot;	Though the knowledge and experience which the authors possess is clear, my impression was that, rather than taking classic concepts of spiritual direction and incorporating the insights of modern psychology, they were accepting the latter as truth and adapting the former to fit them.<br />Certainly, the sort of distance and authoritarian stance of previous centuries, which the authors rightly see as passe (though it worked in its time), requires much adaptation to be effective today. Yet, in recent decades, the essence, comprising the accumulated wisdom of many centuries, too often has been sacrificed because how to apply the accidental is unclear. The authors make some areas rather murky and puzzling. For example, one case cited is that of a religious Sister who is spiritual director to a married woman who believes her life and prayer have improved in the course of a current adulterous relationship. The authors believe the director should keep silent, because to do otherwise would be following an agenda of defending marriage rather than being open to the other woman's needs - and rely on her having other sources of information, or a personal intuition, that may influence her assessment of her situation. This is quite contrary to any classic view, since one of a director's ministries always has been to assist the other in a truly honest view, unhampered by self-deception - and adultery, a clearly immoral action in Christian teaching which a director would have an obligation to correct, has never been viewed as helpful in the spiritual life.<br />My impression was that, in encouraging those in this ministry to embrace current trends in psychology and the like, many of the key parts of the ministry (however unpleasant they may be at times) were neglected.	2000-11-04
US	53009403	RVMMFD9UJJGXK	0517701650	445930188	Miss Manners' Guide to Domestic Tranquility: The Authoritative Manual for Every Civilized Household, However Harried	Books	4	33	34	N	Y	Practically perfect	Miss Manners books are refreshing in their honesty. Where many current works of &quot;etiquette&quot;, which take modern rudeness and trends, assume they are correct, and only amplify them, Miss Manners has a genuine approach of courtesy. I'd like to place this volume on the shelf of 90% of the people I meet.<br />The good sense in the &quot;manners&quot; is clear and delightful. Miss Manners deals with genuine social interaction - not the &quot;advertising&quot; that much supposedly social communication is today. It would be a much more pleasant world if, in accord with Miss Manners directives, people stopped the &quot;public service announcements.&quot;<br />Nonetheless, for a fan of Judith Martin's writing such as I am, I've noticed that the great wit shown in such previous works as the &quot;Guide to Excruciatingly Correct Behaviour&quot; has declined. This book does not have anything to match the humour of previous ones.	2000-11-03
US	53009403	RU4CFTFF4O56M	0440339332	879729113	The Human Comedy	Books	3	2	6	N	N	Using Ithaca, Homer, and Ulysses was overdoing	...but there are valuable themes in this book. My impression was that, where other characters (Spangler, Grogan, and Lionel being vivid examples) were intended as realistically &quot;human,&quot; the core of the Macauley family (Homer, little Ulysses, and his somewhat too perfectly wise mother in particular) were more idealistic bearers of ideas.<br />Homer's tale is quite realistic, even if he himself is a bit overdone. This is basically a story of coming to maturity, which, in the teenage years, has a strong element of understanding the human condition and seeing people (even those who are not about to meet ideals) as individuals rather than vague stereotypes. (Mother Macauley, in one rather accurate line, has a point that &quot;schools only keep children off the street&quot; - in the sense that Homer's first experiences beyond those confines teach him very valuable new lessons.) Another reviewer mentioned &quot;The Bethel Rooms&quot; chapter, and I agree it is most important - it is especially telling that Homer is surprised to see that the girl he meets seems so like his own sister and her friend. The first incident of Homer's delivering a telegram notifying a mother of her son's death is also powerful, since, though Homer, whose own father is dead, has experienced bereavement, this is apparently his first contact with how crushing and distorting dealing with grief can be.<br />Even allowing for that these were the War years, however, one annoying theme of the book is that &quot;East, West, home is best&quot; - as long as it is the United States. It seems that one can accept human weakness and foibles because the characters are &quot;all Americans,&quot; not because of inherent human dignity. The orphaned Toby, who regrets knowing nothing of his family, is to be content - the coach who was bigoted to an Italian immigrant's son is wrong - etc., etc. - merely because &quot;we're all Americans.&quot;<br />The genuine humour comes from a minority of scenes - for example, the highly realistic one of the wonderful Mr Spangler's meeting his Society in-laws, and the absurd one of the high school lesson  in ancient history which turns into a discussion of the human nose.<br />This book is a decent &quot;read,&quot; though it falls somewhat short of great literature.ample, the highly realistic one of the wonderful Mr Spangler's meeting his Society in-laws, and the absurd one of the high school lesson  in ancient history which turns into a discussion of the human nose. <br />This book is a decent &quot;read,&quot; though it falls somewhat short of great literature.	2000-10-29
US	53009403	R2HUHNKBJ3PUQP	0814624537	569129853	The Need and the Blessing of Prayer	Books	5	42	42	N	Y	Treasure to be savoured and used in meditation	Each chapter in this work provides enough material for reflection to fill a month - and, perhaps, that is the way to enjoy it fully. Father Rahner's sermons on prayer, especially deep and poignant because they were originally delivered to Germans suffering the pain and deprivation following the second world war, are exquisitely beautiful. He writes movingly of how God strips aways our false ways, how the Holy Spirit and Christ within us &quot;pray for us&quot; when our own efforts are weak, and far more. Much of it may be difficult to ponder, but the ring of truth and love are so clear that the light of resurrection shows the cross to be a shadow. Superb work to be read at any time, but particularly when one is struggling in one's own prayer life. Those who are familiar with this brilliant Jesuit through his systematic theology will see that the picture is incomplete without observing what a great man of prayer he was.	2000-10-26
US	53009403	R1MCJW215BGUKG	0631198490	497542293	Christian Theology	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Very comprehensive, pluralistic in the best sense	Readers will find a thorough overview of Church history and the theological contributions of each era, from all Christian traditions, East and West. This volume is the most comprehensive collection I have seen, and provides the reader with theological richness and wide scope.	2000-10-24
US	53009403	R3DJGNY8ZK15KH	0517189674	790511808	Heidi (Children's Classics)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	I love it more each year	Heidi is surely one of the most engaging characters any pen of any era could create. As a child, I loved that one whose short life (she is five at the outset) had contained much tragedy was completely natural, had no fear, openly cared for others (even for animals), and had a wisdom and independence that was charming rather than impetuous. Though I doubt I'd have articulated it in this way as a child, this book is a very moving depiction of faith and trust in God and His providence. The &quot;prodigal son&quot; grandfather, the old doctor, Peter's grandmother, and Clara (who is disabled not because of physical infirmity as much as the fears of her elders), all are touched by this wonderful character's faith.<br />Not in the least preachy, and in a setting that makes even a two hour climb on a steep mountain seem appealing, this timeless book is a true classic.	2000-10-24
US	53009403	R3C3PBSSOBD8Z	0894711539	715697163	The Classic Tale of Velveteen Rabbit Or, How Toys Become Real	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Every library needs a copy - hauntingly beautiful	The Velveteen Rabbit, and his timeless message about the meaning of love, is a marvellous children's book which every adult should re-read. It never fails to move and enchant me. This edition is especially suited as a gift book.	2000-10-24
US	53009403	R31FH7U74ESMRQ	067172228X	893144391	Miss Manners' Guide for the Turn-of-the-Millennium	Books	5	6	9	N	N	The only guide with genuine style	Miss Manners' witty, droll responses are top entertainment. Also, unlike other popular etiquette (and I use the term freely...) books, this one sets forth genuine courtesy, rather than taking the general rudeness of society and giving it status.<br />This book is refreshing in an era when &quot;no gifts please&quot; is seen as de rigeur, when &quot;manners&quot; seem to involve &quot;encouraging&quot; friends to adopt one's own self-improvement kicks, and courtesy i speech is a statement that one does not believe in democracy. This is the genuine article.	2000-10-24
US	53009403	RL6R2H007PBZS	0805416129	624600398	Learn to Read New Testament Greek (English and Ancient Greek Edition)	Books	5	27	31	N	Y	Clear, thorough introductory textbook	Excellent resource for personal study or classroom instruction in the elements of NT Greek. The author's presentation is very clear, with explanations that will make the grammar easy to understand even for those with little background in the subject.	2000-10-24
US	53009403	R134R4XJVEPZVM	0448060191	592774530	Little Women (Illustrated Junior Library)	Books	2	2	6	N	N	Most young girls will love it	I did, at age 8 or so, though, re-reading it today, I find itrather grim and dull. Also, as I learnt some years ago in my teachingdays, this is not a book to be used in the classroom. It is best savedfor long winter days, when reading a chapter can be a daily visit withappealing friends.<br />Much of it is way too puritanical for mytaste. Daughters cannot so much as have their rare good breakfast onChristmas Day, and presents need to be sacrificed because how can oneenjoy oneself when soldiers are not? But the characters are oftenvivid, and the relationships between the sisters are quiterealistic.<br />That said, it does tend to be a winner. The very youngtend to focus on the fun parts rather than the New Englandcongregationalist preaching ... don't spoil it for them, at the youngage, by telling them just why the Alcotts, on whom this work wasbased, were the &quot;poor&quot; outcasts in the wealthyneighbourhood.  END	2000-10-24
US	53009403	R1ZALWZ9E30WPS	0670241334	404665928	Corduroy	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Beware - you'll soon know it by heart	This is one of those books that adults, in desperation, soon need to hide. At age two, my nephew so fell in love with Corduroy that he constantly requested a re-reading and soon knew the text by heart. The kids will love the tale, which is great fun, though it will leave the reader wishing toddlers could read to themselves.	2000-10-24
US	53009403	R398G0RQ4DPWA2	0140267670	101899238	Life Among the Savages	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Hilarious and refreshing	Shirley Jackson's wicked humour (don't miss the story of &quot;Charles,&quot; for example) kept me laughing, and it was especially refreshing to step into a (let's face it, far more realistic) world where children could have a score of imaginary playmates (the family of Mrs Ellenoy), a son could be a bit of a discipline problem, the baby could eat a spider ... and no one ran to the self-help aisle or shrink just because kids were kids.<br />I had assumed that this was a biographical work, with the adventures just a bit exagerrated, until I read Shirley's (excellent) biography &quot;Private Demons.&quot; Somehow, the stories were not as funny when I came to know that some of them were fiction, merely based on the children's traits.<br />This tale will never bore, and will give anyone a good dose of laughter. Perhaps those who now have children of the age which Shirley's were then will relax a bit realising that raising children was never a joy ride - but there is no need, today, to make it more difficult than it has to be.	2000-10-20
US	53009403	R3EGN7XZW85OQS	1568490992	401313516	With Love from Karen	Books	5	40	41	N	N	Great beauty - but left me with many questions	This sequel, undoubtedly greeted with joy by all of us who loved &quot;Karen,&quot; in one sense surpasses the first work. Karen, delightful and positive though she is, is depicted far more realistically than in the initial book, which tended to make her a bit of a picture book saint. Her struggles, decisions, and (in all honesty) unquestionable confusion with the expectations of her wonderful family are quite vividly portrayed. (As an example of the last - one wonders why Marie does not realise that much of Karen's dilemma over &quot;walking vs wheelchair&quot; undoubtedly stems from Marie's constant insistence on Karen's walking - she fought the idea of Karen's having a wheelchair at all earlier in the book.)<br />The Killilea family clearly had an unusual and blessed balance - tough-minded, persistent, deeply religious, but hospitable and joyous to the point where their home seemed a favourite stopping place for all whom they knew. Yet many new questions remained unanswered. &quot;Karen,&quot; though it did not include many extended family members at length, mentioned a large family - in &quot;With Love from Karen,&quot; even the most special occasions include many &quot;honorary&quot; family members but no blood relatives. One wonders if the opposition and &quot;advice&quot; which Jimmy and Marie received when they sought treatment for Karen had alienated them from their larger family circle. Reading of Karen's dislocation, which &quot;could have been prevented if certain medical procedures had been followed&quot; in her childhood, I wondered if this had bearing on why Dr. B, the first book's near-saviour, had mysteriously disappeared from mention.<br />The determination and cheerfulness of the Killilea's is all the more amazing, even inspiring, with &quot;reading between the lines.&quot; Brief references often speak a volume. This was a family where there always seemed to be someone in hospital or otherwise seriously ill - and it is only in a short mention, related to Marie's medical history's being taken during her pregnancy with Kristin, that we realise that Kristin is only the fourth child to survive, despite twelve pregnancies.<br />Gloria is the heroine of this volume - one wonders if Marie's depiction of her is a bit too perfect, but her incredible faith and convictions are astonishing. I regretted, however, that Gloria so stole the book's limelight in later chapters that &quot;Little&quot; Marie is notable in this book only for having contracted tuberculosis and rheumatic fever. Every event of Gloria's life is richly detailed, where references to (young) Marie's wedding are brief, and, when her first son is born, there is only one sentence to the effect that blessings came in pairs - we do not even learn his name.<br />This family must have been quite delightful, though I do wonder how one who worked for NY Telephone had such a large number of acquaintances from the worlds of the literary, theatrical, etc.. They must have had quite a scope! The emphasis on the friendship with Larchmont neighbours, particularly the Kerrs, is wonderful.<br />Karen and family have always deeply impressed me, and I do regret that no full-scale biography, including later years, is available. I should also love to know more about them from the perspective of those who knew them at the time. I love both of Marie's books, but always wondered if they are just slightly biased with the need to be inspirational. (The true faith this family had certainly comes through, but I wonder if details that are unpleasant were sometimes omitted.)<br />(Footnote for readers with this question: Jimmy and Marie did not divorce. Both died in the early 1990s.)ated to Marie's medical history's being taken during her pregnancy with Kristin, that we realise that Kristin is only the fourth child to survive, despite twelve pregnancies.<br />Gloria is the heroine of this volume - one wonders if Marie's depiction of her is a bit too perfect, but her incredible faith and convictions are astonishing. I regretted, however, that Gloria so stole the book's limelight in later chapters that &quot;Little&quot; Marie is notable in this book only for having contracted tuberculosis and rheumatic fever. Every event of Gloria's life is richly detailed, where references to (young) Marie's wedding are brief, and, when her first son is born, there is only one sentence to the effect that blessings came in pairs - we do not even learn his name.<br />This family must have been quite delightful, though I do wonder how one who worked for NY Telephone had such a large number of acquaintances from the worlds of the literary, theatrical, etc.. They must have had quite a scope! The emphasis on the friendship with Larchmont neighbours, particularly the Kerrs, is wonderful.<br />Karen and family have always deeply impressed me, and I do regret that no full-scale biography, including later years, is available. I should also love to know more about them from the perspective of those who knew them at the time. I love both of Marie's books, but always wondered if they are just slightly biased with the need to be inspirational. (The true faith this family had certainly comes through, but I wonder if details that are unpleasant were sometimes omitted.)<br />(Footnote for readers with this question: Jimmy and Marie did not divorce. Both died in the early 1990s.)	2000-10-20
US	53009403	RWAJFT9KF6GRF	0006492460	677315012	Growing Up with Dick and Jane: Learning and Living the American Dream	Books	3	9	80	N	N	I truly hope some of the commentary was satirical...	...but fear, in this day when psychobabble, family values, and the like are taken far too seriously, the &quot;American Dream&quot; as related to Dick and Jane is as well.<br />Most of us &quot;Depression Era through Baby Boom&quot; kids (I'm the latter) can enjoy some memories of the Dick and Jane we knew so well in first grade. But anyone whose memory is keen enough will know that the &quot;Dick and Jane&quot; family were hardly those we'd have wished to imitate. The kids apparently had no friends (though the book shows that, after &quot;my time,&quot; they did acquire a few); were not terribly bright; hardly had a decent conversation (remember story one: &quot;Oh, Look!&quot;?); their prime concern seemed to be &quot;helping mother,&quot; and they might have been an adult's dream (never caused trouble, and so forth) but were not a fellow kid's.	2000-10-20
US	53009403	R2KF0DJE0P5010	0824507304	842503811	Prayers for a Lifetime	Books	4	27	30	N	N	Reflections on life and vocation	It is unfortunate that this lovely work will never receive the credit it deserves, because it is not &quot;one size fits all.&quot; Karl Rahner's prayers, as presented here, are not general devotions, but deep meditations, simply offered but highly intense in their fashion, regarding various aspects of his own life in Christ. It is a wonderful, rather humbling look at the gratitude, awe, and love which this great theologian offered to His God. However, it is not a suitable gift for anyone who is looking only for a book of general devotions, because many chapters relate directly to Rahner's own circumstances.	2000-10-20
US	53009403	R3T88VEZ523H5J	1576590615	736251430	Gospel Living: St Francis of Assisi Yesterday and Today (Franciscan Pathways Ser.))	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent treatment of Franciscan spirituality and theology	Unlike many books on this topic, which are simple meditations or reflections, this work is a thorough exposition of Franciscan spirituality and many aspects of the theology which Francis's path inspired. This is by far the best modern work I have seen in this category. Of special note are sections regarding the Eucharist, the Incarnation, and the Franciscan approach to the vowed life. Excellent resource.	2000-10-16
US	53009403	R3RCHASO9RSNB3	0385029306	192327135	Dark Night of the Soul	Books	5	331	337	N	N	Brilliant - but requires background for understanding	John of the Cross's writings show the total intensity and detachment of one who has reached a point of union with God that is a sheer gift of grace. The Dark Night of the Soul is among the greatest writings of mystic theology and experience, and highly recommended for those who have some understanding of the concepts of which he writes. The total turning of the will to God, to a point where nothing on earth can satisfy the lover except union with the Beloved, is a marvellous and deeply moving &quot;sight&quot; - and the exquisite poetry here is one of the best expressions in the history of Christianity.<br />This said, it is essential that one have background in order to understand this work. (More easily understood introductions, such as Thomas Dubay's &quot;Fire Within,&quot; should precede reading the Dark Night.) John is by no means writing of depression or misery, nor is his path one which is common to all (or indeed many) Christians. Let the serious Christian seeker approach this work with humility - it pre-supposes knowledge and an openness to divine love that is far from universal. And, above all, take John's cautions against self-deception to heart as much as he did.	2000-10-16
US	53009403	R2P8255XE7YZ08	0898702631	284030368	Fire Within: St. Teresa of Avila, St. John of the Cross and the Gospel-On Prayer	Books	5	42	46	N	N	Thomas Dubay's masterpiece	Father Dubay's works, weighty though they are, are never a disappointment to the reader who seeks a solid, uncompromising, yet loving introduction to the Christian life, well-documented in scriptural and historical references. In this book, he exceeds the expectations of even those who have enjoyed his other writings. Drawing on the spirituality of two great Carmelites - quite different in temperament and approach, both brilliant - Father Dubay makes the richness of mystic theology very accessible for the modern reader. He removes Teresa and John from the murky distance of the renaissance, showing how their timeless approach is a joyous journey, however an arduous one. Highly recommended.	2000-10-16
US	53009403	R165UWYCG185AS	0826408516	938478660	The Loving Search for God: Contemplative Prayer and the Cloud of Unknowing	Books	3	29	63	N	Y	Perhaps Trappists are best off keeping silent	As one who loves the Cloud of Unknowing, my impression was that the author indeed understood that work very well - and assumed that readers would as well. Wishful thinking, indeed! This book is a series of loving, sweet, but rather unsatisfying meditations. It is obviously an attempt to make the Cloud understandable to any reader, but that is a task doomed to failure. The Cloud was written for one the author had judged to be called to the contemplative prayer that is a sheer gift of grace, and therefore assumed a strong liturgical and prayer life, an understanding of sin and virtue, etc. One could read this entire book and not have a clue.	2000-10-16
US	53009403	R14A9O2Q6SUX2B	0674809858	13586337	Sisters in Arms: Catholic Nuns through Two Millennia	Books	2	28	43	N	N	Very narrow presentation	The author cannot be faulted for research, but the presentation is focussed entirely on such &quot;male oppression&quot; as nuns endured. Anyone looking for compelling spirituality, a full look at the incredible achievements of religious in any century, or even recognition of the fact that the professional and educational achievements of religious Sisters far exceeded that which other women could begin to hope for in recent centuries will be disappointed.<br />It is unbalanced, rather dismal, and not likely to appeal to anyone unless her philosophy of religious life is entirely one of a fight between the sexes.	2000-10-08
US	53009403	R1QQMPLLMO6B1R	0824505239	65447679	Foundations of Christian Faith: An Introduction to the Idea of Christianity	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Excellent - but hardly introductory in the usual sense	Karl Rahner's brilliance in presenting systematic theology is well-illustrated in this work, the material of which will give those with such an interest much food for thought, reflection, and (in the outcome) prayer. Of particular interest is Rahner's theology of the Church, critical in an era when too much of what passed for spirituality was seen as totally personal.<br />Place this book on the shelf of anyone with an interest in systematic theology. However, it is not an &quot;introductory&quot; text in the sense of a catechism at all, nor is it a reflective work for spiritual reading. It assumes a knowledge of Scripture, doctrine, and the like, and could be very confusing for those who do not have a previous background.	2000-10-08
US	53009403	R3HFSTASWNMSXK	0764803859	662611054	The Gift of Spiritual Direction: On Spiritual Guidance and Care for the Soul	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Balanced blend of compassion, love, and wisdom	Carmelites seldom disappoint when writing of the spiritual life, and of guidance in same, whether from the guide's or listener's perspective. This volume is no exception. Its solid, indeed classic, approach is combined with a modern perspective which maintains integrity while incorporating contemporary insights. There is great respect for the personality, and for loving interaction in direction which is presented as an act of shared worship. Definitely one of the better titles in this area.	2000-10-07
US	53009403	R3ECUTV4TYL07E	0446363251	861890745	Scarlett: The Sequel to Margaret Mitchell's "Gone With the Wind"	Books	2	5	8	N	Y	If you're aching to know the outcome with Scarlett and Rhett	...the only especially attractive aspect of this book is that you'll find out in the end.<br />Obviously, Margaret Mitchell's work would be a &quot;tough act to follow&quot; in any case, but the depth of characterisation, historical flavous, and relationships in the first book is sadly absent from the second. One who has loved Gone with the Wind will find that the few characters who have not died are shelved, and, since we came to know them so intensely and at such length in the Mitchell work, old friends seem to be total strangers.<br />All in all, it is very disappointing. Rent it at your library.	2000-09-29
US	53009403	R1E0HZ4OTXA0CI	0684815303	382064907	Making Saints: How The Catholic Church Determines Who Becomes A Saint, Who Doesn'T, And Why	Books	2	20	33	N	N	Some intriguing information, much misunderstanding	Especially in the current climate, where more people are canonised in a year than were in the previous century, the interesting background of the process, and how it has changed in recent decades, is quite interesting.<br />Unfortunately, the writer has far more understanding of the &quot;legal process&quot; in this area than any of either popular devotion or very obvious reasons why one candidate may be favoured over another. For example, devotion to saints, amongst the general population, often is not at all based on identifying with the total circumstances of the saint's life, but with a particular aspect. The author devotes much time to the lack of being &quot;uninhibited&quot; in bed which would supposedly keep married couples from identifying with Louis and Zelie Martin (whose marriage began rather oddly largely because both had longed for religious life). Aside from that one wonders how he would have known such details, that such are seldom mentioned in polite company much less in archives, and that a couple who had nine children must have not spent all of their time in chapel, it would be ridiculous to think that those devoted to the pair would have sexual inhibitions or a negative attitude as a result. The people I've encountered who wish to see Louis and Zelie canonised are generally those who envy that the Martins had five children who gave their lives to the Church... rather than two who want no part of church at all.<br />Part of what marks one for beatification is a continued devotion. Heavens, if two women, both saintly, lived in the same period, and one was the foundress of a religious order, the other a local parent, the fact that the cause of the former would be more likely to endure is simply practical. Mother Foundress would have been well known, because her Sisters would have told her story to all whom they served for generations afterward, would have published books about her life, and would have scattered descriptive holy cards far and wide. (Not to mention that the Order later would have financed the canonisation research.) The mother of a family would have been unlikely to be well known, and her kids may have found the stress of living with a saint rather strong ... her memory may die out with her grandchildren. It is not an indication that marriage is not holy.<br />Read with discretion. The political correctness and catering to popular misconceptions can obscure much. The political and legal aspects are nonetheless interesting reading.Not to mention that the Order later would have financed the canonisation research.) The mother of a family would have been unlikely to be well known, and her kids may have found the stress of living with a saint rather strong ... her memory may die out with her grandchildren. It is not an indication that marriage is not holy.<br />Read with discretion. The political correctness and catering to popular misconceptions can obscure much. The political and legal aspects are nonetheless interesting reading.	2000-09-29
US	53009403	R1H0UO7UHRJOJP	0380728060	50586092	The Luckiest Girl (An Avon Camelot Book)	Books	3	4	7	N	N	A bit too perfect	Beverly Cleary's greatest talent is not only for first rate and vivid writing, but for portraying situations with which children (or anyone with past experience as same) can identify. This book falls short of the latter promise. Shelly's situation is the sort that most teenaged girls would envy as far off, and ache at heart to see as unattainable. Her first suggestions in a meeting at a new school, for example, are eagerly accepted and set her off on instant popularity.<br />Beverly's usual adeptness with presenting realistic teen romance scenarios is absent as well. A woman of any age would hope to have the gallant fellow here in her stocking for Christmas. Little of the pathos and awkwardness (let alone rejection!) typical of that age comes through.	2000-09-29
US	53009403	R13KD8J5LYDMO8	1891929348	631631901	Rebel Nun	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Some humour, some tragedy, but overall puzzlement	The main difficulty with this book is that I could not fathom why Audrey entered a convent (let alone one semi-cloistered) nor stayed there for any period of time. Despite her biting wit and occasionally hilarious descriptions, my inclination to laugh was tempered by the uneasy feeling that her convent days were either an endurance test or a means to prove she could be found acceptable.<br />The humour is often rich - and the description of the penitential practises borrowed from previous centuries, let alone the often senseless customs which defeat their own purpose, can range from head-shaking to nearly chilling. However, being familiar with the Order to which Audrey had belonged (it's obvious...), it is unfortunate that the only mention she makes of their excellent work is in the description of a superior who makes Pol Pot look cuddly.<br />With Audrey's words about herself so hilarious, yet those about the Order almost uniformly negative, all begs the question of what she ever saw in the Order, and why she wanted to be a part of the congregation.	2000-09-29
US	53009403	R1OSPN8NWAIAK1	0380803682	183030674	Dr. Atkins' New Diet Revolution	Books	5	29	30	N	N	Sixty pounds and five years later - it's a miracle!	After thirty years of fruitless dieting - and the accompanying, constant hunger and weakness - I must say that there is only one &quot;side effect&quot; to the diet: eating with others will solicit comments about how &quot;I thought pasta was good for you&quot; and the like. I've known others who, like myself, actually read the entire book and had similar (or greater) success. (A co-worker lost 130 pounds and has maintained that loss for three years to  date, for example.) There truly is no hunger, no cravings, no fatigue, no needing to be obsessed with dieting, no living in a gym - and no regain. But I have frequently been puzzled when I have met or heard from those who cannot take Dr Atkins' word for what his diet is. They combine the &quot;sage wisdom&quot; of other plans, believing they read it in Atkins book, or take prejudiced comments from elsewhere and assume them to be true.  The common assumption - that Atkins dieters are constantly stuffing themselves with high fat foods, undoubtedly in a contest to see who can consume the most calories in a day - is absurd. After the first few weeks, one experiences a blessed reduction in appetite and absence of any cravings. (Politically incorrect as it is to state the truth - for many, though not all, people, eating high carbohydrate foods when hungry has an effect similar to drinking from the ocean when thirsty.)Though there is no weighing, measuring, or keeping diaries, one finds that one's caloric intake is drastically reduced. The other fictions - that this is a temporary diet (that is true only of Induction - which prejudiced reviewers present as the entire diet) - that Atkins dieters are aiming for a heart attack soon (I doubt a cardiologist has much interest in killing his patients..) - that staying on the diet leads to weight gain - all are ridiculous. It is true that one will gain weight if one goes back to a high carbohydrate diet - but why would anyone who has a problem with  carbs want to do so? Those contemplating following the diet MUST read the book in its entirety, and not add what they were taught elsewhere. Everett Koop's &quot;successes&quot; lost only 12 pounds in a year. Other &quot;successes&quot; with high carb, low fat programmes, of which I've read on the Internet, had track records such as losing 19 pounds and gaining half of it back soon. I've seen studies where those who &quot;successfully&quot; lost weight through exercise lost only six pounds in a year. The new wisdom is that one should not lose more than a pound a month. ...I'll take Atkins any day.mplating following the diet MUST read the book in its entirety, and not add what they were taught elsewhere. Everett Koop's &quot;successes&quot; lost only 12 pounds in a year. Other &quot;successes&quot; with high carb, low fat programmes, of which I've read on the Internet, had track records such as losing 19 pounds and gaining half of it back soon. I've seen studies where those who &quot;successfully&quot; lost weight through exercise lost only six pounds in a year. The new wisdom is that one should not lose more than a pound a month. ...I'll take Atkins any day.	2000-09-29
US	53009403	R3DZSTQOT9V21M	0684837013	659976127	Dr. Atkins' Quick and Easy New Diet Cookbook	Books	2	30	35	N	N	Adore the diet - but found only a few useful recipes	I've long enjoyed cooking elegant meals nearly as much as consuming them, but found very few recipes in this cookbook that are practical to prepare. Some contain ingredients found on few shelves (except those of health food stores or, perhaps, gourmet shops), and one assumes that Veronica Atkins, unlike most of us, has help with both shopping and preparation. Many of the meals are not appealing, and others involve too much expense, fuss, and bother.<br />This cookbook could create problems for anyone not used to tweaking recipes. For example, the chicken paprika is perfectly delicious, but following Mrs Atkins &quot;cooking time&quot; is far from adequate - the chicken was still cold and red inside when I did so. The number of main dishes for which one would easily have ingredients at hand (even if one loves to cook) is very disappointing.	2000-09-29
US	53009403	R1FHOUW4KJ386U	0380728052	733946052	Jean and Johnny	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	Excellent portrayal of a first love	It's safe to say that every woman alive can identify with this very &quot;on target&quot; tale, which Beverly Cleary depicts with warmth, humour, occasional pathos, and perfect realism. Perhaps we are not much like Jean (I know that I never was ... seems strange she has no interests, no involvement in activities, and only one friend), but which of us has not, in some fashion, had the idea that love was mutual as long as we kept talking about a particular dream boat?<br />I used this book, which I'd originally read over 30 years ago, with a class when I was teaching pre-teen girls. I noticed that even an adult reader would be wondering whether the gorgeous Johnny really &quot;liked&quot; Jean, or was merely one with a big ego. (I'll not spoil the story by saying which was the case.) I smiled in nostalgic, if bittersweet, recognition when, for example, Jean searched the dictionary for the definition of &quot;cute.&quot;<br />Fortunately, the book was written in the last days of when a conceited type could be taken at face value. We are spared the boring diversions into the psychology of the &quot;hunk&quot; which undoubtedly would divert us today.<br />As usual, Beverly Cleary presents vivid and highly enjoyable characters and situations, with which readers of any age can identify. Top fare.	2000-09-29
US	53009403	R1XGH5YTXO2M3R	0451173392	258285498	The Carbohydrate Addict's Diet: The Lifelong Solution to Yo-Yo Dieting (Signet)	Books	2	26	47	N	N	Read the fine print	If you had success with, for example, Atkins diet (as I have), think twice before you consider using this one. It is not truly low carbohydrate, and, if carbs stimulate your appetite all of the time, not only when consumed with no protein, this problem will not be eliminated. There are none of the benefits of appetite reduction, reduced fluid retention, or the slight metabolic advantage of a truly low carb program. The &quot;reward meal&quot; (a concept I loathe - since confirmed Atkids like myself base when and how much we eat solely on genuine hunger) is not so liberal as appears at first glance. It is very rigidly &quot;balanced&quot; and depends on protein portions being &quot;normal&quot; - which the Hellers define at three ounces. (Never mind the ADA pyramid - can you yourself get through a day on that little protein?) Eating desserts would be a disaster for many of us as well.<br />The entire book is annoyingly apologetic. Supposedly this is an alternative program, yet the authors are at their wits end to show conformity with the same old ADA food pyramid, even stressing that their diet can be used to increase intake of complex carbohydrates.<br />It may work for some, but it is not for those who have serious problems with carbohydrates.	2000-09-29
US	53009403	R19K5PFHN3DZY1	0380709546	226547601	Ramona the Pest	Books	5	29	31	N	N	Both the 12- and the 6-year old were rolling in the aisles	From my long past days of teaching elementary school, I remember that Beverly Cleary's books were the general favourite of those in my classes. I recently acquired sets for my niece and nephew, and this book in particular had both of them laughing aloud - not a small feat when kids are, respectively, 12 and 6, and the former is not without a marked similarity to Ramona in some respects. I myself nearly choked at &quot;sit here for the present,&quot; and the Mike Mulligan dilemma.<br />Besides a vivid and delightful writing style, Beverly's books undoubtedly have a wide appeal because the incidents described are comparable to what children would have in their own lives or in those of others they know. The characters seem like close friends ... or, at the very least, friends one wishes one had.	2000-09-29
US	53009403	R365HDX472ZROK	B00000J6J7	107982029	The Original Lap Reader in Tapestry Fabric	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Wonderful readers' companion	This delightful, attractive accesory is the perfect gift for avid readers - comfortable and functional. The only minor drawback is that the heaviest hardcovers tend to keep the tassels from marking one's spot as effectively as one may wish.	2000-09-22
US	53009403	R2L9USFYEM32AW	1568491611	330417962	The Peter Principle	Books	5	12	17	N	N	Brilliant, original, and wiser than one may think	Dr Peter's very on target analysis of rising to the level of incompetence is presented with great wit. The originality, so in contrast to the &quot;positive thinking&quot; which Dr Peter deplores, gives one much food for thought. The entire work is highly entertaining and enjoyable, the principle one that we'd be wise to observe. Excellent.	2000-09-22
US	53009403	R2I6DVIP3L3ZCT	034072238X	758218635	New Habits: Today's Women Who Choose To Become Nuns	Books	2	5	20	N	Y	Insightful but with a sad undertone	Surely, it will fascinate those unfamiliar with religious Sisters to read of the personal vocations of those interviewed. Many myths about convent life and those who choose it undoubtedly will be dispelled. Yet there was a certain disappointment in the presentation, where the trendy need to be &quot;relevant&quot; if not &quot;cool&quot; pointed out deficiencies which have arisen in a solid understanding of the consecrated life.<br />What lady with dignity would speak of past &quot;relationships&quot;? And for a nun to do so shows, sadly, that even many who are vowed to celibacy do not consider past fornication or concubinage to be wrong. This is not to say that the past keeps God from calling one later, but to refer to it so casually seems to indicate it was &quot;no big deal&quot; in the first place.	2000-09-22
US	53009403	R1C62UWZKW61U8	0892830719	94706762	St. Francis of Assisi: A Biography	Books	5	84	84	N	N	Solid, thorough, and balanced	Omer Englebert is one of few contemporary biographers of Francis of Assisi  whose presentation is neither excessively romantic nor squeezed desperately  into a late 20th century mould (of pure social justice and ecology). His  treatment of Francis's life is accurate and balanced, often warm and  humourous, and he presents a clear picture of the social, religious and  political conditions of Francis's time and place. This is the best recent  biography of Francis which I have seen - highly recommended.	2000-08-31
US	53009403	R28CWNXTYBPGLQ	0809124467	475988748	Francis and Clare: The Complete Works (The Classics of Western Spirituality) (English and Latin Edition)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Excellent collection of primary sources	I consider this volume a &quot;must have&quot; for anyone interested in  Franciscan history and spirituality. The content, translations, and notes  provide a very fine background in the original writings of Francis and  Clare.<br /> Until the Omnibus of Sources returns to &quot;print,&quot; this  is the best primary souce material available.	2000-08-30
US	53009403	R1S56Y1CMT6D54	0525943145	945662165	The Lessons of Saint Francis: How to Bring Simplicity and Spirituality into Your Daily Life	Books	4	16	17	N	Y	Nice blend of integration and integrity	John-Michael Talbot manages to crystallise essential of Franciscan  spirituality in a manner which makes it appealing and accessible for those  in any state of life. Of particular note are his words about prayer, the  practise of virtue, discretion and charity in dealing with others, and  maintaining integrity without letting one's zeal exceed one's prudence.	2000-08-27
US	53009403	R3RZ189EN8LWH7	0440235596	870989999	Tara Road (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Publisher must have needed a new title in a hurry	When Maeve's novels are amongst one's &quot;guilty pleasures,&quot; one is  quite accustomed to plowing through certain tedious sections, knowing they  tend to have relevance, in unexpected ways, later. In this case, the wading  is constant, and only literary quicksand ahead.<br />Maeve often is brilliant  in her characterisation, dialogue, and depiction of relationships. Not so  here - the plot, such as it is,  seems to go nowhere at all, and such  relationships as are not totally contrived are far too puzzling.	2000-08-23
US	53009403	R2UGQ4MSYKY774	0385313543	976995808	The Glass Lake	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent characterisation and theme	One could certainly point out deficiencies in The Glass Lake, with  implausible plot twists and tiresome later chapters at the top of the list.  However, Maeve's brilliance in character development, the depiction of  every sort of love relationship, and the underlying theme of facing  heartbreak and hard choices at midlife makes the temptation to criticise  evaporate.<br />The action drags at certain points, but several characters,  particularly Helen, Ivy, and Sister Madeleine (three highly different  personalities), are a marvellous kaleidoscope of women who took odd  directions to seek a cherished change in their lives. As well, all would  face the consequences of the choices - and I'll not spoil the outcome for  the new reader by saying whether they were positive or not. Helen, for all  of her intelligence and flair, is to explore whether a goal related to her  career is what actually frustrates her after all.<br />Perhaps Helen and  Madeleine have a bit too outstanding a flair for magical fixes (in all  lives except their own), but this, after all, is Ireland!<br />This rich,  compassionate, deep novel must be Maeve's best.	2000-08-23
US	53009403	R1C2GW8TMK06PV	0679742212	170788156	American Catholic: The Saints and Sinners Who Built America's Most Powerful Church	Books	4	8	10	N	Y	Many topics are intriguing - and new	The background history and chronicle of Irish influences which dominated  Catholicism in the United States answered many a question of mine. I'll  wryly state that the sort of Catholicism that one finds in, for example,  Andrew Greeley's novels had always seemed a caricature to me, but seeing  the genuine history presented in American Catholic made me understand how  very genuine some of the depictions are. The odd, &quot;American Way,&quot;  hybrid version of Catholicism in the States is quite clear in its  development as presented here.<br />Another interesting, in fact astonishing,  element which Morris develops was that Catholic universities, including  those staffed by Jesuits, were downgraded by the academic community  precisely because they integrated religious principles into studies.  Considering the elimination of the latter caused problems of another sort  later (I'll not spoil the reader's discovery of this by expounding), there  was a far greater dilemma here than I had imagined.<br />This work is very  valuable to those interested in either history or religious studies.	2000-08-18
US	53009403	R4JQ3F1CYEOG9	0892436387	187931287	The Revelation of Divine Love in Sixteen Showings Made to Dame Julian of Norwich	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Work of amazing depth and richness	Julian's work is a rich combination of ascetic, sacramental, and doctrinal  theology, presented with a haunting simplicity and charm. Through referring  entirely to her revelations, apparently a singular incident, Julian, with  obviously burning love, manages to set forth truths with great  understanding and depth. Readers will miss much of this, if they read it  solely as a feminist statement - her treatment of God as Mother, for  example, includes references to numerous doctrinal and sacramental  implications.<br />Superb work for anyone interested in Christian mysticism  at its best.	2000-08-12
US	53009403	R18KLMJMIR187E	1561011053	264200225	We Preach Christ Crucified: The Proclamation of the Cross in a Dark Age	Books	2	6	10	N	N	It is a strain to look for the points	The underlying theses of seeking to integrate the gospel message with  social justice, and to see Christ in those suffering, are so important and  intriguing in themselves that it is unfortunate that Kenneth Leech presents  points without developing them. The entire book is rather flat and  puzzling. For example, he mentions the classic Greek saints who were  &quot;fools for Christ&quot;, without adding the essential parts of their  stories that show their holiness - one wonders if insanity guaranteed the  heavenly crown in itself.  As both a devout Christian and a political  liberal, I had expected to be enriched by this work. That goal was not  fulfilled. Trying to figure out what Leech meant was tiresome.	2000-08-07
US	53009403	R35M25MA42NYEL	0728301229	938350040	Julian Reconsidered (Fairacres Publication)	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Thought provoking but too speculative	This book may well be valuable to those with a keen interest in Julian of  Norwich - provided it is not the first, or the only, work on the topic  which they consult. All that is known certainly of Julian's life is that  contained in her books, and Kenneth Leech, perhaps in an attempt to relate  her work to the 20th century conditions, is rather too speculative.  (Perhaps, once upon a time, it seemed important for some to believe Julian  had been a Benedictine nun - but is it so important, now, that she had to  have been a married lady? The fact is that we do not know even her true  name.)<br />Best not to place this on the shelf of anyone with an interest in  Julian, unless it is one of at least five works.	2000-08-07
US	53009403	RNYKNWN3HC8KC	0819216151	821050935	Resurrection: Interpreting the Easter Gospel	Books	5	50	55	N	Y	Extraordinary theological work	The richness of the content in this work can leave one using two  paragraphs as the meditation material for a week, and still knowing one has  barely scratched the surface. Bishop Williams not only skillfully develops  the message of the resurrection itself, but incorporates elements of  sacramental, ascetic, and mystic theology with brilliant, fresh insights.  His section on the Eucharist, for example, has a depth that is a banquet  for the mind and spirit.<br />This is not a work for the dilletante - it is  blessedly difficult and immensely thought provoking. It was the first Rowan  Williams book I read, and left me quite certain that he is one of the  greatest living theologians. Five stars are hardly enough.	2000-08-07
US	53009403	R1V0KEIULSGV8P	1556128630	85735182	Imaging the Divine: Jesus and Christ-Figures in Film (Communication, Culture, and Religion)	Books	3	9	14	N	Y	Primarily a highlight of deficiencies in theology	Lloyd Baugh's scholarship is impeccable, but, while his conclusions are clear and well-presented, this is far more a book for those who wish to explore how the human vision obscures the perception of Christology than  for anyone who has more of an interest in artistic forms. Baugh indeed  gives much attention to technical presentation, and his extensive knowledge  of cinematic art is unquestionable, but it is a curiously scientific  effort, and somehow unsatisfying.<br /> All would depend on perspective. In my  own case, though I agreed with many of the author's conclusion and found  some thought provoking, some of the very aspects I found excellent in  certain films (such as the &quot;extra-evangelical&quot; character  development in &quot;Jesus of Nazareth&quot;) are explored by the author as  diminishing the gospel message. The artist in me was disappointed that I  found the book so dull - especially because I recognised that, as far as  theology is concerned, Baugh is spot on.<br /> The book has great merits, but  don't acquire it as a gift for a film or theatre buff.	2000-08-02
US	53009403	R3Q3AT9QIK8TF6	082640698X	247809752	Invitation to Love: The Way of Christian Contemplation	Books	4	24	25	N	Y	Gentle, solid introduction to contemplation	Father Keating displays a gift for imparting essential points of mystic theology (a beauty so ancient and so new ... could not resist adding that, because many of his references are Augustinian) in a manner so gentle that  they seem simple reflections. (At this moment, I hope that my reference to  &quot;mystic theology&quot; does not cause potential readers to click the  back button.) Scriptural references abound, and are often haunting - so  much so that the translations (his own?), which are rather excessively  colloquial, do not make one wince. The author explains points clearly and  well, and generally with an engaging charm. Very fine work.	2000-07-28
US	53009403	R15QB0JXE4K5I	0829415505	625244411	Afterimage: The Indelible Catholic Imagination of Six American Filmmakers	Books	3	10	13	N	Y	Interesting and novel perspective	Though film synopses are not especially artistic or exciting, Fr Blake's thesis of how Catholic concepts of community, sacrament, and symbol influenced six major directors is well presented. The underlying ideas were  quite thought provoking, even if their relation to some film sequences  bordered on the contrived. Impeccable scholarship in a readable work - and  a good present for an intellectual film buff.	2000-07-27
US	53009403	RM406F65B5U5K	051770854X	210445606	The Calling : A Year in the Life of an Order of Nuns	Books	2	2	2	N	Y	No part developed sufficiently for a &quot;whole&quot; to emerge	The overall sense I received from this work is that Catherine Whitney is more interested in speaking of herself (without so much as answering the question of why she suddenly shifted from would-be religious Sister to  unbelieving radical feminist). The anecdotal information about several  Sisters in the earlier chapters seems a promise of real development later,  but this promise remains unfulfilled.<br /> Half stories, some of which seem  flavoured by stereotypes and prejudiced assumptions, are profoundly  unsatisfying, particularly since the natural presumption to which the early  chapters would lead was that depth, development, and understanding of the  various Sisters' situations would follow.	2000-07-27
US	53009403	R23T673D6DQ8FW	0879736550	512404556	Sisters in Crisis: The Tragic Unraveling of Women's Religious Communities	Books	3	31	53	N	N	Solid and interesting background in many areas	Anne Carey's exploration of such areas as the conditions which Sisters faced in previous decades, the LCWR beginnings, and the total confusion in which many communities found themselves is extensive and solid. For example, one can see the dilemma which many congregations faced when they sought to educate their Sisters for apostolic work. She does not glorify the &quot;old&quot; ways of convent life, and offers a quite vivid picture of how renewal, in many areas, went awry. There is a pleasing tone of compassion and respect as well as thorough reporting.<br /> Though some of the material in this book would rate five stars for depth and accuracy, Mrs Carey loses her journalistic detachment somewhere along the way, and becomes something of an apologist for fidelity to the magisterium. (For the record, I am neither a feminist nor one who sees no value in teaching authority.) It would be totally inaccurate to imply that conservative religious congregations are thriving - in fact, one community which is praised for its fidelity had only one novice, where there are particular &quot;change oriented&quot; groups which have a higher count. There is no attention to the problems which certain communities, seeking to return to &quot;old ways&quot; in order to attract candidates, created for themselves. It would have been helpful if, for example, approaches to prayer, spirituality and the vows, were explored, rather than solely fidelity to Vatican documents.<br />In a few cases, Mrs Carey (doubtless unintentionally) provides comments from Sisters which are intended to point out deficiencies, yet have another effect. For example, she references one Sister who cannot manage to say her prayers unless she rises at 5, but who finds she sleeps in unless the bell calls everyone to rising at that hour. Obviously intended to show how critical common prayer is, this example makes the Sister seem very childish.<br />Devastating though New Age and related practises are to the spiritual life, it would be highly inaccurate to imply that Sisters who disagree with the Vatican on points about common life and religious garb necessarily have fallen from the faith or commitment to their consecrated life. Sisters who have fallen into such practises are a definite minority!<br /> It is an interesting book, with well developed sections and strong historical significance in many areas. However, it comes across as biased and naive in others.it would be highly inaccurate to imply that Sisters who disagree with the Vatican on points about common life and religious garb necessarily have fallen from the faith or commitment to their consecrated life. Sisters who have fallen into such practises are a definite minority!<br /> It is an interesting book, with well developed sections and strong historical significance in many areas. However, it comes across as biased and naive in others.	2000-07-26
US	53009403	R1Q52ZMUXTWQDD	0300060769	200041965	The Stripping of the Altars: Traditional Religion in England, 1400-1580	Books	5	47	51	N	Y	Fascinating treatment which answers many questions	Be forewarned - even the most avid students of the Tudor era will find that many of their notions are challenged. The work is overwhelming in its intriguing detail, fleshing out the entire picture of English medieval  devotion as well as social conditions, and the impact of certain negative  aspects of the Reformation that many of us would prefer not to consider.<br />  Challenging and enriching as a work of history, the Stripping of the Altars  also will cause the devout to ponder many a point. This is no &quot;light  read&quot; - but the time and attention it takes to get through this  actually quite readable work will not be stressful, because it is so  totally engrossing. Put this on the shelf of anyone who wishes to fulfil  the Anglican exhortation to have an inquiring mind.	2000-07-21
US	53009403	R1GNFRLSSH58BI	0892438258	981638315	The Book of Margery Kempe: The Autobiography of the Madwoman of God (Triumph Classic)	Books	3	1	6	N	Y	Worth a look for any medievalist	This book manages to be of interest to anyone who wishes a travelogue of medieval pilgrimages, a humble recognition that even the oddest among us can have their minds very occupied with the divine, a look at the first  autobiography of an English woman, or a case study in obsessive compulsive  behaviour. Margery's disjointed recollections, coupled with her constant  references to her revelations and retroactive &quot;virginity,&quot;  admittedly are not a fun pursuit, but her extreme case does seem to place  much of the deficiencies inherited from the worst in medieval spirituality  (a legacy of the Plague ... even if the best of the era was the finest in  history) into perspective. I guarantee that, while one may find Margery as  troublesome as did those of her time and place, one will never find her  recollections dull.	2000-07-21
US	53009403	R3AZX4RL04HCS5	0826408052	557398152	Crisis of Faith, Crisis of Love (Vol 1)	Books	5	24	24	N	Y	Haunting treatment of the &quot;dark night&quot; in spiritual growth	Father Keating presents solid, classic concepts of mystic theology in a fashion so simple and gentle that the clarity is astonishing. As is usual in his works, one discovers new insight in (and often awe for) passages of  scripture one thought one knew all too well. He also incorporates brief  mention of sacramental theology - speaking a volume in a sentence.<br /> As  one example, Father Keating's treatment of the raising of Lazarus, lovely  in its simplicity, is a powerful look at faith, patience, love, original  sin, personal sin, reconciliation, and how Jesus's humanity was touched by  the incident.<br /> This book is not only suited for those with a deep  interest in theology - in fact, that does not seem the general intended  audience. Anyone with an interest in prayer and the gospels will find this  a peaceful but deep means to strengthening that commitment. Everything is  presented clearly and well, which is not a common trait of theologians!	2000-07-21
US	53009403	R1H2OTOJ4PPMWA	0809104407	272919212	Walter Hilton: The Scale of Perfection (CLASSICS OF WESTERN SPIRITUALITY)	Books	5	23	23	N	Y	Blend of the ascetic and pastoral is top fare	Walter Hilton's massive undertaking (the first thorough treatment of ascetic theology in the English language) is as rewarding for those today as in his own era - and a careful reading makes one realise that he was  treating many of the same difficulties we would find in our own time. This  is by no means light reading, but the lawyer's mind, theologian's  precision, and pastoral father's homely charm are a winning combination.  (How can anyone resist one who, after giving an explanation of sin so with  the lawyer's accuracy that one nearly searches for the section on plea  bargaining, then tenderly reassures his reader that God is most generous  with forgiveness or &quot;heaven would be much too empty?)I would recommend  it (if not require it) of anyone with an interest either in ascetic  theology or fourteenth century England.	2000-07-21
US	53009403	R1PCY3ICEK6Z6A	0814660533	727335819	Treasures from the Storeroom: Medieval Religion and the Eucharist	Books	5	26	26	N	Y	Original, intriguing, and solid as Gibraltar	This volume belongs on the shelf of any medievalist or student of theology. It is perhaps more enlightening for the 21st century than for the 13th century climate, since the pluralism of the latter was far more  genuine and intelligent. Its humour and insight make it a pleasant dose of  originality -  and it is the first comprehensive study I've seen of this  area. There is special attention to the Franciscan theologians (who, in  England particularly, were quite extraordinary - even Aquinas looks bland  next to Bonaventure and Duns Scotus.)<br /> Now that the climate is ripe for  remedying the problems created when &quot;contemporary&quot; theology meant  forgetting the accumulated wisdom of 2,000 years, this new, scholarly, but  immensely enjoyable (and occasionally hilarious) look at the topic is most  refreshing. Author Macy is superb as both a historian and a clear,  readable, original writer.	2000-07-21
US	53009403	R2DV2JDBKD56MG	0805058281	321440961	Shattered Faith: A Woman's Struggle to Stop the Catholic Church from Annulling Her Marriage	Books	1	17	54	N	N	&quot;Pity party&quot; vehicle for misinformation	Sheila Kennedy, on the strength of a popular family name, will undoubtedly be seen as a noble feminist voice, her assertions assumed to be accurate. Her statements about annulment procedures are highly inaccurate, and her  case studies far from any valid representative sample!If Sheila wishes to  oppose a church position, she should do so addressing what is true.<br />  Annulment proceedings, if compared to civil or common law, are definitely  in the &quot;contract law&quot; category - not, as Sheila asserts, a  criminal trial, where Catholics seek &quot;forgiveness for the sin of  divorce.&quot; Her being able to present this as  some form of misogyny is  absurd - nor does she note that it is more often the woman who requests an  annulment hearing.<br /> &quot;Case studies&quot; are hardly typical. All are  of successful women who &lt;i&gt;want&lt;/i&gt; to be divorced and consider  it a means to new freedom, and have no concern about remarrying in the  Church. One wonders if some of the women were mature enough for marriage at  all. One case is of a woman who broke out of a marriage where family  outings were interfering with her participation in dog shows. Not one had  been in a &quot;horror story&quot; marriage, nor were any, as is often the  case, opposing annulment because they were heartbroken about a breakup.<br />  The popularity of this book probably is a combination of the draw of the  name Kennedy, the current trends towards male bashing, and the fact that  anything anti-Catholic will sell, accurate or not.	2000-07-19
US	53009403	RZHQCTJDE7M87	080913991X	522589525	Julian of Norwich: Mystic and Theologian	Books	4	29	34	N	Y	Excellent resource	Grace Jantzen presents a thorough, interesting background of Julian's place, time, and spirituality. It is especially valuable because, unlike many other contemporary books on the topic, it is not speculative -  conclusions can be trusted because no half truths are justified. Excellent  scholarly work. Only the political correctness in the introduction is a bit  boring.	2000-07-18
US	53009403	RMQMUXNORHZG9	0786862734	143763076	The Low-Carb Cookbook: The Complete Guide to the Healthy Low-Carbohydrate Lifestyle with over 250 Delicious Recipes	Books	3	22	26	N	Y	Gourmet delight	The author's recipes are quite delightful, though they are more likely to appeal to &quot;seasoned&quot; cooks than to novices. The average kitchen may not have the ingredients for many of the recipes, though Fran gives  excellent directions for finding the best in provisions, and some of the  meals, wonderful as they are, would be too expensive for regular  preparation.<br />I sincerely hope that, in the next edition, the trendy and  boring references to &quot;comfort food&quot; are deleted. The constant  description of dishes as &quot;comforting&quot; became extremely annoying.	2000-06-02
US	53009403	R8WV2XBZWJ3YM	0966883101	290184189	How I Gave Up My Low Fat Diet and Lost Forty Pounds!	Books	4	15	18	N	N	Refreshing honesty - from one who knows	My own experience of raging hunger and fatigue (without weight loss) on low fat diets, and confusion about &quot;what is wrong with me&quot; as a result, matches that of the author. Her honesty, and realistic means for  using the (for many of us, miraculous) low carbohydrate approach, is quite  valuable. Some of the chatty style is unintentionally offensive when the  author tries to be humourous. Those readers who were (or are) larger than  the author was, and who are struggling to get to the point where she was  when she was a &quot;blimp&quot;, would not appreciate her attempt at wit  in describing herself that way. Though doctors will never accept this  truth, there is no one approach that suits all - and it is wonderful to see  that openly admitted.	2000-05-03
US	53009403	R39ZBDKAW3J220	0380727293	183030674	Dr. Atkins' New Diet Revolution	Books	5	87	91	N	N	The best book no one seems to read	What follows is a review of Atkins diet which I submitted in 2000. I shall add an update as I write this in 2009. I have now lost a total of over 80 pounds, and am down to what I weighed at the age of 13 - not bad for a post-menopausal woman. My cholesterol is 138 (where, pre Atkins, it was 290.) My original review provides most of what I need to say of the book, which I would give fifteen stars were that possible. However, I shall add one word of caution about what passes as 'low carb' today. Stick to Atkins! There are many supposed 'low carb' programmes which are not low in carbohydrates (except by comparison to that dreadful ADA food pyramid.)<br /><br />The review from 2000:<br /><br />I have lost over sixty pounds and maintained the loss for over five years thanks to Atkins diet. After thirty years of fruitless dieting - and the accompanying, constant hunger and weakness - I must say that there is only  one \\"side effect\\" to the diet: eating with others will solicit  comments about how \\"I thought pasta was good for you\\" and the  like. I've known others who, like myself, actually read the entire book and  had similar (or greater) success. (A co-worker lost 130 pounds and has  maintained that loss for three years to date, for example.) There truly is  no hunger, no cravings, no fatigue, no needing to be obsessed with dieting,  no living in a gym - and no regain. But I have frequently been puzzled when  I have met or heard from those who cannot take Dr Atkins' word for what his  diet is. They combine the \\"sage wisdom\\" of other plans, believing  they read it in Atkins book, or take prejudiced comments from elsewhere and  assume them to be true. The common assumption - that Atkins dieters are  constantly stuffing themselves with high fat foods, undoubtedly in a  contest to see who can consume the most calories in a day - is absurd.  After the first few weeks, one experiences a blessed reduction in appetite  and absence of any cravings. (Politically incorrect as it is to state the  truth - for many people, eating high carbohydrate foods when hungry has an  effect similar to drinking from the ocean when thirsty.)Though there is no  weighing, measuring, or keeping diaries, one finds that one's caloric  intake is drastically reduced. The other fictions - that this is a  temporary diet (that is true only of Induction - which prejudiced reviewers  present as the entire diet) - that Atkins dieters are aiming for a heart  attack soon (I doubt a cardiologist has much interest in killing his  patients..) - that staying on the diet leads to weight gain - all are  ridiculous. It is true that one will gain weight if one goes back to a high  carbohydrate diet - but why would anyone who has a problem with carbs want  to do so? Those contemplating following the diet MUST read the book in its  entirety, and not add what they were taught elsewhere.  I would include my  E-Mail address, except that, when I've made favourable comments about this  diet on Internet fora, I've been deluged with E-Mail that tells me how  wrong I am... Everett Koop's \\"successes\\" lost only 12 pounds in a  year. Other \\"successes\\" with high carb, low fat programmes, of  which I've read on the Internet, had track records such as losing 19 pounds  and gaining half of it back soon. I've seen studies where those who  \\"successfully\\" lost weight through exercise lost only six pounds  in a year. The new wisdom is that one should not lose more than a pound a  month. ...I'll take Atkins any day.ruth - for many people, eating high carbohydrate foods when hungry has an  effect similar to drinking from the ocean when thirsty.)Though there is no  weighing, measuring, or keeping diaries, one finds that one's caloric  intake is drastically reduced. The other fictions - that this is a  temporary diet (that is true only of Induction - which prejudiced reviewers  present as the entire diet) - that Atkins dieters are aiming for a heart  attack soon (I doubt a cardiologist has much interest in killing his  patients..) - that staying on the diet leads to weight gain - all are  ridiculous. It is true that one will gain weight if one goes back to a high  carbohydrate diet - but why would anyone who has a problem with carbs want  to do so? Those contemplating following the diet MUST read the book in its  entirety, and not add what they were taught elsewhere.  I would include my  E-Mail address, except that, when I've made favourable comments about this  diet on Internet fora, I've been deluged with E-Mail that tells me how  wrong I am... Everett Koop's \\"successes\\" lost only 12 pounds in a  year. Other \\"successes\\" with high carb, low fat programmes, of  which I've read on the Internet, had track records such as losing 19 pounds  and gaining half of it back soon. I've seen studies where those who  \\"successfully\\" lost weight through exercise lost only six pounds  in a year. The new wisdom is that one should not lose more than a pound a  month. ...I'll take Atkins any day.	2000-05-02
US	53009403	RH962C5X62M81	0963378805	856403657	Much Laughter, a Few Tears: Memoirs of a Woman's Friendship With Betty Macdonald and Her Family	Books	1	7	9	N	N	Disappointing	As one who is a great fan of Betty MacDonald's, I had hoped that this book would provide details beyond those in Betty's own books. It proved very disappointing. Blanche writes mostly of her own (very ordinary) life,  adding a brief reference to, or funny line uttered by, Betty and family  here and there. Only the first chapter, which refers to when Betty and  Blanche were teens, has even a \\"full length anecdote.\\" Sections  that seem promising (for example, Blanche's mentioning she was eager to see  Betty after her marriage for details about the meeting and courtship) lead  to no further information. There are several photographs of Betty and one  of her sister Mary, but none of any other family members. Don't purchase  this one second hand for more than 50 cents.	2000-04-12
US	53009403	R30M2PECQRRONY	059002907X	950975716	Mary Jane	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Powerful messages combined with enjoyable teen tale	Dorothy Sterling brilliantly interweaves the shocking, painful truth about segregation's effects with everyday happenings (chats in a &quot;secret clubroom&quot;, purchasing grownup clothing, a beautiful new bedroom) with  which any teen would identify. The pleasant and friendly aspects of the  latter, combined with dialogue involving Mary Jane's lovely family, make  the former message all the more powerful. As a white Northerner, I can say  honestly that many of Dorothy Sterling's subtle points presented me with  the full impact of segregation's effects (which I abhor.) There is no  question that Mary Jane (child of a prosperous lawyer, granddaughter of a  professor, and living five blocks from the school) is hated entirely  because of her race - no elements of class distinction and the like. The  violent protestors on the school's steps somehow shocked me less (since  hate-mongers always have some reason to &quot;protest&quot;) than Sally's  parents being special because they encouraged integration as obedience to  the Supreme Court (rather than because segregation was an outrage), and  actually were polite to Negroes (how expansive of them! even if their  daughter cannot visit her closest friend's home.) The themes are easily  accessible for the young reader because the book is not written with hatred  or bitterness - merely a presentation of the facts that makes them  especially vivid. Mrs Sterling wisely does not add other issues to the  theme, which would only take away from the underlying truth that she  manages to present in a vivid, entertaining, and engrossing style. Mary  Jane has been a good friend of this reader's for over thirty years.	2000-04-04
US	53009403	R2G2IFR76IJ8B6	1561010561	853293541	Holy Listening: The Art of Spiritual Direction	Books	4	9	12	N	Y	Solid, understandable, and refreshingly honest	In an era where &quot;self-help&quot; masquerades as spiritual guidance, Rev. Guenther's presentation, well grounded in the scriptures and the traditions of ascetic theology, is exceedingly valuable. The writing is  very clear and understandable, when even the more difficult truths are  presented.	2000-04-04
US	53009403	R2WYJ40TY1BVRA	0892838108	658395925	Seeking Spiritual Direction: How to Grow the Divine Life Within	Books	5	60	60	N	Y	Masterpiece of ascetic theology and loving application today	Father Dubay's presentation, refreshing in its \\"gospel truth\\" rather than trendy psychology or New Age pablum, is a brilliant exposition of ascetic theology, flavoured with deep insight and a \\"working knowledge\\" of true Christian charity.<br /><br />Father Dubay works from extensive experience, but his book is always solidly grounded on the Scriptures and the writings of the classic spiritual guides. He does not omit the \\"unpopular\\" notions (obedience, informed conscience, etc.) , and, relating them to the visions of Vatican II, makes it clear that the Church has never denied their vitality.<br /><br />Those who are not Roman Catholic, or whose primary emphasis is not on fidelity to the magisterium, should not find Father Dubay's stress on such fidelity to be off-putting. Obedience, in some sense, is always integral to spiritual direction, and there are other aspects of his thought that are valuable to all which \\"hide\\" behind these passages. For example, in one illustration, Father Dubay speaks of how a director must be honest in pointing out that contraception or failure for religious to wear distinctive garb contradicts Vatican teachings. These examples may be troublesome to non-Catholics, yet the underlying point is universal: how spiritual directors must keep those in their care from self-deception or rationalising.<br /><br />This is the \\"genuine article\\" - true ascetic theology. It is not a handbook for a weekend read that sets one to believing s/he has reached the heights of sanctity in a few days. My only regret is that it was not available twenty years earlier.	2000-04-01
US	53009403	R3ESJDLF5851U	B00000J6J6	524500352	The Original Lap Reader in Michelle's Garden Fabric	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The Amazon review said it all	I can only agree with the review provided by Amazon.com (above). I find the lap pillow very functional, comfortable, and attractive, and have it on my gift list for friends who share my passion for reading.	2000-04-01
US	53009403	R33B81BME4FEIW	0684854376	372852220	I'll Be Right Back: Memories of TV's Greatest Talk Show	Books	3	5	6	N	Y	Nice gift for the nostalgic	For those of us who remember watching Mike's show daily in the 1960s, browsing the photos, and having Mike's easy-going style expressed in the text, rather compensate for the flimsiness of the material Our own memories  (particularly of the wonderfully diverse guests, from various entertainment  fiels - and this in an era when there were topics other than sex and breast  cancer to discuss) fill in the blanks.<br />Those looking for literary  expression, intriguing anecdotes, or deep dimensions of character will need  to look elsewhere. This book is just a casual visit with an old friend. As  such, it might be a nice gift for a nostalgic relative.	2000-03-31
US	53009403	R319UEK0CP0MG3	0838752888	321103714	Chaucer and the Mystics: The Canterbury Tales and the Genre of Devotional Prose	Books	2	5	6	N	Y	This just HAD to be a doctoral thesis...	...written by one who was at his wit's end to find an original topic. As a medievalist with a special interest both in Chaucer and the mystics of the era, it was obvious to me that the author was bending the words of the  latter to fit Chaucer's characters. Neither aspect, fascinating though both  are, survived the operation.	2000-03-27
US	53009403	RLAAW5ZQ083ND	1874597715	772107492	Special Intentions	Books	2	3	3	N	Y	Disappointingly shallow	Anyone looking for insight either into convent life or the renewal/upheaval of the 1960s is likely to find little in this volume. Though there is a fair amount of humour, including a chuckle at Maura's  naivete (at least, if one is another nun of the era, as I am!), character  development is poor, and Maura seems extremely self-centred. No depth  whatever - and therefore no insight.	2000-03-27
US	53009403	R1FOG7YZKXZB79	0826406971	854497084	The Mystery of Christ: The Liturgy as Spiritual Experience	Books	5	77	78	N	Y	Fresh insights on timeless truths	Father Keating's haunting, exquisite reflections on the Scriptures and liturgy bring new depth and freshness to passages one may have heard a hundred times - but which, with each chapter, seem refreshingly new. For  example, his treatment of the Annunciation, John the Baptist, and the  parable of the Prodigal Son, and the continuing call to holiness in each  incident, presented beautiful truths in an engaging, casual, and  deceptively simple style. Father Keating's words about the &quot;double  bind&quot; (doing God's will when two &quot;callings&quot; seem contrary),  which he applies to the Passion of Christ itself, are intense food for  thought, and he skillfully presents them in terms which are very easy to  understand. Excellent work for anyone interested in the spiritual life.	2000-03-27
US	53009403	R3CFC1OLXOJUQ3	0898701619	692968178	And You Are Christ's: The Charism of Virginity and the Celibate Life	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Masterpiece of capturing the essence of celibate love	Father Dubay's moving and genuinely realistic presentation of the gift of consecrated celibacy takes us beyond the usual stereotypes of celibate life as strictly a means to enhance one's service or show a commitment to community life. Using the classic, solid background which has endured for  2000 years of Christianity, Father Dubay presents a brief but deep  exploration of the love, sacrifice, and commitment of vowed chastity,  unhampered by trendy or empty references.	2000-03-24
US	53009403	R2FK7QWF7ZL7K2	0671814524	137168774	The Cardinal	Books	3	19	21	N	N	Some strong truths, some excessive dramatics	The Cardinal cries out for negative criticism, but remains, despite its shortcomings, an enormously entertaining book, with a few flashes of religious insight. Though it tends to present faith in a context of very  elaborate dramatics, the underlying story of Stephen Fermoyle's struggle  with his pride and self-righteousness, and the mistakes made by  well-intentioned and truly committed priests who fight such traits, is  valid and insightful. Some of the &quot;battles&quot; the bishop fights  seem quaint today: his &quot;heroic&quot; stance against contraception at a  time when birth control was illegal and all denominations agreed, for  example, seems more the action of a man who loves to hear his own voice.  The book's constantly repeated theme that &quot;if it is North American -  be it idea, priest, violin, or politics - it not only is greatly superior  but will keep the rest of the world in awe&quot; is very irritating, but  does show a prevalent view of the era which, in another form, was to have  devastating affects on the Church in later decades. There also is a  prevailing idea tha t those who stick to moral principles end up huge  successes - the doctor who would not crush the babies heads is later tops  in his field, the brother who sacrificed his law studies to finance a  search for his lost sister is adviser to Al Smith! Yet the book does have a  timeless appeal. It is rather pleasant and moving to remember a time when  religion played a greater role in people's lives - when, even in America,  there was more to life than a career. And one cannot help a smile, despite  Stephen's mistakes, remembering an idealistic era when people would believe  that a young woman who slept with her non-Catholic boyfriend was the worst  problem a priest in the confessional would hear (not that this ever was  true.)	2000-03-22
US	53009403	R1TE1CGNZ9MYVI	0385335121	870989999	Tara Road: Oprah Selection #26	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Disappointing	I am one to obtain every Maeve Binchy novel before the ink is dry - but this was not one of her better efforts. Maeve's forte is character development and relationships, and those she presented here seemed rather  trite. Any reader of Maeve's work knows that her books often have their  &quot;slow&quot; spots, but this was one work that seemed never to go  anywhere.	1999-09-10
US	53009403	R21AHI6J3LCAJA	0767903625	142134349	Wake Up, I'm Fat!	Books	2	5	17	N	N	Nothing of note	Though Camryn's comments about how society treats the overweight are on target, there is little originality here, and the humour is as stale as vaudeville.	1999-09-03
US	53009403	R1EBN9R453MKJS	0451194721	165318613	Son of Rosemary: The Sequel to Rosemary's Baby	Books	1	1	1	N	N	Diabolically dreadful	At this point, most of the other &quot;one star&quot; reviewers have &quot;said it all&quot;, and I fully agree. I must add that it was especially disappointing because the potential for an intriguing premise  (... haven't all of us fans of Rosemary's Baby longed to speculate about  what happened when the little devil became too big for his bassinet?) cried  out to be fulfilled:)	1999-08-20
US	53009403	R3HFX3JY9U4BLO	0965668649	181911925	I Wish I Were Thin...I Wish I Were Fat: The Real Reasons We Overeat & What We Can Do About It	Books	1	0	5	N	N	Absolute nonsense that strengthens stereotypes!	It's sad to think of how many women will read this  trendy pop psychology  rubbish and think &quot;she's talking about me!&quot; Worse yet, those  without weight problems will be further convinced of the supposed  subconscious needs to be fat that brand those who do..One star was too many  for this volume - save your money!	1998-08-26
US	53009403	R2JZYLD7CLBAWV	080198758X	803439103	Life Is Not a Dress Size: Rita Farro's Guide to Attitude, Style, and a New You	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Author knows that fashion is expressive and fun!	This delightful, creative approach to style breaks out of the usual tired tips to include self-expression, bold use of colour, personal designs, and plain fun. Its humourous, and all too true, accounts of the dilemmas plus-size ladies face is refreshingly original as well. With the topic currently &quot;hot&quot;, it is marvellous to see a presentation that is original rather than a boring repeat of current buzz words.	1998-07-31
US	53009403	R3912YD58KR7YQ	1559724234	834508659	No Fat Chicks: How Big Business Profits Making Women Hate Their Bodies-How to Fight Back	Books	3	8	8	N	Y	Expose on target - but cut the cliches in the next printing	The author's refreshing honesty about the exploitation inherent in the weight loss industry is excellent. Though I was sorry she did not develop this particular section further, it was encouraging to see that someone will come out in print about the condescending contempt that those not meeting the ideal of thinness receive from many doctors.<br /> Unfortunately, Ms Poulton unwittingly reinforces some of the very stereotypes that expose larger women to contempt. It is very true that, as many large women come to know, even avidly observing a diet can lead to significant weight loss, but one who continues to follow the diet finds that doing so does not lead her to thinness - eventually, weight loss stops dead, and the reducing diet becomes &quot;maintenance&quot; of its own accord. Her tiresome reference to her &quot;comfort eating&quot;, which frequently is not at all the reason that thinness cannot be attained, contradicts her &quot;diets don't work&quot; position. It only!  reinforces the common but untrue stereotype that diets don't work because people start overeating!<br /> The author makes enough references to her rigid lowfat diet to make it contradictory for her to continue to insist she does not believe in diets -  &quot;a rose by any name...&quot;. Also, she apparently is not aware that many heavy women have achieved some success with weight loss with the very diets she condemns. It also seems puzzling that one who condemns the diet industry, and appropriately so, continues to say that she is in favour of weight control and opposed to obesity. How, one wonders, does she expect this to happen, when she herself admits that many of us will never be thin? A size ten is &quot;obese&quot; by the current standards!<br /> Overall, the book is worthwhile, but the contradictions can do there share of harm. The sort of doctors who treat overweight women with contempt, for example, do not need to be further convinced that these same women would be thin we! re they not &quot;turning to comfort foods.&quot;&quot;turning to comfort foods.&quot;	1998-07-30
US	53009403	R38LOSS89N5PI3	0515105198	270050572	To Sir with Love	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Absorbing - and a keen picture of varied social classes	I first read this book in the 1950s edition, and doubt I've missed rereading it during any year since. (The only part that troubled me when I received my new copy is that a book originally published as biography is now classed as a &quot;novel&quot; - it would lose much of its impact if I learnt that it was fiction.)<br /> Though To Sir with Love is in no way preachy, and is spared the triteness of 90s political correctness, we see not only Braithwaite's own struggle, as a cultured black man encountering blatant prejudice, but his heightened awareness of the situation of students who are trapped by ignorance, poverty, and prejudices of their own. It is a brilliant study with memorable characters - and its humour prevents its becoming a sociology book! I regret there were no further books of this type by Mr Braithwaite ... I'm still wondering what happened next!	1998-07-29
US	53009403	R35Q0FV6ZQT3Z7	1568490992	401313516	With Love from Karen	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Even better than Karen - and with yet another heroine	Marie Killilea brings us more of the courage, love, and faith she showed in &quot;Karen&quot; - and all the more powerfully, for not only the disabled Karen but the profoundly Catholic Gloria are the heroines of this book. The love for life and rich humour that both had, despite the heartbreak of their situations, is powerful. And,  to top it off, there are many hilarious scenes as well.	1998-07-29
US	53009403	R3GS6YSTOT0CUF	0786863986	713265752	A Monk Swimming	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Reader must assume the role of a bartendar	Granted - there are a number of very witty lines in this book, and I don't doubt that I'd find Malachy quite hilarious were I serving him in a pub. However, this book has no depth and seems extremely egotistical - no plot, no theme, just the constant rambling and repetition that is known all too well by anyone who has loved an alcoholic.	1998-07-29
US	53009403	R2LV2Y81GDCTAU	0425146189	979329792	Fabulous You!: Unlock Your Perfect Personal Style	Books	4	5	7	N	N	True to the concept of personal style!	This refreshing offering in the fashion genre is outstanding because it genuinely treats of personal style. (Too many others, ostensibly doing the same, repeat the same tired exhortation to the look that is termed professional - which usually means dowdy.) The presentation is enjoyable and fun, and readers should appreciate the both useful and lighthearted approach to colour.	1998-07-29
