US	53006923	R2GGTCWB4H1SAJ	0970704607	865107559	Build Your Own Log Furniture:  Ten Great Projects You Can Build For Fun or Profit	Books	3	23	26	N	Y	Practical book, but too little text	This is a practical book for working with dry softwood logs. Among others, it has 15 pages on tools, 35 p. on some basics (joinery, finishes...) and 50 p. on various projects. However this includes some big pictures and a lot of white space, or wasted space (e.g. a check list covering 4 pages, with only 15 items /page, and looking useless and  stupid to me, pp. 37-40), so that in the end there is not much text per page in average. Although some traditional tools are exposed, everything in the book is meant to be made with power tools (but one could also use traditional tools). <br /> <br />This book does contain some real, practical teaching to help you build things  (unlike a book with a deceptive title, Daniel Mac's Making Rustic Furniture). However, as it has so much white space and so little text, I think that it is definitely not worth its price (maybe it should be sold for about 10 dollars?). <br />If you want to get something for your money, buy instead Drew Langsner's Green Woodworking.	2005-06-16
US	53006923	R2W8BLF11HL6MZ	0806982640	782175356	Making Rustic Furniture	Books	1	20	24	N	Y	Deceptive title...	Misled by its title, I was expecting that this book was about making rustic furniture. <br />However only the last third of the book is about this. <br />Two thirds of the books (100 p.) consists in  a gallery of pictures (with some comments), mostly chairs. Their style is not modern, but not traditional either. I find most to be weird or snob. Actually many look postmodern to me (they may not all be from the author, but from his friends -many being also from New York City like him). These may be a source of inspiration for some, but definitely not what I am looking for. <br /> <br />And that last third of the book, about making things is also quite a deception in itself. It is a collection of shallow articles by other authors, who show projects they make,   with a very vague and general talk about the technique they use. One uses tenons and mortises (anyone knowing a bit about conventional woodworking will not learn anything here), and worse, others use nails and even bolts (the last one). I really learned nothing from this. In addition, this is all about dry wood.  <br /> <br />I recommend instead Les Smith's Build your own Log Furniture (only a little bit of technique, for dry softwood, but at least something...), and much more a book where you really can learn many things: Drew Langsner's Green Woodworking.	2005-06-16
US	53006923	R3V66BC74TBT1J	0937274828	659119165	Green Woodworking: A Hands-On-Approach	Books	5	33	34	N	Y	Practical, traditional, green, healthy	This book (2nd & updated edition) is about \\"Green woodworking\\". What is this? It is working on freshly cut wood, which has a lot of advantages (e.g. the wood is softer). The wood is also not sawn along its length, which results in much greater wood strength (no fibres cuts) and makes it less prone to deformations following variations of moisture. If thin pieces of wood are required, then they are obtained by splitting the wood along its fibres (grain). However, as the author honestly admits, it does not allow to build some styles of furniture that one can make with conventional woodworking (but I can imagine a combination of both kinds of woodworking should be possible for making at least all kinds of traditional furniture.)    But, as the author makes clear at the beginning of the book, green woodworking is much more than a mere technique. It is first of all a tradition : a know-how transmitted from generation to generation in traditional places such as the European countryside, since ages. Being a real tradition it is also a natural, green way of life: it requires using one's muscles in a natural manner (no need for \\"fitness\\" or diet), does not pollute the environment (no production of electricity required nor burning of gas). As it does not involve any dangerous machines, nor motor noise nor production of cancer-giving wood micro-particles, it does not imply a high risk of harming the woodworker's health as is the case with conventional (modern)  woodworking. And is more pleasant : no need to wear ear protections or a particle filter... but instead using traditional, charming tools and performing those same gestures our ancestors have performed for so many generations.    It is nice to read that the author learned this tradition in the correct manner : from an old woodworker (in spite of the language barrier!), in a remote place high in the Swiss mountains. Throughout the book, I discovered that he also learned, although not directly, from other branches of traditions, such as Mennonite woodworking or Indians.     The major part of the book is about how the techniques themselves : materials (wood in general and different kinds of woods), knife-work, hewing, riving (splitting), shaving, boring, bending, joinery. All of the this is very seriously exposed, with many practical details but also some theoretical background. However I think he should also have covered working with wooden planes, such as the excellent planes manufactured by the German traditional company E.C.E.  The book teaching also various things, such as making a shaving horse, and covers also more than woodworking, showing how to use bark to make some kinds of Indian sacks, or how to use the inner bark to make the seating part of a chair.    I found this book excellent. It could have been even better if the author knew German (what a pity it does not, you really need to know German for such a subject), as the tradition of green woodworking has remained alive in Germanic countries. Some German books have parts on green woodworking, allowing one to know how it was slowly supplanted, starting with the early medieval times, by the fashion of using sawn wood, but remained alive among farmers living in forest areas. BTW I can recommend to those in Europe a practical and well exposed book available(...): Tove Yde's Grünholz Schnitzen (translated from the Danish).    The present book ends with a topically-arranged bibliography (unfortunately covering only English books). I highly recommend this seriously written book, as it is packed with information, may save you some money on power tools and may also  help you   preserving your health : a good alternative to our pollution-based societies...	2005-06-16
US	53006923	R15UDVHV618NDG	0830826947	824915432	Philosophical Foundations for a Christian Worldview	Books	3	93	123	N	N	Disappointment	The authors are two Baptist professors of philosophy at the evangelical Talbot school of theology. The present thick book (654 p.) is mostly a compilation of summaries or passages from the authors' earlier works in philosophy. For those like me who have already read their works, the potential interest of this book would be the successful integration of their earlier works into a worldview, that is a consistent view and in particular into a Christian one, given the commitment of the authors to the intellectual defense of Christianity. How do they succeed?<br />First of all let us think of the organisation of the book. In Anglo-Saxon countries the academic world is \\"organised\\" according to positivism, in the sense that all academic fields (except the natural and possibly social) fields have been excluded from \\"science\\", unlike Europe, where universities, due to a lesser positivist influence, still have faculties called \\"religious sciences\\", \\"human sciences\\", etc. In a similar manner, in Anglo-Saxon countries, in philosophy, the topic of \\"God\\" has been excluded from metaphysics, and is found in the field of \\"philosophy of religion\\". As the present book is directed at Christians and not mainstream readers, I was hoping the authors would not follow the positivist view. Unfortunately they failed by uncritically organising their book according to positivism, even to the point of restricting \\"science\\" to the \\"natural sciences\\", and moving out of the metaphysics section major metaphysical questions (realism, God, space and time...)!<br />Secondly let us look at the integration of views expressed in the book. Critical readers know that the different views emitted by Craig in his various apologetics arguments contradict each other. I was expecting Craig to have worked on solving this when making this book. Instead the book is replete with contradictions.<br />One example of inconsistency is about divine omniscience. Craig still rejects omniscience (favoring instead middle-knowledge, a doctrine I think wrong), but when trying to defend exclusivism (the view that humans who did not get a chance to hear the gospel go to hell!), he argues that God knows about each human if he/she will believe or not the gospel so that God places those would-be believers at a place where they will hear it... which requires God to be omniscient! (BTW exclusivism was not a belief of the early church, I would rather have expected some major Christian doctrines such as deification / theologal virtues).<br />Another example of inconsistency is about relativity. In his discussion of time, Craig rejects (wrongfully in my opinion) the B-Theory of time, and then also Einstein's relativity!!! Yet he uses Einstein's relativity in his cosmological argument!!!<br />Finally it is quite disappointing , not to say irritating, to see how little work Craig put into this book. Much of his contributions consists in cutting and pasting what he wrote elsewhere, even the introduction of the present book, taken from the introduction of his book Reasonable Faith. Moreover Craig's style is sometimes unworthy of a philosopher, being rather rhetorical (e. g. he writes that \\"fatalism INFECTED...\\"). Some of Craig's contributions are simply entirely misleading (the \\"philosophy of space and time\\" deals only with time!) or show no improvements. For example, why can't he see that proponents of the B-Theory of time don't have to see their experience as irrational, but only as relative to their moving along the time dimension in which they are stuck (unlike an omniscient creator who would see the time-line in an absolute manner). Or how can Craig still reject Einstein's relativity and accept instead Lorentzian relativity, the latter implying a \\"mischievous\\" epistemology as he himself concedes (and why not then think that the world or our existence is an illusion if we are to be so deluded?)<br />In conclusion, as Craig has not solved the contradictions between his different Christian apologetics arguments, nor solved some other problems, this book lacks consistency and credibility and therefore fails at providing a plausible worldview. After reading this book, I think even more that Craig is more interested in converting people than in making good philosophy, I am afraid to say. A better integration can be found in the works of the Baptist thinker Norman Geisler (even if I think he is wrong about issues such the making of the Christian canon and inerrancy), probably because Geisler has used the resources of thomistic philosophy, the cathedral of Christian thought built by Thomas Aquinas.<br />The present book may however be useful for those who want to get an overview of the authors' works, before possibly reading their specific books or papers (but beware of the kinds of problems I mentioned above). I must add that I did not find Moreland's contributions problematic (but only Craig's), so that I still give three stars to the book.s arguments, nor solved some other problems, this book lacks consistency and credibility and therefore fails at providing a plausible worldview. After reading this book, I think even more that Craig is more interested in converting people than in making good philosophy, I am afraid to say. A better integration can be found in the works of the Baptist thinker Norman Geisler (even if I think he is wrong about issues such the making of the Christian canon and inerrancy), probably because Geisler has used the resources of thomistic philosophy, the cathedral of Christian thought built by Thomas Aquinas.<br />The present book may however be useful for those who want to get an overview of the authors' works, before possibly reading their specific books or papers (but beware of the kinds of problems I mentioned above). I must add that I did not find Moreland's contributions problematic (but only Craig's), so that I still give three stars to the book.	2004-04-25
US	53006923	R3F9R9IFN8LTJG	0684869136	460969074	The Bible Unearthed: Archaeology's New Vision of Ancient Israel and the Origin of Its Sacred Texts	Books	5	23	33	N	Y	Intellectual honesty beyond fundamentalism and minimalism	The authors are directors of Archeological institutes and are authorities concerning the archeology of the early Palestine. This book is a popular work where they make accessible to a broad public the main facts, interpretations / arguments, and their conclusions. The book is organised according to the chronology that is traditionally derived from the Old Testament, starting with the patriarchs and ending with the return out of Babylon.<br />This field is quite controversial. On one side some (sceptical, \\"minimalist\\") authors will assert that event described in the Old Testament for which there is no archeological evidence (actually most of the Old Testament) is 100% fabrication and does not contain one shred of truth. On the other side some (fundamentalist) authors will maintain that everything contained in the Old Testament occurred exactly as described, even if it runs contrary to the archeological results. Fortunately the authors of this book seem to hold a very reasonable position.<br />For example, concerning the story of the exodus of the Hebrews out of Egypt, the authors make clear that given that there is no trace whatsoever of the exodus in spite of the extensive high tech archeological research in the Sinai area and given that the Pentateuch (the five first books of the Old Testament) describes an exodus involving 600 000 persons for 40 years, the biblical account simply can't be true - so much for the fundamentalists. On the other hand, the authors are wise enough to avoid entirely discarding the exodus story -  so much for the minimalists. The archeological finds only prove that the exodus did not happen in the manner described in the Pentateuch. It has probably a kernel of truth but was only immensely exaggerated by those who wrote the Pentateuch. An other example of the author's wise approach is the controversial issue of the existence of the Hebrew kings David and Solomon. Out of the weak evidence for the existence of David and the lack of evidence for the existence of Solomon, they do not conclude that these kings never existed, but only that the extent and splendour of their realm have been enormously exaggerated by the people who wrote the Ancient Testament.<br />The book has hardly any footnotes but ends with a detailed bibliography. It deals with many interesting issues and arguments in a calm and serious manner, a manner that respires intellectual honesty and inspires trust. Although I have read quite more difficult (scholarly) works on these issues, the present book is the one that seems to be the most reliable and that I like most out of all of them. Greatly recommended.	2004-03-19
US	53006923	R1E2JDM2AH9L45	1570718423	153412243	101 Myths of the Bible: How Ancient Scribes Invented Biblical History	Books	4	27	35	N	Y	Easy and well written book: eye opener for fundamentalists	The author, Gary Greenberg, is an NYC attorney with apparently a Jewish background. He has written books on quite diverse subjects. He has also been quite involved in Palestinian and Egyptian archeology.<br />The present book is a popular work that is written in a easy, straightforward and convincing manner.  It is organised in 101 entries. Each entry deals with an assertion of the Ancient Testament, containing first a passage from the Ancient Testament (\\"The Myth\\"), then a sentence deconstructing it (\\"The Reality\\"). Then the author explains the concerned passage, putting it into context, and going through several arguments to find out what authentic fact lies the at the basis of that biblical passage.<br />Greenberg deals mostly with passages from the Pentateuch, showing that many passages are derived from Egyptian religion. At other times he uses inner contradictions of the Ancient Testament in the light of the context to find out the \\"reality\\". The author is thus not one of those \\"minimalists\\" who reject the contents of the first part of the Ancient Testament due to lack of archeological evidence, even up to the existence of David and Solomon. On the contrary the author's arguments that much of the Ancient Testament religion is derived from Egyptian religion support the controversial idea that an Exodus out of Egypt did happen. This fits with the author's other book on the subject (The Bible Myth: the African origins of the Jewish people), where he argues that \\"the Israelites emerged suddenly in fourteen-century B. C. Egypt as followers of the religious monotheism of Pharaoh Akhenaten, and they left Egypt in the violent aftermath of the counterrevolution.\\"<br />Although the book contains no notes, it ends with a short commented bibliography containing some scholarly works. In short, this book is enjoyable to read, but unfortunately too popular to be used as a reference.	2004-03-17
US	53006923	R31GZUJCSH5NYV	0964760932	5723773	The Pink Swastika: Homosexuality in the Nazi Party	Books	1	81	135	N	N	Changed my mind : book is not reliable at all	When I first read this popular book, I was enthusiastic about it, and gave it originally 5 stars, simply believing the authors's presentation of evidence and their arguments. In the meanwhile, after reading many scholarly books, my views have completely changed, hence this new review and rating.<br />However after reading more, I have to question my original belief that this book was reliable. While the book contains a few (true) facts, e. g. that many SA leaders were homosexuals, many conclusions are not valid. That these SA leaders were homosexuals those not prove that the leadership of the third Reich was positive about homosexuality. The mainstream of the leadership was actually to the contrary against homosexual behavior (and this is BTW probably the reason why SS researcher Otto Rahn was set aside and had to commit suicide.)<br />Similarly, that the esoterist Thule society helped launch the NSDAP does not mean that German National Socialist party was esoterist (\\"occultist\\" as the authors say). Indeed, the only persons in the NS leadership who had been involved with the Thule society were Alfred Rosenberg (who was not even a member of the society, probably because of his Jewish ancestors) and Rudolf Hess. Himmler himself was busy with Germanic roots and therefore ancient Germanic culture (runes, traditions), but that is not occultism either. Martin Bormann was pagan but not occultist. So there are serious misconceptions here. Furthermore the other National-Socialist leaders were convinced Christians (and BTW even Himmler would regularly go to church), and Hitler himself, when he discovered that the Thule Society had tried to manipulate him, turned against these people (the leader of the then already dissolved society, von Sebottendorff, had to flee out of Germany for his life...).<br />I could tell much more, but this is enough to show that the authors, Lively and Scott, don't have their facts right, not to be of their fallacious reasoning, or of unreliable stories by Hitler's enemies (Hitler's, coprophily, that he was having sex with human excrement...)<br />In conclusion, this book is based on a few true facts, but which were selected while most facts pointing in another direction were ignored (due to bad faith, or to incompetency, or fundamentalist narrow-mindedness??), in any case this is not serious work. In addition to this very bad representation of the facts, the argumentation are not valid (do not logically follow), but are fallacious. Now, (March 2004), it is time that I change my rating for this book, from 5 stars down to 1.es by Hitler's enemies (Hitler's, coprophily, that he was having sex with human excrement...)<br />In conclusion, this book is based on a few true facts, but which were selected while most facts pointing in another direction were ignored (due to bad faith, or to incompetency, or fundamentalist narrow-mindedness??), in any case this is not serious work. In addition to this very bad representation of the facts, the argumentation are not valid (do not logically follow), but are fallacious. Now, (March 2004), it is time that I change my rating for this book, from 5 stars down to 1.	2004-03-12
US	53006923	R1F01TA3FRH5PQ	0471528862	133662283	Optical Computing: An Introduction	Books	1	8	8	N	N	Very poorly written and articulated	There are so many mistakes in typing and content, the matter dealt with is so badly explained, unclear and so badly articulated that I believe this book was not reviewed / checked by any editor!<br />Also strangely the book includes 4 chapters on digital logic without any connections whatsoever to optics, but that simply deal with standard arithmetic and wired logic as one finds in electronic books, except that in this case it is very badly presented and explained. If you don't explain anywhere how these things could be optically implemented, why include that electronics subject in a book supposed to deal with optical computing?<br />I unfortunately cannot find anything interesting in this book, neither for beginners nor for advanced readers; interested persons will profit much more of the relevant chapters in Goodman's Introduction to Fourier Optics (2nd ed., 1996), a book that is cogently written and well thought out.<br />For readers who are advanced in this topic, there is the book edited by Yu and Jutamulia, Optical Pattern Recognition, 1998, a book that does show how many complex functions can be optically implemented, each topic being dealt with by an expert and well explained (assuming you master the contents of a book such as Goodman's).	2004-01-14
US	53006923	R1J0M5I0OVSPVL	1860940013	803855308	LECTURES ON QUANTUM THEORY: MATHEMATICAL AND STRUCTURAL FOUNDATIONS	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Illuminating	In this book Prof. Isham exposes the minimum algebra required for quantum physics, from vector spaces to eigenvalues, Hilbert spaces, density matrices, and equations specific to quantum theory (e. g. entanglement, EPR, Bell, etc.) He does not give unnecessary details but many insights that make the concepts used in algebra more tangible, more understandable, explaining the idea being the various mathematical theories he deals with. of . I read this book for the quantum aspect, but it may have profited me more for the math, for the deeper understanding it gave me of those mathematical concepts. In addition, Isham offers many sound philosophical (yet short, clear and to the point) discussions on the concepts involved, on probabilities, truth, measurement problem, many worlds, non-locality, etc. The book is a masterful treatment combining algebra, physics and philosophy. Add to this some exercises with answers, and here is a book that you don't want to miss, if you already have some basic knowledge of mathematics and quantum physics.	2002-07-09
US	53006923	ROCTOIZ1QF56R	1880404133	251353668	Pagan Resurrection Myths and the Resurrection of Jesus: A Christian Perspective (Southern Academic Editions)	Books	5	24	30	N	Y	Tour de force	McKenzie, a retired prof. of religion, tackles here the difficult question of resurrection myths in relation to Christ's resurrection. He analyzes all the literature produced on the subject, and comes to a balanced view. Coming to a conclusion similar to Nash's book on the subject (The Gospels and the Greeks: Did the New Testament borrow from Pagan Thought, which I also recommend), he show that their a major discontinuity between Jesus resurrection account and pagan myths. More than the differences in the stories, the major difference lies in that the pagan stories (Tammuz, Adonis, Aastarte, Attis, Marsyas, Hyacinth, Osiris, Dionysus and Demeter) are ahistorical, truly mythical which cannot be said of the accounts about Jesus. BTW, what the previous reviewer says, that McKenzie considers the myths as historical, is simply false and only shows he even did not have the books in hands. But whereas Nash (whose book is more detailed on the topic of mystery religions and Gnosticism) takes a fundamentalist turn, rejecting the pagan myths as delusion, McKenzie offers a response to the problem of the frequency of resurrection stories. Introducing Jung's theory of archetypes, he brings a rationale for the pagan resurrection myths which can then be seen as a preparation for the Christian gospel - I found this is the most original contribution of the book. Finally McKenzie criticizes modernism and postmodernism, and makes a defense of the bodily resurrection of Jesus that is not as good as the one defended in William L. Craig's  books and debates.	2002-02-01
US	53006923	R259AWHZ0SK69Z	0830816984	807016341	The Creation Hypothesis: Scientific Evidence for an Intelligent Designer	Books	5	36	46	N	Y	Shows that IDT is scientific, but could even be stronger	I will make a few remarks about  the question of the &quot;scientific&quot;status of the Intelligent Design Theory, which is the issue most discussed in the book (which is not about religion, contrary to what some reviewers claim, and of whom I doubt that they ever even had the  book in their hands.) The first chapters of the books deal with the  philosophy of the natural sciences. Among others, the authors review all  the leading philosophers of the natural sciences and show that it is  impossible to define what &quot;science&quot; is (and I would argue that  this is due the current use of the word &quot;science&quot; in the  Anglo-Saxon world, which is an inheritance of positivism.) Also using all  the criteria that have been advanced to demarcate &quot;science&quot; from  &quot;non-science&quot; they show that Intelligent Design Theory (IDT) has  to be considered as science. BTW, also specially interesting is William  Dembski's (a thinker who seems to have a very promising academic career)  essay where he shows that it is possible to empirically detect intelligence  in nature. Dembski's computational model does not consider quantum physics,  but moving to the quantum scale would not change anything to the idea of  his argument, given that there are mathematical computation that would  exhaust the possible numbers of quantum states. <br />The authors are  successful in their argumentation for the scientific status of design. I  have followed the angry books &amp; articles that have since then attacked  design, and I am still awaiting a succesful rebutal (and not a dishonest  strawman attack or name-calling IDT theology or creationism) of their  arguments. The absence of honest and valid rebuttals confirm the success of  their arguments, and this is no wonder since they were in line with the  leading philosophers of Science, such as Larrry Laudan, etc.<br /> However I  have a critic: the authors could have been much stronger in their  argumentation. They have accepted the current use of the word  &quot;science&quot; in the Anglo-saxon world, not seeing that this use  results from the influence of positivism and pragmatism. They could have  been much stronger by refuting this positivist use, and even simply  rejecting it. The word &quot;science&quot; comes from the Latin  &quot;scientia&quot; which means knowledge, and was used to designate  organized, systematized knowledge (that is academic disciplines uncovering  knowledge.) In most European countries, in languages like French, German,  Dutch, (I am a French who works in the Netherlands, and part of my academic  education was in Germany), the word &quot;science&quot;   (&quot;science&quot; also in French, &quot;Wissenschaft&quot; in German and  &quot;wetenschap&quot; in Dutch) is applicable for all academic  disciplines. For example we speak in French (and the same is true with  Dutch and German) of the &quot;sciences religieuses&quot; (religious  sciences&quot;, which include theological disciplines for example) and the  &quot;sciences humaines&quot; (&quot;human sciences&quot;, which include  for example history, psychology, sociologie, etc.) The same used to be true  of the English language before this was changed in English by the  domination of positivism and pragmatism (at the beginning of the 20th  century? ) (the meaning of the word &quot;science&quot;has been kept in a  few words like &quot;omniscience&quot; which still means &quot;knowledge of  everything&quot;). Positivism and pragmatism are now dead, and it would  have been quite easy and powerful to challenge the current Anglo-Saxon  positivist use of the word &quot;science.&quot; And besides, the authors  could have pointed out that most of those who nowadays pass for  &quot;scientists&quot; have been educated to make some computations and  some experiences, but have no training in philosophy so that they know  nothing of the structure and justification of knowledge, many are in some  respects more technicianswho are not so able to really &quot;think&quot;  like a true scientist (dealing with knowledge) should (look at collection  of philosophical absurdities and naivety in the &quot;scientific&quot;  popular books of Dawkins, Davies and Hawking, and even the metaphysical  absurdity of Hawking's use of imaginary time in his famous no-boundary  proposal), and in this way no real &quot;scientists&quot; (capable of truly  dealing with knowledge). And I do not speak as an outsider, but I say this  having myself had such a so-called &quot;scientific&quot; education, and  now that I have been reading much philosophy I realize how much I  missed.<br />I will stop it here and will not discuss the other part of the  book, where IDT is applied succesfully (and so far without valid rebuttal  that I know of) to some specific fields (astrophysics, biochemistry,  natural history and linguistics / anthropology.)	1999-11-22
US	53006923	R3L7QDD2S9GXP5	0939497182	434732756	Fingerprint of God: Recent Scientific Discoveries Reveal the Unmistakable Identity of the Creator	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Sound and rich perspectives on cosmology	(I am reposting this review, because the email address was wrong and it  did not show up on my review page.)<br />Ross, an astrophysicist, deals with  cosmology using the physical, theological and sometimes the philosophical  sciences in a well documented book. The first part of the book deals with  the ancient cosmologies, the Greek and medieval philosophers, and the rise  of astronomy/physics in the 16-17th centuries. Then Ross explains the  consequences of Kant's deism, in particular his view of the universe as  uncreated and infinite. The first part ends with the recent physical  observations at the end of the 19th century (refuting Kant's view); and  special and general relativity, with their theological consequences due to  the singularity (begin of time and space.) Ross does a good job, but is  sometimes weak (e. g. about the modern rejection of theistic arguments: he  never mentions the real problem: the rise of nominalism and  skepticism.)<br />The second part deals with 20th century physical cosmologies  and how all alternatives to the Big Bang had to be empirically rejected and  how much the awesome evidence for the Big Bang accumulated. Here Ross is at  his best. He also points out the atheistic motivations of those who tried  to avoid the Big Bang. Most of this is excellent, he has also good insights  on Quantum physics. However a few passages are unsatisfying, as his simple  dismissal of Tipler's anthropic principles or his arguments against quantum  originations of the universe (my impression is that he lacks philosophical  depth, and this is problematic when he deals with design or quantum  cosmology.) Those interested in apologetics will have to find complements  in the writings of William L. Craig, Chris Isham, etc.<br />The third and last  part deals with theology, I found it excellent. Ross defends a concordist  position, and refutes also both fundamentalism (Young Earth Creationism)  and liberal theology. His chapter on evil has many insights. His  &quot;gospel acccording to the creation&quot; seems however naive, it seems  obvious that there are many humans in many cultures who never come to such  conclusions by simply thinking about nature.<br />I highly recommend this  book. Those who may find it difficult can read Ross' more popular book  Creator and Cosmos, which has less structure and is easier to read. To  those who, on the contrary, want a more advanced book (dealing with physics  and philosophy) I can recommend Craig's Theism, Atheism and Big Bang  Cosmology.	1999-11-21
US	53006923	R3EHLWFYW33XRV	1855065223	151715016	The Reasonableness of Christianity: As Delivered in the Scriptures (Key Texts)	Books	4	28	32	N	Y	Historical defense of Theism during the deist controversy	(I am reposting this review, because the email address was wrong and it did not show up on my review page.)<br />The puritan physician John Locke (1632-1704) is one of the greatest philosophers, and certainly the one who was the most influential on the American civilization. Locke's life and the  context in which he wrote this book are presented in Ewing's introduction,  however without serious philosophical considerations. Ewing still mentions  Locke's willingness to defend Christianity against the intellectual attacks  lead by the deists, and how much opposition Locke's The Reasonableness of  Christianity received, in particular from the revivalist clergyman Jonathan  Edwards, who accused him of atheism. Since Locke's book did not have any  divisions nor chapters, Ewing has numbered the paragraphes and compiled an  outline. <br />Locke first deals with the need for salvation and the content  of the gospel preached by the apostles and Jesus. He then proceeds to a  very lengthy analysis of the gospels (as someone said: &quot;Locke has no  mercy on the patience of his readers.&quot;) Locke defends the Christian  truth with the miracles and the resurrection of Jesus, His indirect  declarations of Messiahship and His fulfilment of the messianic prophecies.  I was surprised to learn much from Locke's sharp analysis of the gospels,  for example why Jesus did not reveal His identity directly during most of  His ministry. Locke then answers some general objections (about the  salvation of the unevangelized, etc.) In the last part of the book Locke  points at some insufficiencies in the general divine revelation in nature  (although Locke believed in the truth of such a revelation) and argues for  the necessity of special revelation. <br />Locke's arguments may have been  convincing in his time. But Locke wrote before the attacks of Hume against  miracles or before the attacks of the liberal theologians based on the  historical-critical method. Locke's argumentation would be incomplete for  modern readers. These would be more helped by modern apologetics books.  However, those interested in an analysis of Jesus' ministry may benefit  from Locke's book, provided they are motivated enough to endure his lengthy  style. Those interested in Locke's philosophy may benefit more from the  edition by I. T. Ramsey (John Locke. The Reasonableness of Christianity.  With a Discourse on Miracles and Part of A Third Letter Concerning  Toleration. Introduced and edited by I. T. Ramsey. Stanford: Stanford  University Press, 1958.) Ramsey has brilliantly introduced and outlined the  book, has abridged the text, and also introduced and edited some of Locke's  arguments about miracles.	1999-11-21
US	53006923	R3NI81354IN7V7	0310209153	411855634	Integrative Theology	Books	5	15	28	N	Y	Excellent but lacks philosophical depth	I am writing another review, as I have continued to develop myself &quot;intellectually&quot; over the years. I think that this book is  still great because of its very good historical overviews, presentations &amp;  evaluation  of many views (incl. liberal, Eastern,  etc.), its strong  Biblical scholarship, its attempts at relating the ideas to modern  situations, etc... However I have come to see  the book's major weakness.  The Biblical topics deal with many philosophical issues, although not  presented in the Bible in  a philosophical way. Systematizing, analyzing  these issues is even more philosophical (Greek), and in this perspective  the  authors are way too simplistic, the treatement of the topics too often  very naively neglects the philosophical perspective that  is necessary for  understanding, solving many questions. I still very much recommend this  book, but I want to say that it is  certainly not sufficient for a real  analysis, understanding and for giving answers that are sound enough. I  think that this  book would be well complemented by St Thomas Aquinas'  Summa Theologica, the deepest and biggest Christian work ever  written.  However, the Summa is an ancient text that itself requires a lot of study,  time and devotion. So alternative  recommendation I can make as a  completement is Wolfhart Pannenberg's 3 volumes Systematic Theology.  Pannenberg is a  German (Lutheran) theologian, (and not liberal in  comparison with many German theologians), and yet the world's leading  theologian. His huge 3 volume systematic theology has a deep philosophical  perspective. Pannenberg's work is clearly more  academic, difficult than  Lewis's present work, yet definetely more accessible than Aquinas' work for  those who are not read  in philosophy.	1999-11-16
US	53006923	R1EMISOMS20YMC	0801021383	397968029	Interlinear Greek-English New Testament	Books	5	74	76	N	N	Larger print	I did not realize that this version has a much larger print than the Hardback edition (1985) of Green's Interlinear Bible. So it is very readable, the font is large and the strong numbers are not a problem any  longer. Also the print of the English words has been improved, as well of  the Greek words. Green's interlinear used to be superior by the original  text it uses (not liberal) and its excellent translation. Now with these  typographical improvements (readability of fonts..., etc.) it seems to be  unbeatable!	1999-11-06
US	53006923	R3UDIOMVNRAMV2	0820422789	835746032	Authentic Metaphysics in an Age of Unreality	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	Best contemporary book on the issue	A marvel in comparison to the many contemporary metaphysics books that are still so influenced by modernism, positivism and postmodernism. The book covers all issues dealt with by positivist books, but also traditional  metaphysical trancendentals (truth, goodness, beauty), linking them to the  ultimate Being. The author is not afraid of political correctness, arguing  that metaphsics is a scientific discipline, and apologetically interacts  with many recent philosophical developments, showing their inadequacy. The  book is thick, exhaustive and with a good academic level. The author seems  to be influenced by Gilson.	1999-11-05
US	53006923	R3BOUT09D6PP48	0670886939	928300055	Hitler's Pope: The Secret History of Pius XII	Books	2	77	98	N	N	Too biased	I don't like this book because I think that it is bad research, and even worse targetting at misleading the masses. BTW I am not Catholic, so I have  no interest or particular reason to defend Pius XII. The argumentation of  the book is poor and the evidence very selective. Cornwell ignored the mass  of evidence that sustained the contrary thesis, and the reasons that led  Pius to use a soft policy for helping the Jews (Hitler reacting with more  persecution when the pope would condemn antisemitism strongly, and Hitler's  becoming full of hate just by hearing the word &quot;Jew&quot;.) For those  who are interested in a much better book on the same topic, I definitely  recommend Pierre Blet's book on Pius XII. (Pius XII and the Second World  War : According to the Archives of the Vatican)	1999-10-27
US	53006923	R2ISN8KT6BWB0J	0939497182	434732756	Fingerprint of God: Recent Scientific Discoveries Reveal the Unmistakable Identity of the Creator	Books	5	55	57	N	N	Sound and rich perspectives on cosmology	Ross, an astrophysicist, deals with cosmology using the physical, theological and sometimes the philosophical sciences in a well documented book.<br />The first part of the book deals with the ancient cosmologies, the  Greek and medieval philosophers, and the rise of astronomy/physics in the  16-17th centuries. Then Ross explains the consequences of Kant's deism, in  particular his view of the universe as uncreated and infinite. The first  part ends with the recent physical observations at the end of the 19th  century (refuting  Kant's view); and special and general relativity, with  their theological consequences due to the singularity (begin of time and  space.) Ross does a good job, but is sometimes weak (e. g. about the modern  rejection of theistic arguments: he never mentions the real problem: the  rise of nominalism and skepticism.)<br />The second part deals with 20th  century physical cosmologies and how all alternatives to the Big Bang had  to be empirically rejected and how much the awesome evidence for the Big  Bang accumulated. Here Ross is at his best. He also points out the  atheistic motivations of those who tried to avoid the Big Bang. Most of  this is excellent, he has also good insights on Quantum physics. However a  few passages are unsatisfying, as his simple dismissal of Tipler's  anthropic principles or his arguments against quantum originations of the  universe (my impression is that he lacks philosophical depth, and this is  problematic when he deals with design or quantum cosmology.) Those  interested in apologetics will have to find complements in the writings of  William L. Craig, Chris Isham, etc.<br />The third and last part deals with  theology, I found it excellent. Ross defends a concordist position, and  refutes also both fundamentalism (Young Earth Creationism) and liberal  theology.  His chapter on evil has many insights. His &quot;gospel  acccording to the creation&quot; seems however naive, it seems obvious that  there are manyhumans in many cultures who never come to such conclusions  by simply thinking about nature.<br />I highly recommend this book. Those who  may find it difficult can read Ross' more popular book Creator and Cosmos,  which has less structure and is easier to read. To those who, on the  contrary, want a more advanced book (dealing with physics and philosophy) I  can recommend Craig's Theism, Atheism and Big Bang Cosmology.	1999-09-28
US	53006923	R2YKG7SF5QG6EO	0688118658	611909944	Who's Afraid of Schrodinger's Cat?: All The New Science Ideas You Need To Keep Up With The New Thinking	Books	2	15	23	N	N	Misleading	I do not often read very popular books but came accross that one. It succeeds in explaining many things easily, however it is very inaccurate and unreliable, there is an  average of one fatal, major mistake per page, both concerning the  interpretation, or the history of the experimental sciences, etc. The book  has also very strong New Age bias in its use of modern physics, etc. It may  be recommandable for New Agers, but for other readers I would rather  recommend searching another book, I assume there are some reliable  introductory books on the market.    If on one hand as I was saddened by all  the mistakes in the book, on the other hand I found some funny (e. g. that  the medieval scientists believed that the planets and stars were alive or  inhabited by gods, etc.)	1999-08-10
US	53006923	R1IOSE6W7ANLES	0310220173	879327916	Three Views on Creation and Evolution (Counterpoints)	Books	5	14	21	N	N	Great as introduction/overview/reflection	This book contains three presentations by their proponents of the three main Christian views on origin. Each presentation is followed by an assessment by four commentators (each time the four same). The book does  not deal so much with the natural sciences, but rather with the theological  and philophical sciences. Nothing new nor difficult, but interesting to  reveal the paradigma behind the views, grossly speaking: one specific  interpretation of Genesis for Young Earth Creationism, Christian theism for  Old Earth creationism, and deism (!) for &quot;Theistic&quot; Evolution,  the latter being the most revealing: Van Till does not want to allow for  God to intervene in the development of nature, but seems commited to the  idea that God winded everything beforehand so as to get the good results,  &quot;prior&quot; to t=0: this is remniscent of the clock-world of the  deists where God did not have to intervene anymore once he had started the  clock. This will be an excellent book for those who want an introduction or  overview of the main views among Christians, as well as a reflection.	1999-08-05
US	53006923	R122MFL62Y8C9C	0935269037	714753332	Scholastic Challenges: To Some Mediaeval and Modern Ideas	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Excellent work, esp. on beauty	This is a collection of high levels essays of very great quality. Most deal with beauty and art, Kovach's speciality. This is very sound thought, a good antidote against the subjectivism that dominates esthetics nowadays.  Also there is an excellent essay on Maritain's philosophy of beauty in  relation to Aquinas.	1999-07-29
US	53006923	R2JUIUNFP3MAY6	3829017413	102123553	Gothic: Architecture, Sculpture, Painting	Books	5	34	38	N	N	Awesome book for little money	I ordered this book for 20 pounds and what I received was much beyond my expections: a huge book (27x32x5 cm) with many high gorgious pictures on high quality paper, and many articles written by specialists (mostly  Germans). It focuses mainly on architecture, but has also some sections on  sculpture, painting, miniatures, stained glass, jewelry, etc. This may be a  good book for making a present to someone, of having them fall in love with  the gothic style?	1999-07-28
US	53006923	RR4R5XSNSGDYC	1565076575	291807680	Darwin's Leap of Faith: Exposing the False Religion of Evolution	Books	2	17	23	N	Y	Good intent, but poor scholarship	This book is not academic but quite popular, this may be why it consists for a great part of cutting and pasting citations. This is acceptable in the first part of the book, where they show much evidence for persecution  in the American society of those who do not believe in  &quot;evolution&quot;. They succeed here also in showing the tenets and  cultural impacts of the religion of evolution, (although I would rather  recommend Johnson's Reason in the Balance.) The trouble begins with the  part on the empirical evidence for evolution, which is not impressive (I  would rather recommend Denton's Evolution, or Johnson's  Darwin.) And the  authors miss the major argument (failing to show the incompatibility of  evolution with some of the most basic truths such as consciousness,  morality, free will, beauty, rationality, as O'Hear does in his Beyond  Evolution.) And the parts on the Big Bang or on geology (&quot;flood  geology&quot;) are catastrophic. I doubt the authors understand much about  this issues. I would rather recommend other books (in the direction of  Intelligent Design), but this present book may satisfy Young Earth  Creationists. <br />I value much the apologetic efforts and courage of the  authors, as their site and TV show, but I hope they will become more  critical of Young Earth Creationism, it does more evil to Christianity by  discreting it, in my opinion.	1999-07-22
US	53006923	R1G2LTHP9QBWTX	0764221981	659539617	Chosen but Free	Books	5	31	55	N	N	handles a difficult topic very well	Philosopher and theologian Norman Geisler is president of Southern Evangelical Seminary.His present book is written with a popular style and deals with the issue of God's attributes and human free will. He shows that  hypercalvinism (&quot;TULIP&quot;) and extreme armenianism (Neotheism,  molinism) are internally inconsistent views and are also unbiblical. He  mostly uses theological (Biblical) arguments but also with a few  philosophical arguments, and some arguments from church history (in the  appendices). Geisler defends the traditional Christian view  that God is  omniscient and in charge and that humans have a free will). This is also  the view shared by modern calvinists (like Geisler) and moderate arminians.  Geisler criticizes however the arminian view that salvation can be lost.  The appendices cover half of the book, they contain a lot of very valuable  information.<br />I found Geisler quite convincing. I personally always found  hypercalvinism inconsistent: if salvation is question of God's pleasure  (predestination) and God is all-good, all powerful and all-knowing then why  does he save everyone instead of sending some to hell? I found Geisler  quite insightful here in seeing that hypercalvinism will degenerate in  universalism. Geisler refutes here the voluntarism of John Piper and  defends the traditional Christian view (essentialism.) Among others, I also  found quite interesting is the difference of the views between the young  and the late Augustine.<br />What may be lacking in this book are some  consideration about the issue of the unevangelized. Many humans throughout  history have not known the Christian gospel to be true, or even worse never  had an opportunity to hear about this gospel: this is an argument used by  extreme calvinists and neotheists. Geisler could have anwered this by  making a difference between, on one hand, the evangelized whose  salvation/condemnation  is decided during their life on earth on the basis  of their reactionto knowing the truth about the gospel and on the other  hand the unevangelized whose salvation/condemnation will be decided at the  last judgement on the basis of their heart/works, their reaction to  whatever they received (conscience, etc.) A problem in the book is that the  citations of church fathers (e. g. St Thomas) in the appendices sometimes  do not refer to verses in original texts but to pages in some modern  editions.<br />This book will be very illuminating and helpful for many  Christians. It will be mostly of interest for those Christians who are part  of the calvinist or evangelical traditions, but I can imagine that it could  also be very interesting for others, for example Catholic Christians  interested in the issue or in Biblical arguments against the molinism  (middle-knowledge instead of omniscience).<br />Concerning the issue of God's  attributes and human freedom, this book does not address the molinist  arguments recently given by William Craig, one of the foremost Christian  thinkers. Geisler may not have dealt with this possibly because his present  book deals primarily with the Bible. A few philosophical arguments against  molinism can be found in Geisler's Creating God in the Image of man, and  some more profound ones in Goris' Free Creatures of an Eternal God (with a  refutation of Craig's arguments) and especially in Garrigou-Lagrange's  monumental work God: His Existence and His Nature, volume 2.	1999-07-10
US	53006923	RZOH0951AEOER	0415156254	172551062	Ethics: A Contemporary Introduction (Routledge Contemporary Introductions to Philosophy)	Books	5	12	20	N	N	Very clear, appealing and relevant	Gensler, prof . of philo. at John Carrol U., has written here a book that is both very clear, formal and yet appealing as each chapter begins with the thoughts of the same fictional character and then deals with them.  Gensler refers also to some online exercises he has put on his site. What  may be a limitation with the book is that it is mostly limited to the  question &quot;how do we know what to do?&quot; (which is extensively  covered by a survey all the theories). This is how I understand why Gensler  rejected supernaturalism (divine command). If he had dealt with the reality  of right and wrong, then he would probably have admitted that without a  purposeful mind beyond the cosmos there would be no right/wrong, that it  would not matter if all humans would disappear in awful sufferings, or  whatever. In his synthesis (final) chapter, Gensler seems to advocate the  golden rule, but the reader may be given the impression he advocates a kind  of situation ethics , because of another  issue that was again not really  dealt with (conflict between duties, etc.).<br />For a more systematic (but  dryer and more difficult) work, I would recommend Norman Geisler's  Introduction to philosophy or his Ethics. Anyway I found Gensler's book  excellent. A more fun and less formal intro. is Steve Wilkens' Beyond  Bumper Sticker Ethics.	1999-06-29
US	53006923	R127HUQVB8ATNH	0195106113	981778044	Introduction to the Philosophy of Science: Cutting Nature at Its Seams	Books	3	34	49	N	N	modern apologetics for realism, not general intro.	Klee is a prof. of philosophy at Ithaca College. He states somewhere near the end of the book that his perspective is that of holist realism.<br />Throughout this book he deals with the debate between realism  and anti-realism,  giving answers (a real apologetics) against anti-realist  arguments (in particular against philosophers of nature such as Kuhn, Van  Fraassen, Laudan.., and against postmoderns and feminists) In the  conclusion of the book the author ends by stating his optistism for natural  science which he by far sees as the highest achievement and hope.<br />I find  this book valuable when taken as a book about the debate between  realism/antirealism, or as a defense of realism. But I do not find it  valuable as a introduction to the philosophy of &quot;science&quot;. The  author does not define what he means by &quot;science&quot; (this word used  to mean something like &quot;organized knowledge&quot; and used to include  theology, history, philosophy - it is only since about a century or more  that the influence of positivism/kantianism in the anglo-Saxon world has  reduced it to the modeling of natural or social patterns). Besides, he  starts right away with positivism, , skipping thousands of years of science  and philosophical debate (although he sometimes mentions some less recent  authors), and continues with the 20th century debate about realism, letting  many current issues aside.<br />I have nothing against the fact that the  author defends realism so much, but then I expect him to be honest and  clear. I think this book should have been called something like &quot;An  Introduction to the Philosophical Debate about the Objectivity of the  Natural and Social Sciences: a Realist Perspective.&quot;<br />BTW, I  sometimes had the impression the author is committed to materialism or even  to scientism, but I may be wrong about this.	1999-06-29
US	53006923	RT74A79S5WT7D	1901157709	469326349	Darkness Visible: A Christian Appraisal of Free Masonry	Books	5	38	49	N	N	Still the best	I find this book excellent. For Christians, it may  still be the must book about freemasonery. I heartely also recommend Hannah's other books (Christian by Degrees, Why shoudn't I be a Freemason). BTW Hannah admitted  10 years after writing this book that he had been present at masonic rites,  but he then probably backed up.     One dealing with certain issues, one has unfortunately to be cautious. Hence, Due to reasons I prefer not to mentionout of fear and prudence, I had there the possibility of becoming acquainted with  these  hidden things. So I can confirm that what the author, Hannah, writes  about Freemasonery is accurate. It is possible to know the facts without  being freemason, despite of all the measures of secrecy.	1999-06-29
US	53006923	R3KXHXUV4IBLHA	0802844502	917704141	God, Reason and Theistic Proofs (Reason and Religion)	Books	5	3	8	N	Y	very good introduction	This is a very good introduction to the issue (though not perfect in my opinion). It not only deals with many proofs but has also some metadiscussions about the idea of theistic proofs and their alternatives.	1999-06-25
US	53006923	R1WX8BB290DI39	0830815279	853077792	Beyond Bumper Sticker Ethics: An Introduction to Theories of Right & Wrong	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Very clear and relevant	This introduction to ethics is made very relevant by relating to concrete situation, stories, etc. and is also very rigourous in its analyses and evaluation. Wilkens has succeeded in writing a serious book that is also great fun to read!!!	1999-06-24
US	53006923	RVESARSHKDYKP	0884490165	309280274	The New Cults	Books	4	14	25	N	Y	Useful. Esp. part on Witness Lee	This book, written by a panel of cult researchers, covers about 10 new cults which are in line with Eastern thought. The book is old. The part on Witness Lee's dangerous cult, the &quot;Local Church&quot; is valuable  because this cult sues in court all publishers writing against it and it is  has become difficult to find written material about this cult, most  information can only be found at ltm.org. The &quot;Local Church&quot; is  active in the city where I live, I was even helping them in the beginning  set up their group. It took me time to realize that it was a cult and that  it was also not Christian, (rather an Eastern reinterpretation of the  Bible,  as in New Age groups). Ltm.org had been a great help, but it is  nice to find this book (second hand) with a part  on this cult, really  great.	1999-06-04
US	53006923	R3K1IDLPT3JRPP	0801011493	146961273	When Cultists Ask: A Popular Handbook on Cultic Misinterpretations	Books	3	8	21	N	Y	Correction to my previous review - excuses to Rhodes	I am writing after one of the author, Ron Rhodes, wrote me about my previous review. I had assumed he was responsible for the definition of cultism included in the book, and for the inclusion of Catholicism. Rhodes  explained that it was Geisler who entirely worked out the definition of  what a cult is and entirely insisted for the inclusion of Catholic  interpretations in the book.<br />Rhodes points out that they (the authors)  still) wrote on p. 18 that catholicism is not a cult, which I appreciate.  But I still do not understand why then include catholic interpretations in  such a book?<br />All my excuses to Ron Rhodes and for saying of him that I  understood him to be rather &quot;fanatical&quot;. I must have been angry  to see Catholics included in this book on cultists, hence the lack of  thoughtfulness in my previous review. Well I am disappointed by what  Geisler has done in this book. Of all his books, it clearly remains the one  I like the least.	1999-04-24
US	53006923	R1M115EL4NOKX1	0891075216	250503712	Demon Possession and the Christian: A New Perspective	Books	5	15	21	N	N	Excellent study	This may be the best book on this topic. With all the involvement in occult experiences that resulted from the Pentecostal/charismatic &quot;renewal&quot;, there is now so much evidence about Christian  demonization that the old a priori idea according to which &quot;Christians  cannot be demonized&quot; should be hold by anyone serious and honest.  Dickason covers a lot of studies and gives a comprehensive view.<br />What  lacks are philosophical considerations about the functionning of  demonization in the soul, as opposed to the epistemological understanding  of the mystical experience (Christian philosopher Maritain built a  brilliant epistemology that encompassed mystical experience). Also a  distinction should be drawn between the initiation of occult experiences  (where one seeks the experience by making his mind and body control open to  a spirit, at least at the first time) and the mystic experience (where the  experience is not sought the first time, or sought without offering one's  mind,etc.)<br />Responsible Christians who are in touch with the charismatic  movement may not want themselves or their friends to be exposed to  demonization, they will then do well to read this book and other ones such  as George Birch's The Deliverance Ministry (Cases of deliverances of  spirits of tongues and others caught during charismatic experiences) or the  books by Kurt Koch (Occult Bondage, etc.),  or Felicitas Goodman's  &quot;How about Demons? Possession..&quot; (Goodman is not Christian, but  possibly the world's most eminent academic specialist on demon possession  and she classifies pentecostal/charismatic experiences in her branch.)	1999-03-22
US	53006923	R1O708WVV5MTCV	0801021510	607298002	Baker Encyclopedia of Christian Apologetics (Baker Reference Library)	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Culmination of Anglosaxon Christian Thought	Culmination of Anglosaxon Christian Thought<br />This book contains very clear and sound expositions and evalutations of all kinds of fundamental topics that are most vital for Christianity. The book is far from reaching  the size of the 5 volumes of the Catholic apologetics dictionary produced  by the French thomistic apologetics in the twenties, but it provides a  coherent, up-to-date (Derrida...) system, a real rock needed by any serious  Christian.<br />Geisler is committed to defending Christianity and all its  vital elements, not a special group (e. g. protestants), so this is a must  book for Christians from all denominations. Yet with its honest, balanced,  yet negatively critical articles on the neocalvinist (presuppositionalist)  fundamentalists (Dooyeweerd, Van Til, Schaeffer, Frame), it is more  directed towards the evangelical world which has been badly influenced by  neocalvinism. As I find neocalvinism (presup.) utterly absurd, I find such  articles a waste of space, but I guess this may be needed due to the  influence of neocalvinism in the U.S., and will be very beneficial for  those influenced by these doctrines. This is yet somewhat of a pity given  that the encyclopedia does not contain all one could wish (e. g. arguments  for the existence of the soul or a complete Christian view encompassing all  areas). A few articles are not so well handled such as the one on the  &quot;heathen&quot; (unevangelized) where the problems are not addressed  (contradiction with the justice of God, which has no favoritism, making the  problem of evil intractable) and are the less given an answer (Geisler  could have discussed the answer of soft-inclusivism, that is God  attributing His grace or not at the last judgement on the basis of whatever  light the unevangelized received, such as their moral conscience, etc.) but  instead the views of the reformers are discussed, which is of no  apologetics use. Also I did not like Geisler citing a few times Kenny's  terribly bad book on the five ways (where &quot;motus&quot; is interpreted  as motion instead of change, etc.), whereas there are much better books on  this. This is the first time that I see Geisler citing Kenny. God be thank  he  did not follow Kenny, yet could have given more space to the five ways,  I had the impression he was somewhat less confident, but this is very  subjective.<br />Well besides these minor details, this is really one of the  best books I ever bought, I really recommend it to all Christians or those  interested in Christianity. It is a treasure, culmination of Anglosaxon  Christian thought at the end of the 2nd millenium, an excellent sign for  the next millenium. I pray that this book will be extremely influential.	1999-03-19
US	53006923	R1XP7TLLHRAY30	0891077642	352388591	Reasonable Faith: Christian Truth and Apologetics	Books	5	57	70	N	Y	Excellent for Christians, esp. historical considerations	The strengths of this book are:  1. its accessibility (it is easy to follow, and presented in a direct, style, Craig addresses the listener); 2. the historical approach for each topics (This is missing in most  apologetics books. One can notice in particular how Craig masters the deist  controversy , he did research on it); 3. its dealing with  &quot;existential&quot; aspect of apologetics (&quot;the human  predicament&quot;).<br />The shortcomings are: 1. the absence of a global  framework, reasoning for integrating the diverse arguments: one still need  to study Geisler's Christian Apologetics for such an integration; 2.  Craig's view of Christianity as basically true, his circular reasoning  (based on the Bible) about the Holy Spirit, and his uncritical endorsment  of Plantinga's nonsensical epistemology (see James Sennett's book  (&quot;Modality...&quot;): this is the major shortcoming of the book, a big  mistake. 3. The book is definitely intended to Christians (Craig tells how  to convert non-Christians...), I would not lend to a non-Christian.  Strangely, Craig addresses at the end of the album non-Christian listeners,  asking them to make a commitment for Christ. But this may be a good thing  for nominal Christians.  4. Craig's concentration on the Kalam argument:  fine, this argument is excellent for those of us with a background in  natural sciences, yet it does not give the theistic God (e. g. it could  give several gods), just as the design argument. One really need to use  Aquinas' 3rd way to get the full-blown theistic God (the latest exposition  of it is in Yandell's &quot;Philosophy of Religion&quot;, 1999, but this is  a difficult read. An easier one can be found in Geisler's Christian  Apologetics). The third way is based on abstract concepts (necessity, etc.)  and is probably not fitting in  a popular books, so I will not blame Craig  for not using it here.	1999-02-15
US	53006923	R7V3615LPPRZ6	1556617240	684220744	The Death of Truth: What's Wrong With Multiculturalism, the Rejection of Reason and the New Postmodern Diversity	Books	4	16	20	N	N	Very useful but philosophically deficient	This book reads very easily, is clear and is helpful for practically recognizing and refuting postmodernism in many fields (health care, literature, education, history, psychotherapy, law, natural science and  religion.) It will probably be very valuable for many as it is directly  applicable in many situations. There was certainly much need for such a  book, great that it has come! (Another practical and helpful book is  Beckwith's recent &quot;Relativism: Feet firmly planted in Mid-Air&quot;,  1998; in the same vein, there is also Watkins' &quot;the New  Absolutes&quot;, 1996.)<br />Unfortunately, this book (the Death of Truth) is  philosophically wholly inadequate, mainly in the essays of Jim Leffel, who  is confused about epistemology (adopting a fundamentalist view that cannot  give any answer to postmodernism), about the definition of  &quot;theism&quot; (which he identifies with neocalvinism) and  &quot;modernism&quot; (which he strangely identifies for much of it with  traditional Christianity), etc. For a historical and philosophical  exposition of postmodernism, with a refutation, I would rather recommend  Floyd Centore's &quot;Being and Becoming: a Critique of Postmodernism&quot;  (1991): it remains in my opinion the best philosphical analysis of  postmodernism and its roots, and gives the real antidote! Many interesting  insights can also be found in Ciapolo's &quot;Postmodernism and Christian  Philosophy&quot; (1997). And for a way of defending Christianity which is  postmodern-proof, the unbeatable book remains Geisler's &quot;Christian  Apologetics&quot; (1976). All these books (Centore, Ciapolo, Geisler) are  however at another level (academic, more difficult) than McCallum's or  Beckwith's, which are popular works aimed at the very broad readership.	1999-01-16
US	53006923	R1OY8KHEVOKL8K	0801010500	918276133	Politically Correct Death: Answering the Arguments for Abortion Rights	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Best book about abortion?	This is the most reasoned book I know on the issue of abortion and it is natural sciences, ethics, some cases of law and even Biblical theology, etc. All of this with a perfect, flawless logic. Impressive, congratulations for this achievement!	1999-01-10
US	53006923	R1EHUQVP0E1QQ4	0849902517	607729025	Revelation 1-5 (Word Biblical Commentary 52a)	Books	3	29	41	N	Y	Very scholarly but deist assumptions	On the one hand this book is scholarly and thus a great pleasure to read,  with many Greek and Hebrew words without any of these horrible  transliterations. On the other hand, Aune uses the ideas of the German  deist school, which lead to reject the textual and historical (Church  Fathers, etc.) evidence for the date, composition, authorship of New  Testament docuemnts such as the book of Revelation. A defense of the  Christian views (date, composition, author, etc.) on Revelation, which  refutes Aune's old liberal arguments, can be found for example in &quot;An  Introduction to the New Testament&quot; by D. A. Carson, Douglas Moo and  Leon Morris, which book I recommend.<br />Liberal scholars will certainly  greatly benefit from Aune's volumes on Revelation (I only have volumes 52A  and 52B, but I assume the next volumes will be similar). To those looking  for a Christian commentary on Revelation, I would rather not recommend  Aune's books.	1998-10-14
