US	53005856	R2ATPAYF7P1OKC	0940352133	344653890	How to Adopt Internationally: A Guide for Agency-Directed and Independent Adoptions (2000-2002 Edition)	Books	2	13	14	N	N	Outdated - But Useful for the Basics	Even though this book is marketed as the \\"2001-2002 Edition,\\" it is already woefully outdated with regard to the adoption laws and requirements of various countries. For instance, if I had taken the Erichson's information as law, I would not be sailing through the process to adopt a beautiful child from Kazakhstan right now. The Erichson's claim that Kazakhstan does not allow foreign adoptions, when indeed it has since 1999. In addition, there is misinformation regarding the adoption process for China, and these are just the two countries I know about. It is my advice to completely skip the \\"Compendium\\" section of this book (where the authors outline adoption laws and procedures for over 65 countries) - there is simply no way a print publication can keep up with the ever-changing country guidelines, INS procedures and politics that keep the international adoption process in a constant state of flux. Your best bet for up-to-the-minute information on international adoption procedures is the internet (particularly the US State Department's International Adoption page). If you place your confidence in the Erichson's book,... you could be sorely disappointed or miss out on an excellent opportunity.<br />However, Erichson's info on preparing for the home study is quiet good. It also provides a helpful chapter on adoption medicine and health issues. The book also contains sample INS forms, although these are easily downloaded directly from the INS's website with complete instructions on how to fill them out. \\"How to Adopt Internationally\\" is a good reference to look at BEFORE you actually begin the adoption process - it's a good way to get an idea of what to expect (just don't believe everything you see in the Compendium!). Once you get going, it is vitally important that you have the most up-to-date info available to safeguard yourself from setbacks and disappointment. Your adoption agency and home study social workers will help you do the right thing at the right time, and don't forget to contact families who have recently completed adoptions in the country you are interested in to get a first-hand account of what it's REALLY like (the web is great for this!). This book doesn't provide any info that you can't find easily on the internet - I'd skip it in favor of a good web search specific to the country you intend to adopt from.	2002-02-11
US	53005856	RRTCMB6QHZFLP	0805045791	845146824	The International Adoption Handbook: How to Make Foreign Adoption Work for You	Books	2	14	15	N	N	Outdated - But Useful for the Basics	I took this book out of the library, and boy was I glad I didn't buy it before getting a good look at it! The information is woefully outdated (ie: Alperson claims that filing the all-important INS I-600A form costs only $168 - it now costs $405! She doesn't even acknowledge that all the important INS forms are now easily downloaded off the IRS website with concise instructions - a lifesaver!). While her basic information is good, there is nothing here that you can't find online. Our exhaustive pre-adoption research found that the most reliable and up-to-date info is on the web - ever-changing country guidelines, INS procedures and politics place the international adoption process in a constant state of flux. There is no way a print publication can possibly keep up with the changes. Since there is such an emotional toll with adoption, I feel that it is best to seek out only the most current info - that way you won't get your hopes up based on outdated material. Also, by using the web, you can read the stories of individual families and contact them directly to learn first-hand of their adoption experiences. I really learned how to negotiate the process from families who had recently completed adoptions in the country we had selected. They gave me the real inside information, and even helped us to choose the agency that was right for us. If I had gone on Alperson's circa 1997 advice, I would have taken many wrong turns.<br />While Alperson's book contains some good, solid info on the aspects of international adoption that are constants - save yourself the money and avoid being confused by old data by checking out the web. If you are intent on having a \\"hard copy\\" of adoption information, be aware that this book contains serious misinformation regarding country regulations and INS procedures that may set you back.	2002-02-11
US	53005856	R1JPXNEQT38MC4	1559210915	739922346	The Mother	Books	4	67	68	N	N	ASubtle Look into Chinese Peasant Life at the Dawn of an Era	Pearl Buck's books of the 1930s and 1940s were among the first to introduce Americans to the Chinese way of life.  In \\"The Mother,\\" Ms. Buck takes an in-depth look into the life of a peasant woman who lives in a poor hamlet at the dawn of the communist era - when ancient and modern Chinese ideals collided.  Her life is fraught with hardship, and her views are tainted by centuries-old patriarchal tradition.  Her few joys are simple - a love of food and the longing for male grandchildren sustain her through days of drudgery.  Her life is touched by the consequences of both \\"old\\" and \\"new\\" Chinese culture in ways I will not reveal here, as I don't want to ruin the story.<br />While the book's prose has, on occasion, been criticized for its archaic style, Buck merely presents her story in language that mirrors the peasant colloquial of the day.  This use of language and Buck's wonderful descriptive abilities transport the reader to the nameless mother's home, and open a window into the thought processes that governed her daily travails and simple pleasures.  Buck's gift for storytelling is once again in evidence in \\"The Mother,\\" and her elegant writing style evokes vivid imagery.  All of the book's characters remain nameless throughout the novel - an effective convention used by the author to emphasize the fact that this story could be applied to any of millions of \\"faceless\\" Chinese peasant families.  It also references the way peasant women may have felt about themselves - faceless servants at the will of their husbands, families, and circumstance.  There is a subtle political message within the story as well - it isn't difficult to discern how Ms. Buck felt about Communists and the role of the peasant class in Chinese society.<br />\\"The Mother\\" is an excellent story - this quick read will leave a lasting impression on you.	2002-02-05
US	53005856	RGA4GFN2G3XPQ	0312195621	276400422	Victoria's Daughters	Books	4	19	19	N	N	A Good Starting Point for Information on Victoria's Family	Jerrold M. Packard's multi-biography of Queen Victoria's five daughters is an absolute delight.  His well researched portrayals of eldest daughter Vicky (an intellectual who became Empress of Germany and mother of Kaiser Wilhelm); tragic Alice; shy Helena; outgoing Louise and Mama's girl Beatrice (who was much-abused by her demanding mother) are fascinating.  This elite sisterhood shared many triumphs and tragedies, and endured their royal mother's notorious brand of parenting with various degrees of success.<br />Packard employs a wonderfully readable writing style to present his research.  He does a good job of providing a considerable amount of detail for each daughter, without becoming cumbersome.  Think of \\"Victoria's Daughters\\" as \\"Victorian biographical history lite.\\"  He provides a decent overview without delving too much into the depths of politics or historical reference.  The book focuses almost solely on the lives of the daughters and their interaction with their domineering mother, and does so very entertainingly.   Packard weaves together each daughter's individual history to create a striking \\"group portrait\\" of Victoria's royal family.  Queen Victoria's daughters were all accomplished in some area in their own right - the fact that they all survived their mother's barrage of verbal and psychological abuse certainly speaks for their collective character.  <br />Packard's overview of the royal sisters was so intriguing that I was motivated to seek out more in-depth individual biographies (the best of which was \\"An Uncommon Woman,\\" by Hannah Pakula, about Vicky).  \\"Victoria's Daughters\\" is an immensely enjoyable read - this fascinating true account of five remarkable women will whet your appetite for more information about the Victorian era and this remarkable family.	2002-02-05
US	53005856	RQBZ0F1R73JV4	1559210915	739922346	The Mother	Books	4	5	5	N	N	ASubtle Look into Chinese Peasant Life at the Dawn of an Era	Pearl Buck's books of the 1930s and 1940s were among the first to introduce Americans to the Chinese way of life.  In \\"The Mother,\\" Ms. Buck takes an in-depth look into the life of a peasant woman who lives in a poor hamlet at the dawn of the communist era - when ancient and modern Chinese ideals collided.  Her life is fraught with hardship, and her views are tainted by centuries-old patriarchal tradition.  Her few joys are simple - a love of food and the longing for male grandchildren sustain her through days of drudgery.  Her life is touched by the consequences of both \\"old\\" and \\"new\\" Chinese culture in ways I will not reveal here, as I don't want to ruin the story.<br />While the book's prose has, on occasion, been criticized for its archaic style, Buck merely presents her story in language that mirrors the peasant colloquial of the day.  This use of language and Buck's wonderful descriptive abilities transport the reader to the nameless mother's home, and open a window into the thought processes that governed her daily travails and simple pleasures.  Buck's gift for storytelling is once again in evidence in \\"The Mother,\\" and her elegant writing style evokes vivid imagery.  All of the book's characters remain nameless throughout the novel - an effective convention used by the author to emphasize the fact that this story could be applied to any of millions of \\"faceless\\" Chinese peasant families.  It also references the way peasant women may have felt about themselves - faceless servants at the will of their husbands, families, and circumstance.  There is a subtle political message within the story as well - it isn't difficult to discern how Ms. Buck felt about Communists and the role of the peasant class in Chinese society.<br />\\"The Mother\\" is an excellent story - this quick read will leave a lasting impression on you.	2002-02-05
US	53005856	RTMMBW70RK917	0140291903	160186759	Manhattan Memoir: American Girl; Manhattan, When I Was Young; Speaking with Strangers	Books	4	11	12	N	Y	Delightful, Engaging and Unflinchingly Honest	Mary Cantwell bares her triumphs and joys as well as her shortcomings and insecurities in this collection of three memoirs that span her childhood, early adulthood, and middle- to late-adulthood respectively.   Cantwell lead a wonderful, if unremarkable, childhood in an enviably Rockwell-esque seaside town - her depiction of her life through high-school is a real joy to read.  Upon graduation from college, Cantwell hits the \\"Big City\\" appears to have forgotten some of the lessons learned in her idyllic childhood, however, she still manages to snag a plumb job with Mademoiselle Magazine and occasionally interacts with literary legends with her ambitious young husband.  In her later life she is given interesting writing assignments and carves out a life for herself in Lower Manhattan, however, I found it discouraging that she wallows in the collapse of her marriage (which never appeared to be very strong), often to the detriment of her two daughters. I kept wondering how a woman with such a strong background could have allowed herself to sink to the depths Cantwell periodically allowed herself to hit.  Regardless, she is not ashamed to remember less-than-glamorous moments in her life (which also include being jeered by fellow classmates as an elementary school student and suffering from paralyzing fits of self-doubt as a young career woman) - these are the events that have made her what she is.   <br />It must have been incredibly therapeutic for Cantwell to write these memoirs.  All three books can be seen as a view of the author's life from within her own head.   Her message is simple:  accept me for what I am.  \\"Manhattan Memoir,\\" in addition to being the story of Mary Cantwell's life, it also about trying to be true to oneself when one isn't always sure what that means.  By writing her story, Cantwell examines her life and tries to learn from her experiences - and it can make the reader start to think  about his/her own life as well.   <br />While Cantwell's lifeis not particularly fascinating or different in itself, her writing style and manner of portraying her experiences are magical and riveting.  She describes the joyous and painful events of her life in an easy, engaging manner - it is as if she is talking about the past with old friends.  She manages to make the mundane fascinating.  She also has a real gift for engaging the reader.  I wasn't sure if I liked her writing style at first - Cantwell writes almost as one speaks - but within pages of beginning the book I became used to her rambling style and truly enjoyed it.<br />This book provides an added plus for those from or familiar with Rhode Island and/or New York City.  It was fun for me to recognize the addresses of Cantwell's Manhattan apartments and know that the places she frequented, I often go to today.	2002-02-05
US	53005856	RSC5UOO46BAS9	0802117023	92284093	Mary Shelley	Books	2	22	29	N	Y	A Dry Account of a Fascinating Life	I have a love/hate relationship with Miranda Seymour's rambling account of the fascinating life of 19th century gothic novelist Mary Shelley.  While the subject matter is truly intriguing, Seymour fails to do justice by the long-suffering Mrs. Shelley.<br />The daughter of a well-known feminist who died in childbirth and a philosopher father, Mary Shelley was destined for tragic greatness. She led a tumultuous life on the edge by 19th century standards - running off with the married Percy Bysshe Shelley at the age of 16 was just the beginning of a lifetime marked with scandal.  Mary was a hot topic for gossips throughout Europe in her day.  She suffered through her poet husband's infidelities and early death, the deaths of all but one of her children, abusive behavior from family members, and serious money problems.  She wrote her greatest work, Frankenstein, at the age of 19, and her career essentially went downhill from there.  While she remained a fixture on the fringe of rebel literary society, she never achieved the social acceptance or literary respectability she longed for.<br />Unfortunately, Miranda Seymour manages to take this whirlwind of a life and bore you to tears with it.  Her dry writing style and unpleasant habit of over-examining and revisiting minute details are exasperating.  Seymour's prose occasionally takes on a slangy tone that I found mildly annoying and inconsistent.  The book has it shining moments of clarity; however, I was often put-off by the author's confusing method of organizing her facts.  She jumped back and forth in time and it was often difficult to discern what year in Mary Shelley's life Seymour was trying to discuss.  It took me forever to finish \\"Mary Shelley\\" (to the point where it became a joke among family and friends) - the only reason I persevered is because I really wanted to know how this fascinating life culminated.  Call me a glutton for punishment - even though the presentation was maddeningly dry and poorly organized, Mary Shelley herself is captivating.  Perhaps another writer will take up her case more concisely some day.rganized, Mary Shelley herself is captivating.  Perhaps another writer will take up her case more concisely some day.	2002-01-31
US	53005856	R392VLHB03QNI8	0140175962	573767113	Daughters of Isis: Women of Ancient Egypt (Penguin History)	Books	4	15	16	N	Y	Fascinating Glimpse at the Women of Ancient Egypt	Egyptologist Joyce Tyldesley has provided us with a stunning rare glimpse into the lives of ancient Egyptian common and royal women.  This informative, well-researched book discusses the role women played in Egyptian art; marriage; common household life; women's work and leisure activities; grooming; royal women (from harem members to the female pharoahs); religious life and funerary customs for women.  Tyldesley explores every aspect of the lives of these ancient women - from their daily chores and child-rearing practices to their marital relationships and religious affiliations to descriptions of elaborate hairstyles, clothing and jewelry.  Tyldesley provides plenty of interesting photographs and drawings to illustrate her fascinating text, and includes an informative geographical and historical background, maps and a historical chronology of events to help orient the reader.  The book is extremely well organized and well written.  You will come away with a real understanding of and appreciation for the lives of ancient Egyptian women.	2001-09-29
US	53005856	RYPUPGP20CZCM	0375704868	595270144	The Accidental Asian: Notes of a Native Speaker	Books	4	11	13	N	N	The Asian American Experience Explained	As a second generation Chinese American, Eric Liu has spent much of his young life confronting issues of race, assimilation, and cultural identity, whether he wanted to or not. The MSNBC commentator, Washington Post contributor, and former Clinton speechwriter has assembled a thoughtful and introspective collection of essays on what it means to be &quot;Asian&quot; in America today, and the role race plays in our society. &quot;The Accidental Asian&quot; is Liu's successful attempt to explain the struggle many Asian Americans face as they attempt to balance a multicultural existence. The author provides well-balanced arguments for what can be described as his own multi-cultural personality complex. He defines the many cultural dilemmas he and many Asian Americans face - he &quot;feels&quot; American, however he &quot;looks&quot; Chinese, and is sometimes treated differently because of his appearance. He discusses the many facets of race and its role in American society, and how culture shapes who we are and how others perceive us.<br />Liu brightly and candidly explores ethical, racial and societal questions that are often not addressed outright by the Asian community or others. His essays are intelligent, inquisitive, and thought provoking, and his writing style is clean and elegant. He manages to delve deep into racial ethics without coming off as preachy, whiney or defensive. This book must have been very cathartic for Liu to write - he explores and discusses issues of race that have shaped how others perceive him, and he seems at peace with his multi-cultural roles. I got the sense that a lifetime of thought had gone into Liu's essays, and that by publishing this book he was sharing his most private and candid views on race, his own ethnicity, and his one-time desire to assimilate into &quot;white&quot; culture. He is unafraid to share his thoughts on all sides of racial issues, and it is refreshing to have an author be so up front about race and culture. I am not of Asian descent, and I feel that &quot;The Accidental Asian&quot; is a powerful and though-provoking read for people of all cultural backgrounds.	2001-09-29
US	53005856	R2SWB5YWEW40ZH	0934211361	788982499	Crowning Anguish	Books	1	7	7	N	Y	Crowning Anguish	I was largely disappointed with this book - I expected an autobiographical glimpse into the life of a pioneering feminist Iranian princess and her family.  What I got was a &quot;dear diary&quot;-style mess penned by a selfish and astonishingly conceited young woman.  Princess Taj al-Saltana's memoir of her life in her father's harem is loaded with self-aggrandizing statements and little else.  Granted, the princess' spoiled brat mentality and overblown self image are undoubtedly products of her coddled earlier life as the daughter of the Shah, however, the constant self promotion makes for terribly boring reading.  Taj rehashes the same themes and stories time and again, all while constantly paying homage to her own alleged beauty and intellect. I am sorry to say that the princess' method of relating her story was tiresome, and I couldn't wait for it to end.  I found myself rolling my eyes each time I came across a ludicrous reference to her great beauty or amazing mental capacity -- her photographs and her actions do not quite measure up to her excessive claims.  I was also disappointed by the lack of information regarding harem life.  For example, while she writes of the rituals involved with marriage, her disjointed writing style and intense self-focus give the reader only a fleeting idea of what actually happened during her marriage ceremony.  The princess' writing is unfocused and often skips back and forth in time, making her story difficult to follow.  The reader is provided with very little useful information about royal harem life.  The princess' interest in civil rights for Iranian women is overshadowed by her greater interest in her own freedom to do as she pleases.<br />The book was edited by Abbas Amanat, who provides a dry and lengthy prologue (of just over 100 pages) which sets the stage for the princess' memoir.  I found it puzzling at first that the prologue was so long, however, I soon recognized the need for it.  The princess provides very little historical orientation in her memoir, and it is necessary for the editor to fill his readers in with pertinent information regarding the political and social atmosphere in turn-of-the-century Iran.  While I agree that the intended topic of &quot;Crowning Anguish&quot; is fascinating, those interested in learning about harem life would be better off skipping this book.e historical orientation in her memoir, and it is necessary for the editor to fill his readers in with pertinent information regarding the political and social atmosphere in turn-of-the-century Iran.  While I agree that the intended topic of &quot;Crowning Anguish&quot; is fascinating, those interested in learning about harem life would be better off skipping this book.	2001-09-28
US	53005856	R14OJQ5G2V37KO	0060199652	822422067	Prodigal Summer	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	A Subtle, Thought-Provoking Tale of Human Behavior	Barbara Kingsolver has once again written a lush, three-dimensional story that is thought-provoking yet subtle. While &quot;Prodigal Summer&quot; isn't as outwardly mind-blowing as &quot;The Poisonwood Bible,&quot; it is a quieter novel that succeeds in haunting its readers with well-developed, down-to-earth characters and settings that are comfortingly familiar to American readers (even city dwellers can easily conjure Kingsolver's homespun farm scenes and damp woodland locales). The author uses themes that are easily relatable - the anxiety of trying to &quot;fit in,&quot; loneliness, plotting one's life - while interspersing the story with interesting technical aspects (I now know about the mating habits of coyotes and moths - who knew I would ever find such subjects as interesting as Kingsolver has made them!). As in her previous books, her research is impeccable, her writing evocative, crystal clear and flawless. True to her style, she creates characters and situations that are seemingly unrelated, but all loose strings tie up (more or less) neatly in the end. &quot;Prodigal Summer&quot; is Kingsolver's most easy-to-predict novel, however, it is a beautiful study of human and animal behavior and should not be missed!	2001-09-05
US	53005856	R2CJCAZGOJOVWM	076790382X	213092180	I'm a Stranger Here Myself: Notes on Returning to America After 20 Years Away	Books	1	19	34	N	N	We Are Not Amused...	At one point in Bill Bryson's &quot;I'm a Stranger Here Myself...,&quot; the author's wife proclaims &quot;You're always complaining in that column.&quot;  I couldn't agree more.  While some may be amused by the constant and often unwarranted grumblings of an unappreciative 40-something, I found myself searching hard for traces of humor and wit. Comprised of a series of articles on &quot;life in the US&quot; written for a British newspaper upon his return to the States after 20 years in England, Bryson's book comes off as a whiny oversimplification of situations that are generally not funny and oftentimes barely even mildly amusing.  While the book contains brief moments of truly clever humor, it is largely filled with exaggerated accounts of Bryson's inability to cope with life in general (I have the feeling that he didn't do much better in Merry Old England).  Bryson's articles hint that Americans are over-stimulated, unappreciative, under-educated clods who don't hold a candle to the British.  After several chapters, this becomes increasingly annoying.  Many of the essays deal with situations or sentiments that simply are not true of life in the U.S.  In his rants about the IRS and state and Federal budgets, it is clear that he doesn't have a clue what he is talking about - and the end result is just not funny.  I have lived abroad myself and cannot help but feel that Bryson was shamelessly pandering to his British audience when he wrote these articles.  I skipped many of the essays because they were too whiney, too annoying or too off the mark.  <br />I was truly disappointed by this book, especially since I had heard how funny and witty Bryson is -- perhaps his abilities are not properly highlighted in &quot;I'm a Stranger Her Myself.&quot;  I found this book to be a collection of boring complaints and meaningless commentary on mundane and oft-times wrongly portrayed aspects of supposed life in the United States.  He states at one point in the book that he doesn't &quot;understand most things.&quot;  No kidding.  Maybe if he knew what he was talking about, he could inject some more humor into his writing.  Or maybe his wife should give writing a try...	2001-09-05
US	53005856	R1CRJ5ATJT0SF6	0521560802	296518252	Pearl S. Buck: A Cultural Biography	Books	5	42	42	N	N	An Excellent Portrayal of an Extraordinary Woman	Peter Conn's sweeping biography of Pearl Buck is as fascinating and provocative as Ms. Buck herself. I have been an admirer of Buck's writing for years, however I never knew the true depth of her character and achievements until I read Conn's book. Not only was the Nobel Prize winner an excellent writer and champion of Chinese causes, but she was a staunch supporter of civil and women's rights, a tireless fundraiser, and an advocate for inter-racial/international adoption. She was a fearless and often controversial speaker on behalf of the under-represented and oppressed, and made a great impact on public opinion towards racial and gender equality. Conn covers all of these diverse aspects of Pearl Buck beautifully. His book is very well researched, well organized, and well written. He presents all sides of his subject - good and bad - in an unflinching and intelligent manner. He discusses the circumstances under which Buck wrote her greatest books, her first 40 years in China, and her experiences as a prominent global literary figure. I couldn't put the book down - it was wonderful to discover that the writer whose books I have cherished for so many years had lead such a compelling and multi-faceted life. There is much more to Pearl Buck than even her impressive body of literary work suggests - and Peter Conn has done a tremendous job of revealing the many sides of this remarkable woman.	2001-09-05
US	53005856	R32LI3WJA83WBN	0375506276	990748107	The Fourth Hand	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The Subtle Side of Irving	I waited eagerly for the release of Irving's 10th novel, and was once again blown away by the author's amazing writing style, his ability to weave together storylines, and his fantastic character development. The Fourth Hand is one of Irving's quieter novels, but it still embodies all of the characteristics that make Irving one of our best contemporary novelists. It contains a smaller number of characters and subplots than his previous books, such as the recent Widow for One Year, the spectacular Son of the Circus, or the classics Prayer for Owen Meaney and Ciderhouse Rules, yet it is just as intriguing and well-written. I won't get into describing the plot - that would ruin it for you. What I think is most important is how this book makes you feel as you read it. Within a few chapters, I was &quot;living&quot; with the characters and could barely put the book down! Irving has a marvelous ability to draw the reader in with multi-faceted, well-developed characters that are easy to get involved with. You don't necessarily identify with the characters (some of them are not exactly upstanding citizens), however, Irving's magic lies in his ability to make you understand and care about his characters, regardless of their behavior. He is a true genius when it comes to character development. I was most impressed with his portrayal of a character named Doris - he tantalizes the reader by releasing snippets of information about this odd, off-center woman over time, so that the reader is as baffled by her as protagonist Patrick Wallingford is. We learn about her as Patrick does - and the suspense Irving creates is palpable! Many of Irving's trademark conventions and themes make cameo appearances in The Fourth Hand, and while some critics have disparaged Irving for incorporating fragments of themes recurrent from his previous novels, I enjoyed these little &quot;winks&quot; from the author. He remains true to his interests, and those familiar with his work will have fun with the little nods to Irving's prior subjects. (For instance, a brief but important part of the story takes place in India, setting for Son of the Circus. The author's interest in medical practices and ethics is revived, although in a completely different manner than was showcased in Ciderhouse Rules.) True to the author's style, characters and subplots are beautifully interwoven - what appear to be loose ends are neatly and intelligently tied together as the novel progresses. Irving's writing style is smooth, seamless and wonderfully descriptive. It really is a joy to read a novel so beautifully and thoughtfully composed. Irving is not afraid to include controversial subject matter in his novels. In The Fourth Hand, ethics are central to the storyline. Medical ethics, the ethics of journalism and journalistic integrity, and the ethics of human relationships (both parent-child and male-female) are explored. While the question of ethics is a constant underlying theme, the reader does not feel as if s/he is being force-fed Irving's personal ideas. He presents his subject matter objectively, and the characters wrestle with their own versions of &quot;ethics&quot; as they interpret them. Hence, the novel takes on a personal and introspective tone, and does not feel preachy or condescending (something that would have bothered me very much). Irving has the ability to rise above issues and present both sides of the coin in a way that is comfortable and curiously entertaining. This book is thought provoking and realistic. Most importantly, The Fourth Hand is about love - love of life, love of oneself (or learning to love oneself), love of family, and romantic love. While this is never stated outright, at the novel's end it becomes apparent that all of the characters are motivated by their desire to love - love their child, love their job/life situation, love a partner or potential partner. That is another gift Irving give us - you never quite realize how deep theh story reachesuntil the book is over. Reflecting on his novels and the many themes they incorporate is sometimes more fun that actually reading them. As with his other novels, The Fourth Hand will stay with you for days - it will keep popping up out of your subconscious. For this I will always be thankful for John Irving - he never ceases to make you think. The Fourth Hand is a well-written, compelling, thought-provoking and insightful book, as well as a real joy to read. While some have expressed disappointment with this novel, I feel that perhaps they may have had such high expectations that they failed to appreciate the quiet, subtle message of this wonderful book.	2001-07-31
US	53005856	R330X0F0D2CLVT	0691016143	145062187	The Plum in the Golden Vase or, Chin P'ing Mei: Vol. 1, The Gathering	Books	5	78	81	N	N	Fascinating Plot - Superb Translation	David Tod Roy's translation of the classic 16th century Chin P'ing Mei is awesome and right on the money.  The story leaps off the pages - this is how this famous vernacular Chinese novel was meant to be read!  Every element of the story is clear and concise in Roy's translation, allowing the reader to enjoy the plot and the fascinating characters. <br />To briefly discuss the storyline, Chin P'ing Mei is a \\"spin off\\" from the classic Chinese novel Outlaws of the Marsh, and focuses on the trials and tribulations of the conniving seductress Pan Chin-lien and the new life she leads after murdering her husband.  Some scholars of Chinese traditional literature will not like this allusion, but the story reads like a modern-day soap opera.  The characters are lusty and scheming, and the general climate is electric.  The general plot follows the intricate daily triumphs and frustrations of Hsi-Men Ching and his `harem\\" of six wives and concubines (among them Pan Chin-lien). The story is rife with inter-household competition, infidelity, corruption, domestic abuse and eroticism.  Characters are well developed, and the scenery is vivid.  It provides a fascinating glimpse into the lives of the merchant class in 16th century China.   It is easy to see how this novel has captured audiences for 400 years - and David Tod Roy's excellent translation will no doubt help it to endure for many more years to come.	2001-05-08
US	53005856	R3A8G3P0TB8BEU	0140442936	358990292	The Story of the Stone, or The Dream of the Red Chamber, Vol. 1: The Golden Days	Books	5	27	31	N	N	A Creative Masterpiece	Written in 1750, The Story of the Stone is an impressive and fascinating tale that incorporates otherworldly magic and mysticism with the saga of wealthy Jia family.  The five-volume story chronicles the family's high-living glory days through their bitter decline, all the while immersing the reader in rich details of daily life in 18th century China.  I completely agree with the following quote from the Times Higher Educational Supplement: \\"an astonishing book.  It recreates a world that would otherwise be utterly lost.\\"  Anyone even mildly interested in Chinese history and culture will be enthralled by this glimpse into the privileged world of wealthy 18th century Chinese.<br />Author Cao Xueqin was truly a creative genius - Story of the Stone is multi-faceted, multi-dimensional, and superbly crafted. While reading the first chapter of the first book (Dream of the Red Chamber), I was struck with how utterly clever and imaginative the story is.  You will instantly be aware that you are reading something that has endured almost three hundred years for a very good reason.  The story is populated with dozens of wonderfully three-dimensional characters - many of whom are woven in and out of the story making for a most interesting read.  Most notable is the spoiled and curiously effeminate protagonist Jia Bao-yu, who possesses a special, magical item that I won't reveal here (don't want to spoil your enjoyment of the book!).<br />All of the elements that make traditional Chinese literature such a joy to read are embodied in Story of the Stone.  Elaborate settings, delicate verse, and traditional symbolism (with a healthy dose of humor and bawdiness) create a beautiful and riveting story that will keep you wanting more.  I highly recommend reading the entire 5-book series.  It is impressive that a work can stand the test of time as well as Story of the Stone has. David Hawkes' fine translation is excellent.  Although some have criticized him for using too much \\"slang,\\" Ifeel that his translation is effective in expressing the character's true sentiments, and it is tremendously easy to read.  Story of the Stone is an unforgettable and awesome read that I highly recommend.	2001-05-08
US	53005856	R3DHAZX2W6B1ZO	1585420263	120878186	The Lost Daughters of China: Abandoned Girls, Their Journey to America, and Their Searchfor a Missing Past	Books	5	45	50	N	N	Evans Has Done a Tremendous Service by Writing this Book	Karin Evans has done a great service by writing this book.  While it is an invaluable resource to present and future adoptive parents of Chinese children, it is also an important reminder for everyone of the situation in China that has lead to the abandonment of countless baby girls.<br />Evan's story is tremendously moving, although she never resorts to gimmicky heartstring pulling.  She tells the barefaced truth about Chinese adoption, complete with the anxiety, frustration, confusion and utter joy that accompanies the process.  She also very intelligently outlines the underlying factors that enable Americans to adopt Chinese babies in the first place.  While never accusing or pointing a finger, she thoughtfully presents well-researched information about China's one-child policy and the cultural preference for male children, and discusses government attempts to curb population.  She explores the anguish experienced by Chinese birth parents who must give up their children in hope of giving them a better life, and she is respectful of the painful decisions these parents are forced to make.  In addition, Anchee Min's brief preface is haunting.  Lost Daughters of China is not only for those considering Chinese adoption, but for anyone interested in child welfare and/or Chinese social policy.	2001-05-08
US	53005856	R37LAR6ZPPY0YZ	0231101198	198227955	Master Tung's Western Chamber Romance (Tung Hsi-Hsiang Chu-Kung-Tiao : A Chinese Chantefable)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Beautiful, Historical, Racy!	Master Tung's Western Chamber Romance is a lovely example of the vernacular story in traditional Chinese Literature.  Written in stunning verse interspersed with prose, the story chronicles the seemingly ill-fated love affair of the scholar Chang and his love, Ying-Ying.  The pair endure many of the same hardships as modern couples: miscommunication, forbidding mothers, and family influence among them.  In addition to the lovers' travails, the story includes intrigue, an attempted attack by rebels, and deception, all told lilting verse and clever prose.  The characters are well rounded for an older piece of Chinese literature, and story flows easily.  Despite being several hundred years old, this piece from the 12th century has endured time and is still a lively, interesting and relatable story today.	2001-03-22
US	53005856	R3KQICJ3M8GRBR	7119016628	992324585	Outlaws of the Marsh (Chinese Classics, Classic Novel in 4 Volumes)	Books	5	51	53	N	N	A Riveting Tale that has Endured the Centuries	\\"Outlaws of the Marsh\\" provides a fascinating look into 14th century Chinese literature- and thus the minds of 14th century Chinese the story was intended to entertain.  The story was extremely popular in its day, for many of the same reasons that it endures as a stunning example of Chinese story telling today.  <br />An excellent example of 14th century Chinese vernacular literature, \\"Outlaws of the Marsh\\" has been a favorite of Chinese readers for over 600 years.  This riveting story has endured the centuries for a very good reason. It contains elements that captivate even today's jaded audiences: deception, violence, murder, gangs, and drunken revelry.   Rife with charismatic heroes, scheming beauties, wild troublemakers and corrupt officials, the story brims with interesting characters and plot twists.  The outlaws of Liangshan Marsh, societal outcasts drawn together by their misdeeds, form an almost super-human collective against the unjust (sort of like a precursor to Robin Hood). The story is peopled with rash, violent men; lusty, evil-minded beauties; upstanding men of honor fighting for what is right; well-meaning yet dangerous oafs; and corrupt, tyrannical officials.  This tale of Song Jiang, Wu Song, and the rest of the &quot;outlaws&quot; will keep you on the edge of your seat.	2001-03-22
US	53005856	R1QDX94CQ3QYCT	0899667260	444979553	Auntie Mame	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Terrific - An Irreverent Escapade Indeed!	I have been a big fan of the film version of Auntie Mame for many years - I am now an even bigger fan of the original book! Patrick Dennis will make you laugh out loud throughout his witty and blunt portrayal of life with Auntie Mame, a fabulously wealthy women who is particularly adept at being fabulous.  <br />The book has more of an edge than the tame and happy movie does, and tackles several social issues such as anti-semitism, unwed motherhood, class stigmas, prostitution and bigotry.  Mame uses fighting words when dealing with Patrick's anti-semitic future in-laws, and Patrick even gets mixed up with a tawdry prostitute for a brief spell. In spite of the weighty subjects the book addresses, Dennis manages to do so respectfully but with an excellent sense of humor.  The escapades described in the book are far more daring than those in the film - the print medium allowed Dennis a tremendous amount of freedom.  Think of the film (wonderful as it is) as a sanitized, family version of the grittier and funnier novel.  You get a better sense of the characters, many of whom are not even mentioned in the movie.  Also, many of the film's major characters play only minor roles in the book.  Dennis builds a lot of depth into his characters.  You can practically hear Mame as you read.  I laughed so hard one night my husband told me to get out of bed and read somewhere else (Mame actually gets someone to refer to her by the nickname &quot;Cuddles&quot; - it's too much!  You have to read the book to appreciate how funny that is!)  I loved it!<br />Dennis' wry presentation is terrific, and his dialogue is incredibly well written. He has a true gift for comedic writing, while at the same time he manages to not be disrespectful or condescending. Looking back on the content of the book, I don't know how he did it.  He's Amazing, and so is Auntie Mame!	2001-03-08
US	53005856	R22KRP6LKTGTW2	1559211687	132843379	Peony: A Novel of China	Books	5	220	224	N	N	Subtle and Moving - One of Pearl Buck's Best	&quot;Peony&quot; is a subtle, quiet novel - an excellent example of Pearl Buck's elegant and dignified style.  Based on true events, the novel chronicles the life of Peony, a bondmaid who was sold to a wealthy Chinese/Jewish family.  &quot;Peony&quot; can be considered a work of historical fiction, as Ms. Buck's excellent research provides accurate and extremely interesting information on Jews in China.<br />The story takes place over a century ago in K'aifeng, the home of the largest Jewish colony in China.  At the time, Jews were rapidly assimilating into Chinese society and culture, and losing their Jewish identity.  &quot;Peony&quot; tells the story of one particularly prominent Jewish family through the eyes of the ethnic Chinese bondmaid, and how the problem of assimilation effects each family member individually.  The topic - Jewish identity in China - is fascinating and not commonly discussed.  <br />Ms. Buck's amazing ability to create depth of character is in strong evidence in &quot;Peony,&quot; and all of the characters are extremely well developed and realistic.  While the story incorporates a historic element, it also includes interesting subplots of unrequited love, familial strife, and the age-old Chinese (and Jewish) concept of filial duty and respect.<br />This book is indicative of Pearl Buck's genius and gift for storytelling. Ms. Buck doesn't need to resort to hyperbole to get her point across - the words are carefully chosen and the story is beautifully constructed.  Her writing style is gorgeous and evocative. The author's famous love for China and its many cultures is evident in her delicate prose - she treats the characters and the plot with utmost respect and historical accuracy.  The beauty of China and the Chinese and Jewish cultures are done tremendous justice by this lovely book.	2001-02-18
US	53005856	R3EAWJPHGQHPW5	0312099436	900086516	Women of the Silk: A Novel	Books	5	57	59	N	N	Compelling and Vivid - Not to be Missed	Women of the Silk captures the realities, struggles, and infrequent joys of working women in early 20th century China.  Gail Tsukiyama's elegant portrayal of Pei, a girl sold to a silk factory by her destitute parents is riveting.  Pei's life, though riddled with hardship, is enriched by her relationships with other women who share her fate.  The factory women enjoy a sisterhood, which bolsters their self-confidence and sense of self worth.  This bond, coupled with the autonomy afforded them by living on their own without husbands, enables the silk factory women to enjoy a measure of freedom and self-confidence that was unobtainable to married Chinese women of the era.  Instilled with a sense of belonging and confidence, the &quot;sisters&quot; gather the collective strength to stand up to the brutal factory chiefs and fight for their rights. <br />Women of the Silk is a compelling story of sisterhood, finding inner strength, and standing up for what you believe in.  Gail Tsukiyama's writing style is flowing and well organized, making the story immensely enjoyable to read.  The characters are three-dimensional and extremely well developed. Ms. Tsukiyama's vivid imagery allows the reader to actually \\"see\\" the scenes that she describes.   The story of Pei and her sisters will make you think, as it provides accurate historical overviews of life in China in the 1920s and 30s.  The women endure tragedy, societal abuse, and the effects of political strife while enjoying unique bonds of friendship and solidarity. I was sorry to see this book come to an end, but luckily there is a sequel - The Language of the Threads.	2001-02-18
US	53005856	R30V6CGSD6N6DB	0910129339	128787270	Between Pit and Pedestal: Women in the Middle Ages	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Look into Daily Life in the Middle Ages	&quot;Between Pit and Pedestal&quot; offers a fascinating in-depth look into the daily lives of women during the middle ages.  Authors Marty Newman Williams and Anne Echols present a well-rounded overview of what life for women from various stations of life was like during this era (information on rich and poor, religious women, and scholars is provided).  The book is divided into well-researched chapters that offer commentaries on every day life, personal relationships and sexual mores, religion, politics and law as it pertained to women, culture, work, and literature and art.  No stone is left unturned, and the authors provide many interesting biographies of medieval women whenever possible to reinforce their research.<br />The book is fascinating, and reads easily.  Extremely well researched, the book includes helpful notes and citations, an excellent bibliography for further reading and a glossary.  You will come away with a clear idea of what life was like for women in the Middle Ages, as well as knowledge regarding politics, community life, morals, and religious thought of the time.	2001-02-18
US	53005856	R23RXEFXG0XLZC	0684842165	128369369	An Uncommon Woman - The Empress Frederick: Daughter of Queen Victoria, Wife of the Crown Prince of Prussia, Mother of Kaiser Wilhelm	Books	4	63	63	N	N	Truly an Uncommon Historical Figure	Hannah Pakula's fascinating portrayal of the life of Vicky, eldest daughter of Queen Victoria, wife of Kaiser Frederick and mother of Kaiser Wilhelm, provides insight on a woman largely ignored in history.  Surrounded by historical luminaries, Vicky's often unhappy and frustrating life was glanced over by biographers and history books until Ms. Pakula took up her cause - and we are lucky she did.  Pakula's exhaustive and meticulous research and excellent biographical abilities have created an intriguing portrait of a women maltreated by just about everyone - from her domineering mother and jealous mother-in-law, to her ungrateful children, to the domineering Otto von Bismarck.  Vicky somehow found the strength to overcome all of the strong personalities in her life and forge a path for herself that centered on charity work and supporting her kind but long-suffering husband, Crown Prince (and later, for a brief time, Kaiser) Friedrich.<br />Vicky's intelligence is legendary, and she often saw political situations more clearly than those in power did.  Her constant correspondence with her mother, which is heavily excerpted by Pakula, provides fascinating insight to the Princess' attributes and weaknesses.  It also makes me thankful that I was not a daughter of Queen Victoria - the criticism and guilt the monarch heaped on her eldest daughter is criminal.  But I suppose that dealing with her abusive mother helped steel Vicky for the horrific behavior of her children, particularly that of her two eldest - Charlotte and the future Kaiser Wilhelm.  <br />Ms. Pakula infuses &quot;An Uncommon Woman&quot; with large doses of well-researched historical and political information, which helps to orient the reader and affords insight on the true scope of the situations Vicky dealt with in her daily life.  The reader will come away from &quot;An Uncommon Woman&quot; with a decent understanding of British and German politics of the era. The book is very well organized.  Pakula's writing style is clean and concise, which is helpful due to the large amount of historical information she provides. I felt that I received an extremely well-rounded and unbiased view of Vicky, who is a fascinating figure and certainly deserves the dedication that Pakula has obviously invested in her research and writing of this book.<br />Pakula has done an excellent job of providing an extremely thorough account of Empress Frederick, who was truly a most uncommon woman.	2001-02-18
US	53005856	R3EFCNKL1P7W3C	0892641428	141859283	The Tower of Myriad Mirrors (Michigan Classics in Chinese Studies)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Journey Through the Psyche of a Mystical Monk	Almost four hundred years before movies like \\"The Sixth Sense\\" shocked audiences with surprise endings, Tung Yueh's \\"Tower of Myriad Mirrors\\" was blowing away mid 17th century China with its own original brand of psyche-out plot twists.  \\"Tower\\" was a gripping tale to its originally intended audience, and the story has stood the test of time and is read to this day due to its fantastic imagery and imaginative method of imparting Buddhist theory.<br /> I read &quot;Tower of Myriad Mirrors&quot; for a class in traditional Chinese literature and enjoyed it thoroughly.  I have an avid interest in traditional and contemporary Chinese literature, but a serious background in this genre is not necessary to understand and enjoy &quot;Tower...\\"  All that is needed is good concentration and patience, and perhaps a quick online look at background information on Mahayana Buddhism.  The story may appear confusing and disjointed at times, but if you persevere, you will find that everything comes together beautifully in the last chapter.  Keep in mind that it is imperative to read the forward - it provides the necessary orientation needed to understand the story.<br />\\"Tower's\\" protagonist, a somewhat wayward monk named Monkey (who has, in fact, the outward appearance of an ape) embarks on a fantastical journey in search ways to help his master reach India, where they are to procure Buddhist scriptures to bring back to China.  Tung Yueh wrote this 16-chapter novella (most Chinese novels are in excess of 100 chapters) as a supplement to the famous narrative \\"Journey to the West\\" as a way to explore the psyche of the Monkey character.  It is elegantly written and conjures imagry that is beautiful and exotic as well as brutal and violent.<br />Written in 1640, \\"Tower...\\" is an excellent example of the traditional vernacular stories that were widely used to relate the messages of Buddhism to the masses.  To hold the attention and stay in the memory of common Chinese, the stories ofteninvolve fantastic imagery, scores of monsters and evil beings, beautiful women, and impossible feats of magic - all of which are evidenced in \\"Tower...\\"  The Buddhist message of \\"Tower\\" is that one must strive to overcome the demons of desire within oneself - and this message is delivered by means of a fascinating journey through a dream world conjured up Monkey's mind.<br />While \\"Tower of Myriad Mirrors\\" is not an easy read, it is a rewarding one.  This edition is well translated and provides many helpful footnotes that will enable readers not well-versed in the background of Chinese vernacular religious stories or Buddhism to understand.  Approach it with an open mind and perhaps a willingness to look up some information on Mahayana Buddhism, and you won't be disappointed.	2001-02-08
US	53005856	R3TEMAZG3X98QT	0312198884	90328442	Give Me the World	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	A Gutsy Transglobal Trek	Leila Hadley defies the 1950's female stereotype when she takes off for Asia with her young son in tow.  Leaving a prosperous career behind, Hadley is in search of more enlightening and meaningful experiences than her lush New York life affords her.  She does very little in the way of planning, throws caution to the wind and hopes for the best.  While the first part of her Asian adventure is quite comfortable and even luxurious at times, she dives headfirst into the adventure she covets when she hitches a ride aboard a sailboat with a small, all-male American crew.  Her stories of her experiences sailing to remote destinations throughout Southeast and Southwest Asia and the Mediterranean are exhilarating and fascinating.  Hadley's writing style is a bit haughty, however her stories are so interesting that this small flaw is hardly noticeable.  Not the best travel memoir I have ever read, but an interesting tale by a gutsy traveler who was before her time.	2001-01-09
US	53005856	R2MMKK3L9PX0II	0865475091	93867339	Caught Inside: A Surfer's Year on the California Coast	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	The Philosophy of Surfing	To sit in freezing water with even colder air temperatures for hours waiting for a good wave is an exercise in discipline, although a lot of people would say that discipline is precisely what the quintessential surfer lacks.  Author Dan Duane exhibits discipline and several other honorable traits in &quot;Caught Inside,&quot; his thoughtful memoir of a year spent following a dream and accomplishing a goal. While some may scoff at what can be called the &quot;surfer mentality,&quot; Duane goes deep beneath the surface and dredges up a lot of emotion and introspective philosophical sentiments about why he surfs (and why he does anything worth doing).  Duane is well-read, intelligent and expressive, and the book is interesting, beautifully written and thought provoking. I would imagine that Duane's musings would be valuable, meaningful and applicable even to those who have never even seen the ocean, much less ridden a wave.  <br />PS to reviewer Christopher Seal - women surf too!	2001-01-09
US	53005856	R2WIPMBIZCJ2BS	0060977213	699705841	The Burgermeister's Daughter: Scandal in a Sixteenth-Century German Town	Books	1	9	20	N	Y	Intriguing Topic - Poor Representation	Steven Ozment has managed to take an intriguing subject - the sordid (and true) affairs of a 16th century Burgermeister's daughter - and make it as dull and unreadable as possible. I concur with other Amazon reviewers who stated that Ozment's writing and research are both deeply flawed. His account of the willful and oft-unfairly treated Anna Bueschler could be a fascinating commentary on 16th century German history, social mores, family and romantic relationships, politics and the role of women in society. Instead, Ozment neglects all of these possibilities and focuses on the most mundane aspects of Bueschler's case, and does so poorly at that. Events are discussed out of order, sources are thrown about haphazardly, and the wonderful surviving letters that relate to Anna Bueschler are not used to their best advantage. The author repeats the same themes over and over throughout the book, while never really making any progress in his analysis of Anna's situation. The book reads like a bad high school textbook. It is a shame that such a fascinating and strong-willed historical figure has been treated so unjustly by Ozment (as she often was in life by her peers!). Perhaps another more-organized historian will take up the case of Anna Bueschler and do right by her.	2001-01-09
US	53005856	R1UR744S1XIYO9	0679767789	556287238	Lost In Place: Growing Up Absurd in Suburbia	Books	4	16	16	N	Y	Absurd Kids Grow Up To Be Great Writers	Anyone who has enjoyed Mark Salzman's book and subsequent film &quot;Iron and Silk&quot; will love the glimpse at Salzman's adolescence offered in &quot;Lost in Place.&quot;  This warm and honest introspective look at the author's childhood is charming and funny.  The author's love of martial arts and all things Asian manifested itself early, and Salzman's accomplishments as an adult have blossomed from his early eccentricities. Salzman was a bizarre kid, and this fact makes for terrific storytelling (at one point, he attempted to become a Zen monk, living austerely in the basement of his family home).  The author has a natural, easy-going writing style that is at the same time intelligent and concise.  He admits to the stranger moments of his adolescence with grace and dignity, and treats his accomplishments humbly.  &quot;Growing Up Absurd&quot; is such a terrific story - Salzman's early teen experiences make a case for the adage &quot;from humble beginnings come great things!.&quot; With a childhood like this (weird as he was), it's easy to see how Salzman grew up to be a great writer and filmmaker.	2001-01-09
US	53005856	R1KVAUTS1P6MWM	0816035482	959556980	Ellis Island Interviews	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A Historical Treasure Trove	The result of diligent research, intensive interviewing and careful editing, the &quot;Ellis Island Interviews - In Their Own Words&quot; is a historical treasure trove. In the tradition of Studs Turkel, editor Peter Morton Coan has compiled dozens of interviews depicting the Ellis Island immigration experience.  In their own words, immigrants from all walks of life relate the stories of their passage, often providing information about the places they came from, what their trip to the United States was like, why the came, and where they went after leaving Ellis Island. Each story is different of course, but each has a common goal:  the dream of a better life in America.  Coan also includes interviews with Ellis Island employees and provides background information on U.S. immigration policies and Ellis Island operations to help orient the reader.<br />Coan's excellent research and editing of the interviews has yielded an invaluable resource of our country's immigration history.  The stories are fascinating, and the guts and determination possessed by many of the immigrants are beyond admirable.  Reading the &quot;Ellis Island Interviews&quot; is a touching and humbling experience - it will help you to better appreciate what those who came before you have endured.  Ellis Island ceased to be an INS port in 1954, and almost all of those who came to the U.S. through Ellis Island are now very advanced in age - we have Coan to thank for preserving their stories for generations to come.	2001-01-08
US	53005856	R34MOOKBF3GP67	0446363251	861890745	Scarlett: The Sequel to Margaret Mitchell's "Gone With the Wind"	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A Great Indulgence - Lots of Fun!	I am almost embarrassed to admit that I read this book - a sequel to Gone With the Wind?!  It just sounds so ridiculous on so many levels! Yet, not only did I read it, but I loved it!  Scarlett is real mind candy - engrossing and terrifically fun to read.  I actually read the whole thing (all 884 pages) in two days while recovering from the flu - I almost never put it down and was completely absorbed by it.  Alexandra Ripley's  writing may not be the absolute best, but the story is riveting, carefully planned, and filled with well-developed characters.  Ripley indeed picks up where Margaret Mitchell left off, and does so with great respect for the integrity of the original story.  Don't laugh - Scarlett is a fantastic story and is a must for anyone who loved Gone With the Wind.	2001-01-08
US	53005856	R2J7R23Z6Z5EFX	052594527X	858318999	Girl With a Pearl Earring	Books	1	36	55	N	Y	Vermeer Would Roll in His Grave if He Could Read This	As an undergraduate, I wrote my senior (art history) thesis on Vermeer's masterpiece entitled \\"The Love Letter,\\" and became well versed on what little information exists on the Dutch master.  While I understand that \\"Girl With Pearl Earring\\" is a work of historical fiction, I feel that the many of the author's elaborations border on the ridiculous (I particularly have problems with the portrayal of Vermeer's wife, who is depicted as an evil, jealous shrew).  In general, I found this small story about a poor girl forced to serve as a maid in the home of Delft artist Johannes Vermeer boring and slow-paced.  Laborious descriptions of the girl's workday and contemptuous relationships with other servants and the painter's family are tedious.  Chevalier has failed to do her homework and has taken too many liberties with history, resulting in a story that is flawed and silly.  Girl With Pearl Earring was a great disappointment that definitely falls far short of the genius Vermeer's name implies.  With all the false attributions made over the years to Vermeer, I am sure that this book would be the one association that would make him roll in his grave	2001-01-08
US	53005856	R1Y643D68DAEIA	0375502947	926761267	Georgiana: Duchess of Devonshire	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	Foreman is a First-Rate Biographer	Amanda Foreman's stunning portrayal of Georgiana, Duchess of Devonshire is riveting!  The author's meticulous research and excellent writing bring this vibrant, fascinating woman to life.  An icon of Whig politics, entertaining, fashion, science and popular literature (not to mention gambling and intriguing social escapades), Georgiana accomplished more in her short lifetime than a dozen women combined.  This historical biography reads like a novel, and Foreman's lively, three-dimensional depiction of her subject will cause you to bond with Georgiana before you finish the first chapter.  In addition to the wonderful insight Foreman provides on Georgian's life, the book is also an excellent source of 18th century British political and social commentary. A wonderful, informative read!	2001-01-08
US	53005856	R187UO4HAA3CO	031216808X	653647626	The Dark Lady from Belorusse: A Memoir	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A Good Imagination Can Go A Long Way	Jerome Charyn's &quot;Dark Lady From Belorusse&quot; is an entertaining little book, however it is practically impossible to believe that even a quarter of the events depicted in this &quot;memoir&quot; are true. Charyn would have us believe that he grasped situations at the age of five that wouldn't be well handled by a 50-year-old. I took the stories he tells about his mother, her interaction with local Bronx gangsters, and his dysfunctional family with a grain of salt. While some of these events may have taken place, there is no way they occurred as the author remembers them in this book. The author's fanciful embellishments can be a little annoying - what exactly does he take his readers for? - especially since he is attempting to pass the book off as a work of nonfiction. Charyn does better by his readers in his sequel to the &quot;Dark Lady&quot; entitled &quot;The Black Swan,&quot; where he admits in an endnote that many of the events and characters depicted are fictional. <br />Disappointment over blatant fabrication aside, Charyn is a very creative writer with a vivid imagination that makes for interesting reading. His writing style can be a bit disjointed, and he sometimes clouds his descriptions with confusing, non-essential fodder that strays from the main idea. Charyn's anecdotes are entertaining if not believable, and the characters are vivid and fun to read about (although you'd probably not want to actually meet these people!). If poor little Charyn's mother and father are anything in life as they are in the book, the kid should be given a medal for survival. The portrayals are fascinating, and one would hope that there aren't too many parents out there like the one &quot;Baby&quot; has to endure.<br />&quot;The Dark Lady...&quot; is only about 100 pages long - you can read it in no time. If you have an afternoon to spare and don't mind the author's inability to discern fact from fiction, give it a read	2001-01-02
US	53005856	R1Q2MZKFSI0O8M	0679756760	256365950	When I Was Puerto Rican	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Insightful and Heart-Rending	Ms. Santiago takes the reader on a journey through her childhood that will break your heart.  The child's joy, angst and confusion over her nomadic family life, her love for both of her oft-separated parents, and her will to learn make for captivating reading.  The author has poured her soul into this introspective book - the writing process must have been cathartic for her.  Ms. Santiago's writing is beautiful, inspiring and poignant - she is able to write about her life in a wonderfully uplifting manner.  Although her family was poor and her situation often far below her ideal, she never wallows in self pity.  It must be with this positive strength that she drew the stamina to continue on to a very successful adulthood.  She revisits her childhood with joy and simplicity. This is a book not to be missed - I enjoyed it so much that I have ordered several of her other books.	2001-01-02
US	53005856	R3KFZX11ABJANG	1860340040	252637508	The Silver Drum: A Japanese Imperial Memoir (Global Oriental)	Books	3	2	3	N	Y	Glossing Over an Imperial Life	While I enjoyed this quick, easy memoire of Japan's Princess Chichibu, sister-in-law to Emperor Hirihito, I couldn't help but be accutely aware of the glaring ommisions the Princess (or the Japanese Imperial Family) chose to make.  For instance, the events of World War II are mentioned almost casually.  While the Princess admits to being concerned for her country and for her American and British friends during this period, she appears cold and out-of-touch in relation to current events.  Granted, this lack of emotion and information is most definitely due to censorship by the Japanese Imperial Family, who have for centuries made an impressive show of unemotional disconnectedness with their people.  The princess does admit at the end of the book that she feared the Imperial Family was out of touch with real people, and this statement helps the reader to better understand why the Princess behaved as she did throughout her life.<br />Dorothy Britton's translation of the Princess' memoire is halting and riddled with typographical errors.  However, these faults do not impose too much upon the story - they almost help to bring the voice of the princess alive, as one can imagine Princess Chichibu reading her story aloud in hesitant English.<br />As a whole, this glimpse into the daily life of a member of Japanese royalty is very interesting, even if it appears to only scratch the surface.  It is understandable that the Princess was restricted in what she was able to portray regarding political sentiments and other members of the royal family.  She does her best to give an honest account of her own personal life, and chooses to focus on details of cermonies and her day-to-day activities.  I believe that &quot;The Silver Drum&quot; is the only memoire of a member of the modern Japanese royal family, and the princess was a pioneer in reaching out to the public to make the aloof family more accessible.	2001-01-02
US	53005856	R1JAE3EIQPS8PM	0312187459	237942375	The Memoirs of Cleopatra: A Novel	Books	5	16	18	N	Y	Fun and Fascinating - Cleopatra Comes Alive!	Margaret George has a real gift for bringing characters to life.  Despite the fact that very little verifiable information survives about the real Cleopatra, George's active imagination has created an intriguing and fascinating title character in this epic piece of historical fiction.  The author conjures up vivid imagery, peoples the story with three-dimensional characters, and has certainly done her research when it comes to representing Eqyptian and Roman culture of the era.  She includes many historical facts, while creatively filling in the blanks with characters and events that are purely products of her wonderfully vivid imagination.  The end result of this blend of fact and fiction is a thoroughly enjoyable, highly readable and fascinating account a remarkable (though mostly fabricated) woman.<br />While I tend to gravitate towards books based entirely on historical fact, I enjoyed Margaret George's Memoires of Cleopatra tremendously.  Despite the ponderous size of the book, it's a light read and is immensely entertaining.  It would make an excellent vacation book, as it is easy to loose yourself in it.  I found myself sneaking it under my desk at work - I simply couldn't put it down.  Don't be daunted by the book's length - I was sorry to see it end!	2000-12-30
US	53005856	R2HYF93ES5T94S	006019491X	694565872	Daughter of Fortune: A Novel	Books	5	49	50	N	N	Allende Spans Cultures and Ideals with Daughter of Fortune	I'll start by saying that I purchased this book prior to it being selected by Oprah's book club, and didn't get around to reading it until Oprah had added it to her list.  I tend to not enjoy the books Oprah chooses - I am not into the touchy-feely stuff she tends to gravitate towards.  So, when she added it to her list, I lost my desire to read it.  A few days ago, for some inexplicable reason, I took it off the shelf and started to read...and read and read...I couldn't put it down!  Isabel Allende is a gifted writer.  She posesses the rare ability to manage several plots, weave characters in and out of storylines, and create vivid imagery without overburdoning the reader or overcomplicating the story.  I don't want to get into reviewing the plot or characters - what you need to know is that the characters are extremely well developed and tangible, the story is unpredictable (it twists just when you think it won't) and Allende's writing is beautiful.  She chooses lovely words, builds tremendous depth into her characters, and draws the reader into the story with her vivid descriptions of events.  The story is also well researched, and includes fascinating background information on Victorian English Society, life in Chile during the mid-1800s, life in China during that era, seafarers, and the California Gold Rush.  It is so refreshing to see that an author can write a gripping story that also includes factual historical information.  Allende has done her homework.  Daughter of Fortune is a wonderful read.	2000-12-14
US	53005856	R1OTC7NN9W23D5	0345389964	946634305	A Son of the Circus	Books	5	35	37	N	N	Irving's Best - A Creative Wild Ride	I read this book when it first came out, and was buying a copy for a friend when I noticed how mixed Amazon's reader ratings were.  I was shocked, as I truly believe this to be Irving's finest book yet. Everything that is intriguing, outrageous and wonderful about Irving's intense writing style and ultra-creative story-telling abilities is epitomized in Son of the Circus.  It is not necessarily an easy read, as Irving presents a LOT of information for the reader to digest (there are dozens of quirky characters and several subplots).  With that in mind, if you feel up to the task, it is more than well worth the effort.<br />While reading this book, I was constantly aware of the author's genius.  His ability to conceive and weave together intricate plots and carefully constructed characters into a cohesive, wildly entertaining story is mind-blowing.  Irving's previous books (Owen Meaney, The Cider House Rules, Garp, Hotel New Hampshire, etc.) and the subsequent Widow For One Year are all excellent reads, but all much tamer and far less intricate than the grand spectacle of Son of the Circus.  It is truly an amazing feat of fiction - a wonderful book with as many twists, surprises, and glimpses of the bizarre as one could ever hope for.  Irving's beautiful writing, outstanding background research, and vivid imagination make for a truly original story that haunted me for months after reading it.  Several years after reading it, I still harbor strong memories of Son of the Circus(and I have read dozens of books in the interim).  <br />This is a book to be read carefully - it makes an excellent vacation read, when the proper amount of time and attention can be paid.  If some of the other reviewers of Son of the Circus were disappointed with it, I suggest that they return to it and read every word with care - perhaps then they will understand John Irving's gift and what an intelligent and interesting book Son of the Circus is.  Don't miss it - books like this don't come along very often!	2000-11-02
US	53005856	R2CFMBR6P4DNG1	0446673544	656995955	Sex and the City	Books	1	6	8	N	Y	If People in New York Were Really Like This, I'd Move	While the HBO series &quot;Sex and the City is, as mentioned in a previous review, bright and funny, the book was a sad attempt to titillate the reader with boorish tales of the supposedly glamorous lives of pathetic, conceited nobodies languishing in their own misery. Bushnell's writing style is disjointed and elementary. The characters are patently obnoxious and predictable. A real yawn - I couldn't get through it. Very disappointing considering I was hoping for a fun vacation read. I would normally never promote TV over reading, but in this case - watch the show.	2000-10-25
US	53005856	R1TPK0GIOBRYTQ	1568496923	815704642	Animal Dreams	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Excellent , Thought-Provoking and Insightful	Like all of Ms. Kingsolver's books, Animal Dreams is so well written that you are accutely aware of the author's genius as you read. The characters are so well developed you can \\"feel\\" and \\"see\\" them. Intricate storylines are delicately and seamlessly woven together with beautiful prose, creating a \\"big picture\\" that is cohesive and thoroughly believeable. Without giving too much of the storyline away, Ms. Kingsolver's ability to subtly incorporate several social and political issues into her story - family relationships, Contras in Nicaragua, American Indians, ecology and corporate responsibility, to name a few - makes this book multidimensional. In my opinion, this is not Ms. Kingsolver's best book ... but she was well on her way to perfecting her incredible writing and storytelling skills while writing this book. It is an excellent, thought-provoking read.	2000-10-25
US	53005856	R1L3ZMUZ1X8V4G	0060175400	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Barbara Kingsolver is a Remarkably Gifted Writer	I generally do not read fiction, however, this book ranks among my all-time favorites.   Kingsolver's ability to portray several different characters in their own voice so separately and distinctly is remarkable (I  vehemently disagree with the &quot;white devil&quot; reviewer - perhaps  this person didn't clearly understand the book).  The story spans time and  personalities seamlessly and effortlessly. &quot;Poisonwood Bible&quot; is  one of those books that draws you in, holds your attention, and stays with  you. In many ways, Kingsolver's excellent writing style and ability to  weave a unique and thought-provoking story is reminscent of John Irving's  later work.  Kingsolver is truly one of our most gifted American writers.	2000-07-07
US	53005856	R3UZ2AG2HDD8AP	0385425473	378897199	Wild Swans: Three Daughters of China	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A fascinating, beautifully written, unforgettable true story	Wild Swans is the best account of the struggle Chinese women have endured through the generations that I have ever read.   Jung Chang is a truly  excellent writer with a gift for portraying the past.	1999-10-31
US	53005856	R2EC7C6VPBKEEP	0381980375	738240098	Imperial Woman	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Possibly the finest work by this extraordinary writer	A fascinating account of the life of China's last Empress, as seen through the eyes of our foremost writer of Chinese historical fiction.  While all of Buck's works are wonderful and vivid, Imperial Woman is truly one of her  very best.	1999-08-02
