US	53000821	R2YBIBW52XA10P	0743264894	162896373	No Place Like Home:  A Novel	Books	3	2	3	N	N	1st timers might enjoy but fans will be disappointed	I initially wanted to rate NPLH with only one or two stars.  However, I realized that might have been unfair since having read all of MHC's books, I am familiar with her plot structure, right down to identifying the villain, red herrings, and the heroine's ultimate love interest.  Fans will undoubtedly find NPLH formulaic although first time readers \\"might\\" not catch on.  I say \\"might\\" because some of the characters' actions are so bewildering, almost bordering on idiotic, that any mystery fan can tell what's coming by chapter five.  As another review noted, the heroine, Celia/Lizzie, keeps her traumatic childhood a secret from her second husband because of a deathbed wish she made to her first husband even though it could have repercussions on their new life together.  As farfetched as this is, it still might have been believable if Celia/Lizzie hadn't continued to keep the secret after her house is vandalized and murders take place.  The villain's motivation for committing the crimes is pretty flimsy and makes Celia/Lizzie seem all the more clueless than she already appeared throughout the novel. <br />(spoiler alert!) <br /> <br />Finally, while a happy ending is part of MHC's formula, the romance at the end of the epilogue feels contrived.  Exactly what is romantic about a suspect in a murder investigation?  Did sparks fly while Celia/Lizzie was being questioned?  Given her questionable choices of her first two husbands, a more credible ending would have been to follow up on how Celia/Lizzie regained her mental balance and came to terms with her past instead of remarrying and becoming a political wife.  There are lots of other plot twists that do not make sense either, but these examples should give you the general idea. <br /> <br />While I think it is time for MHC to surprise her fans by deviating from her formula, I know this is unlikely to happen.  Since she is a NYT bestselling author, there is probably no motivation to change (if it's not broke, don't fixit, etc.).  But in the next book, MHC should create a stronger and more intelligent heroine, a stronger plot, and a more compelling motive for the villain.	2005-04-24
US	53000821	R3UQ4FPMY32AFI	0060580534	977231281	Nemesis: The True Story of Aristotle Onassis, Jackie O, and the Love Triangle That Brought Down the Kennedys	Books	5	28	34	N	Y	Excellently researched and written book	I really can't add more praise to that which has already been posted, but I wanted to mention how thorough the research for the book was.  The author, Peter Evans, is very meticulous, as shown by his many footnotes where he cites sources or adds more information.  Given the fame, power, and wealth of the people who are the subject of the book, this was probably a legal necessity, but it adds a credibility to the book.  This makes the book's many revelations all the more shocking because in all likelihood they are probably true.   <br /> <br />I originally bought this book after reading Dominick Dunne's recommendation in Vanity Fair.  Now I have the same question Dunne did:  Why isn't this book getting more attention?  One would think the author would be making all the rounds on the tv shows and that there would be countless newspaper and magazine articles written about the book.  The only reason I can think why this hasn't happened is because relatives of the subjects of the book have exerted their power to create a virtual media blackout.  Given the scandalous and shocking revelations, I can't really say I blame them. <br /> <br />I highly recommend this book.  I look forward to the author's next one.	2005-03-27
US	53000821	R2QNIQ1NPKRHY5	0373250126	471365971	Milkrun	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Entertaining book but unlikable narrator	Like others stated in their posts, I read this book because I'd read and enjoyed \\"See Jane Date\\" and was looking forward to Red Ink's next book in the series.  Also like others have stated, I  too, felt this book was entertaining but did not measure up to \\"See Jane Date.\\"  Although the narrators of both books are about single twenty-somethings detailing their romantic adventures, the tones of the two books are entirely different and this is where \\"Milkrun\\" comes up short.<br />Jackie, the narrator of \\"Milkrun\\", comes across as mean-spirited, hostile, and shallow.  The first two emotions are understandable in the beginning of the book when she is dumped by her boyfriend, but it's perplexing why she is still acting like a rhymes-with-witch more than 3/4 through the book... Jackie is not nearly as likeable or as charming as Jane in \\"See Jane Date,\\" and reading about the vapid world of single women dating requires a more sympathetic character than is presented in \\"Milkrun.\\"  However, there are some genuinely funny scenes and lines, and the book is a fast read.   While \\"Milkrun\\" is a disappointing follow up to \\"See Jane Date,\\" it is a funny look at the singles scene from the perspective of a twenty-four year old.	2002-03-04
US	53000821	R3EJD6ERR9L5MZ	0446527130	118908960	Envy	Books	3	26	31	N	N	Satisfying Thriller	&quot;Envy&quot; is definitely a can't-put-down suspense thriller that contains a story within a story.  The main character, Parker Evans, is writing a book that Maris Matherly-Reed is editing.  The book that Parker is writing is the second story within &quot;Envy.&quot;  The reader is just as interested in the characters in Parker's novel, as in the romance that develops between Maris and Parker.  In the hands of a less capable writer, this could have wound up as a muddled mess.  However, Brown is able to keep the stories neatly paralelled, even as the two plots begin to converge, and the past that Parker's novel chronicles begins to catch up and engulf the present that he and Maris share.<br />&quot;Envy&quot; has a few flaws.  Besides being able to predict the ending, the villain in &quot;Envy&quot; is unduly evil, bordering on cartoonish.  While I won't give away his identity and risk revealing a key plot point for those who haven't read the novel, some of the villain's actions were unnecessarily cruel and without justification.  Maris's role in &quot;Envy&quot; is equally unclear.  When Parker lures her to a remote island in Georgia to edit his novel, it is apparent that he has ulterior motives and that Maris is part of some larger scheme of his.  While it can be understood the scheme might fall by the wayside when Parker falls in love with Maris, Brown doesn't really follow up on it, and has Parker briefly explain himself in a couple of sentences at the end of the book.  With all the suspense that the paralell stories had been building up to, the ending was kind of flat.  However, &quot;Envy&quot; is Brown's best book in the last three years and it will definitely keep you hooked until the end, where it mildly disappoints.	2001-09-30
US	53000821	R28Y9Z7B9N1M03	0399146725	839853850	The Jury	Books	2	8	9	N	N	Martini's off his usual assured stride with this book	Normally a huge fan of Steve Martini's legal thrillers, I found &quot;The Jury&quot; a huge disappointment.  Like the other reviewers, I am bewildered by the title because the jury plays little to no role in the story.  Martini doesn't even describe the voir dire, he just launches right into the trial.  It takes the reader a couple of chapters to catch up with what happened, which is very annoying.  Even then, it's still not clear why Paul Madriani would take on such a sullen, uncooperative client like Dr. Crone, who is on trial for the murder of one of his colleagues.  Even after it's revealed that Dr. Crone used his genius to try and save a dying child, his character is still unlikeable and weird.  The reader doesn't care whether he's the killer or not, and at times it seems like Martini doesn't either.  I have never read a book in this series where Madriani was as listless and uninvolved as he appeared in this book.  Even Harry Hinds, Madriani's law partner, who is usually wise-cracking and brilliant, is mouthy and blustery here.  Although red herrings are strewn throughout the novel, the killer's identity only comes as a mild surprise.  After reaching suspense pinnacles in &quot;Undue Influence&quot; and &quot;The Judge&quot;, this book is a real let down.  Let's hope that the next Madriani book is a better effort.	2001-09-23
US	53000821	R2ENE7704ME9D5	0399146008	157310859	Shock	Books	2	4	4	N	N	Not one of Cook's best works	&quot;Shock&quot; plays out like a very bad Charlie's Angels episode.  The fact that the two main characters, Deborah and Joanna, are two women who were educated at the country's most elite university in very challenging fields is simply not believable.  Their decision to donate their eggs doesn't merit careful consideration and thought, it is a spur of the moment decision motivated mainly by the desire to buy a condo and go to Italy for a year.  Similarly, their decision to track down their eggs a year and a half later is equally random.  Joanna is shocked when the clinic director won't tell her what happened to the eggs she donated, so she and  Deborah disguise themselves, steal id's, and go to work for the clinic where they donated the eggs.  There's no explanation given for why they want to know what happened to the eggs, so their decision to steal id's to work at the clinic is somewhat bewildering and lends a false tone to the rest of the book. <br />For the most part, everything about this book is just preposterous.  The way Deborah and Joanna stole the false identifications would never happen, and even more unlikely is their getting hired at the clinic.  A simple background check would have revealed their true identities easily.  The villains of &quot;Shock&quot; are so ridiculously cartoonish, I laughed out loud several times.  I don't the book was supposed to be humorous, but it is, uintentionally on Cook's part I'm sure.  Of the many incongruous plot turns, the most unbelievable one occurs when the lecherous clinic owner invites Deborah to dinner, and gets drunk so that's how Deborah and Joanna are able to swipe his key and gain access to the secret computer room.  From there they are able to divine all of the clinic's secrets and solve the mystery.  The ending is equally ridiculous and lame brained, though in fairness to Cook, it is no more out in left field than the rest of the book.<br />This is a bad book by anyone's standards, but it is especially disappointing coming from Robin Cook who has been my favorite medical thriller author in the past.  The only reason I didn't give the book one star is that his description of the preparation of the eggs for fertilization in the beginning of the book is written with his signature attention to detail and makes science fascinating.  Too bad the rest of the book is all down hill from there.	2001-09-23
US	53000821	R2KAWHDNXN1HE5	0312261594	724183614	Female Intelligence	Books	2	4	6	N	N	Paper thin plot + ridiculous premise = total waste of time	Even by lax beach read standards, &quot;Female Intelligence,&quot; is pretty bad.  John Gray, Dr. Phil, et. al. are subjects that are ripe for parody, but Jane Heller totally wastes the opportunity in her novel about a relationship / linguistics expert who is pretty cluless when it comes to her own relations with the opposite sex.  The problem is that there are several preposterous plot &quot;twists&quot; as the novel plods along.  Although Heller would have us believe that Lynn Wyman ranks up there nearly with Oprah or Joy Brown as a self-help celebrity, Lynn's reputation and business is all but destroyed by a relatively minor scandal.  The only way Lynn can restore her career to its former prominence is by taking on America's Worst Boss as a client.  Brandon Brock, is written by Heller as so boorish that he would likely be fending off sexual harassment suits, not seeking the advice of a linguistics expert to save his job.<br />The book jacket makes it appear as though the suspenseful nook of the novel is whether or not Lynn and Brock get together.  Since they are in bed a little more than half way through the book, there's little to no suspense left.  Oh yeah, someone from Lynn's inner circle not only broke up her marriage and threatens her relationship with Brock, and it is this so-called mystery that makes up the latter half of the book.  The revelation of the trouble maker and her reasons for doing so make no sense, but it is unlikely the reader will care by that point anyway.<br />This is not one of Jane Heller's better efforts.  Usually her novels have humorous and quick witted female narrators with plots, while not exactly suspenseful, at least keep your interest long enough to finish the book.  Sadly, none of these qualities are present in &quot;Female Intelligence.&quot;  Lynn Wyman is a clueless ninny who finds love with one her clients, a pig who was reformed by listening to Michael Bolton and memorizing fortune cookie sayings.  Maybe Heller's next novelwith be back up to the standards she established in &quot;Princess Charming&quot; or &quot;Sis-Boom-Bah.&quot;	2001-07-16
US	53000821	R13QO1DHU3WE0C	0525946039	149958128	Between Lovers	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Eric Jerome Dickey hits this one out of the park!	In his most sensitively written and fully realized novel, Eric Jerome Dickey reveals the complexities, jealousies, and raw emotions that make up most relationships.  Because he explores these themes through controversial venues, i.e. lesbianism and  threesomes, some readers might be put off by Dickey's latest novel.  For those who read \\"Between Lovers\\" in its entirety, they will be rewarded with one of the most honest and thought provoking novels of the year.<br />Abandoning the bizarre behavior that has characterized the females in his last books, Dickey creates in Ayanna and Nicole two very manipulative and confused, although not entirely unsympathetic women.  When Nicole frequently exhibits her I-want-my-cake-and-eat-it-too attitude, this is not unlike other typical romance novels where a female character has to choose between love and money.  However here, Nicole is faced with the choice between a conventional life with the male narrator, whom she loves, that stays within socially accepted norms; or does she continue her relationship with Ayanna, whom she loves, but it means an estrangement from her mother and giving up the hope of a normal family life.  For some, this would be an easy, simple choice, but Dickey movingly portrays Nicole's anguish, and the reader can't help being moved as well.<br />The one flaw with \\"Between Lovers\\" is that Dickey makes his male narrator a put-upon victim, who seemingly has no flaws except to fall in love with a woman who can't make up her mind.  However, the sensitivity with which his and Nicole's and Ayanna's dilemma is written more than makes up for this minor annoyance.  While the narrator's, Nicole's, and Ayanna's particular problem is an unusual and an unenviable one, Dickey shows that petty jealousy and being in love with two people at the same time are universal emotions that anyone can identify with.	2001-07-13
US	53000821	R1JSPBHJN4V165	0316381950	314618994	Equivocal Death: A Novel	Books	2	6	10	N	N	Tepid legal thriller	&quot;Equivocal Death&quot; by Amy Gutman is the latest entry in the legal mystery genre, and the book does nothing to allay the sneaking suspicions that the genre may have peaked.  There is absolutely nothing new or original here.  <br />The main character, Kate Paine, is a Harvard Law graduate who works at a prestigious Manhattan law firm, or so the author tells you a hundred times.  Perhaps Gutman keeps repeating where Kate went to law school in order to prove Kate is smart in spite of the character's ditzy behavior and general cluelessness.  Even though Kate is supposedly a brilliant and ambitious attorney, 40% of the book is spent reading about Kate's whining about a romance that failed two years ago and obsessing about a new romance that her best friend is striking up with another woman.  Another 30% of the book is spent on useless red herrings that do not add any suspense because they have nothing whatsoever to do with the plot.  <br />The final 30% of the book deals with the murder of Madeleine Waters, a female partner in the firm where Kate works.  Because Madeleine is killed off early on in the book, and there are only a few pages in the book devoted to her, no attachment is formed to the character and her death has no impact.  Madeleine wasn't particularly well known or well liked by any of the other characters, so the plot has no choice but to go steadily downhill after she dies, which unfortunately is on page 46, and the book is 352 pages long.  As another reviewer noted, Kate doesn't really solve the mystery here.  The killer spells out in great detail why he killed Madeleine, as well as another person, but the reasons itself do not make any sense and neither does the killer's identity.  It's as if Gutman pulled a character's name out of a hat and then set about making up reasons why the person did it.<br />While I have definitely read worse legal thrillers, I can't recommend &quot;Equivocal Death.&quot;  The nonsensical plot and the bird-brained Harvard law educated main character made this book a chore to finish.	2001-06-27
US	53000821	RJZEQ1HLRMCSF	0743206029	362049018	On the Street Where You Live: A Novel	Books	4	7	7	N	N	One of the summer's better beach reads	If you are an avid reader of Mary Higgins Clark, like I am, then &quot;On the Street Where You Live&quot; will hold few surprises.  Once again, we have a single, career oriented female who is confronted with a series of puzzling events that, once she starts to tie them together, endanger her life.  As usual, Clark delivers no less than 5 credible suspects, but the killer will not shock someone who is familiar with the author's style and can see through the red herrings.  <br />That said, the book is an excellent beach read and has a final twist at the end that will linger with the reader long after the last page is finished.  Like &quot;Before I Say Good-bye,&quot; Clark's latest deals with the paranormal, this time the possibility of reincarnation and how crimes in past lives can be repeated or avenged in the present.  Fortunately, Clark doesn't let the speculation of whether or not reincarnation exists impede her plot.  It simply deepens the mystery surrounding the murders of three young that took place in the 1890s and their connection to three murders of three young women that took place in the present day.  <br />Mary Higgins Clark has crafted a suspenseful and tightly plotted mystery that may not rank among her best, but is definitely one of the better beach reads of the summer.	2001-05-22
US	53000821	R139XWJ1Q0T8NY	0316666009	30029813	1st to Die (Women's Murder Club)	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Gripping thriller that's short on character development	Perhaps it is unfair to do so, but I always end up comparing James Patterson's other novels with his Alex Cross series, &quot;Roses are Red&quot;, et al.  I say it is unfair to do this because his other novels always come up short, and &quot;1st To Die&quot; is no exception.  For sure, it is a page turner that has a couple of genuine surprises, but it is lacking the heart found in the Alex Cross series.  <br />Lindsay Boxer is supposed to be a world weary, seen-it-all-done-it-all homicide detective, but she acts like a giggly preteen when it comes to describing her new romance with her partner or when she is planning to meet with &quot;the girls.&quot;  Yes, this how a 34 yr old detective, describes her professional colleagues, a crime reporter, a medical examiner, and a Stanford educated asst. district attorney.  Drawn together by a serial killer who focuses on newlyweds, the &quot;girls&quot; all meet in order to brainstorm and work outside of the system.  However, there is no good reason given for why they can't work inside the system, and in the end Lindsay pieces together most of the mystery by herself.  Perhaps the &quot;girls&quot; are a commercial hook to establish the series, and in the next book we'll hear from Claire,  Jill, and Cindy a little more.<br />The romance Linday has with her partner, Raleigh, is perfunctory and totally lacking in chemistry.  Perhaps it was the only way Patterson could establish some feminity for Lindsay, because you would not be able to tell she was a female character otherwise.  Her illness, Negli's aplastic anemia, similarly feels feels tacked on, and although Lindsay has several good cries over it, it doesn't really elicit any emotional response from the reader because it's not integral to the plot and doesn't humanize Lindsay in any way.<br />The strengths of &quot;1st to Die&quot; lie its plot and excellent pacing.  It's an excellent beach read, and it keeps the reader hooked, although this is to be expected from Patterson.  If this series is going to rival the Alex Cross series, more work must be done in not only developing Lindsay's character, but making the other &quot;girls&quot; more than mere cut out figures whose only purpose appears to be nothing more than advancing the plot.	2001-03-28
US	53000821	R1UJC68QYMY4ES	0688175899	752446232	White Coat: Becoming A Doctor At Harvard Medical School	Books	2	6	9	N	Y	A not-so-revealing account of a med student's life	As an aspiring doctor, I was hoping to get the same insight out of &quot;White Coat&quot; that a future lawyer would gleam from Scott Turow's &quot;One L.&quot;  However, the difference between the two is that Turow has a genuine gift for writing, while Rothman's account of her medical school is a very dry &quot;just-the-facts-ma'am&quot; style.  It was a chore to finish the book, and I still have no idea what makes Rothman's experience at Harvard any different than John Doe's medical training at the University of Maine.  <br />There were several problems with this book.  Like the other reviewers noted, Rothman's characterization of people by their appearance was distracting, bordering on offensive.  It's as if she mistakes physical description for insight.  Descriptions of patients' ailments and suffering that should have drawn the reader in are presented in as cold and impersonal a manner as a medical chart.   Who knows, maybe that's where Rothman drew her memories of the encounters.  Finally, there is the author herself.  In an attempt to personalize the book, Rothman details her romance with one of her fellow classmates.  Again, the details are presented in a vague and sketchy.  After three or four luxury vacations, boom, they're engaged.  The reader never gets a sense of what Carlos is like, or the challenges of nurturing and maintaining a relationship under demanding circumstances.  As a result, Rothman's account of her relationship and subsequent engagement rings false, even though this is supposedly a nonfiction book.<br />I have friends in medical school, and their terse emails and brief, infrequent phone conversations give me more insight into the life of a medical student than this book did.  Rothman doesn't give the reader a true sense of what a medical student's life is like.  There are only biased descriptions of the patients she encountered in the different specialty rotations broken up by occasional updates of her uninteresting romance with one of her classmates.	2001-03-06
US	53000821	R392SVGYX6K7H0	0399146253	109258524	The Last Precinct (A Scarpetta Novel)	Books	4	25	31	N	N	Cornwell returns to bestselling form	&quot;The Last Precinct&quot; is a return to form of the Kay Scarpetta that her fans know and love.  This is definitely Patricia Cornwell's best book since &quot;Cruel and Unusual&quot;, my favorite in the Kay Scarpetta series.  The only thing that prevents a five star rating is that the first third of the book is bogged down in Kay's introspection.  Granted, Kay was nearly murdered by a serial killer, and is having trouble coming to grips with the fact that she is a victim herself instead of tending to them, but a depressed and paranoid Kay is not a pleasant one to read about.  <br />Judging from the other reviews of Cornwell's books, other readers have shared my frustration as Cornwell has strayed from the series' strengths, tight plotting, spooky atmosphere, unbelievable suspense, and concentrated on Kay's and Lucy's personal lives instead.  The beginning of the book starts out that way, with Kay staying at Anna's, her psychiatrist friend's, house and reflecting on her past.  The action gets bogged down as  Anna questions Kay about her relationship with Benton, her feelings about sex, and her inability to deal truthfully with her emotions.  Once the reader gets past all of that, she is rewarded with an unparalleled suspense tale whose chilling effects will linger long after the book is finished.<br />Many questions are satisfyingly resolved in &quot;The Last Precinct.&quot;  Many loose ends regarding Benton and Diane Bray are explained.  Unlike some of her other recent books that were a chore to finish, this one keeps the reader hooked right up until the very end.  This book may be a frustrating one for a first time reader, but followers of the series should be immensely pleased.   The best part of the book was Kay was caught in a house of mirrors, and had no idea who to trust, not even her longtime sidekick Marino.  There are some lingering questions at the end of the book, the usual way that Cornwell segues into the sequel.  Hopefully, the next Scarpetta book will be as entertaining as &quot;The Last Precinct&quot; was.  This is definitely the kind of writing that made Cornwell a best selling author in the first place.	2000-10-30
US	53000821	RIQJQ6EPQ2TSL	0684871440	830045435	Blind Ambitions: A Novel	Books	3	4	5	N	N	An Insider's Look at Hollywood from an African American POV	&quot;Blind Ambitions&quot; gives a thorough, believable account of what Hollywood is like from not only the actor's viewpoint, but the writers', producers', and developers' as well.  Most books about Hollywood focus on the troubles of actors, but Lolita Files makes the case that the people behind the scenes have an equally hard time as well.  <br />Primarily narrated by African-American characters, &quot;Blind Ambitions&quot; details the struggles of three African-American women, an actress, a producer, and a secretary who wants to be a producer, trying to succeed in Hollywood, where the power structure is dominated by White people.  Files gives vivid accounts of how a television series is developed, along with all of the manipulations, lies, and power plays involved.  This is where &quot;Blind Ambitions&quot; succeeds, making it a must-read for anyone wanting to work in the entertainment industry.  <br />Files is less successful at creating a plot, which includes a laughable mystery that has nothing to do with the main action in the book, and feels tacked on.  Also, some of the characters motivations are inexplicable, and no follow up explanation is ever provided.  For instance, Randall pursues Desi quite eagerly, nearly to the point of begging, to play the main character in his new television series, even though Desi is a washed up actress.  Although it is hinted that Randall has more than a professional interest in Desi, it is never made apparent to the reader, and nothing ever comes of it.  There are several other similar loose ends in the book that makes it less than satisfying as a complete story.  However, the book's main draw is the insight it gives into the machinations of Hollywood, something you don't read about in People magazine or see on Entertainment Tonight.  It is for this reason that &quot;Blind Ambitions&quot; is well worth reading.	2000-10-23
US	53000821	R37BE7XJIKQVWX	0786866195	552612505	Buried Evidence	Books	2	12	13	N	N	A flawed and unnecessary sequel	Even though the loose threads were not tightly knotted at the end of Nancy Taylor Rosenberg's superior &quot;Mitigating Circumstances,&quot; the book's ending hardly merited a sequel.  Maybe the author felt the need to return to her best written and plotted effort.  Unfortunately, Rosenberg comes up far short of what &quot;Mitigating Circumstances&quot; accomplished.  <br />&quot;Buried Evidence&quot; is a very flawed book, starting with the fact that none of the characters are particularly sympathetic, even though the main character, Lily and her daughter, Shana, have experienced a horrible tragedy that no person should have to go through.  But Lily comes across as a shrill bully, and Shana is portrayed as a narcissistic brat.  Lily's nemesis, her ex-husband John, is written as such a one-dimensional villain, that when he meets his demise, the reader is left wondering &quot;What took so long?&quot;  Equally underwritten is Lily's lover, Richard, who is still pining for her even though six years have passed, and he has been living with another woman for three of them. It makes no sense.  Rosenberg simply asks the reader to accept that Lily and Richard are madly in love, and that Richard would do anything for Lily. although there is nothing about Lily's neurotic personality that would back Richard's feelings up.<br />Rosenberg is a talented writer, and I know because I've read better books by her, &quot;Interests of Justice&quot; and &quot;Mitigating Circumstances&quot; being two of them.  I like the fact that her heroines aren't conventional rich, flawless skinned heiresses who don't have a problem in the world except for a stalker/in love with another man/can't have a baby/etc.  Her main characters struggle with overwhelming problems, like coping with a convicted rapist being on the loose, along with the mundane ones, like not being able to pay the car note or the credit card bills.  These types of characters are Rosenberg's trademark, and one can only hope that she returns back to them soon, along with a better plot and more compelling storyline.	2000-10-16
US	53000821	R2QJ5E8JIP1WD4	0446527033	213222268	The Switch	Books	3	23	25	N	N	Good, if not entirely successful, effort from Sandra Brown	Sandra Brown is one of the more skilled writers in the romantic suspense genre, capable of coming up with mysteries that keep you guessing until the last minute with more than a fair share of steamy sex scenes.  While &quot;The Switch&quot; is much better than her last book &quot;The Alibi&quot;, it still does not rank up there with &quot;The Witness&quot; or &quot;Exclusive.&quot;  The latter two books had genuine &quot;gotcha&quot; endings, that threw the reader unexpected curve.  Anyone who has read a mystery involving twins and exchanged identities can probably guess how &quot;The Switch&quot; ends.  <br />That said, Brown's tale maintains suspense as Melina tries to figure out exactly what was the motive behind Gillian's murder, and who was responsible.  Brown is also to be commended for creating a Native American leading man in Chief and giving historical background on the past, current, and future struggles of the Native Americans.  Their plight is treated with respect, and is successfully incorporated into the plot.  The chemistry between Chief and Melina feels forced at times, and because of that the romance between the characters is not that convincing.  The sex scenes, revealed mostly through flashbacks by Chief, is the only time when the two seemed connected and bonded.<br />As some other readers have noted, the book is a little long and the plot suffers for it, making &quot;The Switch&quot; a chore to finish in some parts of the book.  However, this is definitely one of Sandra Brown's better efforts and hopefully it indicates she is returning to the style of some of her more suspenseful and tightly paced novels.	2000-10-08
US	53000821	RWLCIHXBE24L7	0671034057	562966780	Now You See Her	Books	4	15	15	N	Y	Read it for the romance, not the suspense	This is the second Linda Howard book I've read in as many days, and again, I am impressed with the chemistry she is able to generate between her main characters.  It would have been very easy to make Sweeney into a helpless waif who was not able to cope with the psychic phenomena she was witnessing, and to make Richard a one dimensional knight to the rescue of a damsel in distress.  Instead, Sweeney is an independent character who wants to deal with the disturbing violent visions she gets on her own.  Richard sees himself as a knight, but is attracted to Sweeney's beauty and spirit, not her temporary helplessness.  The evolving relationship between Sweeney and Richard proceeds quickly and is described in erotic detail by Linda Howard.  The most suspense in the novel resolves around Sweeney's and Richard's relationship:  Will he get his divorce from the manipulative Candra?  Will he and Sweeney be able to wait until the divorce before they consummate their relationship?  These questions are much more intriguing than the questions that surround the so called mystery of Sweeney's visions.  She not only sees dead people, she paints them too.  When one of Sweeney's visions hits close to home, it is fairly obvious how the plot will be resolved.  Linda Howard apparently has no need for red herrings, so the mystery of &quot;Now You See Her&quot; is flat, if not non-existent.  However, the relationship between Sweeney and Richard is the real reason to read this book because their growing attraction for each is what drives the plot.	2000-10-06
US	53000821	RLNY7UXHCP5F5	0688172032	616949727	The Day John Died	Books	2	16	16	N	N	Scant Account of JFK Jr.'s life	As has been stated in the other reviews, &quot;The Day John Died&quot; is not so much about the day JFK Jr. died, though there is a whole chapter  dedicated to it, as it is about his entire life.  However, half the book  concerns his parents' lives more so than JFK Jr.'s.  I realize that is is  impossible to talk about JFK Jr. without talking about his father, the  President, or his mother, the glamorous first lady, because that context is  needed in order to understand John Jr.'s life.  Yet this book somehow feels  like a retread of Andersen's other book, &quot;Jackie After Jack.&quot;   Intimate details of Jackie's marriage to Onassis are inexplicably included  in &quot;The Day John Died&quot; and do not  help shed any light on what  John Jr. was like.<br />When Andersen finally gets around to JFK Jr.'s story  in the last third of the book, the portrait of a genial, sexy, if somewhat  dim man emerges.  Andersen shows that because JFK Jr. was unfazed by his  celebrity and sought to be ordinary like those around him, these traits  made him even more popular.  There is the requisite list of all the women  JFK Jr. dated, including Madonna, but there is only a sketchy description  of the woman he finally settled down with, Carolyn Bessette.  When Carolyn  was alive, she was enigmatic and she remains so after reading this book.   Andersen vaguely refers to Carolyn and JFK Jr. having problems, mainly  concerning starting a family and the media's effect on their marriage.  But  no new information is given as to exactly how these two met, what kept them  together, and ultimately, would JFK Jr. and Carolyn have stayed  together.<br />This book was a bit of a letdown after Andersen's excellent  &quot;The Day Diana Died&quot;, which gave more insight and detail into its  story.  However, this book gives some insight into the private life of JFK  Jr. as well, although it is nothing you could not have read in People  magazine.	2000-08-28
US	53000821	R302X4B2X49GWR	0399145362	418239112	The Attorney (Paul Madriani, Book 5)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Welcome return of Paul Madriani	Steve Martini has finally returned to his Paul Madriani series and not a  moment too soon. Paul, and his law partner, Harry Hinds, are two of the  most endearing characters in any legal thriller.  While &quot;The  Attorney&quot; does not measure up to previous Martini books like  &quot;Undue Influence&quot;, it is still a worthwhile read.  <br />Paul and  his daughter move to southern California to be closer to Paul's new  girlfriend, and Harry follows to set up a new practice there.  Paul is soon  retained by Jonah Hale to help find Jonah's granddaughter who was snatched  from his custody by Jonah's daughter.  What seems to be a clear-cut, if not  easily resolved case soon escalates to murder and Paul decides to represent  Jonah in court.  <br />There are excellent descriptions of Paul's southern  California locale, right down to certain street names.  This tediousness  detracts from the action somewhat.  But like some of the other reviews  noted, the killer is quite obvious less than halfway through the book.  It  is a mystery (excuse the pun) why a writer as skilled as Martini would give  a clue as to the killer's identity that all but reaches out and slaps the  reader across the face.  This aside, &quot;The Attorney&quot; is tightly  paced thriller that is suspenseful despite knowing who the killer is early  on in the book.  Martini is a writer that is among the ranks of Scott Turow  and Richard North Patterson, and it is good to finally see him returning to  the legal thriller genre where he writes best.	2000-08-28
US	53000821	R3ONVXL6UNNH9O	0684850311	908288948	Lethal Seduction	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Best Jackie Collins effort in a while	I have been hooked on Jackie Collins ever since reading &quot;Hollywood Wives&quot; when I was 12.  Her books in the nineties have been sort of a  letdown, but it looks as if Collins is hitting her stride again with her  latest novel, &quot;Lethal Seduction.&quot;  As usual, she has a strong  female character in Madison Castelli, although she is not in the same  league as some of Collins's other female characters, most notably, Lucky  Santangelo.  Madison is a bit of a flake compared to Lucky, moping about a  boyfriend who left her for another woman TWO YEARS ago.  I'm used to  Collins's characters shrugging off slight disappointments like that and  moving on to the next male victim.  However, this does not detract from the  fun of &quot;Lethal Seduction&quot;, which is a genuine page turner with  fun characters and sharp writing.<br />There are several plotlines going on at  once and all of them are equally intriguing.  Madison finds out that the  woman she thought was her mother really isn't, and that the father she  adores isn't the man who she thinks he is.  Her best friend Jamie is blond  and has the perfect life except that she thinks her Wall Street husband is  cheating on her.  In another part of New York, Rosarita is tired of her  boytoy husband, and when he refuses to divorce her, Rosarita asks her  father with rumored Mob connections to kill him (!).  All of the different  plotlines come together in a climax centered around a Las Vegas  fight.<br />Collins has produced a classic beach read which is both  suspenseful and hilarious.  There are some loose ends that aren't resolved  at the end of the book, but there will probably be a sequel.  If the sequel  is as well written as &quot;Lethal Seduction&quot; it will certainly be  welcomed and anticipated.	2000-08-28
US	53000821	RSBX6UK2HK96D	0375502955	197934308	A Vast Conspiracy: The Real Story of the Sex Scandal That Nearly Brought Down a President	Books	3	9	17	N	N	Nothing new to read here.	This is a detailed, thoroughly researched account of the events that led up to President Clinton's impeachment, and the backgrounds and motivations of the people who brought it about.  Unfortunately, there is scant new  information in the book for political and news junkies, like myself.   Anyone who read the newspapers, magazines like &quot;Newsweek&quot; or  &quot;Time&quot;, will see &quot;Vast Conspiracy&quot; as a retread over  old material.  <br />Some of Toobin's characterizations of the people in the  book are hilarious, like when he describes Lucianne Goldberg as a creature  out of the bar in the Star Wars movie.  Toobin also accurately assesses the  consequences of the actions of some of the players.  No matter how odious  it seems, Linda Tripp's advice to Monica Lewinsky to save the stained dress  was what helped bring about Clinton's &quot;confession&quot; to their  affair.  Otherwise, Clinton might have gone on denying that he even knew  Monica Lewinsky.<br />This book was somewhat of a let down after reading  Toobin's excellent book about O.J. Simpson, &quot;The Ride of His  Life.&quot;  In that book, Toobin gave more background into both the city  of Los Angeles and its inhabitants.  True, the people in Los Angeles were  probably more colorful, and thus more interesting to write about.  However,  at best in &quot;Vast Conspiracy&quot;, the people come across as sketchy,  and hardly anything was said about the city of Washington, D.C. at all.   Toobin would have done well to explore why there was such a difference  between Clinton's high popularity poll numbers, and the insistence of the  D.C. media that he was on his way out.  Now THAT would have made &quot;Vast  Conspiracy&quot; a worthwhile read.	2000-07-21
US	53000821	RT02CGYSWJ59L	0525944834	75400210	Liar's Game	Books	3	38	48	N	N	An entertaining beach read but not much else...	Eric Jerome Dickey is a gifted writer who is able to capture the reader through both his snappy dialogue and his vivid, memorable characters.  His niche is exploring relations between African-American men and women, and  it's something that started with &quot;Sister, Sister&quot; and has built  up to &quot;Liar's Game.&quot;  In the acknowledgements of &quot;Liar's  Game&quot; the author claims in that he has tried to create an entirely new  set of characters.  However readers of his previous books will recognize  Dana as a thinly disguised version of Chante from &quot;Cheaters&quot;, who  herself was a thinly disguised version of Shelby from &quot;Friends and  Lovers.&quot;  All three women are self-centered, extremely unlikable women  whose behavior at best is bizarre, and at worst is psychotic.  Seeing this  type of character in one book was fine, two books was irritating, but now  three books is outrageous.  The only purpose this character seems to serve  is to shore up the theory that a good black man can't catch a break no  matter how hard he tries.  Unfortunately, Vince, the male character in  &quot;Liar's Game&quot; only comes across as weak and indecisive.  His and  Dana's relationship is full of drama, and even given an author's flair for  exaggeration, their decision to stay together is not at all convincing, as  they say and do some terrible things to each other.<br />However, this book is  a fast read and is entertaining in parts.  The reader does come to care  about the outcome and is eager to see how things turn out.  However, for  his next book, the author might want to serious think about getting out of  the good-black-man-witchy-black-woman rut he's created for himself.	2000-07-13
US	53000821	R3QS0K6TTKGH1X	0804119007	80471308	Dead Certain (Kate Millholland Novel)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Not the best entry in the Kate Milholland series	I have read all the books in the Kate Milholland series, and the problems in this book is the same as the one that plague other books in the series.  Because the main character is intriguing, and Gini Hartzmark maintains  Kate's mystique, I have continued to read the books in this series.   However, other characters are seriously underdeveloped.  For example,  someone very close to Kate dies midway through the book, but a newcomer to  the series will merely see it as a plot device.  Another problem is that  Hartzmark spends too much time detailing the financial transactions of the  cases she is working on, which ultimately has nothing to do with the  mystery itself, a series of unexplained deaths at Prescott Memorial  Hospital, which itself is about to be sold to an HMO.  Kate, a corporate  lawyer, is working on an internet buyout, which Hartzmark spends a lot of  time explaining.  However, the only connection between it and the mystery  is that Kate's client has a heart attack and ends up at Prescott Memorial.   Thankfully, Kate has stopped waffling between lovers and has finally chosen  one.  However, his character too, is underdeveloped and Hartzmark doesn't  show why the two are attracted to each other.  Kate Milholland has the  makings of being a top tier mystery character, up there with Kay Scarpetta  and Kinsey Milhone.  Hartzmark should focus more on her characters and a  tighter plot and plausible endings for her mysteries rather than getting  bogged down in financial and business details.	2000-06-24
US	53000821	R3CQ6KL1PACFQL	0375754652	866388765	Princeton Review: Best Medical Schools, 2000 Edition	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Insight into medical school beyond grades and MCAT scores	The Princeton Review's book not only gives the average MCAT score and GPA for accepted medical students, but it also gives a description of what the medical school itself is like.  There is information about student life,  percentage of minorities and women, housing, and the way the medical  classes themselves are structured.  There is not that much concrete  information about how to gain acceptance, but this book is worthwhile for  those who want to know more about the school than the numbers it takes to  get admitted.	2000-06-23
US	53000821	R3F82FF8R5N3K8	0966394402	71587214	Applying to Medical School for the Non-Traditional Student	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Great insight into different routes to medical school	This is not a book that tells you how to gain acceptance into medical school, or what kind of MCAT score or GPA you should have.  It is a collection of interviews with different people who all decided to go to  medical school after they had completed their undergraduate degree.  As a  nontraditional prospective medical applicant, I enjoyed reading how other  people came to the decision to go to medical school and how they went about  it.  It would have been nice if the author had interviewed people at  different schools.  The majority of the people in the book went to  Northwestern Medical School and did their post-bac premed work at Loyola.   However, the author does interview an interesting mix of people, and each  one of their stories is unique.  Again, this book is only for those who  want to read interviews about people who have already gone through the  application process and been accepted to medical school.  There is scant  information on how to get admitted yourself.	2000-06-23
US	53000821	R45NNWW5FFLHU	0684835983	728320796	Before I Say Good-Bye	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Mary Higgins Clark's best in years!	I thought Mary Higgins Clark was developing the John Grisham syndrome, i.e. simply churning out books for the sake of a multi-million dollar contract.  Her last two books, &quot;We'll Meet Again&quot; and  &quot;Moonlight Becomes You&quot; were formulaic, implausible, and boring.   However, Clark seems to have returned to form with &quot;Before I Say  Goodbye.&quot;  The characters are about as developed as you can expect  from any of her mysteries, but this time Clark makes the plot tighter, and  as a result, the book is more suspenseful.  I can honestly say that I was  kept guessing right up until the last few chapters.  Clark's trademark of  having many characters and varied plotlines is present, but it works to the  book's advantage, although the romance between the main character and the  doctor seemed a bit forced.  For fans of Mary Higgins Clark, like me, who  have been disappointed with her last books, &quot;Before I Say  Goodbye&quot; is a return of the best of the Clark style we know and love.	2000-06-13
US	53000821	R3OSSK7HO2EZNM	0684810484	966435098	And Never Let Her Go : Thomas Capano: The Deadly Seducer	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Outstanding true crime thriller	&quot;...And Never Let Her Go&quot; is an excellent true crime novel based on the real life murder of Anne Marie Fahey by her lover, Thomas Capano.  The case drew national attention because Anne Marie was the scheduling  secretary for the governor of Delaware.  Although I remember reading about  the crime in the newspaper and some magazines, Ann Rule's book gives  additional insight into what led up to the crime, how the police tracked  down the killer, and the subsequent trial.  Indepth interviews with the  Fahey family and Thomas Capano's other lover, Debby McIntyre, give welcome  insight into Anne Marie and Thomas Capano, and allows the reader to see how  vulnerable and susceptible Anne Marie was to Capano's manipulations.   Rule's book can be enjoyed by those who kept up with the case through the  media, and those who may not have heard anything about Anne Marie's murder.	1999-12-28
US	53000821	R2DUM54VRCI08Y	0804118299	385035562	Rough Trade	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A stale entry into the Kate Milholland series	While Rough Trade is not awful (hence the three star review), the author has produced better books in the Kate Milholland series.  Even though the slow-as-molasses subplot of who Kate loves FINALLY picks up a little steam,  the main plot of the book is convoluted.  It does not help that the author  does not give us enough insight or background into the book's supporting  characters.  Perhaps she thinks because she kills most of them off that the  reader will not care.  While these are annoying flaws in the book, the  series overall is enjoyable.  As for this book,  the author keeps up the  speedy pace of a mystery thriller and obviously has done her homework about  football team ownership and the corporate politics it involves.   &quot;Bitter Business&quot; is a better read in the series, but &quot;Rough  Trade&quot; will do for now.	1999-12-22
US	53000821	R1RGMUNSIEUHZ4	0446606243	58879561	The Tenth Justice	Books	1	11	13	N	N	Poor excuse for a legal thriller	I wanted to like this book for two reasons.  First, I am a fan of the legal thriller genre and have been ever since I first read &quot;The Firm&quot; by John Grisham.  Second, I am interested in the law, especially  in the inner workings of the Supreme Court.  &quot;The Tenth Justice&quot;  let me down on both counts.  The plot is both inconsistent and nonsensical,  especially as to how it relates to the Supreme Court.  The supporting  characters are paper thin and the main character is unsympathetic.  The  author wants us to believe they are the best and the brightest, but for the  most part, they all act like a bunch of self-centered ninnies.  I agree  with the other reviews that say it borders on misogynist the way the author  writes the female clerk.  It was a chore to even finish the book, and I did  not come away with either the satisfaction of a good thriller or any  further insight into what it is like to be a Supreme Court Clerk.  With  such a promising premise, this book could have been a lot more.  I can only  hope that maybe someone else will write a satisfactory thriller about  Supreme Court clerks.	1999-12-08
