US	53007016	R1RWPH8CKYBP92	0193113163	582780522	The New Oxford Companion to Music (2 Vols)	Books	5	29	29	N	N	The Most Desirable Edition of This Book	I've been comparing The New Oxford Companion to Music, ed. Denis Arnold (1983; 2 volumes, 2,017 pages) with the latest edition:  The Oxford Companion to Music, ed. Alison Latham (2002; 1,434 pages).  In the estimable series of Oxford Companions you can usually expect the new edition to supersede and replace the old one.  In this case, however, it's not that simple.  A glance at the above reveals that the new edition, in one volume, is some 583 pages shorter than the preceding edition, in two volumes.  Losing almost 600 pages of 2,000 represents a very substantial loss of material.   <br /> <br />Moreover, when we examine the two editions, we discover that the 1983 edition is lavishly, indeed beautifully, illustrated (\\"1,100 halftone illustrations and line drawings, 405 music examples\\").  None of the illustrations are in color, but there is an abundance of well-chosen, functional, illuminating photos, portraits, paintings, manuscripts, figures, line drawings, plates, tables, musical examples.  The new edition of 2002, alas, has virtually eschewed illustration:  almost all of the illustrations of the 1983 edition have been scrapped.  We get a comparative handful of musical examples and figures, but just about everything else has been eliminated; even the greatest composers aren't represented by a single likeness, whereas in the 1983 edition even lesser composers get a photo or portrait.  If for example you want to understand what an accordion is, there is no substitute for a picture of one.  The 1983 edition has a 4-page entry on \\"accordion,\\" with photos of four different types (including a musician playing one), plus 2 explanatory diagrams.  The 2002 edition has a page-length entry with no illustrative material at all.  I find this a significant loss, a significant cheapening of the book, and a significant diminution in the pleasure of using it.  It's revealing that Alison Latham, the 2002 editor, refers to the \\"wealth of illustrative material\\" as one of the assets of Denis Arnold's 1983 edition, but makes no mention of the fact that she has thrown out almost all of it.   <br /> <br />But that's not all.  If for example we look up \\"organ\\" in the 1983 edition, we find a truly comprehensive 20-page entry, with 20 illustrations (plates, figures, tables, drawings, photos).  In the 2002 edition we find a 6-page entry with 8 figures; this represents a radical abridgment of the earlier article. <br /> <br />Could \\"organ\\" be an unhappy fluke?  No, unfortunately it's not.  I looked up \\"trumpet,\\" \\"violin,\\" and \\"piano,\\" and found the same result in each case:  a truly drastic loss of material, both text and illustration, in the new edition.   <br /> <br />If you look up any of the hundred standard repertory operas in the 1983 edition, you find the basic facts about composer, librettist, and premiere, plus a synopsis of the action, and often an apt illustration and \\"Further Reading\\" suggestions.  If you look up any of the same operas in the 2002 edition, you find a very short entry (Carmen, for example, gets three lines; Tristan und Isolde gets two lines) giving the basic facts about composer, librettist, premiere--no synopsis, no illustration, no reading list.   <br /> <br />So you can see why the 2002 edition of this book was received with reservation, indeed with downright disappointment, by those who were familiar with the 1983 edition.  Why would Oxford UP have made such Draconian changes?  Well, the governing perception seems to have been that the 1983 edition, lavishly illustrated and in two volumes, had outgrown its purpose and over-reached its market.  Evidently many found the two-volume format cumbersome and too expensive.  The 2002 edition, by eliminating almost all of the illustrations and reducing the size to a single volume, has cheapened and abridged the book, rendered it much less attractive, and in many areas reduced its usefulness, but has made it handier and more affordable.   <br /> <br />Does the 2002 edition have no redeeming qualities, then, but cheapness and one-volume convenience?  Indeed it does have its virtues.  For one, it's up-to-date.  A blurb on its dustcover breathlessly claims, \\"Now, thirty years after the last edition, this invaluable companion is back in a completely new edition\\"--a barefaced falsehood:  the period between the two editions was 19 years, not 30.  But the new edition benefits from the scholarship of the last two decades; many new and updated articles (\\"over 1,000 new entries\\") reflect the perspective of 2002.  Many articles conclude with mini-bibliographies (in both editions), and these are inevitably more current and useful in the 2002 edition.   <br /> <br />Perhaps the most valuable feature of the new edition is the inclusion for the first time of entries not just for composers but for distinguished performing musicians.  In the 1983 (and earlier) edition, there were no entries for conductors, singers, instrumentalists.  In the 2002 edition you'll find entries for Toscanini, Walter, Furtwangler, Caruso, Melba, Ponselle, Melchior, Flagstad, Callas, Heifetz, Casals, Artur Rubinstein, Horowitz, Segovia, Dennis Brain, and many others.  This change was overdue and certainly enhances the usefulness of the book.  Many of the \\"over 1,000 new entries\\" in the 2002 edition are in this category.  \\"Space limitations have restricted these [entries] to artists who are no longer alive and who had significant influence on composition or performance.\\"  These entries are also limited to classical musicians.   <br /> <br />In some cases the perspective of 2002 has warranted an expanded version of a composer entry in the 1983 edition.  For example, Orff, Moussorgsky, and Scriabin all get expanded treatments (but lose their portraits) in the new edition.   <br /> <br />So, what to do; which Companion to choose?  My solution is obvious but perhaps not very helpful:  if you love music and like good reference books, get both.  I believe the Alison Latham 2002 edition should be viewed as an updated supplement to the more substantial and lavish 1983 edition, not as a replacement.  Denis Arnold's 1983 two-volume edition was the first complete revision since the original 1938 Oxford Companion to Music, edited (and largely written) by Percy Scholes; it is not perfect, but I think it represents the high-water mark of the three editions.  If you have only the spartan 2002 edition, be aware that you are missing much of value and beauty in the 1983 edition.  (Unfortunately I'm not the only one who has noticed that the 2002 edition is no replacement for the 1983 edition:  if you check prices for used copies of the 1983 edition in the USA, you'll find that they are high.)  If you own both editions, you can enjoy the best of both worlds.  If I could own only one, I'd keep the 1983.   <br />	2005-01-17
US	53007016	RF7L7X2W19FZH	0198662122	893146634	The Oxford Companion to Music (Oxford Companions)	Books	4	97	98	N	N	Better or Worse than its Predecessor?	I've been comparing The Oxford Companion to Music, ed. Alison Latham (2002; 1,434 pages) with its immediate predecessor:  The New Oxford Companion to Music, ed. Denis Arnold (1983; 2 volumes, 2,017 pages).  In the estimable series of Oxford Companions you can usually expect the new edition to supersede and replace the old one.  In this case, however, it's not that simple.  A glance at the above reveals that the new edition, in one volume, is some 583 pages shorter than the preceding edition, in two volumes.  Losing almost 600 pages of 2,000 represents a very substantial loss of material.<br /><br />Moreover, when we examine the two editions, we discover that the 1983 edition is lavishly, indeed beautifully, illustrated (\\"1,100 halftone illustrations and line drawings, 405 music examples\\").  None of the illustrations are in color, but there is an abundance of well-chosen, functional, illuminating photos, portraits, paintings, manuscripts, figures, line drawings, plates, tables, musical examples.  The new edition of 2002, alas, has virtually eschewed illustration:  almost all of the illustrations of the 1983 edition have been scrapped.  We get a comparative handful of musical examples and figures, but just about everything else has been eliminated; even the greatest composers aren't represented by a single likeness, whereas in the 1983 edition even lesser composers get a photo or portrait.  If for example you want to understand what an accordion is, there is no substitute for a picture of one.  The 1983 edition has a 4-page entry on \\"accordion,\\" with photos of four different types (including a musician playing one), plus 2 explanatory diagrams.  The 2002 edition has a page-length entry with no illustrative material at all.  I find this a significant loss, a significant cheapening of the book, and a significant diminution in the pleasure of using it.  It's revealing that Alison Latham, the 2002 editor, refers to the \\"wealth of illustrative material\\" as one of the assets of Denis Arnold's 1983 edition, but makes no mention of the fact that she has thrown out almost all of it.<br /><br />But that's not all.  If for example we look up \\"organ\\" in the 1983 edition, we find a truly comprehensive 20-page entry, with 20 illustrations (plates, figures, tables, drawings, photos).  In the 2002 edition we find a 6-page entry with 8 figures; this represents a radical abridgment of the earlier article.<br /><br />Could \\"organ\\" be an unhappy fluke?  No, unfortunately it's not.  I looked up \\"trumpet,\\" \\"violin,\\" and \\"piano,\\" and found the same result in each case:  a truly drastic loss of material, both text and illustration, in the new edition.<br /><br />If you look up any of the hundred standard repertory operas in the 1983 edition, you find the basic facts about composer, librettist, and premiere, plus a synopsis of the action, and often an apt illustration and \\"Further Reading\\" suggestions.  If you look up any of the same operas in the 2002 edition, you find a very short entry (Carmen, for example, gets three lines; Tristan und Isolde gets two lines) giving the basic facts about composer, librettist, premiere--no synopsis, no illustration, no reading list.<br /><br />So you can see why the 2002 edition of this book was received with reservation, indeed with downright disappointment, by those who were familiar with the 1983 edition.  Why would Oxford UP have made such Draconian changes?  Well, the governing perception seems to have been that the 1983 edition, lavishly illustrated and in two volumes, had outgrown its purpose and over-reached its market.  Evidently many found the two-volume format cumbersome and too expensive.  The 2002 edition, by eliminating almost all of the illustrations and reducing the size to a single volume, has cheapened and abridged the book, rendered it much less attractive, and in many areas reduced its usefulness, but has made it handier and more affordable.<br /><br />Does the 2002 edition have no redeeming qualities, then, but cheapness and one-volume convenience?  Indeed it does have its virtues.  For one, it's up-to-date.  A blurb on its dustcover breathlessly claims, \\"Now, thirty years after the last edition, this invaluable companion is back in a completely new edition\\"--a barefaced falsehood:  the period between the two editions was 19 years, not 30.  But the new edition benefits from the scholarship of the last two decades; many new and updated articles (\\"over 1,000 new entries\\") reflect the perspective of 2002.  Many articles conclude with mini-bibliographies (in both editions), and these are inevitably more current and useful in the 2002 edition.<br /><br />Perhaps the most valuable feature of the new edition is the inclusion for the first time of entries not just for composers but for distinguished performing musicians.  In the 1983 (and earlier) edition, there were no entries for conductors, singers, instrumentalists.  In the 2002 edition you'll find entries for Toscanini, Walter, Furtwangler, Caruso, Melba, Ponselle, Melchior, Flagstad, Callas, Heifetz, Casals, Artur Rubinstein, Horowitz, Segovia, Dennis Brain, and many others.  This change was overdue and certainly enhances the usefulness of the book.  Many of the \\"over 1,000 new entries\\" in the 2002 edition are in this category.  \\"Space limitations have restricted these [entries] to artists who are no longer alive and who had significant influence on composition or performance.\\"  These entries are also limited to classical musicians.<br /><br />In some cases the perspective of 2002 has warranted an expanded version of a composer entry in the 1983 edition.  For example, Orff, Moussorgsky, and Scriabin all get expanded treatments (but lose their portraits) in the new edition.<br /><br />So, what to do; which Companion to choose?  My solution is obvious but perhaps not very helpful:  if you love music and like good reference books, get both.  I believe the Alison Latham 2002 edition should be viewed as an updated supplement to the more substantial and lavish 1983 edition, not as a replacement.  Denis Arnold's 1983 two-volume edition was the first complete revision since the original 1938 Oxford Companion to Music, edited (and largely written) by Percy Scholes; it is not perfect, but I think it represents the high-water mark of the three editions.  If you have only the spartan 2002 edition, be aware that you are missing much of value and beauty in the 1983 edition.  (Unfortunately I'm not the only one who has noticed that the 2002 edition is no replacement for the 1983 edition:  if you check prices for used copies of the 1983 edition in the USA, you'll find that they are high.)  If you own both editions, you can enjoy the best of both worlds.  If I could own only one, I'd keep the 1983.ve no redeeming qualities, then, but cheapness and one-volume convenience?  Indeed it does have its virtues.  For one, it's up-to-date.  A blurb on its dustcover breathlessly claims, \\"Now, thirty years after the last edition, this invaluable companion is back in a completely new edition\\"--a barefaced falsehood:  the period between the two editions was 19 years, not 30.  But the new edition benefits from the scholarship of the last two decades; many new and updated articles (\\"over 1,000 new entries\\") reflect the perspective of 2002.  Many articles conclude with mini-bibliographies (in both editions), and these are inevitably more current and useful in the 2002 edition.   <br /> <br />Perhaps the most valuable feature of the new edition is the inclusion for the first time of entries not just for composers but for distinguished performing musicians.  In the 1983 (and earlier) edition, there were no entries for conductors, singers, instrumentalists.  In the 2002 edition you'll find entries for Toscanini, Walter, Furtwangler, Caruso, Melba, Ponselle, Melchior, Flagstad, Callas, Heifetz, Casals, Artur Rubinstein, Horowitz, Segovia, Dennis Brain, and many others.  This change was overdue and certainly enhances the usefulness of the book.  Many of the \\"over 1,000 new entries\\" in the 2002 edition are in this category.  \\"Space limitations have restricted these [entries] to artists who are no longer alive and who had significant influence on composition or performance.\\"  These entries are also limited to classical musicians.   <br /> <br />In some cases the perspective of 2002 has warranted an expanded version of a composer entry in the 1983 edition.  For example, Orff, Moussorgsky, and Scriabin all get expanded treatments (but lose their portraits) in the new edition.   <br /> <br />So, what to do; which Companion to choose?  My solution is obvious but perhaps not very helpful:  if you love music and like good reference books, get both.  I believe the Alison Latham 2002 edition should be viewed as an updated supplement to the more substantial and lavish 1983 edition, not as a replacement.  Denis Arnold's 1983 two-volume edition was the first complete revision since the original 1938 Oxford Companion to Music, edited (and largely written) by Percy Scholes; it is not perfect, but I think it represents the high-water mark of the three editions.  If you have only the spartan 2002 edition, be aware that you are missing much of value and beauty in the 1983 edition.  (Unfortunately I'm not the only one who has noticed that the 2002 edition is no replacement for the 1983 edition:  if you check prices for used copies of the 1983 edition in the USA, you'll find that they are high.)  If you own both editions, you can enjoy the best of both worlds.  If I could own only one, I'd keep the 1983.   <br />	2005-01-17
US	53007016	R3KCEZ7135LX5F	0198604521	185406558	Little Oxford English Dictionary (Eighth Edition)	Books	5	70	72	N	N	A Small Gem	I bought this tiny dictionary as a joke.  I'm a retired professor of English and something of a reference-books hound.  I have and use a number of English dictionaries, including some large, unabridged ones, and three of the best collegiate-sized ones.  Unlike any of these, this little dictionary looked appealingly \\"cute,\\" and I had in mind to give it to a ladyfriend, but I assumed it was too small to be taken seriously.   <br /> <br />Just for fun I set it out where it would be handy and started to use it.  I was surprised to discover how good it is; I was compelled to change my mind about it and came to regard it with a healthy respect.  I've used it pretty extensively now for several months, and I can honestly say that it's difficult for me to imagine how a dictionary of this miniscule size (6  inches by 4  inches by 1  inches) could be better than this one.  Some will actually prefer it to the larger, more comprehensive collegiate-sized dictionaries, because it is quick and easy to use, there is an absolute minimum of scholarly paraphernalia, and its straight-to-the-point definitions are unusually succinct, pithy, and understandable.  The guiding principle here seems to be:  what are most users of this book going to want to know most when they look up this word?  As the preface accurately claims, \\"Definitions are written in a very clear and accessible style, using everyday English and avoiding abbreviations and technical terms.\\"   <br /> <br />Pronunciations are given only when likely to be tricky.  Inevitably there is much fuller information in the collegiate-sized dictionaries, but for someone who has a need for a tiny, handy, backpackable or otherwise easily portable English dictionary, this one can be confidently recommended as a model of cut-to-the-chase directness, brevity, and simplicity.  And although it is a dictionary of British English, it is careful to note American variants in spellings and meanings, so it is useful for Americans.  A remarkably good job, Angus Stevenson and Oxford UP; I would hardly have believed that so much could be squeezed into so little.  Sometimes good things do come in small packages.  This little gem is a keeper.   <br /> <br />And for those seeking a more comprehensive dictionary of American English, I recommend the hefty but excellent New Oxford American Dictionary (2001, 2023 pages), American Heritage Dictionary, 3rd or 4th edition, and the king of the collegiate dictionaries, the classic \\"old reliable\\" Merriam-Webster Collegiate Dictionary, 10th edition.   <br />	2004-10-10
US	53007016	R2UDM07I6VRFH8	0094799105	264558063	Naval Battles of the Twentieth Century (History and Politics)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Good Read, Informative and Well Written	I've read the preceding reviews here of this book, and they give this book a bum rap, but I think they miss the point. You don't criticize an apple for failing to be an orange. This book is not, and does not pretend to be, a heavyweight, exhaustive, scholarly treatment for naval professionals and buffs. You won't find a Samuel Eliot Morison level of thoroughness, detail, analysis, and documentation here. Instead it is a readable, well-written, informed, brief account of major twentieth-century naval battles, as selected and described by a British naval historian, intended for the lay reader. When such major battles as Jutland (38 pages), Midway (15 pages), and Leyte Gulf (20 pages), each of which has been the subject of full-scale books in its own right, are treated at such summary length here, it is obvious that this book is an exercise in synthesis, not analysis. It is a popular book, in the good sense of that term. If that's not what you want, look elsewhere. The book was a selection of the Military Book Club.  <br />  <br /> My edition has a blurb from ex-Secretary of the Navy John Lehman, writing in The Wall Street Journal: Hough is a good storyteller with a refreshing, breezy style. That's an apt and fair summary: the emphasis is on good storytelling. The author has chosen 13 naval battles, each receiving a chapter, starting with the battle of Tsu-Shima (Russo-Japanese war) of 1905 and concluding with the battle for the Philippines of 1944, and has told their stories succinctly (chapters range from 10 to 38 pages; the text of the book is only 282 pages). Some maps are provided, where the author judged the complexity of the battle warrants, and there is a select, chapter-by-chapter bibliography.  <br />  <br /> My complaints are that more maps might well have been provided (e.g., no map for the battle of Midway), that the selection of illustrations is meager and inadequate, and that various errors bespeak careless preparation. Particularly in the last quarter of the book there are some silly and typographical errors that indicate a serious failure to proofread; a few of them are glaring, even egregious, but obvious (e.g., 7 May on p. 223 should read 7 June; From their base at Rabaul, the United States reinforced. . . . on p. 227 should read Japan instead of US; Admiral Halsey on p. 243 should read Admiral Nimitz; Admiral Clifton Spruance on p. 267 should read Raymond Spruance).  <br />  <br /> Strengths are that Hough was a good choice to write a book of this type: the writing is polished, spare, and lean; Hough is adept at painting a vivid picture with a few deft, broad strokes, at conveying much in little space. The narration of the battles unfolding is convincing yet economical, the writing colorful and incisive, with an eye for the telling detail, whether of personal character or physical description. Hough is even-handed and balanced, free from British bias or chauvinism. In several instances the author, a distinguished British naval historian with a number of books in the field to his credit, has personally interviewed survivors of these battles.  <br />  <br /> Perhaps because (unlike the other reviewers) I wasn't expecting this book to be what it clearly is not, I found it highly readable and informative, and I thoroughly enjoyed it. So take the negative reviews here with a grain of salt. And for anyone interested, there are full, dramatic, memorable accounts of the battles of Midway and Leyte Gulf in Herman Wouk's War and Remembrance.  <br />	2004-07-28
US	53007016	RCA5FEC29MDUK	158567379X	264558063	Naval Battles of the 20th Century	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Good Read, Informative and Well Written	I've read the preceding reviews on amazon.com of this book, and they give it a bum rap, but I think they miss the point.  You don't criticize an apple for failing to be an orange.  This book is not, and does not pretend to be, a heavyweight, exhaustive, scholarly treatment for naval professionals and buffs.  You won't find a Samuel Eliot Morison level of thoroughness, detail, analysis, and documentation here.  Instead it is a readable, well-written, informed, brief account of major twentieth-century naval battles, as selected and described by a British naval historian, intended for the lay reader.  When such major battles as Jutland (38 pages), Midway (15 pages), and Leyte Gulf (20 pages), each of which has been the subject of full-scale books in its own right, are treated at such summary length here, it is obvious that this book is an exercise in synthesis, not analysis.  It is a popular book, in the good sense of that term.  If that's not what you want, look elsewhere.  The book was a selection of the Military Book Club.   <br /> <br />My edition has a blurb from ex-Secretary of the Navy John Lehman, writing in The Wall Street Journal:  Hough is a good storyteller with a refreshing, breezy style.  That's an apt and fair summary:  the emphasis is on good storytelling.  The author has chosen 13 naval battles, each receiving a chapter, starting with the battle of Tsu-Shima (Russo-Japanese war) of 1905 and concluding with the battle for the Philippines of 1944, and has told their stories succinctly (chapters range from 10 to 38 pages; the text of the book is only 282 pages).  Some maps are provided, where the author judged the complexity of the battle warrants, and there is a select, chapter-by-chapter bibliography.   <br /> <br />My complaints are that more maps might well have been provided (e.g., no map for the battle of Midway), that the selection of illustrations is meager and inadequate, and that various errors bespeak careless preparation.  Particularly in thelast quarter of the book there are some silly and typographical errors that indicate a serious failure to proofread; a few of them are glaring, even egregious, but obvious (e.g., 7 May on p. 223 should read 7 June; From their base at Rabaul, the United States reinforced. . . . on p. 227 should read Japan instead of US; Admiral Halsey on p. 243 should read Admiral Nimitz; Admiral Clifton Spruance on p. 267 should read Raymond Spruance).   <br /> <br />Strengths are that Hough was a good choice to write a book of this type:  the writing is polished, spare, and lean; Hough is adept at painting a vivid picture with a few deft, broad strokes, at conveying much in little space.  The narration of the battles unfolding is convincing yet economical, the writing colorful and incisive, with an eye for the telling detail, whether of personal character or physical description.  Hough is even-handed and balanced, free from British bias or chauvinism.  In several instances the author, a distinguished British naval historian with a number of books in the field to his credit, has personally interviewed survivors of these battles.   <br /> <br />Perhaps because (unlike the other amazon.com reviewers) I wasn't expecting this book to be what it clearly is not, I found it highly readable and informative, and I thoroughly enjoyed it.    So take the negative reviews here with a grain of salt.  And for anyone interested, there are full, dramatic, memorable accounts of the battles of Midway and Leyte Gulf in Herman Wouk's War and Remembrance.   <br />	2004-07-28
US	53007016	R13RUEB8K06LF6	0709025424	899788698	Jascha Heifetz	Books	3	10	10	N	N	A flawed, incomplete biography of the great violinist	It seems amazing that no one has yet published a successful full-scale biography of Jascha Heifetz (1901-1987), who was, as anyone reading this review is likely to know, the greatest, most influential violinist of the twentieth century.  Heifetz was an intensely private man, who did not like to talk about himself and resisted interviews, questions about his personal life, and would-be biographers.  Thus he made the task of anyone attempting a biography of him difficult.  Artur Weschler-Vered in this book took on the intimidating job of writing what claims to be &quot;the first full-length biography.&quot;  It's not without interest, but unfortunately it's not a very good one.  <br />Heifetz gave his own biography as follows:  &quot;Born in Russia, first lesson at three, debut at seven, debut in America at seventeen.  That's all there really is.&quot;  He was a Russian Jew whose father was a violinist evidently determined to turn his son into a great virtuoso.  Heifetz became a celebrated child prodigy in Russia.  He and his family emigrated to the United States in 1917 at the time of the Russian Revolution, and he played a famous, career-launching Carnegie Hall recital in 1917, also the year of his earliest recordings.  He became an American citizen, making his home first in New York City and later in Los Angeles, and continued to concertize and record until 1972, adding teaching to his activities in his later years.  <br />Despite his enormous international fame (RCA Victor billed him as &quot;The Violinist of the Century&quot;), Heifetz was regarded by his detractors as a cold performer, a faultless but soulless virtuoso who played with chilly technical correctness, who took almost everything at a faster tempo than other violinists, and who declined to &quot;emote&quot; during his performances, preferring to play with an impassive expression, the Great Stone Face among violinists.  He was a reserved, difficult man, a legendary perfectionist and what today would becalled a &quot;control freak.&quot;  He had two failed marriages and troubled relationships with his three children, and as he grew older it seems evident that he was increasingly hard to get along with.  <br />Weschler-Vered's book is strongest on the early years and the late years of Heifetz's life, but there are serious lacunae in the middle years, extensive periods of time in Heifetz's prime during which he has little or nothing to report.  Unfortunately these are the very years we would most like to have a full account of.  Occasionally W-V seems to lose focus, as when he digresses at such length about Heifetz's teacher Auer (and other teachers Heifetz had nothing to do with) that the biography threatens to derail.  Since Heifetz made the work of any biographer difficult, it is perhaps not surprising that there is considerable guesswork and speculation here.  But this gets out of hand in the chapter ominously entitled &quot;Personally Speaking:  Mystery,&quot; which attempts to penetrate &quot;the impenetrable mask behind the poker face&quot; of the famous violinist by means of none-too-convincing amateur psychologizing and psychological speculation.  The author also occasionally gets his facts wrong.  For example, he states categorically that Heifetz appeared in only one movie, They Shall Have Music (1938).  But in fact he appeared in a second one, Carnegie Hall (1947), unknown to W-V.  W-V also doesn't seem to grasp that USC (the University of Southern California) and UCLA (the University of California at Los Angeles), with both of which Heifetz became associated in his later years as a pedagogue, are two distinct and separate universities.  <br />W-V is a Romanian Jew, educated in Israel, who writes awkwardly in English.  His prose is wordy, graceless, sometimes unidiomatic, and occasionally ungrammatical; he sometimes chooses what is manifestly the wrong word, and doesn't understand English punctuation well.  He is a writer who needed a good editor, but hedidn't get one, because this book is full of annoying errors that a good editor would have corrected, and shows evidence of never having been proofread (errors in grammar and punctuation, proper names misspelled, etc.).  A sloppy job of preparation for publication by Schirmer Books, the music division of Macmillan, and publisher of many distinguished books on music.  <br />On the other hand W-V is an amateur violinist, and this gives him an advantage in  describing the technique and mechanics of Heifetz's playing.  It should be noted that his attitude toward Heifetz as a violinist is reverential and dismissive of criticism.  <br />The biography per se is 202 pages in length.  The book also includes a useful, comprehensive discography (by Julian Futter, 25 pages) listing all Heifetz's many approved commercial recordings (1917-1972) (no attempt is made to list &quot;pirates&quot; or &quot;off-the-air&quot; issues), two sections of photographs illustrating the violinist's life from childhood to his last concerts, a bibliography, notes, and an index.  <br />In sum, this is far from an ideal biography of Heifetz, but for now it may be the best of a disappointing lot.  Its few competitors all have problems, including a couple of personal memoirs by Heifetz students who knew him only in his last years and which have a self-serving component.  For a Heifetz buff this book is worth owning for the discography alone.  But let's hope that some day soon the great violinist will get the first-rate biography he deserves.	2004-06-21
US	53007016	R30NGJ0EVXWO0N	1880909391	212857693	Ruffo, My Parabola [La Mia Parabola]: The Autobiography of Titta Ruffo (Great Voices 1)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	The autobiography of an egotist (with some bonuses)	Titta Ruffo (1877-1953) was one of the greatest baritones of the twentieth-century.  In his prime (1905-1925) he had an enormous, powerful voice considered by many who heard him the most impressive baritone voice ever.  W. J. Henderson, the distinguished NYC music critic, wrote of him:  \\"Titta Ruffo unites in his voice the beauty of Caruso, the classicism of Jean de Reszke, and the power of Tamagno.\\"      The classicism of Jean de Reszke?  Well, perhaps a more just and accurate overall assessment is from The Metropolitan Opera Encyclopedia:  \\"Endowed with the most imposing baritone voice of his generation, Ruffo cultivated an aggressive, dramatic style far removed from the suavity of Battistini and Ancona.  Under such heavy usage, even his magnificent instrument--dark bronze in color, wide in range, with superb breath control--wore down prematurely (recognizing his own fault in this, he declined to teach).\\"  Not content with the natural hugeness of his voice, he developed the habit (clearly audible in many of his recordings) of forcing certain tones to make them sound even more powerful, with the result that his voice aged prematurely.  His training had been hit-or-miss (short stints with several teachers) and he was basically self-taught.  After he had retired, when asked by a journalist why he didn't teach singing, he replied:  \\"I never knew how to sing; that's why my voice didn't last beyond my fifties.  I have no right to profit from my fame and try to teach something which I did not know how to do.\\"  Such candor from a world-famous singer is more than refreshing; it's amazing!  Fortunately he made many recordings, and to cite only one, his 1914 recording of the great tenor/baritone duet \\"Si pel ciel\\" from Otello with his contemporary Caruso is one of the most famous ever made.      His autobiography enjoys the reputation of being one of the better books by a singer about his/her career, so I read it with anticipation.  I wish I could recommend it with more enthusiasm.  It has its moments; I liked best the early pages describing his boyhood, youth, and attempts to learn how to sing.  But overall I found the book disappointing; I'd hoped for more.  No doubt it's unrealistic to expect objectivity and even-handedness in the autobiography of a famous singer, but here I find not even a semblance of these qualities.  Ruffo emerges as self-absorbed and full of himself; there is nothing of the refreshing, self-deprecating candor I'd hoped for from the late-in-life remark quoted above; quite the contrary.  Everything he writes here is ultimately self-serving and glowingly self-aggrandizing. Nothing is mentioned here of a seriously self-critical, self-examining, or self-questioning nature.  Indeed, no chink in the armor is permitted to be glimpsed in this tirelessly self-promoting narrative.  Instead, there is an endless recitation of triumphs which eventually becomes monotonous.  Everything is me, me, me; my stunning success here, my triumph there, my ovations, the adulation of my public, etc.  All the various stories and anecdotes he tells, including the nonmusical ones, are designed to demonstrate what a splendid, generous, caring, honorable, resourceful, courageous, commendable fellow he is.  The spotlight is unremittingly, rosily, and in the end tiresomely upon himself.  The result is to de-humanize him, to make him less believable and less interesting.  It's hard to be sympathetic toward an autobiographer who toots his own horn so relentlessly.      Ruffo has a grand opinion of himself, and while it may be justified, it's hard to make over 300 pages of autobiography written in that mode palatable and interesting to the reader. There is virtually nothing about the technique, the method, the specifics of his singing, about vocal ups and downs, the nuts and bolts of a singing career.  And there is surprisingly little about the colleagues he sang with--and not much that's charitable, especially about other baritones.  It's revealing that the one who does get full and sympathetic treatment, Victor Maurel, was too old to be a competitor.  Whereas Battistini, although of the generation preceding Ruffo's, sang so correctly that he preserved his voice well up into the time when Ruffo was beginning to lose his own; not surprisingly, Ruffo has nothing good to say about him.      In sum, if you're a Ruffo fan, or if you're a serious student of the history of operatic singing and singers 1900-1925, you will probably find reading this book rewarding, but if you're not, I can recommend it only with reservations.  On the other hand, this edition (Baskerville Publishers, 1995, 490 pages, sturdily hardbound) is a commendable full-blown scholarly effort, including copious explanatory notes on the text by Ruffo's son; a CD of no less than 19 well-chosen Ruffo operatic arias (recorded 1905-1922); an unusually full section of 68 photographs illustrating the singer's life from childhood to old age and many of his roles; a full chronology of his career, detailing just what he sang, where, when, and with whom (with its own index); a truly excellent discography giving detailed information about all Ruffo's many recordings (1904 to 1933); a bibliography; and a general index.  Baskerville deserves credit for an exemplary job:  this is how a biography or autobiography of a singer ought to be presented.  (This was the first in Baskerville's \\"Great Voices\\" series of singer biographies.)	2004-05-21
US	53007016	R1OOWTMO5JRSDB	1880909405	725236270	Renata Tebaldi: The Voice of an Angel Great Voices 2	Books	4	18	19	N	N	A competent &quot;fan&quot; biography with bonuses	The author of this biography is an Italian journalist who has been a music critic for Italian periodicals for many years; she is obviously a Tebaldi fan.  The translator is &quot;Tebaldi's close personal friend for more than 30 years.&quot;  The result is a competent, professional, rather bland &quot;fan&quot; biography of one of the great sopranos of the post-World-War-Two era.  That is to say, it falls into the trap of many gushing celebrity biographies by making no serious attempt to be objective or even-handed in its treatment of its subject:  everything about Tebaldi here is rosy, positive, marvelous; the book is all bravas, applause, ovations, adulation.  The Tebaldi portrayed here is unremittingly wonderful, and nothing of a questioning or critical nature is permitted to rear its ugly head.  If you want to read this kind of book about Tebaldi, you probably won't be disappointed in this one.  It's not as gushing as some, but its subject is permitted no faults, no flaws; only positive reviews are quoted; no criticism is allowed, nor any realistic discussion of vocal ups and downs, the strengths and weaknesses of Tebaldi's voice and performances, etc.<br />Although I've admired Tebaldi's singing ever since her first recordings of the 1950s, have many of her CDs, and am positively disposed toward her, the plain truth is that her life is not a particularly interesting one.  She came from a conventional middle-class background, and her exceptional voice was recognized early on; she enjoyed early success as a singer and a rapid progress to the top (she was singing at La Scala within two years of her provincial debut), and marched from one success to another.  A large, tall woman, she remained single and childless, had admirable self-discipline, and lived entirely for her career.  Once past her childhood and youth, her story becomes a repetitive one of moving around the globe singing opera successfully all over the world, with concertizing figuring more prominently in her later career.  <br />She made her debut in Rovigo in 1944 in Mefistofele, was brought to La Scala by Toscanini in 1946, and from there went on to triumph after triumph, first in Italy, then around the world.  Most Tebaldi buffs consider that she did her best singing in the 1950s (although you won't read that here).  She had a vocal crisis of sorts in early 1963 (again, you won't find it called that here), withdrew from singing for a year, and re-worked her vocal method with a voice coach (who happened to be the brother-in-law of the translator of this book).  She then resumed her career in 1964, continuing singing opera until a final Falstaff at the Met in 1972 and a final Otello there in 1973.  Thereafter she concertized until her final concert at La Scala in 1976.  Although she certainly had a great international career and sang in major opera houses everywhere, it would probably be fair to say that her main bases of operation were La Scala from 1946 to 1955, and the Met from 1955 to 1973.  <br />One unusual aspect of her career for a world-class soprano of the post-World-War-Two era is that she refused to learn to sing in any language but Italian (and one would think this would have been a significant handicap to her concert career).  In her early career in Italy she sang in Faust and in three Wagner operas (all in Italian, of course).  Later she sang in Eugene Onegin, again in Italian.  She said that French was too nasal and German was too guttural and that she feared what singing in them would do to her voice.  But one may suspect it had more to do with laziness and complacency, being satisfied with her core Italian repertory; unlike her great rival Callas, Tebaldi was not driven and ambitious, not a very adventurous singer (after 1958--that is, for the last 15 years of her operatic career--she learned only three new roles).  And while she is certainly portrayed in this book as an admirable, likable, sympathetic person, she does not emerge as a particularly interesting or intelligent one.  <br />The biography is of about the right length, I would say (208 pages).  But there is considerably more:  included are a CD of 13 well-chosen arias (and one song), all recorded fairly early in her career (1949-1956) with the exception of one aria from 1964; an excellent, copious section of 111 photographs, illustrating Tebaldi's life from childhood to old age and showing her in many of her roles; a list of her repertory, and of all her roles by year of first performance; and a comprehensive chronology of all her engagements from 1944 to 1976, detailing what, where, when, and with whom she sang.  There is also a discography, but unfortunately it is a poor one:  only three pages in length, it provides minimal information about only her commercial complete opera recordings (all Decca/London with two exceptions).  After the commendable fullness of the photo section and the career chronology, it's disappointing that the discography is so skimpy and incomplete.  <br />In sum, if you're a Tebaldi buff, this book is probably worth having.  (This was the second in Baskerville's &quot;Great Voices&quot; series of singer biographies.)	2004-05-15
US	53007016	R3DLFJSGM7JE3U	0671242393	99405468	Divas	Books	3	6	6	N	N	A trashy but competent potboiler	Robert Merrill the operatic baritone nominally wrote three books, of which only the first, his autobiography Once More from the Beginning, 1965, is worth reading.  This one is the last of the three Merrill books, each one with a different ghostwriter.  When I saw this book listed online for a couple of bucks, knowing nothing about it, I assumed it must be some sort of memoir of the various divas Merrill had sung with during his long career, and I ordered it.  I was wrong:  it's a novel!  The chances that RM the high-school dropout could craft a readable 400-page novel are probably about the same as for Donald Duck.  I doubt that he had anything more to do with it than putting his name on the cover in hopes that would boost sales of a trashy, gossipy novel in which three operatic sopranos scheme, manipulate, and finagle for a single cushy position as commentator/host for a series of operatic telecasts.  The tone of the novel is perhaps established by the fact that it opens with a torrid sex scene on page one.  It is competently written but is basically a trashy potboiler.	2004-05-05
US	53007016	R27GN5G8IJHFGY	0070415013	487419850	Between acts, an irreverent look at opera and other madness	Books	2	5	8	N	N	Disappointing and unnecessary	Merrill published his autobiography, Once More from the Beginning, in 1965, with a different ghostwriter.  When I picked up this book, I wondered why he had switched ghostwriters.  After reading it, I wondered no longer.  Approximately the first half of this disappointing, rather trashy book is simply an inferior recycling of the same autobiographical material in Once More from the Beginning.  The remainder is a grab-bag of anecdotes, vignettes, smutty stories, all written in a breathlessly breezy, glib, gossipy, frivolous style that is long on tawdry titillation and short on class, taste, and substance--and sometimes believability as well.  Anyone interested in Merrill's life and career should read Once More from the Beginning; it's no masterpiece but it's a lot better than this redundant, unnecessary dud.	2004-05-05
US	53007016	RFEY9QRIRABFG	0708840051	324090730	Joan Sutherland	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Good but flawed.	As opera buffs well know, Joan Sutherland was the greatest coloratura soprano of the second half of the twentieth century.  This book, by the wife of recent British Prime Minister John Major, is a decent, competent, workmanlike biography, but not a truly excellent or outstanding one.  Major has done most of her homework well, and there is much about the book that is attractive.  It is readable and is about the right length (the biography itself is 248 pages long).  The book includes a comprehensive catalog of Sutherland's performances (40 pages, with cast lists, conductors, locations and dates of performances, from her earliest public appearance in Sydney in 1946 to her farewell gala at Covent Garden on 31 Dec. 1990), usefully chronicling an exceptionally long, rich, and varied international career.  It also includes a discography (14 pages) and a role listing, giving each role she sang, when she first sang it, and how many times she sang it.  There are two sections of photographs, well chosen but fuzzily reproduced in the edition I have (the American Little, Brown edition of 1994).  <br />Major makes a reasonable effort through most of the book to be fair and even-handed, not falling into the trap of being excessively partisan and uncritically laudatory (the gushing &quot;fan&quot; biography) but showing obvious sympathy for her subject.  If anything, however, the balance is too strongly tilted to the sympathetic side, too eager to justify whatever Dame Joan did or didn't do, and in particular too eager to say kind things about her final performing years (when her voice was in decline), editing out negative review comments and quoting the favorable ones.  (Like most prima donnas she sang too long and didn't retire until she was well over the hill at 64.)  Sutherland's shortcomings as a singer (despite her excellence, she did have some) get minimal treatment, and one of them, the increasingly hooded, covered, hooty, or throaty quality of her midrange after the mid-1970s, is never mentioned at all.  <br />The writing is for the most part utilitarian but undistinguished.  There are too many small evidences of failure to edit/proofread carefully--carelessness for which the publisher is primarily to blame.  The book has an index, although its usefulness is reduced because it indexes only proper names, the names of operas, and opera roles.  In addition, it is arbitrary and unreliable (for example, the book does much quoting of reviews by critics, some of whom are indexed, while others are not).  But the most substantial fault of the book, in my view, is the failure of the text of the biography to deal at all with a major component of Sutherland's life work:  her very important and extensive recording career.  This is a grave shortcoming, not to be glossed over, and for some it may be decisive.  Given the book's subject, I find it inexplicable and inexcusable.  <br />One example:  the recording that announced to the world the arrival of a major new singer, Sutherland's groundbreaking, extraordinarily ambitious two-LP recital The Art of the Prima Donna (recorded in 1960), came as a revelation to opera buffs everywhere, who hadn't heard coloratura singing of this caliber since the days of Sembrich, Melba, Tetrazzini, and Galli-Curci (indeed, Sutherland proved to offer certain qualities that none of them could match).  It would be hard to overemphasize its importance.  It reached a far wider audience than Sutherland's live performances of the time, and aroused awareness of and interest in her throughout the operatic world.  It is not even mentioned in the text.  <br />A second example:  in mid-career (1972) Sutherland took the unexpected, venturesome step of recording the Princess in Puccini's Turandot, a taxing, heavy dramatic soprano role, notorious for its demanding high tessitura, but far removed from the coloratura flights and bel canto roles Sutherland was noted for.  Many found her assumption of it surprising, risky, even ill-advised.  She confounded the naysayers, however, and opened a new chapter regarding her range and versatility by making a decided success of it.  Although she never sang the role in the opera house, and had never professionally sung any other Puccini role up to that time, this success pointed the way to her taking on a dramatic soprano role like Leonora in Il Trovatore (as well as another Puccini role in Suor Angelica).  This recording is also of particular interest in that, besides boasting a powerhouse cast including Pavarotti, Caballe, Ghiaurov, Krause, and Pears, it was the only recording Sutherland made since the early 1960s which husband Richard Bonynge did not conduct (the conductor was Zubin Mehta), and is regarded by many critics as the best Turandot ever recorded.  There is no mention of any of this in the text.  <br />These are but two examples.  Her many other landmark recordings, her entire extensive, three-decade recording career (1958-1990) and enormous recorded output--so important in establishing an international audience for her, spreading her international reputation, and now comprising her living legacy--are either ignored or dismissed in cursory asides.  Sutherland made a huge investment of time, energy, and dedication in her recordings.  What were her recording sessions like?  How did she and her colleagues feel about them and interact in them?  Which ones went well and which ones didn't?  How were her various recordings received by critics and public, and what impact did they have on her career?  At first I thought that Major was saving this material for a separate chapter on Dame Joan's recordings, but alas, that chapter never arrives.  Major is simply not interested in (or wasn't willing to research) this vital and enduring aspect of Sutherland's work; instead, her focus is unremittingly upon the live performances, and, to a lesser extent, the personal life.  Even the discography is flawed, because it gives only year of release of recordings,not the much more important recording dates (which should have been readily available from Decca/London), and is therefore less useful than it ought to be.  <br />So be forewarned, this biography has much useful information to offer, and will be of interest to anyone curious about Sutherland's career, but it is also seriously flawed and incomplete.	2004-04-11
US	53007016	RC0P60Q665QBV	0316545554	324090730	Joan Sutherland: The Authorized Biography	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Good but flawed.	As opera buffs well know, Joan Sutherland was the greatest coloratura soprano of the second half of the twentieth century.  This book, by the wife of recent British Prime Minister John Major, is a decent, competent, workmanlike biography, but not a truly excellent or outstanding one.  Major has done most of her homework well, and there is much about the book that is attractive.  It is readable and is about the right length (the biography itself is 248 pages long).  The book includes a comprehensive catalog of Sutherland's performances (40 pages, with cast lists, conductors, locations and dates of performances, from her earliest public appearance in Sydney in 1946 to her farewell gala at Covent Garden on 31 Dec. 1990), usefully chronicling an exceptionally long, rich, and varied international career.  It also includes a discography (14 pages) and a role listing, giving each role she sang, when she first sang it, and how many times she sang it.  There are two sections of photographs, well chosen but fuzzily reproduced in the edition I have (the American Little, Brown edition of 1994).  <br />Major makes a reasonable effort through most of the book to be fair and even-handed, not falling into the trap of being excessively partisan and uncritically laudatory (the gushing &quot;fan&quot; biography) but showing obvious sympathy for her subject.  If anything, however, the balance is too strongly tilted to the sympathetic side, too eager to justify whatever Dame Joan did or didn't do, and in particular too eager to say kind things about her final performing years (when her voice was in decline), editing out negative review comments and quoting the favorable ones.  (Like most prima donnas she sang too long and didn't retire until she was well over the hill at 64.)  Sutherland's shortcomings as a singer (despite her excellence, she did have some) get minimal treatment, and one of them, the increasingly hooded, covered, hooty, or throaty quality of her midrange after the mid-1970s, is never mentioned at all.  <br />The writing is for the most part utilitarian but undistinguished.  There are too many small evidences of failure to edit/proofread carefully--carelessness for which the publisher is primarily to blame.  The book has an index, although its usefulness is reduced because it indexes only proper names, the names of operas, and opera roles.  In addition, it is arbitrary and unreliable (for example, the book does much quoting of reviews by critics, some of whom are indexed, while others are not).  But the most substantial fault of the book, in my view, is the failure of the text of the biography to deal at all with a major component of Sutherland's life work:  her very important and extensive recording career.  This is a grave shortcoming, not to be glossed over, and for some it may be decisive.  Given the book's subject, I find it inexplicable and inexcusable.  <br />One example:  the recording that announced to the world the arrival of a major new singer, Sutherland's groundbreaking, extraordinarily ambitious two-LP recital The Art of the Prima Donna (recorded in 1960), came as a revelation to opera buffs everywhere, who hadn't heard coloratura singing of this caliber since the days of Sembrich, Melba, Tetrazzini, and Galli-Curci (indeed, Sutherland proved to offer certain qualities that none of them could match).  It would be hard to overemphasize its importance.  It reached a far wider audience than Sutherland's live performances of the time, and aroused awareness of and interest in her throughout the operatic world.  It is not even mentioned in the text.  <br />A second example:  in mid-career (1972) Sutherland took the unexpected, venturesome step of recording the Princess in Puccini's Turandot, a taxing, heavy dramatic soprano role, notorious for its demanding high tessitura, but far removed from the coloratura flights and bel canto roles Sutherland was noted for.  Many found her assumption of it surprising, risky, even ill-advised.  She confounded the naysayers, however, and opened a new chapter regarding her range and versatility by making a decided success of it.  Although she never sang the role in the opera house, and had never professionally sung any other Puccini role up to that time, this success pointed the way to her taking on a dramatic soprano role like Leonora in Il Trovatore (as well as another Puccini role in Suor Angelica).  This recording is also of particular interest in that, besides boasting a powerhouse cast including Pavarotti, Caballe, Ghiaurov, Krause, and Pears, it was the only recording Sutherland made since the early 1960s which husband Richard Bonynge did not conduct (the conductor was Zubin Mehta), and is regarded by many critics as the best Turandot ever recorded.  There is no mention of any of this in the text.  <br />These are but two examples.  Her many other landmark recordings, her entire extensive, three-decade recording career (1958-1990) and enormous recorded output--so important in establishing an international audience for her, spreading her international reputation, and now comprising her living legacy--are either ignored or dismissed in cursory asides.  Sutherland made a huge investment of time, energy, and dedication in her recordings.  What were her recording sessions like?  How did she and her colleagues feel about them and interact in them?  Which ones went well and which ones didn't?  How were her various recordings received by critics and public, and what impact did they have on her career?  At first I thought that Major was saving this material for a separate chapter on Dame Joan's recordings, but alas, that chapter never arrives.  Major is simply not interested in (or wasn't willing to research) this vital and enduring aspect of Sutherland's work; instead, her focus is unremittingly upon the live performances, and, to a lesser extent, the personal life.  Even the discography is flawed, because it gives only year of release of recordings,not the much more important recording dates (which should have been readily available from Decca/London), and is therefore less useful than it ought to be.  <br />So be forewarned, this biography has much useful information to offer, and will be of interest to anyone curious about Sutherland's career, but it is also seriously flawed and incomplete.	2004-04-11
US	53007016	RVVTCE0LANJI0	0316546550	76846676	Point of No Return	Books	4	57	61	N	N	A minority report on a flawed novel	This novel has been called the shrewdest portrait of American life since Sinclair Lewis's Main Street (1920).  That may be an overly ambitious claim, but the book has its points (it has also been called a painstakingly accurate social study of a New England town), and many will find it &quot;a good old-fashioned read,&quot; a genteel, mildly absorbing family saga covering two generations.  My main complaint is that it is simply too long:  559 pages, when it should have been about two-thirds that length.  It is old-fashioned all right, in the sense that its pace is decidedly slow and deliberate; those who like their fiction fast-paced and dramatic need to look elsewhere.  There is a sense here of all the time in the world, and the modest events of the story unfold in quite a leisurely fashion, with lengthy passages of description, exposition, explanation, reflection, retrospection.  Marquand feels obliged to spell out much that a more modern writer would suggest, imply, leave his reader to infer, or simply omit.  I sometimes felt I would never get to the end of it.  Occasionally the book has an elegiac quality.  <br />The protagonist, earnest, conscientious, buttoned-down, and rather dull Charley Gray, is an upper middle-class banker in his forties, back from the war, resuming his place in an old, small, traditional New York City bank in 1947, living in what would now be called a yuppie suburban development with his wife and two children, and worrying about promotion in the bank.  A large part of the novel, however, is devoted to his youth, family life, and first romance in the old, small, traditional New England town (Clyde, Mass.) where he grew up and where his family has its roots.  Hence some of the novel has a postwar setting of 1947 New York City and suburbia, but most of it has a prewar setting and is a portrait of New England small-town life from World War I through the 1920s.  <br />Perhaps the most memorable character is Charley's father, a charming, irresponsible ne'er-do-well of good family and no accomplishment, who promises much and delivers little, and who loses any money he gets his hands on by his compulsive speculation in the stockmarket.  Charley is determined not to be like his father.  The business about the visiting, snooping academic anthropologist/sociologist who writes a study of Clyde and has a passion for categorizing and pigeonholing everything and everyone is heavy-handed and becomes tiresome, strained, and intrusive.  (There is an odd slip in which Marquand has the misapprehension that a Duesenberg is &quot;a foreign car&quot;--a strange mistake for an American social historian of the 1920s and 1930s.)  <br />John P. Marquand (1893-1960) enjoyed that rare thing, both popular and critical success, for the last two decades of his life.  He was widely read and admired as a distinguished American novelist.  He has few readers today.  This book has usually been regarded as one of his better efforts.  He was a facile writer whose prose here is smooth and readable enough, but lacks crispness, incisiveness, pungency, wit.  In the end, the whole performance is pleasant and agreeable but hardly gripping or searching or profound; it is, instead, prolix, rather bland, a little tired, and somewhat dated.  And the big decisive scene, the moment of truth toward which the entire novel seems to be building is, when it finally arrives, &quot;a strangely hollow climax,&quot; to use Marquand's words (and an all-too-predictable one as well).  If you want to read Marquand at his best, before he began to take himself too seriously as a social historian, try The Late George Apley (Pulitzer Prize, 1938), Wickford Point (1939), and perhaps H. M. Pulham, Esquire (1941).  I believe all three are livelier and more engaging than this book.  (The last of these has a protagonist who has much in common with Charley Gray and who has his own &quot;point of no return&quot; story to tell; indeed, H. M. Pulham, Esquire shares its majorthemes with Point of No Return.)	2002-10-17
US	53007016	R37ODDSSP0JP4L	9997406591	676635290	Portrait in Brownstone	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Not One of Auchincloss's Best	This novel purports to be a multi-generational portrait of the fortunes, foibles, loves, and infidelities of a an affluent, extended New York City family covering the years over half a century, from 1901 to 1951.  It concentrates on five characters, three women and two men, representing two generations.  Some have considered it one of Auchincloss's best books; I don't agree.  Its main problem in my eyes is that none of the five main characters is sympathetic:  all the major players paraded for our view are fundamentally unattractive, unengaging, or uninteresting.  And a book devoid of characters that can engage our sympathies or our interest has a hard time being memorable.  An additional shortcoming is that its mixed narrative strategy--omniscient (third-person) narration in some parts and first-person narration in the &quot;Ida&quot; sections--doesn't work very well here:  the narrator Ida is much too verbally sophisticated a chronicler for the kind of character she is portrayed here as being; she writes, indeed, just like the polished, sophisticated, urbane Mr. Auchincloss himself, although that is not at all the kind of person she is supposed to be.  Narrator Ida and character Ida, then, are jarringly and unconvincingly at odds.  It is an important miscalculation and a significant failure.  <br />On the plus side of the ledger, there is quite a powerful and effective showdown scene at the end of the novel between a cold, selfish, egotistical father who is senior partner of the investment banking firm he has built up, and his daughter and son-in-law, who have schemed and connived behind his back to bring about his retirement so that the ambitious son-in-law can take over the firm.  There is a fine irony here in that the father, who as an ambitious young man himself squeezed out his own benefactor and the founder of the firm so that he could take it over, now finds the same thing being done to him.  Even the least of Auchincloss's books are readable, and in the main enjoyable, but I don't find this one particularly successful.  (There is a small historical blunder about the singer Galli-Curci that reveals Auchincloss didn't do his homework very thoroughly.)  <br />Auchincloss would like to see himself as a writer in the genteel tradition of Henry James and Edith Wharton; he is in fact more in the genteel tradition of John P. Marquand.  His main fault is his glib facility:  writing is too easy for him; he was written too much; and too much of it, smoothly ushered in on its cushion of graceful, well-oiled prose, is pallid, thin, brittle, superficial; too much of it is engaging enough while you're reading it, but forgettable, leaving no lasting imprint.  This fault, I regret to say, is in evidence here.	2002-10-01
US	53007016	R10NV7K83JXEKF	0395298466	214335102	POWERS OF ATTORNEY PA	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A delightful read	This is one of Auchincloss's best books:  a splendid collection of twelve short stories, in my opinion the finest of his several collections of stories, and from his prime period.  Here all the stories are interconnected by being about members of the large, prestigious Wall Street law firm of Tower, Tilney and Webb.  Auchincloss, himself once a Manhattan lawyer, knows whereof he writes and creates a memorable world of diverse, colorful characters and juicy predicaments:  the autocratic senior partner's plot to drive out of the firm a cynical, hard-drinking old loose cannon of a partner whom he detests; the scheme of a jealous young associate, ambitious for a partnership, to discredit a rival;  the plight of an ineffectual, despised partner who owes his position in the firm to the fact that his uncle was its founder; a bachelor partner whose secret obsession is his tell-all diary, which grows like a monstrous plant to more than fifty volumes, and which he is afraid to let anyone read; a senior secretary who venerates the firm's dead founder and its past, and whose plans for her retirement party include telling off its present management; a maverick young Irish associate of dubious background, brought in \\"from outside\\" as a specialist and made to feel that he is \\"not one of us,\\" who commences to romance the senior partner's daughter; an aged partner, another who owes his place to family connections instead of ability, who lives in perpetual dread of the mistake he knows he will eventually make that will prove his undoing; an irascible partner who is the firm's czar of litigation, pursuing a particularly convoluted and litigious divorce case;  a humorless young blueblooded associate fighting a losing battle to preserve his aristocratic values when faced with a rich, sleazy Armenian client; the unwanted middle-aged wife of a partner, himself a heel who decides to dump her, and her unplanned and unexpected revenge; the battle between two society dowagers (one aided by her lawyer) for social supremacy in a Maine harbor resort; and finally, the senior partner at 58 contemplating an offer to abandon the law and become president of his alma mater, a small northeastern college.  <br />By turns witty, shrewd, humorous (a feature not always conspicuous in Auchincloss's work), characterized by the deft, telling phrase and incisive repartee, the book is a sharply observed, well-written tour de force, the right length, and compulsively readable.  I first read it when it came out in 1963, have just re-read it, and find that it holds up quite well.  <br />Auchincloss would like to see himself as a writer in the genteel tradition of Henry James and Edith Wharton; he is in fact more in the genteel tradition of John P. Marquand.  His main fault is his glib facility:  writing is too easy for him; he was written too much; and too much of it, smoothly ushered in on its cushion of graceful, well-oiled prose, is pallid, thin, brittle, superficial; too much of it is engaging enough while you're reading it, but forgettable, leaving no lasting imprint.  This fault is minimized but not absent here.  This is not a profound or searching book, but a delightful, enjoyable read, and a fine representation of a worthwhile if over-productive modern American author.	2002-09-23
US	53007016	R209RI594P7DAL	0395073626	564414422	The Embezzler	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A fine, enjoyable read	This novel, one of Auchincloss's best and from his prime period, is the life story of ill-fated Guy Prime, who was born into a minor blueblooded branch of New York society, enjoyed a gilded youth, eventually earned lasting ignominy when his embezzlements were revealed, resulting in his indictment, trial, Congressional hearing (it's 1936 and he is made a poster boy for Wall Street corruption by the New Deal), and imprisonment, and spent the nondescript remainder of his life in Panama isolated from all his family, friends, and associates, waiting to die.  He is an intriguing, complex character, by no means all bad, and his story is told by three narrators:  himself, his best friend (and eventual nemesis), and his wife.  This multiple-narrator technique, \\"surrounding\\" the central character from a Rasohomon-like multiplicity of differing perspectives, had been successfully employed by Auchincloss in his most famous novel, The Rector of Justin (1964), the novel immediately preceding this one, and it works effectively here too.  The book is well written, the right length, and compulsively readable.  I first read it when it came out in 1966, have just re-read it, and find that it holds up quite well.	2002-09-20
US	53007016	R23S019VUE9A78	0618224890	326161298	The Rector of Justin: A Novel	Books	5	46	53	N	N	A minor modern classic	If you're going to read only one novel by the prolific American writer Louis Auchincloss, this is the one to read.  It is a minor modern classic and represents Auchincloss's best work during what I regard as his prime period.  The Rector of Justin tells the life story, from schoolboy to death at age 85, of Frank Prescott (Dr. Francis Prescott), rector/headmaster/founder of the exclusive New England Episcopalian boys' school Justin Martyr (a famous prep school), by means of six narrators, male and female, whose attitudes toward their subject range from veneration to hatred.   It's an effective method of \\"surrounding\\" the elusive, somewhat larger-than-life central character, and the book is well written, the right length, and compulsively readable.  I first read it when it came out in 1964, have just re-read it, and find that it holds up quite well.  Auchincloss's main fault is his glib facility:  writing is too easy for him; he was written too much; and too much of it, smoothly ushered in on its cushion of graceful, well-oiled prose, is pallid, thin, brittle, superficial; too much of it is engaging enough while you're reading it, but forgettable, leaving no lasting imprint.  This fault is minimized but not absent here.  This is not a profound or searching book, but an excellent, enjoyable read, and a fine introduction to a worthwhile if over-productive modern author.	2002-09-09
US	53007016	R3M8GZ4DTZQJJ4	0425167720	89472327	An Instance of the Fingerpost	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Inriguing but overlong	The great weakness of this book is its prolixity:  it is simply much too long.  An engaging, well written historical murder mystery, with a background of rival ambitions and political and religious faction and intrigue, set in Oxford in the Restoration England of 1663, it is ingenious, witty, deftly plotted, filled with a rogues' gallery of colorful although not necessarily very believable characters (the heroine is particularly hard to swallow), has a surprise ending, and is of considerable historical interest.  Many of the characters are real historical personages (e.g., Robert Boyle, John Locke, Christopher Wren).  One feels the author has done his homework and knows his period, but he is too much enamored of his erudition and glib facility, to the detriment of his tale.  The story is told, Rashomon-like, by four narrators:  a visiting Italian physician (who may be much more) drawn into the circle of several Oxford men of science and learning; an Oxford student and young madman with his own axe to grind at any cost; a malicious, unscrupulous, egotistical Oxford mathematician and divine with secret ties to high government officials; and an eccentric, ineffectual Oxford antiquarian scholar who is smitten with the heroine and scorned by his peers.  Each is quite different from the others, and the truth gradually begins to emerge as their radically divergent versions of the events unfold.  <br />The trouble is that the book is 700 pages long, when it ought to be, say, 400 pages long.  There are precious few murder mysteries, even learned historical ones, that merit a 700-page treatment; this isn't one of them.  It is much too ponderous and slow-moving; it is larded with too many lengthy passages of philosophizing, moralizing, adducing quotations from \\"authorities,\\" reflecting and meditating and agonizing over this and that, that impede the forward motion of the narrative; all too frequently one wants to prod the author to get on with it.  The events here, the story to be told, simply don't justify a book of this length.  An aggressive editor not afraid to brandish his red pen fearlessly could have made this a much better read.	2002-09-07
US	53007016	RT5Q6ABTKRD81	0679450440	483248967	Protect and Defend	Books	4	32	42	N	N	An engrossing read, but flawed	I've read all of Richard North Patterson's books and enjoyed them, some of them keenly (especially The Final Judgment and Silent Witness).  He's good at what he does, and getting better:  his books have shown reasonably steady growth as a writer.  This book represents a departure for him.  Constructed with painstaking skill, it is his most impressive performance to date in terms of mature thoughtfulness about serious issues.  Unlike his previous efforts, this one is not a &quot;thriller&quot; in any conventional sense-there's no murder, no crime, no whodunit to solve-although there is certainly suspense, skillfully orchestrated, of a more cerebral, less visceral nature.  This book turns on two inter-related issues:  the contentious confirmation of a new President's controversial nominee for Chief Justice of the Supreme Court (a woman), and a thorny, complex constitutional legal case involving a pregnant teenager, late-term abortion, and parental consent.  It may be missing the elements of a conventional thriller, but it's still an expertly crafted page-turner.  <br />What troubles me is its political dimension.  This is a book that has an intensely political setting:  all the characters are distinguished by their political beliefs, ties, and alignments.  Unfortunately it's a simplistically black-and-white political world:  all the good guys, the guys in white hats, are liberal Democrats and pro-choicers, representing the forces of light; and all the bad guys, those in black hats, are conservative Republicans and pro-lifers, representing the forces of darkness.  It's just about that cut and dried.  The good guys are a pretty stereotypical bunch:  these characters are attractive, sympathetic, ethical, loyal, enlightened and progressive, trying to do the right thing, etc.  The bad guys are, regrettably, even more stereotypical:  a group of cynical, mean-spirited nasties, they represent the forces of bigotry, narrowness, scandal-mongering, backbiting, special-interest money and sleazy pressures and tactics, shady, backroom political machinations and villainous dirty dealing, etc.  (The sole exception, a key character, is an influential, maverick, loose-cannon Republican senator, not a team player with the Republican forces of evil, who has presidential ambitions, is an ex-POW and war hero, and champions campaign finance reform-sound like anyone you recognize?) <br />If you're a liberal Democrat, I suppose you're likely to find Mr. Patterson's simple-minded and all-too-apparent political sympathies congenial; if you aren't, you probably won't.  This is a book, in short, that Al Gore is a lot more likely to relish than Bob Dole.  I found the shallow, black-and-white political stereotyping an unfortunate blemish in a book that is notably well crafted and mature in argument in other respects.  Indeed, the book's maturity and sophistication of legal argument comports oddly, even jarringly, with its pat, simplistic, reductive political scheme; the trenchant analysis of women's reproductive rights and the wit and shrewdness of the convincing courtroom scenes (always a strong suit of lawyer Patterson) make odd bedfellows with the cardboard-character level of the political posturing.  It's hard to believe that the same author was responsible for both.  <br />This blemish doesn't render the book an unenjoyable read, certainly; Patterson's adroitness and expertise ensure that.  But for me it does diminish the achievement and advance that the book otherwise represents.  And fans of Patterson should be aware that those expecting a thriller/murder mystery/whodunit in the vein of his earlier books are going to find something quite different here:  some may be pleasantly surprised at this &quot;stretch&quot; to grapple with serious issues; others may feel disappointed and even cheated of what they were expecting.  And speaking of feeling disappointed and cheated, I bought a brand new hardbound copy of this book, and by the time I got halfway through it (the book hasn't been dropped, manhandled, or mistreated in any way), pages were coming loose from the binding and falling out in chunks into my hands.  I might not have been so surprised at this if I'd bought an el cheapo paperback, but for a new hardbound book from a reputable publisher, this inexcusably shoddy quality came as an unpleasant jolt.  Shame on you, Alfred A. Knopf!  Caveat emptor.	2001-10-17
US	53007016	RNTPONR3ZRGN1	0195103300	70442911	The Concerto: A Listener's Guide	Books	5	28	30	N	N	Indispensable	A wonderful book.  Michael Steinberg is probably the premier writer of program notes for symphony orchestra concerts in the English-speaking world, and his two books,  The Symphony:  A Listener's Guide (Oxford University Press, 1995, 678 pages), and its companion volume The Concerto:  A Listener's Guide (Oxford UP, 1998, 506 pages), are probably the two best collections of program notes on the symphony and the concerto that have ever been published in English.  Steinberg formerly wrote the program notes for the Boston Symphony Orchestra and currently writes them for the New York Philharmonic and the San Francisco Symphony Orchestra.  He was music critic of the Boston Globe for twelve years.  These two books come with glowing recommendations from such distinguished musical figures as Seiji Ozawa, Michael Tilson Thomas, Andre Previn, Herbert Blomstedt, Roger Norrington, and John Adams.  Speaking as one who has attended countless symphony orchestra concerts on the East Coast, West Coast, and in Dallas for more than forty years, and has always read the program notes, I can say that I've never read any as good as these.  They are readable, learned, witty, accessible, and delightful, full of important biographical and historical information, and of course musical description, evaluation, and analysis that is genuinely illuminating and enlightening, without being so technical you need to be a musicologist or seated at a piano to understand it.  (Inevitably, there are some musical examples, but these are relatively few, usually fairly simple, and you don't have to understand them to grasp the meaning of the text.)  I  would recommend these two books strongly to any lover of classical music, anyone who attends symphony orchestra concerts.<br />Having said this, I can't help noting a few unfortunate omissions.  No Haydn trumpet concerto, no Rodrigo Concierto de Aranjuez (indeed, no trumpet or guitar concerti at all).  No Handel Concerti Grossi, Opus 6, and, a truly surprisingomission, no Vivaldi Four Seasons.  Vivaldi and Telemann, the two most prolific composers of concerti, are not to be found in Steinberg's book; indeed, the entire Baroque period, during which the concerto form flowered and proliferated, is ignored with the sole exception of J. S. Bach.  Otherwise, I'd say that all the concertos you would reasonably expect to find in such a book are included here.<br />Despite these omissions, I recommend this book and its companion volume warmly and wouldn't be without them.  Now I wish Mr. Steinberg and Oxford University Press would give us a third volume, covering the large body of orchestral music that is neither symphony nor concerto (such as tone poems and symphonic suites and dances, ballets and ballet suites, incidental music to plays and pageants, major overtures and preludes, et al.).	2001-09-17
US	53007016	R1L9H1IBPF9YHP	0195061772	800147879	The Symphony: A Listener's Guide	Books	5	48	52	N	N	Indispensable	A wonderful book.  Michael Steinberg is probably the premier writer of program notes for symphony orchestra concerts in the English-speaking world, and his two books,  The Symphony:  A Listener's Guide (Oxford University Press, 1995, 678 pages), and its companion volume The Concerto:  A Listener's Guide (Oxford UP, 1998, 506 pages), are probably the two best collections of program notes on the symphony and the concerto that have ever been published in English.  Steinberg formerly wrote the program notes for the Boston Symphony Orchestra and currently writes them for the New York Philharmonic and the San Francisco Symphony Orchestra.  He was music critic of the Boston Globe for twelve years.  These two books come with glowing recommendations from such distinguished musical figures as Seiji Ozawa, Michael Tilson Thomas, Andre Previn, Herbert Blomstedt, Roger Norrington, and John Adams.  Speaking as one who has attended countless symphony orchestra concerts on the East Coast, West Coast, and in Dallas for more than forty years, and has always read the program notes, I can say that I've never read any as good as these.  They are readable, learned, witty, accessible, and delightful, full of important biographical and historical information, and of course musical description, evaluation, and analysis that is genuinely illuminating and enlightening, without being so technical you need to be a musicologist or seated at a piano to understand it.  (Inevitably, there are some musical examples, but these are relatively few, usually fairly simple, and you don't have to understand them to grasp the meaning of the text.)  I  would recommend these two books strongly to any lover of classical music, anyone who attends symphony orchestra concerts.<br />Having said this, I can't help noting a few unfortunate omissions.  The Symphony is a thick book and perhaps one is ungenerous to cavil at such a generous and generally inclusive and comprehensive volume.  All the Beethoven symphoniesare included, of course, as are all the symphonies of Brahms and Schumann, and all the major symphonies of Haydn (only two symphonies before No. 86), Mozart (no Mozart symphonies earlier than No. 35, &quot;Haffner&quot;), Tchaikovsky (three symphonies), Dvorak (four symphonies), and Bruckner (six symphonies).  The two greatest twentieth-century symphonists, Mahler and Sibelius, are covered in full, including all of their published symphonies and the unfinished Mahler Tenth (but not the early Sibelius &quot;Kullervo&quot; symphony). The third great twentieth-century symphonist, Shostakovich, is represented by seven of his fifteen symphonies.  Both Elgar symphonies are included.  The most striking lapses are in the French repertoire:  the Franck D minor symphony and the Saint-Saens Third (&quot;Organ&quot;) are unaccountably omitted, and these are serious omissions.  The Schubert Fifth is omitted.  Copland is represented by his Second (&quot;Short Symphony&quot;), not his much better known and more frequently performed Third.  The same can be said of Hanson, who is represented by his Fourth (&quot;Requiem&quot;), not his Second (&quot;Romantic&quot;).  Among the moderns, there are some strangely arbitrary (and, one suspects, personal) choices and omissions:  for example, Roy Harris' Third is omitted, although symphonies by Harbison and Hartmann are included; the Harris is surely better established in the standard repertoire than either of these composers.  For Vaughan Williams, two of his most popular and accessible  symphonies, the First (&quot;Sea&quot;) and Second (&quot;London&quot;), are omitted in favor three later symphonies (only 4, 5, and 6 are covered).  <br />Despite these omissions, I recommend this book and its companion volume warmly and wouldn't be without them.  Now I wish Mr. Steinberg and Oxford University Press would give us a third volume, covering the large body of orchestral music that is neither symphony nor concerto (such as tone poems and symphonic suites and dances, ballets and ballet suites, incidental music to plays and pageants, major overtures and preludes, et al.).	2001-09-17
US	53007016	RY7KDRSCS1TL5	0805066322	236286596	In Harm's Way: The Sinking of the USS Indianapolis and the Extraordinary Story of Its Survivors	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A compelling read	I found this an excellent new book that is fascinating, moving, and hard to put down. It was loaned to me and strongly recommended by a friend who is a retired naval officer.  I found the book so absorbing that I've sat up past 3 AM the last two nights reading it.  It's well written, in a style that is simple, direct, and vivid, and well documented.  I recommend it.	2001-07-14
US	53007016	R32G9B79R7ABFM	0684846098	975528807	Nothing Like It in the World: The Men Who Built the Transcontinental Railroad, 1863-1869	Books	3	112	118	N	N	Inferior to Bain's recent book on the same subject	I've read, enjoyed, and valued other histories by Ambrose, but this is not one of his best efforts.  If you are seriously interested in the building of the first transcontinental railroad, get and read David Haward Bain's monumental Empire Express:  Building the First Transcontinental Railroad (Viking, 1999, 797 pages), the result of fourteen years of research and the definitive modern treatment of this subject.  Ambrose's book has the misfortune to follow on the heels of Bain's, and it cannot seriously compete with it.  Bain's book is truly comprehensive and thorough, a labor of love; in comparison Ambrose's seems somewhat perfunctory and superficial, just another installment in the assembly line of books Ambrose has been cranking out in recent years.  If you will compare the two books you will see what I mean.	2000-09-23
US	53007016	R3PSST6NIHFQ25	0865473129	667336682	Jean de Florette & Manon of the Springs	Books	5	39	39	N	N	Masterful, rich, rewarding	(The two novels read as one, the second simply taking up--with no exposition--where the first leaves off.) One of the best books I've read in the last decade.  Simple, charming, and often very funny, but also  poignant,  moving, characterized by profound human understanding,  generating surprising emotional power, and rising to the haunting grandeur  of genuine tragedy.  The sharp, insightful portrayals of the leading  Provence peasant characters are unforgettably vivid and &quot;right,&quot;  thoroughly convincing, and the evocations of their lives and speech and the  countryside through which they move could only have been written by a true  countryman.  A magnificent achievement and a great read.  Don't miss this  under-rated classic of modern French literature.	1999-01-23
US	53007016	R30R0OV519K7S4	0865473110	667336682	The Water of the Hills: Jean de Florette & Manon of the Springs: Two Novels by Marcel Pagnol	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Masterful, rich, rewarding	(The two novels read as one, the second simply taking up--with no exposition--where the first leaves off.) One of the best books I've read in the last decade.  Simple, charming, and often very funny, but also  poignant,  moving, characterized by profound human understanding,  generating surprising emotional power, and rising to the haunting grandeur  of genuine tragedy.  The sharp, insightful portrayals of the leading  Provence peasant characters are unforgettably vivid and &quot;right,&quot;  thoroughly convincing, and the evocations of their lives and speech and the  countryside through which they move could only have been written by a true  countryman.  A magnificent achievement and a great read.  Don't miss this  under-rated classic of modern French literature.	1999-01-22
US	53007016	R334S57ZHTK5D0	0865472572	821786182	My Father's Glory & My Mother's Castle: Marcel Pagnol's Memories of Childhood	Books	5	16	18	N	N	A real charmer	(The two books read as one, the second simply taking up--with no exposition--where the first leaves off.)  These simple, sunny, nostalgic memoirs of a small boy's happy youth and adventures in the bosom of his  loving and often very funny family in Marseilles and the hills of Provence  in the early years of this century will captivate anyone who isn't a real  Scrooge.  They are filled with human understanding, warmth, and humor.   Charming and absolutely delightful.  Not to be missed.	1999-01-22
US	53007016	R3MY5GHRE73CVK	0060925000	832364601	A Suitable Boy	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A magnificent read!	This is easily the finest new novel I've read in the last ten years.  Don't be put off by its mammoth length.  A writer of major talent; a novel of remarkable skill and breadth.  This Tolstoyan saga of four families teems with characters and action that are compelling and utterly convincing; the novel is of such scope that by the end we have a living portrait of a whole society.  This is a novel you will be sorry to see come to an end.  Do yourself a favor and don't miss it.  Highest recommendation.	1998-04-30
US	53007016	RT1BFJEY8I493	0393034445	315824515	The Metropolitan Opera Guide to Recorded Opera	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Indispensable	No one who buys and enjoys recorded opera should be without this book, which I have owned and used since its publication.  I consult it regularly and regard it as indispensable to any serious lover of recorded opera.  To quote from the dustjacket, \\"a corps of experienced music critics and discophiles evaluate all the complete recordings of 150 operas by 71 composers\\"-all, that is, through 1992.  It  is unique-the only book of its kind in print and I believe the only one that has been attempted on so generous and comprehensive a scale.  EVERY complete opera recording of the covered operas (including all the standard repertoire and many more esoteric operas), from the earliest days of complete opera recordings through 1992, receives a paragraph-length review, succinctly summarizing its strengths and weaknesses.  (Opera buffs should note that &quot;pirated&quot; live recordings are not included, except in a few cases of legitimized &quot;pirates.&quot;) The roster of participating critics is distinguished and the standard of criticism is high, as is the standard of wit, style, and general intelligence and perceptiveness of the reviews; inevitably there are some reviewers and some reviews one doesn't agree with, but where that happens, the grounds of disagreement will generally be clear.  Overall the book represents an ambitious conception and quite a successful execution.  I've spent many happy hours in this book, and it will quickly repay you for its modest cost simply in terms of the mediocre and worse recordings it will prevent you from wasting time and money on. Strongly recommended.	1998-04-29
US	53007016	R1IBTGBN85RTEB	1880909502	130263344	Corelli: A Man, A Voice (Great Voices 5)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	A mixed bag (but see review)	Franco Corelli, who sang from 1951 to 1975, was the greatest tenore di forza of the postwar era.  A powerful and exciting singer, never a subtle or refined one, he had his detractors, but there can be no argument about the quality of his voice. Now comes what I believe is the first book about Corelli in English (a translation of the Italian edition of 1990).  I have been an admirer of Corelli, a collector of his recordings, and a follower of his career since the late 1950s, so I opened this book with considerable relish.  Alas, it is a very mixed bag.  It consists of five distinct and readily separable parts.  First, a compact disc is included, containing an excellent and generous collection of Corelli operatic arias and duets, 21 wide-ranging and well-chosen &quot;live&quot; selections, recorded from 1954 to 1968.  Second, there is a &quot;biography&quot; by Marina Boagno, 227 pages of text.  Third, there is a surprisingly copious section of 120 photographs of Corelli in his various roles and at various stages of his career.  Third, there is a chronology of his career by Gilberto Starone, detailing year by year just what roles and concerts he sang, when and where.  Fourth, there is a discography, also by Starone, including all known Corelli studio recordings as well as pirated or &quot;live&quot; recordings, of which there are many. The CD, the section of photographs, the chronology, and the discography are all conscientiously done and sufficiently useful in themselves to recommend the purchase of this book to anyone who admires or is interested in Corelli. The fly in the ointment is Ms. Boagno's &quot;biography,&quot; which is not a biography at all, but a bizarre grab-bag of excerpts from reviews of Corelli performances and a patchwork quilt of comments by his colleagues and critics, with extended commentary by Ms. Boagno.  While some of the review excerpts and quotes from colleagues are interesting and revealing; Ms. Boagno's commentary rarely illuminates and often reads like padding.  Whether the fault is hers or the translator's, the writing is inept, verbose, awkward, and mostly dull.  As a &quot;biographer&quot; she hasn't even begun to do her homework: anyone buying this book in search of biographical information about Corelli will be disappointed; we finish the book knowing almost as little about Corelli the man as when we began it.  Indeed, there is an almost complete lack of biographical facts, dates, objective data and information; there is nothing here of the rigorous, objective, well-researched biography which would command respect.  Instead we get a longwinded, rambling, subjective and always defensive commentary on Corelli's voice, career, roles, and singing habits; there is no probing intelligence at work here, just a fan uncritically defending and &quot;puffing&quot; the object of her adulation.  Corelli deserved a better book than this.  So, for anyone interested in undertaking a responsible biography of the great tenor, the field is still wide open.  But if you like Corelli the other parts of this book make it worth owning.	1998-04-01
