US	53002113	R1XZEIVCTIG7CY	0892819138	61718353	Shamanism and Tantra in the Himalayas	Books	4	40	40	N	N	More Shamanic than Tantric	The purpose of this work is to explore the worlds of Shamanism and Tantra, specifically in Nepal, not all over the Himalayas, as the title would suggest. The authors divide the subject up into just over 30 major themes and then exposit to varying depths on the particular facets. Each chapter is a mixture of their personal experiences, the reports of their Shaman friends, relevant side-bar quotations from a wide range of sources, and full color photography from beginning to end. Over all, it has some very clear strengths and weaknesses.<br />On the positive side, the pages are dripping with stunning photography. Rich color reproduction shows off the details of the Shamanic world, Nepal, and over 50 gorgeous paintings of the relevant deities. These paintings are given their own descriptive addendum to insure they are properly appreciated. The majority of what is discussed in the text is pictured somewhere nearby, so if anything is unclear there is immediate visual help at hand. The text itself is clear, engaging, and stock full of details, many of which appear to have been overlooked by other authors writing both on the Himalayan region itself and on Shamanism in general. This wealth of information is because the authors were not satisfied with being arm-chair anthropologists, but spent over a decade among the Nepalese Shamans, becoming their friends, gaining their trust, and being allowed into their world. They are very sympathetic to this view of reality and write about it with passion, so it's rarely boring.<br />On the other hand, there are some problems. First, despite the size and the comments in the other review, don't be misled into thinking this is encyclopedic. It isn't, and the authors clearly say so themselves. Their major focus is on making available data that is not found in most run of the mill books on Shamanism in this region. The general picture is there, but the details focus on trying to shed light where there has been little before. For this reason, it probably isn't the first book on Shamanism you would want to read. Second, if it's the Tantra angle that interests you, there is very little on it. There is so little, in fact, that there is really only one sustained discussion on it, which is only part of one chapter. The other information is scattered throughout the rest of the book's discussion on Shamanism. Again, this isn't the first book on Tantra you would want to read, but if you know enough about Tantra to connect the dots yourself it provides some really interesting links and suggestions regarding how the two worldviews relate, both doctrinally, artistically, and historically. On the picky side, the text suffers various lapses that will annoy people to different levels. Those involved with religious studies will be progressively irritated with the naive philosophy of religion that the authors display. Despite the book being a monument to the fact that Shamanism functions as a religion, they insist it isn't. They also claim it involves no faith, again in the face of many things presented in the work that must be accepted by faith. In fact, a number of the statements of the Shamans in here are factually inaccurate, yet nothing, no matter how far out, is ever questioned in the slightest, nor is the epistemological problem this casts on the information they gain from their trips, whether on hallucinogens or not, ever discussed. Social and psychological aspects that effect the Shamanic interpretations and the authors' research methodology are dismissed, if not completely ignored. If things like that don't bother you, the sloppy inconsistency on points might. For example, on the exact same page (186) they proclaim that destructive energies can be both destroyed and not destroyed. How about their claim on page 13 that \\"shamanism only exists in specific areas of Asia\\" today, which is contradicted by their displayed knowledge of it in the Americas elsewhere in the book? These should not be confused with the numerous contradictions between the various Shamanic schools that are presented, which are given for completeness. Finally, and this would not be worth mentioning if it didn't come up so many times in a book repeatedly promoting love, harmony and understanding: at least one of the authors is anti-Christian to the point of unreasonable bigotry. It ranges from statements of factual error (such as Christianity not being an historically oriented religion) to slander (such as the long disproved accusation that Wycliffe translation teams are covert CIA operatives, for which the authors can only provide a specious debunked source over 20 years old).<br />All that aside, I bought it, read it, and it has a secure place in my library as a resource I can see returning to many times in the future. It's pricey, but it's worth it. It's the only book I've ever had where I constantly caught people stopped in their tracks looking at the pictures over my shoulder and interrupting my reading to find out what it was.	2003-04-24
US	53002113	R13D4TR7G8F94T	0192892231	195997737	The Foundations of Buddhism (Opus S)	Books	5	233	234	N	N	Real Buddhism	Having studied Buddhism privately and academically for over 20 years I usually consider introductory works not worth the bother. When I saw the outraged comments from the one-star reviewer below, however, I thought that this could be an interesting work. As another stated, most presentations of Buddhism that are made for Westerners are usually filtered to some extent, particularly older ones that are taking the Buddhism-is-the-secular-religion-for-us-grown-up-Westerners routine. Unlike Mr. Martin, I own and have bothered to read many of the early Buddhist writings, and they are chock full of the kind of things he claims are not part of Buddhism. The author of this book takes it all on the chin and doesn't let it faze him a bit. He's more interested in telling about both the story and teachings of Buddhism as they really were and, at core, still are, rather than keeping Western devotees comfortable. <br />And what an introduction! Take all those 5 star reviews seriously. I was repeatedly impressed with the clarity of prose and vision Gethin demonstrates while explaining even some of the most difficult to grasp Buddhist philosophical concepts. Things that it took two hours for some of my teachers to communicate to the point that students actually understood are brilliantly exposited with delightful comprehension in just a few pages. It takes a real grasp of the field to pull this off, and Gethin does it over and over. Illuminating charts, penetrating text, and, thank goodness, a topical bibliography to mine for years...what more could you want? If you want to read a book that will leave you with a solid understanding of core, foundational, Buddhist concepts, instead of a fluffy semi-New Age ransacking of the tradition to pamper Western assumptions about the self and the cosmos, look no further. As soon as this is submitted, I am sending an email to the professor at the Buddhist college I attend to look at this work for inclusion in the texts for our introductory survey course. Peter Harvey's and Walpola Rahula's introductory works are both on the schedule already, along with a third that will go unnamed, which Gethin simply stomps into the dirt for value. \\"The Foundations of Buddhism\\" clearly belongs in such stellar company and hopefully this Fall will be benefiting students alongside them.	2003-04-24
US	53002113	R2FPY8EJ7CQBQ1	0316042757	99713302	The Tomb of God: The Body of Jesus and the Solution to a 2,000-Year-Old Mystery	Books	3	16	25	N	N	The Tomb of Rennes le Chateau Jesus Theories	There are two distinct aspects to this book. First, a detailed argument involving geography, geometry, art theory, and esoteric occultism in the attempt to prove that the answer to what made Sauniere rich was, and may still be, buried in a mountain near his church. It is demanding reading, but certainly interesting. At points one is unsure whether the authors are making their point or seeing what they want to see, but it's a fun ride and when it all appears to work out in reality on the ground in Southern France, rather convincing. Unfortunately, the critical approach they take in this section, even to their own ideas, disappears in the next section.<br />Second, is a story about what is in that mountain and how it got there. The further they go into this, the more ridiculous it becomes. Speculation is piled on assumption, all of which is later taken as fact without any real proof or argument, until anyone who has read a balanced book on Christ, the early church, etceteras, will find it unbelievable. Certainly, there is a mystery surrounding Rennes le Chateau, but it's time to dump all the Jesus speculation and get back to something with more plausibility, whether it is an esoteric teaching or gold from the Second Temple. It simply is not Jesus, whether His historical teachings, bloodline, or body. This is clearly shown by how quickly all these authors run straight out of their area of specialty and deep into outright speculation that no-one with even a basic background in these areas would accept. That they don't know what they're talking about in this area and their willingness to accept any fringe theory that gives support to their conjectures reflects badly on the reliability of the rest of their work. If I can't trust what they say in the area I know about, how am I suppose to trust what they say in the rest of the book? Maybe they were playing just as fast and loose with some things there, too? <br />The key chapter for this second route relies on Barbara Thiering's work, which most New Testament scholars think is crank. And when the authors are doing their own (almost completely undocumented) reconstruction of early church history we get nothing new. Instead there's a rehash of warmed over, long debunked speculation regarding the Essenes, the Dead Sea Scrolls, Gnosticism, Paul's place in the early church, etceteras; even the old liberal swoon theory of the resurrection, which was so weak it was immediately refuted by other liberal scholars in the 1800s. They also overstate the tension between Paul and the Jerusalem church, then claim that after James was murdered Christianity did not return to Jerusalem until the crusades. Huh? Did aliens abduct the entire Eastern Orthodox Church for a thousand years? And where did the EOC come from? Largely from the efforts of the Jerusalem disciples whom A & S seem to think were sitting around on their collective ass in Jerusalem doing nothing (except allegedly converting to Gnosticism). And if Paul was so out of step with these people, why did they twice confirm his message and ministry in Jerusalem, and how do you explain the doctrinal agreements of what would eventually become the Pauline and non-Pauline EOC and Catholic churches through the Seven Ecumenical Councils? So \\"black-wash-the-Catholics\\" are these writers that they don't even seem to know that the EOC exists; going on to portray the entire early church as Roman! The authors also have a bad habit of projecting their ignorance of the field on everyone else. For example, even though Christian publishers have put out dozens of books on Gnosticism, and it is discussed in virtually every book and class on the early church, A & S proclaim it a  dark secret kept from Christians. What is this non-sense for? Simple: it creates the empty spaces into which they can insert their baseless speculations. <br />Either way, this is typical of the level of Rennes writings when it goes this direction, and is an excellent argument for why itshould be abandoned. The part of this book that deals more directly with Rennes le Chateau, Sauniere, the history of ins and outs surrounding the mystery, is a gripping X-File come to life, as are the comparable parts of equivalent works. As soon as they go off into this other stuff, however, it simply loses all credibility. Honesty, folks, this isn't hidden information; it's available in virtually any \\"For Dummies\\" level book on the subject. This is what happens when your theory either outstrips or ignores the actual evidence and begins to create the evidence. They pretty much admit to doing this on page 397 and 386. How are we to trust people whose operating assumptions include \\"In the absence of conclusive evidence, one can speculate...\\" and \\"...we studied these events and the early origins of the Christian Church in the light of our discovery of the Secret...\\".  Speculation, assumption, and circular reasoning never make a reliable conclusion.	2003-02-23
US	53002113	R1IX14HRNTM24M	0830731245	734150405	Secrets of the Koran: Revealing Insight into Islam's Holy Book	Books	3	18	26	N	N	Mr. Blunt Versus Muhammad	The way things are today, this book is the equivalent of running through New York Central Park at two in the morning with a transparent bag of money. I have never seen an author so seemingly out to become a target; in his case, of every radical Muslim on the face of the planet. Richardson admits that his information is mostly not new, having been culled from other authors critical and/or skeptical of the Koran. You will find a lot of Warraq, Muir, Dashti, Lester, Rodinson, and Ye'or in these pages. He is also careful to point out that the vast majority of Muslims are not the terrorists he's after, but peace loving people. His thesis, however, is that both Western and Muslim peoples are greatly ignorant of the real content of the Koran, having substituted the views of white-washing Muslim apologists for actually reading it and seeing what's really in there. The above other authors have also tread this water to various extents, but what makes Richardson differ is his attitude. My forte is Buddhism and Christianity, putting me out of my league here, so I can't comment on the validity of what he says, other than to note, as above, that he isn't alone in his assessment; but, good grief, is he ever rude and snide about it! He seems to be frustrated that Muslims are given a free ride in the media when they criticize Christians and the Bible, but, to paraphrase him, let a Christian raise a peep against Muhammad or the Koran and you would think that someone had painted a swastika on the side of a synagogue. He also seems to sincerely believe that millions of people, both in the Western and Muslim worlds, have been seriously hood-winked about the real events in the life of Muhammad and what the Koran really teaches about things like violence, the treatment of women, etceteras, and he wants to wake them up to this peril. Given these points, I can understand, but not condone, his way of stating them. Most people who have looked into it realize that there are enough controversial points in the Koran and the history of Islam to cause concern among many non-Muslims. Dealing with these things is what keeps Muslim apologists in business. What is presented in the book from the Koran and Muslim sources speaks for itself and doesn't need Richardson's condescending commentary; it is disconcerting enough on its own. Adding things like \\"Mohammed could not even reach up to touch the underside of the moral standards of an average rogue\\" does not help. Richardson is certainly entitled to his opinion, and has every right to state it, but sometimes the point of freedom of speech isn't the freedom to say anything one wants, but the freedom to say what needs to be said. He certainly says what he thinks needs to be said, but then dirties himself by pushing it beyond the realm of respectful criticism. If you can separate his asides from the actual data, this book is a wide ranging summary, on a popular level, of most criticism from a more scholarly level that has been leveled against Muhammad and the Koran. If you want to see it done without the attitude, read Ye'or's \\"Islam and Dhimmitude\\" 0838639437, or Warraq's two collections of essays by critical scholars: \\"The Origins of the Koran\\" 157392198X, and \\"The Quest for the Historical Muhammad\\" 1573927872. Goodwin's \\"Price of Honor\\" 0452274303 is another good stop. All of these are available at Amazon.	2003-02-08
US	53002113	RLFNPETHJ7KY7	0953299244	434264789	Evangelicalism and the Orthodox Church: A Report by the Evangelical Alliance Commission on Unity and Truth among Evangelicals ACUTE	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A State of the Union and Disunion Survey	This book comes out of work and discussions being carried on between Evangelical and Orthodox believers in the UK. As such, it reads like an overview of issues meant to be a guide for directing further conversations. One thus does not find a deep and sustained handling of the issues, but a survey of key areas in the Christians faith, showing where the two groups involved find consonance and caution. By the end, you have a clear understanding that there are large areas of belief and practice that they share as part of the Great Tradition, but there are also some pretty significant ways the two groups can diverge. Most interesting is where the author takes what looks like a disagreement and shows that Evangelicals and the Orthodox may be closer to each other than they might normally assume. With the growing interest in Orthodoxy among Protestants, particularly in North America, this is a good orientation to what can be, on first encounter, a very confusing terrain.	2003-01-03
US	53002113	RSK85H3UQBVZR	0830826920	476412846	A Tapestry of Faiths: The Common Threads Between Christianity & World Religions	Books	5	26	28	N	N	Maybe Not What You Think	The title might lead you to believe that this is one of those books arguing that Christianity and other religions are all teaching the same thing, but that would be wrong. Corduan has written many good works on this subject, and this one is no exception. Here, however, rather than surveying the religions, he attempts to build a systematic way of relating them socially, historically, and theologically, from a Biblical worldview. He is basically attempting to answer this question: if Christianity is accurate, how do we account for the world religions in a way that honors their integrity without sacrificing our own key beliefs. This is one of the best kicks at that can that I have seen. He cuts his way through a lot of syncretist sloppiness to get at the real meat of where the religions agree with Christianity, and why, as well as graceously dissecting the differences, even where there is seeming surface and ethical agreement, such that one learns not to read too much into certain similarities. The one chapter I thought needed a lot more work was the second. Corduan has relied for many years on the theory of original monotheism; that, contrary to a lot of popular thought on the subject, the religions are not an evolution toward monotheism, but represent a devolution away from it. It's nice to see him argue for it in more detail here than he ever has, but given the sparce information currently available on this position, it really needs more development. Frankly, I would like to see an entire up to date survey and analysis book on the topic. Still, this book is full of a lot of clear headed thought on the subjects revolving around the relationships of the religions to Christianity, leading to many well balanced conclusions and ideas.	2003-01-03
US	53002113	ROR0P8QT45401	0830823522	525016152	Faith in the Byzantine World (Ivp Histories)	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Those Other Christians	Here in the West we tend to think of Christendom as being Protestant and Catholic, but there is a whole other world of Eastern Orthodox believers out there that we generally know little about. Most people probably gain their first reading exposure to this group through the works of Timothy Ware, which actually contain more information than this book, and comes up to current times. Though Cunningham's work is shorter, and pretty much restricts itself to the time between 330 and 1453, it does have the great advantage of containing a large number of beautiful full color photographs. These make the art, architecture, and locations of the Orthodox world of Byzantine times come immediately alive. The text is introductory, but hits all the important points of the history, politics, sociology, and culture of the times. It is a little thin on the theology, though there is a very interesting chapter on the worldview of the people. It is a good start for anyone looking for an easy to read introduction to the life and faith of this overlooked world.	2003-01-03
US	53002113	R1VUKZYO8HVYZL	0830725458	680631376	One Church, Many Tribes : Following Jesus the Way God Made You	Books	5	35	39	N	N	For More Than Just First Nations Believers	This book is half exploration of the Native experience with the Church, and half examination of how a Christian life should manifest itself in particular cultures. Twiss gives a good general introduction to the spectacularly poor manner in which First Nations peoples have been treated as not merely targets of evangelization, but as believers who did not find the alleged brotherhood of the faith either very brotherly or faithful. It is a sad, disgusting tale, made personal by the account of Chief Spokane Garry.<br />It is the rest of the book, however, where the hope shines through. Here, Twiss asks the darn good question: Why shouldn't First Nations persons use their own instruments, music, dress, and dance to honor God? Yes, why not? He expands the argument to include aboriginal peoples all around the world, and it is actually applicable to any culture that wonders why it's being fed the Western way as the alleged way things are to be done. He developes a careful, Biblically sensitive mindset on how to think through these issues, such that one can disassociate cultural items from an original context that may not have been consonant with Biblical values, and give them new life in the Christian worldview. It is a great vision of Christ transforming culture. When this type of thinking catches on around the world, the kingdom will grow in leaps and bounds. For anyone who feels their culture, or subculture, has been stepped on by middle-class Western values that someone has tried to hide in God's mouth, this book will help set you free to drum, create, dance, and dress in ways that both make sense to your people and honor your God.	2003-01-02
US	53002113	R2TCBHPBC28GRX	1883319005	315215170	The Guru Papers: Masks of Authoritarian Power	Books	3	93	113	N	N	And Now A Word From The Authoritarian Anti-Authoritarians	Since the authors are against people living divided lives, they would likely be concerned that I feel divided about their book. On the good side, there is a lot of insight into how authority can be used illegitimately by both ourselves and others for manipulative ends on both ourselves and others. As they have been involved in authoritarian groups teaching various Eastern views, they make quite a few points about the totalitarian nature that can be bred by both the gurus and worldview that emanates from that source; points I have seen others make, as well. Having been hurt by some alleged friends over the past few years, I felt personally helped and enlightened by their chapter on how love can be used as an abusive tool.  Overall, the work is for someone who wants to think at length about the relationship between self-guidance and authority over a wide range of issues, and is well worth reading.<br />On the other hand, there are some real problems here. Kramer & Alstad dont document a single thing they say, other than to refer to their other equally undocumented essays. Thus, ironically, this screed against authoritarianism must be accepted as the raw authoritarian assertion of the authors views. It functions just like the type of revelation they condemn. One also wonders what in the world they would build after tearing everything down? The impression is left that, despite throwing a bone to recognized authorities in specific fields, one should be free to do whatever one wants and not feel guilty about it, as long as no one gets hurt and the human race is assured of survival. They seem to bank heavily on the belief that once humans are fed the proper data they will adjust themselves into rational, humanistic oriented beings who are willing to allow no one gets hurt and the survival of the human race to stand as their authoritarian guides to conduct. Given the number of people who already dont seem to care who gets hurt or if humans are around after their own death, I dont seem to be able to raise much faith in this. Also, Im not convinced they understand the inner spiritual and moral dynamics of either Buddhism or Christianity as well as they try to make themselves appear to. Knowing people in both communities, I felt that at many points Kramer and Alstad were dealing in the fantasies of their own stereotypes and straw persons about these beliefs. They dont seem as widely read as they claim, or you would think they would have run into prominent authors, like John Piper, who advocate a self-needs aware compassion that seems to echo what they call for from a tradition they seem to think could never generate it. In fact, their entire understanding of what they call Christianity seems to really be Moralism, a view many, if not most, Christians would also reject. <br />This book is a series of excerpts from a larger promised work, called Control, which, going on ten years later, is yet to appear. Hal Blacker has posted online his meeting with the authors a few years after this work was published. Look it up. You might feel like I did: I wouldnt want the authoritarian people described in this book in control of my life, but, know what? I dont think Id want people like Kramer and Alstad running things, either.	2002-12-17
US	53002113	R2PY3HMUGT1X4N	0825430909	237945134	Concise Dictionary of the Occult and New Age	Books	1	9	16	N	N	Concise Dictionary of Misinformation	The authors of this book have no real expertise in this field. As my pre-Christian background is in paganism and I have studied Buddhism both academically and on my own for two decades, I'll restrict my comments to these areas. The errors in the articles range from factual (Buddhism) to slanderous (Wicca).<br />Regarding Buddhism, they don't seem to realize that Theravada is a form of Hinayana (sic), or that the later term is insulting, and claim that Mahayana de-emphasizes self denial! They read Christian meanings into Buddhist terms, thus claiming that Buddhists believe God is an impersonal abstract void (there is no God in Buddhism in the sense the authors mean), that Zen teaches that humans are inherently divine (again, not in the sense the authors imply), or that Nirvana is a state of God Consciousness (when there's is no God?). The Tantric idea of going beyond good and evil to a point where one intuits spontaneous action before discriminatory thought, is miscast as claiming evil is good. Contrary to their claim, and populist opinion, bodhisattvas do not achieve Nirvana, but then stay out of it due to compassion for others. They exercise compassion on their *journey* to Nirvana, but once that realization is made, they go beyond, just as the Buddha did (unless you wish to maintain that he had less compassion). They also misconstrue the origin of suffering as being first in asceticism and affluence, rather than desire, which is where the Buddha put it. Nor does Buddhism specifically teach that any self, other than the egotistical self (which is a delusion in the first place), is destroyed in Nirvana. Buddha avoided this question, as he felt any answer either way led to misunderstanding. Also, the Eightfold Path is not a blueprint for achieving Nirvana. It helps make possible the conditions to have the spontaneously intuited experience of Nirvana, but the Path does not generate it in a cause and effect manner. In a number of spots, Hinduism and Buddhism are run together in a misleading manner that does not recognize their distinctions.<br />The last point is also how they handle pagan groups to hold them guilty by association. You know this book isn't up to snuff when it repeats the myth about the evil God of the Dead Samhain and his demons worshipped by the Druids at Halloween. There's a minor Celtic god by that name (Balor stole his cow), but there is no The God of the Dead in a Greek sense in that tradition, and Samhain (Sowen) is the name of the festival, not any being worshipped during it. Nor is Halloween the most important Satanic holiday. Satanists generally consider that to be their own birthday. The authors don't come right out and claim Wiccans are Satanists in so few words, but it is clear that this is what they think. Articles on aspects of both Satanism and of Wicca are all cross referenced to each other, sometimes through intermediary articles such as *Black Mass,* and *Black Magic.* Put all the pieces together and the picture becomes clear: Wiccans, despite what *some* either *claim* or *allege,* are a bunch of closet Satanists who lie about what they're really up to. Through the *run them all together* trick, Wiccans are all accused of renewing their allegiance to Satan during Sabbats, calling on The Goddess to harm others, partaking in ritual sex, using both white and black magic, using charms to call up demons to cast evil powers of darkness to hurt people, and venerating Pan, who is elsewhere identified as Lucifer. There may be some out there who style themselves Satanic witches or do some of the above, but, as far as the vast majority of Wiccans are concerned, this is slander. Wicca is neither Satanism nor the Medieval Christian fantasies about Witchcraft, and it would seem difficult to be using demons, spells, powers of darkness and The Goddess for purposes of black magic when the Wiccan Rede calls on followers to not harm others. Some may rationalize striking back when they're hurt or angry, but that is not the normal intent of Wiccan practice and this book's characterization of them is out of control. This is not merely a scholarly failure, but, given the Biblical injunction to not lie about others, it is a moral failure on the part of the Christian authors.<br />Given the poor level of research in the areas I know about, I cannot trust what this book  says elsewhere. There is not one bit of documentation for any claim they make. Everything is asserted without proof. I found numerous questionable or debunked ideas assumed as fact, such as the backward masking of Satanic messages on rock records, the level of Hitler's involvement in the occult, various conspiracy theories, Hislop's (Two Babylons) approach to ancient pagan deities, and a lot of weird stuff that makes me think they did little or no original research, but merely repeated material from other Christian writers who have no real expertise in these areas, either. If you want to know what a group believes, go ask them, or read their books; don't rely solely on what outsiders say.  This book is what happens when you do the latter.is not the normal intent of Wiccan practice and this book's characterization of them is out of control. This is not merely a scholarly failure, but, given the Biblical injunction to not lie about others, it is a moral failure on the part of the Christian authors. <br />Given the poor level of research in the areas I know about, I cannot trust what this book  says elsewhere. There is not one bit of documentation for any claim they make. Everything is asserted without proof. I found numerous questionable or debunked ideas assumed as fact, such as the backward masking of Satanic messages on rock records, the level of Hitler's involvement in the occult, various conspiracy theories, Hislop's (Two Babylons) approach to ancient pagan deities, and a lot of weird stuff that makes me think they did little or no original research, but merely repeated material from other Christian writers who have no real expertise in these areas, either. If you want to know what a group believes, go ask them, or read their books; don't rely solely on what outsiders say.  This book is what happens when you do the latter.	2002-11-04
US	53002113	R2ZRLL0EHWRUYL	0312295189	794220711	The New Buddhism	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Which Buddhism?	This is both an intellectually stimulating and entertaining book by a revisionist author who is attempting to forge a new Buddhism for modern Western consumption. It certainly resonates with the Critical Buddhism movement that has been largely erupting in Japan over the last couple decades, and as such shares its strengths and weakness. See Hubbard's Pruning The Bodhi Tree for an overview of this. Being attached to this outlook, Brazier turns a rather skeptical eye to the history and doctrines that have been historically associated with Buddhism, overturning and casting out anything that doesn't fit into his agenda of socially engaged Buddhism. In the process, he turfs many positions that great numbers of Buddhists would think of as being core issues in Buddhist faith. To think that they can be as breezilly dismissed as Brazier handles them is a mistake. How much can be cut out before it's Buddhism in name only? In fact, which of the eight very different views of enlightenment he presents is really ultimate when they each claim to be and shoot down some or all of the others? And if there's so much allowable diversity, why not allow a New Buddhism, even if it comes close to being a Buddhist Brazierism? These are all questions worth hard thought, particularly for a religion without canon or (allegedly) dogma. Given that the Buddha welcomed all questions, however, and preached critical analysis, even of his own views, Brazier has stirred up a tasty pot of issues for thinking Buddhists. Whether you end up agreeing or disagreeing with him, this is one of the most provocative books about Buddhism around.	2002-08-08
US	53002113	R2RV90NPSJPAYE	0140202285	403083664	Buddhism: An Introduction and Guide (Pelican)	Books	3	23	24	N	N	Good for it's Time, but....	Considered one of the original classic introductory level works on Buddhism, this book has been continually reprinted somewhere in the world for half a century. Humphreys writes with passion about the doctrines and beliefs that have become a living reality in his life, and it is this edge that draws readers in spite of the fact that, content-wise, it has been clearly surpassed by more recent introductions, such as Harvey's. The other reviews here tell you its strengths, so let me make a few warnings. First, a reader new to Buddhist thought needs to be aware that Humphrey's opinions about the subject are colored, sometimes deeply, by his exposure to a syncretistic religion called Theosophy, which attempted to bridge Eastern and Western religions. As such, he is not always clearly Buddhist, but reflects Theosophical beliefs, particularly in his discussions on Self and Oneness. Second, due to this bridging need, a number of comments and comparisons are drawn with Christianity that are either out of context or which disappear when the actual details are examined. Third, the book represents a rationalistic approach to Buddhism, typical of the times, and proceeds on such assumptions as that Buddhism contains no assumptions, which cannot be taken seriously at this point. Due to these issues, and its dated nature compared to recent introductions, I would recommend reading some of the later before trying this one.	2002-08-08
US	53002113	R3NJ6BX7AZ3FWP	0879511931	529480630	Buddha and Buddhism	Books	4	1	1	N	N	For the Beginner	There are many introductory works that survey Buddhist beliefs and history, just like this one (and I've reviewed a number of them), so content-wise this one is not unique. Its explanations are concise and aimed clearly at the general reader, which will make some of it seem a bit simplistic to a more knowledgeable person. What makes it stand out, however, is that, of all the introductions, this one makes one of the nicest to give as a gift to someone curious about your own interest in Buddhism. The text is not over-whelming and is broken up by nearly seventy black and white illustrations of Buddhist art and life, making it a non-threatening read. While it may not be the best introduction, it may be one of the better for other practical needs.	2002-08-08
US	53002113	R1IOQEET5C1QMQ	0060652438	851567946	Buddhism: The Path to Nirvana (Religious Traditions of the World)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Another Standard Introduction	Lester has provided a servicable introduction to Buddhism, as one volume in a set of such works by the publisher introducing the major world religions. As such, it covers the basic history and beliefs of the faith in a survey manner at a level good for the general public, but below what a college or university course should require. There are no real surprises for anyone who has read a couple other books like this, but for the curious person on the street, it's a good starting point.	2002-08-08
US	53002113	R21RKZNW1HHOWJ	0722532326	206810394	Western Buddhism: New Insights into the West's Fastest-growing Religion	Books	4	0	0	N	N	What Western Buddhists Are Up To	With Buddhism becoming firmly rooted in Western cultures, a number of authors are taking a look at what is happening in the process. Just as Buddhism was transformed when it entered Tibetan, Chinese, or Japanese society, so it is finding itself being reformed by a Western context. Kulananda takes a topical approach to the subject. He first locates the reader by giving a brief over-view of basic Buddhist beliefs, and then surveys a number of philosophical and practical issues in Buddhist life and how they are being experienced by people practicing Buddhism in the West. He casts a probing, and sometimes critical, eye at the Buddhist heritage the West is inheriting. It is rather interesting to see the something old, something new approach to this wedding between Westerners and Buddhists as they decide what to keep and what to modify. The only bothersome thing I would point out is this: Kulananda makes a number of statements about truths and ethics. What he doesn't seem to recognize is that if what he says about them is accurate, he has undercut his own position, as well.	2002-08-08
US	53002113	R20Z8EAW1HAE4	8120808185	954543337	Indian Buddhism	Books	5	18	18	N	N	A Classic in it's Field	Warder is one of the giants of his generation on Buddhist research, casting a long shadow over his time teaching at the University of Toronto. Though semi-retired, he still occassionally teaches a class on the history of Asian Buddhism for the Nalanda College of Buddhist Studies, and this book, no surprise, is a main text for that class, as well as the one on Introductory Buddhism. It really is one of the classic works on the period of early Buddhism, a time that goes largely ignored in the modern West's taste for Mahayana forms of Buddhism. Most don't realize that Buddhism quickly split up into nearly two dozen schools with some fairly significant differences between them. Warder covers not only them, but also the tangled history and context that shaped these early Buddhists. It is detailed and thorough to a level that would boggle the layperson, but is well worth the time and concentration needed if you are specifically interested in this time period. Not only does it contain good chapters on what you would normally expect, such as the Buddha's life and doctrines, but there are also chapter length discussions on issues that are often sidelined, such as how the Buddhist writings were preserved and collected, and how popularization effected it's teachings. Over all, it's a grande job, so don't be afraid to have it imported.	2002-08-08
US	53002113	RL8DKSVZSK7H8	0904766926	645701626	A Concise History of Buddhism	Books	5	39	40	N	N	Know Where You Came From?	In the West, I find many Buddhists are primarilly interested in the pragmatic and practical aspects of the faith, so there doesn't tend to be a lot of interest in what gets typically written off as dry, irrelevant history. The ahistorical bent of certain aspects of Buddhist thought lends its weight to this. Knowing what has already happened, however, can be a good pointer for figuring out where you are, and an understanding of the history and development of Buddhism is a great help in this respect. Since most people don't have the interest, time, or patience to wade through a major work on the subject, Skilton's book will fill their need. A mere couple hundred pages in length, he surveys events in brief eight to twelve page chapters that are easy to read without being simplistic. One gains insight into the great sweep of Buddhism across Asia from Japan in the East right over to Persia in the West. There is also a topically organized, extensive bibliography of primary and secondary sources to further any interest the main text has raised.	2002-08-08
US	53002113	R1QYDWWMTJYE0B	0722532326	206810394	Western Buddhism: New Insights into the West's Fastest-growing Religion	Books	4	0	0	N	N	What Western Buddhists Are Up To	With Buddhism becoming firmly rooted in Western cultures, a number of authors are taking a look at what is happening in the process. Just as Buddhism was transformed when it entered Tibetan, Chinese, or Japanese society, so it is finding itself being reformed by a Western context. Kulananda takes a topical approach to the subject. He first locates the reader by giving a brief over-view of basic Buddhist beliefs, and then surveys a number of philosophical and practical issues in Buddhist life and how they are being experienced by people practicing Buddhism in the West. He casts a probing, and sometimes critical, eye at the Buddhist heritage the West is inheriting. It is rather interesting to see the something old, something new approach to this wedding between Westerners and Buddhists as they decide what to keep and what to modify. The only bothersome thing I would point out is this: Kulananda makes a number of statements about truths and ethics. What he doesn't seem to recognize is that if what he says about them is accurate, he has undercut his own position, as well.	2002-08-08
US	53002113	R2XJ7L3QLLQK6	0938077694	269660210	The Awakening of the West: The Encounter of Buddhism and Western Culture	Books	4	32	33	N	N	Little Known Corners of History	Batchelor, a convert from Tibetan to Zen Buddhism (assuming he hasn't converted again since), is one of the more interesting Western authors on Buddhism. This work surveys the history of contacts between Buddhist persons and schools as they were both visited by Westerners and came themselves to visit the West. It comes in five sections. Most people seem to like the final two, as they deal with contacts made in modern times, but a lot of this is covered better in Clarke's Oriental Enlightenment. The first three segments, however, are a fascinating overview of some surprising encounters that are not widely known. Did you know there's evidence of a Greek ruler discussing philosophy with a Buddhist monk a couple hundred years before Christ? How about Buddhist traders plying their trade across the Middle East into Egypt before and during the time of the Early Church? Or Catholics and Buddhists squaring off in the court of the Khans in Medieval Central Asia? Who knew? Most of the book, however, is a tradition by tradition account of how Buddhism came largely to Europe. Another book, How The Swans Came To The Lake, compliments it by telling the story in North America. I have two main reservations. First, some modern figures are given short shift because, even though they were popular, they didn't represent the best Buddhist teachings. As a history, however, they should reflect their social importance. Second, given that this is an encounter with the West, and Christianity is the major Western religion, Batchelor could be better informed on the history and theology of that religion. A fair number of his statements in connection to it are not well considered. Either way, this work is, over-all, great arm-chair travel for the reader interested in Buddhist history.	2002-08-08
US	53002113	R2GIOYGNU73I1M	0312233388	181855388	Religions of the Silk Road: Overland Trade and Cultural Exchange from Antiquity to the Fifteenth Century	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Where Major Religions First Met	The interesting thing about the Silk Road for someone interested in the history of religions, is that along its length is where Buddhism, Judaism, Christianity, Islam, and Chinese thought had a prolonged encounter. Where national borders tended to keep them apart elsewhere, here traders and soldiers carried these views back and forth across the spine of Asia. This is their story, though one told in crammed detail over too short a book. Foltz surveys the Jews and Zoroastrians at the Western end of the Road, then follows historically as the Buddhists, then Christians travel its length to China in the East, only to be finally submerged in the tide of an Islamic crusade. He traces the moves of each of the faiths, how it developed into a gigantic melting pot with verging and joined syncretism, and how it all came to an end. I only wish it had been a longer book, particularly since I paid so much for the hardcover! For those who feel the same, however, there is an extensive bibliography of other works covering this area of the world.	2002-08-08
US	53002113	R23VV26H74LIYZ	1557986258	45687333	Varieties of Anomalous Experience: Examining the Scientific Evidence	Books	5	44	47	N	Y	Essential Reading on the Topic	Books surveying anomalous experience have tended to come from the skeptic side of the fence and have leaned toward the debunking end of the spectrum. While they have their uses, there's always the nagging suspicion that they might not be fair to all the evidence. While this book isn't as easy reading as those of the skeptics, it really shoots at being a balanced examination of the evidence, pro and con, with intelligent discussion about where the weight of what we know falls. Each chapter tackles one anomalous phenomenon and follows a consistant structure. First, the experience is clearly defined so that we know what is and is not being addressed. Then, the actual phenomenology of the phenomenon out in the field is surveyed. Since the book is geared toward those in the psychological and helping professions, the emotional, physical, and mental aftereffects of having the experience are then examined. The range of differences between experients is presented,then issues involving psychopathology, clinical assessment, background theories, and methodology of research are shown. Each chapter is written by an authority on that specific phenomenon and they provide a summation conclusion at the end where they render their professional judgment on the topic. If you're looking for a sensational or spooky handling of the subjects, this isn't your book; but if you want a very level headed analysis of what is happening in these fields of research, you need to be familiar with this work. Even better, each chapter provides pages worth of bibliography, pro and con, on each subject, that will keep you going for years.	2002-08-07
US	53002113	R3UJ65S6EAHU0J	1854242989	464220678	The Spirit of Buddhism	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A Decent Introductory Survey	If you see an orange covered book above, this review does not pertain to it, but to an old, out of print, gold covered edition. Amazon has copied this old review to this revised edition of Burnett's work and my comments  below are no longer completely accurate. Please see the other listing for this book for an updated review.    This book is typical of pretty much any other introductory level survey of Buddhist doctrine and history. Burnett shows that he is familiar with good primary and secondary sources, and has spent a fair amount of time thinking through Buddhist thought. There are many concise and accurate discussions of various aspects of Buddhist belief and philosophy. The work, however, is subtitled \\"A Christian Perspective on Buddhist Thought,\\" and, while it is nice to see he has taken the time to accurately grasp what Buddhists believe, there really isn't much Christian perspective about it. Other than a chapter on how Christian missions impacted the Buddhist world, there's very little in this book you wouldn't find in an equivalent work by a non-Christian; and it doesn't come near substituting for an introduction like Harvey's. Given the differences between these two faiths, one would naturally expect some interesting philosophical fencing, but none of it appears here. Still, if all you want is a good introductory survey and, for whatever reason, you think you need to get it from a Christian anthropologist, this is your book.	2002-08-07
US	53002113	R1680VRNOI9SRK	0830823328	42565510	Walking Away from Faith: Unraveling the Mystery of Belief and Unbelief	Books	4	24	25	N	N	Disturbing and Uncertain; Just Like Doubt	This book is disturbing, because it doesn't take the typical &quot;doubt can be good for you, and if you truly believe you'll come back to the faith&quot; route often taken by works on this subject. By the time you finish, you are humbled, as you realize that despite how strong you feel now, you don't know what the future will bring, or what it could do to you. Tucker takes us through three levels of the subject. The first third of the book compares stories of faith and doubt, focusing on the mystery of faith and the anxiety of facing God's silence and hiddeness. The second third surveys the standard problems people encounter in their trials of belief and how they damage faith. I can see some being disappointed with this section, as it does not challenge the issues to the extent they could be, but then Tucker is clear that she's not writing an apologetic work. The final third attempts to clarify common myths Christians have about the quality of life experienced by those who walk away, and attempts to understand the motives of those who've taken that route. It also gives some examples of those who have returned to the faith, and includes a chapter entitled &quot;Answering Doubt and Unbelief,&quot; which is actually about the care needed in dealing with those experiencing doubt, rather than answers to what raises those doubts. Due to Tucker's personal encounters with her own doubt and unbelief, she is very sensitive to the mental state and emotions of those going through hard times. Unfortunately, it is this same sesitiveness that will likely leave some readers feeling the work ends on an uncertain tone, caught between the vagueness of faith and doubt, but I think that, for pastoral reasons, that is exactly what she wants the reader to appreciate.	2002-08-07
US	53002113	RAMBOQ26OHB99	0140192034	677728740	The Historical Buddha: The Times, Life and Teachings of the Founder of Buddhism (Arkana)	Books	4	14	15	N	N	The Buddha Quest	Unlike Jesus, there don't seem to be that many works on the Quest for the Historical Buddha (or Mohammed, for that matter)that attempt to use the approach of the prior movement. This book is a fascinating exception. Schumann makes a detailed attempt to sift through layers of evidence, physical and textual, to arrive at what is most likely the historical core of the Buddha's life. It cuts through a lot of demonstrably later mythology to show us an insightful and intelligent man in the process of discovering a profound outlook on life and struggling to found a community to preserve his discoveries. The work uses the Buddha's life as its structure, dealing with critical issues at places where they logically rise from the narrative, and stearing a path between the extremes of mere belief in anything that was written about Buddha and a mere hyper-skepticism that would leave us with little. What emerges is a rounded image of the Buddha's life and character, in all its highs and lows, that yet shows why he became considered The Light of Asia. It's a pity that it's out of print, so watch for used copies to pop up. In the meantime, Nakamura's 2-volume set is a suitable substitute that is even closer to the text-critical approach seen more typically in Jesus studies.	2002-08-07
US	53002113	R13KAWBY4TZWVU	0830819754	220051453	The Old Testament Documents: Are They Reliable & Relevant?	Books	4	29	31	N	N	Good Introduction, But Needs Expansion In Some Areas.	Most books dealing with the reliability of Biblical documents focus on their transmission history, and usually that of the New Testament, as we know more about it. How much less we know of the textual history of the Older Testament, however, is seen in that only 35 pages of this book are actually devoted to it! The rest of the work is filled out by discussions of whether or not the history and message recorded in those documents is reliable and relevant to today. These discussions are introductory and survey the field in a manner that seems to skate over some rather prickly issues, particularly in the areas where Kaiser argues for the reliability of the recorded history. Given that this work came out some six years after the first major public salvo from minimalist interpreters, who deny the historicity of the events Kaiser argues are historical, there should have been more interaction with them. Their views are becoming general public knowledge and should be interacted with. There also seems to be a tendency in the later sections on the reliability of the messages in the documents, to jump from the fact that something in the text is historically accurate to the view that the message is therefore reliable. The message of Ezekiel, for example, may or may not be reliable, but it isn't proven by the fact that other people at the same time also used bricks as writing materials. On the positive side, however, the discussion of the textual history is concise and informative, as is most of the book. There is also useful information on how many critical views of the text, which remain prevalent in the popular conscience and media, are actually either passe, dead, or under serious fire on the academic end. Over all, the book is worth reading as long as one keeps in mind its introductory survey nature and are willing to pursue the issues to greater depth via the footnotes. The book will give you a good foothold in and understanding of the field to make a solid start at it.	2002-07-23
US	53002113	R11OY3G7RW6S98	0913922757	202661682	Divine Madman: The Sublime Life and Songs of Drukpa Kunley	Books	4	14	17	N	Y	Not The Place To Start	Though Drukpa is a beloved saint of many Himalayans, this is certainly not the first book to read if you're interested in Tibetan Buddhism or culture. In fact, without a grasp of Tantric principles and the way skillful means can be used in a way seen as legitimate by this tradition, many of the events in this book would be received as downright distastful and suspect. I had run across references to him in a number of other works over the years, and am frankly glad I waited until this later point in my understanding of Buddhism before reading this work. Otherwise, I doubt I could have seen through a lot of the cultural chaff, which many would find offensive, to the core insights that the text is trying to promote. Read it sometime, but don't rush to it before you're ready.	2002-03-13
US	53002113	R3I6TS8Z9EVNOP	0861711912	665116836	Imagining Tibet: Perceptions, Projections, and Fantasies	Books	5	18	21	N	N	Getting Real About Tibet	This is a great book if you want to learn more about the reality of Tibet, rather than the numerous romantic myths that have been spawned about it in the West. Having lived from my teens to mid-Twenties in a Canadian community where Tibetans were resettled, I can tell you first hand that they are no more good or bad in general than any other people group. Reading a book like this will save you a lot of wasted time in building up fantasies and having them disappointed. It will help you deal with the more obvious problems, like Lobsang Rampa's fictions, as well as gain a more balanced view of the often over-stated claims about Tibetan Buddhism, environmentalism, peacefulness, and all the other projected idealisms that go into changing the actual particulars of real Tibetan society and history into the Shangri-La of Western desire.	2002-03-13
US	53002113	R68IG670GH8E4	094338902X	479140764	A Tibetan on Tibet (Dorje Zodba of Tachienlu ; With an Introductory Chapter on Buddhism and)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Old Ways	Despite what you would think from the way this book is advertized, it really isn't a travelogue through early 20th Century Tibet. Only 2 chapters are really devoted to this. The rest of it is an account of Dorje Zodba's reflections on Tibetan culture and customs, and this is presented in a rather cut and dry manner, not that different from a typical anthropological or sociological survey. Again, despite what you would think, the vaunted viewpoint of the author (both Christian and Buddhist influenced) does not deliver the variations of insight or spark of tension you would expect. Dorje doesn't really bring either to obvious reflection on the task. So why 4 stars? Because, even though its tone isn't that different from many other books, there are a lot of interesting details brought out due to the author being Tibetan and having grown up in the culture, yet having an analytical distance from it, caused by his exposure to Western methods of information gathering. Of particular note is the fact that this account was written before Tibetans had fully realized that not everything in their culture was politically correct or should be aired too openly, so you gain a more realistic picture of their lives before the Communist takeover and Western idealisms about their culture.	2002-03-13
US	53002113	R2B3FBE3BZT891	157673854X	127354083	The Lotus and the Cross: Jesus Talks with Buddha	Books	3	9	12	N	N	A Subject Too Big For A Book This Tiny	Mr Zacharias has taken an interesting idea, but has only developed it through its baby steps. Due to the short nature of the work, it deals with many probing and deep questions in only a surface manner; that said, however, most of the questions are worth asking and discussing. In fact, my fellow students at the Nalanda College of Buddhist studies have raised some of them on their own, not to mention ones far more critical than Zacharias seems aware of, which is why I find the reviews below, that engage in name-calling and hysterical language, rather humorous. Buddhists do not need to respond like this, or engage in baseless psychologizing of others' motives, or hide behind the individualized adaptations of the Buddha's teachings when they're given an honest question. Yes, I do think the Buddha would have been more responsive if this had been a real dialogue. Yes, there are real answers for some of these questions; some of them go back to Buddhist writings thousands of years old, such as the Milindapanha. But folks, honestly, take a pill. If you can't handle or answer a few sincere and commonly asked questions about Buddhism, even by Buddhists themselves, then you need to know more about the tradition. Buddhism has a long and distinguished career of letting all questioners come and allowing all doubts to be put on the table for discussion, and this book presents such things in an honestly inquiring and polite, though edgy, manner. If you want to cut below the current politically correct shallow level of inter-religious dialogue, and see where the real flash-points are going to be between your typical traditional Buddhist and typical traditional Christian, Zacharias will quickly locate them for you.	2001-11-21
US	53002113	R3T8YGN1DH6Y4M	817001025X	685248536	The Dimensions of Karma	Books	4	0	0	N	N	And You Thought You Understood This?	The concept of karma is so popular now, particularly with the growth of interest in rebirth over the past few decades, that most people think they understand it. This book, however, will open your eyes. Right from the first section, where three very different handlings of karma are clearly outlined, you will realize that there's more to this subject than you thought. After the survey of Hindu, Buddhist and Jain thought on the idea, we are treated to an overview of metaphysical and moral issues and problems, and the solutions that have been offered. Topics include determinism and freedom, evil, and social implications. Also discussed are evidence used to support belief in karma, whether or not it stands up as a consistant philosophy, how it relates to liberation and dharma, and whether it can be considered communal as well as individual. The last section brings it into dialogue with Western concepts of sin, the unconscious, and psychology. If you want a scholarly grasp of karma, in all its shades, this is a good place to start. On the other side, the section on evidences could have been more rigorous (it doesn't directly respond to any major written critique of karma), the section on evil is out of date (as far as its contrast to Christian answers to the issue) and the sections on psychological issues get a bit fuzzy (but that's the nature of the beast). All in all, well worth reading. You'll never again think of this as a simply understood concept.	2001-09-06
US	53002113	R1EM0JRS3JGXLD	0415132142	132448766	Philosophy of Religion: A Contemporary Introduction (Routledge Contemporary Introductions to Philosophy)	Books	5	33	36	N	N	A Breath Of Critical Fresh Air	What a refreshing change of pace. Yandell is not cowed at all by modern politically correct views of how to handle (or rather, avoid handling) real religious views. Christian, Hindu, Buddhist and Jain views all are surveyed, then come under review for various tests of whether or not they are viable options for belief. What seems solid stands; what doesn't gets a polite and serious discussion of its weaknesses. As noted, a value is that, unlike many philosophy of religion books, this one jumps clearly outside the typical coverage of Western theistic religions and gives Eastern views the respectful discussion they deserve. Any criticisms, on all sides, are handled with scholarly acumen, lack of insult, and are argued in detail. This book will make you think on issues deeply. I think that Buddhists, particularly those from debate oriented traditions (like Theravada or Tibetan) will particularly enjoy developing a response to his discussions on the evidential lack of value to meditation experiences, and to his in detail analysis of why he thinks the Buddhist view of persons is not adequate. It's rare that religious groups who actually enjoy a real challenge are given one, but here is one worth your time. As for criticisms of theistic issues, such as the general failure of traditional arguments for God's existence, there's not as much unique here that hasn't been said in other works covering the topic. Over all, however, this is an excellent book for someone capeable of thinking philosophically at a college or university level.	2001-09-06
US	53002113	R1AV7SWFWQLD14	0965504700	172955933	Bible Prophecy: Failure or Fulfillment?	Books	3	23	28	N	N	Interesting Populist Treatment	Having searched for this book for some time, I had mixed feelings upon actually reading it. Despite it's recent date, it's very much in need of revising to bring it current with the topics discussed. This may partly be due to Callahan's intended target, fundamentalists, who're also not always up to date. Much of it reads like a discussion of the topic from somewhere between 1900 and the 1960's, not surprising given the sparce and dated bibliography. All that aside, I found it to be not as terrible as the naysayers, nor as brilliant as its supporters, think it is. Callahan raises many interesting points and puzzles that are worthy of discussion, research and response. At the same time, there are a number of miss-steps typical of the non-specialist. The best thing for this book would be a sequel in which Callahan sits down with some scholars of the opposing camp, and I don't mean easy targets like McDowell or some radio preacher, and bats these problems out in a written debate format, somewhat like Wright and Borg did with the Jesus issue. Until then, this is still a worthwhile place to look to see a skeptical treatment, but it should be taken with a grain of salt, particularly if you haven't done degree level study in these areas, or are not up to date with the relevant literature. The &quot;assured results of textual criticism&quot; are once again up in the air over a number of these points, and the dust has yet to settle.	2001-08-29
US	53002113	RR6YXQN778VA4	0968395112	882677467	Freeing the Buddha	Books	2	19	23	N	N	The Rise of Western Buddhist Fundamentalism	The West is swamped with Mahayana Buddhist writings, so normally it would be good to see a Theravada step up to the podium. In this case, however, an engaging presentation of Theravada beliefs is marred by a vendetta against both Mahayana Buddhism and Christianity. Ruhe's attitude and treatment of these religions are a betrayal of both the Buddha's compassion and call to penetrating intellectual insight. This is unfortunate; since the first half of the book is a well done presentation of Theravada doctrine peppered with practical information on meditation and good illustrations. Ignoring the errors, I benefited from reading this and Ruhe should be commended for presenting Buddhism in such a relevant and entertaining manner.  All of this changes, however, in the second half, which is a collection of essays on various topics. Anyone with formal education in religious studies will have seen this coming from comments in the book's first part. It is obvious, despite Ruhe's denial, that he has a personal problem with Mahayanists and Christians, and it is biasing his presentation. Later he seems to have forgotten his denial and reveals both family and career problems that are the likely roots of the vitriol. When not on the attack, he tries to convince you that the Nazi Nuremberg rallies are a good visualization exercise for harnessing energy, that UFO's are spirit beings called devas, that his poorly written concept for a Buddhist comic book is a good idea, that channeling devas should be a core Buddhist practice, that the prophecies of Nostradamus should be taken seriously, and that the military and government should hire psychics and shamans as advisors.<br />  Where he is most self admittedly proud, though, is where he thinks he's defending Theravada from Mahayana and Christian beliefs. He says that Mahayana Buddhism is based on fraud and continues to deceive its modern day adherents. While I have seen some of his points raised by other more competent writers, I have no reason to believe the rest of what he says, due to the amount of distortion in his handling of Christianity. This is especially so as the vast majority of his claims throughout the entire book are not documented. He merely asserts most of his wilder claims and proclaims them true. Even where he raises points worthy of debate, he does so in such a condescending manner your gut reaction is to take the Mahayana side anyway!  Since Ruhe can't even deal fairly with a group from within his own tradition, it's no surprise to see the flood of false information, distorted presentation, and the parade of straw man arguments when it comes to Christianity. Read the chapter on Mahayana first, noting the nine points by which he claims they have used deception to misrepresent Theravada. Now read the chapter on Christianity. Apparently, Ruhe thinks that what is false for Mahayanists to do to Theravadans is perfectly fine for a Theravadan to do to Christianity. He is so uninformed in regards to the later faith, however, that I can't honestly say he did this deliberately. He seems totally unaware that the scholars he sites in support of his position are only a small part of a much wider community, many of whom clearly disagree with his favorites. The first group uses against the later similar tactics to what Ruhe claims the Mahayana use against Theravada. He may have thus merely absorbed this distortion from his narrow selection of sources. Either way, most of what he says on the topic is so shallow and factually inaccurate it is unworthy of refutation.<br />  Someone interested in studying Buddhism should be aware of the Theravada position, but you can do it without having to continually duck the bad karma shooting off the pages of this work. Try the books of Walpola Rahula or Richard Gombrich, for example. Ruhe's book represents more the birth of an aggressive Buddhist fundamentalism that is none the less utterly sure of itself, than it does The Future of Buddhism he thinks he iscreating in the West.<br />  It should be noted, however, that there is a new edition of this book being published overseas. A year after the original post of this review, the author has informed me that most of the critical points raised, by myself and others, about the third edition are being addressed in the fourth. The details indicate that the result will be a stronger and more balanced work.	2000-04-15
US	53002113	R1IW6MGATK4JAH	0801021510	607298002	Baker Encyclopedia of Christian Apologetics (Baker Reference Library)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Very Good Reference Work With A Few Needed Additions	This work is both important and extensive. A number of the articles are near definitive. The buyer should, however, be aware of a few shortcomings. First, this is a best of Mr. Geisler, so it's strong where he's strong  (particularly if he has previously written a book on the subject), but weak  on things he's not focused on in the past. Actually, it's surprising that  Baker would let one person write an entire volume on apologetics in this  series when other volumes have benefited from multiple authors and there  are other writers available who could have written more authoritatively on  some subjects, particularly the science issues. Second, it desperately  needs a proper index [not just an article index]. A number of issues are  handled under headings which are not obvious, and sometimes over multiple  separated articals that haven't been cross-referenced, making them  difficult to relocate. This sometimes involves major topics (such as the  Brain/Mind problem) which have no separate entries, though they certainly  deserve them. Advanced readers will also wish he had dealt more extensively  with the entire issue of non-foundationalist apologetics, particularly  since his work is so solidly foundational. Don't let any of this scare you  away, however, as it's well worth the read.	1999-11-26
US	53002113	RLG8F3UPX9JY6	0804819602	845707873	Shinto the Kami Way	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Meet One of the Lesser Known Religions	Shinto is one of those religions that usually gets short listed at the back of books on world religions, if it gets in at all, yet it's crucial to understanding some of the underlying currents in Japanese thinking and  behavior. This work is a well organized, straight-forward introduction to  the subject. The real explanatory gem, however, is found in chapter five,  where Shinto beliefs on a number of key issues are both clearly and  concisely outline, and contrasted with traditional Western views.	1999-11-26
US	53002113	RGKU4M93OU1NA	0844284912	960145378	Behind the Japanese Bow	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A Good Concept for Getting a Handle on Japanese Behavior	The author has written quite a few books on how Japanese persons behave, but this one goes a level deeper to try and explain why they act the way they do. To do this, he puts forth the concept of analyzing behavior  through the lense of kata, forms for the proper way of doing things in a  Japanese context. Using this as his key, he outlines what he sees as about  15 influential kata patterns and how they've been incorporated into various  levels of Japanese society. Going beyond mere description, he offers a  critique of the weaknesses of a kata based culture, and gives some idea how  things will change as the kata patterns are weakened by foreign influences.	1999-11-26
US	53002113	RJ01X0PDZRLW0	0804821070	687477934	Nippon Pop	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Good Survey of the J Pop World	With the growing interest in Japanese pop artists among English speaking people, this book has come at the right time. Not meant for someone only interested in one or two genres, or in what is fleetingly popular, McClure  focuses on a wide range of styles and introduces you to the important  movers and creators who have shown their lasting worth. There are a few  interesting oversights, but only two complaints of substance. First, a lot  of space is used up by graphic design which could have been used to give  more information. We need data on these people more than we need photos.  Second, a CD sampler of their music would have clinched his arguement that  Japan is producing some of the most original contemporary music around  today. Still, this is well worth a look by readers with a wide interest or  willing to have their taste expanded.	1999-11-26
US	53002113	RSUUZDXLDCYWP	0802836704	944386225	A song for Nagasaki	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Sad Yet Inspiring Story	This is actually a biography of Takashi Nagai, a Christian who worked early in the field of radiology and ironically died of radiation poisoning from the nuclear bombing of Nagasaki. It's worthwhile tracking down not  only for its heartbreaking account of the destruction of that city and its  citizens, but also for its portrayal of Nagai's intelligent struggle  through a number of worldviews before becoming a follower of Christ. Along  the way you'll learn about the history of Christianity in Japan. You won't  soon forget some of the images in this book.	1999-11-26
US	53002113	R11YGVW2CMVZZ8	0534010288	210209585	Japanese Religion: Unity and Diversity (A volume in the Wadsworth Religious Life in History Series)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Helpful Beyond Mere Description	This is a very helpful book in understanding the Japanese religious experience, due to its historical focus. Rather than merely describing Shinto, Confucianism, Buddhism and Christianity, it follows the history of  these religions as they are introduced into Japan, interact with each  other, and become indiginized. This allows the reader to see the context  within which different aspects of each faith were accepted, rejected and  changed. You end up not only knowing what happened, but why. The book  concludes with an assessment of how the religions have changed under the  impact of modern culture. Crowning a job already well done, there is an  extensive, topical annotated bibliography to guide you in further study.	1999-11-26
US	53002113	R1P86A2KBNGWKB	0520089405	245834265	The Material Child: Coming of Age in Japan and America	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Fascinating Examination of Japanese Teen Life	This book is a very interesting tour of Japanese youth in the early 1990's. Going beyond mere description she compares Japanese and American teens, blowing away many stereotypes on both sides. I found differences  where I wasn't expecting them and surprising ways they are similar. Most of  the material focuses on the Japanese side, covering their social  development, consummerism, opinions on life's big issues, and how both the  group and school mould their personalities and behavior. Make sure not to  miss the reproduction of the Tokyo Metropolitan Police's poster on how to  figure out if your kid is a juvenile delinquent. It's a laugh!	1999-11-26
US	53002113	R3F2E5NMB01TP3	082480077X	884521031	The Japanese Mind: Essentials of Japanese Philosophy and Culture (East West Center Book)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	An Interesting Collection	This books collects 14 essays by some of the biggest names in Japanese studies from the late 1960's. It is out of date at points because of its age, and the chapters by Hajime are basically condensations from his book  Ways Of Thinking of Eastern Peoples. Its enduring value is found in four  essays on Buddhism, which deal with Mahayana, reason and intuition, Zen,  and the status of the individual. Other than those, it's a bit of a mixed  bag.	1999-11-26
US	53002113	R36HB3I87P38UU	0801021510	607298002	Baker Encyclopedia of Christian Apologetics (Baker Reference Library)	Books	4	43	44	N	N	A Very Good Reference Work With A Few Needed Additions	This work is both important and extensive. A number of the articles are near definitive. The buyer should, however, be aware of a few shortcomings. First, this is a best of Mr. Geisler, so it's strong where he's strong  (particularly if he has previously written a book on the subject), but weak  on things he's not focused on in the past. Actually, it's surprising that  Baker would let one person write an entire volume on apologetics in this  series when other volumes have benefited from multiple authors and there  are other writers available who could have written more authoritatively on  some subjects, particularly the science issues. Second, it desperately  needs an index. A number of issues are handled under headings which are not  obvious, and sometimes over multiple separated articals that haven't been  cross-referenced, making them difficult to relocate. This sometimes  involves major topics (such as Postmodernism and the Brain/Mind problem)  which amazingly have no separate entries, though they certainly deserve  them. Advanced readers will also wish he had dealt more extensively with  the entire issue of non-foundationalist apologetics, particularly since his  work is so solidly foundational. Don't let any of this scare you away,  however, as it's well worth the read.	1999-11-26
US	53002113	RWFEPJQWIEW6U	0809132060	645193339	Japan's Encounter With Christianity: The Catholic Mission in Pre-Modern Japan	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Story of Bravery and Tragedy	Though out of print, this book is well worth tracking down for those interested in Japan's introduction to Christianity. The stories of the sacrifices made by these early Christians, both as missionaries and  particularly as native Japanese Christians, are a rebuke to much of today's  comfortable Christianity. The book is also of interest to those studying  dialogue between Buddhists and Christians, as it outlines and interacts  with some of the earliest Buddhist assessments and critiques of  Christianity.	1999-11-26
US	53002113	R2921KBETJLFSD	0937938491	866578807	Tantra in Tibet (Wisdom of Tibet Series)	Books	3	30	33	N	N	Be Ready to Concentrate	There are two reasons this didn't get four stars. First, with a primary text and two commentators there's a lot of repetition. Second, it's a little dry. The Dalai Lama has since become a much better writer. This book  is not for beginners or people looking for the sensational. It is a serious  discussion of tantra that demands concentration. Hopkin's supplements  contain a nice summary of the doctrine of emptiness, as well as some very  handy diagrams of the relationships among Buddhist schools on the issue and  even a diagramatic outline of the primary source text. All of this is  beneficial for a reader who already has some familiarity with the topic.	1999-11-26
