US	53002494	R2NIMAQZ9HEQGY	1558607528	146123676	Web Application Design Handbook: Best Practices for Web-Based Software (Interactive Technologies)	Books	2	53	62	N	N	What web are they talking about here?	This is a strange book. Despite the giant word \\"WEB\\" on the cover, it's difficult to see this as \\"best practices for web-based software.\\" Instead, it reads like a guide for designers who've only built desktop software and are being forced against their will to deliver a web-based product.<br /><br />It's far too long at 658 pages; there are needless sections on general suggestions for designing for the web that are far better written about elsewhere. I understand the authors' desire for completeness, but there's just too much basic HTML here padding out some sections.<br /><br />And the final *seven* chapters deal with the design of data reports, charts, graphs, and even maps. Now, these are important topics, but they are not such significant parts of most web applications to deserve more than half this book's length. And have these authors never read Edward Tufte? It's hard to imagine a collection of uglier, more garishly colored, visually heavy maps and diagrams than what's presented here.<br /><br />It's a little annoying, too, that most of the diagram images come from *desktop* applications like Excel or Crystal Reports, not web applications. There's a good reason for that: these kinds of data-intense diagrams tend to be for specialist users committed to spending long hours in an application. In most cases, that's a situation that calls for the more powerful capabilities of a desktop application. When's the last time you looked at a scatter plot on a web site?<br /><br />But between the dull basics of the first chapters and the mind-bending statistical overkill of the last seven, there are some good and useful sections. For example, there are good rules of thumb for form layouts, handling input validation gracefully, and search filtering. There's nothing adventerous or innovative here, of course. Advice tends toward the conservative and reliable list view-to-object view model (the way your email program works), with a few breaks for product comparison interfaces. As in so many of these kinds of books, the authors also include examples of utterly pointless novelty interfaces (zooming lenses, radial tree navigation schemes, photo \\"data mountains\\") that are notable for their near-total absence outside the HCI lab.<br /><br />The strange thing about this book, and others like it, is the almost willful blindness of what *actually* works in web application design, and what *actual* users vote with their clicks to make successful. Innovative, popular, and usable web applications like Amazon.com, Flickr, Craigslist, eBay, Google's Gmail, or the applications built by 37Signals are nowhere to be found. These applications are successful because they embrace the constraints imposed by the web and HTML (and their strengths), and find ways to support users' tasks that make sense in that environment.. As in so many of these kinds of books, the authors also include examples of utterly pointless novelty interfaces (zooming lenses, radial tree navigation schemes, photo \\"data mountains\\") that are notable for their near-total absence outside the HCI lab.<br /><br />The strange thing about this book, and others like it, is the almost willful blindness of what *actually* works in web application design, and what *actual* users vote with their clicks to make successful. Innovative, popular, and usable web applications like Amazon.com, Flickr, Craigslist, eBay, Google's Gmail, or the applications built by 37Signals are nowhere to be found. These applications are successful because they embrace the constraints imposed by the web and HTML (and their strengths), and find ways to support users' tasks that make sense in that environment.	2005-10-09
US	53002494	R3K1DENN5PZO4P	0345430786	122062535	Manifold: Space	Books	3	3	4	N	Y	As gaseous as a nebula	I like Baxter a lot, especially the various Xeelee books. Manifold: Time was quite good, although certainly not his best work. Manifold:Space is written as if the same characters and context of the first book had branched off on a different timeline. So, same people, different stuff happens to them.<br /><br />The first part of M: Space is fairly typical Baxter: humans encounter aliens, aliens bring some good, some bad, human society changes, loner astronaut launches himself into deep space, yadda yadda yadda. But much of the book is quite...impressionistic. That is, scenes, characters, and plot points sort of ebb and flow. For much of the book, there simply is no clear narrative arc. Things eventually become clear--life emerges everywhere, but somehow the galaxy always wipes it out, forcing it to start again, and man and alien alike wonder how to survive that purge. But the journey to the end of the book is often pretty slow going. A tighter editor might have chopped 100 pages out of this with little loss.<br /><br />Baxter fans should find it worth a read, but I wouldn't reccommend it otherwise.	2005-08-03
US	53002494	R14ILJJGLRB0YH	0575074361	945490780	Century Rain (GollanczF.)	Books	3	17	22	N	N	Pretty good fun	Mercifully, Reynolds has restrained himself from another 700 pager. I liked the Revalation Space trio books, but each of them easily had 200 or so pages that should have been edited right out.<br /><br />Here at least he's paced things a bit better. It's generally a real page-turner, although in true Reynolds style, there are points where it's just getting good and...he stalls out for thirty pages. Luckily, it's not nearly as bad as in the Rev Space books, where pretty much every dramatic moment would be undercut by a tedious 20 pages.<br /><br />However, the overall idea's just a bit lame. You know those Star Trek: Next Generation holodeck episodes where Data played Sherlock Holmes? Well, it's one of those. Oh, but plus an episode of Stargate, with a hyperspace portal to another time. In other words, not exactly the most creative premise, but it's still fun. And lord knows it's better than Absolution Gap.	2005-04-05
US	53002494	RJLLZ3OMOYPJ0	0500285179	876680843	Creative Code: Aesthetics + Computation	Books	3	79	82	N	N	New Masters of Maeda	Maeda is a certifiable genius, but his books have gone downhill since his first, \\"Design by Numbers.\\" That book is an exceptional introduction to computational design, original, and elegant. His next, \\"Maeda at Media\\" took many hundreds of pages to sum up Maeda's years a the MIT Media Lab. It was something of an egotistical embarrassment. Maeda, then just in his mid-thirties, included pretty much every experiement and project he'd done to date. Even geniuses need editors.<br /><br />Now, in \\"Creative Code\\" we get a book not really different from the \\"New Masters of Flash\\" series that's now in (I think) its third edition. CC is a collection of case studies of work by some very smart people, and some essays about digital media, working methods, and so on. Much of it is great work and pretty. It's rendered pretty lifeless in a printed book, of course, so you'll want to track down this work online to actually check it out.<br /><br />How valuable will this be to you? Do you need another heavy, sexy design book? If you're really interested in this kind of work, you'll certainly already know about all of these designers, and probably about most of the peices included here. You've probably also read the designers' own blogs or web sites, so you'll know about their methods and interests in much more detail than you get here. (The description's statement that \\"little of this research has been seen outside the laboratory\\" is not true.) In that case, you get a book of pretty pictures that probably will sit on your shelf more than on your lap. If you're looking for code samples or detailed technical explanations, you'll be better off looking elsewhere.<br /><br />It's kind of a shame in the end. He's so talented, I want to see Maeda doing less surveying of the state of interaction design and more genuinely innovative and interesting things. In fact, I'll tell you what's needed: to finish the project he started in DBN, which is to really explain the concept of \\"coding elegance\\" (and the creativity behind it). There's a lot in all three books about the aesthetic appeal of well-written computer code, but there's not much about what specifically makes one algorithm more beautiful than another. This algorithmic elegance is really central to Maeda's work; he says that digital designers should appreciate both the coding and the visual/interactive design natures of the medium. The people represented in this book are the ones who'll be able to do that, but it hasn't happened yet.(and the creativity behind it). There's a lot in all three books about the aesthetic appeal of well-written computer code, but there's not much about what specifically makes one algorithm more beautiful than another. This algorithmic elegance is really central to Maeda's work; he says that digital designers should appreciate both the coding and the visual/interactive design natures of the medium. The people represented in this book are the ones who'll be able to do that, but it hasn't happened yet.	2004-10-22
US	53002494	RCVA6WRDZGBZJ	1932416080	853219704	McSweeney's Quarterly Concern, No. 13: An Assorted Sampler of North American Comic Drawings, Strips, and Illustrated Stories	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Astounding	An incredible feat of editing and printing. Which might not sound like much until you hold this thing in your hands. Chris Ware continues to be one of the finest craftspeople working in contemporary visual culture. His own drawn and written contributions here are at least as good as his work on his own projects, but it's the sheer quality of the overall packaging, design, and fine detail that makes McSweeney's 13 so good. If this thing doesn't win some major book awards, there's no justice.	2004-07-18
US	53002494	R10SAORPKT4OA0	1592530079	95279702	Universal Principles of Design	Books	5	17	32	N	N	Exceptional	Wonderful resource, well-written and attractively designed. I can't imagine any designer in any field not finding this invaluable. Ideal for any experience level as well. Hopefully this will become a standard book.	2004-01-01
US	53002494	R1HPZVO50C99I2	1904151043	853447054	Cascading Style Sheets: Separating Content from Presentation	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Fine but nothing unique	This book is perfectly fine if you can't be bothered to seek out most of this information online. The authors' own websites are actually some of the best places to start. But the book is useful, even down to the entire chapter devoted to analyzing Netscape 4's CSS abilities--something most others will simply not cover.<br />However, the price of this book is about two times too high. It's short, with no CD, but it runs as much as many of the \\"phone-book\\" tech books. This is a fifteen-dollar value, no more.	2003-08-30
US	53002494	R1NT5JW70ZZEOL	1590591577	897406989	Learn Design With Flash MX	Books	1	5	5	N	N	Wretched	This is a good idea, utterly ruined. It's a good idea to try to teach design as a sort of narrative with a cast of characters, but the writing here insults everyone's intelligence. And surely a book about visual design could have gotten a better layout and design treatment! Just look at the cover alone...<br />Sure there's some good points about visual design here, but you'll get as much out of Robin Williams &quot;Non-Designers Design Book&quot; or many other intro-level texts. This garbage drags down the Friends of ED series as a whole.<br />The best example of this kind of thing--learning design and programming together--is John Maeda's amazing &quot;Design By Numbers&quot; book, which teaches the basics of visual design and the basics of programming at once. Maeda--a respected designer/programmer--puts on every page simple examples, clearly presented and illustrated with restraint and thoughtfulness.<br />By the way, the &quot;teaching through narrative&quot; style is done really well in the series of &quot;Who's Afraid of C++&quot;, &quot;Who's Afraid of Java&quot; programming books.	2003-07-29
US	53002494	R19X5QBCDGGB53	0735711836	155953723	Object-Oriented Programming with ActionScript	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Outstanding	Not only the best advanced Flash MX book, but an exceptional programming book in general. Most authors of programming texts are terrible writers, but Hall and Wan actually have a voice and personality that lifts them above average. Complex topics are presented clearly and with wit.<br />This book covers topics that even more recent Flash MX books don't: patterns (hello other Flash writers, this is important!), components for programmers, and data structures and how to use them.<br />Most of all Wan and Hall are real Flash experts, not writers who go from technology to technology, leaving generic books in their wake. These guys know how the program works and how to work with it. There's no idealized discussion of OOP that ignores how Flash actually works (as in the William Drol book), and there's no whining about Flash's unusual methods of inheirtance (for example). And their projects and examples seem real, no discussion of OOP that starts with &quot;a Circle and Triangle are both types of Shape...&quot;	2003-04-01
US	53002494	R3M5LLVWUKOQ38	0766829103	9827176	Flash MX: Advanced ActionScript	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Comprehensive but cold	This is a quite thorough book that picks up where Mohler's intro book leaves off. It's written as if a Flash instructor literally transcribed his class presentations, which is good and bad. Explanations are long, but at times are wordy and dull. It will remind you at times of tedious homework assignments and drills. There is quite a bit of slogging through pages with only two or three long paragraphs with no Flash code. That's not bad, but it's a sign that an editor probably could have tightened up the writing here.<br />Also, these authors need to lighten up and learn to write! The tone they take is often &quot;academic&quot;, with all the snobbiness and overuse of big words and long sentences that comes with that. Often it's clear that one or the other of the two authors has written a particular passage--and there are some awful clunkers there. Better instructors and writers strive for a more human, friendly tone.<br />Also, there are coding techniques that seem to me not to reflect current or common Flash coding practice, like the frequent use of the eval() function and the set() function (which I've *never* seen other advanced Flash authors use).<br />One good thing: the two long projects in the book are kind of neat, definately better than in some other big Flash books.	2003-02-25
US	53002494	RQUIHZ2XN8SW6	0201729202	556026075	Flash and XML: A Developer's Guide	Books	3	3	3	N	Y	Not perfect, but decent	Note: this is a Flash 5 book. It contains no Flash MX content. There are significant changes to Flash in the MX version that make some of this book outdated.<br />This book would be ideal for someone who already knows a bit about each topic: actionscript, php, sql, but hasn't built anything with those languages yet. Maybe a Flash coder who's worked with a server-side programmer on a project, and now has to work alone?<br />It's decently written, with an occasional sense of humor. The writing is terse, and you won't get more than one explanation of each concept. The information comes thick and fast, with discussions of server protocols, mySQL, and PHP diving right in. Basic introductory material is brief or non-existant. In fact, if you don't already know something about PHP, you couldn't get any of this stuff to work, as you'll have to know how and where to put it on the server.<br />One very big problem is that there's almost no distinction between \\"code we're showing you to illustrate a concept\\" and \\"code that's part of the application we're building.\\" The authors will often just toss a couple of lines of code into a page, and it turns out to be something that needs to get added deep within a script you've been writing. Miss that line and everything will break.<br />The Flash code is good, although I wondered why the authors occassionaly used the ancient setProperty syntax and \\"eq\\" operators from Flash 4.<br />You can get this book easily for about a third of the list price, and for that it's certainly worth it, if for nothing but a good introduction to the concepts here.	2003-02-06
US	53002494	R2V9EDJPR3NHPD	1590590147	267434972	Object-Oriented Macromedia Flash MX	Books	2	17	19	N	Y	Good OOP can still be bad Actionscript	I'd originally written a more positive review, but I've reconsidered. There's a comment somewhere below that says something like \\"Drol's trying to shoehorn Flash into a paradigm that it doesn't fit\\" and that's really right.<br />OOP is the focus here, and Flash does do OOP, but in a very quirky way. Specificly, inheiritance--one of the three key concepts in OOP--simply doesn't work well in Flash. You just have to plan your code differently. It's worth noting that Wan and Hall, authors of the definitive OOP in Flash book \\"OOP in Actionscript\\" suggest that *you don't use inheiritance* unless there's no other way to structure your code. Unlike Drol, Wan and Hall are among the most active and helpful coders in the Flash programming world. They know what they're talking about.<br />Drol doesn't even mention some of the problems his approach to inheiritance can cause (specifically, firing an object's constructor function twice with each child object created). It's for Drol irresponsible to outline an approach like this that isn't aware of the substantial work that others in the Flash community have done to address and work around the problem. A complex application built Drol's way could have real problems in Flash.<br />Flash MX's component architecture is actually an extremely powerful flexible OOP system. But where Drol doesn't mention it  at all, Wan and Hall devote several chapters to it.<br />Ther's also just not too much meat on the bones. The examples really are pretty bad: bouncing balls? Yet another dynamic menu system? Instructional, but hardly inspiring, and they show up in *every* Flash book ever printed. (Tip to aspiring authors: find a graphic designer who can make your example projects really special. Don't use ugly \\"programmer graphics.\\")<br />Drol is a programmer first, and a Flasher second, which means he's opposed to workarounds to accomodate Flash's admittedly weird ways of doing things. There are places where he just doesn't go that deep, like Components or text handling. Again, these aren't the focus of the book, but things like that really are the basis of most Flash projects.<br />A final comparison to Wan and Hall's \\"OOP in Actionscript\\": Hall and Wan do cover Flash-specific concepts (like Components) in painful, astounding detail. They also aren't shy about digging into Flash's guts to build a workaround. Where Drol tends to keep his instrucitonal code examples short, at times at the expense of performance or flexibility, Wan and Hall have no qualms about tossing a two-page script out and expecting you to get it. In their book, new and complex topics fly past faster than you can think, sometimes even within code comments. Drol never does this, preferring to simplify and explain fundamentals.<br />Finally, where's the fun? Flash's appeal is that people with varied skills and interests can still do cool stuff with it. There are a lot of books that manage to preserve this spirit of play and experimentation, even when covering dense technical topics (again, Wan and Hall manage this). Drol's projects are dry and without real-world appeal. Why not build an object-based game? Or a small useful application, like a RSS-feed reader?nts or text handling. Again, these aren't the focus of the book, but things like that really are the basis of most Flash projects.<br />A final comparison to Wan and Hall's \\"OOP in Actionscript\\": Hall and Wan do cover Flash-specific concepts (like Components) in painful, astounding detail. They also aren't shy about digging into Flash's guts to build a workaround. Where Drol tends to keep his instrucitonal code examples short, at times at the expense of performance or flexibility, Wan and Hall have no qualms about tossing a two-page script out and expecting you to get it. In their book, new and complex topics fly past faster than you can think, sometimes even within code comments. Drol never does this, preferring to simplify and explain fundamentals.<br />Finally, where's the fun? Flash's appeal is that people with varied skills and interests can still do cool stuff with it. There are a lot of books that manage to preserve this spirit of play and experimentation, even when covering dense technical topics (again, Wan and Hall manage this). Drol's projects are dry and without real-world appeal. Why not build an object-based game? Or a small useful application, like a RSS-feed reader?	2003-01-08
US	53002494	R3RD65REBMAJKE	0446608483	835067122	The Pledge	Books	1	3	8	N	N	Stunningly bad	Wow, I'm surprised that anyone gave this more than 2 stars. This is a candidate for the worst book I've read in my life. It starts bad and gets worse, with stupid characters and absurd plot twists.<br />Most grating is the consistantly bad writing; Kean simply writes poor sentences, and it can be painful to read them. I mean, I don't expect Nabokov, or even Grisham, but this was just an amateur effort throughout. I guess I shouldn't have been surprised after reading Kean's thanks to his collegues at a big consulting firm for their support. Hey Kean, go back to your day job shredding documents rather than writing them!<br />Maybe I just felt cheated because I had to lug this 720-pager home from the library and back.	2002-11-03
US	53002494	R16IWMA8BX4K3F	1903450470	788645716	4x4 Generative Design (with Auto-Illustrator, Java, DBN, Lingo): Life/Oblivion	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Shovelware publishing from FOE	I think this book is a great idea, so three stars. ... Here we have yet another collection of chapters by designers who haven't communicated with each other, and apparently don't have a strong editor with an overall vision, so the book doesn't develop an idea throughout. That's fine if you like the rockstar approach, but why not just look at these guys' websites instead?<br />The problem with this is that there's just nothing new here. Everything here, and I mean everything, is available on the web, especially if you make contact with people and learn from work they've done.<br />Still, it's nice to see a somewhat unusual topic get a whole book, and Golan Levin is a genius, full stop, so I'm glad he's getting noticed.	2002-02-07
US	53002494	RBOUDO8H3KQVM	068486875X	11617672	Emergence: The Connected Lives of Ants, Brains, Cities, and Software	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Very pleasant, but not too deep	I'm a big fan of Johnson's writing, so I wanted to like this one more than I actually did. I can find something of real interest to me on almost every page : mentions of John Maeda, Danny Hillis, Mitch Resnik and StarLogo, interface design, the Sims; as well as plenty of stuff I have a passing interest in, like open-source software. But it looks like there's an awful lot of recycling of Johnson's work here, like the section on interaction design that mentions Maeda, Will Wright, and Jodi.org which is lifted almost verbatim from Johnson's essay in ID Magazine's 1999 Interactive Design awards issue. Several of his stuff for Salon seems to be cut-and-pasted here as well.<br />In other places he just hasn't gotten much deeper into topics than I have just by reading around on the web. There's not much more about the emergent properties of online communities (like Slashdot) than I've picked up in the last few years without even really reading that much on the topic, for example. Having read Mitch Resnik's book on StarLogo, there's essentially zero insight to be gained by Johnson's section on the project, other than to see it in the broader context of emergence.<br />Occasional references to more scholarly topics, like Walter Benjamin, give the book the overall feel of a really fine Master's Thesis: impeccable bibliography and footnoting, but is it really that insightful after all? It's certainly true that emergence is everywhere once you start to look for it, but a more in depth discussion might have been just as fun to read.	2002-01-23
US	53002494	R3JICBEHBATHEH	1858286824	209784360	The Rough Guide to Berlin 6 (Rough Guide Travel Guides)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Lots of outdated info	The Rough Guide to Berlin sure is a convenient size, it fits in my jacket pocket. It also has one or two useful maps. That postive comment out of the way...<br />My wife and I bought this before we moved to Berlin in Sept. 2001. I think this was only a couple of months after the 2001 edition had been published. We've been let down numerous times by it since: four restaurants reccommended are out of business, prices for museums and other places are about 20% too low, and other small facts are frequently just inaccurate enough to make planning hard.<br />Sure, budget priced places in Berlin come and go daily, but we've figured out that much of this edition wasn't updated since 2000, including the info about standard tourist attractions and well-known restaurants.  Visitors budgeting activities based on prices in this book might be dissapointed.<br />Finally, an information design complaint. Restaurant maps are numbered with the restaurants in alphabetical order, not  according to location. So, if you're standing in Kathe Kollwitz Platz, and you really want Chinese, you have to look at a map, find the numbers on the map in the neigborhood, then look through the whole alphabetical list at each one to see if you want to eat there. Believe me, that's frustrating in the dark on the street.<br />Better would be to forgo alphabetical listing at all, and list places by proximity. Who says, well, Akbar Pizza is closed, but lets try Amrit for indian since it's next on the list? No, you say, Akbar Pizza is closed, so what else is in the area? You can't easily answer that with the Rough Guide.	2001-12-30
US	53002494	R3MQFFAQ1GWJ13	073571102X	845467308	Homepage Usability: 50 Websites Deconstructed	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Calm down now, just take a deep breath	Nielsen is an important figure in web design, true, but that doesn't mean that everyt utterance deserves 5 stars. This is a reasonably interesting read, but hardly seems worth the praise here.<br />Yes, this is an application of Nielsen's ideas, which is great. You get to see how his design guidlines can apply to lots of sites, without really resulting in the kind of bland, lowest-common-denominator website that many designers fear Nielsen demands.<br />But, the approach here is just a fire hose of heuristics sprayed all over the place. Does an &quot;uncompromising autopsy&quot; (Amazon's words) really sound like an instructive, constructive read? It's really impossible to get a sense of priority here: is this a show-stopper usability problem or is it a minor thing? I'd rather see the kind of thing usability professionals actually write: an attack plan for fixing real problems, with an eye to what matters and what's a nice-to-have.	2001-12-03
US	53002494	RGC5RA9UL8BR1	0764535986	621587859	Server-Side Flash: Scripts, Databases, and Dynamic Development	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Best of its kind	Ok, &quot;server-side Flash&quot; is sort of misleading: Flash doesn't actually run on the server in the way that &quot;server-side Java&quot; does, for example.<br />This is basically the same idea as &quot;Flash 5 Dynamic Content Studio&quot; by Friends of Ed. This book is a bit drier and emphasizes code over everything else, which is as it should be. You won't find the pointless filler that pumps &quot;Dynamic Content Studio&quot; to 1000+ pages, but you won't be paying for it in money or weight, either. Of the two, this should be your choice if only because it doesn't suffer from the &quot;too many cooks&quot; syndrome of the Friends of Ed series. You don't need to figure out 8 peoples' coding style here like you do in &quot;Dynamic Content Studio.&quot;<br />True, this is not a complete book about middleware technologies, and I wouldn't want to dive into a serious ecommerce project with nothing more than this book, but it's a solid introduction to a wide range of technologies.	2001-07-30
US	53002494	R2C1R2K1BJB495	1903450365	356743639	New Masters of Flash: The 2002 Annual	Books	3	11	14	N	N	Pretty, but mostly empty	This is a prettier book than last year's edition of NMoF, and it's good that the code is now up to Flash 5 syntax. But it's a book full of kids who've come up with some nifty tricks. They're not &quot;masters&quot;, not when Yugo Nakamura is still out-thinking and out-programming everyone featured here.<br />Look, &quot;master&quot; is something you call someone with years of experience, who's done it all, and has arrived at a style of her own that makes a genuine contribution not just to some variation of drag-and-drop, but to the broader world of culture beyond dot-syntax and alpha tweens. Yugo's stuff is beginning to genuinely do that; the stuff in this book isn't even close.  Oh yeah, that's right, Yugo's studied architecture, and engineering, and math, and thinks creatively about connection people through novel interactive forms. The stuff in this book is just fashionable style. In a year, who out of NMoF will you still be impressed by?	2001-07-30
US	53002494	R2OCERQRTP6O66	1893115941	236026060	User Interface Design for Programmers	Books	5	48	56	N	N	Programmers, find out why UI designers have it tough!	Joel is a good writer who happens to be a programmer. That alone is enough to reccommend this one-of-a-kind book.  His website contains tons of insightful, opinionated essays, and most of the time he's right, whether his topic is design, business stragegy, HR, or coding techniques. He's an ex-Microsoft employee who's saavy enough to know what MS does right and what they don't.<br /> In this book, much of which is available at his site, he's taking an approach that I don't think anyone else has: why UI design matters to programmers. He's not talking to experienced visual desingers, or HCI people, or interaction desingers or what have you. He's talking to programmers, the folks who will actually write lines of code.  This book, in a quick 150 pages, shows programmers why interaction designers will spend, say, two days worrying about a couple of words or the placement of two buttons.<br />Like Steve Krug's book &quot;Don't Make Me Think&quot;, it's a somewhat lightweight treatment of the topic for an experienced UI desinger, but you'd be foolish to pass it up for that reason. This, along with Krug would be a great book for Project Managers or senior staff wondering what all the fuss about &quot;usability&quot; really means. Where Jakob Nielsen's preachy fussiness can bore you to tears, Joel and Krug will make you eager to put their ideas into practice.<br />Any company that can get its programmers, managers, and designers on the same page about the still under-appreciated value of UI design (and the analysis that goes into it) will find they can make better products faster.	2001-07-29
US	53002494	RP8LE5YEOWUT0	1903450357	981612113	Flash 5 ActionScript Studio	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Great book, advanced content at last	This book is, along with Moock's Actionscript book for O'Reilly, the first really solid book covering programming in Flash 5. That includes good stuff on planning projects, code structuring, OOP, design, and XML much more in depth than any other Flash book I've seen. It is definately advanced, perhaps not to the point of some of the hardcore OOP coders on the Flash lists, but quite complex and more than enough to challenge most readers, which is good.<br />The projects are good and varied, and it seems like Friends of Ed has at last gotten someone to insure that coding styles are reasonably consistant throughout the book--other of their Flash books have been essentially collections of inconsistant and often incompatible articles. The usual suspects do show up (spaceship games and rotating 3D cubes), but presented with a level of detail and thoroughness totally absent in other books (short tutorial in matrix math anyone?)<br />The great chapters on Sound and XML are almost worth the price alone, but the standout chapter is called &quot;Creativity in Practice&quot; and covers invaluable stuff like: working in teams, interaction planning, prototyping, information architecture, even some usability. In other words, the stuff that professional designers do the 80% of the time they're not messing around with software. It's exciting to see these topics appear in what could have been just another coding book.<br />I won't dock it a star, but one qualm is that it doesn't come with a CD (again contrary to Kevin's review below). You have to download about 80Megs of files from the publishers site. Come on guys, if there's no CD at least knock a few bucks off the price. And even at high-speeds, that 80Meg download is kind of a pain.	2001-06-10
US	53002494	RQVZNKZUMIY3T	1903450063	335669703	Flash 5 Dynamic Content Studio (with CD ROM)	Books	3	14	18	N	N	Don't Drop it on Your Foot.	This is quite a thing.  It's definately the first 1000+ book on using Flash with database-driven content. It's great that you get a thousand pages and more than a dozen authors for your fifty bucks. But what you get in size you lose in depth.<br />There's probably something for everyone here: using Flash with ASP, Perl, PHP, and ColdFusion. There are sections on Access, mySQL, and basic database design. If that's not enough you get some Flash games programming and a quite good appendix about object-oriented-programming in Flash (available as a sample chapter at the publisher's website).<br />Trouble is, there's something for everyone here. Do Flash developers really need to know all those server-side languages? Most of the chapters cover the same techniques for formatting data for Flash, albeit using the different languages above. Without a guiding idea that would structure the book as a series of concepts that build on each other, the book comes across as a series of remixes of the same basic thing: Perl scrips that search a database and return a urlencoded set of values, ASP scripts that search a database and return a urlencoded set of values, ColdFusion scripts that search...and so on. There's enough here on server-side programming to make you dangerous, but there's a reason that Perl (or ASP or PHP) books themselves can run a thousand pages.<br />There are some exceptions: coverage of both Flash ASP Turbine and Macromedia Generator break up the sameness of the book, and the section on XML looks good. But some of the other chapters seem out of place: some ho-hum &quot;interfaces that move around&quot; chapters and two chapters about building space-shoot-em-up games.<br />It's too bad that there's really nothing that teaches you the _really_ hard thing: how to design for the experience of continuous interaction with changeable, remote data. Not the technical stuff like adding a text box that gets filled with &quot;UserName,&quot; but what you might want to say to &quot;UserName&quot; and what she might want to do with all that data anyway.&quot;UserName&quot; and what she might want to do with all that data anyway.	2001-05-07
US	53002494	R307RGYAB95YQN	0471113522	580607155	The Executive Architect: Transforming Designers into Leaders	Books	3	1	5	N	N	Didn't read for building architecture, but was still useful	I found this remaindered for only five bucks. I read it not as a building architect, but as someone interested in what other creative/engineering disciplines had to say about creative projects that I could apply to web projects.<br />The authors needed a better editor, that's for sure. There's lots of awkward writing here, and the interviews with architects are virtually unreadable, rambling, and vague.<br />Those involved in web or software consulting will find not a lot new here--have the issues of client relations and creative services marketing really not had this kind of treatment before?	2001-04-16
US	53002494	R2T4UWRDL2P08R	1903450322	421857508	Foundation Actionscript	Books	3	37	37	N	N	Not advanced, although very good	There's a lot of great stuff here for the beginning programmer. If you are truly intimidated by programming ActionScript, this would be a great start.  For an advanced programmer, or someone familiar with other programming languages, this book does lack a bit.  The author, while he certainly does use Flash 5 syntax and examples, tends to program in the old-school Flash 4 way--using transparent buttons, etc. Flash 5 allows the programmer to do event-driven programming (like Java and Director do) which lends itself to learning (and doing) good object-oriented programming.  The author of this book virtually ignores the new event handlers in Flash 5 (onClipEvent(load, enterframe, etc)), preferring to build confusing work-arounds  like we had to do in Flash 4.<br />Although I'm not a huge fan of Flash 4-5 Magic books by David Emberton (they tend to walk you through examples without really explaining _why_ you're doing things), those do seem to make better use of the new Flash syntax. If you can afford it, get both this book and Flash Magic for a full lesson in ActionScripting.	2001-02-02
US	53002494	R1RX9HW5D0C9ZS	0789724103	593388060	Information Anxiety 2 (Hayden/Que)	Books	3	77	82	N	N	Information Architecture in a confident voice	Well, sure, it's good. Wurman did come up with the term Information Architecture (as he reminds us), and has some good insightful stuff to say about it.  Too bad that much of this book is pretty much the same kinds of information that you find on the web about IA: Mark Hurst and Nathan Shedroff have pieces nearly identical to stuff on their sites, and there are copious quotations from familiar online voices and sources.  A chapter about online commerce as &quot;conversation&quot; is derived pretty much wholesale from the Cluetrain Manifesto. In the end, it all pretty much boils down to listen to your customers, take some risks, ask the right questions.<br />Some of Wurman's opinions sound a little disingenuous in light of his own online work: a chapter which contains the standard complaints about high-bandwidth sites that don't offer useful information (useless plug-ins, over-reliance on graphics instead of text, etc) also points us to Wurman's Understanding USA web site, which starts with a Flash intro animation, is built almost solely from graphics, and even uses a Java applet in its Site Map.<br />It's too bad, but this really comes across as an entry-level text about presenting information in multiple contexts, including online. There's more about management style than I'd care for, and less about what kinds of visual presentations support what kinds of information.  It's admirably up-to-date: it's impressive that he managed to include the Florida ballot in a book printed in November 2000, for example.<br />Finally, I could have done without the frequent and lengthy references to TED, Wurman's own annual conference of designers, businesspeople, and entertainers.  The thing sounds like fun, but in the context of the book, the relevance is rarely clear.	2001-01-28
US	53002494	R1ZKFP00MGXHPW	0201354160	783715827	Director 7 and Lingo Authorized (2nd Edition)	Books	2	15	16	N	N	Authorized by not the best	macromedia's Authorized series of books are fine if you must learn by being hand-held through a series of steps throughout.  Unfortunately, you miss out on the context of what you're doing if you just follow steps. A  much better book, especially for the beginner, is Roberts/Gross's Director  X Demystified. That book assumes that you want to learn the whys and not  just the by-the-numbers hows of multimedia development.  Demystified also  covers Lingo in much more depth.	1999-12-14
US	53002494	R15EKRBRA5B8IR	0789721732	909609965	Java 2 From Scratch	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Good idea, but beginners be wary	When will authors of programming books get it? I'm still waiting for one who can really teach to a beginner. Haines' book is decent, and his project-based method (particularly the emphasis on design and process) is one that works well. But, as usual, the beginner will be lost very quickly in complex topics with little fundamental explanation.<br /> Take the description of an object's interface, a crucial concept in OOP. 'An interface is nothing more than the abstract definition of a set of methods that you must implement if you want the functionality of the interface.' (p131) Up to this point, there's been no discussion of what an 'abstract definition' in this context means, nor a description of what is involved in 'implementing' a 'set of methods.' More basic concepts, like classes and inheiritance, are just as flimsily explained.<br /> The book would be fine for someone with a good deal of experience in, say, an object-based scripting language like Javascript. It would be most appropriate for someone who's worked through another Java book (one of the 'learn some syntax, do an example, repeat for several hundred pages' types), but didn't really get the big picture of how Java is used in application design. Certainly the reader should be unafraid of long code examples.<br />  Typically for programming books, the content is presented with little wit, personality, or sense of enjoyment. Throughout, the grammer suffers from the sloppy informality (and overuse of exclamation points!!) I'd expect from a college freshman.<br /> In sum, not bad if you know the vocabulary and syntax of Java, but still can't 'speak it like a native.' For beginners, though, try something else first.	1999-11-22
US	53002494	R1OBYO71DR77C8	0262133547	955090447	Design By Numbers	Books	5	2	2	N	N	inventive and original achievement	Not meant to teach a useful programming language, as the last reviewer seems to have expected, but a critical innovation in the way design is taught. Design by Numbers is meant to teach digital designers the language  their tools already speak, but which students rarely learn. There's  compromises for both programmers and deisgners here--and that it's slow in  your browser is certainly not an important one--but this book offers  insights for both camps. It's also quite attractive and contains more  information than you'd expect on a quick flip through.	1999-07-06
