US	53008344	R67M6V7DNK47O	0743233484	751504452	Cross Bones (Temperance Brennan)	Books	4	0	2	N	Y	Well written, excellent detail, but a little slow	Cross Bones in the eighth installment in the series featuring Tempe Brennan, a forensic scientist with a practice split between North Caroline and Quebec.  In this episode, an autopsy of a murder victim leads Tempe to a skeleton found in an archeological dig during the 1960s.  Although quickly disproving a theory that the remains are those of Jesus, Tempe is caught up in a maelstrom of events that leads to an ancient tomb containing remains that may be those of the family of Jesus.<br /><br />The attention to historical and scientific detail in Cross Bones is remarkable, and the overall writing of the novel is very good.  However, the story is not engaging enough to carry the weight of the detail, which is apparently at the expense of any plot involving Tempe's personal life, which was an enjoyable aspect of other novels in this series.<br /><br />Fans of Kathy Reichs should definitely read Cross Bones, which is a fine novel but disappointing that a writer of Reichs caliber found it necessary to capitalize on the success of The Da Vinci Code.	2005-08-01
US	53008344	RMFYOF9YHH8QT	0399152725	547962267	Broken Prey (Lucas Davenport)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Full of action and suspenseful plot	The latest entrant in the Lucas Davenport series, Broken Prey is fast-paced and full of plot twists and surprises.  In this installment, Davenport's wife is working in London focusing the entire story on the pursuit of a serial killer that appears to have close ties to a state security hospital for the mentally ill.  Each time the police come close to identifying the killer, Sanford weaves in changes that smoothly take the investigation into an entirely different direction.<br /><br />Rounding out the rest of novel is a college student's passionate love affair, the involvement of a typically self-serving newspaper reporter, the potential retirement of Sloane, Davenport's long time colleague, and the usual political implications.<br /><br />Broken Prey will keep you reading straight through, with plenty of action, good writing, and engaging characters.  Note, however, that the novel is very violent and has graphic descriptions of violence.	2005-07-04
US	53008344	R25510BZOXQE31	0892968044	302810885	The Dangerous Hour: A Sharon McCone Mystery	Books	5	17	18	N	Y	Another excellent Sharon McCone story	The latest installment in the Sharon McCone series, The Dangerous Hours will not disappoint.  Sharon's life is finally coming together-her business is thriving, her relationship with Hy, her long-term boyfriend is moving towards serious commitment, and even her extended family seems to be settling down.<br /><br />Suddenly, Sharon's business is at risk from the illegal actions of a new, unlicensed employee.  Sharon and her entire team take on the challenge of finding out what is going on to save the agency and their jobs.  At the same time, Sharon finds help from old friends such as attorney Glenn Solomon and Hy, while making new friends in the form of two new hires to the agency.<br /><br />The answer to Sharon's current problems lies in an old case, and once she has a suspect in mind, Sharon goes after him with the single mindedness familiar from previous installments.  There is an interesting segue in this book where Sharon faces the impact of two of her cases on the people involved-this one, where the guilty party is truly criminal, and another case that affected someone who had simply fallen on bad times.  Sharon takes appropriate action in both instances, and I found this juxtaposition a highlight of the story.<br /><br />I have been a fan of Marcia Muller for a number of years, and really enjoyed The Dangerous Hour.  Muller has been able to grow and mature McCone in a manner that is consistent with Sharon's personality and history.  Although this is not quite the quick tempered, adventure seeking McCone of the past, it is also wonderful that Muller has not allowed McCone to become stale or obvious.  As always, the book is tightly written and flows smoothly through out, and hopefully we will not need to wait too long for a new book from Muller.	2004-09-06
US	53008344	RA6S0EYL4D8SM	0446533106	147734731	FBI Girl: How I Learned to Crack My Father's Code	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wonderful...a must for anyone  that was once a little girl	FBI Girl is a love story-a young girl's love for her family, portrayed primarily by her interactions with her father, mother, and younger brother Joey, who has Down's syndrome.  Maura is an Irish Catholic pre-teen, living in Los Angeles because of her father's job with the FBI.  Her father is reserved and uncommunicative, but shows his love for his family through his actions.  The descriptions of him checking and double-checking that all the windows and doors are closed and locked are enough to make even the reader feel more secure!<br /><br />Convinced that her father actually speaks in code, Maura does her best to emulate him, admiring J. Edgar Hoover, reading crime books in the library, and observing him closely.  The birth of Maura's youngest brother Joey, who has Down's syndrome, changes the family dynamic as her both of her parents focus on doing all they can on helping Joey have a full life.  Her parent's family also plays a role in the story, with a grandmother who is not quite comfortable with Joey, while a beloved uncle that is a priest shows Joey unquestioning love and acceptance.<br /><br />Maura's story is set in the 1960's, with a backdrop of Catholic grammar school, religion, assertiveness training for her mother, and even a marriage encounter weekend.  The setting gives context to the story line and perfectly stages the family and their home for the reader.  The book is as joyful as only a story with threads of sorrow can be, and I would recommend it highly.	2004-09-04
US	53008344	R2IJ2O2X6Y683U	0060096691	711830171	Being Committed: A Novel	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Funny and a litte poignant	Being Committed is an appealing and well written novel.  Hannah, the female protagonist is simultaneously funny and touching as she more or less romps her way through her romantic, professional, and family lives.<br /><br />The story opens with Hannah refusing a marriage proposal from a long-term boyfriend, only to change her mind a few weeks later.  As a prerequisite to reuniting, her boyfriend insists that Hannah deals with some issues from her past that are preventing her from being emotionally open. Hannah starts by meeting with her ex-husband, Jack, who she married when she was 20, and divorced five months later.  Gab, Hannah's sister-in-law, agrees to help Hannah become more feminine, and in doing so, Hannah develops a closer relationship with Gab, her brother, and their baby.  As Hannah does some soul searching, and has some difficult conversations with both Gab and Jack, she begins to question more of the assumptions in her life, including her distant relationship with her mother, her exceptional closeness with her father, and even her career choice of private detective.<br /><br />Don't let this description of how Hannah begins to find herself lead you to believe that Being Committed is not a funny novel.  It is light, entertaining, and filled with feminine antics and wiles.  This book is a step up from much of the \\"chick lit\\" genre, and I think most readers will enjoy the funny bits, identify with Hannah's coming of age, and relish the love stories.	2004-09-02
US	53008344	R201O2N9IEVY3J	1932112081	32060590	In Your Face (Lily Pascale Mysteries)	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Well written, with intelligent and engaging main character	In Your Face features Lily Pascale, a lecturer in English Literature with a reputation for solving crimes (Dead Clever).  In this second installment, Lily travels to London in response to a plea for help from a friend she has not seen since university, Jess.  Stirring Lily's curiosity is the strange story Jess tells about writing a freelance article about three women who have been stalked, all of whom are murdered on the same day.  However, Lily is also trying to escape the emotional turmoil of watching the man she thinks she loves marry a student that became pregnant after a one-night stand.<br /><br />The background of In Your Face is Lily's decision to stay with her father, who she does not know very well.  Long divorced from Lily's mother, her father has found a new girlfriend, Star, a doctor specializing in psychopathy.  Lily's conversations with Star help put Lily's efforts into a professional context, especially once Lily discovers Jess has disappeared.<br /><br />In Your Face is a finely written mystery with an intelligent and likable main character.  The turmoil in Lily's personal life is a consistent theme with the mystery, and helps the reader to empathize with Lily's emotions and actions. The plot has enough action to keep the reader engaged, and brief glimpses into the mind of the murderer add a new perspective.  I would strongly recommend this book to readers that enjoy female crime solvers or literary mysteries.	2004-08-29
US	53008344	R1J2IDIBP0CUSO	0446690546	245831551	The Curse of the Singles Table: A True Story of 1001 Nights Without Sex	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Wry, honest, and well written memoir of looking for love	The Curse of the Singles Table is a funny, wry memoir of Suzanne Schlosberg's streak of 1001 nights without sex.  After deciding to leave a long-term relationship with a man not interested in marriage, Suzanne sets out to find if not a Mr. Right, at least a Mr. Right Now.  Her search has her moving from Berkeley to small town life in Bend, Oregon, where she discovers it is possible to date every eligible, single man in town!<br /><br />Between Bend and moving back home to Los Angeles, Suzanne takes several side trips, either looking for a mate or seeking to get away from herself.  These include a challenging bike ride where her ex-boyfriend treats her like a genial stranger, and a hysterical New Year's Eve concert, where she if forced to justify her dateless state to strangers.<br /><br />During Suzanne's streak of celibacy, her younger sister announces her engagement, creating more stress for Suzanne to find a boyfriend, or at least a date for the wedding.  Suzanne's family attacks her singleness with blunt questions, and wonderment about her inability to pair up.<br /><br />After moving and trips have not resolved her dilemma, Suzanne tries \\"power dating,\\" using Match.com to set up coffee interviews and Jewish speed dating at the local Starbucks.  When a vacation leaves Suzanne stranded in a remote location, with no chance of dating or romantic involvement at all, Suzanne realizes that perhaps happiness does not require being part of a matched set, and celibacy is another name for saving your affection for someone you care for.<br /><br />The Curse of the Singles Table is alternately funny, ironic, and touching-and it is always honest.  Schlosberg is a freelance writer by profession, and the quality of the writing and pacing in this book demonstrates her talent and ability to craft an engaging read.	2004-08-15
US	53008344	R3J44O8439SYC1	0786869410	990264670	The Untold Story: My 20 Years Running the National Enquirer	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A tribute, not an expose	The Untold Story is a tribute to the people that made the National Enquirer a journalism trendsetter and one of best selling newspapers in the nation.  Iain Calder, the former editor-in-chief of the Enquirer, has written the biography of a newspaper with obvious affection and pride. Included in this accolade are the hardworking and colorful employees of the Enquirer-writers, photographers, editors, and business managers.  The celebrities, physicians, stars, and ordinary people that filled the pages of the Enquirer appear in The Untold Story treated with obvious respect and affection.  Interwoven through most of the book is Gene Pope, an extraordinary man and boss with rare vision, insight, and daring, albeit often coupled with a complex personality mix of compassion and uncompromising demands.<br /><br />Calder has done a fine job with The Untold Story-the book has a brisk pace, flows well, and always keeps the reader engaged and entertained.  The Untold Story is not an expose, and anyone looking for a detrimental gossip or the airing of nefarious deeds or secrets will be disappointed.  The book will not disappoint any reader looking for a clear and compelling story of one man's unique, challenging, and interesting career.	2004-08-15
US	53008344	RV627YMBMLVMI	0385336462	283052968	Unlucky in Law	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Well written legal thriller, 10th in a series	Unlucky in Law is the tenth in the Nina Reilly legal thriller series.  In this entrant, Reilly has temporarily relocated to Monterey County to be closer to Paul, her boyfriend.  The law firm Nina worked for at the beginning of her career has also offered her work on a murder trial, acting as second to an old and respected former mentor.  This creates a background of indecision that plagues Nina throughout the book.  Her commitment to Paul wavers, Nina's high-school age son wants to move back to Tahoe, and although Nina enjoys the firm she is working at, she misses her private practice.  The writing duo of \\"Perri O'Shaughnessy\\" finely illustrates Nina's soul searching, and Nina's hesitancy in making personal decisions adds tension to a challenging trial.<br /><br />Nina and her former mentor have taken on what seems to be case they are sure to lose.  The defendant has left incriminating evidence at a murder scene, and has confessed to grave robbing, including an artifact of sufficient value to present a felony case.  Nina has only two weeks to prepare, and her former boss has done a very poor job in getting ready for the trial.  Nina's anxiety, and desire to free the client she has come to believe is innocent, is nearly a tangible feeling for the reader.<br /><br />The storyline twists and turns to include a connection with the last Tsar of Russia, family secrets that change the entire trial, and deepening problems between Nina and Paul.  Although I am not a fan of exploitation of the Romanov family as a plot device, the writing skills of \\"Perri O'Shaughnessy\\" make this ploy acceptable.  The trial unfolds with enough surprises to almost border on the improbable, but the quality of writing will keep most readers engaged.  Any fan of legal thrillers or female sleuths will enjoy this book, and look forward to the next installment.	2004-08-10
US	53008344	R31HTQDCE69D4T	1400051061	711016590	Waking Beauty: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Wry and dark	Fat, homely, no--ugly Allison wakes up one morning to find herself suddenly and mysteriously super model perfect.  As with most Cinderella stories, Allison keeps her own intelligent, usually pleasant personality during the transformation.  However, she discovers that the world is different and easier for attractive people--men are infatuated with her, jobs fall into her lap, she is able to get revenge on her nasty room mate, and she finally gets a date with the average guy fat Allison has had a crush on.<br /><br />Underlying the transormation plot is Allison's relationship with her adoptive parents.  Her adopted mother is an alcoholic, and her adoptive father has refused to see or speak to her since she was five.  Allison has never sought out her birth mother, assuming her mother would reject Allison as most other people in the world have.<br /><br />Waking Beauty is dark, cynical, funny, and intriguing.  The characters may not be as well developed as they could be, the plot is well done and vibrant, creating an engrossing and enjoyable novel.	2004-08-02
US	53008344	RM5YQWGGBACE7	038551123X	999297410	Darkly Dreaming Dexter: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Strange, macabre thriller	Darkly Dreaming Dexter features Dexter, an altruistic serial killer--he only kills bad guys!  In this first outing, set in Miami, Dexter encounters another serial killer that seems so familiar, quite like himself, actually.  The search for this serial killer proceeds helped by Dexter's adopted sister, a police officer with aspirations to homicide detective.  Dexter's own position in law enforcement as a blood splatter analyst allows Dexter access to the crime sites and relationships with others in the department, creating additional background for the story.<br /><br />This novel is weird and twisted, alternately thrilling and funny.  Dexter's cold and unemotional personality easily flips between a complete lack of feeling to an almost child like wonderment about human feelings.<br /><br />Darkly Dreaming Dexter is quite unique, and definitely a read not to be missed.  It is an excellent first novel, and I look forward to reading more of Jeff Lindsay as his writing, and Dexter, develops.	2004-08-01
US	53008344	R1CDU2SD2Z4BRH	0373250592	632312082	The Thin Pink Line (Red Dress Ink)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fun and appealing	This sequel to The Thin Pink Line is well written and paced, and even funnier!  Having fallen in love with the abandoned baby she found on the church steps on Christmas Eve, Jane begins to \\"fix\\" her life and become a mother.  Despite her zany personality and sometimes over-the-top antics, Jane proves to be a surprisingly nurturing and good mom.<br /><br />Crossing the Line explores Jane's journey into motherhood through her relationships to her family, friends, and co-workers, which are seen from the viewpoint of an outsider-the social services worker who will decide if Jane is fit to keep baby Emma.  This approach works very well, creating easy transitions between the people who love Jane and the people she infuriates, and the people feel both ways!<br /><br />Along with becoming a mother, Jane's attempts to repair her romantic relationship with Tolkien and her friendship with a single black mother develop Jane's character in new directions.  These new dimensions in Jane's life add more substance to the story and add realism to the ending.<br /><br />Crossing the Line is delightfully funny, and portrays Jane's character with the right mix of empathy and impatience at her eccentricities.  This is an appealing and quick moving summer read.	2004-07-30
US	53008344	RS3WCVPAPD8TK	0312326327	993731505	The Dead	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Tense and suspenseful thriller	The Dead has all the essential elements of an absorbing thriller including an independent heroine, a cruel and malicious serial killer, police officers with human failings, and the subtext of a love story set in rainy, chilly Dublin.  What sets The Dead apart is Saxon, the hero, is a former FBI Agent turned novelist turned killer who is in love with the female Detective Chief Superintendent Grace Fitzgerald. The serial killer seems to have reappeared from the past to recreate new versions of his crimes.  Only Saxon knows for sure that the former killer is dead, and this new crime spree is a copycat killer.<br /><br />The plot of The Dead twists and turns, with suspicion falling on police officers, a newspaper reporter, the son of the alleged serial killer, and past coworkers of Saxon.  Each time the reader thinks they are getting close to identifying the killer, Ingrid Black offers surprise and a smooth move down a new path.<br /><br />The Dead is clever and skillfully written with strong characters and a well-developed plot.  A cold and rainy Dublin almost becomes a character itself, creating a background that highlights the character's thoughts and action.  The tension and suspense keeps the reader engaged for the entire book.  I would strongly recommend this book to fans of mystery, suspense, and women sleuths, and hope that we see more from Ingrid Black.	2004-07-28
US	53008344	R24SL2D42LJ6K0	034546222X	619839404	Bone Harvest	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Chilling and sad	Bone Harvest is the fourth entry in the Claire Watkins series, and is the first one that I have read-but I am looking for the first three books now!  The setting for Bone Harvest is a small Wisconsin farm town that does not have, or usually need, many law enforcement resources.  However, fifty years ago, a brutal mass murder in an isolated farmhouse eliminated an entire family and the police never found the killer.<br />Using the quiet farm community with its violent history as a background, Mary Logue develops an absorbing story focusing on strange events that begin taking place shortly before the fiftieth anniversary of the crime.  Pesticides stolen from the local farming co-operative reappear, first poisoning a garden, then a flock of chickens, and finally people at an outing.  Claire Watkins begins to draw connections to the long ago killings when an anonymous letter writer provides hints to the local newspaper.<br />Carefully tying together situations from today with characters from the past, Bone Harvest leads the reader to a conclusion that is simultaneously chilling and sad.  Well written, suspenseful, and demonstrating sensitivity and empathy, I would recommend Bone Harvest to anyone.	2004-07-18
US	53008344	RRPE8E89A3B43	031232118X	48498315	Something Borrowed	Books	5	50	63	N	N	A step beyond &quot;chick lit&quot;	Like so many other current novels, Something Borrowed focuses on good looking, successful, fun, and somewhat outrageous women in Manhattan looking for true love.  The similarity to these other books ends there, as Something Borrowed explores an illicit relationship from the perspective of the woman having an affair with her best friend's fiance.<br />Rachel is a transplant from Indiana, unhappily employed in NYC as an associate at a law firm.  Her best friend, Darcy, is engaged to marry one of Rachel's friends from law school.  Darcy is the perfect girl--pretty, vivacious, always gets what she wants, although somewhat petulant and demanding.  Just a few months before the wedding, Rachel has a one night stand with Darcy's fiance that develops into a full fledged love affiar.<br />Emily Giffin treats what could be an awkward topic with respect and empathy for all the characters.  Although Darcy is at times portrayed as a stereotype, most likely to be a better foil for Rachel's good girl persona, the reader is also treated to Darcy's sense of fun and loyalty.  This is a remarkably well written first novel, and one that I highly recommend.	2004-07-10
US	53008344	R349FYWKQMXI8B	0525947981	608087708	Bubbles a Broad	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	Bubbles A Broad...and smart, ingenious, and fun too!	Bubbles A Broad in the fourth installment of the series featuring Bubbles, a community college drop out, hair dresser, aspiring newspaper reporter, and single mother to a teen-aged daughter.  As always, Bubbles is flamboyant, tenacious, personable, and humorous while solving crimes, trying to secure a full time job on the local News-Times, and falling in love.<br />The crime solving starts when convicted murderess Carol Weaver escapes from prison and arrives unannounced to ask Bubbles' for her help in finding who really killed Carol's husband.  After a brief cat fight with a dissatisfied former hair dressing customer at a matronly charity lunch, Bubbles convinces her boss to let her focus on solving the crime.  This effort includes run-ins with the local steel company, and the wives and ex-wives of steel executives, along with Bubbles' own ex-husband and his new society wife.  If that isn't enough, Bubbles' daughter is interviewing for Princeton, her eccentric mother and equally eccentric friends are following Bubbles around town, and Bubbles is finally moving towards a serious relationship with Stiletto, her sexy and wealthy boyfriend.<br />The Bubbles books are lighthearted, but well written mysteries with workable plot lines and developed characters.  Bubbles A Broad is a delightful summer read both for the story and the effervescence of Bubbles herself.	2004-06-20
US	53008344	RRE21I20ADHPM	0060572140	34121802	Truth & Beauty: A Friendship	Books	4	5	7	N	N	A friendship...	Truth &amp; Beauty chronicles the friendship of two women, Ann Patchett and Lucy Grealy.  What makes the friendship unique is that both women are writers, and Lucy is a cancer survivor that has endured years of reconstructive facial surgery.<br />Ann Patchett is truly a superb writer, and leads the reader to craft images of friendship, devotion, and acceptance that stay in your mind long after you have finished the book.  Despite Lucy's health, there is no pity in their relationship and Patchett is honest enough to admit that at times she envied Lucy.<br />The beauty of Patchett's words can also be a barrier, and although the reader can believe the love the two women shared, it is difficult to understand or internalize.  Ann's need to chronicle the friendship as yet another tribute to Lucy.  Even planning to save their letters, betting they would be famous in the future, is more for preservation than financial gain.<br />I did struggle with the book in that I found it difficult to understand why Patchett's love and faith in Lucy was so enduring.  It is not disbelievable, in fact, the book does such a good job of making you believe it is true, you feel that you are being asked to take it on faith that this was a relationship that was joyous for Ann.<br />Definitely worth reading, if only for Patchett's skill alone, but be prepared to be somewhat unsettled at the end.	2004-06-14
US	53008344	R1L8X3210XQXPR	0758206186	969395440	Sullivan's Law (Rosenberg, Nancy Taylor)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Fast paced law enforcement nove.	Parole officer Carolyn Sullivan is struggling with an overwhelming workload, single motherhood, and law school when she lands two overlapping, high profile cases.  The first case is when one of her parole cases rapes and almost murders a young girl.  The second case is a 20-plus year old murder case, and Carolyn's involvement begins when she starts to think that the parolee might not ever have been guilty after all.<br />Carolyn feels guilty that because of her heavy caseload, she had not seen the accused rapist for the past year.  The case of her newest parolee, a mathematical genius convicted of murdering the son of a local police chief, immerses her in police corruption and cover-ups.  The background of Carolyn's working life are the challenges of single motherhood, a difficult law school curriculum, a past romance with her boss, the career of her artist brother, and a new romance with a neighbor.<br />Too many of the situations in Sullivan's Law are contrived, particularly Carolyn's actions when her children are threatened and a gun fight in a safe house. Although not as engaging as it might have been, Sullivan's Law is a fast read, and Rosenbergy's writing has improved measurably since some of her earlier work.	2004-05-17
US	53008344	R9GV6Q5D4GE6Z	0446533041	975506815	Good Grief	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Laugh and cry	Good Grief is one of those rare novels that sincerely makes you both laugh and cry, sometimes within the space of a few pages.  Sophie Stanton married late (at 33), and had just begun to become accustomed to married terms--my husband, us, and we--when her husband died of Hodgkin's disease before their fourth anniversary.<br />The story follows Sophie through the stages of grief, including a heartbreakingly funny scene where Sophie shows up at a job she hates wearing her robe, slippers, and unwashed hair.  Deciding that a change in geography will help her, Sophie moves from California to Oregon, where her best friend lives. In Oregon, Sophie starts piecing together a new life for herself by renting a house, volunteering to be a Big Sister, babysitting for her friend, and finding a new career as a baker.  Sophie also meets, dates, breaks up, and reunites with a man while her former mother-in-law slips into Alzheimer's disease.<br />What is unique about Good Grief is not the story line--as other reviewer have mentioned, this novel is probably borderline &quot;chick lit.&quot;  Good Grief is very well written, empathetic, and deals with issues head on instead of relying on contrived solutions to come to a happy ending.  I would strongly recommend this book!	2004-05-14
US	53008344	RK6EIJNWBMZ4W	0743476387	431373662	Show Me the Way: A Memoir in Stories	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Heartwarming, not heartbreaking	Show Me the Way is Jennifer Lauck?s third memoir, and continues to demonstrate her fine writing skills.  Jennifer has an amazing ability to examine the best and worst of humankind through the eyes of her life, communicating tremendous joy and grief with clarity and honesty.<br />Blackbird: A Childhood Lost and Found is the story of Lauck?s early childhood, which began with adoption by two loving parents and quickly slid into horrible abuse after their deaths.  Stillwaters follows Jennifer to her adoption by her father?s sister and through adolescence where resentment and anger took the place of love, caring, and compassion.  Through both of these books, the reader senses Jennifer marking time until adulthood, freedom, and independence.<br />Show Me the Way delivers the next step of Jennifer?s journey as she and her husband start a family.  Jennifer faces many of the same challenges as other women that are attempting to balance the roles of mother, wife, lover, and self.  Interspersed with Jennifer?s depiction of the physical emotion of childbirth and rearing are recollections of Jennifer?s own childhood and the loss of her parents.  The reader can almost feel Jennifer reaching back in time to her mother and father, both requesting and sending love and acceptance.  Approaching the birth of her second child, Jennifer seeks to make sure her son will never hurt his younger sister.  Wrapped through these conversations is the love Jennifer?s brother was afraid to feel and her sadness at his suicide in his early twenties.<br />After searching for adulthood for so long, Jennifer finally finds discovers it comes in fragments like fighting for your children with the pediatrician, or embracing a moment of child induced chaos during a Starbucks morning filled with people eager to get to their offices.<br />Show Me the Way is not as gripping or heartrending in the same way as Blackbird or Stillwaters, and it should not be.  It would be too simplistic to call Jennifer a survivor, for her spirit and ability to envelope the reader into her heart is something more.  Although Show Me the Way is strong enough to stand on its own, it is best read after Jennifer?s first two books so the reader can live Jennifer?s journey with her.ivor, for her spirit and ability to envelope the reader into her heart is something more.  Although Show Me the Way is strong enough to stand on its own, it is best read after Jennifer?s first two books so the reader can live Jennifer?s journey with her.	2004-05-02
US	53008344	R2G333T6J7BRD	0312282710	688647970	Deep Pockets	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	Engaging, well paced female PI / Cop mystery	The Carlotta Carlyle series is one of the best of the strong, independent, female private investigator / cop genre.  In the tenth installment, Deep Pockets, Carlotta's case involving a Harvard professor is a referral from her new boyfriend, FBI Agent Leon Wells.  Carlotta has little empathy for her new client, not only because of his elitist affiliation with the \\"world's greatest university,\\" but because the case involves blackmail over the client's love affair with an undergraduate student.  Carlotta's uncomfortable relationship with the Harvard professor parallels her equally uncomfortable relationship with Leon.  Both men represent \\"the establishment\\" to Carlotta, questioning her work methods and her independent desire to be in control.<br />Carlotta's case quickly expands from blackmail to murder, and introduces complications from her contacts at the Boston Police Department, a cleaning contractor, the professor's eccentric wife, and Harvard University administration.  Lies of omission and double crosses by the suspects lead Carlotta in a variety of directions, including some half-truths and breaking and entering of her own.  Carlotta's working activities occur against a backdrop of her relationships with Roz, her roommate, and Carlotta's unofficial little sister, Paolo, who is struggling with her awakening sexuality and puberty.  As always, Sam Gianelli, Carlotta's ex-boyfriend and mob member, is also haunting her heart and her daydreams.<br />Deep Pockets is a fast paced, engaging read, and a great addition to this series.  The characters and plot are well written and consistent, although the Harvard professor and Leon are a little flat.  Carlotta is an appealing hero, largely because of her portrayal as a person with doubts and imperfections and not a superwoman.  This is a very good read, relatively fast, and recommended for fans of private investigators and sleuths.	2004-04-10
US	53008344	R3G306AONZOHHK	1400041414	10533115	The Murder Room (Adam Dalgliesh Mystery Series #12)	Books	5	21	21	N	Y	P.D. James never disappoints...	The latest installment in the Adam Dalgliesh series, \\"The Murder Room\\" is classic P.D. James.  As some previous reviews have correctly pointed out, there is nothing new in this book.  As a reader, the appeal of P.D. James is not the search for something new, but rather the confidence of a high quality, well written mystery.<br />\\"The Murder Room\\" is set in a privately held, small, family museum that focuses on the interware years of 1919-39.  The title refers to one room in the museum that features infamous murders from this time period.  As always, P.D. James fills the book with interesting and complex characters--two dysfunctional families, loyal caretakers, mis-guided youths, and of course, New Scotland Yard.  Sex, intrigue, loyalty, and of course, money, create alliances between some characters while pitting others against one another.<br />Although the reader knows the murderer is likely to be closely connected to the museum, P.D. James leaves the reader guessing until quite close to the end. The detailed character development, and the way the words lead the reader to envision the atmosphere of this country museum will keep you entranced until the end.	2003-12-27
US	53008344	R3C9NIU0UHYRUT	0892967501	696759651	Ecstasy	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Enjoyable mystery, well developed characters	While covering an annual rock music festival for the local paper, reporter Alex Bernier interviews eight high school students who had been attending the festival together for years.  Alex finds the personalities and dynamics of the group interesting and decides to write a series of stories about the teens.  The day the first story appears in the paper, one of the teen-aged boys dies of what appears to be an accidental drug overdose.  Two more of the boys in the group die from what appears to be the same drug, and it is evident that there is more happening than a drug overdose.<br />Running parallel to the drug overdose story line is the opening of a new, environmentally friendly cooling system at the local college.  Initially implemented with few protests, a tampering incident turns the water red, forcing the school to turn off the system.  Assigned to investigate this story, Alex soon discovers that some of the drug-dealing suspects from the rock festival as well as some local businesses are somehow involved with the water cooling system.<br />Alex continues her relationship with the teens from the festival to attempt to discover where or from whom they got the highly potent LSD, and to try finding the motive for boy's deaths.  Alex's search for the truth becomes personal when her refusal to drop the story threatens her reputation, job, relationship with a police officer and potentially her freedom.<br />Saulnier offers well-developed characters in Ecstasy, realistically portraying diverse personalities-teens, Alex, police officers, and the local community.  Mystery aficionados will guess the culprit about two-thirds into the book, although the motive is not apparent until later.  The ending scene is pat and unrealistic, but it should not deter any reader from what is overall an enjoyable mystery.	2003-09-13
US	53008344	R1JKHFA0A11JCM	0316168688	744408823	The Dogs of Babel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Haunting grief	The Dogs of Babel is simultaneously difficult and easy to read.  Paul Iverson is mourning the death of his wife-somewhere in his soul, he knows she committed suicide, but his mind can only skirt around these thoughts.  A linguistics scholar, Paul decides to teach his wife's dog, Lorelei, to speak.  Lorelei was with Lexy, Paul's wife, the afternoon of her death, and Paul hopes Lorelei can tell him what happened.<br />Paul's search takes him into a nether world of psychics and animal cruelty as he abandons all semblance of a normal life.  In the end, Paul confirms to himself what he knew all along, and is able to begin to reclaim his life.<br />\\"The Dogs of Babel\\" has some upsetting references to animal cruelty and Paul' extreme grief is open to the reader.  This novel may not move you to tears while reading, but the sense of longing and mourning will stay with the reader for awhile.	2003-07-27
US	53008344	R3OJASGLZJ5VOZ	0399150463	748647534	The Book of Light	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Interesting concept	Lily Connor has temporary position as a chaplain at a Boston university when she encounters a classmate from Lily's own school days, Samantha.  Samantha seems to need more than Lily is willing to give, and presumes on a friendship Lily is not sure ever existed.<br />Samantha soon reaches out to Lily for help--Samantha is receiving photographs of what appears to be lost, pre-biblical text called &quot;Q&quot;--words of Jesus never before seen.  The plot twists and double twists with appearances of Samantha's assistant, the assistant's boyfriend, and Samantha's ex-husband, all of whom have some nefarious involvement with Q.<br />The Book of Light starts strongly, and the author's biblical references add wonderful authenticity to the story--the reader can sense the awe of this work.  Unfortunately, in the last few chapters the novel falls back to a cliched resolution not worthy of the characters or writing.  Still, an enjoyable read for mystery lovers.	2003-07-27
US	53008344	RZXZ6RS1R9NXT	0060520507	253092517	Sushi for Beginners: A Novel	Books	5	1	3	N	Y	Fun with some serious undertones	'Sushi for Beginners' focuses primarily on two very different women thrown together by work.  Lisa Edwards is a London sophisticate on a hot career track while Ashling Kennedy is the perfect second in command type person who wishes she had Lisa's elan and attitude.  The two women meet at the start up of Colleen, an edgy Irish fashion magazine.  The magazine and the two women's personal lives allow the introduction of a variety of interesting characters including Lisa's almost ex-husband, Ashling's feckless boyfriend and best friend, and Jack Devine, the handsome boss that both Lisa and Ashling find attractive.<br />'Sushi for Beginners' follows Lisa and Ashling as they seek professional and persona success.  As Lisa's marriage with the husband she still loves comes to an end, she discovers new aspect of herself and new priorities.  The journey, however, is filled with funny mis-steps and misunderstandings.  Ashling begins to learn to stand up for herself, and discovers true love simply by being herself.<br />This is a very enjoyable novel, and one I found difficult to put down.  The characters have enough foibles to be real, and the reader can empathize with the humiliation and embarassment both Lisa and Ashling encounter.  The surrounding characters are personable, interesting, and accessible.  I would highly recommend this to anyone who enjoys 'chick lit' or Marian Keyes' other books.	2003-07-12
US	53008344	R2HH0SC06T4136	1575667770	878347535	The Christmas Garden Affair : A Gardening Mystery	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Charming and Warm	Bunny Bainfield, like her namesake, is a gardener's nemesis.  More specifically, a nemsis to the professional gardening industry including academia, publishing, TV, distributors, and designers.  Bunny's talent for self promotion, lack of scruples, and comfort with flaunting her sexuality add up to a formidable competitor who is beginning to dominate the gardening industry.  She seems unstoppable, even acheiving a relationship with the new First Lady based on a mutual interest in native plants. Unfortunately for Bunny, she meets up with an enemy unwilling to stop at anything, including poisioning Bunny at a state dinner.<br />Louise Eldridge is a gardener of a milder type, with a gardening program on Public Television and a warm and loving family.  Louise has dabbled in murder investigations in the past, and jumps right into this case.  As part of the investigation, Louise finds herself questioning old friends and new, and seeing her relationship with her peers change as suspicion and unease with the police begins to rise.  Ultimately, Louise comes face to face with the killer, and finds herself questioning her own preconceptions.<br />\\"The Christmas Garden Affair\\" is made special by the intertwining relationships between people in the somewhat insular gardening trade.  Louise Eldridge is a delightful heroine, and even non-gardeners will find the dicussions about native plants interesting.  I recommend this book for anyone that enjoys cozy mysteries, female sleuths, and / or gardening.	2003-07-04
US	53008344	R1F0EGDBQ5000I	0767912233	745333509	Babyville: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Charming and fun	Babyville is one of this summer's must reads for anyone that enjoys \\"chick lit,\\" or babies!  Three women, connected, but very different, crawl, walk, and run their way to motherhood.  Each of the three finds that their path is very different than what they had imagined, but much sweeter for being so.<br />This is an engaging read, quick paced and well written.  Jane Green does an excellent job showing her character's weaknesses and strengths in ways in which the readers will emphasize.  Quite fun, and not total fluff-strongly recommended.	2003-07-03
US	53008344	RVSOLSCVAKMW1	074322907X	759069977	Temporary Sanity: A Crime Novel	Books	2	1	3	N	Y	Starts well, but plot development needs work	Marty Nickerson left the Massachusetts prosecutor's office to join a new defense attorney practice headed by her professional and personal partner, Harry Madigan.  Marty immediately has two virtually impossible cases to defend.  The first is a man who shot the suspect in his son's kidnapping and murder-an act TV cameras filmed as it occurred.  The second case is a battered woman charged with murdering her abusive boyfriend, who happens to have been a parole officer.<br />Complicating the cases is Marty's ex-boss, Geraldine Schilling, a tough and running for reelection prosecutor.  Assisting Geraldine is Stanley Edgarton, a new addition to the prosecutor's office, replacing Marty.  Stanley is disdainful of the residents and processes of Cape Cod, and is confident of maintaining his perfect conviction rate.  Marty's personal life is equally complex-- she is the single mother of teenaged son, and has invited Maggie, the daughter of the battered woman, to live with Marty and Luke.<br />Temporary Sanity steps the reader through the jury selection and beginning of the trial of the man accused of murder.  The judge initially assigned to the case is found stabbed in his chambers shortly after the trial begins.  The new judge on the case, Beatrice Nolan, is an old enemy of Harry and therefore of Marty.  Judge Nolan does everything she can to ensure Mary and Harry lose their case, and their client goes to jail.<br />Most of the Temporary Sanity is set against the backdrop of the trial, and the thoughts going through Marty's mind as she tries to figure out the connections between her two cases and the stabbing attack on the judge.  The book is well written and fast paced enough to keep the reader's attention.  However, the plot development becomes ludicrous and awkward-very disappointing in a book that begins with a great deal of potential.	2003-07-03
US	53008344	R3TMRSKI1PTNNL	006008166X	918735646	The Second Coming of Lucy Hatch	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Amazing work for a new writer	This book is amazingly well written for a first novel.  A mix between a romance novel and a coming of age story, it is both touching and joyful.<br />Lucy Hatch's husband dies in an accident, and Lucy moves back home to recover.  Shortly after she arrives, Lucy meets a man that &quot;rocks her world&quot; literally and figuratively. Most of the story focuses on Lucy's processing what love has been for, what is has not been, and what she wants it to be.<br />I don't typically read romance novels, but stayed with this one because of the depth of Lucy's feelings for her husband, her family, and the new man in her life.  It would be easy to assume that Lucy's marriage was loveless, and that she finds true love at last.  Underlying this all is the concept that one can only love someone as best and as far as they will let you.<br />I recommend this book highly, and can't wait for Marsha Moyer's next one.	2003-07-03
US	53008344	R3RSVX6LHJAHGP	0425188566	548940724	Click Here for Murder	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Fun and intelligenct mystery	Click Here for Murder is the second book in a new series featuring Turig Hopper, an Artificial Intelligence Personality.  In this installment, a talented system engineer that is working on creating a secure new home for Turig is murdered.  As Turig and coworkers / friends decide to look into Rays murder, they discover that Ray Santiago does not really exist.  Not only is the group concerned about how well they knew Ray, his access to the passwords that could shut Turig down introduces a new urgency to solving the crime.<br />Assisted by Maude, a coworker at Turigs birth company, and Tim, a new private detective, Turig discovers that Ray was involved in a virtual reality game that had moved into the physical world as a live action role play.  This plot line adds intensity to the story, and smoothes the introduction of a new character, Claudia, a private detective from Florida.  After a chase involving a good mix of technology and old fashioned who dun-it, the group solves Rays murder while setting up the reader nicely for the 3rd entrant in the series.<br />Donna Andrews does a great job intertwining technology and crime.  Turigs intelligence allows for a challenging story line, but her nascent personality prevents the book from becoming impersonal.  This is a fun read that both mystery lovers and technologists will enjoy, with unique characters that catch the readers attention.	2003-06-29
US	53008344	R120TK279TSOJI	0312313721	855501038	Every Woman for Herself	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Entertaining, enjoyable	Charlie Rhymer is the atypical hero of this fun and compact novel.  Childless, divorced, and in poor financial condition, Charlie is forced to move back to her childhood home.  Returning home is all, and more, than Charlie expected.  Her father's latest mistress is sleeping in Charlie's old room.  Charlie's sister Em is considering focusing on her black magic talents, and losing her virginity to help her do so.  Charlie's other sister, Anne, is living at home while recovering from breast cancer treatment, and her brother Bran has been sent home from his university position to finish his book.<br />Shortly before Charlie moves home, she accidentally kills her ex-husband's best friend Greg with a heavy frying pan.  Greg's widow, Angie, livid at the accidental death verdict, decides to stalk Charlie and try to ruin Charlie's reputation, following Charlie to the family home in Upvale. Add into this mix the two daughters of the father's mistress, a handsome famous actor and his daughter, a parson infatuated with Em, and some witchcraft and you end up with a delightful story.<br />\\"Every Woman for Herself\\" is warm and entertaining.  Charlie is a delightful character, and her budding romance with the famous actor is both funny and touching.  Although some of the situations are a far-fetched, they fit so well with the overall madcap storyline the reader will not mind a bit. Definitely recommended for anyone that enjoys a romantic story or is looking to read something cheering!	2003-06-29
US	53008344	R14IIL19HJZGTI	0471250678	156333263	On Target: How the World's Hottest Retailer Hit a Bullseye	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Light and easy read	If you are a fan of Target, or passionate about the retail industry (as I am!), 'On Target' is a broad overview of the history of Target.  The first five chapters explore what Target is--a high end discounter--and some of the tactics the company uses in its success.  Chapters 6-8 explore the history of the company, and recognizes the Dayton family for being honest, hardworking, and ambitious.  Chapters 9-11 explore some of Target's challenges and strategy.<br />This book is a good overview, but at less than 200 pages only skims the surface of what makes Target.  The author takes a very positive view, which may be entirely appropriate given the success of the company and the upstanding Dayton family.  However, there were certainly challenges, mis-steps, and successes that went in to building the brand and the stores that could have gone much further in understanding the company.<br />A must read for industry watchers, and an enjoyable read for customers or suppliers.  Not the definitive analysis of what or who makes Target what it is.	2003-06-29
US	53008344	R2NGCYC8Y0T64P	0373250282	742407428	Engaging Men	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Fun, dating romp	Angie DiFranco is in her early thirties without having achieved her relationship or career goals.  It seems all her ex-boyfriends have found marital bliss, while her two jobs interfere with developing a serious acting career.  Involved in a long term relationsip with a budding computer entrepreneur, Kirk, Angie decides to ply her feminine wiles to lead Kirk to the altar.<br />Assisting in Angie in her quest is an high school friend who thinks men are like tightly sealed jars--sometimes, someone loosens the cap and the next person opens the jar with ease.  Angie's male roomie Justin is a lovable if somewhat underdeveloped character who watches Angie's manipulative behavior with horror.  Rounding out the cast of characters is Angie's close and warm Italian family, her successful but unhappy friend Grace, and a visit to Kirk's stereotypical uptight New England family.<br />As Angie's plan to have Kirk propose to her begins to successfully unfold, she begins to question what she really wants in a mate and in her career.  After plotting and working hard to achieve what she thinks she wants, Angie begins to discover what she needs to be happy.<br />This is a fun read, with some engaging characters and situations.	2003-06-22
US	53008344	R24LI6N9ZJENO3	0596000359	927958500	Information Architecture for the World Wide Web: Designing Large-Scale Web Sites, 2nd Edition	Books	5	46	51	N	Y	Great 2nd Edition Update	This is a great book to introduce business people to information architecture, for architects to reinforce their skills, and for web designers to principles to apply to site design.  The second edition has more information and is more in depth than the first, and is well worth purchasing.<br />The first three chapters of the book explore what information architecture is and what it is needed.  Chapters 4 - 9, the &quot;Basic Principles of Information Architecture&quot; have the most substance.  Several chapters bear reading several times, including:<br />Chapter 5: Organization Systems, Chapter 7: Navigation Systems, Chapter 8: Search Systems and Chapter 9: Thesauri, Controlled Vocabularies, and Metadata<br />The sections on Process and Methodologyactice, and Organizational fit are all good for people learning about IA, but may be too basic for anyone that does a lot of work or reading in the field. The Education Chapter is already out of date, which is to be expected.<br />IA for the World Wide Web is a great book, worth reading and worth hanging onto for reference or to use to explain the IA to others.	2003-06-22
US	53008344	R2U7GV2P3CQGF8	1565123824	136695014	Single Wife	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Poignant and charming	Grace Brookman has become accustomed to her husband Laz disappearing for days, even a week.  His latest disappearance happens right after an evening of tenderness and passion, and as always, Grace covers up for Laz by lying and avoiding their families and friends.  Grace even strews her husband's belongings around their NYC apartment so that their maid will not realize he is gone.<br />The reader slowly begins to realize that Grace is coming to terms with Laz's abandonment through her attempts to live both their lives.  Instead of dealing with the issue head on, she probes it gently in her mind and only absorbs as much as she can handle at one time.  Grace begins to test her independence as her resentment builds at Laz for leaving her alone to handle several personal misfortunes.  At the same time, Laz's career is very publicly falling apart, a situation Grace and her family seem to think will go away if the do not talk about it.<br />Single Wife is charming and poignant.  Grace is funny and vulnerable, and appeals to the reader's empathy and patience as she finds strength in her own way.  This is definitely a very fine first novel, pieces of which will stay with the reader long after finishing.  I hope to see more writing from Nina Solomon in the future.	2003-06-07
US	53008344	R1J4S8K3BHUKJ2	1565123824	136695014	Single Wife	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Poignant and charming	Grace Brookman has become accustomed to her husband Laz disappearing for days, even a week.  His latest disappearance happens right after an evening of tenderness and passion, and as always, Grace covers up for Laz by lying and avoiding their families and friends.  Grace even strews her husband's belongings around their NYC apartment so that their maid will not realize he is gone.<br />The reader slowly begins to realize that Grace is coming to terms with Laz's abandonment through her attempts to live both their lives.  Instead of dealing with the issue head on, she probes it gently in her mind and only absorbs as much as she can handle at one time.  Grace begins to test her independence as her resentment builds at Laz for leaving her alone to handle several personal misfortunes.  At the same time, Laz's career is very publicly falling apart, a situation Grace and her family seem to think will go away if the do not talk about it.<br />Single Wife is charming and poignant.  Grace is funny and vulnerable, and appeals to the reader's empathy and patience as she finds strength in her own way.  This is definitely a very fine first novel, pieces of which will stay with the reader long after finishing.  I hope to see more writing from Nina Solomon in the future.	2003-06-07
US	53008344	R1CV120GWLK87O	0758200749	956884054	Dying To Meet You: A Samantha Shaw Mystery (Samantha Shaw Mysteries)	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Good new series potential...	Samantha Shaw stumbles into a murder investigation when she discovers Faye, a friend and client of Heart Mates, Samantha's dating agency, strangled in a hotel room.  This is the second time Samantha has been involved in a murder investigation-the first was the murder of her husband, during which Samantha discovered some unwelcome truths about her marriage.  Thrust into creating a new life for herself and her two sons, she runs a dating agency, reviews romance writers, and dabbles in private investigations. As part of this earlier investigation, Samantha developed an acrimonious relationship with the local police department, and gained a new boyfriend-a younger, handsome stud named Gabe.<br />The plot of Dying to Meet You focuses on finding Faye's killer among the citizens of their small town.  Suspects include Faye's estranged husband, the married man Faye had an affair with, his wife, and the partner of someone Faye met through the dating agency.  Samantha becomes involved to clear Faye's husband of suspicion, and relies on Gabe's private investigation business to attempt to legalize her work.  The romance between Gabe and Samantha is complicated by Samantha's growing attraction to a new police officer in town-one who writes romance novels in his spare time!<br />Well written for the cozy genre, Dying to Meet You is a quick and easy read.  Some unfortunate plot elements and awkward handling disturb the flow and are inconsistent with the characters personalities and intelligence.  The Samantha Shaw character has great potential to develop into an intelligent, madcap heroine series.	2003-06-07
US	53008344	R20EU5IPHLG7AN	0758200749	956884054	Dying To Meet You: A Samantha Shaw Mystery (Samantha Shaw Mysteries)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Good new series potential...	Samantha Shaw stumbles into a murder investigation when she discovers Faye, a friend and client of Heart Mates, Samantha's dating agency, strangled in a hotel room.  This is the second time Samantha has been involved in a murder investigation-the first was the murder of her husband, during which Samantha discovered some unwelcome truths about her marriage.  Thrust into creating a new life for herself and her two sons, she runs a dating agency, reviews romance writers, and dabbles in private investigations. As part of this earlier investigation, Samantha developed an acrimonious relationship with the local police department, and gained a new boyfriend-a younger, handsome stud named Gabe.<br />The plot of Dying to Meet You focuses on finding Faye's killer among the citizens of their small town.  Suspects include Faye's estranged husband, the married man Faye had an affair with, his wife, and the partner of someone Faye met through the dating agency.  Samantha becomes involved to clear Faye's husband of suspicion, and relies on Gabe's private investigation business to attempt to legalize her work.  The romance between Gabe and Samantha is complicated by Samantha's growing attraction to a new police officer in town-one who writes romance novels in his spare time!<br />Well written for the cozy genre, Dying to Meet You is a quick and easy read.  Some unfortunate plot elements and awkward handling disturb the flow and are inconsistent with the characters personalities and intelligence.  The Samantha Shaw character has great potential to develop into an intelligent, madcap heroine series.	2003-06-07
US	53008344	R20BQ60I64RN0X	0670032131	987829512	The Quality of Life Report	Books	3	13	16	N	N	Uneven reading experience...	Faced with losing her apartment and the meaninglessness of her job, Lucinda Trout abandons the superficialness, craziness, and expense of NCY and moves to a small city in the midwest.  She brings her career with her via freelance assignments, rents an apartment, and begins to socialize with the locals in search of \\"quality life.\\"<br />Of course, as anyone who is not a NY writer in her late 20's knows, it isn't that easy.  Lucinda's first spacious apartments stinks and has fleas, she finds the conversations of her new friends shallow, her boyfriend is a meth addict with 3 children with 3 different women, and she takes up drinking cheap grocery store wine.<br />The Quality of Life report veers from being laugh out loud funny, sad in its exposure of unrealized dreams, and frustrating in that the self centered and condescending lead character can't quite pull the reader all the way into her story.<br />Although readable, this book is disappointing.  It could have been so much more, but is too rife with stereotypes, thin characters, and self involvement to do the storyline justice.	2003-05-26
US	53008344	R2O4A1AZOV7RQ9	0525947116	165675459	In Full Bloom	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Funny and smart	Giving up on earning a PhD, Ginger Lee comes to NYC to be the assistant to her college room mate at a fashion magazine.  Ginger's successful real estate agent mother unexpectedly shows up one day, eager to marry Ginger off to an appropriate Korean spouse.  Simultaneously, the potential for a promotion at work raises Ginger's career competitiveness.  Ginger decides to sabotage her mother's efforts at matchmaking while dedicating herself to acheiving success in fashion.<br />Unlike many of the thousands of &quot;girl moves to NYC to make it big in fashion / publishing&quot; books, In Full Bloom actually has quite a few things to say.  Ginger's struggles with her Korean heritage / American upbringing are very well written.  The estrangement between Ginger's brother and mother over her brother's marriage to a white woman is not sugar coated, and helps the reader emphasize with Ginger's ambivalent romantic life.<br />The juxtaposition of Ginger's Korean family life and her career fashion nicely parallels the insincerities that exist in both worlds, and the assistance that can come from unexpected people.  The reader roots for Ginger to succeed in her career and to find the right person to share her life with, while nurturing her beautiful relationship with her mother.  The only off note in the book is Ginger's relationship with her college room mate, Sam, who seems to primarily use Ginger to only favor her own interests.<br />This book is a great mix of humor, family love, and watching Ginger begin to grow into adulthood and I recommend it highly.	2003-05-26
US	53008344	RQ9ASOMCCTBTQ	0385507755	641692200	A Million Little Pieces	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Anger and sadness	A Million Little Pieces explores James' time in a rehabilitation center and his fight back to sobriety.  His story is simultaneously heartbreaking and maddening.  A child of a very privileged upbringing, James drinks, takes drugs, destroys people and things with little remorse.  At the age of 23, after hitting bottom by seriously injuring himself during a blackout, his parents pay his way into an expensive rehabilitation center.<br />At the rehabiliation center, James meets people with all different types of lives--ex-con's, prostitutes, poor people, very rich people, people who have given up on themselves, and people who are just hanging on.  Still retaining his stubborness, James rejects the center's reliance on AA and the 12-steps, and commits to changing his life by the sheer strength of his own will.<br />There are moments in this book that are heartbreaking--the first 100 pages brought tears to my eyes twice.  Even if you don't have empathy for James and his situation, the description of his dental surgery without any medication drags you into James' soul and creates great respect for what ordinary people do--the dentist--to help others.<br />This book was hard to put down, you can't help wanting everyone at the center to get their lives back, even though you know chances are good they will not.  At times, the reading is difficult.  Bad things happen to \\"good\\" people and \\"bad\\" people, and everyone is simply trying to make their way through the world.  Merely  human, James is simultaneously strong and fragile and so is his reader.	2003-05-24
US	53008344	RMP9BK108I3GO	0060096675	958304531	Behaving Like Adults: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	Poignant and amusing	Behaving Like Adults focuses on the months before and after the lead character's--Holly--30th birthday.  Holly owns her own business, which is a match making service, and employs a varied cast of characters, including her own sister.<br />Early in the book, Holly loses patience with her long term boyfriend because of his constant immaturity, and breaks up with him.  However, the two keep in touch and obviously still care for each other, even though they have several disagreements.  Holly takes advantage of her own business, selecting a date from the \\"top of the stack\\" for herself.  Their second date ends in a case of date rape, understandably sinking Holly into a depression that negatively impacts her work, her friendships, and her relationships with her family.<br />As Holly fights to regain control of her sense of self and her life, events continue to explode around her.  One of her sisters comes out about her homosexuality, the other believes her husband is having an affair, a cor-worker enjoys sudden success in his acting career, and two other friends hook up romantically.  Most importantly, her ex-boyfriend discovers information about his past which changes his perspective on himself and his life.<br />Behaving Like Adults is well written, and the development of Holly's character is empathetic.  Her parents are well drawn and most readers will want them for their own. The novel is not four stars because it is too long in several places, and tends to swing unevenly between comedy and sadness.	2003-05-23
US	53008344	R3V6LMVHVLGT6W	038550926X	167500313	The Devil Wears Prada: A Novel	Books	4	1	5	N	N	Not great literature, but not meant to be!	I enjoyed \\"The Devil Wears Prada\\" immensely.  This is not great, meaningful literature, and the fact Lauren Weisberger is a new writer is abundantly clear.  However, if you accept that this book is meant to be entertaining and gossipy, placed in a setting where intellectuals do not abound, you will find it quite fun.<br />The main character, Amanda, accepts a job at a fasion magazine primarily because she is just out of school, she needs a job, and has no ambition beyond wanting to work for The New Yorker some day.  Miranda, her boss, is a caricature of all the horrible bosses you have ever had or heard about.  Amanda's co-workers live in fear of Miranda, but have also taken on some of Miranda's worst characteristics, yielding what little power they have maliciously.<br />Much of the structure of the book is around boundaries.  This is Amanda's first job, and she does not know how to set boundaries between her work and personal life.  Her boss has no boundaries between herself and her underlings.  Amanda and her college boy friend struggle to redefine themselves as a couple in an adult world, while Amanda's best friend slips over the line of partying into alcoholism.<br />Certainly, some of the characters are shallow and the action is contrived.  This is not the worst or best example of \\"Chick Lit,\\" and is fun read if taken at face value.	2003-05-21
US	53008344	R1MQB6ZDJAQRPL	0446531480	987364760	A Body to Die For	Books	4	15	17	N	Y	Beach read!	A Body to Die For is the second book of a new series featuring Bailey Weggins, a freelance magazine writer who specializes in true crime stories.  In this installment, Bailey travels from NYC to Massachusetts for some rest and relaxation at a spa owned by a long time friend of Bailey's mother.  Shortly after Baily arrives, a spa employee is found murdered.  Bailey soon discovers that this is not not the first death during the past few months at the spa, and that several other intrigues are also going on.<br />In the true spirit of nosy writers who interfere with police work, Bailey begins interviewing reluctant spa employees and other bystanders, and following up on clues.  At the same time, Bailey is managing her conflicted romantic life, finding herself interested in both a boyfriend from the past and one of the policemen involved in the murder case.<br />Kate White's writing style is breezy and not unlike that of the fashion / beauty magazine Ms. White edits.  The phrasing is awkward or blunt at times, and Bailey frequently acts like too much of a neophyte for her crime writing background.  However, A Body to Die For is a swift paced read perfect for lazy summer afternoons.	2003-05-21
US	53008344	R2MJTDEXIM2TFI	0786868821	913926982	Cad: Confessions of a Toxic Bachelor	Books	3	4	5	N	Y	Entertaining, but not 'literature'	Coming out of an early marriage to a somewhat lost young woman, Rick Marin decides to embrace a &quot;love 'em and leave 'em&quot; single life.  Readers who enjoy &quot;Bridget Jones&quot; type books or Cosmopolitan magazine will enjoy this male perspective on the NYC dating scene.<br />For much of the book, the writer works freelance, including writing articles for fashion and beauty magazines such as Allure and Mademoiselle.  Although his work may address things naive women can do when 'he' doesn't call, the writer is more cavalier in his own life--he doesn't call because he never had any intention of calling you and doesn't care.  Many of the female characters in the book are self involved, insecure, or just flighty, offering some amusement in the cavalier treatment they receive from the cad.  The vulnerability of some of these women sheds some unflattering light on the writer at times.<br />Consistent with other stories of this genre, the writer grows into an adult during the course of the book.  Treatment of a family tragedy is conveyed well and with empathy, without being overly sentimental.  However, the final pieces where the writer finds true love aren't consistent with the rest of the novel and feel like they don't quite fit.<br />Overall, a  novel with some literary pretensions that manages to entertain most of the time.	2003-05-21
US	53008344	R2XZEWEW1BK83O	038097844X	265821531	The Body in the Lighthouse: A Faith Fairchild Mystery (Faith Fairchild Mysteries)	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Well written, engaging mystery	This is the thirteenth novel in the Faith Fairchild series, and Katherine Hall Page continues to provide a fine reading experience.  Unlike some other long running series, Page's writing continues to be clear, consistent, and the story lines and characters remain congruent.<br />The Body in the Lighthouse finds Faith and her family at the summer vacation home in Maine.  While waiting for renovations on the home to be completed, the Fairchild family moves in temporarily with the mother of Faith's best friend Pix.  This creates the setting for Faith to gain understanding  of and empathy with the long-term residents of the town and their slow loss of their property and livelihoods to summer residents and newcomers building &quot;MacMansions.&quot;<br />The unrest in the town is also portrayed through a quarrel between families over lobster traps, a local play that puts a spotlight on the unknown talents of some residents,  and a Romeo &amp; Juliet type love story.  As in the other stories in the series, Faith's family life runs in parallel to these activities and the crimes in the town.<br />Well written and contemporary without relying on undue violence or profanity, The Body in the Lighthouse is an enjoyable read.  Although the final conclusion will not be a surprise to most readers, it is satisfyingly consistent with the story line and human nature.	2003-05-18
US	53008344	R3LLXCS5FPS2ZU	0345458486	109136189	Death in the Family	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Well written British mystery	A new entry in the series featuring Chief Detective Lloyd and Chief Detective Judy Hill transitions their relationship towards domestic harmony.  Judy gives birth to their daughter early in the novel, and a wedding if finally a serious conversation.<br />Running in parallel to the story line of Judy's & Lloyd's relationship is a kidnapping and a  murder.  The kidnapping is of a young infant that was born in the same hospital and at the same time as Judy & Lloyd's baby.  McGown skillfully uses the kidnapping to explore Judy's feelings towards motherhood, work, and love for her new family.<br />This is not to say that the crimes take second place through out the book.  There is quite a cast of potential suspects, and motive and opportunity are explored for each.  There are two points in the book where the characters and possibilities are so numerous that you need to read carefully.<br />Although the final culprit is not a surprise, the role that coincidence plays in solving the crime adds tension to the ending.	2003-05-12
US	53008344	R5SDFK809KROU	1565847679	529367395	Firewall: A Kurt Wallander Mystery (Kurt Wallander Mysteries)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Complex and detailed thriller	There are two primary plot lines in Firewall--a potential crime and the personal life of Inspect Wallandar, the police lead on the case.  Mankell's smooth writing allows the reader to keep pace with a detailed plot.  The introduction of new characters into the story is always well timed, in that they continue to hold the reader's interest and are congruent with the the story line.<br />Inspecter Wallandar is a very human police inspector, struggling with loneliness, job anxiety, and retirement at some point in the future.  His reflections on his personal relationships and career transcend both age and nationality.<br />The translation of this book from Swedish is appears to be seamless and is easy to understand with apparently no loss of local color.  This is the first Inspector Wallandar book I have read, and is good enough to entice me to seek out the others.	2003-05-11
US	53008344	R2Q79RNN2VZ6MD	0385507720	63448546	Managing Up: How to Forge an Effective Relationship With Those Above You	Books	2	11	17	N	N	Brief, pragmatic, but no &quot;new news&quot;	At the risk of being controversial, I think this book is less about management (control or directing a business) and more about support.  The book has some pragmatic advice--being loyal, being truthful, thinking ahead, being organized.<br />If having Rosanne control all the information that reached Jack Welch, and highlighting only what she thought he should read worked--more power to them.  However, in today's business environment, top executives would be considered rather hopeless if their secretary pre-read their email for them.  Would suggest that any reader be quite cautious in approaching ideas of this type with their boss--there is much room for hurt feelings and misunderstandings with everyone else in the workplace.<br />If you are looking for ideas about organization, or what it is like to subsume your career to someone else's, you will find some insight.  Personally, I see it as another attempt to cash in on the GE / Jack Welch mystique.  I wonder what the employees of GE REALLY thought when Rosanne walked the hallways wearing a Tiara?	2003-05-10
US	53008344	R3EK1FWVMG996Q	0375412409	353986140	Good Morning, Killer	Books	3	8	9	N	Y	One interesting plot thread...	The story of the child abductor that Ana Grey, FBI agent is hunting with the assistance of the Santa Monica police department is riveting.  Ana's relationship with one of the young victims adds dimension to Ana's character and engages the reader in the hunt and capture of the suspect.<br />The other characters in the story, however, are so thinly formed that they add no veracity to the rather incongruous turns in the story.  One co-worker that had a friction filled relationship suddenly comes to Ana's aid, while another character moves from a bereaved widow to a crazy killer.<br />A truly unbelievable relationship is Ana's so-called obsession with Andrew Berringer of the Santa Monica PD.  The reader is not given any opportunity to begin to understand Andrew or the relationship he has with Ana.  It is difficult to believe that Ana risks her much loved career not once, not twice, but three times for someone that you can't really feel her connect with.<br />Overall, Good Morning Killer is a relatively quick read.  The strength of the abduction plot is flawed by the sub-plot with Ana and Andrew.  Although I enjoyed the book, I found I began skimming through the final portion.	2003-05-10
US	53008344	R5CTM0LFYAMQZ	1576738191	224811550	The Negotiator (O'Malley Series, Book 1)	Books	1	20	35	N	Y	Somewhat engaging, but awkward plot	I purchased The Negotiator thinking it was a mystery novel, which it is to some extent.  I was not aware of the religious overtones of the book, and found their introduction into the story somewhat disruptive.<br />The mystery elements of the book are engaging, and the overall writing is better than average.  The plot line is relatively strong, and there is enough action to be engaging.<br />However, the discussions of Christianity were rather forced.  When Dave, the lead character, is reflecting on his religious beliefs, the text is consistent with his character.  The discussions about God are awkward, and Kate's sudden conversion to being a &quot;believer&quot; based on a deal she constructs with via prayer is not a good fit with her characterization in the novel.<br />Anyone who wants a G-rated read will enjoy this book, or if you can move past the over management of parts of the storyline, you may enjoy it overall.	2003-01-04
US	53008344	R26YWN5Q6180ZK	0752842978	344318901	Dont Mess With Mrs In-Between (Pi Grace Smith Mysteries)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	British myster with strong female lead character...	Don't mess... is a fast paced novel with a wealth of interesting characters.  At times the plot stretches credibility, but still in an enjoyable fashion.  The author does a nice job of introducing enough characters to keep this relatively lengthy novel interesting (400+ pages), and does so in a way that it is still easy for the reader track.<br />The novel is modern-British in tone and nature, but still very accessible.  Although not great literature, the book holds your attention throughout.	2003-01-04
US	53008344	RPWPS31FLMXV3	0553802585	383484197	I, Richard	Books	2	28	30	N	Y	Disappointing offering from a favorite...	Fans of Elizabeth George will be disappointed in I, Richard.  The quality of the short stories may not be George's best work, but they are an enjoyable read if you like either the approach or want to read everything written by a favorite author.<br />What was very disappointing is that all of these stories have been published previously (one was slightly changed from the original version), but this is not noted anywhere in the book.  This slim book appears to be not much more than an attempt to take advantage of unknowing buyers.	2002-12-01
US	53008344	R3FW8V3ZZJ0L91	0060523794	577741355	Who Says Elephants Can't Dance?:  Inside IBM's Historic Turnaround	Books	2	52	68	N	Y	Over simplified and superficial	If you are looking for a condensed version of IBM highlights under Gerstner's lead, this book will meet your needs.  If you are interested in gaining an understanding of IBM's issues that led to the &quot;elephant&quot; stumbling, and Gerstner's solutions, you will be disappointed.<br />&quot;Who says...&quot; is a quick read with a superficial treatment of the various issues facing IBM and a simplified view into Gerstner's techniques to turn the company around.  Many different scenarios are rushed through, leaving the reader wanting to know more about how and why.  The solutions offered by Gerstner and his team seem pat--surely there was more going on.<br />Gerstner can not answer all his critics or the legion of angry ex-IBM'ers in a single book, particularly so close to his career transition. Unfortunately, this book misses the opportunity to provide the reader with anything more than a superficial insight into one man's view of IBM.	2002-12-01
US	53008344	RMDKZ6UDTCNNA	0525946535	26324951	One-Hit Wonder	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Interesting mix of fun, growing up, and sadness	... Although there are some bits about Anna finding her self confidence via clothes and dating, this is not a typical British \\"shallow party chick\\" book.  During the process of learning about her sister and her life, Anna begins to grow up and find her own independence.  There are parts of the book that are formulaic, but the loneliness of her sister's life is palpable and adroit handling of the sadness of her death and life redeems the rest of the book.	2002-07-21
US	53008344	RAL7XFZX7TMEO	0399147381	304671626	Hemlock Bay (FBI Thrillers, No. 6)	Books	1	3	5	N	Y	Disappointing suspense thriller	Hemlock Bay has two primary plots focusing on FBI agent Dillon Savich's work and family.  Both plots become progessively more unbelievable, culminating in endings that are nothing short of ridiculous.  Although Coulter manages to keep two disparate story lines somewhat apace, the characters and the connections between them are shallow.  Compared to other books by Catherine Coulter, this is an unfortunate disappointment.	2001-09-22
