US	53006845	R29GP7BGV88TUX	0765310848	348890104	Nobody Comes Back: A Novel of the Battle of the Bulge	Books	5	20	25	N	N	About valor	Despite the subtitle of this book (A Novel of the Battle of the Bulge) this narration transcends any specific battle or any specific war and focuses on the internal skirmishes of its young protagonist. Donn Pearce (who also wrote Cool Hand Luke) is a miniaturist, a seeker of the internal truth, the discoverer of some of the psychological gears, knobs, or buttons that propel an individual to behave in extraordinary, or peculiar, or mad, or incandescent ways. NOBODY COMES BACK is the story of Toby Parker, a boy of sixteen who has never known normalcy. As a kid his high IQ soon made him aware of the marginality of the family he had been born into. They functioned at the edges of society, teetering between sanity and madness, between poverty and indigence; they were people who lacked the buffers that might have protected them against, or even allowed them to postpone for a few days, the inevitable consequences of their own follies. A master at avoidance, Toby came to the Army with his own agenda and keenly developed skills at navigating through turbulence and danger.  <br /> <br />Pearce knits together the two stories about Toby Parker (pre-war and wartime) by the device of letting the exhausted soldier regress in dreams and memories to his previous life. This creates a contrast and a counterpoint to the grotesque brutality of the war itself. He takes the inadequate training he has been given to fight a war in stride, for his background has prepared him to understand (and therefore stand up to) not only the crazy ways of the US Army but the similarly deranged behavior of the Germans.  <br /> <br />This book will bring great pleasure to the slow reader able to savor the intricate details set forth by the author about how a human being can hold up despite unbearable internal and external abuse. Probably a classic.	2005-01-11
US	53006845	R1LBTNRO4ZPKVC	0684869403	299270934	The Wife, A Novel	Books	5	40	48	N	N	A Score Settled	The WIFE surely contains some of the most delectable prose to be seen in print in recent years; but it is not because of the wonderful writing that this novel demands a second reading. No, it is that the surprise ending of the book needs to spend its awesome power in order to set us free to thoroughly enjoy the subtext and underlying structures of the book; for these can only be seen and felt once we know how the novel ends. A second reading is just as delightful, and perhaps more rewarding, than the first one. <br />The book's layering of thought and emotion is so deftly rendered that on its surface it appears to be another in the genre that deals with the tensions between an older, prestigious, male and the younger pretty female dilettante, who in time becomes an acolyte to the man's talent; but all along we sense that under the surface there is much more than that, as, indeed, there certainly is. The author is an irrepressible humorist of the type that is funny especially when she is trying not to be. It is a book about the sweet and deadly revenge of the weak against an oppressor; it is a sociology about how a human relationship can evolve from symbiosis to parasitic exploitation, from sharing to taking to grabbing; and if Meg Wolitzer borrows some of the techniques of police novels, she rewards the reader by serving up the Holy Grail of detective books: a truly perfect crime. An extraordinary book that is likely to become a minor classic.	2003-05-28
US	53006845	RL8SYZ85SAG7L	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	1	15	21	N	N	A Classic	This is a classic illustration of a failed work. The book should be mandatory reading at writer's wrokshops, for it teaches that a facility for writing pretty sentences does not imply an equal facility in creating a readable (never mind great) novel; just as a superb skill in laying bricks does not endow the bricklayer with the capacity to design and build a house.<br />The first couple of chapters of THE LOVELY BONES are not only readable, but exciting and fine; but soon the reader is dragged through a shapeless, pretentious, and silly meandering that leads to a bland and pointless finale; all along, however, encountering gracious and often gorgeous sentences. Central to the book is the image of a large sinkhole that swallows cars and refrigerators and a safe that contains the bones of the title. Well, not all the bones of the title but most of them. In a way the book itself becomes a sinkhole into which hours of our time and attention are sucked up in a muck of decaying cliches, simplemindedness, and pretentiousness.<br />Perhaps a strong editor (was any kind of an editor involved in this production?) could have cut through the self-indulgence and imposed on the writer the discipline needed to produce a fine novel. As it stands, THE LOVELY BONES is a most unsatisfactory reading experience.	2003-05-19
US	53006845	R9NAPW0CKQGCQ	0802117163	81595846	The Sexual Life of Catherine M.	Books	2	21	25	N	N	Ode to Sturdy Soft Tissues	This is the type of book that shows up occasionally in the literature, a true oddity that stands alone, unclassifiable in terms of known genres, not quite what it appears to be, but not entirely different from it, either. I am thinking of St. Exupery's LITTLE PRINCE, or Pauline Reage's THE STORY OF O: the first not a children's story, the second not a sadomasochistic tract. Each a single, luminous object that cannot be imitated, that will never be the foundation of its own genre, each destined for eternal life, yes, but a lonely and isolated existence.<br />Catherine Millet's SEXUAL LIFE has not plot, no time line, no sequencing; it is an ongoing sketch (cartoon like) of a female body being used for sexual purposes by various men at once, with the glad cooperation of the body's owner; it is a female body taking full advantage of a variety of more or less annonymous male bodies at once, with each male organ, once spent, being replaced mechanically by another of a different size, or shape, or color, or texture, or agility, to be fitted into a hand, or a mouth, or any of the other pockets available for penetration, and there to be coddled and rubbed and teased to extinction; and once extinct to be replaced by another and another, and another.<br />The narrative is a mystery because is seems purposeless. This challenges the reader to create a reason, if not for the book, at least for the reading of the book to the end; and that, sooner or later, is the real challenge of this work.<br />....	2002-09-19
US	53006845	R33RDFJOBUW6XM	0805063315	207010020	Dr. Tatiana's Sex Advice to All Creation: The Definitive Guide to the Evolutionary Biology of Sex	Books	5	34	35	N	N	A VERY Distorted Mirror. A Mirror Nonetheless.	This extraordinary book can be read at many levels: humor, sexology, general science, evolutionary biology, and it is amazingly successful in all its various layers; some of the information it imparts is so fantastic that it will strain one's sense of reality. Can a mammal be born through the clitoris of the mother? UH?? Well, YES, it can. The spotted hyena delivers its pups through her clitoris (leading to the frequent mortality of the pups or the hyena moms). Read all about it.<br />Or consider the well known fate of the male praying mantis, whose head keeps his sexual urges in check until this organ is devoured by the amorous female: the the male's sexual inhibitory mechanisms (residing in the head) are removed, and he becomes a veritable sexual athlete while in the throes of death. Adds Dr. Judson: \\"Something analogous even happens in humans: Throttle a man and like as not he'll get an erection, not from erotic pleasure in dying, but because 'Down, boy' signals from the brain stop coming.\\"<br />The variety of sexual behavior among the critters that populate planet earth is so extraordinary that after reading this book it will be unlikely that the extremely narrow band of sexual \\"deviance\\" among humans will have much of an impact on the reader. Sexual bondage? Pschaw! Consider the sagebrush cricket(Cyphoderis strepitans), who carries a gin trap with open jaws on his back. Those teeth clamp on the female's belly when she approaches the male (the female preference is to be on top) and immobilizes her so that the male can have his way, whether she wants to or not. Incest, cannibalism, rape, masturbation, homosexuality, they all flower in incredible variety among the users of this planet.<br />The book is written with scientific seriousness and literary humor. Its author has the steady hand of those who dominate their field, and at the same time she displays the joy and impudence of someone who loves the theme of sexual behavior. A good index and plenty of citationsround out the excellence of this work. This is a book to keep as a reference for those protracted arguments about sexuality in which humans so often engage.	2002-09-15
US	53006845	RBE74MPDJKS76	1882418077	166317311	All About Blue Crabs: And How to Catch Them	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Blue Delicious, by fermed	I bought this book as a result of a small argument with a friend during the last (2002) soft shell crab season in the Washington/Baltimore area; I knew that somehow the casting off the crab's hard shell by the female had some sort of reproductive significance, but I could not recall what it was, and I was soon downed in the argument when it was pointed out that both males and females shed their shells (true), and that they certainly did not mate in a state of shell-less nudity (also true.)<br />And so this little book clarified not only the mating ritual (the female mates only once in her life, in soft shell nakedness, and later perishes) but also the life cycle of these delicious critters, the catching of them, and their culinary preparation. It is a short little tract (less than 100 pages) but it is replete with facts that guarantee you'll never be downed in an argument about blue crabs. It gets a top rating because the book does not pretend to be anything it is not. Short, full of information, useful.	2002-06-09
US	53006845	R2L5IRUI45HDV4	0743225805	592016606	21 Dog Years: A Cube Dweller's Tale	Books	1	7	12	N	N	Hot Air, by fermed	I wish I could have laughed when reading this book, but I did not, for the simple reason that it is not a funny book. It is a sad book. Daisey wants to be humorous and witty and he certainly tries very hard. Trouble is people who try to be funny usually are not, and this no exception Even the title of the book reeks of inflation: three years become twenty one by making them \\"dog\\" years. Inflation is everywhere, though, because somehow the scant substance in this tract must be stretched into a book length, whether it deserves it or not; and so we hear, over and over, how the author has a useless degree in esthetics, and how the author is a lazy slacker, and after about the twelfth time of this silly self-deprecation we can no longer even smile, just frown. <br />The book lacks a clear point of view or even a purpose. It is a rambling description of a few years of having worked at Amazon's customer service department. It lacks a deep enough understanding of the Amazon operation to be able to present a good criticism of it, or even to laugh at it as an insider (which the author never was) and thus the book is reduced to describing the bumbling efforts of a highly narcissistic incompetent. Nothing is learned from the author's experience, and that is one of the reasons why the book is so unsatisfactory. <br />Apparently some of the material of this book forms the basis for a sort of one-man show that the author, Mr. Daisey, performed in tiny venues in the Seattle area. Surely a live verbal attack on Amazon, and Jeff Bezos, and the Dot Com fading culture must have been capable of gathering small audiences of disaffected adults willing to fork over some cash for the privilege of listening. At first I thought the book's failure must have derived from attempting to transpose such monologue material into a readable book, which is a difficult task. And then I though about David Sedaris and his work (\\"Me Talk Pretty One Day,\\" for example) in which he managed brilliantly to produce both a one man show and a hilarious book Perhaps it is an odious comparison to make, but a most valid one: in this book Daisey lacks the wit, humor, timing and grace that Sedaris has in overabundance in his work.<br />...	2002-06-02
US	53006845	R1AON5S1OI67JX	0802713912	992958515	The Turk: The Life and Times of the Famous Eighteenth-Century Chess-Playing Machine	Books	5	13	13	N	N	From Maria Theresa to Kasparov, by fermed	This is a delightful book that takes one cultural artifact (a mechanical chess playing machine that looks like a human being and is dressed in oriental opulence, \\"The Turk\\") and follows its entire life, from its conceptualization and manufacture to its final demise in a fire in Philadelphia. The period of the Turk's life lasted 85 years, and the people who somehow met and interacted with it were such luminaries Napoleon, and Charles Babbage (inventor of the first computer, sort of), and P. T. Barnum. Edgar Allan Poe started an entire genre (the short detective story) by writing \\"The Murders in the Rue Morgue,\\" in part inspired by the mental exercise of trying to figure out how The Turk worked. Silas Wier Mitchell, the famous American Civil War physician and neurologist, actually owned The Turk before donating it to the Chinese museum in which it finally perished. Literally hundreds of Europe's intellectuals, and crowned heads, and glitterati of one sort or another played chess against the famous automaton, and usually (but not always) lost the game. And nobody except the operators knew the secret of the machine.<br />The Turk was the work of Wolfgang Kempelen, an engineer and an aid to the Austro-Hungarian Empress Maria Theresa, who called him to court so that he could explain to her the magic and the related magnetic games that were being demonstrated by a Frenchman by the name of Pelletier in the various courts of Europe. Maria Theresa, being of a scientific mind herself, wanted a respected official to uncover the trickery (if any) involved in Pelletier's performance. Mr. Kempelen explained each act as it was being performed, and was so unimpressed by the whole show that he boasted that if he had six months of free time he would be able to construct a really impressive automaton that would outclass anything then being shown in Europe. Maria Therese took him up on the challenge, and ordered him to go home, build his marvel in six months, and forget his duties to the state during that period.<br />Six months passed and in the Spring of 1770 Mr. Kempelen arrived in court with the Turk in tow. It was a life-size wood carving of a man wearing Turkish garb, seated at a table, with only one movable arm (the left)with dexterous fingers, and with a fixed gaze that stared down at a chess board. On the night of the first demonstration, Kempelen wheeled the figure before the audience, opened the various doors of the table, showing an impressive set of elaborate and mysterious clockwork and allowing the audience to look through the various openings, shining a candle for behind, so that they would see they were either empty or full of wheels and cogs, but free of any human being. When he convinced everyone that there was nothing hiding inside the machine, Kempelen invited one of the courtiers to sit at the table and play against the Turk. He used a large key to wind it up, and when he released a lever the Turk moved his head as if scanning the board, and suddenly reached out his arm and moved a piece. The game had began! Every ten moves or so, Kempelen would wind up the mechanism again, giving it the additional energy to proceed with the game. The Turk, of course, won the match that launched his famous career. <br />The author follows this career carefully and only after the Turk's life was ended does he reveal the method used by Kempelen (and others that owned the automaton). That is fair enough, giving the book the measure of suspense it should have in order to keep the reader excited and able to create his or her theory about how the machine operated and hold it until the end of the book. <br />The book does not end with the demise of the Turk, but it extends into the realm of the Kasparov - Deep Blue matches of 1996 (Kasparov won) and 1997 (D B won). It is a thoroughly delightful book to get into, and a hard one to put down. Even after the secrets of the machine are revealed, one is left in utter amazement about the Turk and its rambunctious life.	2002-06-01
US	53006845	R3CB3E4EW7QOLN	0877794669	300284784	Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary & Thesaurus, Deluxe Audio Edition	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The Icing on the Cake, by fermed	I admit to being a dictionary freak, but never in my fondest fantasies did I think an English dictionary would appear containing precise, concise, euphonic, professional pronunciations of the vernacular as it is spoken (or supposed to be spoken) in this country. And then it showed up! Ah, such joy. English is my second language, but just barely (I learned it when I was about 4 from my Nanny, Miss Smith). Half my family spoke vedy vedy Oxford English, and the other half no English at all, so I was brought up in an absurd greenhouse full of strange verbal emissions; from there I was released into this country to learn my first swearwords and how to pronounce things entirely differently. The result is that I have many pronunciation lacunas: either because I had never heard a word before and so I had to boldly figure it out on my own, or because I just didn't have the phonemes to correctly enunciate words like \\"nurse\\" or \\"bird.\\" As a result I have often engaged in awful arguments about how certain words should be said: my version of \\"scone,\\" for example, did not rhyme with stone, and was therefore universally derided by some of my American friends as peculiar and wrong. Attempts to settle on the correct pronunciation of words by means the horrific and arcane symbols used in dictionaries was futile. <br />As soon as I installed this program I entered the word \\"scone;\\" and on the right side of the screen the word appeared in blue (meaning that the program would pronounce it); and when I clicked on it, the wonderful sound of a properly pronounced \\"scone\\" issued from the speakers. <br />Next on my list of peeves came \\"nuclear;\\" the dictionary advised me to unpeeve myself off this one, because (according to M-W) our president's \\"nukelar\\" is an accepted pronunciation \\"which has found widespread use among educated speakers, including scientists, layers, professors, congressmen, U.S. cabinet members, and at least one U.S. president....\\" Oh, my!<br />Words taken from French (asis usual with English speakers) are correctly pronounced: such as \\"hors d'oeuvre;\\" while those borrowed from the Spanish, (as is usual with English speakers) are generally mispronounced (including the two attempts at \\"rodeo\\"). Some words are not pronounced at all, at least in my copy of the book, (such as \\"umlaut\\"), and I suspect that there are a few bugs in the program that underlies the book. But for now it is honeymoon time and I am spending an inordinate amount of hours loving this CD-ROM and not wanting to perceive that there is anything wrong with it. In a few months I may have to amend this review.<br />The speakers of the words are professional actors, one male, one female, and their diction is a true joy. I highly recommend this dictionary to all residents of the US who are foreign born; and also to Southerners, Midwesterners, New Englanders, New Yorkers...well, you get the picture.	2002-05-12
US	53006845	R3WIH8NFW7WII	0805063021	310161743	Canone Inverso: A Novel	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Exotic Clockwork, by fermed	My preference in novels is for books that are realistic and mirror the society in which they take place; I like to enter the universes created by writers, with the single proviso that such places must be believable enough to totally absorb me. So I was surprised by having to give (in all fairness) this novel its five stars despite its violation of my verisimilitude requirements.<br />But in truth, this is not a novel, but a carefully crafted mechanical device composed entirely of words, intricate and at times unfathomably complex, but one that moves and has rhythms, its gears engaged, every \\"tick\\" followed by its inevitable \\"tock;\\" a machine that works and is probably extremely accurate in what it does, even though, in the end, one is not sure what it is that it does.<br />I appreciated the warnings from other reviewers that the book may need to be read twice before it is fully grasped; a violation of general principles: the writer should have one chance to engage our attention, not two. Yet Canone Inverso was surely better in its re-reading. <br />It is a short book, consumable in one sitting. Its prose is exquisite, its translation so good that one does not notice it, and its effect on the reader's mind is galvanizing. Exotic, intricate, playing with dangerous themes of good and evil, of trust and hatred, of life and death, this confection is not a toy, but a serious intrument of reflection. A joy for seekers of word pleasures.	2002-05-07
US	53006845	R2PA5VQVOEK4CQ	0810113961	320746373	Eros, Magic, and the Murder of Professor Culianu	Books	5	33	34	N	N	A True Murder Mystery, by fermed	The shot that killed professor Ioan Culianu while he was sitting in a stall in the men's room came from a small Beretta: a .25 caliber gun, fired at leat 18 inches away from his head, for there were no gunpowder traces around the entry wound. It was the work of an expert, a person who stood on the toilet seat of the adjoining stall, and fired downward and into the back of his head; probably the shot of a left hander. Why only one shot? Why such a small caliber gun? Professionals are more heavy handed, more redundant, more brutal. This was exquisitely done, with minimal fuss and no traceable clues. <br />It was May, 1991, a little after one in the afternoon, at the University of Chicago Divinity School. Prof Culianu, a handsome man in his 40's had three books in press, was about to get married, was loved and respected by students and faculty, and was at the peak of his profession as a historian of religion. His work was recognized internationally, and he could look forward to the honors and comforts of a successful academic career.<br />Ted Anton presents the true tale of Prof. Culianu with deftness and care. It is a story that to this day continues to reverberate in academia and law enforcement because it has never been solved. Far more exciting than fiction, the story of this professor takes turns and dips that keep the reader on edge and breathless.Culianu was an expert not only on the traditional aspects of religions, but had an interest in the occult arts that formed part of the ancient rituals and practices. He was an expert in divination through geomancy, and was about to teach a course in this practice. He gravitated towards the occult. He knew about near death experiences and about the transmigration of souls; and at the same time he maintained his status as a legitimate scholar and teacher in one of America's prestigious universities. <br />Fictional stories about crimes and police work are very enjoyable, but reading a book like this renders the others insignificant by comparison. Of course truth is stranger than fiction, but it is also more exciting, more interesting, and finally...more scary.	2002-05-01
US	53006845	R3GN2753ZYW7EC	1588513238	896666532	Sun and Shade	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Sun and Shade and Pain from Spain, by fermed	The book is set as a family story against the background of Spain and its various wars -- Spanish-American (Cuba), North African (Morocco), and the Spanish civil war. Its grandiose and panoramic ambitions are not fulfilled, in part because the author does not dominate her material and as a consequence the action and the characters lack depth and are often caricatures. There is a lack of plain credibility in most of the themes touched by this novel, be they war, combat, politics, fist-fights, bullfighting or human nature. The men are drawn more riddled in gender cliches than are the women, but in any event the relations and the conjugation of the sexes are informed more by fantasy than by knowledge of human psychology. <br />The politics of the novel are presented in a sketchy and imprecise manner that suggest these are areas outside the domain of the author. Anarchism is praised, and the left is made up of the good guys, while the right and the Church is were all of the baddies hide. This is not the first novel to present such an equation, but this one is particularly unconvincing. One would expect that a novel with these pretensions would at least spell Franco's full name correctly (Francisco Franco Bahamonde)since he was the chief of the baddies; the one reference to the theoretician of anarchism, Bakunin, appears with his name spelled incongruously in French. All this plus a greater than average number of typos and errors in the text makes for minor but pervasive irritants, something which novels should avoid at all costs.<br />The relationships between the various characters are at best prickly and full of misunderstandings, so that nothing flows smoothly. One perceives the author writing herself into corners that she can escape only through artifices: nothing proceeds easily and the main actors are so burneded by the characterological defects from which they suffer, that they never truly become alive, endearing or believable. Part of the problem is that they are all Spaniards, and as such the author would like us to believe that they are subject to profound and irrational quirks, passions, angers, and assorted irrationalities that are quite incomprehensible to outsiders.<br />The author uses an omniscient point of view for the narrative, and does not render the action to allow the reader to absorb the material subtly or indirectly. The novel ends ambiguously, leaving many threads untied. It is as if the author had said \\"Enough, already!\\" and had brought the book to a quick and irresolute ending. The novel by turns attempts to be an historical narrative, a romance, a political tract, and an anthropological study of Southern Spain, but it is none of those things truly; instead it seems frequently out of focus and at times out of control. Its ending was welcome.	2002-04-24
US	53006845	R2D0QLJ0CGARZM	0375719687	737326368	Random House Webster's Quotationary	Books	5	25	25	N	N	A Treasure, by fermed	I have several quotation reference books, but this is the one that sits on my desk because it is by far my favorite. It contains a good mixture of recent, old, and ancient sayings, organized by themes. Many quotations are cross-referenced by theme, and others by similarity of structure (\\"Nothing succeeds like success,\\" by Dumas, leads to \\"Nothing succeeds like excess\\" by Wilde.) There are over 20,000 quotes, meticulously referenced and often containing rich ancillary material. For instance, the famous \\"I'll have what she is having\\" is cited under the general theme of \\"Sex;\\" it notes that the author was Nora Ephron (1941--) in the film \\"When Sally Met Harry,\\" 1989. Said by a woman diner to the waiter after observing Meg Ryan, at another table, acting out an orgasm.<br />While surfing the book I came across this quotation by Henry Kissinger, on the occasion of Nixon's nomination for president in 1968: \\"This man, of course, is a disaster. Now the Republican Party is a disaster. Fortunately, he can't be elected--or the whole country would be a disaster area.\\" And this by Nixon, used frequently in reference to Kissinger: \\"My Jew boy,\\" cited in Isaacson's \\"Kissinger: A Biography,\\" 1992.<br />I'm sorry that not a single citation by Borges made the cut. At least his marvelous characterization of England and Argentina after the Falkland's war should have made it: \\"It was a fight of two bald men over a comb.\\" The book also has its irritants: it contains no index of first words or fist lines. Thus, if one wants to know who said \\"Play it again, Sam,\\" there is no easy way of finding out that NOBODY in Casablanca uttered those words. To find out, one must know that Casablance was written by Julius Epstein, look him up in the index, and there on page 530 you will see that it was Ilse (Ingrid Bergman) who said \\"Play it, Sam. Play \\"As Time Goes By.\\" Finally, there is the irritant of the page numbers: instead of being centered (top or bottom) or on the outer margins of the pages, thenumbers were placed in the inner margins, so that one cannot do a quick flicking of pages to find what we are looking for, but rather the book must be opened entirely to see then hidden page numbers near the center fold. <br />Still: the paperback edition of this thick volume is sturdy and will likely withstand rugged use. For under twenty bucks, it is a highly recommended bargain, and a useful reference book.	2002-04-04
US	53006845	R2MO8F2D3JNHVS	157322197X	926203739	The Good Men	Books	2	22	34	N	N	Flawed and Twisted: A Travesty of History, by fermed	This is a first novel by a young writer, and my bias would greatly favor her efforts, but I cannot endorse this type of distortion of truth in the name of \\"historical fiction.\\" I do not mind the use of fictionalized historical characters, but the rules of decency (and of common sense) suggest that when such characters are used, they must be depicted as realistically as possible, using imagination and the writers creativity only to fill in, to adorn, or to make more \\"real\\" what is known about, say, Jesus, or Van Gogh, or Hannibal. But in this case the author engages in a wholesale plunder of a historical, published work, (MONTAILLOU, by E. L. Ladurie, translated by Barbara Bray), from where she borrows not only the main events described in the novel but even the names of the characters. The book MONTAILLOU is based on the translation of the Inquisition notes and records prepared by Jacques Fournier, who eventually became Pope Benedict XII. <br />It is this taking of identifiable people from the historical record and plopping them into a novel that I find so objectionable. There was indeed a woman named Fabrisse Rives who had a daughter Grazide, but there is no comparison between the Fabrisse and Gracide of the Inquisition records, and the romanticized and distorted Fabrisse and Gracida of the book. It seems only fair that if one is to use real people as the inspiration for fiction, to at least change their names. Having read MONTAILLOU and met the real Fabrisse and the real Gracide in its pages, it was downright obnoxious to have to put up with, and read about, what this writer does to these characters.<br />It is true that THE GOOD MEN gives credit to the book MONTAILLOU in its acknowledgements (by saying that the work was a \\"source of much clarity for me\\"). It also credits a half a dozen other books, and many people, for help in the preparation of the novel. I am not implying that the author failed to give due credit for the sources of this novel. But I do not believe it is right to take real people and transmogrify them under the guise of novelistic inspiration. In fact, the novel is not an enhancement of the reality of medieval life in a small town in Occitan, but rather a pale and defective rendition of that reality.<br />Even though the book is subtitled \\"A Novel of Heresy,\\" the actual depiction of the Albigensian (Cathar) heresy is trite and superficial, and does not have the structural strength to support the novelistic edifice that the author tries to build upon it. One is never exposed in this book to the deep passion that just have existed in the peasant who would discard their Christian faith and risk violent executions for a strange and heretical view of the universe; nor is there a proper explanation of the tenets of the Cathar faith which would eventually suffer a bloody extirpation from Christianity.<br />In summary, I was a bit offended by the silliness of taking raw and powerful history and turning it into a novelistic exercise of dubious value.	2002-04-03
US	53006845	R10FY3CBVPPWX1	0895261650	769863057	Shakedown: Exposing The Real Jesse Jackson	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Scandalous Scoundrel, by fermed	This book about the Reverend Jackson will cause the reader to experience a wide palette of emotional colors, none of them pleasurable. Yet the book should be read, for only when people know about this man will his capacity for badness be reduced or perhaps eliminated entirely. This book is a detailed and carefully documented portrait of evil, of deceit, of greed, of treason, of lies, of lawlessness, of cheating, of curruption, of theft, of hustling, of sexual infidelities, and of gang violence, to mention a few of the varieties of contemptible behavior that are illustrated. It has a certain hypnotic attraction, and thus one keeps reading even after the picture of this master deceiver is clear enough. As the subtitle promises, the book exposes the real Jesse Jackson, and his portrait leaves one with only one question: How has this fellow managed to stay out of prison?<br />Fortunately, some of the Blacks that Mr. Jesse thinks he is leading are in rebellion against his amoral behavior. The book cites the efforts of Jesse Lee Peterson, who for the last few years has organized an \\"Annual Day of Repudiation of Jesse Jackson\\" among African-Americans. It is celebrated on Martin Luther King Jr.'s birthday. One can only hope that the movement takes off and succedes spectacularly.	2002-04-03
US	53006845	R3LACYGNQNOJFI	0964873613	885007648	Malaga Burning: An American Woman's Eyewitness Account of the Spanish Civil War	Books	4	3	4	N	N	For Spanish Civil War Buffs, by fermed	This is a strange book: it is a gentle and lyrical work of a poet on the subject of one of the bloodiest episodes in Spanish history, a history notorious for its violence. It is a book a people capable of great kindness and of gentle behavior; but it is also about the hinted violence and horror produced by a folk seeped in a history of brutality who turn upon each other.<br />The Spanish Civil War, from abroad, still resonates with the romanticism and the dashing braveness of foreigners is Spain; strangers of all types played in this Spanish sandbox of blood and terror. The literature that emerged from the war was perforce partisan, Manichean, judgmental. This little book by Gamel Woolsey made its appearance in 1939 under the title of DEATH'S OTHER KINGDOM, and promptly vanished from sight in the shadow of Orwell's HOMAGE TO CATALONIA and the turbulence that preceded WWII. Now it has been published again under this new title, and rightly so, for it is a delicate and non-partisan narrative, such as only a poet would produce. Those who have very strong opinions about the war and its players will at first be disappointed by the book's apparent blandness (at least I was); but after a day or two, the true horrors that are only hinted in the book will dominate one's consciousness and perhaps illuminate more clearly the nature of the conflict.<br />There are a few objectionable efforts at translation, unaccetable in these days of easy information: the ancient Castillian song \\"Esta si es siega de vida\\" (\\"This, now, is the reaping of life...\\" is translated as \\"This, this is the sowing of life...\\" rather entirely changing the meaning and making the poem pointless. An additional linguistic failure is in the mention of the peculiar Spanish verb used to denote that someone is wearing new clothes for the first time: \\"estrenar\\" which appears in the book as \\"estreñar\\" (meaningless but perilously close to \\"estreñir,\\" which means \\"to constipate\\").<br />Despite those minor faults, this is a haunting book that stays with you, and certainly an obligatory read for Spanish Civil War aficionados, of which there are surprisingly many in this country.	2002-03-27
US	53006845	R19KTRSIB02OPD	0738203858	192029347	Mad In America: Bad Science, Bad Medicine, And The Enduring Mistreatment Of The Mentally Ill	Books	5	12	20	N	N	A Dangerous Book, by fermed	Certainly the book is important, but it is also dangerous in the sense that its underlying philosophy is so thoroughly nihilistic about the drug treatment of schizophrenia (the only effective treatment against it) that some who read it will condemn themselves to the unnecessary and dangerous experience of enduring an untreated schizophrenic life. This book may provide some people with the enabling tool to reject the use of medications, and they will suffer incredibly as a result.<br />I have no quarrel with the premise that mental patients have traditionally been mistreated and abused, not only in this country but everywhere. Nor can one argue with the shameful history of the horrors that were applied to psychotics in the guise of \\"curing\\" them. But the fact is that since the advent of antipsychotic medications whole types of schizophrenic symptoms have vanished, including those associated with the absolutely worse manifestation of this disease, the so calle \\"hebephrenic schizophrenia.\\" Nor does one often see catatonic patients in the back wards any more. In fact most back wards are gone.<br />The book focuses on the worst possible aspects of mental health abuses, including an extensive review of the work of criminal psychiatrists (who were imprisoned), of incompetent ones (who lost their license), and the greed of drug companies. It attempts to compare the outcome of psychoses in this country with the outcomes of India, Nigeria and Colombia, favoring those Third World countries. Surely these are the erroneous conclusions from politicized research. The conclusions are screechingly unfavorable to the drug treatments received by schizophrenics in this country; and yet, after the deep debunking of the mental health system here, the book offers no alternatives. One can only surmise that patients reading this book will choose equally nihilistic (and self destructive) solutions for themselves.<br />I think the author has put a great deal of work and effort into this book,and I think the book should be widely read. Yes, the system can and should be improved in this country; but no, the answer is not the abandonment of a pharmacy that allows millions of people to live relatively normal and productive lives in freedom rather than being imprisoned in mental hospitals. The five star rating of this book is based on the importance it can have as a tool for improving the mental health care of Americans, even if the picture it presents is dangerously distorted; but like all tools, especially sharp ones, this one can be misused and hurt the unwary.	2002-03-27
US	53006845	R8LXOTG9JHO4M	1891620754	963615499	Gracefully Insane: The Rise and Fall of America's Premier Mental Hospital	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A biography of place and profession, by fermed	Alex Beam is an admirable writer: it would have been so easy to go wrong with this book, for matters dealing with madness lend themselves to comedy and foolishness, and matters having to do with the very rich can lead to invidious destructiveness. To keep a steady hand and guide the reader in a light but deeply knowledgeable manner through a book of this nature is a remarkable feat of self control and of wisdom by this remarkable author, a novelist, and a columnist for the Boston Globe.<br />The book contains two separate and entirely independent histories: a biography of McLean as a place, with its architecture, land usage, and management, reflecting the fundamental (and changing) social values over time, and a history of institutional psychiatry in the 19th and 20th century America, also reflecting the evolution of various schools of thought about the nature and management of madness. The two histories are tied together by the fact that the architecture and the psychiatry were joined to serve the needs of the very rich, first from the Boston area and later from the nation. In time, privilege dwindled as the rise of egalitarianism succeded in eroding its external manifestations, not just in McLean Hospital but in society as a whole; and the book shows how in the end the glorious splendor that the hospital had possessed was lost; when the indulgence in eccentricity (by both patients and staff) gave way under social and financial pressures to corporate direction and the rules of insurance companies and Medicare, and not the rules of graciousness that derived from unlimited wealth.<br />The index contains a roster of notable writers, such as Robert Lowell, Ann Sexton, Sylvia Plath and the more recent Susanna Kaysen (of \\"Girl, interrupted\\" fame), but the book is not so much about famous people, as it is about \\"the best that money could buy\\" in terms of mental health treatment, and how \\"the best\\" amounted to simple kindness and consideration, enlarged and fueled by unending funds. Twice, in the 1960's, the hospital underwent a rash of suicides by patients, and both times it followed institutional changes designed to streamline the management of patients rather than to meet their needs; the hospital did follow the fashions of psychiatry, including the various forms of shock treatment, but sparing the patients the profusion of frontal lobotomies that were carried out in other places when that little operation was fashionable. In the end it was the drug treatments that became victorious, both in McLean and in the rest of the mental health institutions, and these treatments preceded the final demise of McLean's glory: for it stood on land that could not longer be reserved for the amusement and benefit of the rich, land which had to yield to urban pressures. Nor would the staffing patterns remain, for in time there was a proliferation of the mental health troops (social worker, psychologists, therapists of one stripe or another) needed for the short term, in-and-out, treatment demanded by insurance companies. <br />The book is well indexed, contains many notes and references, and is obviously a work of love. The book itself conveys the quality of grace that McLean once possessed, with a subdued cover, fine quality stock, and good typography. It is the type of book that may have sat quietly near a silver tea set at one of the cottages, to be read at leisure; but the cottages were torn down, and the silver sets were auctioned off a long time ago; still, the book remains, and remembers.	2002-03-26
US	53006845	R3DYJCNAREETUI	093266475X	840212076	Pleasures of the Canary Islands: Wine, Food, Beauty, Mystery	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Small, Intimate Guide, by fermed	This is the type of travel book that used to be written by Victorian gentlemen about the exotic places they found as soon as they stepped outside England. It feels more like a long letter from a dear friend than a short guide book; and even though it is 10 years old (published in 1992)it is a wonderful companion to have if you are to visit these islands. It complements well the second edition of \\"Canary Islands\\" published by Lonely Planet, which I have also reviewed.<br />Its point of view is that the traveler should gain and explore the natural pleasures of the islands, in food, in wine, in scenery, in its inhabitants, and in the sheer joy of being there. Ann and Larry Walker run a restaurant in California (or did when they wrote this book) and they cannot shake the laid-back bonhomie that marks people with such a background. Of course, importing laid-back anything to the Canaries is like taking the proverbial coals to Newcastle, for this is the land of the slow, of the meditative, of the \\"aplatanado,\\" a wonderful word that can be translated as \\"bananified,\\" but which means to convey the state of being exquisitely beyond the reach of pressures of any kind.<br />The Canaries consists of 7 inhabited islands, close to the coast of North Africa, and the book takes them one by one, in the order in which they were conquered by Spain. Because each island is so distinctly different from the others, each must be addresses separately. The Walkers write delightful essays about each, telling you where to stay, where to eat and what to do. They hold your hand, as it were, and urge you to look at the night sky in La Palma, or to dip the local fish into the mojo sauces that arrived at your table on the island of Hierro. These are wonderful companions with which to course over all the seven islands.<br />The book, little as it is, has some spectacular pictures taken by the authors, a section containing local recipes, and fine discussions about the island wines. Can't ask for muchmore in so small a package.	2002-02-19
US	53006845	R34ZZT2NHA6P0C	0385500521	288543952	Carnage and Culture: Landmark Battles in the Rise of Western Power	Books	5	1	1	N	N	History for Non-Historians, by fermed	The thesis of this book is that Western civilization has interwoven into its cultural fabric some fundamental concepts of warfare that make the West invincible (in the long run) when in war against armies from other cultures, and extraordinary deadly when Western armies fight one another. The theory is that the seeds for this deadly culture of warfare can be found in the political organization of armies, starting with the assimilation of democratic ideals in the selection of generals and other leaders in Greece combined with the extreme discipline and organizational genius of the Romans; and above all in the near constant infusion of science and technology into the process of warfare that has led, over the centuries and up to the present, to a refinement of weapons and to the continual renewal of the techniques of war. The notion that the enemy should be obliterated by any means is central to Western warfare.<br />Not being a historian, I was surprised and delighted by the concepts and ideas that are presented in each of the nine critical battles that constitute the core of this book. It isn't that I don't know history at all, but I have never been lead by the hand and told of a battle \\"Here, look at this...\\" For instance, I was aware of Cortez and of his defeat of the Aztec empire with just a handful of men and horses, aware that the Mexica expected God-like creatures to come from the East as was prophesied, aware that the natives thought that men on horses were a single unit, etc. But that had little to do with why a few Spaniards won Tenochtitlan, the island city of the Aztecs. By the time they had lived among the natives for a few months, the notion that these were Gods had pretty well vanished: horses were seen as huge deer, and the Spaniards, who ate, defecated and mated just like the natives, had lost their divine glamor; and so when the natives drove them from their city on La Noche Triste (Melancholy Night), with a wounded Cortez, decimated troops, lost cannon and armaments, the Aztecs claimed victory but did not pursue them to extinction, which they could easily have done. It was not their habit to vanquish the enemy, but rather to capture and bind them and sacrifice them to their Gods. They did not follow through with their victory. Cortez, on the other hand, immediately started plotting a victorious return.<br />He found that the land that surrounded lake Texcoco was rich in minerals and chemicals needed for warfare; that enemies of the hated Aztecs would became willing partners in providing him help. Native metal smiths were given Spanish designs and crafted 100,000 copper arrowheads for their bows, and 50,000 metal bolts for the their crossbows; they obtained sulfur for gunpowder from the nearby Popocatepetl by lowering workers on ropes into the vocano's sides and scraping the chemical. Cortez ordered 13 prefabricated, shallow draft brigantines to be constructed in Veracruz. This fleet was dismantled for transportation across land, and reassembled at specially constructed canals on the shores of lake Texcoco. It took Cortez and his allies 13 months of frantic labor to do all that had to be done to conquer Tenochtitlan by land (over the causeways) and by water, and when he struck his blows not much was left of the Aztec capital. The slaughter was horrific, and afterwards there was no Aztec empire left. The traditions of the West, including great discipline, leadership, superior technology, adaptive tactics, and ruthlessness had prevailed once more. <br />The battles described in this book (brilliantly descibed!) are Salamis, Gaugamela, Cannae, Poitiers, Tenochtitlan, Lepanto, Rorke's Drift, Midway and Tet, covering a period from 480 BC to 1968. The prose and the narrative style are exciting and thus the book is hard to turn loose. I am sure historians will argue much about this work and its theoretical underpinnings; but as a non-historian I was delighted by the book, and so I recommend it to general readers withat least a smattering of history and a great deal of love for good prose.	2002-02-18
US	53006845	R1NSI3PXM5J1X0	006029809X	517650990	The Trouble Begins: A Box of Unfortunate Events, Books 1-3 (The Bad Beginning; The Reptile Room; The Wide Window)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	The Uses of Evil, by fermed	This is quite an extraordinary children's series, both in its content and in its form; and like most extraordinary things it requires some explanation to be fully appreciated. Having read the previous reviews, I wonder if the negative ones would have been a little kinder to the books if the reviewers had grasped the underlying structures that drive these writings, and see that these are books of humor and that their subject matter is the salvation of children from the obsessive stupidity, the greed, and the cruelty with which they are often treated by adults. They are stories that laugh at the impermanency of both good and evil, and that hold in high esteem the cleverness and resourcefulness of children.<br />The author (Daniel Handler, here with the 'nom de plume' \\"Lemony Snicket\\") has managed to sterilize his writing so that it is entirely denuded of emotionality and sentimentality; this is a clever move that allows him to touch the most horrendous and evil themes without flinching or turning the reader off. When the three Baudelaire children are informed that both parents have died and their home burned to the ground, it is done by Mr. Poe, a bumbling bank offical who is now their guardian and the trustee of their parent's vast fortune. After telling them that both parents perished in the fire he adds \\"perish means 'killed.'\\" The children don't fall apart, but rather hold hands and walk off the beach with Mr. Poe, ready to engage in the \\"Bad Beginning\\" which is the title of the first book.<br />Lemony Snicket's prose is dry and simple, and he uses and elaborates some of the writing techniques that were abandoned a hundred years ago with the decline of Victorian prose: he, the author, is constantly intruding himself into the narrative, directly addressing the reader with advice, comments, and even prophetic remarks about how the story line will evolve.For example, a few pages previously he has announced that Uncle Monty, a wonderful and kind person, will soon die.Now Lemony comments (to the reader): \\"For no matter how safe and happy the three children felt, no matter how comforting Uncle Monty's words were, you and I know that soon Uncle Monty will be dead and the Baudeliares will be miserable once again.\\" It is by means of these techniques that the author can get away with what he writes about (brutal cruelty, pointless horrors) without being brutally cruel or subjecting his young readers to pointless horrors. But, and this is a large but: the young reader must be intelligent enough to transcend the prose and see the unreality and the humor of what is being presented. More than novels, these book suggest to me an elaborate Punch and Judy show conducted by a genial man who can have the figures commit all sorts of mayhem upon each other, while the young children in the audience don't think for a moment that Punch or Judy are \\"real;\\" they just go along with the pretense and enjoy the show. In fact, they could not enjoy themselves if the figures really were alive. This author makes no pretense of realism in his writing, and therefore the mayhem he creates is ultimately funny.<br />Snicket certainly warns the reader: \\"I'm sorry to say the book you are holding in your hands is extremely unpleasant;\\" or \\"If you have picked up this book with the hope of finding a simple and cheery tale, I'm afraid you've picked up the wrong book altogether;\\" or \\"All the stories about these three children are unhappy and wretched, and the one you are holding may be the worst one of all.\\" Those are parts of each of the three notices that appear in the back cover of each volume. No deception here. Be forewarned. <br />I can see where some parents would think of the books as designed to undermine adult authority, and would believe them to be subversive if not downright seditious. But I can't fathom intelligent children being hurt by these books, or their self discipline in any way being lessened by them; on the contrary, I believe it will make them wiser (and perhaps better) people. Highly recommended for normal children with a sense of humor, and for the parents who raised them.	2002-01-06
US	53006845	R23D3EJZ5SZ2S1	0618116036	704841293	The Way We Talk Now	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Clearing Your Throat Before You Talk, by fermed	I can think of few people who would not benefit from a short marination --or a long one-- in this book. It is because most of my friends are talker and thinkers, and this book is so wide ranging that it is bound to benefit those who take pride in, or pay attention to, what they utter. Marinade: \\"a savory usu. acidic sauce in which meat, fish or a vegetable is soaked to enrich its flavor or to tenderize it.\\" Acidic, even acerbic, characterizes the book; and acid often sharpens our thoughts. For example, most of us laughed at (and decried) the actions of the mayor of Washington, Anthony Williams, when he fired a white aid who had characterized the city's budget as being \\"niggardly.\\" We laughed at the sheer ignorance of those who would take issue with a racially neutral word that simply means \\"stingy.\\" We looked up the etymology of the word and found that it has Swedish ancestry and nothing to do with the \\"n\\" word, or the Niger river, or the color black. But wait: surely the word contains offensive sounds to which black Americans are entitled to react. The book calls these sounds \\"echoes of its homonyms,\\" a felicitous expression; and then the rule: Phonetics always trumps etymology. Whose rule? Nunberg's, of course, who adds: \\"We all learned that when we were six as we discovered the scatological pleasure there would be in pronouncing an innocent word like \\"shampoo.\\"<br />Quickly, without looking it up: the difference between \\"masterly\\" and \\"masterful.\\" Quickly, without looking it up, clarify the usage of \\"on behalf of\\" and \\"in behalf of.\\" Parlor games or lexicography? This is a book rich in more ways than I can count. It makes you think, and perhaps makes you think before you talk. Such a blessing! And if not for you, it will please one of your talkative buddies, for sure.	2001-12-30
US	53006845	R28DYKM6EZ2GE0	089577951X	614108511	Illustrated Reverse Dictionary	Books	3	10	10	N	N	A Wonderful Book to Own...but, by fermed	I love to pick up this \\"reverse dictionary\\" and just browse it, something that I do frequently since it sits within reach, at my desk. It is without any doubt a rich and fabulous source of general knowledge, of trivia and of words. If you are at a temporaty loss about whether it is the \\"stamen\\" or the \\"stigma\\" of a flower, you might resolve your confusion with this book. I say you \\"might\\" advisedly, because the book is infuriating in its lack of correspondence between its list of words and those found in many of the lush and wonderful illustrations it contains. If you look up stigma, you will find no entry by that name; if you try \\"stamen\\" you will find only \\"stamens\\" with a cryptic \\"of a flower ANDROECIUM.\\" Of course, there is no entry for \\"androecium.\\" But if you persist and have the instinct of a dowser you will, sooner or later, come across a picture of a flower, in full color, with all of its parts neatly labeled, including the stamen and the stigma. <br />This is a tricky book, capable of giving you fits. It rates only three stars because its riches are very difficult to get to, so that it is an impractical book from which to extract specific information when you need it. I recently tried to remember \\"alb,\\" and I approached it by looking at vestment, priest, miter, even Pope, but I could find nothing until (by chance) I found a picture of \\"Papal Vestments.\\" In these days of computer ease there is no reason why the book should not contain a list including every single word that appears in the book and the page on which it is found. It is disgraceful that this one does not. But...did I tell you that I love this book?	2001-12-24
US	53006845	R2S5QCA94CHGBZ	0140254587	694403107	Salvation on Sand Mountain: Snake-Handling and Redemption in Southern Appalachia	Books	4	9	11	N	N	True Believers, by fermed	There is something compelling about the notion of checking one's faith in Jesus against the reality of being bitten by a snake or being killed by strychnine. Something compelling and very American, too. Put up or shut up. Don't just talk the talk, walk the walk. Such concepts are thoroughly ingrained into the American soul, especially the soul of the South.<br />What, after all, could be more explicit than the signs of being a true believer than those set forth by Jesus himself: \\"In my name they shall cast out devils, they shall speak with new tongues; they shall take up serpents; and if they drink any deadly thing, it shall not hurt them.\\" Such was his last message, according to Mark, before ascending to heaven, and why should it not be taken literally? Neither serpents nor poisons can hurt a true believer in Jesus, so that if a snake bites you or drinking strychnine does you in, the failure was of your faith, not a shortcoming of Biblical interpretation: there is nothing here to interpret, after all.<br />I found this book extraordinary powerful and moving. Dennis Covington, who rose from humble beginnings to the sophistication of being a New York Times writer, returns to the deep South to study and write about the phenomenon of these small, isolated churches that practice snake handling, speaking in tongues, and drinking strychnine laced cool-aid at their services. He takes the reader through an extraordinary trip, a trip made possible by the author's absolute genuineness and respect for his subject matter. It would have been so easy to mock these practitioners; but instead he makes us understand them. It takes decency and an unbending honesty to write a book like Covington's. In the end the reader (at least this one) feels that, under the right circumstances of faith and the hypnotic union with others in the congregation, grasping a snake and handling it might be exactly the right thing to do. <br />I hope this book never goes out of print, for it reflects deepAmericana, the sort that gains value and intensity with the passage of time. Not very many will ever read this book, but it should be there for those who seek an understanding of this aspect of our reality.	2001-12-24
US	53006845	R2ANXEDRGXTMUU	0609609475	7872250	Let a Simile Be Your Umbrella	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Box Full of Joy! by fermed	Ah, yes! Chocolate truffles, maybe. With each that you consume there is an intense pleasure followed by the realization that one less truffle remains in the box. I got the same feeling as I read through this book. It contains 229 (or maybe 230 if I miscounted) little essays, some no more than a paragraph or so long, others extending several pages, followed occasionally by commentaries from readers of the \\"On Language\\" colums with which Safire has been regaling the nation since 1979. <br />The essays are arranged alphabetically by title, and not by date of publication (in fact the publication dates are nowhere to be seen) which makes the mixture all the more appealing. Thus the first one (\\"Adultery and Fraternization\\") is no closer chronologically to us than the last (\\"On Zeenes and Mags\\"). At least I don't think it is.<br />The title of the book derives from a column by the same name, which starts by analyzing \\"anomaly,\\" checks in on the difference between \\"arcane\\" and \\"archaic,\\" touches on \\"plunk,\\" and finally tells us about Sen. Faircloth's colorful similes: \\"like eating ice cream with a knitting needle,\\" \\"like skinning a hippopotamus with a letter opener,\\" and \\"like teaching a kangaroo to do the limbo.\\"<br />The comments made by his readers can be both profound and hilarious. Following a essay on Fowler's two revisions (of all things), F. J. Ortner took exception: \\"You stated that \\"tergiversation\\" comes from the Latin for \\"turning back.\\" I think that should have been \\"turning the back.\\" The word comes from \\"tergum,\\" the back, and \\"versare\\" or \\"vertere,\\" to turn. \\"Tourner le dos\\" instead of \\"reculer.\\" Oh, my!<br />Following an essay on words and phrases used to describe nutsiness and madness, Nina Garfinkel of New York, pointed out a couple of expressions which Safire included in the book, and which I have appropriated for my own use: \\"He's out there where the buses don't run,\\" and \\"the cheese fell of his cracker a long time ago.\\"<br />This is a wonderful book togive to anyone with a love for words and thoughts and knowledge and humor. It is full of extraordinary flavors and textures, it is funny and serious, and a grand entertainment.	2001-12-21
US	53006845	R34WZRX6LU8X1V	1565547608	531675344	Los Isleños Cookbook: Canary Island Recipes	Books	4	11	12	N	N	A Mild Deception but a Fair Cookbook, by fermed	I came across this book while browsing Amazon[.com], and it amazed me that there could be a 426 page book devoted to the recipes of the Canaries. The Canaries: beautiful islands off the Atlantic coast of North Africa, impeccable weather, incredible beaches, fantastic people, on and on I could sing the wonders of these islands; but the one thing I could never say is that they have a native cuisine. You eat very well there, of course, but the food is either prepared in the Spanish or the Continental manner. There are a few \\"ways of doing things\\" that are typical of the islans, such as cooking \\"wrinkled potatos\\" (small potatoes cooked in their skin, which wrinkle) and certainly there are a variety of \\"mojo\\" sauces into which you dip your morsels of meat or fish.But a cuisine? There is no native cuisine.<br />So this book, subtitled \\"Canary Island Recipes\\" is mildly deceptive; but have heart. The book itself is very fine and I am glad I got it. After all, some day I may be given some meat from the tail of an alligator, and I will immediately consult the book for the Swedish Alligator Meatballs recipe and go to work. But please note that the closest alligator to the Canaries is probably more than 4,000 miles away.<br />Very well, people from the Canary Islands settled in Louisiana in the 1770's, and eventually they and their descendants populated the Parish of St. Bernard. In recent years Los Isle&ntilde;os Heritage and Cultural Society of St. Bernard has flourished, made contact with the Canary Islands, and in general blossomed forth with great pride in their distant origins. I suspect that dozens, if not hundreds of residents took on the project of creating a cookbook for sale that would bring some cash with which to fund their cultural projects, and thus this book. The editor states in the introduction: \\"While the title [of this book] may be misleading, it was not intended to be.\\" Well, OK. There are 800 or so recipes here, and many, perhaps the majority, are unprofessional. The ingredients, more often than not, include frozen, canned, packaged, dehydrated, or otherwise abused food stuff. Exacly what your granny uses, don't kid yourself. I would be remiss if I didn't include a typical recipe from the book (this one contributed by Genelle Armstrong).<br />YUMMY POTATOES<br />2 lb bag of frozen hash brown potatoes<br />16 oz sour cream<br />1 can cream of chicken or mushroom soup<br />1/2 cup butter<br />1/2 cup onions, chopped fine<br />2 cups cheddar cheese, grated<br />salt & pepper to taste<br />2 cups cracker crumbs, crushed<br />1 stick butter, melted<br />Mix first 7 ingredients and spoon into a greased 9 x 13 inch baking dish. Bake at 350 until bubbly, then top with cracker crumbs and butter. Return to oven and bake until topping is crispy.<br />Surely a pre-coronary repast using mainly off the shelf ingredients. This is a people's cookbook, one from (if not for) the heart, as rich and varied as the great state of Louisiana. It has little to do with Canary Island cooking. Count your blessings and enjoy the book.	2001-12-21
US	53006845	R1GOGJZTXHNDUJ	1864503106	754283224	Lonely Planet Canary Islands	Books	5	2	4	N	N	The Best Guide to the Islands, by fermed	Damien Simonis wrote the first edition of the Lonely Planet's gide to the Canaries, and an excellent companion to the islands it was; now (May, 2001) Lonely Planet has issued the second edition of this work, and I am delighted to say that it is just as good (but more up to date) than the first version. Simonis was joined by Miles Roddis to prepare the current book, which follows essentially the same plan as the first guide, and which conserves intact much of the original writing about the islands. The current version displays and entirely new set of photographs by Simonis, who seems to have improved his camera work in the intervening years since he first published the guide.<br />The book is amazingly fruitful for its relative compact size and number of pages (271): it provides brief but essential information about the history of the islands, its dogs, its Canary birds, people, plants, transportation, medical services, its gay life, the island sports, and the means of getting there. It accurately describes each of the seven islands, and managest to convey the major and the subtle differences between them -- and those differences can be huge: from the dry Saharan landscapes of Lanzarote and Fuerteventura, to the verdant La Palma, to the scraggly beauty of Hierro. The Pico de Teide, on the island of Tenerife, is the 3rd largest volcano on earth (after Mauna Loa and Mauna Kea, in Hawaii)and rises from the sea to over 12 thousand feet. Its peak is covered with snow most of the year, but at sea level the islands have superb weather. <br />For those about to visit the Canaries, a Lonely Planet guide to them is essential. I don't think it is necessary to buy the second edition if one already owns the first: there are no dramatic changes between the books, and with a little flexibility the traveler will find the first edition just as useful as the second one. The travel tips are pricesless in both books and they will surely enhance the pleasure of visiting this strange andbeautiful corner of the world. Don't leave without a copy.	2001-12-16
US	53006845	RH9PFVCMHGDAG	0553527320	403168550	Fierce Invalids Home from Hot Climates: A Novel	Books	2	5	10	N	N	Wasted Talent, Puerile Book, by fermed	This is a heavy handed attempt at being funny, and like most enterprises of such type, it fails. The author surely has an extraordinary talent, but it shows only occasionally (and fleetingly) in this book. What hits the reader--listener in this case--is the huge lack of discipline that underlies this novel. Without discipline there can be no art, no creativity, no music or architecture or painting or sculpture; and this is a monument to the lack of discipline.<br />The book is populated by a variety of characters, most of whom seem plucked from a warehouse for discarded cliches: the lusting nun, the magical primitive, the pompous Britisher in a jungle setting, the slimmy lawyer, the spunky grandma, the titillating teenager, the drunk-talented-charming protagonist, the Pope. It is replete with half-baked philosophical pirouetting, with Marx Brothers and Three Stooges slapstick, and more insufferable ploys.<br />The book is twice as long as it should be. Its attempts at cleverness, like its attempts at humor, fail more often than not. Shock for the sake of shock has no shock value. Are the major publishing houses bereft of editors? Is there no one left with the authority to sit Mr. Robbins down and force him to re-write until he gets his story straight and drops all the nonsense? Mawkishness is never funny, slapstick is puerile, pseudo philosophy is tedious. A potentially great writing talent is being wasted for lack of discipline and direction. Such a shame.	2001-11-20
US	53006845	R3OOYYDYLOTRVY	0871137321	645453083	America's Lost Treasure	Books	3	19	24	N	N	Splendid Book, Manipulated Reader, by fermed	This book is chronologically a sequel to the narrative \\"Ship of Gold in the Deep Blue Sea\\" by Gary Kinder, in which this writer masterfully described the tragic history of the \\"Central America\\" and the details of the successful recovery (by Tommy Thompson's group) of the gold she carried when she sank in 1857. Kinder's name is not mentioned in the body or the index of this book. What happened?<br />The good news is that this is a spectacular book: it is beautifully printed and illustrated. The pictures of the sunken \\"Central America\\" loaded with gold and lying in deep waters since it went under are simply breathtaking. The gold ingots, and coins and nuggets and dust have acquired a queer beauty during the years they have rested in the sea bed; the luster of the metal is still there even as it has been affected by is 131 year immersion in the depths: to be crawled over and probed by the strange denizens that thrive down there, and to react to the mysterious chemistry that is created in the deep.<br />Yes, this is a beautiful book that is irresistible to look at. When exposed to the passinge gaze of others it is invariably picked up and held, and exclamations of awe become intermingled with \\"Can I borrow it?\\" One must be strong if the book is to remain ours.<br />The not so good part is the feeling of sheer manipulation that the book imparts, based on what the book does not say--but should. I remember how distressing it was that \\"Ship of Gold\\" lacked clear photographs of the treasure found. It seemed downright stingy not to publish at least a few pictures of the loot. Well, here are the missing photos, yours for [item price] plus shipping. So what is missing in this one?<br />For one there is no manifest of what was taken out of the \\"Central America.\\" While in the previous book (if I remember correctly) it was stated that the ship sank with 20 (or so) TONS of gold, in this book the author is ever so elusive about totals.Here he speaks in these tersm: \\"In addition to many tons of gold...\\" or \\"This was compounded by the sinking of the \\"Central America,\\" which sent its huge load of gold...to the bottom of the sea.\\" It isn't that Tommy Thompson doesn't know how to count: \\"Bound for New York with 578 passangers and crew and 38,000 pieces of mail, the \\"Central America\\" also contained tons of gold...\\"<br />Yes, there are lots of beautiful pictures of the artifacts and even clothing that was brought up, but no accounting of exactly what was extracted. The absence of this accounting (just how many tons of gold, how many coins, bars, ingots, how many glass bottles) renders the book of limited historical value. It would have taken no more than a couple of pages to furnish such information, but one feels the absence of this data was a conscious decision of the author. <br />In summary, if you want to regale your eyes with the treasures of this ship, get the book. I you are interested in the exact details of this find and recovery, don't.	2001-11-13
US	53006845	RGT6A34P5165A	0916870634	324291494	Wayward Reporter: Life of A.J. Liebling	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Portrait of a	Raymond Sokolov has written an extraordinary biography of A.J. Liebling, who was one of the most brilliant and elusive of the \\"New Yorker\\" legends. Writing about a writer is hard enough, but writing about this one required not only a thorough knowledge of his work (hard to find, some of his work) but a true ability to enter the man's head, as they say, and tell some of the story from that perch. A. J. Liebling was brilliant and a true connoisseur of all the things he thought were important: food, wine, friendship, writing.<br />Liebling joined the \\"New Yorker\\" in 1935, and wrote for it until his death in 1963. He was hired by Harold Ross and his editor was William Shawn. Both in his personal and his professional realms, Liebling was disordered and off kilter, often battered and turbulent, and generally quite exciting. He did not actually finish high school, but was accepted at Dartmouth, from where he was twice expelled for failure to meet the minimum attendance at chapel, so that he did not finish his studies there, either. But he wrote a great deal at Dartmouth, and at the insistence of his father he enrolled in courses at the Pulitzer School of Journalism at Columbia, where he managed to stay for a couple of years; while at Columbia he was assigned to cover police stories, and this lead him to serve as an assistant to well established newspaper reporters and to learn the mechanics of the trade.<br />He married three times, lived in France (wrote many \\"Letters from Paris\\") and reported World War II in detail (starting in 1939). He participated in the Normandy landings on D day, whence he produced a particularly memorable piece concerning his experiences on a landing craft. He was there when the Allies entered Paris, and this caused him to write afterwards: \\"For the first time in my life and probably the last, I have lived for a week in a great city where everybody was happy.\\"<br />Liebling was probably the first to take advantabe of the penumbral area in which fiction and reality are barely discernible from one another, and to exploit it in his writing. Capote followed. <br />He wrote about writing, too, in his classical \\"Wayward Press\\" columns of the \\"New Yorker.\\" He was, in fact, the first serious critic of the press, a job he clearly relished. In people he gravitated towards the odd, the slightly weird, and the eccentrics who had found niches in life from which they they sometimes prospered, often not: in other words, the low life. In New York and London and Paris he consorted and maintained society with strange people, in relationships that spanned decades. These people thought highly of Liebling and what he stood for; what he stood for contained much decency and a total lack of pretension. He spoke to people by remaining silent and letting them speak, something which appears easy but is not. He wrote about the many things he got to understand from these poeple, using clear, simple prose. He was meticulously accurate in his work, aided in this by a formidable memory which allowed him to quote verbatim hours of conversation, long after it had taken place. <br />Sokolov's biography of A.J. Liebling is as complete and exacting as no doubt his subject would demand. It contains a bibliography, an index and chapter notes. This is an enhancing book: one feels better after reading it.	2001-11-10
US	53006845	R3Q412QTRSVHFH	0375407375	175582861	Half a Life	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Half A Naipaul?, by fermed	The master of modern prose and the 2001 Nobel prize in literature has brought forth a disagreeable book of ennui and failure in which not a single character is pleasant, or warm, or interesting enought to bother about. With all his descriptive powers intact, Naipaul renders such a bitter and devastating view of the human condition, that (I think) few readers will be able to enjoy this novel. It is the opposite of \\"I couldn't put it down\\" kind of book: one just wants to put it down, perhaps permanently.<br />It is a book of flawed and weakened characters, of pernicious motivations of the kind one does not look forward to exploring: laziness, inadequacy, contempt for others, cowardliness. It is bad enough to have to contemplate such conditions over a brief period of time (such as in someone's college days, say), but extending this awful landscape for three generations seems a little extreme. Naipaul invokes the visit to India (in 1938) of William Somerset Maugham, in which his brief interaction with Indian culture spawned \\"The Razor's Edge.\\" That visit resulted, in Naipaul's fiction, in the naming of the main character of \\"Half A Life\\" as William Somerset Chandran (Willie), a person that contains many threads of Naipaul's true biography; but these are perverted and distorted threads that do not ennoble Willie, but rather make him the whimpering coward that appears in this book.<br />In this Naipaul landscape there are no presumptive emotions of the redeeming sort: fathers hate and reject sons, and sons reciprocate those feelings; Gandhi's encouragement for self sacrifice is rendered empty and evil, as a young man decides to court (sort of) a girl from the \\"backward\\" class who is in college on scholarship. He finds the girl repulsive, and thus his Gandhian \\"sacrifice.\\" He furthers the sacrifice with a vow of sexual abstinence, which would require no heroic effort or discipline. Nevertheless, the vow is broken, and thus Willie and eventually a sister are brought into the world. Victimizations of one kind or another dominate this book.<br />I do not doubt that some day this novel will be studied at universities as an example of Naipaul's darker side, of his rejection of the posibility of redemption through nobility and decency of character; and so, as an object of study, this is a highly recommended book; but as an entertainment, I would look elsewhere. The title \\"Half a Life\\" surely reflects the incomplete and disappointing ending of the book, which leaves the reader as if holding only half a novel.	2001-10-27
US	53006845	R3HMUPV57YBRWR	0895261677	314528012	The Final Days: The Last, Desperate Abuses of Power by the Clinton White House	Books	5	2	6	N	N	An Index to the Final Abuses by the Clintons, by fermed	Barbara Olson wrote THE political biography of Hillary Clinton (\\"Hell to Pay\\") and had just completed \\"The Final Days: The Last, Desperate Abuses of Power by the Clinton White House\\" when she became one of the victims of the hijacked flight that crashed into the Pentagon. The world lost a powerful and clear voice that defended the rule of law and all that is good in America; her family and friends encouraged the publishers to proceed with making this book public, and for that we must be thankful and extend to them out sympathy for the terrible loss they have experienced.<br />Ms. Olson, for years an investigator, attorney for the Department of Justice, prosecutor, and counsel for the United States Senate had the instincts and the skills to know where to focus her interest in exposing the most corrupt and vulgar White House in modern times, perhaps ever. In its final days the White House of Bill and Hillary ratcheted up the frequency and intensity of their abuses of power, and this book traces all the known instances of egregious misuse of Presidential authority at the end of their term. She describes those last days as a mad feeding frenzy.<br />The style of the book is restrained and sedate, and that is perhaps part of the source of its devastating power. It entirely lacks in histrionics, and as it lays out the extraordinary abuses, category by category, an awful monument to corruption and venality emerges from under her steady hand. A monument which is most likely to become the real (and much vaunted) \\"legacy\\" of the Clinton presidency. <br />The book contains no major breakthroughs showing additional corruption on the part of the Clintons. The history that is covered is well known to those who make notes of such things: the corruption of the \\"pardon\\" powers of the presidency, i.e. clemency for cash, clemency for political deals, clemency for friends; pardons for terrorists, pardons for cop killers, pardons for drug dealers, pardons for those who might help electHillary; and the taking of things that belonged to the people, not the Clintons: furniture, clothes, art, and gifts; nothing new here, but when it is all aligned and organized, and we are shown how it all worked, it is likely that even hardened cynics (of either party) will not failed to be amazed and horrified. The enumeration of their corruption is astonishing; and the power of the book to move the reader lies in that meticulous accounting of the awful things this counple did during their last days in the White House.<br />Occasionally the book reveals fleeting looks at how the people in contact with the Clintons reacted, and what they did. A favorite: \\"...marine guards failed to execute a right face to stand facing [Clinton's] back as he walked away. The marines somehow relearned this maneuver on January 20, 2001, when the new commander-in-chief [] took office. \\" The book also cites the three Bartlett's Familiar Quotations which are his verbal legacy: \\"I...didn't inhale\\"; \\"I did not have sexual relations with that woman...\\"; and lastly \\"It depends what the meaning of the word 'is' is...\\"<br />The writing is smooth and compressed (216) pages. It has a full set of chapter notes, and a good index. It is an excellent resource for those interested in the history of the Clinton presidency, and it is a wondeful final tribute to Barbara Olson: may she rest in peace.	2001-10-21
US	53006845	R1ZN1VYOJALYH4	0312274793	82859386	The Rich Part of Life: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Great First Novel, by fermed	There is something wonderful about a first novel that has so much humor, warmth and insight that its arrival heralds a new and assertive voice in the world of fiction. Surely we can look forward to more delights and joys as Jim Kokoris explores and shares with the world his extraordinary talents as a writer.<br />That so fine a creation would be sent into the world without the backing of proper proof-reading and editorial support is a small crime, but not an unusual one in these days of cost cutting. I mention this only because the profusion of typos in the book actually interferes with the joy of reading it.<br />The book is written in the first person, from the point of view of an eleven year old, who is hands down one of the funniest and most charming characters to appear in recent literature. Teddy Pappas was already in the throes of pre-adolescent quirks and and stirrings, when his father (a recently widowed, distant abstracted, History professor)purchases what becomes a winning lottery ticket, and Teddy's world (the subject of the book) is sudenly and madly out of control.<br />Some humor is quiet, like a tear seen through a smile, and there is plenty of that kind here; but there is the other kind also, when one suddenly starts laughing aloud at the vibrant shock of the immediacy of recognizing ourselves in another's folly, or by being suddenly surprised by a truth about ourselves, when we least expected it.<br />The extraordinary creativity of this book is (I hate to say) unevenly distributed; it gives the impression that too many cooks have attended to this broth, so that the narrative evolves from the superbly funny and moving first few chapters, through and adequate middle, to a wimpering end. Yes, there are many remarkable episodes that pepper the entire length of the book, so that indeed the novel holds together well enough. The characters are properly developed and rendered, and at no point does the book stagnate; but the raw, delightful creativity withwhich it starts is not sustained at the end.<br />\\"The Rich Part of Life\\" is a book of warmth, of humor, and of ultimate decency. Jim Kokoris has a deep and rare talent, and this book is a fine introduction to it. You should read it.	2001-10-16
US	53006845	R3CFYD84F5LDLJ	0375501290	928502416	The Botany of Desire: A Plant's-Eye View of the World	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Apple, Tulip, Cannabis, and Potato, by fermed	Michael Pollan is a very fine writer and also a gardener. As a writer he is infinitely curious about all things, and in this book he asks us to follow him through an explication of evolution as seen from the point of view (more or less) of the four plants whose products are mentioned in the title of this review.<br />It is a very exciting trip he takes us on, for as lay people, if we think about evolution at all, it is primarily about the descent of this animal from that other one, or about chracteristics that make this creature, and not that one, survive genetically. Seldom do we think about the co-evolution of plants with man, and that is what this book is all about. Some plants have latched onto man and given him sweetness, or beauty, or food, or pleasing brain alterations. In exchange man has protected, and nurtured, and chosen those plants who please him; and in the process the genetic material of the plants has been given additional chances to survive in this world. Humans have cut trees to help weeds become stronger and livelier; and weeds have given wheat and oats; humans have irrigated vast fields for other weeds, and they have produced rice with more and bigger grains.<br />This delightful book has apparently irritated many people. Scientists find it incomplete, or superficial, or a document wrongly popularizing scientific facts; those who oppose the very notion of evolution find the book presumptuous and wrong. Others just plain don't like its tone, or its friendliness towards cannabis; but those of us who are neither scientists, nor bigots, nor carriers of axes in need of grinding, find the book quite stupendous in the amazing things it brings to light.<br />I don't think I will ever treat an apple without admiration, or pass by a tulip and ignore it, or demean a potato; not being a fancier of cannabis, I'm not sure what I'll do if I come across one of those plants during a quiet walk in the country. At leat, I'll doff my cap.<br />This is a great book to give to gardening friends, or to anyone who toils the land. Or even to those who are simply still in awe about anything having to do with nature.	2001-10-04
US	53006845	R3LJG5EMPBOPV2	158542109X	351608178	The Crossing: The Curious Story of the First Man to Swim the English Channel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Tiny Treasure, by fermed	Kathy Watson has crafted a jewel of a book, an exotic Victoria portrait that goes far beyond the simple description of Captain Webb and his extraordinary swimming of the English Channel - the first person ever to do so in recorded history.<br />For in this miniature we certainly see bits and pieces and touches of ouselves in ways that force us to immediately recognize the subject of the book: the having done a daring, or honorable, or brave, or even brilliant act in our past, one that defined us as eminently worthwhile members of the human family. Perhaps only we knew about what we had done, perhaps we did it only in silence, perhaps there was never outside recognition; but most of us have one or more of those moments, just as Capt. Webb had when he did his extraordinary feat, only less so. He was certainly recognized and feted and admired; he received cash and other rewards for demonstrating British pluck in his accomplishment. And then...glory was taken away from him. Not in one fell swoop, but gradually and ignominiously over a period of 8 years, when he ended his life as a boastful freak who attempted to swim the Whirlpool Rapids at Niagara Falls and failed.<br />The story of this brilliant meteor and its crash is splendidly narrated; the prose is redolent with Victorian language without being Victorian prose. Meticulous research has obviously been used to underpin the narrative, and the author's joy and enthusiasm is everywhere: \\"Niagara,\\" she explains \\"had become the primary port of call in North America for daredevils, con men, suicides, sensation-seekers, and nutcases\\" in 1883 when Capt. Webb arrived.<br />Ms. Watson gives statistics, but does not burden us with them; since Capt Webb there have been 500 or so people who have swum the Channel, but today it is much easier (but not easy) because of the expert knowledge that has built over the years on how to prepare for, and execute, a crossing. Not so when Jabez Wolffe made his first attempt in 1906, nor in the ensuing years, when he tried 22 times and never succeeded in his quest.<br />Whether one swims or not, this is an exciting and delightful book. Yes, it ends in the defeat of Capt. Webb, but somehow this failure totally pales when compared to his success; and because of that, this is an upbeat book of optimism and hope, brilliantly written.	2001-09-30
US	53006845	R3RVH4GBOTT18M	0802776175	923264418	The Perfect Heresy: The Revolutionary Life and Death of the Cathars	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The Perfect Reading for a Fall Afternoon, by fermed	South of the Loire they used \\"oc\\" for \\"yes,\\" and so that area became known and Languedoc, and even today when everyone there speaks French it is called Languedoc. The region has a warm, mild climate with brilliant light that has attracted painters over the years, Van Gogh and Picasso among others; but in the 13th century it was apt to be the venue of singers and jugglers and troubadours; of assorted saints and sinners who traversed the benign and rolling lands for the simple reason that they could. Among those who came and settled were people who held heretical beliefs which descended from the \\"two gods\\" theological theories: for how can one explain the evil of the world without a bad god, just as powerful and in constant struggle with the good one? The prototype for this dualistic posture came from the disciples of Mani, who preached in Persia during the middle of the years 200 of this era. His followers, the manicheans, were eventually exterminated as heretics.<br />Into the warm valleys of Languedoc they came, wearing stark dark robes held at the waist by leather straps. They asked for nothing, these ascetic monks, except to be listened to. They often settled in small villages to practice the trade of weaving. Their probity, chastity, industry and generosity stood them in good stead among the peasants and nobles alike. They were the \\"Perfects\\" or true Cathars. They were living saints, destined to break the cycle of reincarnation that those who lived unwholesome lives were sure to follow; unless, of course, if at the time of death these sinners received the \\"consolamentum,\\" the only sacrament of the Cathars. The consolamentum turned the receiver into a Perfect, and therefore a candidate for immediate salvation. Those who only believed in the Cathar doctrines were called \\"credentes,\\" and this status required none of the discipline (for example: the no sex rule, or the restrictive dietary laws) of the Perfects. The idea was to remain a credente as long as possible,enjoying sex and food to the hilt, and then, at the end of life, become a Perfect. <br />The combination of personal virtue and profound contempt for the vanities, sins and hypocrisy of the mediaval Church was certain to, sooner or later, arouse the corporate giant of the Church into a massive reaction against the Cathars. So massive, in fact, that the Church invented its famous Inquisition not in Spain against Arabs and Jews, but in Frace against the Cathars. Nor did it stop there: the fashionable weapon of those days, the Crusade, was brought against the Cathars. This particular crusade (1209-1229) was known as the Albigensian, named after the town Albi, a nest of heretical Cathars.<br />O'Shea's book is crisply written, and it reads not like \\"history,\\" but but as an intriguing (and beautiful) work of fiction. Because of this, some critics have found the history part of the book to be thin, superficial and lacking in heft. The book certainly does not enter your head with the dull and dreary thud of a history book. Hallelujah! It is highly recommended to the general reader. It has a good index, plenty of notes, an adequate bibliography, some pictures, and a few maps; all nicely bound and presented as a quality paperback.	2001-09-19
US	53006845	R33VYZDIXLU9K9	039596783X	62914922	How to Read a French Fry: and Other Stories of Intriguing Kitchen Science	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Walking a Tight-Rope, by fermed	I must say this is a strange book. Its cutsey title (\\"How to read a French-fry\\") begs for a snippity, dismissive retort; and yet, despite the many reservations that I have about this book, it remains an important volume and one that I highly recommend. <br />The tight-rope has to do with the author's continuos flirtation with disaster, in which he tiptoes gingerly on the edge of culinary catastrophe (with us in tow) while he insults our minds and irritates our emotions restlessly; and just as we are on the verge of throwing the book in the trash, he suddenly pulls us away from the abyss and rewards us with wondrous information. Certainly if one reads the recipes, one after another, the book produces profound dismay: they are generally long, complex, they often require ingedients not found in the well stocked kitchen, some are eccentric and others just don't seem worth the effort. Strawberry soup might be very good, but somehow I don't see myself gathering a bottle of red wine, a 3-inch vanilla bean, 2 pints of strawberries, 1 1/2 cups of vanilla icecream, and a cup of sugar to produce it; oh, and six almond cookies. Nor will I spend six hours with my oven at 425 degrees to obtain \\"lamb and lentils to eat with a spoon.\\" There are many ways, faster and easier, to cook lamb to succulent tenderness. Just because it is amazing that the lamb in this recipe doesn't turn into a dried, charred mess (as Mr. Parsons promises us it won't)is no reason to prepare the dish. Perhaps, out of the 100 recipes in the book, there are ten or so that were intriguing and possibly delicious; but the recipes it contains are not the reason to own this book. <br />No, it is the discussion of food and food techniques that I find outstanding and that makes the work enlightening. The author recognizes his indebtedness to Harold McGee, whose \\"On Food and Cooking\\" is one of the great classics of cookery and available from Amazon, of course. There is a difference, though. McGee has more authority and depth is his discussions, but Parsons has the writer's skill that brilliantly explains great complexities in simple terms; and makes the reader want to keep on reading. <br />Parsons's discussion of potatoes is wonderfully simple. He states clearly the difference between baking potatoes and the boiling kind, so that in the future one will only simmer the boiler in order not to overcook it (starches in potatoes are fully gelatinized at 160 to 180 degrees and should not be boiled beyond that temperature). We will all most likely produce better mashed potatoes after experiencing this book. There are, of course, many more insightful wonders in the material that lies between the recipes. But even in this material Mr. Parsons can be infuriating: he speaks, for instance, of \\"daubes.\\" I looked through a dozen of my encyclopedic cookbooks and there was no entry for \\"daube\\" until I found it in Jacques Pepin's \\"La Technique.\\" It turns out to be a French word for \\"stew.\\" <br />My bet is that people reading this book will become better cooks. The book will improve their (own, old, standby) recipes as a result of the wisdom this book imparts. It is for this reason that I give it five stars: the wisdom found between the recipes trumps the terrible recipes themselves; this wisdom overcomes the lack of a bibliography; it overcomes the awful index (look up \\"croquette.\\" It is not in the index. Look at page 164 and you will see that the ratio of 3 tablespoons each of fat and flour per cup of liquid makes the thick white sauce that can be used as a base for croquettes!); the wisdom makes you ignore the pedantic \\"daube\\" and all other assorted shotcomings of the text. A cookbook that so surely will improve almost everyone's cooking deserves nothing less than five stars.	2001-08-29
US	53006845	R3B87FPVE2H63O	0895262274	620354319	At Any Cost: How Al Gore Tried to Steal the Election	Books	5	28	39	N	N	Cheating the GI's, by fermed	This is a frankly partisan book, aimed at showing how awful the Gore people were in their quest for power; and how Bush did not steal the election as the Gorites claimed. It makes no serious effort at being a balanced or dispassionate work, just a truthful one. And for this it should be commended. <br />That Florida was won by Bush has been proven over and over; and even such paragons of leftist bias as the New York Times, the Washington Post, and the Miami Herald, who have spent a combined fortune in re-counting ballots, now admit that Yes, Bush did win Florida by a sliver of a margin, varying in size but generally admitted to be in the three digit range, no more. Despite this, one frequently hears in the broadcast media mentions about Bush not being the legitimate winner of the 2000 election. <br />Even if you are a rabid democrat, ready to detest all things republican, including this president and certainly this book which purports to prove him the actual winner of the election, hold on a second. If you are decent, as I am sure you are, read chapter seven, entitled \\"Disenfranchising GI's.\\" <br />There are two things in this universe which I cannot abide: Child abuse (all abusers should be executed, no questions asked), and the exploitation of those in uniform for either commercial or political reasons. Chapter seven made my blood boil. The attempt by Gore lawyers (with his encouragement) to destroy the votes of GI's on technical [...]grounds was infuriating. What kind of political monster would try to do this? Even though in the end, the elimination of all armed service votes would not have changed the outcome of the election for Bush, I shall never forget what these corrupt and evil people did to those who were serving their country. [...]	2001-07-30
US	53006845	R3B7JSMLTOI356	0449907228	958780406	Great First Lines	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Not Just Trivia, by fermed	I should not have read it as I did: cover to cover in one sitting. A brief sitting, for sure, for it is a tiny book (4 x 6 inches, the size of a standard photograph) of 200 pages, each containing the opening lines of a famous book. But oh, what an experience it was. Like eating the most exquisite candies, one by one, till the box was empty. Listen: \\"On top of everything, the cancer wing was number 13.\\" Or this one: \\"It was a queer, sultry summer, the summer they electrocuted the Rosembergs, and I didn't know what I was doing in New York.\\"<br />The book can be used as a trivia quiz, of course. I'm sure Solzhenitsyn and Sylvia Plath jumped at you in the above quotations. Game one would be to read an opening line and ask someone to identify it. Alternatively, one could play a far more advanced game: asking someone to cite the opening lines of, say, \\"Lady Chatterly's Lover.\\" The book is wonderfully indexed; and because the pages that contain the quotations do not have the name of the author or of the book, the fist index is from page number, to authot, to book. The second index contains the alphabetical list of authors; and the third lists the books cited.<br />The book is cleverly organized with quotes arranged meaningfully whenever possible. Little did Vladimir Nabokov know that one day the opening of \\"Ada\\" would lie side by side with the opening of Anna Karenina, and that this would demonstrate that he, Nabokov, had forgotten Tolstoy's lines, and that no editor caught the slip. Said Tolstoy: \\"Happy families are all alike; every unhappy family is unhappy in its own way.\\" Nabokov's opening: \\"All happy families are more or less dissimilar; all unhappy ones are more or less alike, says a great Russian writer in the begining of a famous novel.\\"<br />I found a single error (in Kafka's \\"The Trial,\\" of course). The book quotes: \\"Someone must have traduced Joseph K., for without having done anything wrong he was arrested one fine morning.\\" \\"Maligned\\" should be substituted for\\"traduced\\" and then all is well.<br />It is impossible to give awards for the best opening; and yet, there seems to be a consensus (or so I have read) that the most perfect opening of a novel, ever, belongs to Gabriel Garcia Marquez's first sentence in \\"One Hundred Years of Solitude.\\" It is this: \\"Many years later, as he faced the firing squad, Colonel Aurelio Buendia was to remember that distant afternoon when his father took him to discover ice.\\"<br />This is a great little book. I dip into it more than I should, and its cover will not hold up much longer, but I have a sweet tooth for great writing. And, before I forget, Lady Chatterly opens thus: \\"Ours is essentially a tragic age, so we refuse to take it tragically.\\"	2001-07-28
US	53006845	R1S59FOTMC8Z2O	0684837633	58155788	Tina and Harry Come to America: Tina Brown, Harry Evans, and the Uses of Power	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Flat Gossip, by fermed	This is a book of gossip - the reliable and truthful type - about some rather dull people. It follows Tina Brown and Harry Evans from their origins in London to their adventures in Americaland. My interest in Tina Brown derives from being a longtime reader of the New Yorker, which she edited during a few crucial years during the magazine's inexorable descent into vulgarity and irrelevance. The book, however, did not satisfy my curiosity about what kind of a person would do the New Yorker that way. While it describes Tina Brown and her career quite well (not a flattering picture, for sure) it is weak about the dynamics of her tenure at the New Yorker. Not a single mention of John Updike appears, he who was reputed to have tried, more or less alone with a spade and bucket, to control Tina's diluvium.<br />The book has poor literary quality, its prose being surprisingly colorless and flat. Unless a person has an unusual interest in the publishing industry of London or New York (dozens of second and third tier characters appear), it is hadly worth the effort of reading it.	2001-07-26
US	53006845	R3PXXH4226LU9D	1890451037	447879477	Deviant Desires: Incredibly Strange Sex	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Riding the Ponies, by fermed	This is a book about exotic fetishes, and even if one has no procivities towards what the book offers (EVERYBODY HAS SOME, the book affirms) it makes for extremely interesting reading. The book is devoted to nine types of fetishes, and of these the largest and most profusely illustrated has to do with the ponies (about 60 pages). This consists of young, pretty things, who dress up with saddles, stirrups and other accouterments normally found on horses. Placing themselves on all fours, these ladies offer themselves for riding experiences. Other play activities have to do with body inflation, slopping in messy liquid (or semi-liquid) substances, the adoration of extremely large women (I mean VERY LARGE: in the 550 pound category), the enjoyment of deviant trekky fantasies (Mr. Spok's green Vulcan penis is mentioned), and other sexually interesting objects.<br />The book guides the reader to assorted web pages that can be used for further sexual explorations. It presents such unusual things as the art of Romaine Slocombe which is devoted to drawings and photographs of bandaged, cast, and often hospitalized Asian ladies. These are shown with an accompanying fantasy that they met medical catastrophes of one sort or another while on vacation. Thus the title of Slocombe's little manual: \\"Sad Vacations.\\" Whether one can find sexual provocation in a picture of a bandaged creature entitled \\"Fracture without displacement of left tibia -- deep cut in left bicemps\\" will depend greatly on the type of kink that possesses you.<br />Truly an eye-opener. I'll take that back: no surgical or sexual eye openings appear in the book. What I meant was: an enlightening entertainment for the sexually adventurous.	2001-04-22
US	53006845	R30JYIHZRQD2I2	0060394072	745283847	American Terrorist: Timothy McVeigh and the Oklahoma City Bombing	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Normal Assassin, by fermed	This is not a book BY Tim McVeigh, it is about him. Some ... believe that buying this book somehow shows friendliness towards McVeigh or is an insult to the people of Oklahoma. Nothing could be further from the truth: everybody, especially the people of Oklahoma, should read this book and learn. Learn not that a monster is capable of monstrous acts (we all know that), but that a normal individual is also capable of mass murder, gross brutality and heartless cruelty. It is a thing that, over the centuries, good people have refused to believe; it is the thing that, in the end, is truly frightening.<br />...[N]othing is more shocking than to see a perfectly normal, sane and polite assassin do his work. This was no monster (like C. Manson, for example). No. This was a normal and likable guy. <br />For many years English and American writers attempted to find medical or psychiatric conditions in Hitler that would somehow make his behavior explainable in terms of disease (syphilis was a favorite for a while) or abnormal psychology (madness of one sort or another). But the truth of his monstrosity was much worse: Hitler was no more abnormal in his makeup than millions of others: English, French, American, Israeli. His only abnormality was in what he managed to do, not in what ailments he may have had. The paradox that very normal people can do very abnormal things was brought forth in Hitler, once more.<br />Tim McVeigh was (is) a perfectly nice, normal individual. His thinking was clear, his physical health excellent, he came from a good family and he had no scars of childhood abuse or sexual molestation. When he lit the fuses that detonated the truck he was functioning at a peak of mental and physiological health and control. He wanted to blow up a building full of people, he knew exactly how to do it, and he did it with care and precision. He wanted the building to be owned by the federal government, and that the people he killed would be, preferably, federal employees.He was wearing a t-shirt with two images and two quotations: on the front was a drawing of A. Lincoln with the famous quotation from Booth as he shot Lincoln \\"Thus ever to tyrants\\" (\\"Sic semper tyrannis\\") and on the back a quotation from Jefferson, less known but even more powerful: \\"The tree of liberty must be refreshed from time to time with the blood of patriots and tyrants.\\" So there you are: Tim McVeigh, the good soldier, the patriot, following the precepts of the writer of the Declaration of Independence against a government turned tyrannical.<br />It is hard to believe that those who were horrified by Oklahoma City would not be interested in knowing the nature of the person who conducted this massacre, and his motives for it. This book lays it all out for everybody to see. I could not put it down. The writers, Michel and Herbeck, are newspaper people, and thus their prose is simple and direct, but not distinguished.The book is well paced and edited, and it contains a good index. <br />Soon McVeigh will become a hero to many. His life will be peacefully extinguished, and then he will be transformed into a symbol of resistence against the American government, an institution he believed had been sold down the river by traitors. For the first time in 37 years the Federal bureaucracy will execute someone. The date has been set for May 16, 2001, and that date will itself become a symbol and a license to kill others. Hitler's birthday (April 20) has become associated with many violent acts, the latest being Columbine; Oklahoma City (April 19th) was, purposively, on the same date as Waco. May 16th will eventually be memorialized with more violence. Death goes on; and so does life.	2001-04-21
US	53006845	R38PP0NUEUD8TS	0789203294	479738299	A World History of Photography by Naomi Rosenblum (1997) (3rd Edition)	Books	5	25	30	N	N	Superb! by fermed	I have owned a copy of this book for several years and it still gets used with the frequency it deserves. I confess having been quite ignorant about the history of photography: it seemed the type of record I would not be particularly interested in (old photos are too old, and new ones are in the daily paper); but my attempt to read Susan Sontag's book ON PHOTOGRAPHY demanded precisely the nearby presence of a reference such as this one, and so I came to own my copy. The book is very thorough, deeply scholarly, and broadly based. If it has to do with the record of photography as culture it is likely to be found here. I treasure it.	2001-04-13
US	53006845	R2HRI0LF3DDFCW	0385267061	572604375	On Photography	Books	5	57	79	N	N	On Photography, On Life, by fermed	Every so often one reads about tourists who are found strangled with the strap of their cameras in some obscure alleyway of Bangkok or Manila. Or New York. The camera is invariably missing, of course, and one would wish that the perpetrator had left a message on the body explaining the crime. A copy of ON PHOTOGRAPHY placed on the victim's chest would splendidly communicate most of the motivations for such murders.<br />People who possess even the rudiments of sensitivity become aware, without any necessary explanations, that holding a camera is not unlike holding a gun. It conveys upon the possesor raw power, whether it is wanted or not. How this power is used may result on the strangulation of the photographer.<br />This book, in a much more elegant way, is about such things. Its essays should be included as part of the operating instructions of all cameras sold in the US. I think that even the users of disposable cameras should read this book because it will not only improve their camera work, but their souls, also.<br />There are some shortcomings to the book. For one it does not have an index, a sin I find hard to forgive in any book of this nature. Nor does it contain any pictures, a most disconcerting fact. For as early as page 7 we are told that David Octavius Hill and Julia Margaret Cameron were early masters of photography. Uh? Never heard of them. And so, as part of this excercise in gaining Kultur, I was forced to purchase Naomi Rosenblum's A WORLD HISTORY OF PHOTOGRAPHY (available through Amazon[.com], naturally), a joyous addition to my book collection, and one in which I was able to find almost all of Ms. Sontag's references to photographers. Cameron and Hill were, of course, prominently discussed and their work carefully reproduced in Ms. Rosenblum's book. The two books in combination are wonderful; but, if on a budget, by all means consider that ON PHOTOGRAPHY is marvelous all by it self.	2001-04-13
US	53006845	R32WASQJRC2N9I	189355404X	158845917	Creating Equal: My Fight Against Race Preferences	Books	5	10	16	N	N	A Man of Honor, by fermed	As a resident of California I have voted consistently for propositions which would eliminate discrimination based on race. It seems like a simple decision to forbid the government from racial discriminations, whatever their appearance. I had, of course, heard of Ward Connerly and his leadership in keeping such discrimination out of the higher educational system; but I had not read his book until recently, and once more I was amazed and infuriated by what the Left (Maxine Waters, The Reverend Jackson, and the rest) does to those who cross them. <br />Amazed and infuriated that a man of principle would have to put up with attacks on his probity and his integrity. Mr. Connerly's contention that no one should be excluded from higher education in California because of skin color is not in the least revolutionary: and yet his attempts to try to institutionalize such a principle have brought him personal insults and the overt hatred of those wanting to keep a system of racial preferences. A system that humiliates blacks and Hispanics and excludes many Asians. Racial preferences are a form of telling minorities that they are too dumb to compete, too lazy to sustain themselves in a higher education system, and too unmatched intellectually to be compared to the rest of the population. It is also a way of telling others (whites and Asians) to go seek their education elsewhere.<br />This book, aside from being a delightful history of one man's rise to the top, is also a practical manual on the politics of intimidation and deceit with which the Left treats those who dare speak the truth, if such truth is at variance with their plans.<br />I am sorry that decent and honest people like Ward Connerly are forced to live through the horrors that the Left keeps in store for individuals like him who speak out, and who then try to implement their ideas. In the end Connerly will continue to be victorious, of course. It is just a pity that so much pain is involved in actualizing his honest and sound ideas.	2001-04-09
US	53006845	RX43VY7ALNRLS	0395779278	962738707	Constantine's Sword: The Church and the Jews: A History	Books	5	2	3	N	N	From Crucifixion to Holocaust, by fermed	It has been a very long road that Christianity and Judaism have traveled together, and an uncomfortable one; this book (600 pages of text) can only touch the highlights of the trip. In the year 70 Titus and his Roman legions marched through Jerusalem, destroying the temple, slaugtering 600,000 Jews, dispersing the survivors, and bringing an end to the Jewish War.<br />Both the survival of the dispersed Jews and their maltreatment by Christianity, can probably by ascribed to Augustine (425) who opposed the actual extinction of the Jews for Biblical and theological reasons. He wanted these people to survive (but not flourish) in order that they be witnesses to the Biblical prophesies about a Messiah, and in order that their religion be continued as a foil that would enhance Christian doctrine. Had it not been for Augustine's opposition to their slaughter, it is likely that Jews would have disappeared under the power of the Church, just as pagans and heretics everywhere met with their obliteration, always fueled by early Christian theology.<br />Whether there is a straight line uniting the history of the Church with an inevitable Holocaust of the Jews is certainly debatable (and is constantly being debated in modern times). This book advocates such a line in no uncertain terms, and as a reader that was dubious at first, the sheer weight of evidence over the many centuries covered by this book left me quite convinced that without doubt the teachings of the Church were responsible for much, if not all, of the Holocaust.<br />James Carroll is a defrocked priest, and he may have an ax to grind over the institution he divorced; still, his hand is fair in the treatment of the facts, and he most certainly is not unreasonable in his advocacy of Church blame.<br />Carroll's prose is splendid in its lightness and ease of reading. The material covered in this volume could easily have become a prose quagmire, but it did not. I found the reading a true pleasure because of its accesibility and the making of complex (and historically distant) notions easy to grasp and to digest. Even those who do not read history for pleasure will enjoy this book. For amateur historians, the book is extremely well referenced and indexed. The bibliography, however, does not include B. Netanyahu, a modern historian of the Iberian Jews. Netanyahu's views are controversial and perhaps unproven, but no one should write about the Inquisition and the Jew's expulsion from Spain without at least a nod in his direction. Despite this absence I give the book the best possible rating and recommend it highly.	2001-04-08
US	53006845	R43PK7PF3ZNO7	1890626287	979941263	The Art of Political War and Other Radical Pursuits	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Truth Monger, by fermed	I admit an addiction to the writings of David Horowitz. They are clean, uncluttered, direct, and on target. The target, of course, is the Left in all of its manifestations, including some wings of the Democratic party. Horowitz was born and raised a creature of the left, and gained a measure of national prominence as an editor of Ramparts magazine and as a buddy of Black Panther leaders in the 60's. The epiphany that forced a reconsideration of his political life came when his good friend, Betty Von Patter, was wantonly murdered by the Panthers, who had changed from a movement of political idiocy into a profitable business of drug dealing. Betty knew too much to survive. <br />The story is all laid out in Horowitz's autobiography RADICAL SON, which is a marvel of self-disclosure, a confessional in which the reader sees the inevitability of the clash that is to come between a man of honor and a movement (communist, progressive) in which there is no room for personal decency if it interferes with the movement's acquisition or application of raw power. <br />It is Horowitz's peculiar talent to present the left in all its horror: frontal nudity of a debauched body in decay, the frilly worn clothes of a phony movement that \\"cares\\" for the underdog and the dispossessed hanging near by, a picture of squalor and deceit.<br />This book is a fine example of his writing and is highly recommended. If I could pick only one of his two recent books, HATING WHITEY would be my choice; but given the alternative I would get them both, as I did.	2001-04-08
US	53006845	R1C3AS87OL15YN	0684836696	770654209	Losing the Race: Self-Sabotage in Black America	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Powerful Concepts, Necessary Words, by fermed	This is a book about blacks in America and I am not black; yet the issue of race is as important to me as it is to everyone, no matter what their skin color. I saw and applauded the extraordinary changes that took place in the sixties with the advent of the civil rights movement and the legistation it fostered. It brought about the enfranchisement of blacks.<br />As the years went by, I expected that sooner or later African American leaders would congratulate themselves (and maybe whites, also) about the immense changes they had accomplished, and about their occupying, at last, a place in an economic and educational playing field that, through their efforts, was now more or less level; but in time, the complaints about white racism, the cries of oppression, and the demands for redress not only did not abate, but, hearing the agonizing wails of some of their leaders, one would have thought that slavery was back and more virulent than ever. <br />What Martin Luther King and his supporters had to say about the brutal social status of blacks in the nation made a lot of sense because social injustice in a grand scale was there for all to see. What Maxine Waters, Al Sharpton, Jesse Jackson, and others so loudly decry now in terms of whites abusing and oppressing blacks is impossible to see because it is simply not there. The war for the rightful place of blacks in society is over and has been won: nothing can stop a black from reaching the top because of the color of his skin; only small mop-up operations are still needed here and there, and they too are diminishing in frequency and importance. That notion is at the core of this book.<br />This is not a work devoted to \\"blaming the victims\\" as it has been misrepresented by some critics; it is simply a book addressing the issue of why blacks are not doing much better than they are, even though as a group they have already accomplished a great deal. Why not more? The subtitle of this book is \\"Self-Sabotage in Black America,\\" and McWhorter pulls no punches in his diagnosis of what is wrong: he sees blacks becoming professional victims paralyzed by their self-pity (\\"the cult of victimology,\\" he calls it) and being deprived by their own anti-intellectualism in the school system. He points to the \\"cult of separatism\\" in which blacks stay away from competing in the main culture because such a culture is \\"white\\" and therefore unfriendly. One of the most moving and disarming passages in the book is this:<br />\\"Every time a black person outside the ghetto calls herself oppressed because of scattered inconveniences, as opposed to the brute horrors that out ancestors lived with daily she is saying that Thurgood Marshall and Martin Luther King didn't accomplish anything but get some signs taken off some water fountains and allow us to sit where we want to on the bus. That, if you ask me, is sacrilege.\\"<br />It is a powerful book and an irritating one. The issues brought forth in it should be discussed openly while such discussions are still possible. The only true danger about this book is not that it will be read, but that it will not be read by enough people.	2001-03-16
US	53006845	R3E9FTNT931283	0439284031	69383288	Harry Potter Schoolbooks: Quidditch Through the Ages and Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Additional Rewards, by fermed	First we have Rowling's two charming little books, one a bestiary, the other a sports manual, both essential companions to the Harry P. series, packaged together as a unit; then we are told that the profits created by these books are going directly to a charity for children, so that for less than ten bucks we are entertained for a couple of hours, our mind is expanded by magic prose and wild imaginings, and in the process, we are being charitable. What more could we ask?<br />Well, ask. Yes, there is more. Lexicographers, amateurs or not, will derive instant gratification from the range of creativity found in the names that Rowling's beasties bear. The company of an unabridged dictionary (the OED will do) is guaranteed to enhance the enjoyment of these books, especialy the bestiary. There are 84 creatures in it, some with common names such as pixies, goblins, imps, ghouls, trolls and so on. These appear without dramatic changes in their configuration; but little did we (well, I) know about things such as their feeding patterns, personality traits, forms of reproduction, habitats and geographical locations. Then there are the names that come from ancient mythologies, such as dragons, phoenixes, manticores and basilisks. A check of the dictionary provides a good source to understand the transformations the author has given those animals. Then there are, of course, wonderful neologisms for invented creatures: my favority is the \\"plimpy,\\" a spherical fish with two legs who bottom-feeds on white snails. The drawing that appears in the book looks precisely like something that is called a \\"plimpy\\" should look. At least 25 of these creatures appear in the book, bearing their fantastic names (a malaclaw, a lethifold) which at time evoke English words. There are sudden surprises: take the Erumpent, the huge African horned quadruped that looks like a rhinoceros from a distance. Their horns contain a liquid which, when injected, causes the recipient to explode. OED states that\\"erumpent\\" means \\"That bursts forth.\\" Some neologisms insinuate their meaning: the Augurey is a bird whose song (a low and throbbing cry) was thought to predict death, but now it is known that they just foretell rain. One may have considered the Dodo a dead bird, but far from it: the Diricawls just do not let themselves be seen by Muggles (who called them Dodos) any more. <br />Yes, one definitely should apply a large dictionary to these wonderful new words that J. K. Rowling has served up. It expands the joy of the books.	2001-03-16
US	53006845	R2UUOOM43RF9UO	0374221871	677688643	Niccolo's Smile : A Biography of Machiavelli	Books	2	3	8	N	N	Flat, Dreary, by fermed	How is it possible that an examination of this man's tumultuous life could turn out so dreadfully boring? I do not know, and it is perhaps best to assign such lack of excitement to the fact that this is a translated work. The book has many faults, but perhaps its greatest is the pervasive flat tone. The narrative has not peaks or valleys that might keep us emotionally or intellectually interested. Reading about Machiavelli being physically tortured by his political enemies carries about the same excitement value as his amorous adventures, which are about as moving as the accounting for the pay of his troops. I completed reading this book the way I would finish foul tasting medicine: not because I liked it but because it would probably do me good. And indeed it did: when I started the book I knew practically nothing about the life of Machiavelli, and now I do. The fact that it was a painful acquisition instead of a jolly one is a note that I pass to prospective readers of this book.<br />The scholarship is good, the cover is pretty, and the title is fetching.	2001-03-07
US	53006845	ROMRORSEAFHNC	0028610105	755707312	How To Cook Everything: Simple Recipes for Great Food	Books	1	71	124	N	N	No. No. No. by fermed	A book with such a title invites challenges: EVERYTHING? Are you sure? Either no weight has been given to the variety of things that can be cooked (else such a title would be avoided) or the author is a humorist trying to pull our collective leg. Well, one other option exists, a most likely one: the title is a marketing ploy designed to sell a lot of books. <br />Before embarking on this review, I looked at each of the 114 previous commentaries by readers. The vast majority were full of praise for the book, and many declared it THE indispensable cookbook; but tucked in there, among the plaudits, were voices of dissent: one said she had tried to find 8 recipes in the book, and found not one of them; another did not like the overbearing tone of the author, and titled the review \\"Must I Be Lectured?;\\" yet another spoke about the results of using this book as \\"the worst food I've ever made.\\"<br />That this is not the work of a humorist was apparent when I saw the first recipe I checked: there is nothing funny about putting a red bell pepper in a Spanish potato omelette, as he advises; but even worse, Bittman either does not know, or does not want to let the reader know, how to turn the omelette in the pan. Incredibly, he advises to use the oven to cook the top of the omelette. Brought tears to my eyes, and not from the onions, either.<br />And so I examined the book's advice about a couple of basics: how to boil and egg, how to create mashed potatoes. This book flunks on both counts. It recommends piercing the eggs before boiling, a custom dismissed by \\"The Joy of Cooking,\\" and not even mentioned in McGee's classic \\"On Food and Cooking.\\" Both these books deal extensively with the issue of boiling an egg. Bittman's book is just not in the same culinary league as those others. By telling the reader to pierce he is forcing an entirely unnecessary maneuver which, aside from being potentially dangerous, may result in broken (and thus wasted) eggs before they go near the heat.<br />The book fails to mention that the best mashed potatoes come from the baked, not the boiled potato. Nothing wrong with the recipe in the book, of course, but a volume with such a grandiose title should mention how simple things are best prepared so that they yield their peak of flavor. <br />Some of the recipes look fine, if rather bland and prosaic. There are a few factual errors (as mentioned by another reviewer and confirmed and expanded by this one); but of all ironies, the greatest weakness of this book is its lack of completeness. Ethnic recipes are few (what, no paella?); many regular items have a single method of preparation: it is either it, or you are on your own (rabbit, sweetbreads, goose); and, of course, really difficult items, such as mountain oysters or chicken feet, are not even mentioned. <br />Three stars for the content of the book. I take away one star for the title, which unfairly represents the book to the purchaser. I take away another star because of its terrible index: a critic complained that the book contained no recipe for \\"vindaloo.\\" Actually a recipe for vindaloo does appear in the book under \\"spicy pork with cinnamon,\\" subtitled \\"vindaloo pork,\\" which is not mentioned in the index. Total for the book: one star. Try, you can find a better, more complete cookbook.	2001-03-07
US	53006845	RAJEGUTFJFAQC	0394719468	928146859	Shattered Mind	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Clear Explanation of Brain Functions, by fermed	\\"The Shattered Mind\\" was first published in 1975, and its usefulness has not diminished in the quarter century since then. Yes, there have been dramatic changes in the neurological sciences since that time, but because the book deals with the \\"basics,\\" it is still as relevant and useful as when it was first published. Howard Gardner's tone is uniformly optimistic and up-beat without being saccharine, something that is probably greatly appreciated by those suffering a sudden brain injury and by their relatives. The book allows them to acquire useful factual information and it also encourages them to develop the more rare and desirable qualities of hope and optimism when facing their difficult times.<br />Gardner was given the MacArthur Prize Fellowship (\\"The Genius Award\\"), in part, for this book. There was a time in my life when I frequently had to deal with relatives of stroke victims, and it was this book that I most often recommended when I was asked for literature about brain injuries and their effect on the emotions and personalities of the victims. This book has done incalculable good to those needing a quick manual to allow them to understanding the brain and its functions.<br />The book manages to be scientifically rigorous while at the same time making its material easily accessible to any reasonably intelligent adult. There is no need to know neuroanatomy or neuropathology to enjoy the book. Its prose is compellingly easy, and the material is rendered with a story-teller's touch. Readers who have sampled the masterful work of neurologist Oliver Sacks (\\"The Man Who Mistook His Wife For A Hat,\\" \\"Awakenings\\" and many other books) will also treasure this one.	2001-02-23
US	53006845	RYU0ENCXEC5VB	0312230826	747474986	Feeling Your Pain: The Explosion and Abuse of Government Power in the Clinton-Gore Years	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Corruption and Dishonesty, by fermed	This is the third in a series of books by James Bovard in which he itemizes the abuses of power carried out by the Clinton-Gore team. The others (\\"Lost Rights,\\" 1995; \\"Freedom in Chains,\\" 1999) touch on some of the material that appears here, but there are enough new outrages in \\"Feeling Your Pain\\" that it is worthwhile to read this volume in addition to the others. <br />What Clinton-Gore did to the nation was so evil that it is this book which should have been the template for Clinton's impeachment proceedings. He should have been tried not for his erectile misadventures and ensuing lies, but for gross violation of his oath of office and the abuses of power with which Clinton ruled. Unfortunately, most of the citizenry has not and never will read the truth about Clinton's regimen. What we are seeing in recent months in terms of the last minute thievery and corruption is but the tail end of 8 years of dishonest government. <br />Each chapter in the book is carefully annotated, and a good index to the volume allows the reader to move back and forth cross referencing items. It is highly recommended for those who feel that too much \\"Clinton bashing\\" has been taking place lately. He deserves much more censure than he has received; in fact, he has gotten away with most of his misdeeds.	2001-02-20
US	53006845	R2L8GKQLUPN0P4	0020322208	845900804	The Art of Eating	Books	5	69	71	N	N	In the Kitchen, by fermed	There are two types of cookbooks: those that you consult in order to learn how to prepare a specific dish (squid in its ink, for example) and those that you read when you are not in the kitchen and then allow to settle in your brain for a little while, and from which you decide, in time, to prepare something special. \\"The Joy of Cooking\\" is of the first type, the \\"Art of Eating\\" of the second kind.<br />There are two types of cookbook authors: those who did not follow a drive to become apothecaries and instead wound up in a kitchen. Now they issue a prescriptive formulary of carefully controlled measures, procedures, times, weights, and ingredients (no substitutions, please) in precise, neat, humorless texts: recipes by edict, if you will; and those who under other circumstances would have become poets or novelists, but instead wound up in the kitchen, from whence they issue lyrical prose as well as exquisite dishes. Their recipes are often vague, permissive, infuriating, but tolerant of errors. There are many who fit the first category and few (MFK Fisher among them) the second.<br />There are two ways of comparing cookbooks: by following recipes for highly complex dishes (beef Wellington, say) and tasting the results, or by following extremely simple recipes from each book and making gustatory comparisons (scrambled eggs, for instance). Scrambled eggs, according to general culinary wisdom, requires that eggs be beaten together \\"until the white and yolks are completely combined\\" (Joy of Cooking) or to be whisked briskly (Fanny Farmer).<br />Ms. Fisher starts by addressing the state of mind of the cook before embarking in the scrambling of the eggs: \\"This concotion\\" she comments \\"is obviously a placid one, never to be attempted by a nervous, harried [person], one anxious to slap something on the table and get it over with...I love this recipe, for its very gentleness, and for the demands it makes upon one's patience, and the homage it deserves from its slow tasting.\\"<br />I have used her recipe many times, and my guests become awestruck by the results. I cook the eggs even slower than she suggests (it takes me at least 45 minutes or even a little longer, when she recommends 30 minutes). You and your guests will never want to eat beaten scrambled eggs, ever again, after tasting MFK Fisher's version of this dish.<br />If you ever cook, do read this book.	2001-02-19
US	53006845	RX4QJ1M2WQO29	1582430977	373175325	A Woman Unknown: Voices from a Spanish Life	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Complex and Beautiful, by fermed	This is an extraordinary book written by the daughter of one of my favorite writers: Robert Graves (I, Claudius; Goodby to All That). Her prose is lyrical, near poetical. She is truly a woman of letters, a careful crafter of complex and beautiful writing.<br />It is the story of her life, written not as biography, but more as a long letter to a friend. Her presentation is not necessarily chronological, not necessarily sequential, but always emotionally rich and revealing of the construction of her soul, layer by layer, starting as a child. If the facts of the book skip around, her development from child to young lady to mother to divorcee to woman in love does not vary from its relentless order. Without attempting to be so, it is a truly feminist tract lacking bitterness or resentments.<br />I found some extraordinary parallels between Lucia's childhood and mine, even if they don't include gender: I too moved to Majorca as a small child, learned the local language (Mallorquín)and so became trilingual with English and Spanish, attended elementary school with nuns, knew the landscape around where Lucia lived, and thus was immediately able to recognize a beach she describes as one I had ofted bathed in (Sóller). These coincidences -of which there are many more- biased me in favor of her book instantly, and perhaps rendered the reading of her work a different and more satisfying experience than it will be to the average reader who has never been to this island; on the positive side, my experience allows me to certify to Ms. Graves's extraordinary capacity to describe the feel, color and culture of the island. She does this better than any other writer I have ever encountered who attempted to speak about Mallorca. The true universalism of her book, however, lies in the description of her interior development, and that is what this work is finally all about. I recommend it highly.	2001-01-17
US	53006845	RDUWLVHYX7SYQ	0375410287	138494613	Driving Over Lemons: An Optimist in Andalucia	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Moving to Andalusia: A fantasy Accomplished, by fermed	The theme is an old one: A move from the more civilized (England, US) to the less civilized (Tuscany, Provence, Greek Islands, Spain). Escape from the onerous burdens of civilized life and go to some remote and forsaken corner of the world, were you suddenly find yourself unable to cope with the simplicities of life. The beauty of the people and their kindness; their amusement at your bumbling efforts to adapt to their world, and their common sense about all things, which seems to have abandoned you. It has all been done before, each time a little differently, each time creating a vicarious escape from the humdrum of everyday life that delights the arm chair dreamers. It is a genre, and when it is well done (like this one is) it means a few hours of exotic delights that leave a good taste in your mouth afterwards, and a new set of fantasies to explore. <br />It is a book of that kind, friendly, humorous, easy to read. An English couple buy a ramshackle farm in the hinterlands of Southern Spain. No running water, practically no electricity (solar pannels, and not many of those), no telephone, no TV. Rugged, untidy land full of demands. They plant their gardens, they buy and raise sheep, they have a baby. Surrounded by memorable characters that bring warth and depth to the action. A simple, unpretentious book as satisfying as a meal of meat and potatoes. With a large glass of local wine.	2001-01-14
US	53006845	R3KY7JPXFG64HV	0679451226	809423063	The Sibley Guide to Birds	Books	5	1	2	N	N	The Willow Ptarmigan goes: poDAYdopoDAYdo...by fermed	I am not a bird watcher. In my system, birds are classified as \\"large, medium, and small,\\" and in the field I may notice a blue one, or one that is yellow, if I notice any of them at all. My only serious experience that involved gazing upon these animals was on Machias Island, when the puffins were breading. One does not, of course, see the actual breeding episodes, but there are puffins galore there, doing all sorts of things. The Canadian wildlife service maintains little blinds from which you can get pictures of puffins to your heart's content, and that is exactly what I did. That one day experience both initiated and brought to a close my bird watching career. <br />Why then would I review this beautiful book about feathered beasties, and even compare it to other birding books? I became interested in bird guides after reading a book (which I reviewed for Amazon) called \\"Clear and Simple as the Truth: Writing Classical Prose.\\" The authors, Francis-Noel Thomas and Mark Turner, cite the description of the Northen shrike found in the Audubon Society Field Guide to North American Birds, Eastern Edition, as an example of classic prose. And it surely is that, as are the rest of the entries in this excellent book. I bought that book, and then I got Peterson's \\"A Field Guide to Birds,\\" which is a classic in birding literature. As some people say about Playboy, I bought these books for the writing in them, not the pictures.<br />I found the Sibley book very pleasing to look at, with the pictures as clear and as beautiful as Peterson's, perhaps even better. I will leave that for the experts to decide.The writing is also pleasing, but not as convincing as the Field Guide. In matters of fine prose, I would rank the Field Guide (Bull & Farrand)as the best of my three books, followed by Sibley and then Peterson's.<br />Take, for example, the treatment of the euphonic Willow Ptarmigan. All three books attempt to describe these bird's voices, and here is how they do it:<br />Peterson's claims that their sounds are a \\"deep raucus calls, 'go-out, go-out' and that the male has staccato crow: 'know, know, tobacco, tobacco,' etc., or 'go-back, go-back.'\\"<br />Sibley says that the male in display gives comical, nasal, barking calls in series 'goBEK, goBEK, goBEK, poDaydopoDaydo...\\" and a smoothly accelerating laugh.<br />The Field Guide reports: \\"In flight, courting males have a loud staccato 'go-back, go-back,' and other guttural calls.\\"<br />There it is: succint, quick, with a little detail that is missing from the others: the sound takes place while the male is in flight. Even though an outsider, I can tell that all three books are very fine. For prose I must give the Field Guide an A+, but certainly the other two deserve A's; and I did appreciate Sibley's \\"smoothly accelerating laugh.\\"	2001-01-10
US	53006845	R1XF9WO62JU8XE	0802713661	446043681	Brunelleschi's Dome: How a Renaissance Genius Reinvented Architecture	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Marvelous Little Book, by fermed	This exquisite book has two distinct aspects which need to be rated separately. The first has to do with the descriptions of the physics and...mechanics...  the book rates five stars plus. <br />The second aspect of the book has to do with the emotional and psychological portraits of the cast of characters of this curious little book. Somehow the author does not render the people of the story very well: they never seem to come alive, remaining distant, two-dimensional, unreachable. For this aspect the book rates three stars.<br />...this book is irresistible.	2001-01-06
US	53006845	R3FW1EE1UF59ZH	0811825558	979162178	The Worst-Case Scenario Survival Handbook	Books	4	3	3	N	N	W. Mitty, Here I Come! by fermed	This is a very funny book. Can't tell whether in each case the authors are serious or not (they seem to be); but what they have put out is grist to the mill for all the Walter Mitty's out there. No sooner had I picked up the book that I realized my pilot was dead...and I cound't fly the plane. I immediately pulled him away and took his seat at the controls. I signaled MAYDAY and requested landing instructions and soon a voice was guiding me into a flawless landing. <br />As I was walking away from the plane, I spied a mountain lion on a promontory near my path. He looked ready to jump at me. I immediately unzipped my safari jacket and held its flaps open in order to make myself appear much larger than I really am, exactly as the book recommends on page 54. The cougar took a look, wimpered, and fled. <br />I was approaching a hangar nearby when I saw a man in distress. He was lying on the ground, passed out, probably from an obstruction in his throat. I tried the Heimlich maneuver three times (as the book recommends, p. 88) but it did not help and I soon realized that an emergency tracheotomy was in order. I reached for my faithful (and very sharp) Buck pocket knife , and after finding the indentation between the Adam's apple and the cricoid cartilage, I swiftly made a half inch long, half inch deep, horizontal incision at that point. I created a tube by ripping the yellow cover off my \\"The Worst Case Scenario,\\" rolling it to fit into the incision. The man soon started breathing. Oh, the joy of it all!<br />Since then I have fended off a shark attack, delivered a baby in a taxicab, and survived an avalanche. All of those things and many more are there for you to enjoy. Just hope that you never start choking near a reader of this book.	2001-01-05
US	53006845	R357WJMT2R6KO7	0140263780	784561868	Liberal Racism: How Liberals Got Race Wrong; How America Can Get It Right	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Race, Liberals and Hypocrisy, by fermed	This is a smooth book that goes about its business with devastating efficiency. The book neither shouts nor even exclaims. It is quiet and non-confrontational, all the better to send shivers down one's spine. The ffect it can have on liberals is shown by reading the critique by \\"A Reader from New York:\\" this person is all ad hominem, wishing that \\"Liberal Racism\\" will be the author's last book and that he will be drummed out of journalism forever; the reviewer has nothing to say about the content of the book, perhaps because such content is unassailable. If, as a person with common sense, you are frequently irritated by the mushy reasoning of liberal friends, this is the book you should consider giving them. In its quietly unassuming way it will save you from attacks of fury and high blood pressure and keep your friendhip intact.	2000-12-28
US	53006845	RVLSWIJ6GDTPE	1859843107	633530051	Dearest Pet: On Bestiality	Books	4	33	42	N	N	Beyond Petting, by fermed	The subject of sexual congress between human and beast is heavy stuff. It moves sexuality to a higher (or lower, have your pick) dimension, for the object of lust is not another human, or an inanimate object, but a living oprganism capable of its own pleasures and lust. Crossing interspecies barriers is not something to be taken lightly.<br />All religions and most political systems are very displeased with the notion of man-beast sexual congress. Not so long ago, conviction of such an activity would lead to burning at the stake. Bestiality has intrinsic gravitas.<br />The book by Midas Dekkers is best defined in terms of what it is not: certainly it is not a \\"how to\\" book, nor is it an erotic or lascivious tract. Even is many illustrations lack eroticism. The book leaves most things involving the actual coupling up to the reader's imagination. Nor is it a scientific tract, nor a survey, nor a sexology book. It covers art, and history, and plenty of gossip. Things of that nature; so if the potential reader is seeking a perverse little jolt, this book is not the way of obtaining it.<br />It explains, in passing, that the most frequent human-animal contacts occur between male and beast; that the woman-animal connection is fairly rare but yet appears more frequently in art and literature than the male-beast duo. The explanation for this is that until recently women were poorly represented as artists and writers, and therefore it was men who defined the acts and perhaps ventilated their fantasies in the process. The many portrayals of Leda and the swan attest to this. The swan, incidentaly, was Zeus in disguise.... Now there is an example of the little gems of information that abound in the book....<br />Mankind's sexual apetite crosses all species that will accommodate the architecture involved, from chickens to eels, from apes to elephants. The reader would certainly like to know a little more about the mechanics involved, but the book is reticent about such matters.<br />\\"Dearest Pet\\" is a translation from the Dutch. It contain a bibliography heavily weighted with German and Dutch entries, and a fair index that itemizes the wide variety of playmates mentioned in the book, from Airdales to zebras.	2000-12-28
US	53006845	R24FU013W7W2XH	0805063579	980137608	Author Unknown: On the Trail of Anonymous	Books	4	0	0	N	N	You Are How You Write, by fermed	The notion that a writer can be identified by his language usage and style is not new: centuries of research on Shakespeare (a favorite of literary sleuths), on the Bible and on literary fragments of one sort or another have yielded a mixed bag of results which, nevertheless, confirm that writing behavior follows the peculiar idiosyncrasies of each writer. The problem, of course, was the intense labor involved in implementing this type of analysis; years, perhaps even a life time, had to be sacrificed to the tedious work of culling and mining the prose in the hope that it would yield up its secrets: patterns, usage, number of words, peculiarities of phrasing, the rhythms, tones and density of the writing.<br />Then the desktop computer made this type of analysis child's play. Now texts could be scanned into the computer, and a search engine would instantly (almost) find what you wanted. What you sought were the stylistic peculiarities common to the text under analysis and common also to the writing of the person you thought might have written it. For instance, you might seek to know the number of times an author starts his sentences with \\"And.\\" Just ask the computer. Mr. Foster did precisely that. When he was assigned the task of finding the author of \\"Primary Colors\\" (who called himself \\"Anonymous\\") he noted some of the peculiarities of the text, which inluded the frequent starting of sentences with \\"And\\" and the habit of - \\"frequently\\" - bracketing adverbs and adverbial phrases between dashes. Then he analyzed the prose of potential candidates, taken from a pool of reporters who had covered the Clinton election, and which was thought to surely contain the author of \\"Primary Colors.\\" When one of them, Joe Kline, showed the same peculiarities found in the book, Foster concluded that he must be the one. And he was.<br />Had to book limited itself to two stories: Foster's doctoral disertation, in which he argued that a heretofore poem by \\"W.S.\\" is in fact a poem by William Shakespeare, and his successful determination that the \\"Anonymous\\" author of \\"Primary Colors\\" was in fact Joe Kline, the work would have been riveting. Short, but riveting; and certainly not enought to flesh out a book. The rest of the material, including a long essay centered on Ted Kaczynski, and another, based on the \\"real\\" author of \\"The Night Before Christmas\\" tended to be tedious and highly skipable.<br />I suspect that only those with a true passion for the English language will enjoy this work. Others, especially those who are descendants of Clement Moore (and who have surely told everyone in creation that their great-great-great ancestor penned the famous \\"Twas the night before Christmas...\\") might become very angry at Mr. Foster for disturbing the peace. Yet others will be bored by the whole process of linguistic analysis. The book is well referenced with a long biography, and has an adequate index. In the end the book makes its point: you are how you write.	2000-12-26
US	53006845	R32HYJ1O358EBQ	1842220543	364629362	Art Of Optical Illusions	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A Brilliant Collection, by fermed	Al Seckel has done a wonderful job of assembling this great collection of visual illusions. It is lavishly illustrated - mostly one illusion per page - with the majority in full color, allowing the reader a generous view of the eye-teasing pictures. Some are classical illusions, redesigned and improved, and others were brand new to me. The accompanying text is concise and helpful.<br />A sensory illusion is essentially a deception in which physical stimuli are arranged in such a way as to make them appear different from what they really are. It is a form of cheating the senses through appearances. But why would anyone be interested in such distortions?<br />Painters, of course, were the first professionals to make full use of visual deception by making our eyes believe that when we are looking at their two-dimensional canvasses we are seeing a thre-dimensional world. They cheated our eyes (and our brains too) into contributing \\"depth\\" to their flat works. Velazquez's great \\"Las Meninas\\" is the prototype of how optical illusions can be elevated to great art.<br />But there is much more to it than that: decorators, designers, psychologists, philosophers (Aristotle was intrigued by the sensory illusion, illustrated in this book, in which a person \\"senses\\" that they have two noses), engineers, children, physicians, and the generally curious should take some time to be entertained by by these figures, for illusions can be a wellspring to unexpected creativity.<br />Recently V. S. Ramachandran, a physician and neuroscientist, started using optical illusions to control the intractable pain experienced by amputees in their missing limbs. His book is called \\"Phantoms in the Brain.\\" Ah, you may say, how can it be possible for a hand that no longer exists to create an itch (an unscratchable itch, of course) or a pain, or even a sensation in the amputee? Ell, it does, to the extent that some amputees are driven to suicide by their intractable illusions of pain and itch and discomfort in their non-exiting limbs. Ramachandran combats one sensory illusion (of pain) with a visual illusion of an existing hand, and amazingly teaches the victims of \\"phantom\\" limbs how to obtain relief that way.<br />Personally, I bought this volume to give to a young friend for her 10th birthday. This book (and a ruler) will teach her that things in this world are frequently not the way they appear to be. She might as well learn that bit of scientific intelligence as soon as possible.	2000-11-02
US	53006845	RRY5H23DO1PUS	1587990024	85864531	Absolut: Biography of a Bottle	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Messy Book, by fermed	What could have (should have) been the intriguing history of the Absolut bottle and its contents of Swedish vodka, turns out to be a disorganized compendium that includes so much dull extraneous material that at least this reader was forced to abandon the book several times, only to return to it out of a sense of duty. Not, certainly, out of love for good writing.<br />The material in this book, carefully trimmed, might have made a single excellent article of the old New Yorker variety. Instead the book contains a forest of irrelevancies into which the reader is dumped, promptly to get lost. When, at last, the \\"biography of a bottle\\" is addressed, it comes in fits and starts that may be entertaining to an adman, but not to the general reader. <br />Not recommended for those with a low threshold for boredom. Are there no longer book editors plying their trade?	2000-10-26
US	53006845	RTGCM7RDZ8WPT	0679769560	310296472	Different Loving: The World of Sexual Dominance and Submission	Books	4	21	25	N	N	Dominance and Submission, by fermed	This book attempts to present the question of erotic domination and submission in a dry, even puritanical, fashion. As a result it is often humorless and tedious. It is understandibly difficult, of course, to maintain a light touch while trying to explain how being urinated upon can be a joyful and erotic event.<br />And yet this is an important book. It contains the statements of practitioners of the various sexual modalities described, explaining the erotic derivatives that attend these voluntary exchanges of power. Many of the speakers describe their backgrounds and the childhood experiences which might lie at the root of their sexual interests; they explain how such sexual interactions make them feel. This is likely to be a useful book for those who have cravings along the behaviors described, but who lack either the courage or the opportunity to actualize their fantasies. The book will offer such people a reassuring reading experience which in turn may guide them towards satisfying their urges. It is also a good book for those engaged in counseling others, for it gives many insights into the dynamics, mechanics, and social expression of this type of sexuality. <br />\\"Different Loving\\" consists of 26 chapters that cover from the expected topics (bondage, spanking) to the lesser known or understood behaviors (golden showers, enemas). It has a fair bibliography and chapter notes, but no index. It is a good reference book, but not something one would want to sit down and read from cover to cover as a form of entertainment. Which it is not.	2000-10-25
US	53006845	R1611HEJ7MJ6D8	0684853523	44310359	On Writing:  A Memoir of the Craft	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Craftsman's Skill Exposed, by fermed	First a disclaimer: I have never read any of Stephen King's fiction, and never seen a movie based on his writing, either. And so I was quite neutral to his merits as a writer when I picked up this book. Having read it I shall probably start on his fiction soon.<br />I am partial to people who have outstanding skills and who are willing to tell how they go about doing whatever it is that they do, and what meaning their skills have to them. I doesn't much matter what the activity is about (playing the yo-yo, or lifting a very heavy weight, or making music); to be told about the training, the devotion to the task, the sacrifices involved, the joys, the pain, and the acquisition of the special skills involved is to listen to the essence of what a human being is all about; and I love to hear about such essence.<br />When the outstanding skill concerns something that we all know how to do but which has been taken to levels beyond comprehension, hearing about it can be breath-taking. We all know how to whistle, more or less. But to listen to a concert whistler (called a \\"siffleur\\") puts that act in a different realm; and it is a joy to hear the story and the problems of a siffleur. That brings us to writers who write about writing, which is what Mr. King does in this book, and which, like whistling, concerns something we all know how to do, more or less.<br />I would best describe the experience of reading this book as spending a wonderful evening listening to a man who knows a lot about things we know only a little: writing sentences; building paragraphs; weaving a story; expressing ourselves; describing the truth; communicating. He occupies our space as a likable, funny, obviously thoughtful, and talented person. A very intelligent one, too. In a simple and personable way he tells us what he does, what his writing quirks are, and about his life and the things he has encountered while living it. The book is a total joy because his voice and attitude are so plain, informative and entertaining.<br />Will this book help people become better writers? Probably so, even though it is not a \\"how to\\" book. Reading it is a fine experience; and just as spending time with a great juggler, or a scientist, or a musician can be awe inspiring, an evening with Stephen King is an enrichment not to be missed.	2000-10-17
US	53006845	R377ZFMXQU2LSX	068486729X	542492386	One Good Turn: A Natural History of the Screwdriver and the Screw	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Small Perfection, by fermed	This book is a delight. It has to do, in part, with screws and screwdrivers, not very exciting or even interesting themes on the face of it; but there is much more to this slender volume than just that. The genesis of the book was an assignment from an editor at the New York Times to write an article about the best tool of the millennium. Eyeglasses were, in Mr. Ribczynski's estimation, the most important tool of the period; but the editor was not interested in appliances or technological innovation, but in simple tools: the things one holds in one's hand to do, say, carpentry. Thus came the notion to the author (prompted by his wife) to consider the screwdriver and the screw as the premier tools of the millennium. <br />The printing press, the wine presses, lathes, water elevators, on and on the parade of practical helixes related to the screw (both in the last and previous millennia) is displayed in this little book. Well planned, extremely precise (as the screw itself should be), scholarly, and containing many explanatory line drawings, the book is a joy. I think that Henry Petroski's book \\"The Pencil\\" opened the door to this kind of writing: a commonplace, relatively insignificant object is brought under microscopic scrutiny as to its history and evolution; what emerges is a magnified picture of not only the object itself, but of mankind in its eternal struggle for small perfections. This book, in its own way, is one of these small perfections.	2000-10-05
US	53006845	R23X0FE5M04URK	1558505342	868575607	American Sex Machines: The Hidden History of Sex at the U.S. Patent Office	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Yankee Ingenuity, by fermed	The book's cover and its title are unfortunate: they give this work the appearance of something steamy or sexually alluring, when in fact it is a carefully researched and serious work of great general interest. Hoag Levins investigated the Patent Office for inventions having to do with devices involving the human sex organs and copulation. The author combed the archives and found more than 800 inventions pertaining to the subject. The book organizes these inventions in terms of general categories, and in the process shows how the Patent Office reflects the social preoccupation of the times. Starting with a profusion of devices aimed at stopping maturbation (a nineteenth century obsession) it covers the field up to the current flurry of AIDS-inspired protection devices such as oral condoms and condom garnments. In between is a truly extraordinary display of Yankee inventiveness, as well as a slightly insane (if not downright dangerous) group of contrivances designed to enhance erections, stimulate nipples, exercise muscles, or defend against rapists. The latter includes a vaginal device that would inject a quick-acting anesthetic into the unwanted intruded penis of a violator.<br />The book is scholarly and enlightening. For instance, the history of the brassiere is detailed and concise; it breaks away from the urban myths and other nonsense pertaining to the invention of this device and presents and erudite account of the bra, from its early inception as a chest compression device to its current post-feminist status. The book contains a section of chapter notes describing the source material and additional readings, and it has a good index. The book is written with grace and humor and leaves the reader well informed, if not enlightened.	2000-10-05
US	53006845	R32DIB4H8YA9KN	0375406328	449261090	Lying Awake	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Masterpiece in Miniature, by fermed	This is an extraordinary little book, perhaps destined to become a classic. Its purity (of language, of thought, or narrative) is so intense that it forces upon the reader the type of esthetic shock that is usually associated with brief and unexpected moments (a heron rising, the breach of a whale, a flash of lightning in the night sky); but here the experience lasts a couple of hours and leaves the reader drained and exhausted and exhilarated. Certainly it should be assigned reading for those with writing ambitions, for it is an exemplar of what fiction is capable of being: a troubling, intense, beautiful experience that is likely to change the reader. Surely for the better.<br />A contemplative nun's supplications for closeness to God are finally answered after many years of silence, prayer, discipline and obedience. She has an outpouring of poetry, of religious intimacy, of incredible sensory experiences, and of sublime spiritual ecstasy. Is it God himself who is acting upon her or is it the small tumor growing in her right temporal lobe that is responsible for her experiences? Should she allow an operation that might rob her of her vivid interactions with God and of her poetical soul? Mark Salzman's hand is so very steady and authoritative in drawing this marvelous picture of a soul in conflict, that the many-layered portrait he produces is simply breathtaking.	2000-10-03
US	53006845	R5HTZ1NU626JM	0060195185	426668709	The Great Arc: The Dramatic Tale of How India was Mapped and Everest was Named	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Fine Madness, by fermed	This is the story of the Great Trigonometrical Survey, a nineteenth century project the purpose of which was to measure India - for scientific, but more importantly, for colonization reasons; that the plan did in fact succeed is utterly amazing when the nature of the problems involved is considered.<br />On paper it appears easy enough: triangulation uses Pythagorean theorems, in which if one knows the length of one side of a triangle, and the angles at which the other sides join it, the length of each of the other sides and the area enclosed by the triangle can be exactly calculated; then, using one of the calculated sides as the base for a new triangle, a second triangle can be calculated, and upon this one, another, and another, to infinity. The problem is the such plane geometry is lovely to look at, and to work with, on a piece of paper and in two dimensions, but very difficult to calculate over curved space containing mountains and valleys, tigers, yellow fever, monsoons and vast distances. The survey intended to measure India's length and its width. Named the Great Arc, the main trunk of the survey extended from the Southern tip of the subcontinent to the foothills of the Himalayas, about 1600 miles. It took forty years to complete.<br />It required extremely precise measurements, at times using a microscope to calibrate the instruments, and at times using telescopes to find the flag or the signal on which to focus the instruments, maybe forty miles away. In use was a huge theodolite (a surveying instrument) that weighed half a ton and had to be carried in its wooden box by fifteen men. Literaly thousands of people perished on the project: accidents, tigers, scorpions, snakes, and assorted fevers took their toll.<br />It is the story of William Lambton who initiated the project and died in the process, and of George Everest, who completed it. They were entirely different in character and outlook, but the passion to complete the mad project was equally strongin both. The book reads like a good novel, and one does not need to know math or trig to fully enjoy the narrative and understand the scientific issues involved. The book is hard to put down and is highly recommended for those who like true adventure stories and lively world history.	2000-09-27
US	53006845	R287YUXT6F9LHL	0156495406	849823787	Lectures on Don Quixote	Books	5	52	83	N	N	A Breath of Fresh Air, by fermed	What Nabokov does to that venerable Don Q. is to rip it apart, disembowel it, resect the viscera, muscle and bones, and demonstrate how it has all been fitted together, how its various part work and (more importantly) how and why some parts don't work at all.<br />I admit to having had a life-long aversion to Don Q., an aversion that is rooted in early efforts to make me read \\"children's versions\\" of the book by guise of educating me. I suspect that such dislike is widely shared by those who have dared attempt the original text, or even its modern translations. Those who love the story are likely to have limited their sampling to the musical version of the book: \\"Man of La Mancha.\\"<br />And so it was truly a pleasure to follow Nabokov in his extraordinary feat of dissection. Nobody in nearly 400 years of Spanish critical appraisals of this awful book has ever come close to exposing the work as thoroughly and meticulously as Nabokov does in the six lectures that he gave at Harvard in 1952. Spanish critics of Cervantes are mainly hagiographers, incapable of noting the Emperor's nakedness. They are apt to compare Cervantes to Shakespeare (don't they wish!), a comparion which Nabokov insightfully reduces to this:<br />\\"The only matter in which Cervantes and Shakespeare are equals is the matter of influence, of spiritual irrigation -- I have in view the long shadow cast upon receptive posterity of a created image which may continue to live independently from the book itself. Shakespeare's plays, however, will continue to live apart from the shadow they project.\\" By implication, Don Q. would not.<br />Nabokov even exposes the canard, much repeated in Spain, that Cervantes and Shakespeare died on the same day in 1616. They did not. It is true that each died on April 23 of that year, but they lived in different calendars, with a ten day gap between their true dates of defunction. <br />Before embarking on his lectures, Nabokov abstracted each of the 126 chapters of the twovolumes, citing their essential elements. These abstracts are included in the book. In addition, he surveyed the work noting Don Q's \\"victories\\" and \\"defeats,\\" a monumental task which lays bare each of his encounters and battles (40 all told), each scored as a \\"victory\\" or a \\"defeat.\\" He comments, in amazement, about one critic who had said \\"Never, by any chance, does Don Quixote win.\\"<br />Not so. When all the battles are added up the score is precisely 20/20. Don Q. won as many as he lost. <br />When Nabokov called this \\"one of the most bitter and barbarous books even penned\\" it did not gain him friends among the professional academics of the ivory towers; but the observation is true and constitutes one of the many explanatory notes about the book that allows the readers to understand their dislike (if they have a dislike) for this work. <br />Only six lectures. One of the great anatomical feats by that wizard Nabokov. It is not necessary to know the Qixote in order to enjoy this tour de force; in addition, anyone who writes fiction will love (and benefit from) the type of deep structural analysis to which Nobokov subjects this novel. Nabokov's handywork is a beautiful excercise in education \\"as it should be,\\" and therefore it is worth the time and effort to read it.	2000-08-28
US	53006845	R2IZLD0ZVLJY7D	0520014111	191779427	Augustine of Hippo: A Biography	Books	5	14	15	N	N	A Superb Biography, by fermed	Peter Brown is like a very caring, scholarly and slightly eccentric tutor, of the type grown and revered in England's ancient universities. As a non-scholar on the subject of Augustine and his time, I approached this book wearily, expecting to be ignobly defeated by the middle of, say, chapter two. But such was not the case. My smattering about Augustine, about his Manichaeism, about his saintly mother, Monica, about his \\"Confessions\\" and about his conversion by St. Ambrose, all rusty remnants of a fine (but wasted) education, were revived and even rejuvenated by Mr. Brown. His words coaxed ancient neurons to make dendritic connections with their neighbors, so that towards the middle of this longish book I was dealing confidently with Fourth century institutions and had become familiar with some of the philosophical issues that plaged the early Christians. This is Brown:<br /> \\"A stranger from the provinces [Augustine] would, of course, go to church to find a girl-friend, much as another stranger, the Genoese, Christopher Columbus, will meet his wife in Seville Cathedral.\\"<br />And about Augustine's desire to seek his fortune as a rethoritian in Milan:<br /> \\"He would have been like a Westernized Russian in the nineteenth century, established in Paris.\\"<br />This ability to move back and forth in time to clarify his points is one of the many joys of reading Brown. He is also a master of the right anecdote and of the enlightening \\"obscure\\" fact. For instance, he tells us that in the Fourth century the image of Christ was that of a teacher, a philosopher. There were no crucifixes in the Fourth century, and the concept of the suffering Savior did not exist. <br />The book is as satisfying as a plentiful and well prepared meal, and like a meal, it is to be consumed slowly and respectfully. Brown makes you trust him about his deep knowledge of the years immediately preceding the sack of Rome and the fall of the empire. He does this, over and over, by his ease with the trivial details and by the depth with which he addresses the important ones. A very fine book for the reference shelf, to read once and to return to frequently.	2000-08-24
US	53006845	R2GBCV91EOZK7Y	1859847730	513688777	The Holocaust Industry: Reflections on the Exploitation of Jewish Suffering	Books	5	11	14	N	N	An Angry Man's Excoriation, by fermed	Normal Finkelstein meets the criteria as a speaker and critic on the subject of the Nazi holocaust: both his parents (now dead) survived the Warsaw Ghetto and the Nazi concentration camps. All other relatives, on both sides of his family, perished in Nazi hands. Finkelstein is a scholar, a teacher, and a proud bearer of his Jewishness; he is also a very angry man. <br />The object of his fury is his perception of how the Nazi holocaust has been made the object of politics, of cheap grandiosity, of power mongering, and of the abuse and exploitation of those who truly suffered in the hands of their tormentors. He minces no words: \\"The Holocaust industry has become an outright extortion racket;\\" one chapter is called \\"Hoaxers, Huckesters and History,\\" and another \\"The Double Shakedown.\\" He names names, and organizations, and dates in his indictment of this \\"Industry.\\" He backs his words with citations and references, as a good scholar should.<br />I was horrified to read the details. People whose names and lives have become identified as living icons of holocaust suffering (such as Eli Weisel) are depicted here with all their bumps and their blemishes and as having little interest in the poor Jewish survivors who remain. <br />It is unfortunate that this book will not rectify the corruption attending the Hollocaust Industry generally. More likely it will be taken directly by the anti-Semites to be used as fuel for their insatiable hatred and bigotry. It is admirable that one angry man can yell his righteous indignation against the abuses he perceives; but for that, please don't call him a self-hating Jew: he is nothing of the sort. I only wish many level headed Jews and Gentiles would listen to him so that what he depicts might be corrected.<br />This book is highly recommended. It has no index or bibliography, and its many citations in the footnotes cannot substitute for them. Such a lack, in this computer age, is unacceptable for a scholarly work, which this book is.For the absent index the book loses one star.	2000-08-24
US	53006845	R1ISD3KW6PKX0C	0151006261	582044302	Under the Skin	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Loveless and Solitary, by fermed	This is a first novel by a gifted writer. He has a marvelous eye for detail and mood, and his brushwork in blending tone and line and color is magnificent. Even though the mixing of science fiction characters (aliens) who are operating in realistic but covert interactions with human beings and their society has been done many times before, Mr. Faber's mixture is unusually inventive, and he pulls it off with skill and craftmanship.<br />But lost among all the technical virtuosity of this book are the very fundamentals of successful fiction. In this case there is no appealing character who is made to experience change as a result of the events in the narrative. The reader cannot identify with the protagonist or even like her very much, for she is a loveless and solitary creature without a single warm cell in her surgically deformed body. The action that occurs is grotesque rather than exciting, and it is not revealing of deeper truths or of transcendental insights; a fine novel demands such rewards for the reader in order to justify itself. And yet...the sheer virtuosity of the writing engages us intellectually so that we keep postponing putting down the book to the next page, and then to the next chapter, and then we surely must finish it. And after it ends, we cannot close it off, for it keeps reverberating in memory much more than expected. <br />I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book, and do recommend it. Still, I have read some of the dreadful reviews others have given it, and I can understand why they responded as they did. Taste is variable and unpredictable, and this novel is not without its faults. Please sample the first chapter, which is posted. It will give you a fair taste of what is to follow.	2000-08-23
US	53006845	R2FYX0O78M7RS2	0060193921	918268191	State of a Union: Inside the Complex Marriage of Bill and Hillary Clinton	Books	5	1	1	N	N	To Understand is To Forgive? To Indulge?, by fermed	Said Madame Staël: \\"To understand everything makes one very forgiving.\\" This is a book about understanding -or trying to understand- the psychosocial roots of our First Dysfunctional Family. It takes us back to their childhood and their families; but whether such information sponsors tolerance and forgiveness is debatable. Some will find this pair just as despicable after reading about their background as they did before arriving at such knowledge. Others, of course, may react differently.<br />The writing is excellent, and not at all what one would expect from a former correspondent from the tabloids. Jerry Oppenheimer is careful about his writing craft, and his views are moderate, well balanced and fair. He documents profusely, and is in good control of his material at all times.<br />For some, the careful disclosure of Bill and Hillary's background may lead to an understanding of what drives them, and thus to a greater acceptance of them (or, maybe of one but not of the other). Some readers will find in the Clinton's background the reason and justification for their astonishing vulgarity, the crudity of thought and temperament that they share, and their remarkable mendacity. In any event, this is a non-partisan and honest book that, despite its subject matter, is neither salacious nor obscene. The book contains a good index and it is well referenced. Highly recommended for those not yet satiated by this subject matter.	2000-08-17
US	53006845	R1TL6JHU1UME2L	0922915571	642760150	Apocalypse Culture II	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Walk On The Wild Side, by fermed	Adam Parfrey has put together his second volume of what he delicately calls \\"the extreme societal tendrils\\" of our culture. Volume II is even finer than the first volume: bigger, more varied and with greater depth.<br />So what have we got here? From the banal : descriptions of the exquisitely realistic female sex dolls, with orifices (it is said) more pleasure-giving than the real thing, for a mere $5,750.00 plus shipping. From the horrendous: satanism, the sexual vicitimization of children, necrophilia. From the in-between: a writing by Ted Kaczynsky (a rather dull fantasy); Danny Rolling (the Gainesville serial murderer)contributes a letter and a painting from death row; Sondra London has a short, thoughtful piece about \\"Murder Light,\\" and Jim Goad writes a piece justifying (he thinks) the brutal beating of his girl friend. Jim wrote a very funny and intelligent \\"Redneck Manifesto,\\" which I reviewed not so long ago. He wrote the Apocalypse piece from the Oregon State Penitentiary, where he resides on account of the above mentioned violence.<br />This book is full of asperities and venom and razor-sharp protrusions. It is guaranteed to scrape and not to sooth. I cannot think of any normal (or abnormal) person who will not bleed a bit, here and there, just from browsing this book. With that warning, it is highly recommended. 60 articles, lots of pictures, 457 pages.	2000-08-10
US	53006845	R1B30XPUUHEG6D	0140157085	351664366	In Praise of the Stepmother	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Erotic Wonder, by fermed	This book has so much beauty and sheer writing virtuosity that it must stand separate and alone. Like the Chaconne, or the suites for unaccompanied cello, or Shakespeare's sonnets, this book takes your breath away.<br />An integral part of the narrative are the six paintings (handsome reproductions of world art by Fra Angelico and Francis Bacon, among others) which are woven as counterpoint to the storyline. Nowhere in literature does one encounter such a masterful and extraordinary melding of two art forms: it produces a delectable, erotic, and frightening little masterpiece. <br />It is a story of lust, love, revenge, of Eros, of sexual awakening, and of the punctilious attention to one's body parts. It can be spiritual or gross, refined or vulgar, hilarious or tragic, depending on who you are, how you look at it, and the mood you are in. Every time I have read it (five, so far) it has again shocked, and delighted and made me humble by the sheer force of its beauty. The flawless translation by Helen Lane detracts not one iota from the Spanish original. Of course you should read it.	2000-07-26
US	53006845	R2VPN56AGLLJ88	0375411445	435436234	American Rhapsody	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Olympian Revenge, by fermed	This book's central theme and its execution is of breathtaking vulgarity. It is focused on things below the waist, at the level of the male and female sex organs. The book attempts to be funny, and sophisticated, and very with it; but its vulgarity is so overpowering that the other matters it touches are easily lost. <br />Those of us who have been deeply offended by the near continuous degradation of the office of the presidency by its present occupant cannot help but notice how well this cheap excess of a book matches the atmosphere created by the occupants of the White House. There is, after all, a certain justice attached to the publication of this book; a book which has infuriated the White House.<br />Is this one of the deserving legacies left by our draft-dodging, mendacious, raping, womanizing and impeached president and his awful wife? Is this salacious book of filth the most deserving colophon for this couple's presidency? Probably so.<br />Here the president's penis, called Willard, is given a whole chapter in which to utter its philosophy and lamentations; here the insertion of a cigar into the vaginal orifice of \\"that woman, Miss Lewinsky\\" is celebrated and fleshed out (so to speak); here the president's wife is trashed over and over and finally rendered as a duplicitous lesbian driven by power madness. Is this fair? Of course not; but could this book represent a manifestation of Olympian justice stemming from, say, an enraged Zeus? Yes, most definitely.	2000-07-24
US	53006845	R6FNB3C3RVAJZ	0399146113	495393406	It's Not about the Bike: My Journey Back to Life	Books	5	0	0	N	N	It Is SO About The Bike  by fermed	This fantastic person, Lance Armstrong, faced cancer, nearly died, survived, and as I write this (July 22, 2000) is about to win his second Tour de France since his brush with death. He is a superb athlete and an extraordinary human being. The adversity of his disease and its brutal treatments changed him for the better both as a sportsman and as a person; and it is his bike that runs through this book as the unifying force and the symbolic icon for what Lance does. Yes, many of the important aspects of this book have to do with things of the spirit and not with pedaling; but it is on wheels that he first encountered fame, the lack of those wheels that brought him to near despondency, and the triumphal return to his wheels that signaled his being whole once more. <br />There is no self pity or sentimentality in these pages. This is not a book of the \\"inspirational\\" genre; but few will be able to read it without being changed for the better. Here is a man who at every stage of his life could have yielded to excuses or victimhood, but who systematically said \\"no\\" to everything except excellence and self discipline. A true winner. An exciting, fast-paced book. A great reading exoperience; about the bike and about many other things, too.	2000-07-22
US	53006845	R1XIUIHP3Y041B	0385333005	230034308	Driving Mr. Albert: A Trip Across America with Einstein's Brain	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Relative to Einstein, by fermed	The underlying structure of this book consists of the events surrounding a trip from Princeton NJ to Berkeley CA taken by Michael Peterniti (the author), an octogenarian pathologist called Thomas Harvey, and, in the trunk of their rented Buick Skylark, Albert Einstein's brain (suitably sliced, diced, wrapped in plastic and inside a Tupperware container filled with formaldehyde). The purpose of this trip is never clearly stated, and it may have had something to do with delvering the brain to Einstein's granddaughter, Evelyn; but although Evelyn does meet her grandfather's brain, she never takes possession of it, and the brain returns to Princeton via air travel and still under the curatorship of Dr. Harvey, the man who conducted the autopsy of Einstein back in 1955.<br />Grotesque? Yes, there is that. When Einstein died there was a bit of a scramble for his body parts, and Dr. Harvey (allegedly with the permission of relatives and of Mr. A's executor) removed the brain and took it home with the intention of studying it; and the ophthalmologist who treated them took possession of Einstein's eyes, which are now in a safety deposit box of a Philadelphia bank. Other body parts may also have been removed by collectors, although officially Mr. Albert was cremated and his ashes tossed from a secret place into the Delaware river. <br />The book spins an intricate web in which the facts about the trip are only a minor but coalescing force. Surreally related information, concerning body parts such as the foreskin of Christ, Budda's toenail, the penis of Napoleon (put up at auction in 1972), the skull of Hitler, the hearts of Chopin, Shelley and Byron, Lenin's brain (sliced into 31,000 parts) are played against a show-and-tell session with Einstein's brain in a California high school, against Las Vegas gambling tables, drunken nights with a mathematician in Japan, existential banter with an ailing William S. Burroughs, and a serious conversation with Evelyn Einstein, herself aformer police woman, cult-deprogrammer, and insightful wearer of the Einstein name. A riot of textures, colors, settings, and flavors. The result? A riot of a book: funny, tragic, trivial and weighty all at once.<br />The book leaves out a great deal: that the trip took place in 1997 is something that must be deduced, for the narrative is never anchored to time (very Einsteinian, of course) and thus we are often lost as to when some action took place; likewise, there is no mention of the financial arrangements involved in the trip. Who paid for the rental car and the travel expenses? In a book based on fact readers have the right to know about such things. <br />Despite its underlying gruesomeness, its factual lacunae, its frequent narrative messiness and the unforgivable lack of an index, I highly recommend this book as a great and multilayered entertainment.	2000-07-15
US	53006845	RD0RW49SY3EQL	0375404112	789687605	What We Don't Know about Children	Books	2	7	7	N	N	What We DO Know About Fiction, by fermed	First there is the title. In its original Italian it reads \\"Dei Bambini Non Si Sa Niente\\" which translates easily (despite my limited Italian) into \\"Nothing Is Known About Children.\\" The British translation of the book is called \\"A Game We Play;\\" and now comes the American version \\"What We Don't Know...\\" A book so hard to title usually reflects murkiness of content, as in this case. <br />Critics (From London's 'The Independent on Sunday\\" and \\"The Evening Standard\\") have compared this book to Golding's \\"The Lord of The Flies.\\" That is a flimsy and unsustainable comparison: \\"Lord of The Flies\\" is an exquisitely crafted novel depicting the social evolution and intrinsic cruelty of a group of children deprived of adults, while this is a poorly sketched novella of sexual experimentation ending in an accidental tragedy. The two books are comparable only in that they involve children being cruel to one another, which is hardly a unique concept in fiction.<br />While the prose of this book is remarkably appealing, the story that is told is at once too complex and too abbreviated, and its storyline too contrived and intentionally shocking to be taken seriously. The work cannot carry its assigned weightiness. There is no room in the book's scant number of pages (about 150) to pull off the type of deep characterizations needed to make the action verisimilar. Yes, children are quite capable of outrageous acts, but writers should lay the literary foundation needed for readers to believe that these particular children are capable of these particular (evil) acts. The book fails to convince in this respect, and therefore the sexual actions of the children are both grotesque and devoid of meaning because we (the readers) stopped believing in the story around page 25. <br />\\"What We Don't Know About Children\\" seems insignificant compared to what its author does not know about writing novels. The book is easily finished in one sitting, but even so I cannot recommend it. A brisk walkor a crossword puzzle are clearly far superior activities to spending time with this book.	2000-07-13
US	53006845	R33QQW2M5ZHL1U	0465031269	416185932	Why Is Sex Fun?: The Evolution of Human Sexuality (Science Masters)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Less About Fun, More About Evolution. by fermed	Now, REALLY! Do you seriously think that the question posed by the title of this book can be answered? Would you, in any event, want it answered? Do you think sex would be more fun if you knew why it IS fun? Would it be less fun? Does it matter?<br />Worry not. This book does not address the issue of \\"fun.\\" This is a serious tract having to do with evolutionary biology and sociobiology. It does contain such a given as \\"Human sex is mostly for fun, not for insemination,\\" but that is about as far as it goes on the \\"fun\\" part of the title. Catchy titles are known to sell books, and one that contains both \\"sex\\" and \\"fun\\" is sure to account for a few (maybe many) sales, even if it does not describe the contents of the book very well.<br />The interesting parts of the book (and there are many) have to do with such surprising facts as: menopause is a nearly exclusively human trait. Other female mammals remain fertile through their their life span, with the exception of pilot whales, who are subject to menopause. This book attempts to explain the evolutionary advantages of menopause in both humans and whales.<br />The fact that human females emit very few outward signs of fertility and are sexually receptive to males throughout their menstrual cycle has huge implications in terms of how the institution of marriage has evolved in society. It is THAT kind of a book: scholarly, philosophically provocative, and extremely interesting. There is no sexual titillation here. You will be told that pubic and underarm hair are \\"cheap and wholly arbitrary\\" signals of human sexual maturity, a fact which may or may not hold your interest. In all, this is a short but highly concentrated source of extraordinary information about the evolution of sexuality, about mammalian behavior, and even about the interplay between penis size and the size of the brain. It is fine reading, but forget about \\"fun.\\" The book is well indexed and contains good references. I withold one star because of the milddeception this book's title imposes upon the unwary consumer.	2000-07-12
US	53006845	R1PIHIZRMQ2L3M	1881287122	636076051	Old Black	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Of Decency, Youth, and Quarter Horses, fermed	This is a book that violates all sorts of fiction writing rules; but in the end it tells its story well, and that, finally, is what matters. It is a story of love and respect between an aging but athletic horse, and a boy of great honesty and integrity. The bond that develops between them is powerful and enriches each other's lives. It is a touching and sentimental narrative, a story of good triumphant over evil, of decency, friendship, and of an idealized world of physical beauty in which racial conflict has been vanquished, in which people labor happily, and in which love is everywhere.<br />The author's compulsion to explain every motive and nuance, or to attempt to define the undefinable, fills the narrative with distractions and unecessary curlicues that don't further the action; fortunately, the story line is so strong that it withstands the interruptions. In summary, a book worth reading for all but the very jaded, and an ideal object as a gift for any youngster who owns a horse.	2000-07-11
US	53006845	R1ROIVIA7EL2P3	0375501851	363806782	White Teeth	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Explosive Debut, by fermed	First novels are seldom like this: sure-footed, complex, funny, intricate, multidimensional, irreverent, and perfectly at ease with the English language and its ebonic distortions. It is hard to believe that a person in their early twenties would have the experiential and philosophical data base from which to inform as large a creative project as this one; but this is all we are told about Ms. Zadie Smith in the book's cover: that she is 24 years old and a graduate of Cambridge University. Neither of those conditions can account for what she has wrought.<br />She weaves themes such as racial identity, religion, sexuality, political activism, dematology, Englishness, adolescent ennui, gangsterism, war, murder, peace, genetic engineering, body contours, and toothlessness into a rambunctious, wild, energetic, and ultimately satisfying panorama. I suspect Ms. Smith will offend the Political Correct amongst us on the basis that certain things should never be spoken about. She talks about everything.<br />She has a fully developed sense of humor, Ms. Smith does, and along with it a sense of the ridiculous. Thus her surfaces are kept on the verge of slapstick, while underneath there are counter currents of sadness and of the futility of life. Characters are drawn masterfully, and therefore they are hard to forget even long after the book has been finished.<br />The signs of a true professional are a steady hand and a lack of nervousness about what they do. Ms. Smith's professionalism never abandons her, and it is for this reason that one can read her book without the fear of having to make excuses because of her tender age or her lack of writing experience.<br />I expect Zadie Smith will have an extraordinary career as a novelist. I can't wait for her next masterpiece. I recommend this one highly.	2000-07-02
US	53006845	R1ZH0YJZMP9RPE	0375410538	924994086	Anil's Ghost	Books	2	2	3	N	N	A Flawed Novel, by fermed	I found \\"Anil's Ghost\\" a flawed and failed attempt as a novel: neither its form nor its structure seemed capable of holding its material together, and the result is a fractured and inchoate narration that does not flow nor move nor urge the reader onward. The prose is often beautiful, but it alone cannot carry the action, which at time appears pointless and contrived. The novel's background is a multifaceted civil war which may very well have no meaning other than the great brutality it engenders; still, readers need to know something about the war's underlying issues if they are to become interested and emotionally engaged in its narration. The book does not inform about such issues. In the foreground is Anil, the young Sri Lankan expatriate who returns as a visiting forensic anthropologist. She, too, is incompletely sketched and rendered, and thus does not become alive for the reader, requiring the frequent hand of the writer to provide the motivation for her actions and her thoughts and her emotions.<br />I think that the issues touched upon in this novel demand a very large canvas in order that they be properly and satisfactorily addressed. This book seems more like the sketchbook of a miniaturist, hurried and incomplete and ultimately disappointing.	2000-06-30
US	53006845	R2ZHKB8LG8ZZHS	0895871874	985008478	States of Mind: A Search for Faith, Hope, Inspiration, Harmony, Unity, Friendship, Love, Pride, Wisdom, Honor, Comfort, Joy, Bliss, Freedom, Justice, Glory, Triumph,	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Fine Trip, by fermed	I didn't think I would like it: a couple take their Winnebago on a trip across the US that hits places with cute names such as Joy, Harmony, and Bliss and then write about their experiences on the roads and hamlets, and about the people they encounter. Too contrived for my taste, and do we need another Korualt imitator? A Tocqueville manqué?<br />But once I started I was hooked. The author's occasional cynical comments have been noted by other reviewers, and I agree that they are distracting and unecessary. One would wish that he would step aside more often and let America reveal herself unencumbered, which she does splendidly when allowed. On the positive side, Mr. Herzog is a good and competent writer, and it is through his pen that America becomes alive in its robust and vibrant glory. Yes, there is a Glory, in Georgia.<br />The photography (by Amy Herzog, the silent wife) is precisely what it should be: homey snapshots without pretense, only a couple per chapter, in black and white, and the sort one would expect to find in the albums of any of the citizens encountered on the trip. The humbleness of the photography enriches the book.<br />Highly recommended for armchair travelers (especially foreigners) who seek to read something wonderfully touching and different about America. An America one hopes will never vanish.	2000-06-27
US	53006845	RIRA43AVEZ998	0671034855	552051704	Portraits of Guilt	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Disappointing, by fermed	Perhaps I had my expectations all wrong when I purchased this book; and therefore if I feel let down it may not be the fault of the author, or of the book, but the result of my own notion of what I thought I would be getting and did not.<br />I have always had a passion to know about people with odd occupations who feel intensly about them, and who become true masters of their esoteric activities. Now Ms. Jeanne Boylan has written a book about her career as an artist devoted to creating portraits of criminal suspects based on what witnesses have seen and tell her about. This sounds relatively simple and commonplace, since most police departments have someone engaged in the production of such drawings, but the task is incredibly complex. How is it possible to make words lead an artist's hand into stroking a pencil against paper and having a recognizable face appear, a face which matches not only the non-verbal picture in the witness's mind, but the actual physical configuration of the alleged perpetrator? What is the quality and the nature of the language used that causes this to happen? What words are needed (or if not words, gestures) to shift only slightly an eyebrow, to enlarge a forehead just a tad, or lower the left ear but not the right? And then make it all hang together so well, so vividly, that in one case a suspect turned himself in on the basis of her rendition of his face, figuring no doubt that Ms. Boylan's picture was just as good (or better) than a photographic portrait. How is this possible? This book will not tell you.<br />There is no question that Ms. Boylan is masterful in what she does, and that to a certain extent she does try to convey some of the tone and thrust of her conversations with the witnesses. But somehow the book fails to satisfy in this respect, and the nature of what she does and how she does it remains mysterious and elusive. Actually, it remains essentially unaddressed. <br />Instead she packs the book with the most trivial of irrelevancies (trivial to the reader, that is) including a superficial but prolonged description of her marriage falling apart, and dozens of pages devoted to airports and connecting flights, and telephones, and FBI calls, and Hollywood calls, and on and on and on.<br />Once I realized that what I wanted and expected would not be forthcoming, I had to force myself to finish this book. That is something I normally do not do unless I plan to review the work: there are lots of books to read, and boredom should not be tolerated. This one really dragged.<br />I am so sorry. Ms. Boylan seems to be a lovely, likable person, and I hate evaluating her book as being third rate. I believe that what she has by way of talent, and magic, and communication skills will one day be written about competently. I can't wait to read about it.	2000-06-24
US	53006845	R2JI4IWQ8WGDZE	0375501819	474214507	24/7: Living it Up and Doubling Down in the New Las Vegas	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Las Vegas: some like it lukewarm, by fermed	... Surely Mr. Martinez and his publisher could have pooled their creative resources and baptized this book differently. \\"24/7\\" does have a meaning, however: it represents the business hours of Las Vegas casinos (open 24 hours a day, seven days a week). And 365 days per year, except of leap-years when they are open 366, if I may add.<br />It will be fun reading most of this book, provided you have recently been to Las Vegas, frequently go there, or intend to go there any time soon. If you don't fit into one of those categories, skip the book and read something else. I canot envison someone enjoying this book without having personally experienced, or being on the verge of experiencing, at least some of the places Mr. Martinez writes about.<br />The book is based on the following proposition: an aspiring writer approaches a publisher with this cockamamy plan: He, the writer, will accept a $50,000 advance on a book he intends to write about going to Las Vegas with $50,000 and spending a month at the gambling tables, moving from hotel to hotel, from game to game. The $50K (advance) and the $50K (gambling kitty) will be one and the same. See? The publisher agrees and forks over $50,000. \\"NO! \\" you say. \\"YES! \\" I say; and that is how the books starts: the withdrawing of the $50 grand \\"book advance\\" from the bank, the day before departure to Las Vegas. <br />The rest of the book is a mixed bag, at times hilariously funny, and at others downright boring. Mr. Martinez is a likable fellow, a graduate of law school with a serious talent as a comic writer. The book contains a lot of filler material (history, geography, pop psychology) much of which should have been spared and all of which is highly skipable. Given the fundamentally extraordinary notion on which the book is based, the final result of this tale is a semi-success. Perhaps if Mr. Martinez had been a drug addled psychopath with criminal intentions and awful habits the book formula would have produced a more lively tome. But then, probably, no publisher would have entrusted him with the original cash. <br />This book is NOT a manual about gambling, and it offers very little by way of wagering tips or hints. It is a trip to Las Vegas in the company of an interesting, funny, uptight, straight-as-an-arrow companion. Some will be irritated about being guided by such a fellow through Sin City, while others will find it a wonderful experience. To each their own cup of tea.	2000-06-20
US	53006845	RHPBW02TEGUP6	0226320618	688914972	The Road to Serfdom: Fiftieth Anniversary Edition	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Fundamental Reading, by fermed	I was a pimply and feckless youth attending college in DC when I think I might have read parts of \\"The Road to Serfdom.\\" I say \\"parts\\" because in those days I never read anything completely, suffering as I did from a profound aversion to any effort to instill an education into my head. Only two phenomena interested me then (food and sex) and I viewed with dismal contempt anything that would distract or interfere with the satisfaction of those simple but base instincts.<br />I found a recent reading of the book refreshing and enlightening. The 50th anniversary edition, in paperback, contains the prefaces of the 1944 (first) edition, those to the 1957 and 1976 editions, and an introduction by Milton Friedman, dated 1994. Friedrich Hayek is now dead (1899-1992), but he received a well deserved Nobel Prize in economics in 1974. This book was the key to that prize. This edition contains the original bibliography (nothing before 1944) and a fair index.<br />Hayek's book is one of the fundamental building blocks of libertarian thinking. In a careful and relentless analysis he points out that the growth of collectivism (socialism), and the expansion of government that such growth fosters, leads inevitably to the horrors of a totalitarian state. It is no coincidence that the only remaining endorsers of unrestrained communism (Cuba and North Korea) are ruthless dictatorships and not worker's paradises. This book tell you how come.<br />I can't say this is a \\"fun\\" book. But one should, from time to time, attempt to remedy the excesses of youthful self-indulgence from one's college days. This is a good book with which to do penance and gain wisdom, all at once.	2000-06-17
US	53006845	R4IHT6NHYOLFF	158234082X	24249899	Kitchen Confidential: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Kitchen, With Love, by fermed	Anthony Bourdain probably had a great deal of fun writing this book: it is, at different levels, a Catholic confession, an exposé of the restaurant industry, several psychological case studies, a twelve-step self criticism session, a truly picaresque tale, a how-to book, a how-not-to manual, a tract on God and the nature of man, and a book of prayer. <br />I cannot know how competent a chef Mr. Bourdain is, but I do know, from reading his prose, that he is a very fine writer and a humorist of the first order. Yes, he makes you smile through the tears. He makes you laugh while in pain.<br />The reviews that this book has elicited from Amazon readers have been bi-polar, love-hate. Those who don't like the author call him a narcissist and a phony; a drug-addled fool, and an ignoramus. He is called a \\"New Yorker\\" in its pejorative sense; and a traitor. Some say the book is not worth its price. Hah!<br />There is a short chapter (less than ten pages long) called \\"How to Cook Like a Pro\\" which alone justifies the price of the book. Bourdain gives far more than he takes. Tucked away in his chronicle of food adventures are dozens of slivers of profound wisdom, tiny truffle particles of divine knowledge that will enrich the life and the productions of anyone entering the kitchen with creative intents. Good reading. Practical advice. A useful pleasure - therefore a rarity.	2000-06-13
US	53006845	R1SGJJG126WDDC	0786863331	207316076	The Hillary Trap: Looking for Power in All the Wrong Places	Books	4	1	2	N	N	The Real Mrs. Clinton, by fermed	Step by step, one by one, calmly and without hatred, Laura Ingraham removes the layers of lies and hypocrisy that have covered Mrs. Clinton's interactions with the American public. This book contains minor shocks on each page, but the sum total is not explosive, no. In the end one thinks \\"how dare this woman seek to represent the people of New York?\\" Has she no shame? Is her fraudulence so massive that it has infiltrated to a biological level, to her cellular DNA? <br />Nothing about Mrs. Clinton's politics can stand even a cursory scrutiny. Any place one scratches, the hypocisy flakes off and what is revealed is not pretty. While her husband was busily lying (to wife, to friends, to nation, to God) Mrs. Clinton was converting herself into a living deception. She IS a lie. The \\"traps\\" outlined in this book consists of a string of mendacities (about herself, about her beliefs, about her competence) which are the guides to her life. <br />There are many in New York (but not too many) who see her as a superior woman, as a strong, capable leader who will improve the lot of all women -- and therefore of all men, if she is given a chance to represent them in the senate. I would beg these people to read this book calmly and decide for themselves if they wish to give Mrs. Clinton the powers of a US senator.<br />The book carefully documents its arguments. It is not a \\"rant\\" of any kind. It is a carefully documented analysis of the past and present of a person who is seeking an office of great political power -- and why such power should be denied her. <br />The lack of index in this book (or in any serious book) is inexcusable and causes me to withold one star.	2000-06-08
US	53006845	R2FG1IFLXHV513	0618059458	301023145	The Human Stain	Books	3	0	0	N	N	It never leaves the ground	There is something marvelous about reading the work of a superb writer at the peak of his form, and Roth's prose is so delicious one is hard put to criticize this work; yet \\"The Human Stain\\" must be criticized because it has many fundamental failures; so many, in fact, that in the end the book fails to convince or to satisfy.<br />The author starts testing the contract with his readers by asking us to believe in this hardly credible platform: a perfect black child, valedictorian of his class, great athlete, superb boxer (unbeknownst to his family), intellecually brilliant, without racial hangups, with green eyes and a skin white enought to \\"pass,\\" aims for and succeeds in a brilliant career in academia with a specialty in Greek and Roman classics, all along pretending to be a Jew. Well, maybe. In the course of the book the contract is further encumbered by dozens of improbable details, unlikely coincidences, and unbelievable misunderstandings (which cannot be cited here without interfering with the enjoyment of the book by others), until one can no longer participate in the suspension of belief the writer asks from us. The big picture that undelies this novel is surely not believable; but the details? Ah, the details are masterfully drawn, so that the reader proceeds, no longer trusting the ground on which he is stepping, but loving the meticulously crafted scenery that strokes and lulls all his senses so precisely. There is much to learn and to love in those details, even if the plot fundamentally fails.<br />I must say that I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book and would not want to have deprive myself of its many pleasures. If in the end I was left unsatisfied, it was because it had an effect similar to that encountered in a flight simulator: one receives the milliard sensory imputs, and one's body and mind reacts realistically to the flight conditions; but one leaves the machine knowing full well that it never got off the ground. This book will not fly you, either, although at times you will feel for sure that you are in the air.	2000-05-28
US	53006845	R3C6ACJG3AZRSS	0811214311	720787331	When I Was Mortal	Books	2	1	8	N	N	Stunted Short Stories by fermed	There are twelve short stories in this volume, and none seems to have been finished: they either lack a proper beginning, a decent middle or a completed end. Perhaps the future of the short story is going to be this: incomplete musings, wobbly sketches, outlines, unfinished plots, half-baked ideas. An introduction to this volume tells us that 300,000 copies of the book have been sold in Spanish speaking countries, and lists the many prizes won by its author Javier Marías. Obviously someone has enjoyed these stories, but not I.<br />There is no question that the author is capable of churning out lovely sentences and pretty paragraphs; but this is like laying bricks beautifully, but having no construction plan, or a defective one: the final product will be pointless and not pleasing to the eye.<br />I do not believe that an artist should need to explain his work; having to explain indicates a recognition by the craftsman that his work is defective, or incomplete, or in need of being propped up, or excused, or forgiven. Mr. Marías prefaces this short volume with an introduction explaining his stories. This introduction does not enhance the stories at all and probably detracts from them.<br />He has this to say about other short stories he has created: \\"There are still a few [short stories] scattered elsewhere, written very freely or without any commission: it seems advisable to me, however, that they should either remain in obscurity or else scattered.\\" Exactly so. These twelve deserved a similar fate (scattered obscurity) but instead they were gathered together and translated into English and presented in this handsome volume. Not a book that I will recommend to my friends.	2000-05-26
US	53006845	RNP1BOJVAB5P7	080505569X	774344100	Lord Cochrane, Seaman, Radical, Liberator: A Life of Thomas, Lord Cochrane, 10th Earl of Dundonald (Heart of Oak Sea Classics Series)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Admiral of the Blue, by fermed	Lord Cochrane was, by all accounts, a superior naval officer. He was inventive, bold, imaginative, extremely meticulous in his preparations for action, and capable of great theatrics in the service of victory in battle, in capturing prizes, and in befuddling the enemy. He treated his men honorably at a time when abusing them was the norm and he rewarded them handsomely from the prize revenues he engendered. As a result he was adored by his subordinates and never had trouble recruiting personnel to serve under him. <br />He was a model which inspired aspects of Jack Aubrey and Hornblower and other fictional characters of the Anglo-French wars. His true life was even more tumultuous than the fiction it spawned, for he became a naval hero in Chile and in Peru, in Brazil, and in Greece as he participated in each of those countries' wars of independence. <br />When on land, Lord Cochrane was an inept, impetuous, cantankerous politician (he was a member of parliament for 10 years), who had no notion of the art of politics, and therefore was repeatedly demolished by his enemies, which were many. It is amazing that the brilliant and disciplined naval officer and tactician would become a bumbling, disorganized politician, but that is precisely what happened. He was involved in financial scandals, his honors and medals were removed, and his purse squandered and lost. It is likely that this honorable man was never guilty of the charges for which he was convicted (stock fraud), but the truth shall never be known for sure.<br />He lived a long life (1775 - 1860) and by the time he died at 85 he had managed to (mostly) repair his honor, his finances, and his reputation, more as a result of the political changes around him than as a result of having learned political lessons.<br />This book by Christopher Lloyd, a professional naval historian, has the scholar's convincing tone and language throughout. It has a fair index and bibliography. The book is highly recommended to the Aubrey-Maturin fans who are forever expanding their collections with ancillary historical volumes that allow for additional enjoyment of the series.	2000-05-26
US	53006845	R2N7BAFDH4DRMZ	0965653536	649731170	Naked Pictures Of My Ex-Girlfriends	Books	5	0	0	N	N	American naïff, by fermed	This book is bound to elicit the envy of most males who were sexually hyperactive in the 70's and didn't think of unsheathing their cameras while they were at it. The naked pictures of the title are amateurish, and that contributes to their charm. The female human body is intrinsically beautiful yet extremely difficult to photograph without making it appear grotesque, obscene or absurd. Mr. Helfrich manages to reflect that beauty by remaining as naive behind the camera as he appears to have been in front of his subjects.<br />Only in America! I cannot imagine such a wondrous collection of nude young women appearing so clean and so pasteurized and so devoid of moral microbes in a foreign publication. These are our sisters and our cousins and our next door neighbors. They are wholesome and good and entirely lacking in malice. <br />The text is childish in tone and scope and that, too, adds to the charm of this book. The captions and comments suggest the reflections of a kid overwhelmed by his past carnal riches who is now trying to be very grown up about it all. It is a fun book that does not pretend to be art, or philosophy or even history. Its blatant title is as completely devoid of pretense as the pictures the book contains. True Americana, likely to acquire value and stature with the passage of time.	2000-05-24
US	53006845	RZYNFMYIU7XHG	0811214311	720787331	When I Was Mortal	Books	2	1	6	N	N	Stunted, by fermed	I ordered this book on the basis of Mr. Marias's fame as one of Spain's best modern writers; I wished to sample my countryman's fame and enjoy the vehicle of his success. At the very start of the volume the reader is informed that about 300,000 copies of this book have been sold in Spanish speaking countries, and also that Mr. Marias has won numerous prizes for his writing.<br />Also at the start of the book is an author's foreword, in which he explains himself. For it is true that this little volume of 12 short stories needs to be explained, and that is my main criticism of the book: the stories cannot (and therefore do not) stand on their own feet. The author has to bring the reader into a back room and tell him about his creations (even though, I for one, fiercely resist invitations to back rooms); to explain that 11 of the 12 stories were \\"commissioned\\" (that is, someone offered to pay for a story of so many words, or one containing \\"the sea, a storm, and animal..,\\" or one taking place in Madrid); to explain his philosophy about the creative process; or to tell about how some of the stories had been modified in order to appear in this volume. The trouble is that an artist should either let his productions speak for themselves, or (if they are mute) let them remain silent. <br />Most, if not all, of these stories should have been editorially returned to the author for finishing or for banishment. At some level the author surely understands about his propensity to produce stunted creations, for he has this to say about other short stories of his: \\"There are still a few scattered elsewhere, written very freely or without commission: it seems advisable to me, however, that they should either remain in obscurity or else scattered.\\" That radical prescription should have been applied to these twelve also.	2000-05-23
US	53006845	R2JOB90NECELD3	0815604602	736160894	Insanity: The Idea and Its Consequences	Books	5	37	38	N	N	Truth by iconoclasm, by fermed	Thomas Szasz's writing career has been founded on reaching for the truth by smashing the false linguistic and conceptual idols of psychiatry. His \\"Myth of Mental Illness,\\" published in 1961, still stands as one of the most clear and devastating indictments of modern psychiatry: a system it describes as being rife with hypocrisy and mendacity. There is no such \\"disease\\" as mental illness, or schizophrenia, or insanity, he argues (brilliantly).<br />In this book Szasz brings together and summarizes the logical and conceptual underpinnings of his arguments. It is a tour de force. His language is simple, direct, unequivocal. The influence of Karl Kraus (about whom has written a book) on the purity of his language usage is patent in his prose and thus the reader is never left in doubt about what Szasz means.<br />Szasz recognizes the difficulty of abandoning any broad and pervasive set of concepts with which we have been raised, regardless of how wrong or absurd the concepts may be. Those who toil in the field of mental health may reject all (or most) of his arguments on the basis of their daily contact with the mentally ill: to be shown that there is no such thing as \\"mental illness\\" is bound to cause a jolt to their tranquility. Yet it should be the goal of society to seek a universe in which the behavior of people is not mislabeled and where truth in language reigns. Szasz points us in the right direction. An excellent bibliography, references, and name and subject indices are part of the book.	2000-05-21
US	53006845	ROUZ5UWEZJAC6	0815602472	774437024	Anti-Freud: Karl Kraus's Criticism of Psychoanalysis and Psychiatry	Books	5	28	31	N	N	Genius, by fermed	Freud tried to cozy up to him (and was rejected); his work was fundamental to Wittgenstein's philosophico-linguistic theories, and three times he was nominated for the Nobel prize in literature by French academicians; yet he remains essentially unknown in this country, despite this marvelous exegesis of his work by Thomas Szasz, which was published in 1976.<br />Karl Kraus (1874-1936) was, and continues to be, an embarrassment to many intellectuals. His punishment has been to have his work misread, misinterpreted, untranslated, and finally ignored. He has been attacked as being antisemitic (\\"self-hating Jew\\"), mentally disturbed, and (symbolically) envious of his father's penis.<br />Kraus's commentaries and aphorisms concerning psychiatry and psychoanalysis are delightful, powerful, and as accurate today as when he uttered them. Szasz, who has been fighting the good battle against psychiatric abuses and pretensions all of his career, is the ideal person to introduce Americans to Kraus and his work. A short, well indexed book. Worth having to keep and to read over from time to time.	2000-05-20
US	53006845	RPUOOI1ANCQJK	0394513487	723560286	The Foods and Wines of Spain	Books	5	44	45	N	N	A Spanish classic, by fermed	In 1982 Penelope Casas published the finest book of Spanish cookery ever. It is now in its 11th printing. Although she has written other books on the cuisines of Spain, \\"The Foods and Wines of Spain\\" has biblical standing among cooks. For her culinary expertise she has been honored by the government of Spain, but more importantly, she had built a following of gastronomes of all stripes who swear by her recipes. Their authenticity is never in question: she is an indefatigable researcher who goes back to the kitchen and discusses things with the local artists and then includes those recipes and techniques in her book. If a few of the dishes don't taste exactly as they did in Spain it is because not all the ingredients are available here. Still, Ms. Casas gives advice about reasonable substitutes, and now that serrano ham and some chorizos are allowed to be imported, such substitutions can be kept to a minimum.<br />The book contains not one but two recipes for garlic soup, simple to make by even beginning cooks, and highly addictive. The \\"arroz a banda\\" described is one of the more subtle and satisfying of the rice dishes; and of course there is the paella (about which Ms. Casas has written a separate book). In this volume its recipe appears a bit intimidating, but it is essentially easy to prepare if one does not think too much about it beforehand.<br />For those cooks who need exact formulas and pharmacy-like precision in their ingredients, this book will please them. For those who are relativists with active imaginations, the book will also satisfy by pointing them in the right direction: pork chops with prunes, duck with olives in sherry sauce, baked porgy and peppers with brandy, chicken with figs. Yum.	2000-05-19
US	53006845	R10EJG3LEJNOEL	3886180875	947060292	Canary Islands (Nelles Guides)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An excellent guide, by fermed	This recently published (1999) guide by Bernd Gruschwitz, cites prices that are more likely to reflect reality than older guides to the islands. Its photography is luscious, professional, and plentiful (145), and above all the pictures truly capture what the islands are all about. The maps are excellent and drawn with three dimensional details, so that mountains and valleys are immediately grasped visually.<br />The book is 257 pages long, giving it sufficient room to address the important aspects of each of the 7 islands, as well as to present an overview of their collective history, language and customs. I found a number of small errors (calling shrimp \\"cangrejo\\" and captioning a picture of dried fish as \\"marinated rabbit\\") but this is a first edition which often contains such mistakes. Counterbalancing those small irritants, the book is exaustively informative: for instance it tells about topless and nude bathing, about assistance for people with special needs (electric wheel chair rentals in Tenerife, for example) and about recent exchange rates for currency. The book's advice is always sound and by all means should be followed.<br />I remain partial to the Lonely Planet guide (it is personable and a fun book), but if I were going to the Canaries for the first time and had to make an absolute choice between this guide and Lonely Planet's, this is the one I would take. The author (a frequent vacationer there) wrote the book in German and then had it translated to English; thus the slightly stiff prose. In all, highly recommended and best to be read and digested while the trip to the Canaries is still in its planning stages.	2000-05-18
US	53006845	R6GATJIYD2EOE	006101351X	637283524	The Perfect Storm: A True Story of Men Against the Sea	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Perfect sea story, by fermed	This book gripped me as few ever have: I read straight through it, and then started all over to reexamine some of the intricate details which I had hurried over the first time around. Those readers who have ever been in a real storm at sea should not be surprised if their viscera become activated by this book: during my reading I took occasional walks around the block to experience terra firme and distance myself from the intense emotions the book was eliciting. <br />Over 550 Amazon people have had something to say about The Perfect Storm, so there is not much left to add by way of an evaluation. Except this: I have a son who, though extremely bright, has never been much of a reader. He is a boat captain, and I sent him a copy. So far the only book he had ever read from cover to cover in his entire life was Winnie the Poo. Now he has doubled that list.	2000-05-17
US	53006845	R3J4BHRHMXUBP6	078670103X	693372848	Some of Your Blood	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Beauty unexpected, by fermed	The author of this book, Theodore Sturgeon, makes frequent appearances in K. Vonnegut's novels. He is (in Vonnegut's works) the genius science fiction writer Kilgore Trout, whose magnificent writing talent is unrecognized and forever relegated to appearing only in trashy paperbacks. This book is a Sturgeon-Trout masterpiece.<br />\\"Some of Your Blood\\" contains one of the most exquisitely beautiful love stories ever told. Like a perfect flower growing out of a concrete wall, part of its beauty is the improbability of its very existence. The lovers, George and Anna, are surrounded by physical and emotional squalor, and having each other is the only thing of consequence and beauty in their lives. The story is told as a psychiatric case history in the correspondence between an enlisted psychologists, an officer psychiatrist, and a brilliant nurse case-worker. It is an exciting, quick paced, splendidly crafted novel. This is not a horror story...it is a gem.	2000-05-17
US	53006845	R3RJUY7P9APZTT	1859741177	479293275	Canary Islands Travel Pack	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Run of the mill, by fermed	This travel guide to the Canaries, by Andre Gravette, is adequate if you are to visit the larger islands, but it is skimpy and incomplete when it addresses the smaller ones (La Palma, Gomera and Hierro). The \\"Lonely Planet\\" guide to the islands, by Damien Simonis, is superior as a travel book: it has more depth, variety and historical information; and its fine prose, humor and flavor separate it from the run of the mill travel books. In addition, this book is less than half the size of the other (128 pages compared to 274. Gravette's guide does come with a large and detailed map of the islands and its photography is of a slightly better quality than Simonis's. If forced to make a choice (and for the identical price) pick the Lonely Planet guide over this one; but if you can afford both, and you plan to go there, don't deprive yourself. Get them both.	2000-05-13
US	53006845	R1BYBQO5S5HQYP	0375755349	91631748	Vera (Mrs. Vladimir Nabokov)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Véra & Vladimir & Vladimir & Véra, by fermed	It would be impossible to write the biography of Véra alone without the biography of V. Nabokov being integrally attached to it: at some profound level they were one and the same entity. Véra and Vladimir were, in the end, each other's inventions: each one held up a peculiarly distorted mirror in which the other's reflection appeared to the world. This biography makes a stupendous effort to disentangle these images from one another, but in the end the knot won't be loosened: they are joined not at the hip, but at the soul. The biography is absolutely splendid: intricate, deep, minutious in its details, brilliantly rendered, subtle, fast paced, and wholly satisfying in its results. That the book never does separate the yin from the yang is because of the nature of the creatures it addresses: one contains the other, just as surely as the other contains the one.<br />Véra was the ultimate feminist while at the same time the self effacing servant of her genius husband. Did her (different) talents rank up there with his? Most probably, although she would deny this. She collected his words indiscriminantly, as if each phrase had great intrinsic value; every little scrap of paper became a motive for her archival attention and care. Nabokov depended on Véra for all practical things that life tossed his way (he was the typical absentminded professor) with the exception of the lovely young women who intercepted his bumbling march through this world. For these, and for a deeply threatening love affair he had during their 12th year of marriage, Véra demonstrated forbearance, but never tolerance.<br />In this long and magnificent biography Stacy Shiff manages to transcent the historical paraphernalia of the Nabokov's tumultuous lives to reveal the elusive characterology and spirituality of this very odd couple. She deftly studies them directly and as reflections of each other, as ghosts and mirages as well as the flesh and bood beings who lived and grew and aged and died. The reader receives more than just an exquisitly crafted portrait-history of Véra and Vladimir; a bit of their soul is imparted also. Worth having, worth reading.	2000-05-12
US	53006845	R2OOY32ZT6BOZL	1859847366	676518692	No One Left to Lie to: The Triangulations of William Jefferson Clinton	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Anatomy of deceit, by fermed	It is a little sliver of a book, sharp and luminous and deadly. Like a dagger. In most dictatorial countries it would have earned Hitchens a long prison sentence, or maybe cost him his life. Here he has received much deserved applause from lovers of truth (and good writing) and impertinent \\"ad hominems\\" from those left on the left who can still tolerate the scoundrel.<br />In a previous book, Hitchens managed to expose that \\"living saint\\" Mother Teresa as a ruthless and fraudulent baptizer of the unwilling, unwashed, denizens of Calcutta's slums (\\"The Misionary Position\\"); and therefore exposing Clinton's mendacity and corruption should have been child's play for someone with his skills. Yet the book is intricate and beautifully written, revealing no unseemly haste in performing his dissection.<br />One thing is to list Clinton's disgraceful behavior item by item (a long list but an easy one to construct) and quite another is to cut beneath the surface and dissect the patterns of deceit; the nerves, tendons and ligaments that support this man's astonishing ability to dupe the nation, over and over and over. It takes skill and perceptual brilliance to expose these connections and Hitchens does this masterfully. This little book is superb.	2000-05-09
US	53006845	R2B2JHQBLCG7DD	0898158532	484348139	The Compleat Cockroach: A Comprehensive Guide to the Most Despised (And Least Understood) Creature on Earth	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Horrible little beasts, by fermed	It takes a combination of strength of character, sheer curiosity and a touch of madness to spend hard earned dollars on a book devoted to blattaria, which is the family name of cockroaches. Most people have an absolute and total abhorrence towards these little beasties: they believe that no cockroach, not even a dead cockroad, can possibly be a good cockroach.<br />Once the initial repulsion to the book and its title has been overcome, it does not mean one is going to love the critters, or even tolerate them in one's life space; but a reluctant amazement about these complex and bizarre creatures is likely to develop. If one's only interest on the subject is how to be rid of them, this book reviews the history of the attempts to exterminate them and the modern methods now in use. But perhaps you would like to become a collector, or a breeder...no? Well, if you change your mind you will find the addresses of others interested in catching, swapping or breeding the insects. Reading the 170 odd pages of this book will not make you a scientific expert on blattaria, but it pretty well guarantees that you will not be lost for words at the next cocktail party. If the subject of cockroaches happens to come up.<br />The book contains a good index, a section on cockroach supplies and resources (food, rubber cockroaches, museums of cockroaches) and a 5 book non-fiction bibliography.The book's title reflects precisely its contents, and for that reason, as well as the other attributes mentioned, it earns my five stars.	2000-05-08
US	53006845	R2WQDR2N59R058	0684838648	7030456	The Redneck Manifesto: How Hillbillies, Hicks, and White Trash Became America's Scapegoats	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Like a thunderbolt, by fermed	It requires having at least two senses sharply honed to appreciate (or even perceive) what this book is about: a sense of humor and a sense of justice. This is a hilarious, rambunctious, turbulent march through the carefully tended gardens of left-wing righteousness. It is a joy to see Goad gore every sacred cow in sight, and lots of bulls, too. He forces his readers to question the correctness of their concepts of American class, race, and privilege.<br />I lived for many years in the US South, and learned through experience never to take at face value those who pretend to be semi-literate hicks of one sort or another. Goad attempts precisely that shtick, but behind it is a highly informed, analytical, and sharp mind. A book that should be taken seriously despite itself.	2000-05-07
US	53006845	R1173LWCMITNE	0312150482	923127867	An Alarming History of Famous and Difficult Patients: Amusing Medical Anecdotes from Typhoid Mary to FDR	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Probably more than you want to know, by fermed	This is a companion book to \\"The Alarming History of Medicine\\" by the physician, writer and humorist Richard Gordon, who also authored the \\"Doctor in the House\\" series. It contains medical commentaries on 31 more or less famous people, picked (more likely than not) for the availability of their disease records than for other communalities they may have had.<br />Medical gossip can be a lot of fun, and Gordon exploits this subject very well, adding obscure and recondite facts to what might be common knowledge. Yes, most people know about G. Washington's dentures, but it is surprising to hear about the English fad for dental implants that resulted in \\"barrels full of teeth\\" taken from US Civil War cadavers by macabre entrepreneurs and shipped to Britain, there to be sold by mail-order. Most know vaguely about \\"Typhoid Mary,\\" but the story of Mary Mallon, an Irish cook, is seldom told as the medical detective account in which Dr. Geoge Soper was able to track her down by sheer obsession, luck, and statistical skills. Many know about the divine Sarah Bernhardt's leg amputation, but here the anesthetist's notes are transcribed, and the history of her injury and treatments, before and after the removal of her right leg is recounted. <br />Napoleon's hemorrhoids at Waterloo? Hitler's missing left testicle? Queen Victoria's abscessed armpit? Probably more than one cares to contemplate; but for the inveterate gossips and trivia collectors amongst us it is a treasure of scuttlebutt, rumor and history that will be cherished. There is no index, and for a book of this type that should cost at least one star. The fair bibliography is good enough, but it doesn't make up for the absent index.	2000-05-07
US	53006845	R3NQXVL2GQJI4L	0312167636	565390851	The Alarming History of Medicine: Amusing Anecdotes from Hippocrates to Heart Transplants	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Light and funny, by fermed	Richard Gordon is a physician, a writer and a humorist. His history of medicine is, indeed, alarming. It was not so much what wasn't known that mattered, but what physicians thought they knew and did not. The book is light and quick paced. At times I wished Gordon had quit trying to be funny and had spent a little more time expounding on his massive knowledge of medicine and its history. I am not an expert in this field, but I did make an effort to check some of his facts...and he was right on target. The book is packed with medical trivia and funny gossip (sometimes horrible gossip) about its practitioners. Much of the information is astonishing if not alarming. The book lacks an index, which is infuriating and should be forbidden in these days of computers. It does have a few pages of references. In all I thoroughly enjoyed reading it, and I certainly learned a great deal of new and interesting facts, despite the author's obsession with the quick, witty phrase.	2000-05-02
US	53006845	R3FBBTOY8IB1MH	0684816059	817304676	About Town: The New Yorker and The World It Made (First Edition)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An amazing feat, by fermed	Writing a book about the New Yorker must be one of the world's most complex tasks. The subject is a semi-live, organically strange, symbolically rich, ever shifting protean being that stays still like a rock and at the same time is in perpetual motion. That Ben Yagoda was able to capture its likeness in a portrait made of words is in itself utterly amazing: but that this portrait is a work of art, quite independent of its subject matter, is a small miracle for which we should all be grateful. Like other readers who have commented, I could not put the book down; and this work will reverberate with me for many months, or even years. As I read, I started jotting down a small list of New Yorker writers whose work I \\"must\\" read (again or for the first time). By the end of the book it was a long list that will easily see me through 2001. This is a great book and a reference work that will be frequently consulted.	2000-05-02
US	53006845	R16BML3WE7T1AU	0922915296	907587371	Death Scenes: A Homicide Detective's Scrapbook	Books	5	23	25	N	N	Broken bodies, by fermed	I rate this book highly because it is honest. It does not pretend to be anything other than what it is: a scapbook containing dozens of photographs of murdered remains, or bodies after suicide, of decapitations and decompositions, of naked bodies diseased or tattooed; it is a gallery of gruesomely altered human physiques. The pictures and their captions have a direct and stirring effect on the gut of the reader, and only later do they permit the reader's reason to come into play. The book's title is true to its contents; its cover is also honest (a sample of what is inside) and the brief introduction by Katherine Dunn is perceptive and functional. That introduction does what an introduction is supposed to do: prepare the reader for what is ahead while furnishing a sensible commentary on the nature of the work. In all this is a neat book, worth having.<br />I cannot understand the negative comments by some readers concerning \\"Death Scenes.\\" Surely they were not ambushed into gazing at these (horrible) pictures. They should have known by the title, by the cover, and even by the publisher (Feral House) that this was not a book of, say, children's poems. Much can be learned from \\"Death Scenes:\\" it contains great beauty and even some rhapsodic traits which can be perceived once the initial horror has been bypassed. This book should be looked at by those interested in the facts or in the literature of true crime. It is sure to bring pause to those contemplating suicide. \\"Death Scenes\\" certainly contains aspects of reality which some will prefer to avoid but which others will incorporate into their view of the world.	2000-04-30
US	53006845	R1PC8V1U4GT7P4	0375707972	153296191	The Reader	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Unreal and trite, by fermed	I object in principle to books of fiction that use the holocaust as a background or as a means of furthering a plot. Go somewhere else to find the motifs of fictionalized drama, and leave those things which are sacred and still painfult to thousands, alone. It is a very rare writer who can touch that theme without cheapening or trivializing it, and this is not one of them.<br />The theme of the book (love between and older, experienced woman, and an adolescent boy) is a cliche, and the book is riddled with one improbable event after another, making for a distracting and tedious reading. The characters in the book do not become alive, and in part this is due to an improper anchoring of the point of view. An omniscient writer is bad enough, but an omniscient protagonist is intolerable.<br />Are there no redeeming values here? Of course there are. The story is sweet and sentimental and, from reading some of the more of 500 reviews posted here, it has obviously been very pleasing to many people. In my view \\"The Reader\\" should have been rewritten a few times more until it condensed itself into an acceptable short story.	2000-04-24
US	53006845	RTOL84XRIPHBY	0300083408	681039726	Taliban: Militant Islam, Oil and Fundamentalism in Central Asia	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Fundamentalism & brutality, by fermed	In man's repertoire of brutalisms and sheer unecessary cruely, doing things in the name of God ranks very high. This book illustrates the social monstrosities that can be designed in the name of the deity: a society in which women a held prisoners in their homes, in which women are forbidden an education, and therefore cannot receive medical treatment (since there is a scarcity of trained female doctors and nurses, and women's bodies cannot be examined by male physicians). Executions are frequent and public, and limb amputations for minor transgressions are the order of the day. A religious \\"police\\" make sure that the population conforms to the rules and regulations concerning dress, food and prayer.<br />At the head of this society is a 39 year old man (Mullah Omar) who has never been photographed and who is wary and distrustful of all foreigners. He has only visited Kabul twice, briefly, and he lives in seclusion in Kandahar, Afghanistan's second largest city. Omar administers the country with a group of leaders who according to the book are \\"the most disabled in the world:\\" Three of them (including the chief) lack one eye, several lack at least one limb, and many are missing fingers. That's what you get as a guerrilla fighter, the employment of these gentlemen before they started governing.<br />The book is well researched and informative. It contains several useful appendices: a good bibliography; a glossary of Afghan terms; samples of edicts issued by the Taliban; a schematic chart of all the leaders, their jobs and background; and notes on each chapter. The explanation for the name \\"Taliban\\" was most welcome: \\"A talib is an Islamic student, one who seeks knowledge compared to the mullah who is one who gives knowledge. By choosing such a name the \\"Taliban\\" (plural of Talib) distanced themselves from the party politics of the Mujaheddin and signaled that they were a movement for cleansing society rather than a party trying to grab power.\\" It is a shame that theword \\"taliban\\" should enter the English language so full of blood and cruelty.	2000-04-21
US	53006845	R2QFYVTKMTGGWA	0226902234	169714926	Mesmerized: Powers of Mind in Victorian Britain	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Medical hypnosis	This excellent book contains many fascinating threads, interwoven skillfully to produce a most satisfying reading experience. It is certainly a good history of altered states of consciousness obtained by interpersonal communication. The Austrian physician Franz Anton Mesmer borrowed the notion of \\"animal magnetism\\" (science was infatuated with magnets in those days) and went about effecting cures by touching patients with a glass wand in an abracadabra setting. The phenomenon took his name (\\"mesmerism\\") until the Scott James Braid started calling it \\"hypnotism\\" based on the Greek name for sleep. As should be expected, Victorian mesmerism/hypnotism bares little resemblance to modern medical hypnosis.<br />It is also a story of the origins of modern anesthesia: the only known general and dental anesthetics available until the 1840's were alcohol and opium. Anesthetic gases, such as ether and nitrous oxide, had been known since the 1790's, but no one had thought about applying them to block the excruciating agonies that attended surgical interventions in those days. This neglect in blocking pain was due, in part, to the medical profession's ambivalence about the eradication of pain; an ambivalence not entirely lost to this day. For example, when a patient by the name of J. Wombell (age 42) had a leg amputated at the thigh while in a mesmeric trance, he remained quiet and cooperative and had no memory of pain afterwards. He lived another 30 years. The case was given enormous publicity throughout Britain, but doctors were not convinced. Many believed there was collusion between the surgeon and the patient; that Mr. Wombell had been fully awake during the surgery and had been just pretending to have felt no pain.<br />Finally, it is a history of Victorian medical science and its wobbly foundations. Elliotson, who was responsible for introducing the stethoscope to Britain (for which he was much criticized) took up the practice of mesmerism and eventually had to resign hisuniversity post after a series of \\"experiments\\" in which it appeared that his patients were faking their altered states of consciousness. The work of Esdaile, a Scottish surgeon working mesmerically with native patients in Calcutta is given a well deserved full chapter.<br />The book is not forbiddingly esoteric. Its language and concepts are accesible to reasonably well educated readers. Those with interests in psychiatry, or psychology, or sociology, or history, or all things Victorian, will enjoy the work. A mediocre index detracts from perfection; but an excellent bibliography returned this reader's good feelings about the book.	2000-04-19
US	53006845	R3E3OTA9L5TT0F	0151003815	497189879	Word Court: Wherein verbal virtue is rewarded, crimes against the language are punished, and poetic justice is done	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A small treasure, by fermed	If you care about words, spend a few dollars on this little treasure of pleasures. Ms. Wallraff (ah, such a name) is gentle and patient; she is tolerant and easy; her judgments are erudite, informed; whether you took her out to high tea or to a neighborhood tavern, she would easily mingle, and fit, and speak with ease; but behind the nikin exterior lie principles as strong as steel. Don't mess with her. A reference book, yes, but one that can be read from cover to cover without the slightest chance of becoming bored.	2000-04-17
US	53006845	R2I6Y2XWHTBNRW	3829029888	465399801	Curious Moments	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A fun book, by fermed	The cover of this book presents a man shaking hands with a woman. He, Vaimo, is 8 ft, 3 inches tall, and at the time (1937) the tallest man in the world; she, Elizabeth, is 3 ft, 10 inches. The picture is one of the many photos of contrasts found among the 617 images contained in this book. They were selected from a trove of several million captioned newsphotos covering the period from 1900 to 1967, and found in the Sweedish archives SBT Bild. They are loosely organized around themes that act as chapter headings; thus there is a chapter about flying, one about contraptions, another about animals, and so on.The captions are written in English, German and French.<br />The text is simple and informative, and usually reveals the names and the circumstances which occasioned the photograph. There is no grossness, pornography, or violence in the series, although tackiness, cornball shots, and vulgar sentimentality are frequently illustrated. A fun book to have and to display on the coffee table to demonstrate the owner is down to earth and has a sense of humor.	2000-04-16
US	53006845	R35CDF42JYZ7M9	0684846675	111727190	A Corner of the Veil	Books	2	3	9	N	N	Shaggy dog story, by fermed	This is a beautifully translated work. It reads as if it hadbeen written in English, and Linda Asher is to be commended for herseamless rendition from one language to the other. Her judgment in choosing what to bring to the English language, however, is quite faulty. <br />It is an awful little book. Its single theme (God's revelation of His existence) becomes a shaggy dog story unworthy of much more than (may be) a couple of pages. Somehow the book manages to appear to have 271 pages, but don't be fooled: its pages are the short size (4.5 x 7.25 inches) often used in paperbacks; 43 of these pages (16%) contain only the day of the week and the time of day: \\"Monday, 8:32 P.M.\\" for example. In addition it has a foreword and a postface. Thus the book is stretched to give it a certain heft it ill deserves. Its content, a single joke repeated over and over, makes for dismal entertainment. This is a watered down confection lacking in texture, nutrition or flavor. Return it to the kitchen, if possible. Then try another restaurant.	2000-04-13
US	53006845	RV3EMCVRIDFUR	006099486X	418849151	The Professor and the Madman: A Tale of Murder, Insanity, and the Making of The Oxford English Dictionary	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Madness yes, but Victorian madness, by fermed	Some of the readers who have posted their comments (150 so far) have bitterly complained about this book: it is boring, slightly fraudulent, and not informative enough, they say. I sympathize with those points of view and will not argue against them; yet I read the book twice, once soon after it was published, and a few months later after I read James Tully's book \\"Prisoner 1167: the madman who was Jack the Ripper.\\"<br />Both books involve insane murders, and both have their main characters committed to Broadmoor, a notorious asylum near Oxford. For those interested in Victorian thrillers, and certainly for Jack the Ripper aficionados, I highly recommend both books, read together or in close sequence. Aside from the murders that each committed in a fit of paranoia, each made a fair adjustment to incarceration, although eventually they deteriorated:... James Kelly, who escaped Broadmoore after five years, came back much later an impoverished and demented man who wanted to turn himself in to die. Both personages were crazy; and the books that describe them are flawed in similar ways: they are improperly edited, so that each is both too long (in irrelevancies) and too short (in excitement) at the same time.<br />Still, for those with an acquired taste for all things Victorian, this duo will delight and inform. Others best skip both of them.	2000-04-04
US	53006845	R2GK0V213LEXLB	0684840057	505830594	Radical Son: A Generational Odyssey	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A quest for truth, by fermed	Without reading this book it will be difficult to appreciate or evaluate Horowitz's other works (\\"The Politics of Bad Faith\\" and \\"Hating Whitey\\") in which he describes the scams, prevarications, and dishonesty of the left. Like many others in history (Chambers, Koestler, and the millions of refugees from workers' paradises everywhere) Horowitz is an escapee from the tyranny of the left. He was raised a communist by his communist parents, and this books follows his painful ascent towards decency. It is the classic story of a conflict between ideology and personal probity, with the latter becoming in the end victorious. Those on the left cannot abide this kind of writing, for it leaves them naked and vulnerable; therefore they attack Mr. Horowitz's integrity, which happens to be one of his stronger suits. A wonderful book.	2000-04-04
US	53006845	RYQ7ZKK5O0J9P	0151003815	497189879	Word Court: Wherein verbal virtue is rewarded, crimes against the language are punished, and poetic justice is done	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A small treasure, by fermed	If you care about words, spend a few dollars on this little treasure of pleasures. Ms. Wallraff (ah, such a name) is gentle and patient; she is tolerant and easy; her judgements are erudite, informed; if you took her out to high tea or to a neighborhood tavern, she would easily mingle, and fit, and speak with ease; but behind the nikin exterior lie principles as strong as steel. Don't mess with her. A reference book, yes, but one that can be read from cover to cover without the slightest chance of becoming bored.	2000-03-29
US	53006845	R2P1WTOVB5E702	0684850230	293461229	The Politics of Bad Faith: The Radical Assault on America's Future	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Frightening, by fermed	David Horowitz deserves to be read by anyone interested in present or past US political activism. He was raised a communist by communist parents in New York City; he experienced the horrors of the liberation politics of the 60's; he saw and was marginally involved in the murderous brutality of the Black Panthers; eventually his honesty and intelligence forced him to reconsider the issues of political truth and falsity. He is now a conservative. His writings are powerful and laser-like in penetrating the lies and the hypocrisy of the left. \\"The Politics of Bad Faith\\" is just one of his books that should be carefully read. \\"Radical Son,\\" his autobiography, is a lucid picture of the leftist \\"system\\" that is in place in this country, the aim of which is to undermine the constitution and eventually to incrementally destroy our freedoms. As is usual in cases of defectors who reveal the truth, the organized left can only level \\"ad hominem\\" attacks against Horowitz. They simply cannot challenge the reality and the veracity of what he presents. Highly readable and highly recommended. When this book and his autobiography are finished, try \\"Hating Whitey.\\" One can keep up with Horowitz's writing in Salon, the online magazine.	2000-03-28
US	53006845	R1XOFHNGALG0ZA	0785268162	657306852	The Death of Innocence : The Untold Story of JonBenet's Murder and How Its Exploitation Compromised the Pursuit of Truth	Books	1	23	33	N	N	Chutzpah rampant, by fermed	I have followed, from day one, the events that surrounded the death of JonBenet. No one knows the truth of who murdered her (except, of course, the murderers) but I am 99.99% sure that her parents know the hell of a lot more about that murder than they are admitting. Whether or not they themselves (one or the other or both) participated in the slaughter is unknown at this point. Their behavior after the murder -surrounding themselves with the best legal talent available- is simply incompatible with innocence. Truly innocent parents would not complain at being made the object of police suspicion; truly innocent parents would have offered, no, demanded, their own polygraphs and would have accepted being questioned separately by the police; truly innocent parents would have cooperated fully with the authorities in any way the authorities wanted and would made nuisances of themselves at police headquarters by their daily visits. No, this book about their knowing nothing concerning the murder of their daughter does not wash.<br />Says Patsy: \\"Each day John and I hungered for some insight, some idea, some answer to what was going on downtown at police headquarters. Ninety days passed without any word.\\" Oh, my! Could it possibly be that their attorneys had forbidden the police from having any direct contact with the Ramseys without a warrant and without the attorneys being present? This is a whinny, self indulget rant by the suspected perpetrators of the Death of Innocence.	2000-03-26
US	53006845	R1XH9ES0GJ8OUZ	0060393408	962636193	The Case Against Hillary Clinton	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Short, powerful, by fermed	Peggy Noonan's book does not explore new territory about this awful woman. Most people who are interested already know the sordid facts about her political ascent, about her lust for power, and about her fundamental mendacity. William Safire has called her a \\"congenital liar\\" in print, and he was probably being restrained at that. Noonan's work is a meditation on the nature of evil as it is embodied in this woman. It is a short and powerful indictment.<br />For those interested in examining the pernicious effect of Hillary upon her followers, do read the comments of her partisans, below. Not a single one offers any factual argument against the book they pillorize. If any reasons to lambaste the book are stated, they are \\"ad hominem\\" arguments, attacks against Ms. Noonan; never a comment on what she says. One can only hope that New Yorkers will use, to the nation's advantage, the opportunity to educate Miss Hillary come November. It will take not a village but an entire state to stop this horror.	2000-03-25
US	53006845	RYZQ11WV2C30H	0395907284	419114277	Sir Vidia's Shadow: A Friendship Across Five Continents	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Misfits together, by fermed	When properly done I love gossip about great people: their foibles as humans detract not one whit from their accomplishments as artists, or soldiers, or bullfighters, or whatever distinguishes them from mere mortals; evidence of their silliness humanizes them and makes their accomplishments, if anything, more accessible to the common people who admire them. So here is a book by (arguably) the best travel author alive, petulantly describing his conflicts with (arguably) the best living English prose writer. The result is a marvelous tale of adoration, unreasonable expectations, and of a final and total alienation of affections. If this were a fictional story it would lack verisimilitude; but this is reality and one must wonder how these babies managed to leave their playpen long enough to make such powerful literary marks on the world.<br />The book is beautifully written and hard to put down. It shows a clear picture of a wonderfully neurotic Sir Vilia, and a less clear (but still powerful) portrait of the author's evolution as a writer. It is a great entertainment despite the low level quarrels it depicts; it is literary gossip at its very best.	2000-03-22
US	53006845	R2PU8L4UPGXMY6	0805051163	217013243	A Sea of Words: A Lexicon and Companion for Patrick O'Brian's Seafaring Tales	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Indispensable. A joy., by fermed	I checked about 60 English words from this lexicon against the OED and (of course) they were all there. But this book is much more than merely a list of word definitions: it contains drawings, and maps, and pictures, French phrases, and assorted little essays that make the reading of the Aubrey-Maturin books with this lexicon at hand a far richer experience than reading them without it. The definitions are as a rule expanded and less dry than what one finds in the dictionary. I read this book page after page, as if it were a single essay, or a long poem. Alone, it stands as a great reference; in symbiosis with O'Brian's saga, it is magnificent.	2000-03-20
US	53006845	RYSSR4F6PQMMX	038549341X	277823768	Actual Innocence: Five Days to Execution, and Other Dispatches From the Wrongly Convicted	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Justice, by fermed	Even though the authors of this book are liberal members of the defense bar, what they have to say is so terribly important that I can't see any decent person taking an opposing view. The book addresses matters which are as fundamental to liberty as the Bill of Rights, and it should be read by all citizens interested in true justice.<br />In 1880 an article in \\"Nature\\" Faulds and Hershel described the uniqueness and permanency of dermal ridges, and this led to the development of fingerprintingas an identification procedure which in time was used by police departments the world over. For a hundred years fingerprinting remained a principal method of criminal identification. Then in 1984, the geneticist Ala Jeffreys noted that certain sequences of DNA are repeated in patterns so unique that only those sharing the same genetic material share identical DNA patterns. Now DNA is the premier method of identification of humans, including in matters dealing with crime, paternity or disease.<br />The point of this book is to promote the use of DNA typing as a means of exonerating innocent people who have been wrongly convicted of crimes; and its reverse: of confirming a criminal's identity. The authors use case histories of wrongly convicted innocents powerful enought to send shivers down one's back. Along with advocating DNA testing, they push for better criminal laboratories, and for a range of improvements in forensic matters having to do with identification.<br />This is a gripping, informative and worthwhile book. Highly recommended.	2000-03-19
US	53006845	R3W0JINBZYEJYY	0679449450	89406899	The Aryan Christ: The Secret Life of Carl Jung	Books	4	7	11	N	N	Truth and Psychopolitics, by fermed	One has as much right to expect to know the \\"secret truth\\" about Jung as to hope for the \\"secret truth\\" about Freud. Both of these thinkers were masters at public relations, both were great writers, and both sought to establish orthodoxies of true believers who would burnish their official pronouncements and preserve their doctrines while hiding the more sordid realities of their lives. Both left legacies of letters, manuscripts and notes in archives that have been kept locked and away from snooping researchers. For those reasons, neither Freud nor Jung will sit still for any sort of \\"Secret Life\\" type of protrait book.<br />Having said that, it is quite delightful to read about this man's insane manner of living his life, about the extraordinary conceptualizations in which he regarded himself and others, and about his persistent manipulations, deceits, and grandiosities. Whether the book is substantially true or not, one often takes a perverse pleasure in reading about a psychiatrist who is presented as being more functionally disturbed (and disturbing) than most of his own patients. The book is fun and easy to read; one can learn something about Jung from it as long as one keeps a healthy skepticism about his overall portrayal.	2000-03-19
US	53006845	R1J2JOQISCMB0K	0895262746	350670764	Hell to Pay: The Unfolding Story of Hillary Rodham Clinton	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The devastating truth about Ms. Clinton, by fermed	A clinical look at a neurotic, evil person. Carefully written and excellently documented, the book reveals a vulgar and humorless individual with zero insight who actually believes herself to be a beneficial political force. Contrary to all the evidence, she sees herself as caring, full of concern for others, and decent.<br />New Yorkers should take notice and vote to stunt any further growth of this virus on the body politic. Those from New York who have commented here have certainly not been fooled by Ms. Clinton: of the 127 reviews posted before mine, 13 have come from New Yorkers. Of these, 4 have been negative and dismissed the book as \\"lies.\\" They therefore rated it with one star. But nine blessed it and gave it 4 (1) or 5 (8) stars. Let us hope that the wisdom of this distribution holds in the November ballot, as it surely will if lots of New Yorkers read this book.	2000-03-15
US	53006845	R3V036NFUHFUKI	0385498292	778801859	Bruce Chatwin: A Biography	Books	2	5	5	N	N	Good reference. Not fun to read, by fermed.	This is a long book and a tedious one. I kept reading it in the hope that I would \\"get into it,\\" but when it was finally over I hadn't. Perhaps not liking it was my problem; perhaps my expectations were too great. I knew this man was a controversial but interesting figure, whose book \\"In Patagonia\\" had moved me deeply years ago; I expected great things from his biography.<br />Was it Nicholas Shakespeare's prose? I don't know. It is hard to believe that one could be bored reading about such a hyperactive, outrageous and exciting adventurer. Much as I hate putting down the author's obviously monumental effort, I look forward to the day when Bruce Chatwin's life will be written about with the same vibrancy, intensity and verve with which he lived it.<br />There is no doubt that the book is of great value as a reference and a resource about Chatwin and his life. But a good read it is not.	2000-03-10
US	53006845	RMJ7JMM5RUHYK	0805059768	665867607	Patrick O'Brian :  A Life Revealed	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Biography at its best, by fermed	This is a book about the life of a writer: about his formative years, about his tumultuous family, about his persistence as a writer, and about his very late and final success and recognition for having authored the Aubrey-Matutin series. It is a well researched work, with author Dean King obviously taking delight in the thoroughness and lavishness he invested in this work (Patrick's brother Mike, if you must know, was the navigator of a Lancaster bomber that was shot down over Germany in WW II. He is buried in the Reichwald Forest Cemetery, Plot 3, row A, grave 6).<br />Patrick O'Brian was the son of a physician and a gentle and beautiful woman who died when he was six. By age 15 he had written and published his first novel. Thereafter he devoted himself to writing, generally with good critical success. In 1945, for reasons unknown, he changed his legal name from Russ to O'Brien and started to allow new acquaintances to think of him as being from Ireland.In his 30's at that time, he had been married and divorced and was the father of a boy and a girl with spina bifida, who died at age three. One of the dark and disturbing spots in his life was the abandonment of that family. He eventually settled in the south of France, where his wrote the Aubrey-Maturin series.<br />O'Brian's success did not rush at him; on the contrary, for years he eked out a living by doing French translations (such as the works of Simone de Beauvoir and the novel Papillon) and by taking on literary assignments of one sort or another. It was one of these assignments (\\"try your hand at another sea novel\\") that led to the publication of the first of the Aubrey-Maturin novels (\\"Master and Commander\\") in 1967. The book and those that followed were well received but read only by a relatively small group of aficionados. In 23 years he had written 13 novels of the series series, all of superb quality, when at last in 1990, at age 75, he became famous practically overnight. A British critic called theintelligentsia's failure to recognize his talents any sooner \\"as baffling as the Inca inability to invent the wheeel.\\"<br />I could not put the book down. It is a rich, complex, detailed, balanced, and above all, fair biography. Its subject was a secretive and private individual who was entirely non-cooperative on the theme of his own biography. He obviusly abhorred the idea of the violations of privacy inherent in such a work. Ironically, O'Brian had unflinchingly done to Pablo Picasso (another non-cooperating, private subject) precisely what Don King has done to him: written about his life (\\"Pablo Ruiz Picasso: A Biography). <br />Patrick O'Brian died a couple of months ago (January 2000), and therefore is not around to be aggravated by this work. I am glad about that part, for now one can read his biography with pleasure, umarred by mental images of an angry and resentful Mr. O'Brian fuming about the book in the south of France.	2000-03-04
US	53006845	R2AVLMJEV0QJCH	0714828106	350316319	Stanley Spencer	Books	4	10	10	N	N	An Introduction, by fermed	Duncan Robinson is a professor at Yale, and his book on Stanley Spencer is a fine introduction to this mad eccentric from Cookham-on-Thames. Not long ago (1998) there was an exhibit of Spencer's work that traveled the United States, and so his name in this country is not as unknown as it used to be. Whether one is familiar with his work or not, this is a well balanced and nicely printed book, with over 100 reproductions, of which at least half are in color. I keep the book handy and have given copies of it to unsuspecting friends and relatives, who then (usually) become addicts of Mr. Spencer.<br />For those who have never seen Spencer's work, I certainly recommend using the internet as a first step in getting a feel for what he biographical and bibliographical information (although Robinson's book is not mentioned). The main drawback about looking at pictures on the internet is that many are so small and distorted that they dishonor the works they are trying to show; still, a visual approach is more effective than trying to describe the work of this extraordinary painter verbally. The pictures in Robinson's book, in contrast, are excellent reproductions and quite adequate as a means of presenting Spencer's work. I took a copy of this book to his exhibit and was satisfied with the quality of the reproductions one of England's most important painters of the 20th century.	2000-03-02
US	53006845	R3DCW8ZXXXLZHE	0786707046	599820512	Churchill: Wanted Dead or Alive	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Family History, by fermed	History written this way, by a descendant about her famous ancestor (Churchill in this case) is both rare and enchanting. The author found stimulation by retracing her grandfather's Boer War steps physically and by seeking out the children and grandchildren of people who interacted with the famous man one hundred years ago.We are fortunate to have a story of the early Churchill told to us this way, in the voice of a young woman not yet born when he was already demonstrating the steel of his determination and his fearlessness. There is love and amazement in Celia Sandys's voice as she covers the subject of her grandfather's exploits. Her encounters with the descendants of those who knew Churchill are rendered with authenticity and warmth. I suspect that the author may easily have lost control over her material (untamed and full of incredibly exciting action) but she did not. For the amateur historian this book is a delight; Churchill connoisseurs will, of course, love it; and for the occasional reader it will be a rare pleasure.	2000-02-09
US	53006845	R1WICD2ETMN536	0375400338	10121616	The Sorcerer's Apprentice: Picasso, Provence, and Douglas Cooper	Books	4	17	18	N	N	Delicious/Malicious Fun, by fermed	John Richardson has set aside his scholarly masterpiece (A Life of Picasso: Volumes I & II completed, Volumes III & IV eagerly awaited)to produce something bubbly and light; it is not soda-pop, though, but vintage champagne. Far different from the careful and meticulous research of his Picasso oeuvre, The Sorcerer's Apprentice is a welcome intermission and a clearing of the palate.<br />Richardson writes about himself and his friends, and especially about his love affair with Douglas Cooper (\\"The Sorcerer\\" of the title), art collector, critic and expert on cubism from whom Richardson learned a great deal, both good and bad.The book illuminates not only the relationship between the older, impossible, Cooper and his young apprentice, but also back lights aspects of Picasso, Braque, Lèger and Juan Gris as they are reflected in the tumultuous lives of that odd couple.<br />The author is an inveterate gossip, as good biographers should be. He likes to tell the little details that deflate or humanize others. He does not have the malice of Capote (although sometimes he comes close), and he is obviously too amiable and forgiving to twist the knife or seek idle revenge.<br />One cannot be sure about the motives that led to putting out this light froth between the serious stuff; I am glad it is out there, though, and glad I read it. Being taken into Mr. Richardson's confidence and getting to know him will make the enjoyment of his next Picasso volumes all the more intense.	2000-02-05
US	53006845	R17EHAAJC3N90R	0864425228	594164729	Lonely Planet Canary Islands (1st ed)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A "must" item if you are to visit the islands, by fermed	I happen to know something about the Canaries, the birthplace of my parents and my stamping grounds until I left to attend universities elsewhere. I have read many books about the islands (in lieu of returning there, alas) and I must say that this little volume is a jewel. It is meticulously accurate, historically satisfying, full of intriguing trivia about the islands, and all in the size of a pocket book. It is by no means a \\"picture book,\\" but a travel book with a few nice pictures thrown in. It is very well researched: are the birds named after the islands, and the islands named after the abundant dogs (canes) the Romans found when they visited? Or did they acquire their name from the Canarii tribe, a Berber group from N. Africa? Who knows, but the book addresses the birds and the dogs and Nelson's right arm. High above London's Trafalgar square is the one-armed statue of Nelson. Any Canary islander will inform you the missing arm was lost on the island of Tenerife, where the Admiral came ashore when he was not welcome.<br />The book gives you all the necessary addresses, telephone numbers, prices, \\"do's and dont's,\\" and the etceteras needed for a comfortable and enlightened trip to the islands. D. Simonis uses a clear and concise language without complications, and he leavens it with wit and occasional sarcasm. I hope this type of travel book becomes a model for others. A \\"must\\" item if you are to visit the islands.	1999-07-18
US	53006845	R21FO4T5RLSPP1	0691029172	776108374	Clear and Simple As the Truth: Writing Classic Prose	Books	5	16	20	N	N	A powerful tonic for writers, by fermed	This book is strong stuff for those who write during the course of the day (or the week) but for whom writing is not necessarily central to their lives: attorneys, psychologists, historians, politicians, clergymen and teachers, policemen, executives of all sorts and those who write to complain or to praise, to damn, to bid farewell or to congratulate; physicians, pharmacists, students, housewives and grocery clerks; and of course, those who write in order to post to the internet or to present opinions about a book to Amazon dot com.<br />It is shocking to be told (once more, perhaps) that writing has to do with thinking and not with verbal skills or the domination of a language; those who take pride in drafting elegant prose are often jolted by the notion that the shiny surfaces they so carefully buff have little meaning or usefulness unless they are being supported by clear and precise thoughts from below.<br />On first reading I found the book disturbing and irritating. Rather than being asked, or being led by the hand towards the utopic writing the title of the book suggests, I found myself being shoved, a little impatiently, into considering what writing is all about. Yet there is nothing in the book that asks you to do things differently when you write, or even to consider your own prose; still, as you move along you become aware of some terrible things you have done in your writing and you promise yourself to mend your ways. But how? The book is certainly not prescriptive in a concrete sense; it is aspirational only. The book does not tell you how to improve your writing, but as you read you sense that it will probably improve nevertheless. While one senses true authoritarianism tucked away somewhere, its presence is not seen, and therefore it is impossible to oppose. There is no list of commandments, no methodology, no magic steps. It is by no means a \\"how to\\" book.<br />The book ranges very widely: Thucydides, Borges, Twain, Alan Greenspan, Euclides and theAudoborn Society Field Guide to North American Birds, Eastern Region, are among the hundreds of writers and works quoted and exhibited as demonstrating either good (\\"classic\\") and not so good writing. Lest the reader be put off by the word \\"classic\\" (prissy and elitist, pehaps) the following is an exhibit of classic writing cited in the book, taken from an anonymous brochure of a medical clinic: \\"Hemorrhoids are actually varicose veins of the rectum.\\"<br />The book stretches and exercises the mind, forcing better writing as a consequence.	1999-06-15
US	53006845	RCAYUG8ZC37SO	0870125966	227184944	Jon Benet's Mother: The Tragedy and The Truth!	Books	1	8	9	N	N	A book based on love and friendship, not on facts, by fermed	Written as a 'cri de coeur,' a work of love and friendship towards the Ramseys, the book is careful to avoid any isue that would taint the image of the Ramseys as a perfect couple: perfect lovers, perfect friends, perfect parents, perfect citizens. There is an irony in painting such a picture: the book contains the classic information that is offered in court after a person has been convicted of a crime: relatives, ministers, fellow workers, and whoever is willing to utter a favorable remembrance of the convict is brought before the court to try to mitigate the severity of whatever sentence is about to be passed. <br />This short book is packed with pictures (I counted 69) of the Ramseys at home and at play. It contains dozens of letters and snippets by those who love the family: some were quite moving; but there are no new iterpretations of the facts, and certainly no new facts pertaining to the murder of JonBenét. The book is not about the murder, but rather about what fine people the Ramseys are.	1999-03-22
US	53006845	R1ZQIOCTIMSVB6	1572302410	632501134	Sexual Deviance: Theory, Assessment, and Treatment	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Scholarly, thorough, but easy to read, by fermed	It is difficult to find books about human sexuality which are both solidly scientific and easy to read. This one is both. Its contents follow a consistent pattern for each diagnostic entity and these stick as closely as possible to DSM-IV (the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, American Psychiatric Association). Thus, each entity is introduced by descriptive considerations (diagnostic criteria, age of onset, etc.), epidemological factors (prevalence, incidence, risk), associated features, forensic issues, review of theories of etiology, and assessment of future directions. <br />The material covered is ample and includes most of the specific sexual deviances in the literature. Each chapter is followed by an extensive, recent bibliography. This is a text book and also a fine reference for people in mental health, law enforcement, and any profession involved with issues of human sexuality and it many ramifications. <br />It is not recommended for those who seek to indulge their prurient interests. A scholarly tone is maintained throughout the book, and it imparts its information in a straightforward and highly legible form. It does not attempt to obscure facts with unintelligible language.It navigates with a steady hand the treacherous waters that lie between prudery and prurience.	1999-01-03
US	53006845	R2VJXC69GPROEF	0226493636	411166366	More Guns, Less Crime: Understanding Crime and Gun Control Laws (Studies in Law and Economics)	Books	5	11	16	N	N	Scholarly and thorough, by fermed	Regardless of your position on this passionate issue, you should at least hold the book in your hands. If you are in favor of responsible citizens being allowed to carry concealed weapons, you will find massive support for such a view. Lott looks at all sorts of related issues such as death by hand guns in homes, involving adults; changes in suicide rates with guns in the homes; accidental deaths of children involving firearms in the homes; on and on the salient points are discussed objectively. He makes statistically sophisticated (and intellectually satisfying) analyses comparing the crime rates of cities, counties and states with varying degrees of gun control and under varying demographic and socioeconomic conditions. If you oppose gun ownership, you too should read this book, for it is bound to become the weapon with which your position will be bludgeoned. Don't make a fool of yourself by estimating the number of 5 year-olds or younger who die every year in this country from gun accidents in the home. It is not in the thousands. It is 30; Don't propose that women carrying concealed guns are at a higher risk of suffering injuries or death than those who do not. Such is not the case. To argue the anti-gun position with authority, try debating it with this book. It is a good exercise.	1998-08-22
US	53006845	R1SJT7M7IY5ZWK	0679439331	595006110	The Everlasting Story of Nory: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A trip into the head of a nine year-old, by fermed	There is not word in English to describe the opposite of a crime, but if there were, it would surely define this novel. It is quite frankly a pro-life, pro-honesty, pro-love, pro-decency, and a pro-preadolescent female (or male) book.<br />One is rarely taken by an author inside the head of another human being in as gentle, thorough, and exquisite a way as it happens here. Nory is very real -- too real to contribute much excitement to the action of the book (the book has very little action, therefore). The excitement comes from our being able to permeate this incompletely formed mind, to perceive the world through her immature cognitive mechanisms, and to peer upon a world we recognize but which is fundamentally different from our own. It is a magical trasposition that Baker performs between us and Nory. One should turn to this book when life is especially mean, or humdrum.	1998-07-15
