US	53006770	R2M5I7ZSMQHZ2K	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Keep Your Friends Close and Your Enemies Even Closer	I found this book absolutely fascinating and it has now inspired me to read some other biographies on those men who formed the principles by which we live today.  Fortunately for the author,  most of the members of the Adams family were prolific letter writers helping us to get a peak inside their eighteenth century world.  These letters have become the foundation of so much of the historical fact of that time.<br />As I was reading about the difficulties between Adams and Franklin and then between Adams and Jefferson, I couldn't stop thinking about that saying, &quot;Keep your friends close and your enemies even closer&quot; because John Adams, in his quest to be a good American, did in fact make some enemies. It's amazing that he made it to the Presidency with all the animosity surrounding him.<br />I'm certainly not going to relate the story as told by the author in this book as there are five hundred other reviews that can tell you that.  What I'd like to share are the things that amazed me.  Sure I studied John Adams in school but can one truly study a leader of our country without reading an in depth biography?  I don't think so.<br />Things that surprised me....<br />I was blown away to learn that everyone who was nominated actually ran for President and the runner up became Vice President.  I don't remember learning that years ago.  It gave me a good laugh to think of George Bush today with Al Gore as his Vice President.<br />I was also shocked that Adams kept Washington's cabinet basically in tact when he assumed office, even though many of them were from an opposing party.  What was he thinking?<br />The book certainly does not show Thomas Jefferson (very liberal), Alexander Hamilton (a conspirator) and Ben Franklin (should have been French) in the best light.  My mission now is to read these biographies to see if McCullough was being biased or objective.<br />Adams was a huge proponent of the Navy and here are two great quotes from him....<br />&quot;Peace was attainable only as a consequence of America's growing naval strength.&quot;<br />&quot;A strong defense and a desire for peace are compatible.&quot;<br />Now there's some food for thought.<br />And here is the most amazing bit of trivia I learned while reading this book.....<br />John Adams, signer of the Declaration of Independence, died on July 4, 1826 on the 50th anniversary of this signing.<br />Thomas Jefferson, signer of the Declaraton of Independence, died on July 4, 1826 on the 50th anniversary of this signing.<br />I can't get over this coincidence.  These two founding fathers died on the same day within hours of each other....the most momentous anniversary of not only their lives but of ours as well.<br />I have come to the conclusion that John Adams was a true patriot who wanted only to serve his country in the only way he knew how......honestly.e was attainable only as a consequence of America's growing naval strength.&quot;<BR>&quot;A strong defense and a desire for peace are compatible.&quot;<br />Now there's some food for thought.<br />And here is the most amazing bit of trivia I learned while reading this book.....<br />John Adams, signer of the Declaration of Independence, died on July 4, 1826 on the 50th anniversary of this signing.<br />Thomas Jefferson, signer of the Declaraton of Independence, died on July 4, 1826 on the 50th anniversary of this signing.<br />I can't get over this coincidence.  These two founding fathers died on the same day within hours of each other....the most momentous anniversary of not only their lives but of ours as well.<br />I have come to the conclusion that John Adams was a true patriot who wanted only to serve his country in the only way he knew how......honestly.	2004-03-21
US	53006770	R1LBF57H6UNYLN	0743227050	558968207	The Last Summer: A Novel	Books	3	3	4	N	N	The LAST Summer -- Thank Goodness	I bought this book with the intention of reading it while at the shore two summers ago thinking it would be a light read for the beach.  While it took me nearly twenty months to finally get around to reading it, it probably would have been a much better \\"summer\\" book than a \\"winter\\" book.  When I purchased it, I thought it might be middle of the road \\"light reading\\".  Well, it's so light you could probably finish it in one sitting.<br />After reading the rest of the reviews here, I thought perhaps I had read a different book than some of the other reviewers.  While it was an \\"okay\\" story, in no way would I call the book engrossing or compelling.  The characters are all so deadpan that I'm surprised they were able to live through 342 pages.<br />I also thought I would relate well to this book because it takes place in 1968 when I was a teenager.  Somehow it missed the target there for me as well only focusing on the assassination of RFK, Jr. and the Vietnam War.<br />As the story goes, thirty-seven year old Claire Malek leaves her job in Washington D.C. with no severance pay and no chance of any references. The reader knows that this spur-of-the-moment decision to leave is probably the result of foul play in our nation's capital as Claire was a \\"special\\" assistant to a state Senator.  How \\"special\\" of an assistant was she the reader wonders?  It doesn't take a rocket scientist to figure it out.<br />She settles on Cape Cod with her fifteen year old daughter April and gets a job as a writer/reporter for The Covenant, the local newspaper.  It doesn't take long for attractive Claire to catch the eye of the editor's twenty-two year old son Lane.  It seems that the fifteen year old age difference isn't that much of a deterrent to this love affair.  If this was set in the year 2004, it might have been more believable to me but having grown up in the sixties, I found this hard to swallow especially when Lane's family is so accepting of their relationship.<br />As a backdrop to this affair, there is a murder mystery that comes to a very abrupt conclusion.  I felt this could have been drawn out a bit more.  Someone mentioned in another review that the author came from a family of newspaper people so perhaps this story is semi-autobiographical and this really happened to him when he was younger.  That would be the only thing that could make it palpable for me.<br />All in all, I give it three stars.  As Dick Clark would have said in the sixties, \\"It had a good beat but it missed its mark.\\"op to this affair, there is a murder mystery that comes to a very abrupt conclusion.  I felt this could have been drawn out a bit more.  Someone mentioned in another review that the author came from a family of newspaper people so perhaps this story is semi-autobiographical and this really happened to him when he was younger.  That would be the only thing that could make it palpable for me.<br />All in all, I give it three stars.  As Dick Clark would have said in the sixties, \\"It had a good beat but it missed its mark.\\"	2004-03-20
US	53006770	R1CS99AVU9MW2K	1400045045	735398183	The Blood Doctor: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Magnificent &quot;BLOOD&quot; Obsession	All indications, when looking at the cover of this book, lead the reader to believe that this will be one of Vine's psychological thrillers.  I figured that some surgeon, obsessed with blood, would be traveling the British Isles with scalpel in hand looking for his next victim.  But the reader of this book must look a little closer at the two words following the title, THE BLOOD DOCTOR.  Those two words are &quot;A Novel.&quot;  This changes everything.<br />More on the lines of Vine's A Chimney Sweeper's Boy, this book is not a thriller but does test the psyche of its main character, Martin Nanther, as he takes on the task of writing his great grandfather's biography.  I always wonder what compels an author to write under a pseudonym as Ruth Rendall does when she writes as Barbara Vine.  A Chimney Sweeper's Boy and The Blood Doctor, both written under the Vine name, are perfect examples of why an author would do this.  They are both such a departure from the books written under Rendall's real name.  While both are dark and mysterious at times, Vines's books take on a different edge as they weave in and out of the lives of her characters and almost no one escapes scrutiny.  This book is such an amazing achievement....so amazing that I couldn't stop thinking about it every time I was forced to put it down to get on with my daily life.<br />As I mentioned already, Martin Nanther, frustrated author, decides to write about his great grandfather's life.  The research involved is so very interesting because Henry Nanther lived in the nineteenth century, was a physician to Queen Victoria and also specialized in hemophilia (a disease very familiar to Queen Victoria and her royal family)....thus the title of the book.  When Martin discovers hemophilia in some of Henry's own descendants, the plot thickens and Martin is determined to find its roots as he interviews every distant cousin he can find.  This research is also aided by letters written by Henry's children as well as Henry's own journal entries.<br />At the same time he is doing all this research, Martin is waging war with his own inner demons as his wife of four years is obsessed with having a child...a child that Martin is not looking forward to having.  As she continually miscarries, Martin is at a loss to show the empathy he should be feeling but just can't muster. As if this isn't enough stress for one individual, Martin is about to be stripped of his hereditary peerage, and the income that goes along with it, as the House of Lords is being reformed.  This is a peerage he inherited from none other than his great grandfather Henry.  I found this part of the book so very fascinating as I know so little about the workings of the English government.<br />So between his great grandfather's obsession with blood, Queen Victoria's hemophiliac royal family, the work involved in researching a biography, a wife who miscarries for no apparent reason and learning about the inner workings of the House of Lords, this book was more than I ever anticipated.  You know that feeling when you're not expecting a &quot;great&quot; book and you get one.  It's not Rendall and her psychological thrillers....it's Vine at her best writing &quot;A Novel.&quot;Henry's own journal entries.<br />At the same time he is doing all this research, Martin is waging war with his own inner demons as his wife of four years is obsessed with having a child...a child that Martin is not looking forward to having.  As she continually miscarries, Martin is at a loss to show the empathy he should be feeling but just can't muster. As if this isn't enough stress for one individual, Martin is about to be stripped of his hereditary peerage, and the income that goes along with it, as the House of Lords is being reformed.  This is a peerage he inherited from none other than his great grandfather Henry.  I found this part of the book so very fascinating as I know so little about the workings of the English government.<br />So between his great grandfather's obsession with blood, Queen Victoria's hemophiliac royal family, the work involved in researching a biography, a wife who miscarries for no apparent reason and learning about the inner workings of the House of Lords, this book was more than I ever anticipated.  You know that feeling when you're not expecting a &quot;great&quot; book and you get one.  It's not Rendall and her psychological thrillers....it's Vine at her best writing &quot;A Novel.&quot;	2004-03-20
US	53006770	R2LW94BPC21187	0312322755	75092431	The Memoir Club	Books	5	22	24	N	N	&quot;Misty Watercolor Memories&quot;	This book was my first introduction to Kalpakian and I purchased it for two reasons...I was drawn to the beautiful cover and I was enticed by the premise of six women taking a college extension course in memoir writing and, consequently, forming friendships beyond the classroom.  I had thoughts of two of my other favorite female &quot;bonding&quot; books -- The Saving Graces by Patricia Gaffney and Angry Housewives Eating Bon Bons by Lorna Landvik.<br />I think this book started off much slower than the two books I've already mentioned but once it got going, I simply could not put it down.  I actually stayed up reading until 2:30AM because I couldn't go to sleep without knowing how it would end.  It's much deeper than others I've read with similar premises yet Kalpakian doesn't dwell on the gloom and doom of some of their pasts.  She instead celebrates their futures.<br />You definitely don't fall in love with these characters even though they're well drawn out by the author.  Perhaps they're too real -- like anyone else you might meet in your daily life.  There seems to be more meat in their stories (their memoirs) giving the author the ability to flesh them out without being too obvious about it.<br />Through the memoirs they're writing in their extension class, the reader gets to glimpse their past lives and it's a great way to go back in time within the confines of the book.  The most interesting thing the women in the memoir class learn is that &quot;the memoir is not and should never be confused with the truth...As a result, truth belongs to the teller.&quot;  So, while the memoir is the &quot;teller's&quot; truth, it might not essentially be &quot;the truth.&quot;  While writing these memoirs, each of these women will come upon secrets in their past that might not be as truthful as they want their pasts to be.<br />I highly recommend this book and encourage the reader to join these women as they delve into their pasts and form a new future together at the same time.<br />I would, however, be remiss if I didn't mention something that almost ruined this book for me.  In the first sentence of the &quot;Acknowledgments&quot;, the author thanks her editor for her &quot;wise editorial eye.&quot;  My advice to her editor is twofold...get a pair of eyeglasses and go back and get a refresher course in English grammar.  There are no less than twenty different errors in this book.  When I hit the first one or two, I shook my head and moved on.  When there got to be more than one on the same page, I got angry.  If we as readers are willing to spend good money on a hardcover book, I realize that the publisher can't always guarantee that we'll love the story but they should be promising a well-edited book.  Shame on you St. Martin's Press.e time.<br />I would, however, be remiss if I didn't mention something that almost ruined this book for me.  In the first sentence of the &quot;Acknowledgments&quot;, the author thanks her editor for her &quot;wise editorial eye.&quot;  My advice to her editor is twofold...get a pair of eyeglasses and go back and get a refresher course in English grammar.  There are no less than twenty different errors in this book.  When I hit the first one or two, I shook my head and moved on.  When there got to be more than one on the same page, I got angry.  If we as readers are willing to spend good money on a hardcover book, I realize that the publisher can't always guarantee that we'll love the story but they should be promising a well-edited book.  Shame on you St. Martin's Press.	2004-01-25
US	53006770	R3MPUJK5K6YA1P	0312319142	298733702	Paranoia	Books	5	33	36	N	N	FINDER HAS NO REASON TO BE PARANOID -- HE'S TERRIFIC	I first came upon this author when the movie High Crimes, starring Ashley Judd, was being premiered.  As soon as I heard it was an adaptation of a book, I knew I wanted to read the book first before seeing the movie.  I ended up loving both the book and the movie and was eager to read something else by this author.<br />Then, along came Paranoia....Finder's newest release.  I was a bit anxious when I started it because I wanted it to be as good as High Crimes.  I needn't have worried.  Paranoia was terrific but the best discovery of all was the realization that this author was the &quot;real deal.&quot;  We all have our preferred authors --the ones whose books we buy as soon as they come out.  I'm happy to now add Finder to my list.<br />My favorite kind of book has always been the one where events spiral so out of control that you can't imagine the main character being able to get back on track in one piece.  You know the kind of book I'm talking about -- a virtual roller coaster ride.  Typical examples would be The Big Picture by Douglas Kennedy, Derailed by James Siegel and A Simple Plan by Scott Smith just to name a few.  Paranoia now tops my list as my new favorite heart-stopping thriller.  Finder has managed to put the reader right smack in the middle of a power struggle between two invincible high-tech companies with Adam Cassidy as the referee/spy.<br />Prior to the day when Adam Cassidy's life changed forever, he was a lackadaisical employee of Wyatt Telecom.  The CEO of that company soon discovers Adam's involvement in some illegal disbursement of company monies to pay for an employee's retirement party.  To compound matters, this party ended up costing the company $78,000.00.  Now the CEO has Adam where he wants him and threatens him with prison unless he agrees to plant himself as an employee/spy with Trion Systems, Wyatt's biggest competitor.  This is very risky for Adam as it is a no-win situation.  If he doesn't do what Wyatt is asking, he'll go to jail.  If he's caught leaking secrets by his new employer, Trion Systems, he'll go to jail.  Adam accepts the risk just to buy some time never realizing what he's getting himself into.<br />I can honestly say that my heart was in my throat on many occasions as Adam tries to sneak information out of Trion and into Wyatt's hands.  But when Adam starts to feel some loyalty towards his new employer, all hell breaks loose.<br />I'm not going to tell you anymore for fear of giving anything away.  Just trust me when I say that you will love this book.  It's a win-win situation for the reader. Joseph Finder has now gotten himself one loyal new fan.il.  If he's caught leaking secrets by his new employer, Trion Systems, he'll go to jail.  Adam accepts the risk just to buy some time never realizing what he's getting himself into.<br />I can honestly say that my heart was in my throat on many occasions as Adam tries to sneak information out of Trion and into Wyatt's hands.  But when Adam starts to feel some loyalty towards his new employer, all hell breaks loose.<br />I'm not going to tell you anymore for fear of giving anything away.  Just trust me when I say that you will love this book.  It's a win-win situation for the reader. Joseph Finder has now gotten himself one loyal new fan.	2004-01-25
US	53006770	R1Z7BJXG0EOZPO	0312283679	380834195	Summer People: A Novel	Books	5	52	52	N	N	MY FAVORITE BOOK FOR THE &quot;SUMMER OF 2003&quot;	Last summer, I read Nantucket Nights, also by Elin Hilderbrand, and it was my favorite book for the &quot;Summer of 2002.&quot;  When I heard that she had a new book coming out for this summer, I had hopes that it might be almost as good as last summer's favorite but had never anticipated that it would be even better.  I can honestly say that I could not put this book down -- that's how good it was.<br />As proven in her previous books, Hilderbrand is a master at dealing with family dynamics.  In the opening of this book, Beth Archer and her two teenage children are leaving their luxury Manhattan apartment and are heading to their Nantucket summer home.  This will be the first time, however, that she is returning as a widow -- her husband recently died in a plane crash just months ago.  Also accompanying her and her 17 year old twins is Marcus, another 17 year old from Queens whose mother has just been convicted of murder.  The recently deceased Archer Newton was defending Marcus' mother at the time of his death and, before he died, he had extended the invitation to Marcus.  Beth feels it's only right to honor this invitation if for no other reason than to fulfill her dead husband's wishes.<br />The next few months will see the twins exploring new relationships while Beth learns to deal with life without her partner.  Hilderbrand is great at filling her books with hot summers spent on Nantucket island where past secrets abound waiting to be revealed.  This book is no exception as the reader will find secrets hiding in every chapter.  While this is an &quot;excellent&quot; beach read, I'd recommend it anytime of the year.<br />I'd also like to add that the covers of all of Hilderbrand's books are so appealing that I'm drawn to each and every one of them.  So can you judge a book by its cover?????  In Hilderbrand's case you can.	2003-09-30
US	53006770	R3EMNY5QHSE3RJ	0375418423	650435497	"E" is for Evidence (A Kinsey Millhone Mystery)	Books	3	13	17	N	N	"E" IS FOR ENIGMA	I think that all of Grafton's fans will agree that picking up one of her books is like sitting down with a good friend to have a chat and a cup of coffee.  I don't think anyone who reads these books doesn't feel some kind of kinship with Kinsey Milhone.  When I first settle in and begin my read, by the third chapter or so I want to jump into the book, get her a bigger apartment, replace that black dress she keeps in the trunk of her car and help her find some kind of love life.<br />But before any of this can happen, Kinsey has to yet, once again, untangle a mess.  This time, however, it's her own mess because she's being framed.  A mysterious five thousand dollar deposit appears in her checking account and, while we all know Kinsey could use the money, there's no way she can sit still until she finds out where it came from.  This will lead her on a search for insurance fraud after a thorough investigation of a fire site.  Kinsey is familiar with the owners of this company as she went to high school with one of the girls in the family.  As she's rekindling old acquaintances, things are heating up in her investigation.  Fires are sizzling, bombs are exploding and things aren't what they seem to be -- what else is new?<br />So why only three stars you ask?  I was really enjoying this book until I got to the end.  By missing one sentence in a previous chapter, I didn't understand the ending when I got to it.  Consequently, I had to go back and reread the last twenty or so pages just so it would make sense (which it did).  I just don't like having to do that.  When I read a book, especially one as simple as this alphabet series, the ending should all come together more easily than this one did.  It shouldn't just hinge on one sentence.  And, that's why \\"E\\" was an enigma to me.  After I finished it the first time, I was still puzzled.<br />Now it's on to \\"F\\" with hopes that the ending will be more to my liking and that \\"F\\" will stand for \\"Fantastic.\\"	2003-05-23
US	53006770	R7RZVPKR8OW2F	0812966902	855322846	A Dog Year: Twelve Months, Four Dogs, and Me	Books	3	55	67	N	N	TWO'S COMPANY -- THREE'S A CROWD	I really wanted to love this book.  How could I not with a picture of a Border Collie on the cover?  After all, I am a border collie owner....an owner who adopted an abused border collie six years ago.  To say that my life has changed for the better since then would be an understatement.  Of course, these aren't feelings only reserved for owners of border collies as all of my friends who are dog owners feel the same way.  There is a magic in having a dog in your life and I'm just happy to be so blessed.<br />With that said, it caused me to read this book with my own dog in mind judging the author's own decisions along the way.  I just couldn't reconcile the idyllic life he had with Julius and Stanley (his Labrador Retrievers) and then bringing Devon (his adopted Border Collie) into the fray knowing full well that it would overturn the applecart. Once Devon arrived, I felt like Julius and Stanley were pushed to the side and relegated to the backyard, while Devon occupied all of their owner's time.  Was this their reward for years and years of loyalty and companionship?  Yes, it was great for the new addition to the family but at the expense of two dogs the author supposedly loved above all things.<br />As if that wasn't bad enough, Stanley begins to get sick...not sick enough that he wasn't enjoying life any longer.  I read the section, where Jon takes all three dogs to the mountains so that Stanley could enjoy his last trip there, with a knot in my stomach knowing full well that, upon their return, he was going to have Stanley put to sleep.  There's no way I could spend a glorious weekend romping in the woods with my dog, having him retrieve the ball he so loved knowing that his days were numbered because of a decision I was making.<br />Perhaps I'm being too critical but these two things took away from the overall enjoyment this book could have given me.  In no way could I look my beloved border collie in her one blue and one brown eye and tell her not only that I was bringing someone else into our home who would change her life forever (and not for the better) and, as if that's not bad enough, there's no way I could drive her to the vet and put her down when she wasn't even close to no longer being a functional and loving pet.  I know the author did a good job justifying these actions but this reader and this dog lover just didn't buy it.was bringing someone else into our home who would change her life forever (and not for the better) and, as if that's not bad enough, there's no way I could drive her to the vet and put her down when she wasn't even close to no longer being a functional and loving pet.  I know the author did a good job justifying these actions but this reader and this dog lover just didn't buy it.	2003-05-23
US	53006770	RZIWCVOKGCYWQ	1852427159	50954136	A Firing Offense (A Five Star Title)	Books	3	13	17	N	N	DEFINITELY A "GUY'S" AUTHOR	When I started reading Pelecanos, it began with \\"Right As Rain\\" after seeing him at a book signing in Philadelphia a few years ago.  After that reading experience, I knew I had to read some more of his books so I turned to his Nick Stefanos' series.  Someone suggested I read them in chronological order as opposed to the order in which he wrote them.  Based on that recommendation, I began with The Big Blowdown, which takes place in the 1930's and 1940's.  I thought this book was phenomenal.  Chronologically, the next three books were King Suckerman, which takes place in 1976, The Sweet Forever, which takes place in 1986 and A Firing Offense which takes place in the early 1990's -- all of which I've now read.<br />But here is my problem...does Pelecanos write these books only to attract a male audience?  I've gotten this feeling with each of these books since there's always some inside male jokes, references to sport's figures and trivia that only guys would know, gratuitous and gritty sex and over the top drinking and drug binges.  All of the characters are trying to be so cooler than cool. They don't just leave a tip....they \\"drop a twenty on a fifteen dollar tab.\\"  The first time Pelecanos writes this, it's clever...by the fifth or sixth time, it's old already.<br />I'm sure this will incite Pelecanos' fans but I mean this sincerely when I say that \\"I am a fan.\\"  I just wish he wouldn't be so exclusive of the opposite sex when he writes.  I can understand that he's probably a real man's man -- the kind of guy other guys want to hang out with.  But I want to join the party and I get the feeling with these last three books I've read that it's an \\"all boy's club\\" and I'm not invited.<br />Other reviewers have said that The Firing Offense is one of the weaker books in the series.  I thought the story was strong and definitely sets the scene for Nick Stefanos' entry into the private eye industry.  He gets the bug after he's asked by a young man's grandfather to help him find his grandson who is missing.  Since the boy, Jimmy Pence, was just canned by Nutty Nathan's, it seems like a good match that the grandfather has asked for Nick's help as Nick is the advertising director at the same company.<br />This book will find Nick going back to one of the stores and selling TV's and microwaves from the sales floor with his old friend Johnny McGinnes.  They will then travel south together in search of Jimmy until a light goes off in Nick's head leading him to figure out what's been going on behind the scenes at this electronics' company.<br />So I'm not giving up on Pelecanos....I guess I'm a glutton for punishment.  Next up for me is Nick's Trip, which takes place in the later 1990's, until I finally get to Shame The Devil, taking place in 1998.  A book friend of mine, who's a huge Pelecanos fan (a guy of course), says that this one will bring me to tears.  I'd like to see Pelecanos be able to do that to me. It would prove that there's not all hardness behind that pen of his.find his grandson who is missing.  Since the boy, Jimmy Pence, was just canned by Nutty Nathan's, it seems like a good match that the grandfather has asked for Nick's help as Nick is the advertising director at the same company.<br />This book will find Nick going back to one of the stores and selling TV's and microwaves from the sales floor with his old friend Johnny McGinnes.  They will then travel south together in search of Jimmy until a light goes off in Nick's head leading him to figure out what's been going on behind the scenes at this electronics' company.<br />So I'm not giving up on Pelecanos....I guess I'm a glutton for punishment.  Next up for me is Nick's Trip, which takes place in the later 1990's, until I finally get to Shame The Devil, taking place in 1998.  A book friend of mine, who's a huge Pelecanos fan (a guy of course), says that this one will bring me to tears.  I'd like to see Pelecanos be able to do that to me. It would prove that there's not all hardness behind that pen of his.	2003-05-23
US	53006770	R1X0ORKHTX5LD2	0553578553	131310413	Dawn on a Distant Shore (Wilderness)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	THIS SHORE WAS TOO "DISTANT" FOR ME	When I read Into The Wilderness last year, it ended up being one of the top ten books I had read in 2002.  Naturally, I was really looking forward to this second book in the series to continue where I left off with Nathaniel and Elizabeth.<br />In addition to loving the relationship between these two characters, I was also drawn to the setting of Hidden Wolf Mountain at the edge of the New York wilderness.  Sometimes I wonder why an author chooses to change the setting of a book when that locale was obviously so successful in the first place.  In Dawn on a Distant Shore, Sare Donati forces the reader to accompany the main characters first to Montreal and then on a ship across the ocean to Scotland. This took away from my enjoyment of the book.  If I wanted to be in Scotland, I'd be reading Gabaldon's Outlander series and not this one.<br />With all that said, the main crux of this story is for Donati to get across to the reader how persecuted Catholics were in Scotland in the late eighteenth century and how important it was for them to keep their lands away from the Protestants.  To this end, she has Nathaniel finding out that his father, Hawkeye, is a descendant of the Scott's of Carryckcastle in Scotland and the Earl of Carryck is very eager to have Hawkeye come to Scotland to claim his line in the family tree.  In doing so, the lands of Carryck would pass on to Hawkeye's son Nathaniel upon the death of the Earl and would consequently remain in the hands of the family....Catholic hands.  Needless to say, Hawkeye and Nathaniel have no desire to reside in Scotland so the Earl has no choice but to kidnap Nathaniel's children forcing him to come to Scotland to be reunited with his family.  Have I bored you enough yet???<br />A major part of this story takes place on various ships getting to and from Scotland.  Ever since I read Moby Dick, there's nothing I like less than reading about ocean voyages.  The other major section of this book takes place in Scotland and I like that even less because you have to try to decipher the Scottish accent when reading.  Instead of having a cast of characters and some maps at the beginning of the book, I'd much rather have a dictionary explaining what some of the Scottish words mean.  It took me forever to figure out that \\"ken\\" means know, \\"na\\" means not and \\"tae\\" means to.<br />The good news is that the next book in this series, Lake In The Clouds, actually has Nathaniel and Elizabeth back on the land they know and love.  It also brings back many of the characters Donati's readers enjoyed in her first book, Into The Wilderness.  Based on this, I look forward to this next adventure and only hope that Donati has no plans to return her characters to Scotland...they don't want to go there and neither do I with this series.ike that even less because you have to try to decipher the Scottish accent when reading.  Instead of having a cast of characters and some maps at the beginning of the book, I'd much rather have a dictionary explaining what some of the Scottish words mean.  It took me forever to figure out that \\"ken\\" means know, \\"na\\" means not and \\"tae\\" means to.<br />The good news is that the next book in this series, Lake In The Clouds, actually has Nathaniel and Elizabeth back on the land they know and love.  It also brings back many of the characters Donati's readers enjoyed in her first book, Into The Wilderness.  Based on this, I look forward to this next adventure and only hope that Donati has no plans to return her characters to Scotland...they don't want to go there and neither do I with this series.	2003-04-22
US	53006770	R26PY265MESIKV	0671027352	141370518	Angels & Demons (Robert Langdon)	Books	5	13	19	N	N	THIS BOOK IS PURE "GENIUS"	Every once in awhile, I'll come upon a book that's so incredible that a five star rating doesn't even do it justice.  Such was the case with Angels and Demons...a reading experience I'll not soon forget.  The better part of this book takes place in Vatican City and I swear to you that I actually felt like I had spent the past few days there because that's how real and well-researched Dan Brown's book is.  I also felt like I had been given some kind of drug that kept my heart in a state of continual palpitation because that's how exciting his book is as well.<br />This is an effort of monumental proportions as Brown covers nuclear research, a Vatican conclave, the Illuminati, ambigrams, antimatter and a race against the clock to save part of the history of Rome.  He also manages to fuse science, art, history and religion into one book while explaining why the battle between science and religion is still raging.  The good thing about Brown is that he doesn't lecture the reader on this subject -- he simply lays it out there for you to ponder.<br />The story begins with Robert Langdon, professor of religious iconology at Harvard University, receiving a very distraught phone call from Maximilian Kohler, director of CERN -- European Center for Nuclear Research in Geneva, Switzerland.  One of his famed physicists, who also happens to be a priest, has just been murdered and the killer has left a calling card in the form of an ambigram branded onto the scientist's chest.  Since Langdon specializes in symbology, he is asked to help track down the killer.<br />This one phone call will lead Langdon on the most spectacular fictional chase I've ever been on. The reason this chase is so incredible is because it's like taking a fast action sightseeing trip around Rome while following a map written by Galileo with signposts sculptured by the great 16th century artist Bernini.  Take my word for it;  it's like nothing you've ever experienced.  Like many of the other reviewers, I too had to stay up until 2AM because there was no way I could go to sleep without knowing how this book would end.  The bad news is that once I finished it, there was still no sleep to be had because my heart was racing out of control.<br />I decided to read this book because of all the \\"buzz\\" Dan Brown's latest book, The DaVinci Code, has been getting. Once I heard that it featured Robert Landon from Angels and Demons, I knew I had to read this before tackling DaVinci.  Imagine my surprise when Angels and Demons far surpassed any expectations I had.  Now I can't even envision what awaits me within the pages of The DaVinci Code.  Unfortunately, I need to take a good rest between these two books as I don't think my heart can handle another thrill ride so soon with Dan Brown as the \\"Director of Entertainment.\\"ad to stay up until 2AM because there was no way I could go to sleep without knowing how this book would end.  The bad news is that once I finished it, there was still no sleep to be had because my heart was racing out of control.<br />I decided to read this book because of all the \\"buzz\\" Dan Brown's latest book, The DaVinci Code, has been getting. Once I heard that it featured Robert Landon from Angels and Demons, I knew I had to read this before tackling DaVinci.  Imagine my surprise when Angels and Demons far surpassed any expectations I had.  Now I can't even envision what awaits me within the pages of The DaVinci Code.  Unfortunately, I need to take a good rest between these two books as I don't think my heart can handle another thrill ride so soon with Dan Brown as the \\"Director of Entertainment.\\"	2003-04-21
US	53006770	R1262Z707ORX29	0345438825	898191940	Angry Housewives Eating Bon Bons	Books	5	10	14	N	N	SIGN ME UP FOR THIS BOOK GROUP!!!!	Two years ago, while on vacation at the Jersey shore, I read a great book about the bonding and friendship of a group of women who had been friends for ten years.  That book was The Saving Graces by Patricia Gaffney and it's remained one of my favorites.  Since then, I've read many books exploring these same relationships among women and the emotional links that tie us together but had not come upon anything that could measure up to Gaffney's book.  I am happy to report that not only have I found something that measures up but I've also found something that might even surpass that book.<br />I think that part of the appeal for me of Angry Housevies is twofold.  First of all, the women are part of a book group and the reader gets to go to many of their monthly book group meetings.  Secondly, this book spans four decades starting with the 60's and ending with the 90's. Consequently, it's like taking a trip down memory lane as the reader is reminded of the politics, bestsellers, fashions, and mindset of each of these eras in the twentieth century.  It's a nostalgic reading experience as they share their cigarettes in the 60's, protest the war in the 70's, conquer homophobia in the 80's and are there for each other in the 90's as some of them go through some very tough times.<br />Landvik introduces us to some wonderful characters....women you can relate to....women who remind you of some of your own friends....women who know HOW to be friends.  They're all so very different, yet all so very alike because they're all women who not only want what friendship of other women can offer but need it as well.  There's Kari, who wants nothing more than to be a mother;  Audrey, the sexiest of the bunch but is she sexy enough for her husband;  Faith, mother of twins yet plagued by secrets from her own childhood;  Merit, beautiful and shy and the victim of an abusive husband and lastly Slip, the very petite political activist.<br />To say I enjoyed this book would be an understatement.  I loved every chapter...every page...every word.  Although I've heard many other readers rave about Lorna Landvik in the past, for some reason I had just never picked up one of her books. Why then did I start with Angry Housewives Eating Bon Bons?  No doubt it was the title...that was the first draw.  But the deciding factor for me was the chance to read about an actual book group and think that I could be one of the angry housewives, if only in my fictional world.  Of course, eating the bon bons is the \\"Piece de Resistance\\" because, let's face it, what's a few calories amongst friends...especially the friends you'll meet in this book.ent.  I loved every chapter...every page...every word.  Although I've heard many other readers rave about Lorna Landvik in the past, for some reason I had just never picked up one of her books. Why then did I start with Angry Housewives Eating Bon Bons?  No doubt it was the title...that was the first draw.  But the deciding factor for me was the chance to read about an actual book group and think that I could be one of the angry housewives, if only in my fictional world.  Of course, eating the bon bons is the \\"Piece de Resistance\\" because, let's face it, what's a few calories amongst friends...especially the friends you'll meet in this book.	2003-04-21
US	53006770	R313R0AXN8KH5D	0743221990	736731828	The Stone Monkey: A Lincoln Rhyme Novel (Lincoln Rhyme Novels)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	DEAVER DOESN'T "MONKEY" AROUND WITH THIS ONE	This is the fourth book in the Lincoln Rhyme/Amelia Sachs' series featuring Lincoln as the quadriplegic consultant to the NYPD with Amelia acting as his eyes and legs by walking the crime scenes for him, while reporting back everything she sees and feels.  While one might think that having someone heading up an investigation, who's confined to a wheelchair, might be a little far-fetched, then you haven't made the acquaintance of Lincoln Rhyme.  Deaver makes this series so interesting by putting top notch technology at Lincoln's fingertips (just a figure of speech as Lincoln only has feeling in his left ring finger).<br />As the story opens, Lincoln has tracked down a cargo ship, the Fuzhou Dragon, said to be bringing in illegal Chinese immigrants.  The smuggler is a man known as \\"The Ghost\\" -- aptly named as there are no known photographs of him in existance.  Not only is The Ghost a smuggler of illegal aliens, he is also a killer and Lincoln has been asked by the FBI and the INS to help them capture this murderer before he strikes again on Lincoln's turf.<br />A good part of this story takes place in New York's Chinatown as The Ghost tries to track down two of the families he has smuggled into this country.  At the same time, Lincoln and Amelia are trying to reach these families first before The Ghost gets to them.  This is the real mystery.....why is The Ghost after immigrants he, himself, has smuggled into this country?<br />Deaver's descriptions of this area and its Chinese cultures are well researched and make for some very interesting reading.  It's actually one of the best fictional trips into Chinatown that I've yet to come upon.  I especially liked the story Deaver tells of the \\"Ten Judges of Hell\\" who keep a book called \\"The Register of the Living and the Dead\\" -- which is actually the balance sheet of life and death for the Chinese people.<br />Comparing this book to the other three in the series (The Bone Collector, The Coffin Dancer, The Empty Chair), I'd have to say it's right at the top of the list for me because Deaver weaves a tale that has a number of twists and turns, some of which totally caught me by surprise.  He also introduces a wily policeman from China, Sonny Li, who will grow on the reader as much as he is growing on Lincoln (which isn't an easy feat).  I know the next book in the series, The Vanished Man, has just come out and I look forward, with great anticipation, to another adventure with Lincoln and Amelia.  I hear it's a winner.'d have to say it's right at the top of the list for me because Deaver weaves a tale that has a number of twists and turns, some of which totally caught me by surprise.  He also introduces a wily policeman from China, Sonny Li, who will grow on the reader as much as he is growing on Lincoln (which isn't an easy feat).  I know the next book in the series, The Vanished Man, has just come out and I look forward, with great anticipation, to another adventure with Lincoln and Amelia.  I hear it's a winner.	2003-04-14
US	53006770	R148QYLDR4GO7K	0446531588	703746704	Derailed	Books	5	4	5	N	N	NEXT STOP:  YOUR WORST NIGHTMARE	Whenever I come upon a book that I simply CANNOT put down, it certainly warrants a 5 star rating from me. This was the case with DERAILED. I would also add that it might make you think twice about having an extramarital affair because what happens to this character, because of one infidelity, is nothing I'd ever like to live through. This scenario makes Fatal Attraction look like a fairytale.<br />The title &quot;Derailed&quot; comes not only from the first scene, a chance meeting of a married man and a married woman on a train, but from the different tracks your life can follow if you make the wrong choices along the way. In this case, Charlie Shine is &quot;guilty as charged&quot; for being attracted to another woman but the price he will pay for that random encounter on the train is definitely not justified. The reader almost can't fault him for his indiscretion and will root for him all the way to extricate himself from this fiasco. But can he do it or is it too far gone for him to get his life back on track? You'll witness him making one mistake after another in an effort to get his life back and every page will have your own heart beating faster and faster in fear of what will come next.<br />If you're the type of reader who enjoys books where events spin out of control, then definitely put this one on your list because it's a winner. I would put it in the same category as The Job by Douglas Kennedy, A Simple Plan by Scott Smith and About the Author by John Colapinto -- all favorites of mine.<br />There's been a lot of hype about this book. Let's face it....how often do you see a book advertised on TV? It's what caught my eye so it obviously was a successful ad campaign. But the best thing about all the &quot;Derailed&quot; hoopla is that it's warranted. This is one heck of a book that will have your stomach in a knot for 339 pages...definitely well worth the price of admission into the perilous world of Charles Shine as created by author James Siegel.	2003-04-14
US	53006770	R3L3NRGW7NFVXX	034540047X	388275186	The Hotel New Hampshire	Books	5	2	4	N	N	VIENNA AND FREUD AND BEARS, "OH, MY"	I seriously don't think that John Irving is capable of telling a bad story.  There are storytellers and then there are \\"storytellers.\\" Irving is in that elevated category making each reading experience a memorable one. Right off the bat, you feel familiar with Irving's trademark themes.  No story is complete without either a visit from a bear, a trip to Vienna or a romp with a prostitute.  All these things might sound weird but Irving makes them seem so conventional.<br />Irving takes dysfunction and makes it seem normal.  He talks about prostitutes yet it doesn't sound seedy.  He gives life to a bear and makes the reader wish that perhaps they could have a bear for a pet.  He just makes \\"pure idiocy sound logical.\\"<br />The Hotel New Hampshire is the story of the Berry family living different stages of their lives at different hotels they manage to own. The love of hotel life first manifests itself when Win Berry meets Mary Bates at the Arbuthnot-by-the-Sea in Maine during a summer job in 1939.  A series of events will find the Berrys opening up their first hotel in New Hampshire where they will attempt to raise their family which includes five children, a dog named Sorrow and a bear named Earl.<br />This is a family led by Win Berry, a true dreamer.  As Irving, or should I say Freud, says, \\"A dream is a disguised fulfillment of a suppressed wish.\\"  In all, the family will fulfill the father's dream by establishing three separate Hotel New Hampshires with the one in Vienna being perhaps the turning point in all their lives. It is here that Irving makes a great statement about terrorists -- one I'd like to repeat as it seems so poignant today, twenty years after he wrote it...\\"The terrorist pretends he is uninterested in the means.  The ends, they say, are what they care about. But they are lying. The means is everything to them. The blast of the bomb, the blood -- they love it all.  Their intellectual detachment is a fraud; their indifference is feigned.  They tell lies about having higher purposes.\\"<br />This is an amazing look at an eccentric family made considerably more normal by Irving's words.  They will experience life at its fullest while sharing their own measure of sadness as different family members pass on.  Irving chooses to pass over these events more swiftly preferring to focus more on the life of the characters as opposed to the deaths because that's what Irving does...he writes about living life -- not about dying death.<br />When I think back over the years on some of the \\"characters\\" that I've read about and remembered like they were friends, it's Irving's characters who always seem to be at the top of the list...T.S. Garp, Owen Meany, Homer.  This is the sign of a truly good book -- a book where the characters will last a lifetime in my fictional world.  I have now added the entire Berry family to this list proving, once again, that Irving is a great \\"creator\\" of everlasting characters.lies about having higher purposes.\\"<br />This is an amazing look at an eccentric family made considerably more normal by Irving's words.  They will experience life at its fullest while sharing their own measure of sadness as different family members pass on.  Irving chooses to pass over these events more swiftly preferring to focus more on the life of the characters as opposed to the deaths because that's what Irving does...he writes about living life -- not about dying death.<br />When I think back over the years on some of the \\"characters\\" that I've read about and remembered like they were friends, it's Irving's characters who always seem to be at the top of the list...T.S. Garp, Owen Meany, Homer.  This is the sign of a truly good book -- a book where the characters will last a lifetime in my fictional world.  I have now added the entire Berry family to this list proving, once again, that Irving is a great \\"creator\\" of everlasting characters.	2003-03-19
US	53006770	R1OO7HCZ9FFK0P	0446527297	269463589	The Millionaires	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The "Improbable" Millionaires	Starting a Brad Meltzer thriller is like taking a train ride that is sure to jump the tracks before you reach your destination.  Usually, it's at least the first twenty or thirty pages that have my heart skipping a beat.  In The Millionaires, I didn't come up for air until I was well into a hundred pages of the book.  Like the main characters who were scared out of their wits in their attempt to steal millions of dollars, I too was frightened right along with them.<br />In the beginning, Meltzer has the main character talking about people who come into money and stating that once that happens, they lose their grasp on reality.  This is exactly what will happen as brothers Oliver and Charlie Caruso, employees of the New York private banking firm of Greene and Greene, attempt to divert millions of dollars from an inactive/dead client's account. As with other similar novels I've read, whereby people try to become millionaires by secretly keeping other people's money (A Simple Plan, The Summons), this is no easy eask.<br />Even though the brothers are undertaking something illegal, the reader will feel empathy towards them.  Their motives are purely genuine as they're hoping to reduce some exorbitant medical bills whose responsibility for payment lies with their mother Maggie.<br />A chase will ensue as the Secret Service gets involved in finding the money and, at one point, the reader will have no idea as to the identity of the good guys and the bad guys.  I will admit that the premise gets a bit confusing trying to figure out this money transfer scheme but Meltzer tells you right at the beginning of this ride that money will make you lose your grasp on reality.<br />This is the third book I've read by Brad Meltzer (Dead Even and The First Counsel being the other two)and he has yet to disappoint me.  I discovered him one day years ago on a morning talk show and I'm happy that I made his acquaintance because he has since brought me many hours of reading enjoyment.	2003-03-16
US	53006770	R5PMMPD0G340F	0804115435	668170725	Pursuit	Books	5	8	10	N	N	THE ULTIMATE &quot;PURSUIT&quot;	Sometimes I'll finish a book and rush to read the reviews to see if others agreed with me.  Many times, I'll find myself scratching my head, wondering if I read the same book as some of the reviewers.  This was the case with this book, where Perry has intricately woven a plot where all the pieces in the puzzle are so carefully chiseled leaving no room for error on the part of the protagonist.<br />The story starts off with a bang....well, actually thirteen of them as nine diners and four employees in a restaurant are all gunned down by a lunatic psychopath.  While some might have called this the random work of a madman, Daniel Millikan, homicide detective turned criminology professor, knows better once he's viewed the crime scene.  He realizes there was a target and the hit man killed the other twelve people in the restaurant just to make the police work even harder to figure it out.  The wealthy father of one of the victims hires Roy Prescott to find his son's killer.  Perry writes, &quot;Revenge is not sweet, it's a luxury.  It's a necessary restoration of balance in the universe.&quot; Since Prescott has a reputation for working outside of the law, usually leaving no prisoners, he's the perfect one to restore this balance.<br />This book was better than any National Geographic episode where the hunter tracks down his prey.  In this case, the hunter is Roy Prescott and the prey is hit man Jim Varney....someone who is almost as smart and cunning as Prescott but not quite.  This will be a chase to beat all chases.<br />Right from the beginning, Perry lets the reader know who the killer is thereby allowing us not only to get into Prescott's head but also into Varney's as he tells the story through both viewpoints.  This is sometimes a dangerous technique but one Perry masterfully employs and one I very much enjoy.  So many authors lead you through 300 pages, while you try to figure out who the killer is, only to be disappointed in the end.  Since you already know who the killer is here, you'll read on just to find out if Prescott's pursuit is successful.  I guarantee you it's one of the best cat and mouse chases you'll read with Prescott coming up with some ingenious plots to capture the very elusive Varney.<br />Towards the end of this book, you'll be forcing yourself to avert your eyes from the next page, the next paragraph, the next sentence dragging out the inevitable climax just a little bit longer.  You'll want to read ahead as quickly as possible because, by this time, you'll know that Varney cannot be allowed to live.<br />Roy Prescott is just the type of guy you'd want to hire if you were seeking revenge.  A dream book for me would be to see Roy Prescott teamed up with Perry's other recurring character, Jane Whitefield....also someone who enjoys working outside the law.  Well, one can only dream.the killer is here, you'll read on just to find out if Prescott's pursuit is successful.  I guarantee you it's one of the best cat and mouse chases you'll read with Prescott coming up with some ingenious plots to capture the very elusive Varney.<br />Towards the end of this book, you'll be forcing yourself to avert your eyes from the next page, the next paragraph, the next sentence dragging out the inevitable climax just a little bit longer.  You'll want to read ahead as quickly as possible because, by this time, you'll know that Varney cannot be allowed to live.<br />Roy Prescott is just the type of guy you'd want to hire if you were seeking revenge.  A dream book for me would be to see Roy Prescott teamed up with Perry's other recurring character, Jane Whitefield....also someone who enjoys working outside the law.  Well, one can only dream.	2003-02-24
US	53006770	RZJ2RC8SR3OW9	0316153915	77432495	Chasing the Dime	Books	4	4	5	N	N	MY &quot;TEN CENTS&quot; WORTH	In order to truly enjoy Connelly's latest endeavor, the reader has to put their imagination in high gear because the scenario is a bit far-fetched.  If Harry Bosch was at the helm of this mystery, it would be more believable but the main character is not Harry Bosch....he's Henry Pierce, a scientist and former chemistry major from Stamford.  Pierce is thirty-something and head of a technology company presently in a race against time to be the first in the industry to discover molecular computer.  Unfortunately, this race has destroyed his personal life as he has been spending more time in the lab and less time at home with his live-in love Nicole.  Time has come to a halt for that relationship and he has moved out of their home and gotten a new apartment in order to give Nicole her space.<br />Lonely and depressed, Henry moves into his new place only to find numerous messages on his answering machine for someone named Lilly.  He'll soon find out that Lilly is a beautiful escort whose website obviously draws a number of calls.  But why are these calls coming to Henry's new telephone number?  This mystery will lead Henry on the chase of his life as he tries to find out who Lilly is, where she is and why the phone number she no longer uses is still listed on her website even though it now belongs to Henry.  Henry is relentless in his pursuit of Lilly's whereabouts even when his own safety and freedom are at risk.<br />This is the part I found hard to believe.  Come on......he's a mild-mannered chemist not a persistent private eye, so I found it hard to imagine his throwing caution to the wind as he recklessly tries to figure this out.  But he'll surprise everyone by using his scientific methods of deduction and reasoning to try to solve this puzzle.  While Henry is chasing Lilly, his own company could be going down the tubes as the clock is running out on the financing they need to pursue their dreams.<br />I'm a huge fan of this author having already read eight of his other books but I found this one a tad disappointing.  It just didn't have Connelly's usual &quot;unputdownability&quot; quotient.  I found myself eager to finish it so I could move on to my next book....something that has never happened before with a Connelly offering.other books but I found this one a tad disappointing.  It just didn't have Connelly's usual &quot;unputdownability&quot; quotient.  I found myself eager to finish it so I could move on to my next book....something that has never happened before with a Connelly offering.	2003-01-20
US	53006770	R1BZMVX1JIGAFI	0446606189	265763987	Cat & Mouse (Alex Cross)	Books	5	9	12	N	N	IN THE GAME OF CAT AND MOUSE -- WHO WINS???	Call me crazy but this is my favorite Alex Cross book thus far.  This is the fourth in the series. I've already read the first three (all of which I enjoyed) but there was something about this one that just grabbed me right from the beginning.<br />I just love how Patterson weaves a tale.  And, as much as I joke with my friends about his short chapters, I find them refreshing after some of the heavier things I've read this past summer.  No more saying to myself, \\"I'll read one more chapter before I go to bed.\\"  With a Patterson book, you can safely say, \\"I'll read twenty more chapters\\" before putting the book down.<br />And, I can't help but smile every time Patterson mentions other authors' books.  He does it on numerous occasions in Cat and Mouse and I always find myself checking out the books he's mentioned.<br />This installment finds Alex Cross, once again, coming face to face with ... Gary Soneji.  Those of you who have already read the first book in this series, Along Came A Spider, will recognize Soneji as the teacher turned kidnapper who wanted to commit the \\"crime of the century.\\"  Now he has escaped from prison and has come back to seek revenge on the man who put him there....Alex Cross.<br />Across the ocean on the continent of Europe, another madman is killing people by performing autopsies on them while they're still alive.  The FBI is all over this killer, dubbed \\"Mr. Smith\\", and has assigned their young, crack shot, pony-tailed agent, Thomas Pierce, to head up this investigation.  Circumstances will bring him back to the U.S. to help with the Soneji investigation.<br />Of course, it will be up to our hero, Alex Cross, to save the day.  Since he's not only a homicide detective, but one with a Ph.D. in psychology, he's very adept at getting into someone's mind.  This is the best part of this series -- watching how Alex figures out what the murderer's next step will be.<br />For Alex Cross fans, one of the highlights of this book will be the love match between him and Christine, the principal of Damon and Jannie's (Alex' kids) school.  Readers of this series will remember Christine as a character in Jack and Jill (the third book in this series).  Sadly, her husband was murdered in that one.  Could the timing be right for these two characters?  One can only hope.  I'm sure I'll find out when I read the next book in this series...between him and Christine, the principal of Damon and Jannie's (Alex' kids) school.  Readers of this series will remember Christine as a character in Jack and Jill (the third book in this series).  Sadly, her husband was murdered in that one.  Could the timing be right for these two characters?  One can only hope.  I'm sure I'll find out when I read the next book in this series...	2002-09-22
US	53006770	R1NA5E5F0Q5W3M	0451203771	359050157	Scarlet Feather	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Definitey NOT Her Last Book!!	How glorious!!!  For the past few days, I've been transported to Ireland via BINCHY AIRLINES.  That's truly what it feels like to read a Maeve Binchy book.  You are taken away from your present life and dropped into the lives of a colorful cast of characters who will help you to forget all of your problems as you live through theirs.<br />I was feeling a little low, having just sent my son off to college, and knew that I was in the mood for a certain kind of book -- a kinder, gentler kind of book.  I had already read all the \\"buzz\\" books of the summer of 2002...The Lovely Bones, The Dive From Clausen's Pier, The Emperor of Ocean Park...and now I knew it was time for a Binchy \\"fix\\".  SCARLET FEATHER definitely fit the bill.<br />Scarlet Feather is the name of the upscale catering company owned by Cathy Scarlet and Tom Feather.  Upscale, however, does not mean that it doesn't come without life's ups and downs.  It's a struggle to keep this business on its feet and Binchy is great at describing all the mundane intricacies involved in running a food related business as well as illustrating all the food that is being served so that you can almost taste it.<br />While the business is handling its ups and downs, the main characters' personal lives will also be handling some of their own.  Cathy and her attorney husband, Neil, definitely need to find some more private time together while Tom and his aspiring model girlfriend, Marcella, have to learn to trust each other a little more.<br />There is no one better at character development than Binchy and SCARLET FEATHER is full of personalities you will remember for a long time.  At the top of the list are the nine year old twins Maud and Simon.  These two are so adorable you'll wish they were living with you.  And you'll follow Cathy's parents, Muttie and \\"his wife\\" Lizzie, and hope that one day Muttie will bet on that one big race that will give them some monetary relief.<br />This book follows the first year of Scarlet Feather's debut into the catering world and, when the New Year approaches, you'll wish you could hang around for another year.<br />I know many of the reviewers here have stated that this is Binchy's \\"last\\" book.  I am pleased to inform them that it certainly is NOT.  Her new book, QUENTINS, will be out in October and, those of you who have read Evening Class, (my personal favorite of Binchy's), will recognize this as the name of Brenda and Patrick Brennan's renowned restaurant in Dublin.  Many of my favorite Binchy characters will make an appearance in QUENTINS namely Ria from Tara Road, Signora from Evening Class and, my favorite twins from Scarlet Feather, Maud and Simon.  Now that's something I really look forward to.  My only disappointment is that I can't join them in person and share a meal with them at Quentins.  I'll have to be content just reading about it.her's debut into the catering world and, when the New Year approaches, you'll wish you could hang around for another year.<br />I know many of the reviewers here have stated that this is Binchy's \\"last\\" book.  I am pleased to inform them that it certainly is NOT.  Her new book, QUENTINS, will be out in October and, those of you who have read Evening Class, (my personal favorite of Binchy's), will recognize this as the name of Brenda and Patrick Brennan's renowned restaurant in Dublin.  Many of my favorite Binchy characters will make an appearance in QUENTINS namely Ria from Tara Road, Signora from Evening Class and, my favorite twins from Scarlet Feather, Maud and Simon.  Now that's something I really look forward to.  My only disappointment is that I can't join them in person and share a meal with them at Quentins.  I'll have to be content just reading about it.	2002-09-12
US	53006770	R3NC294717B39G	0515123447	208059136	Killing Floor (Jack Reacher, No. 1)	Books	5	23	27	N	N	JACK REACHER -- MY NEW HERO	Even though I read about fifty books a year in the Mystery/Thriller genre, this is my first introduction to Lee Child.  He comes highly recommended and I'm now wondering why I waited so long to pick up one of his books.<br />My immediate thoughts on this author are that I like his writing style.  He writes like we speak -- shorter sentences and gets right to the point.  My second discovery is his use of surprises.  There's nothing I like more than reading a book where I don't know what's going to happen at the end of a chapter.  I love having some of those \\"Oh, No\\" moments when settling down with a mystery.  My third and probably most important reason for liking this book is the main character.  Finally, I meet Jack Reacher -- 6'4\\", 36 years old, a former military policeman and, best of all, he's not a wise-guy.  I don't know why most authors think they have to resort to the wise-cracking main character in order to have a successful book.  To me, Jack Reacher is a refreshing change.<br />The setting of this book, Margrave, Georgia, is reminiscent of a Stepford town.  Everything is perfect, everything is clean, everyone is happy with their lives....until dead bodies start showing up.  Reacher, who just happens to be wandering through Margrave, is immediately considered a suspect simply because he's an outsider.  But little does this town know that it's the \\"insiders\\" they have to worry about as Reacher sets out to prove his innocence and seeks revenge for the death of someone from his past.  And when Reacher sets out to seek revenge, he means it, as he has no problem at all in killing bad people.<br />In the beginning of the book, he won't know whom to trust and neither will the reader.  As the story progresses, however, you will become amazed at Reacher's intelligence and will become attuned to his deciphering of even the smallest clue.<br />Jack Reacher has now moved right up on top of my list of favorite main characters in a mystery series.  I've looked past the fact that he has no problem killing people.<br />I'm just so glad that this is a series because it means that I get to visit with this pantheon of human pulchritude again and again and again.  Next up....Die Trying.act that he has no problem killing people.<br />I'm just so glad that this is a series because it means that I get to visit with this pantheon of human pulchritude again and again and again.  Next up....Die Trying.	2002-09-12
US	53006770	R23PTTQH2OQ07M	0380731851	733601761	Mystic River	Books	5	174	183	N	N	NO MYSTERY HERE!!!!  LEHANE IS THE GREATEST!!!!	There are authors and then there are GREAT authors.  MYSTIC RIVER just proves that Dennis Lehane has risen to the \\"great author\\" category.  I'm familiar with Lehane's work having already read four books in his Patrick and Angie series.  But nothing, and I mean nothing, prepared me for the greatness of MYSTIC RIVER.<br />Everything in this book is real -- so real that you actually feel like you're living in the \\"Flats\\" even though you've never set foot anywhere near that part of the United States.  Perhaps growing up in Brooklyn enabled me to relate to the people living on the so-called \\"opposite side of the tracks\\" because I was friends with many of them.  Every city has this section.  Those who live in it want to get out and those who live outside of it would like, in some small way, to be a part of it.  It's a place where the residents look out for their own, sometimes having to take justice into their own hands to see that it is properly served.<br />We meet the three main characters, Sean Devine, Jimmy Marcus and Dave Boyle, when they are young boys playing together in the streets.  When we meet them again, they are grown men -- one a homicide detective, one an ex-con who has lived the straight life for fifteen years and one a husband and father plagued by demons.<br />Lehane explores the \\"what if\\" scenario by reminding us that \\"if\\" it had rained in Dallas on that fateful day, Kennedy would not have been in a convertible.  The big \\"what if\\" in this book centers around an occurrence that happened when the boys were not yet twelve years old and one of them was taken away in a car by pedophiles posing as cops.  The big \\"what if\\" was how life would have been for the other two had they also gotten into the car.  The bigger \\"what if\\", however, is how different this story might have been if NONE of them had gotten into the car.  Because the boy who left in the car that day is not the same boy who returns four days later having escaped from his captors.  As a result of this incident, all three boys will carry around the demons of that day into manhood until the tragic death of one of their daughters will bring the three of them face-to-face again.<br />I'm going to go out on a limb and state that this is one of the finest books I've ever read.  While there's a mystery going on, and it certainly is a page-turner, it is so much more.  It is a journey into the psyches of all the characters so neatly drawn out by Lehane and so knowingly admired by the reader.  You can understand each and every movement; each and every motivation. While you might not always agree with their choices, you can see that they are real and not something contrived by the author.<br />I just can't imagine anyone not liking this book and, while I long for another Patrick and Angie episode, I am content to read whatever this author writes.  As long as he keeps writing, I'll keep reading.this incident, all three boys will carry around the demons of that day into manhood until the tragic death of one of their daughters will bring the three of them face-to-face again.<br />I'm going to go out on a limb and state that this is one of the finest books I've ever read.  While there's a mystery going on, and it certainly is a page-turner, it is so much more.  It is a journey into the psyches of all the characters so neatly drawn out by Lehane and so knowingly admired by the reader.  You can understand each and every movement; each and every motivation. While you might not always agree with their choices, you can see that they are real and not something contrived by the author.<br />I just can't imagine anyone not liking this book and, while I long for another Patrick and Angie episode, I am content to read whatever this author writes.  As long as he keeps writing, I'll keep reading.	2002-08-27
US	53006770	R1IFM2HY95TL1B	0688145906	204036599	The Middle Ages	Books	4	2	2	N	N	"IS LIFE JUST A BOWL OF CHERRIES?"	I accidentally discovered Jennie Fields a few years ago when I came upon her book, Crossing Brooklyn Ferry.  While I'm a sucker for any book that has a New York reference in its title, I bought it but never expected it to be as good as it was.  When I sought out her other book, Lily Beach, I found out that Fields was the real thing as this book was just as good, if not better than Crossing.  That was five years ago.  I have patiently waited for this author to pen her next tome and was delighted when I finally saw that her latest, THE MIDDLE AGES, was scheduled to be published in July.  I'm not sure if I like the title because it reminds me of a history book but the cover illustrates what every Baby Boomer has come to realize and that is that \\"Life is not a bowl of cherries.\\"<br />Fields is already well-known for putting the reader right smack dab in her hometown of Park Slope, Brooklyn, where beautifully renovated brownstones line the streets.  Many of my high school friends lived in Park Slope and their parents are still kicking themselves for not hanging on to these now pricey brownstones.  Her hallmark character is always a female and always one who is happy with her momentary single existence -- until she meets a possible Mr. Right and realizes that her single and sometimes lonely life is for the birds. In this case we meet Jane Larsen, who has worked at the same architectural firm for the past eighteen years.  She is a single mother of teenage twin girls so job security is important to her.  In her most private moments, however, she wishes she could just ditch the job and do something she really loves -- like designing homes.  A twist of fate will make this possibility a reality if she wants to take a chance.<br />I'm noticing lately that many authors are relying on the wonders of the computer and emails to tell their story. Fields utilizes this device when she has Jane tracking down an old college friend and lover, Jack Cashin.  I don't really like this style of writing and feel it's sometimes a cop-out but Fields makes it work.<br />THE MIDDLE AGES is full of thoughts and commentaries we all experience when we near the upcoming 50's.  I can't help but feel that much of this book might be semi-autobiographical as the author is so right on target with the main character's feelings.  If I had to compare Fields to another author of today, it would probably be Elizabeth Berg. The main difference is that you have to wait so long for another Fields' book to be published while Berg seems to knock them out with great speed.<br />In closing I'd say that the beginning of the book was great but fizzled out a little for me towards the end.  I think I was annoyed with Jane's email correspondent Jack and all the \\"baggage\\" he was carrying.  I'm not sure if that was necessary to the story but you can be the judge of that.  I'm just hoping I don't have to wait another five years for another book by this very talented author.of writing and feel it's sometimes a cop-out but Fields makes it work.<br />THE MIDDLE AGES is full of thoughts and commentaries we all experience when we near the upcoming 50's.  I can't help but feel that much of this book might be semi-autobiographical as the author is so right on target with the main character's feelings.  If I had to compare Fields to another author of today, it would probably be Elizabeth Berg. The main difference is that you have to wait so long for another Fields' book to be published while Berg seems to knock them out with great speed.<br />In closing I'd say that the beginning of the book was great but fizzled out a little for me towards the end.  I think I was annoyed with Jane's email correspondent Jack and all the \\"baggage\\" he was carrying.  I'm not sure if that was necessary to the story but you can be the judge of that.  I'm just hoping I don't have to wait another five years for another book by this very talented author.	2002-08-26
US	53006770	R1L6WJ7X94DFX4	0312283350	101164655	Nantucket Nights: A Novel	Books	5	12	15	N	N	MY FAVORITE BOOK FOR THE SUMMER OF "2002"	The cover of this book, Adirondack chairs on the edge of the water, and the title, NANTUCKET NIGHTS, would lead the buyer to believe that they are, in fact, purchasing a light beach read.  Through the writing skills and storytelling abilities of the author, this book is not a \\"light\\" beach read but a \\"GREAT\\" beach read.<br />Told through the voices of three of its main characters, NANTUCKET NIGHTS explores the depths of conflict within a town, a family unit and a close-knit group of friends when one event starts the ball rolling on a downward spiral.  While the main story deals with three close friends who have rendezvoused for twenty years at midnight on the eve of the Labor Day weekend, all the underlying stories will now come to the forefront as everyone's secrets are revealed as a result of one Nantucket night.<br />The author does a wonderful job of putting the reader right there on beautiful Nantucket island.  I've only visited there once in the past, so it was nice to go back, if only through the pages of this book.  The three friends are an unlikely group -- Kayla, mother of four and supposedly happily married to Raoul; Val, a successful island attorney stuck in a loveless marriage and Antoinette, reclusive though wealthy as a result of a divorce that occurred twenty plus years ago.  What begins as a fun ritual of meeting each year, eating decadent food, drinking champagne, swimming nude and revealing their innermost secrets of the past year, now becomes a \\"sordid romp\\" once it is exposed to the authorities and seen through the eyes of its townspeople.<br />I bought this book three months ago but, as soon as I looked at the cover, I knew it was going to be a book I'd save to read while vacationing at the shore this year.  Every year I come upon a book that will always remind me of that particular summer of reading.  For the summer of 2002, it will be NANTUCKET NIGHTS -- a book that surprised me with its powerful storyline and well developed characters.<br />So, can you really tell a book by its cover?  In this case, I'm so glad I was attracted to it by its cover but even happier still that I wasn't disappointed with what was on the inside.  I'd say that Hilderbrand has a new fan in this reader.So, can you really tell a book by its cover?  In this case, I'm so glad I was attracted to it by its cover but even happier still that I wasn't disappointed with what was on the inside.  I'd say that Hilderbrand has a new fan in this reader.	2002-08-24
US	53006770	RPUE9G6KEXN3W	0060185287	200580431	Flight Lessons	Books	3	7	11	N	N	YAWN!!!!!	Two years ago, I read Patricia Gaffney's The Saving Graces while on vacaton at the shore.  It ended up being the best book I read that entire summer.  When I saw that this author had a new book coming out for this summer, I bought it immediately with the intention of saving it for my vacation in the hope that I'd, once again, find another summer favorite in Gaffney's new offering.  Unfortunately, this was not to be the case.  Even though Lavyrle Spencer has retired, I had the feeling that I was reading one of her stories -- albeit a very poor rendition of one.<br />The setting is the Eastern Shore of Maryland but the reader never really gets the feeling that they are anywhere near the water, even though one of the characters lives on a boat.  Anna Fiore has returned to her childhood home to help her Aunt Rose bring some life back into the failing family restaurant. This would all be well and good except for the fact that Anna really doesn't want to be there (or so she says) and fights her aunt and friends constantly by continually making sure they understand this is a \\"temporary\\" arrangement.  By this time, I was wishing that Anna would leave already instead of waiting around while everyone begs her to stay.  The reader will learn why she is so antagonistic towards her aunt and what the grudge is that she still holds against her -- some twenty years later.<br />I've often been involved in discussions as to whether one can truly enjoy a book if they can't stand the characters.  I find this very hard to do and this book is a perfect example of my contention.  It is filled with surly, self-serving, phobia filled, sickly, beseeching and bad-tempered individuals who supposedly will all come together in a common goal.  If the saying that \\"opposites attract\\" is true, then this book is right on target with its character development even though the combinations stretch one's imagination to the limit at times.<br />My last criticism is in the title and the cover.  I feel that this cover, of a white picket fence set in the sand dunes, is meant to give summer readers that \\"beachy\\" feeling they are looking for.  It's deceptive because it is not a \\"beachy\\" feeling kind of book.  And, what's up with the title FLIGHT LESSONS?? -- it's really not indicative at all of the story.  The proper cover should have been that of a restaurant and the title perhaps \\"Cooking Lessons\\" but that might have been too boring (like this book).  Well, whatever lesson was to be learned, I must have missed it.<br />This three star rating, by the way, is on the low end of the scale almost leaning towards two stars.this cover, of a white picket fence set in the sand dunes, is meant to give summer readers that \\"beachy\\" feeling they are looking for.  It's deceptive because it is not a \\"beachy\\" feeling kind of book.  And, what's up with the title FLIGHT LESSONS?? -- it's really not indicative at all of the story.  The proper cover should have been that of a restaurant and the title perhaps \\"Cooking Lessons\\" but that might have been too boring (like this book).  Well, whatever lesson was to be learned, I must have missed it.<br />This three star rating, by the way, is on the low end of the scale almost leaning towards two stars.	2002-08-19
US	53006770	R2MJYORKWN9VDD	0765300249	590581818	White Male Infant	Books	3	4	6	N	N	"AN ADOPTION NIGHTMARE"	Dooley, Claudia and little Teddy McSweeney form the perfect little family until the applecart is overturned wreaking havoc in their idyllic world.<br />Dooley is a surgical pathologist and his wife Claudia is an attorney.  After years of unsuccessful attempts at having a biological child, the couple travels to Russia to adopt a little boy.  But they do not just want ANY little boy.  They want a child that will look like he was, in fact, their own biological child -- one with red hair and green eyes.  My immediate thought here was, \\"Why go to Russia and not to Ireland if this is what you're looking for?\\"  But lo and behold, right there in one of the largest orphanages, in one of the coldest sections of Russia, is a little four-month-old, red haired, green-eyed boy just waiting to be adopted.  Right then and there I would have become suspicious but it's not until four years later, when little Teddy gets ill and has some medical tests done, that his father Dooley's suspicions are aroused -- aroused enough to impel him to travel back to Russia in an effort to learn Teddy's true parentage.  He is quite sure of one thing though -- there's no way Teddy truly could have come from Russia.  But then, where DID he come from???<br />This is a story that had a great and exciting premise but I just felt the author never really went anywhere with it.  The characters are all deadpan and the chapters flit back and forth between simultaneous stories that should all mesh together in the end.  Unfortunately, when they do, it is almost anticlimactic leaving the reader searching for more.  It's not that the author doesn't neatly tie up the ending because she does.  It's just that it's tied up too coldly -- perhaps indicative of the Russian setting in most of the book.	2002-08-19
US	53006770	R3E8S6ANBBHBQP	0446530239	84426835	If Looks Could Kill	Books	5	51	59	N	N	KELLY RIPA PICKS A WINNER	I'd be the first to admit that I truly enjoy reading books along with a group.  When Oprah announced the possible end of her six-year book club, it was a sad day for me.  The sadness, however, was replaced with joy as other TV shows and newspapers jumped on the bandwagon and started their own book clubs.  While Regis jokes that Kelly's book club could be better known as \\"beach trash reading,\\" this statement couldn't be further from the truth with Ripa's first pick.  Prior to this, I had never heard of Kate White and this is one of the reasons I love book groups....you get introduced to authors whose books you might not have picked out on your own.  I'm happy to report that White's book is informative, enjoyable and an overall excellent \\"who done it.\\"  I read about fifty books in the mystery/thriller genre each year and I must admit that she had me guessing until the very end.<br />IF LOOKS COULD KILL is set in Manhattan where the main characters work together at \\"Gloss Magazine.\\" The author gives the reader a great inside look at both the magazine as well as the fashion industry.  Her characters navigate different parts of the city from Greenwich Village to Tribeca to Chelsea to Central Park West in search of their stories and photo shoots.  I particularly loved her descriptions not only of the locales but of the outfits worn by her characters as well.  It was like being in a Sex And The City episode but, instead of following Carrie Bradshaw around, we get to tag along with Bailey Weggins, the crime story journalist for \\"Gloss.  Since she writes about crime, her boss Cat Jones thinks she'll be perfect for trying to solve the mystery of \\"who killed Cat's nanny\\" and remove some of Cat's fears that she, herself, was really the intended victim.  In order to get to the bottom of this fiasco, Bailey will travel out of Manhattan into beautiful Bucks County, PA, which, coincidentally, is the home of this reviewer.  Imagine my surprise as Bailey drove into my hometown on a picture perfect day.  Unfortunately, her trip wasn't as enjoyable as it might have been but you'll have to read the book to find out what happens.<br />So, all in all, I give this book a solid 5 stars in comparison to other books in this genre.  I understand the author is working on another book with Bailey Weggins as the main character and I look forward to its release.  It was nice for a change not to be reading about the male, alcoholic, divorced, bad-tempered, wisecracking private eye that so many authors are relying on nowadays to sell their books.  Instead, we are given a female, who is a loser at love, dresses well, has an exciting job and thinks about things that we readers can associate with on a daily basis.<br />Kudos to you Kelly Ripa for a fine first pick and congratulations to Kate White for being the beneficiary of this notoriety....and well deservedly so, I might add.picture perfect day.  Unfortunately, her trip wasn't as enjoyable as it might have been but you'll have to read the book to find out what happens.<br />So, all in all, I give this book a solid 5 stars in comparison to other books in this genre.  I understand the author is working on another book with Bailey Weggins as the main character and I look forward to its release.  It was nice for a change not to be reading about the male, alcoholic, divorced, bad-tempered, wisecracking private eye that so many authors are relying on nowadays to sell their books.  Instead, we are given a female, who is a loser at love, dresses well, has an exciting job and thinks about things that we readers can associate with on a daily basis.<br />Kudos to you Kelly Ripa for a fine first pick and congratulations to Kate White for being the beneficiary of this notoriety....and well deservedly so, I might add.	2002-05-14
US	53006770	R1RMWCXUU4WY9M	0892967048	727646325	The Bottoms	Books	4	8	9	N	N	THE &quot;BOTTOM&quot; LINE ON THIS BOOK.......	I love it when I read a book whose title means absolutely nothing to me as in \\"The Bottoms\\".  What are the bottoms?  I found out that they are the \\"bottoms\\" of the rivers and, in this case, they have been drained leaving them damp and mushy - the perfect setting for the scene of the crime in Joe R. Lansdale's latest book.<br />In the days when the law didn't look upon a rash of murders as being committed by the same person - a serial killer was in fact murdering women in Arkansas, Oklahoma and Northern Texas.  Now this killer has arrived in East Texas and young Harry Crane discovers the killer's first victim as he comes up a dead black woman tied to a tree.  Since his father Jacob is the town constable, the task will fall to him to solve the crime.  But no one else will be interested in finding the killer since the dead woman is black, so, in a nutshell, who cares?  Well, Harry's father does and he will find himself fighting a losing battle as he tries to right this wrong.  Instead of the town coming together, they will band against Harry's father as he tries to find justice for the innocent blacks in Texas in the 1930's.<br />Now it is seventy years later and the once young Harry Crane is sitting in his nursing home reliving those events of long ago.  And, as Harry is reliving those days, I'm reliving those moments spent reading Harper Lee's To Kill A Mockingbird.  I know there are only so many stories that can ever be told but there were just too many similarities in this book for me to thoroughly enjoy it.  From the young brother and sister team, to the father in an official position of law, to the Goat Man so reminiscent of the reclusive Boo Radley and finally to the lynch mob showing up at the Crane house --  I could have been reading To Kill A Mockingbird all over again.  Not only did this take away from my overall enjoyment of the story, it also made me quite irritated as well.  I guess I just feel very protective of a \\"classic\\" that holds such a special place in my heart. In this rendition, however, the killer is so obvious throughout the entire book...no surprises here.  So the \\"bottom\\" line is if you haven't read the original by Harper Lee, you'll probably enjoy this much more than I did.  There's no doubt that Joe R. Lansdale is an excellent writer and I look forward to reading some of his more \\"original\\" works.e in my heart. In this rendition, however, the killer is so obvious throughout the entire book...no surprises here.  So the \\"bottom\\" line is if you haven't read the original by Harper Lee, you'll probably enjoy this much more than I did.  There's no doubt that Joe R. Lansdale is an excellent writer and I look forward to reading some of his more \\"original\\" works.	2001-12-04
US	53006770	R5EGOABMMZQZN	0385505833	999720718	Skipping Christmas: A Novel	Books	5	106	113	N	N	A BOOK TO BE READ &quot;BEFORE&quot; CHRISTMAS	OK, it's not your typical Grisham courtroom drama but, once again, he makes a plausible argument for \\"skipping Christmas\\" in his latest book of the same title.  \\"Bah Humbug\\", I said, when first hearing about the book's premise until the plans surrounding the main characters' scheduled departure for the Caribbean sounded so enticing that it left me wondering if they might take me along.<br />While this book is not about doing away with Christmas forever, it's one couple's desire to just skip it, for just one year, and spend the money on a cruise instead.  And, why not?  Their only child Blair has just left for a stint in Peru with the Peace Corps and they are looking at spending their first Christmas alone in a very long time.  But skipping Christmas entirely means not doing anything \\"holiday\\" related at all - no cards, no presents, no holiday parties and, most importantly, no rooftop Frosty...the \\"symbol\\" of Christmas in their Hemlock Street neighborhood in Illinois.  But Luther and Nora KRANK are about to find out what the true \\"symbol\\" of Christmas really is -- whether they like it or not.<br />While their friends and neighbors are appalled at their decision to forego the Christmas festivities, Luther and Nora remain stalwart in their resolution of \\"no Christmas for the Kranks.\\"  Grisham throws some humor into many of the scenes as he has the Kranks hiding out in their own home as carolers sing Christmas songs on their lawn and then has them eating lettuce leaves in an effort to lose weight for the trip.<br />But it's the end of the book where the true meaning of Christmas will be exhibited.  It's not money spent or gifts bought or Frosty's on the roof.  It's much simpler and easier than that. The Kranks will find out that the true meaning of Christmas, in Grisham's story, is that of giving...giving of yourself. And, you'll have a good time reading how they get to this point and  hoping, just as I am, that all of us will come to this realization during this upcoming holiday season.ng holiday season.	2001-11-20
US	53006770	R2EU0LOILFPW3A	0743230000	845143749	Pafko at the Wall: A Novella	Books	5	9	10	N	N	&quot;THOMSON AT THE BAT&quot;	I haven't read Underworld, so when I bought this book, all I knew was that it was about \\"the shot heard round the world\\" and that was good enough for me.  Having grown up in Brooklyn and having lived in a house with three brothers and a father who were all avid Giant fans, this is something I've heard about my whole life.  I wasn't even walking in 1951 so I certainly don't remember that day but what I do remember is it's being discussed in my home, ad nauseam, for as long as I can remember.  In honor of my now deceased father and my very alive three brothers, (who followed the Giants and remained Giant fans as they went on to San Francisco), I have taken it upon myself to learn more about that fateful day in Dodger history when Giant fans all over New York roared in unity as Bobby Thomson's strike of the bat ended the Dodger season in 1951.<br />DeLillo's attention to detail is so vivid that I actually felt as if I was hearing Russ Hodges announce the game.  The book is full of nostalgic remembrances especially when he talks about one of the Giant sponsors - Chesterfield cigarettes.  Between innings, Hodges actually instructs the audience to stay right where they are and \\"light up a Chesterfield.\\"  Can you imagine saying that today?  And I found that the trivia about the large CHESTERFIELD sign in centerfield lighting up the \\"E\\" when an error was made is stuff my brothers don't even know about.  I can't wait to hit them with all this info when we get together this holiday season.  As a matter of fact, I've already asked one of my brothers if he knew who was playing left field when Thomson hit the ball and he didn't know.  So much for the baseball trivia experts in my family.<br />I also enjoyed DeLillo's portrayal of the young Cotter Martin as he struggled to grab Thomson's ball from under the seats and his race out of the Polo Grounds as he clutched the much sought after ball.  While I thought I would enjoy the Frank Sinatra/Jackie Gleason references, I found them to be the least desirable part of the book.<br />The bottom line is that I enjoyed the book and now feel quite comfortable discussing this episode in baseball history with the best of them.  I did have one question though -- If Bobby Thomson was \\"hot\\" that day and already had two hits (one of which had driven in a run), why did Branca take the chance of pitching to him?  With men on second and third, I would think he would have walked him and taken his chances with the then rookie \\"Say Hey\\" Willie Mays.  After finishing this book, I did some further research on this game and found that others have asked this same question.  I guess I did learn something growing up as the only girl in that family of all boys.  By the way, they're all getting a copy of this book for Christmas this year.  It's a definite MUST for the \\"true\\" New York Giant fan.to be the least desirable part of the book.<br />The bottom line is that I enjoyed the book and now feel quite comfortable discussing this episode in baseball history with the best of them.  I did have one question though -- If Bobby Thomson was \\"hot\\" that day and already had two hits (one of which had driven in a run), why did Branca take the chance of pitching to him?  With men on second and third, I would think he would have walked him and taken his chances with the then rookie \\"Say Hey\\" Willie Mays.  After finishing this book, I did some further research on this game and found that others have asked this same question.  I guess I did learn something growing up as the only girl in that family of all boys.  By the way, they're all getting a copy of this book for Christmas this year.  It's a definite MUST for the \\"true\\" New York Giant fan.	2001-11-18
US	53006770	R1DW66HK96B0ZD	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	3	4	N	N	&quot;TOTALIUS PERFECTUS READIOLA&quot;	Of course, I just made up the words I used in the subject for this review and likened them to some of the words Harry and his friends used while performing \\"spells\\" at wizard school.  The gist of my words translates to \\"Totally Perfect Reading.\\"<br />Just one chapter into this book and already I could see what all the hoopla is about.  With just seventeen written pages, J.K. Rowlands has taken me out of Pennsylvania and transported me to Privet Drive, the soon to be home of one Harry Potter.  Not only did I unexpectedly enjoy this book, but I loved the feel of the smooth pages and the very different feel of the cover as well.  This turned out to be one great reading experience.  Since the book was written for young adults, it didn't even require me to read between the lines, as everything is right out there at your disposal.  Each chapter was an adventure and all I had to do was read away.<br />Since a number of reviewers have already explained the plot, I'll give you a crash course in Harry Potter 101.<br />...Harry is a boy with wizard powers<br />...Muggles are people like you and me who don't have any unusual powers<br />...Hogwarts is the school of Witchcraft and Wizardry where Harry attends<br />...Ron and Hermione are Harry's best friends at Hogwarts<br />...Quidditch is similar to our soccer but is played in the air on broomsticks<br />...The Sorcerer's Stone can be dangerous if put in the wrong hands<br />If you're like me, then you're probably thinking, \\"I'm a grown person...why would I read this book?\\"  Well, think again.  The phenomenon of Harry Potter is one that is well deserved and it is only after reading this book, that I was able to come to that realization.  It is so clever that it's no wonder it has captured the hearts of all the young kids today.  And what a perfect time I chose to be reading it - during the week that the movie is premiering.  Every day I see clips on TV showing scenes I had just read - what fun!<br />I remember those days when my son was young and I got to see all the new and exciting kid's movies simply by taking him.  At 17, he's no longer interested in going with me but my daughter (25) will be home for Thanksgiving and has promised to accompany me.  It's a good thing I have kids.  Otherwise my husband would be seeing Harry Potter with me because, after reading the book, there's no way I'm not seeing the movie.as young and I got to see all the new and exciting kid's movies simply by taking him.  At 17, he's no longer interested in going with me but my daughter (25) will be home for Thanksgiving and has promised to accompany me.  It's a good thing I have kids.  Otherwise my husband would be seeing Harry Potter with me because, after reading the book, there's no way I'm not seeing the movie.	2001-11-18
US	53006770	RSMBS2W2TL7FO	0312044194	400209095	September	Books	5	14	15	N	N	READING &quot;SEPTEMBER&quot; IN SEPTEMBER, 2001	Like so many other readers, after the events of 9/11, I had a hard time latching on to a book that would hold my interest.  At first I thought something in the mystery/thriller genre would do the trick although I made sure I stayed clear of anything spy or terrorist related.  Finding no solace in that genre, I turned to an author who has never disappointed me and picked up Pilcher's book September, which had been sitting on my shelves for quite some time.  This book called to me as the title was apropos for the month in which I chose to read it.<br />The setting is vintage Pilcher in a small town in Scotland called Strathcroy and right away I'm feeling pleasantly calm.  All the residents are gearing up for the 21st birthday \\"dance\\" for Katy Steynton and I'm wishing my own invitation would arrive in the mail.  The idea for the dance is hatched in May and the book will follow the next three months that will eventually lead up to September and the gala event.  As with most Pilcher books, there is the presiding matriarch of the family and, in this case, it's Violet Aird.  Everything about her is reminding me of my own grandmother so I'm in heaven at this point.<br />Every character in a Pilcher book is colorful and familiar - either like people you know or people you want to know.  This book is no exception as it is filled with housekeepers and grandchildren and estate lords and extended family members and, of course, one resident troublemaker who will keep everyone on guard.  This author is known for happy endings and, while some are heartrending, the feeling of hope and goodness is present on each page.  By the time everyone arrives at the dance on that September eve, you feel as if you've played a big part in planning the festivities.  Naturally the book follows the course of more than just planning for the party and it is chock full of twists and turns and the usual surprises as only this delightful author can write them.  As in all Pilcher books, the potential for disaster always exists as she gathers all the players together in what can either result in devastating emotional turmoil or incomparable happiness.  You'll have to go to the dance to find out what happens!<br />So as the events of the real life September came to a close, my spirits were raised and my hopes for humanity broadened all because I went to \\"Dr. Pilcher.\\"  Give her a try whether you're down and out or on top of the world - she serves it up right no matter what the ailment.  As the famous song goes, \\"It's a long, long time, From May to December, But the days grow short, When you reach September.\\"  We'll never forget September of the year 2001 and I'll never forget this book for helping me through that fateful month.disaster always exists as she gathers all the players together in what can either result in devastating emotional turmoil or incomparable happiness.  You'll have to go to the dance to find out what happens!<br />So as the events of the real life September came to a close, my spirits were raised and my hopes for humanity broadened all because I went to \\"Dr. Pilcher.\\"  Give her a try whether you're down and out or on top of the world - she serves it up right no matter what the ailment.  As the famous song goes, \\"It's a long, long time, From May to December, But the days grow short, When you reach September.\\"  We'll never forget September of the year 2001 and I'll never forget this book for helping me through that fateful month.	2001-11-03
US	53006770	R2NSJH2TLUFQ68	0375500049	253149025	Cold Heart: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	MY HEART IS NOW &quot;COLD&quot;!!	I've so enjoyed the first two books in this series, Cold Shoulder and Cold Blood, that it was actually exciting for me to begin this one in the hopes that Lorraine Page is still on the right track towards putting her life back together.  When Cold Blood ended, Lorraine and her partners had just received a million dollar bonus for solving their last case.  This installment begins with Lorraine spending some of that money getting new office digs, a new car, some new clothes and waiting for the phone to ring in her private investigation agency.  Her assistant Rosie has been replaced by Decker since Rosie and Rooney are still honeymooning in Europe.  Fans of this series were delighted when Rosie found love in Cold Blood - how ironic.<br />The phone finally rings at Page Investigations beginning this new adventure into the world of movie producing, pornography, art theft and a possible love interest for Lorraine.  The appearance of Jake Burton, as the new chief of detectives, will add some spice to the series not only in the police department but in Lorraine's apartment as well.  As she tries to find out who really killed Harry Nathan, all the supporting characters in Harry's world begin to die as well.  As his estate travels from one ex-wife to the other, Lorraine will also travel to the Hamptons and New Mexico in an effort to tie all the loose ends together.<br />While Lorraine is out of town, many things will be going on behind the scenes back home in LA.  Rooney and Rosie have returned from their honeymoon and come up with some startling evidence that might bring Lorraine's past demons back to the forefront endangering her life.<br />Cold Heart is definitely a perfect title for this book as my heart was cold as I read and cried through the last few pages.  I have only one thing to say to the author - How Could You?	2001-11-01
US	53006770	R1TPR29MYWRRDU	0679441042	213031560	Cold Blood	Books	4	4	4	N	N	IS THE BLOOD &quot;COLD&quot; ON THIS CASE??	When I read Cold Shoulder, the first book in this series, I immediately felt a connection to the main character, Lorraine Page.  She's nothing like I am - as a matter of fact, she's quite different but she seems like someone I would like.  As she struggles through her daily routine, trying to put her life back in order, she manages to capture the reader's heart in such a way that we will defend her to her dying day.  In Cold Shoulder, she was actually given the \\"cold shoulder\\" by all those who knew and loved her.  When her partner is killed on duty, she begins a downward spiral causing her to lose her job as a policewoman, lose her husband, lose her kids, resort to drugs and alcohol for some relief from her nightmares and basically give up living.  It's not until she meets \\"Rosie\\", an AA member, that her life will finally get the help it needs to go on.<br />Cold Blood now finds Lorraine starting her own private investigation agency with Rosie as her partner.  Their coupling is so very needed by both of them. Rosie will keep Lorraine on track and Lorraine will provide a much needed source for Rosie to mother.  In this episode, Lorraine will travel from LA to New Orleans as she tries to find the missing teenage daughter of a wealthy California couple.  She will be joined by Rosie, as well as Bill Rooney, a retired police captain, and Nick Bartello, another old friend of Bill's from the police department.  The foursome has a great incentive...a million-dollar bonus if they can find 18-year-old Anna Louise Caley dead or alive.<br />This book is a fun romp through New Orleans in the midst of Mardi Gras.  As usual, Lorraine is overbearingly persistent in tracking down all the clues that will hopefully lead to some closure for the girl's parents.  Although the reader hopes and prays that the girl will be found alive, her blood just might be \\"cold\\" by the time they find her.<br />I'm just about ready to pick up the next book in the series - Cold Heart - and am looking forward to following Lorraine around again and making sure she stays away from the bottle.ard to following Lorraine around again and making sure she stays away from the bottle.	2001-11-01
US	53006770	R1IILM44P9JPXH	0345445724	29011818	Entering Normal	Books	5	0	3	N	N	NEXT STOP:  NORMAL, MASSACHUSETTS	I enjoy when I read the acknowledgment page of a book and see one of my favorite authors mentioned.  This was the case with Entering Normal as LeClaire credits Jacquelyn Mitchard (Deep End of the Ocean) with insisting on the title for the book.  Right there and then, that gives the book its first star.  Then one of the blurbs on the back of the cover is from another favorite author of mine, Nancy Thayer (Belonging), so there's another star.  LeClaire, herself, is solely responsible for the last three stars I'm giving this book making the total number of stars a resounding five.  She has managed to take a tough subject, the death of a child, and turn it into a book of hope and promise as opposed to one of morbid episodes.  And she uses some memorable quotes in doing so -- \\"A real part of her died in that crash with Todd:  The part that goes on tomorrow.\\"  You can imagine how hard it must be just to go on.<br />This is the story of two women.  They are totally different and from decidedly different parts of the country yet possess one of the strongest bonds imaginable - that of motherhood.  Rose has been living in a daze since her teenage son and only child, Todd, died five years ago in a car accident.  Her husband Ned has tried to encourage her to get on with her life but to no avail.  It's not until twenty-year-old Opal arrives in the town of Normal with her five-year-old son Zack that Rose shows any desire to get on with her life.  Opal rents the house next door and the two women begin to form a connection.  This book follows Rose and Opal's unlikely relationship and sets the stage for two women who will ultimately need each other and will derive strength from one another as the story unfolds.<br />If you enjoy women's relationship type books, this one is first rate.  It is not maudlin nor is it sappy.  It's a well-written story with some plausible twists and turns and, if you follow the right \\"signs\\", you too can end up in Normal.  And don't be turned off by the loss of a child subject matter.  It is simply the backdrop of a story that's handled beautifully and realistically by LeClaire.  I have a teenage son who has just begun to drive and I thought this book might be hard for me to read.  It is anything but hard...it is one moving, enjoyable, heartwarming book.oss of a child subject matter.  It is simply the backdrop of a story that's handled beautifully and realistically by LeClaire.  I have a teenage son who has just begun to drive and I thought this book might be hard for me to read.  It is anything but hard...it is one moving, enjoyable, heartwarming book.	2001-10-28
US	53006770	R2X415R48I2FVS	0060194170	489274794	About the Author	Books	5	12	13	N	N	&quot;PAGE-TURNER OF THE YEAR&quot; FOR ME	When I heard about this book, I assumed it was another non-fiction book by Colapinto.  The title alone is suggestive of a non-fiction work.  Well, it certainly isn't in that genre.  It's a psychological thriller of the very best kind...not a dark thriller but more of a light one.  It's like a roller coaster ride -- a trip to hell and back.  Colapinto has managed to take all of my favorite book elements and combine them in one story.  I couldn't put it down trying to figure out just what would happen next.<br />The premise is great.  Cal Cunningham is a struggling writer who has hopes of one day penning a great novel.  It's no surprise that he hasn't been successful since, for the past two years, he hasn't written a thing...not one page.  He thinks about it all the time, and imagines himself as a best-selling author, but hasn't been motivated yet to put that pen to page.<br />He spends his days at his job stacking books in a local bookstore.  At nights, he spends his time carousing with loose women in tawdry bars.  He shares a cramped NYC apartment with his roommate Stewart Church, a law school student.  Stewart is such a bore and spends most of his time typing away on his laptop in the seclusion of his bedroom.  When he comes up for air on the weekends, Cal regales him with stories of his ventures into the wild nightlife of New York.  Stewart hangs on every word...and that's all I'm going to tell you.  What happens next is unbelievable.  One little event, one little decision made, one little lapse in judgment will put Cal on the ride of his life.  Unfortunately, he might not be able to jump off when he wants to.<br />This is the story of how Cal Cunningham becomes a best-selling author.  It's by far the page-turner of the year for me reminiscent of other favorite page-turners like Scott Smith's A Simple Plan and Douglas Kennedy's The Big Picture.  I can't say enough about this book other than \\"READ IT.\\"  I found out something \\"about the author\\" John Colapinto - not only is he terrific but he's also found a new fan in this reader.t only is he terrific but he's also found a new fan in this reader.	2001-10-28
US	53006770	RCXOPZPS5HC4I	0385413041	956782258	Beach Music	Books	5	222	234	N	N	MUSIC TO MY EARS	To read a book by Pat Conroy is to come to the realization that so much of everything else I read, and think is good, is truly just an appetizer getting me ready for the main course -- which is what Conroy is.  Every sentence you read lures you into the web of Conroy's storytelling.  This is a book that will take you from the piazzas in Rome to the low country of South Carolina.  You will fall so deeply in love with each setting that you couldn't possibly decide which place you would prefer to live.<br />Every character is a tortured soul who has a tale to tell --  one more heartbreaking than the other.  The main story follows Jack McCall, who flees to Rome with his young daughter Leah after his beloved wife Shyla has committed suicide.  He leaves behind a bevy of colorful family and friends in an effort to escape his torment and begin a new life in a new land. As a travel writer by trade, Jack is able to pick up and live wherever he chooses.  It is a telegram from a family member that will finally bring Jack back to South Carolina to face his demons and learn the stories of all those he loves.<br />Conroy has the ability of dropping crumbs along the way leading you to each character's hidden story.  He touches on times in history involving the Holocaust and the Vietnam War -- each decade so real that I don't even want to think about the horrors.  But it is these horrors that have come to shape the characters whose cards have been dealt and whose hands must be played.  They are all part of a finely interwoven story with South Carolina as the stage for the grand finale.<br />In reading the book, I can only wonder if the author can write the last twenty pages and not cry himself.  I don't usually cry when reading a book but I must admit that this one did me in.  Conroy so neatly ties up all the loose ends so that the reader feels no need for a sequel as they are confident that the lives of the characters they have come to love will go on.<br />While this is a book about tortured souls, it is also a book that holds great promise filled with love and hope and devotion and yes...redemption.  We always talk about the books that will stay with us forever.  This is one for me...music to my ears...Beach Music that is.ut tortured souls, it is also a book that holds great promise filled with love and hope and devotion and yes...redemption.  We always talk about the books that will stay with us forever.  This is one for me...music to my ears...Beach Music that is.	2001-10-21
US	53006770	R1CUV9F1W0U1WU	0425121631	425740762	Rules of Prey	Books	5	133	137	N	N	RULE #1 -- START A SERIES WITH A &quot;GREAT&quot; BOOK	A few years ago, I asked the owner of a bookstore to recommend some books for me.  She said that she had been home sick for the past week and spent the time reading all of the &quot;prey&quot; books.  At the time, I had no idea what she was talking about and thought they might have something to do with religion as in &quot;pray&quot; books.  After some further discussion, I realized I had stumbled upon a great series by John Sandford.  I started to buy the books then and it's taken me this long to finally read the first one.  Since I read a lot of mysteries, many of which are part of a series, I'm pretty savvy when it comes to the most popular male protagonists out there at the moment.  Now that I've been introduced to Lucas Davenport, my only regret is that I waited this long to begin my relationship with a now favorite character.<br />The story is a good one and involves a serial killer whose identity is introduced to the reader at the beginning of the book.  I like when an author does this as it enables me to get inside the killer's head and follow him around from place to place -- not only to the scene of his crimes but in his everyday life at work and home as well.  I also love it when the moment arrives and I realize what the title of the book means.  In Rules of Prey, the killer, referred to as &quot;maddog&quot;, has certain rules that he follows so as not to get caught.  For example, he never kills anyone he knows, he never uses the same weapon twice and he never has a motive.  He always leaves a note at each crime scene communicating one of his rules.  Not only does this serve as a challenge to our main character, Lucas Davenport, it is also the killer's &quot;in your face&quot; way of letting Lucas know that he is someone to be reckoned with.<br />As a lead character, Lieutenant Davenport is a dream.  He drives around in a Porsche, which was purchased with money he earns not only from gambling but also from a side job he has creating intense, strategic video games.  He's smooth, good-looking and a real lady killer (no pun intended).  I enjoyed the way he tracked down the clues, which will eventually lead to the killer.  He also has no problem working around the &quot;rules&quot; set up by his own police department and I found this flagrant use or &quot;misuse&quot; of his own form of justice a bit ingratiating.  But this particular case will prove not to be an easy chase as his sometimes-inept Minneapolis police department is foiled by the &quot;maddog&quot; on more than one occasion.<br />I understand from other readers that these books just get better and better.  That's a real incentive for any mystery reader and is an added bonus just knowing that I get to spend some more quality time with Lucas.  This is certainly a series for the ladies as well as the guys.  &quot;Shadow Prey&quot; here I come.deo games.  He's smooth, good-looking and a real lady killer (no pun intended).  I enjoyed the way he tracked down the clues, which will eventually lead to the killer.  He also has no problem working around the &quot;rules&quot; set up by his own police department and I found this flagrant use or &quot;misuse&quot; of his own form of justice a bit ingratiating.  But this particular case will prove not to be an easy chase as his sometimes-inept Minneapolis police department is foiled by the &quot;maddog&quot; on more than one occasion.<br />I understand from other readers that these books just get better and better.  That's a real incentive for any mystery reader and is an added bonus just knowing that I get to spend some more quality time with Lucas.  This is certainly a series for the ladies as well as the guys.  &quot;Shadow Prey&quot; here I come.	2001-09-30
US	53006770	R1O640R61MNKCK	0804113874	564572648	Vanishing Act (Jane Whitefield)	Books	3	38	42	N	N	YOU CAN RUN BUT CAN YOU &quot;HIDE&quot;?	The good news is that the protagonist of this book is a very unique fictional character.  The bad news is that the story was a bit convoluted to hold my attention.<br />Here's the premise -- Jane Whitefield is half Native American and is in the business of helping people disappear.  She has spent the last ten years of her life hiding people with the full knowledge that if they can disappear, without leaving a trail, and stay hidden for two or three months, the chance of ever being found drops considerably.  Her clients run the gamut from wives escaping spousal abuse to informants escaping the mob -- all innocent people who cannot be suitably protected without some kind of help.  Jane is considered a &quot;guide&quot;.  She guides people out of their fragile situations with the aid of her network of willing accomplices who help her with new identifications and transport for these runaways.<br />The setting of this episode takes place in Upstate New York where Jane is able to use her Native American instincts to weave her way through the lakes and forests of this region.  In the true tradition of her Seneca ancestors, her ingenuity is remarkable and her intuition extraordinary.  This was the interesting part of the book as I learned about the cultures of the tribes that originally inhabited this area as Jane actually takes one of her fugitives to an Indian reservation for refuge.<br />The opening chapter starts off with a chase through the airport as a victim of an abusive spouse is being trailed by a bounty hunter hired by her husband.  Little does the bounty hunter know that Jane Whitefield is in that same airport setting the stage for an exciting story.  The events that follow include the mob, embezzling, a deadly poker game, a framed accountant and a chase against the elements.<br />I was finally happy to be reading a book centered around a female heroine as opposed to the usual wise-cracking, ex-alcoholic, male private eye who usually appears in most of the mystery series I read.  However, for a book that started out great, this one went downhill as the plot became very predictable before page 60.  This was disappointing but not enough to keep me from following this character to the second book in this series -- &quot;Dance For The Dead.&quot;  Another Amazon reviewer wrote -- &quot;Jane Whitefield for President.&quot;  These are my sentiments exactly and if you take the time to get involved in this series, you'll especially enjoy the skill and resourcefulness of this true ancestor of the Seneca Indian tribe now turned &quot;guide to those in desperate need.&quot;ry series I read.  However, for a book that started out great, this one went downhill as the plot became very predictable before page 60.  This was disappointing but not enough to keep me from following this character to the second book in this series -- &quot;Dance For The Dead.&quot;  Another Amazon reviewer wrote -- &quot;Jane Whitefield for President.&quot;  These are my sentiments exactly and if you take the time to get involved in this series, you'll especially enjoy the skill and resourcefulness of this true ancestor of the Seneca Indian tribe now turned &quot;guide to those in desperate need.&quot;	2001-09-20
US	53006770	R3DB2BS606UTC4	0743422449	876610287	Mercy	Books	3	105	113	N	N	MEA CULPA	I can't remember reading a book where all the characters had such undesirable traits that reading any further became an effort.  The only character who was somewhat bearable was a cat and that's probably because it spent its time either eating or hidden in someone's backpack serving as a parallel to everything else that's hidden away in this small town of Wheelock, MA.<br />I'm already a Jodi Picoult fan having read and liked four of her other books -- The Pact, Keeping Faith, Plain Truth and Salem Falls -- so when I say that I didn't enjoy this book at all, I have a good basis for comparison.  Never before have I read a book where I felt so detached from each and every character.  The wife Allie has no backbone, the husband Cam has no loyalty, the mistress Mia has no values, the mercy killer Jamie has no fortitude, his dead wife Maggie was selfish, Cam's mother Ellen is a wacko.....I could go on and on.<br />The backdrop of the story is one of intense love -- so intense that your emotions take over your senses.  There's a case of a mercy killing, another story of a cheating spouse and a courtroom scene where all the scenarios are played out.  The events leading up to and after the killing are all impulsive -- sometimes so impulsive that they're hard to believe.  There are other parts in the book where reality is suspended and mysticism takes over.  I'm always at a loss when an author resorts to this.<br />Probably the biggest complaint I have is the intense lack of editing.  I can't stand when I'm reading a book and two people are having a conversation yet the name you're reading on the typewritten page is NOT the name of the person who is actually doing the talking.  This happened on three separate occasions and after awhile, it only added to my overall confusion and lack of continuity of my reading experience.  I'm usually not this hard when reviewing a book and it could be the fact that I read it in the midst of our great American tragedy which could have altered my mood considerably.  For that reason, I've given it three stars as opposed to the two stars which I had originally intended.  Somehow though, I don't think it was my mood...the book just wasn't that enjoyable for me.d my mood considerably.  For that reason, I've given it three stars as opposed to the two stars which I had originally intended.  Somehow though, I don't think it was my mood...the book just wasn't that enjoyable for me.	2001-09-17
US	53006770	RJ5OELL0O4AZV	0345447832	383802287	The Surgeon	Books	5	9	10	N	N	THE BANALITY OF EVIL	Tess Gerritsen is the master of the medical thriller in the 21st century and The Surgeon proves it. The fact that she herself is a doctor, as well as an author, adds an authenticity to the book that is unparelleled. Very rarely do I read a book that actually scares me but this one did.  How can women in Boston get a good night's sleep when there is a lunatic running around surgically removing their uteruses and doing it while they are still alive and tied up?<br />When Dr. Catherine Cordell arrived in Boston from Savannah two years ago, she thought she had left a nightmare behind her.  She had shot and killed a serial killer as he was about to make her his fourth victim.  Now it seems that either his ghost has shown up in Boston or there is a copycat on the loose as women are once again being killed and the modus operandi is the same as it was in Savannah -- chloroform/Rohypnol, duct tape and the removal of the woman's womb.<br />There's always a detective willing to go that extra mile to solve a crime and in this case it's Thomas Moore, a cop who is so well respected that he is referred to as Saint Thomas in his precinct.  There's a good mix of other supporting characters and just as the serial killer has made Dr. Cordell the center of his focus, so have all the characters in this book.  Gerritsen's cast will be jealous and envious and lonely and chauvinistic but they will all pull together to get the job done.<br />I found myself locking the doors in my home this weekend as I finished reading this book.  Gerritsen points out that evil can be so ordinary that people you see on an everyday basis could be thinking of ways to kill you.  It's an eerie thought.  If I have one complaint about this book, it's the fact that there were some obvious clues sitting right there that the cops were not following up on.  At one point, I wanted to take their hand and help them solve the crime.  Authors can manipulate their stories any way they please and this reader will gladly be manipulated by Gerritsen as I see her as a primo author in this medical thriller genre.manipulated by Gerritsen as I see her as a primo author in this medical thriller genre.	2001-09-10
US	53006770	RHWZUSIVTDTVD	0385334036	583323315	The Smoke Jumper	Books	3	35	53	N	N	DISAPPOINTED AND ANGRY	I was disappointed in this latest novel by Nicholas Evans because it was nowhere as good a story as his two previous novels, The Horse Whisperer and The Loop. I am angry because this had the makings of a \\"great\\" book and ended up being nothing more than a longer version of a Nicholas Sparks' novel. And, don't get me wrong - I enjoy a good Nicholas Sparks' book but not when I'm supposed to be reading a Nicholas Evans' book.<br />Set in Missoula, Montana and inspired by real life smoke jumpers, this book follows the lives of its three main characters Ed Tully, Connor Ford and Julia Bishop over a period of about ten years. Ed and Connor are best friends brought together by their love of life and interest in \\"smoke jumping.\\" Ed is exuberant in nature while Connor is reserved yet they both complement each other. Julia is Ed's girlfriend and she will become another thing in which the two men share an interest. This will become a book about choices with loyalty and friendship being at its core.<br />Prior to this reading, I had no idea what a smoke jumper was and found out that there are only 400 of them in America. This is one of the reasons I always gravitate towards Evans' books - I always learn something from them. In The Horse Whisperer, I learned that people COULD talk to horses. In The Loop, I learned that the wolf is an endangered species and people invent elaborate traps in which to catch them. In The Smoke Jumper, I learned that these jumpers parachute out of planes into \\"fire areas\\" and have devised incredible ways of fighting and starving fires.<br />For the first 100 pages, I loved this book until it became a predictable love triangle. Girl meets boy, girl meets boy's friend, girl is attracted to friend, girl feels obligated to boy, tragedy strikes boy and girl until it becomes like every other book of this type that I've read. I enjoyed the beginning, which had to do with the fires, and the wilderness and the program for which Julia worked whereby they brought troubled teens into the open country and helped them find themselves. Once tragedy struck on the mountain, the whole emphasis of the book shifted to the point where some portions were not even plausible. If only the storyline would have continued in the smoke jumper direction, I would have been happy but, in the off-season, Connor is a photographer and spends his time taking pictures of atrocities in third world countries such as Bosnia and Uganda. This book then becomes a convoluted tapestry of puzzle pieces that the reader should be putting together along the way as the main characters strive to find some kind of happiness in their lives. Once the setting shifted from Montana to Africa, I lost interest and found everything from that point on just plain boring and unbelievable to say the least.<br />There are very few heroes in the world and this book had the ability to create a fictional one yet it failed, in my opinion, because so many of the choices made by the main characters were downright \\"stupid\\". Since the fires that the smoke jumpers put out are very damaging, they are also cleansing in that new growth will eventually appear. I'm sure this was probably the moral of the story but Connor's stint in Africa left me begging to get back on U.S. soil so this new growth could begin. While the characters in the end might have finally found self-fulfillment, this reader certainly didn't.t troubled teens into the open country and helped them find themselves. Once tragedy struck on the mountain, the whole emphasis of the book shifted to the point where some portions were not even plausible. If only the storyline would have continued in the smoke jumper direction, I would have been happy but, in the off-season, Connor is a photographer and spends his time taking pictures of atrocities in third world countries such as Bosnia and Uganda. This book then becomes a convoluted tapestry of puzzle pieces that the reader should be putting together along the way as the main characters strive to find some kind of happiness in their lives. Once the setting shifted from Montana to Africa, I lost interest and found everything from that point on just plain boring and unbelievable to say the least.<br />There are very few heroes in the world and this book had the ability to create a fictional one yet it failed, in my opinion, because so many of the choices made by the main characters were downright \\"stupid\\". Since the fires that the smoke jumpers put out are very damaging, they are also cleansing in that new growth will eventually appear. I'm sure this was probably the moral of the story but Connor's stint in Africa left me begging to get back on U.S. soil so this new growth could begin. While the characters in the end might have finally found self-fulfillment, this reader certainly didn't.	2001-09-06
US	53006770	R9G1EI9F4AVB3	0446602450	454060985	Spencerville	Books	4	41	41	N	N	SPENCERVILLE -- A NICE PLACE TO LIVE;  A NICE BOOK TO VISIT	Having just finished reading Spencerville, I can now easily understand why most DeMille fans rate this as their least favorite of all his books.  While I'm not saying it's a bad book, because it most certainly isn't, it just doesn't meet the exalted standards that followers of this author have come to expect.  With a story involving a love triangle, there was just not enough &quot;meat&quot; there to warrant 481 pages.<br />To net it out, Keith Landry has been an Army intelligence officer working for our government for the past twenty-five years.  With the culmination of the Cold War, many employees in his position are forced into early retirement whether they like it or not.  In his case, he didn't like it.  With angry and hurt feelings, he heads home to his family's farm in Spencerville, Ohio, which also happens to be the home of his high school/college sweetheart, Annie Prentis.  Problems start to arise when he and Annie meet up again, especially since she is now married to the Chief of Police, Cliff Baxter, who also happens to be a former classmate of Keith's.  In addition to running the police department, Cliff also runs Annie's life and is depicted as a husband who is not only unfaithful and possessive but verbally, emotionally and sexually abusive as well.  It's about time for DeMille's &quot;knight in shining armor&quot; to step in.<br />While this is definitely not a five star book, I don't think I could ever give a DeMille book less than four stars as his writing and storytelling are so superior to other authors when weaving a tale of espionage, cat and mouse escapades, murder and mayhem or a love triangle such as in Spencerville.  Don't get me wrong; this is not your usual love triangle.  Since it's told by DeMille, the players are experienced both at subterfuge as well as mind games with the common thread being &quot;the love of a good woman.&quot;  It gets very scary for awhile since Cliff Baxter is the type of irrational man that just might do anything and Spencerville is just the type of small town where a man like Cliff just might get away with it.<br />This is the sixth book I've read by this author and I'm glad there's still a few more out there for me to conquer.and Spencerville is just the type of small town where a man like Cliff just might get away with it.<br />This is the sixth book I've read by this author and I'm glad there's still a few more out there for me to conquer.	2001-09-03
US	53006770	R2U6RW5PKO8WIE	1585670677	588981575	Coney	Books	2	4	6	N	N	NOT THE CONEY ISLAND OF "MY" YOUTH!!	OK -- I bought this book because of its cover in my never-ending search to recapture some of the feelings I have of growing up in Brooklyn. This one takes place a little before my time (1939) but I have so many fond memories of visiting Coney Island as a child that I was anxious to nostalgically relive some of that joy. In retrospect, I should have stayed with my perceptions of Coney Island rather than replace them with those of the poverty and vulgarity as represented by Ducovny in this novel. I'm not saying that his visions are wrong -- they are probably so much more right than mine. Mine, however, are NICER!!<br />The main character, 13-year-old Harry Catzker, is the good natured type of boy any parent would be proud of yet he's saddled with a mother who doesn't want him and a father who spends his time talking to \\"Freud\\". He gets his affection from Aba, the Yiddish poet, who is also a boarder in his home and who converses with Harry on matters of philosophy and politics while under a cherry tree. I'm not sure if the parallel here is supposed to be Chekov or George Washington?? Ducovny paints a picture of Coney Island which is replete with freaks, wild dogs, gangsters, crooked cops and immigrants. The freaks, however, seem to have more backbone than the non-freaks, yet their depravity, on which the author seems to dwell, made for some less than desirable reading for me.<br />The story picks up when a plot is launched by the gangsters to make some real money but just when I was finally getting into the book, it abruptly ends. The story comes to a cataclysmic finale when one unforgettable night all the players in Harry's life are faced with some momentous decisions that will have far reaching effects on the central character. While I felt deeply for the Harry Catzker that Ducovny has created, the book was a little over the edge for me in terms of reading enjoyment and thus my two star rating.<br />There are many comparisons made to Hitler and the Holocaust and what was going on in Europe during the same time period. Ducovny depicts the same things happening in Coney Island on a much smaller scale, where the weak are overtaken by the strong and the good people are ruled by the bad. There was obviously a subterranean luridness about this area of which I was unaware either intentionally or naively -- another coincidence to the Holocaust.was going on in Europe during the same time period. Ducovny depicts the same things happening in Coney Island on a much smaller scale, where the weak are overtaken by the strong and the good people are ruled by the bad. There was obviously a subterranean luridness about this area of which I was unaware either intentionally or naively -- another coincidence to the Holocaust.	2001-09-03
US	53006770	R2QOZS6F4CW74	0553280368	599528019	C Is for Corpse (Kinsey Millhone Mysteries)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	"C" IS FOR COZY	I usually don't like to use the word \\"cozy\\" in describing a mystery because it makes me think I won't like it but I'd have to say that Grafton's alphabet series can only be described as such. There isn't much violence yet most of the stories do involve a murder. She has the knack for writing plausible yarns that keep the reader guessing until the very end. \\"C\\" Is For Corpse is no exception and was a very enjoyable read in my opinion<br />These are all quick reads and, while they can stand alone, it's more fun starting with \\"A\\" and following Kinsey's caseload from month to month. Grafton has written these books in such a way that when you finish one and start the next, only a matter of weeks have passed in Kinsey's life. I find the best time to read them is when you're craving something light and not too taxing on the brain yet written well enough to maintain your interest level. I have \\"D\\" Is For Deadbeat lined up next but I'll have to read a few \\"heavier\\" books first so that I can fully appreciate the relaxation I experience when reading the next letter in this alphabet series.	2001-09-02
US	53006770	R3FAKHHVDKYXLQ	0805067183	260690598	Vermeer: A View of Delft	Books	5	53	53	N	N	THE MASTERY OF DELFT -- THE MASTERY OF ANTHONY BAILEY	I'm certainly no expert on the non-fiction genre and definitely no expert on art history but I do know a well-researched and enjoyable piece of work when I come across it.  I came in the backdoor on this one having become fascinated by Vermeer after reading Tracy Chevalier's Girl With A Pearl Earring.  I followed that one up with Susan Vreeland's Girl In Hyacinth Blue and then came across Anthony Bailey's book.  What a wonderful way to continue my journey into this author's own portrait of this master painter and what a surprise to find that it contains black and white and some color pictures of Vermeer's paintings as well.<br />While very little is known about Vermeer's life, through the genius of Bailey, you come away from this book feeling you know the man.  What we do know is that he lived in the mid 17th century, was a Reformed Protestant until he married the Catholic Catharina Bolnes and fathered 11 children as well as 35 masterpieces.  At a time when painters were in abundance in Delft and industry was striving, the picture of Vermeer is still that of a struggling artist trying to feed and clothe a large family.  It is a wonder, Bailey points out, that amidst all the noise and commotion that must have gone on in his house and the financial problems that must have weighed heavily on his shoulders, that he was still able to paint such masterpieces that put the beholder at ease merely by their stillness.  Vermeer was never an &quot;all-inclusive artist&quot; notes Bailey and none of his paintings incorporate a single flower.  He favored the use of the &quot;local colours&quot; of yellow, white and blue.  Bailey also notes that he was &quot;fond of rendering the effects of sunlight and sometimes succeeded to the point of complete illusion.&quot;<br />The author mentions the trademarks found in Vermeer's paintings -- the white wine jug, the map on the wall, the bowl of fruit on a carpeted table, finials in the form of a lion's head at the back of the chair and, my personal favorite, the black and white floor tiles that helped the artist establish perspective.  He also explains Vermeer's possible use of the camera obscura to focus his view.  There were so many interesting things presented by the author, one of which was the different way Vermeer signed his name.  Bailey shows five different signatures all playing around with the V and M in Vermeer's name.  Another thing I found engrossing was how Vermeer put things into his paintings and then painted them out.  We can only see this now because of modern X-ray and infrared equipment.<br />I could go on and on about all I learned after reading this book but some of the more interesting parts occur after Vermeer's death and have to do with Hitler's possession of some of these masterpieces as well as Van Meegeren's forgeries of Vermeer's works in the 1900's.  Of the 35 known Vermeer works, one painting, The Concert, is still missing, having been stolen in 1990.<br />I culminated my fascination of Vermeer with a trip to the Metropolitan Museum of Art this week to see the Delft/Vermeer exhibit.  Having just read Bailey's book, I felt quite knowledgeable not only concerning Vermeer but all things Delft in general.  Upon exiting the exhibit, I walked directly into the gift shop where Anthony Bailey's book was not only on sale but being purchased by all those around me.  So not only do I congratulate this author on a work well done, but also on the best timing possible for publication that one could imagine.<br />I'll end this review with my favorite lines from the book -- those that sum up Vermeer's life in the eyes of Anthony Bailey.  &quot;He remains in some respects, the missing man in some of his own paintings:  the person who has just left the room, or who is expected at any moment.  He is impatient to be found, to be seen, but while he waits, he paints stillness.&quot;<br />Anthony Bailey has made Johannes Vermeer come alive for me with interesting stories, things that might have been and a wonderfully descriptive Delft region by which Vermeer was obviously inspired.  To me he is no longer lost, but found on the pages written by Bailey.ve been and a wonderfully descriptive Delft region by which Vermeer was obviously inspired.  To me he is no longer lost, but found on the pages written by Bailey.	2001-05-19
US	53006770	RJARYR2F1OJC2	0316695262	851439685	Right As Rain: A Novel	Books	5	35	40	N	N	WHAT IS &quot;RIGHT AS RAIN&quot; -- THIS BOOK IS!!!	In a recent issue of Book Magazine, George Pelecanos claims that he<br />doesn't want the words &quot;cool and tough&quot; to dominate his dust<br />jacket blurbs in describing his writing so I'll have to come up with<br />some other adjectives to describe his explosive storylines and quick<br />dialogue.  He describes one of the characters in his book as being<br />&quot;violent, fearless, sensitive and disturbed&quot; -- come to<br />think of it, these are the adjectives that could be used to describe<br />his own writing in this book.  I had an opportunity to see Pelecanos<br />in person at a book signing in Philadelphia and if the words cool and<br />tough shouldn't be used to describe his books, they certainly can be<br />used to describe this author, as the picture in his book doesn't do<br />him justice.<br />In Right As Rain, Derek Strange is a 50 something<br />ex-cop who now has his own investigation agency.  Terry Quinn is a 30<br />something ex-cop who now works in a bookstore.  The shooting death of<br />black cop Chris Wilson at the hands of a white cop will bring these<br />two together as the white cop and shooter was Terry Quinn.  Strange is<br />hired by Wilson's mother to clear her son's name since Quinn said he<br />acted in self-defense in shooting Wilson. The investigation will lead<br />Derek Strange to a drug trafficking ring originating out of Florida<br />and supplying the D.C. dealers with enough drugs to make everyone<br />rich.  The middlemen in D.C. are lowlifes and their connection is even<br />worse.  Pelecanos explores the lives of the junkies, the dealers, the<br />bad cops involved and some good cops trying to come to terms with<br />urban life in D.C. as well as their own prejudicial agenda.  This<br />isn't the Washington, D.C. you see on CSPAN.  The author states that<br />there are &quot;more violent criminals there, per capita, than in any<br />city in the country.&quot; Yet it is quite obvious that George<br />Pelecanos loves this city and knows its good points as well as its bad<br />ones.  His research is extensive and I've heard he's been known to<br />drive around with D.C. cops at night to further understand the inner<br />workings of the beat....after signing stacks of liability releases I'm<br />sure.<br />The story comes to a cataclysmic end as all roads lead to one<br />and everyone's story becomes connected.  It was at this point in the<br />book that I truly became nervous wondering how it would all end up.<br />This is the true sign of a good mystery writer -- one who can keep you<br />on the edge of your seat.<br />Pelecanos makes some very good points on<br />social reform yet he doesn't lecture you as some other authors might.<br />He just throws his thoughts out there perhaps hoping they'll stick.<br />He's also obviously a music lover and aficionado of books with a<br />western theme as most every scene in the book has accompanying music<br />mentioned as well as many western book titles being read in the<br />bookstore where Quinn works.  Lovers of music and westerns will eat<br />this up.<br />The teaming up of Derek Strange and Terry Quinn is one that<br />definitely works and this reader hopes to meet up with them again in<br />another Pelecanos' offering.  If you've yet to check out George<br />Pelecanos, I'd suggest starting with this one since you'd be hard<br />pressed not to enjoy it.  I know that Pelecanos is being compared to<br />many other authors out there right now.  Believe me, there's no<br />comparison -- he's in a class of his own.with D.C. cops at night to further understand the inner workings of the beat....after signing stacks of liability releases I'm sure.<br />The story comes to a cataclysmic end as all roads lead to one and everyone's story becomes connected.  It was at this point in the book that I truly became nervous wondering how it would all end up. This is the true sign of a good mystery writer -- one who can keep you on the edge of your seat.<br />Pelecanos makes some very good points on social reform yet he doesn't lecture you as some other authors might. He just throws his thoughts out there perhaps hoping they'll stick. He's also obviously a music lover and aficionado of books with a western theme as most every scene in the book has accompanying music mentioned as well as many western book titles being read in the bookstore where Quinn works.  Lovers of music and westerns will eat this up.<br />The teaming up of Derek Strange and Terry Quinn is one that definitely works and this reader hopes to meet up with them again in another Pelecanos' offering.  If you've yet to check out George Pelecanos, I'd suggest starting with this one since you'd be hard pressed not to enjoy it.  I know that Pelecanos is being compared to many other authors out there right now.  Believe me, there's no comparison -- he's in a class of his own.	2001-03-12
US	53006770	R2HDPK1PAAEYB5	0446525367	828168267	Crazy for Cornelia	Books	1	14	17	N	N	"NOT SO" CRAZY FOR CORNELIA	I know I'm in the minority here but, in good conscience, I could not give this book more than a two star rating.  It is yet another backwards Cinderella story adding to the already large mountain of books cashing in on this fairy tale.  This one, however,is not half as good as many others that I've read.  As a matter of fact, the premise was so \\"silly\\" that I had the impulse to close the book forever on many occasions.  This was one of those books that I bought based solely on the already existing five star Amazon customer reviews of which I am now dubious.<br /><br />Cornelia Lord is the debutante daughter of wealthy Chester Lord.  Kevin Doyle, a struggling \\"neon\\" artist, is the doorman at her Upper East Side<br />building.  Cornelia is also consumed, to the point of obsession, with<br />the man who she feels rightfully discovered electricity, Nikola Tesla.<br />She has even dubbed herself \\"The Electric Girl\\" as she runs<br />around town working on a project that would reintroduce the world to<br />this inventor, hopefully opening their eyes to the \\"true\\"<br />hero of electricity.  Tesla has been dead for many years but died in<br />poverty never fully being appreciated for his efforts in bringing<br />light to the world.  Cornelia is here to right this wrong.<br />Unfortunately, there are many stumbling blocks in her way -- the<br />biggest one being her father's protege in business, Tucker Fisk.  He<br />is the young son of Chester Lord's college roommate and has come to<br />Lord & Company to help Chester run it.  His mind is really set on<br />taking over the company one day.  Of course, if he can get Cornelia to<br />fall in love with him, that would not only strengthen his goal but<br />would also make him a major shareholder if he can get her to marry<br />him.<br /><br />The one bright \\"light\\" in the book comes in the form<br />of Kevin Doyle, the struggling artist and doorman, who wants to<br />fulfill his dead mother's dream of paying homage to the martyred<br />St. Sebastian by building a neon sculpture to his image and likeness.<br />He is so good-hearted to the point of being naive.  But Corny will see<br />something in Kevin's aura far beyond what others can see.  Is the<br />pumpkin coach ready to take them away?  Will the glass slipper fit HIS<br />foot?\\" I really didn't care as I found both the obsessions with<br />Nikola Tesla and St. Sebastian somewhat interesting but mostly inane<br />and ridiculous.<br /><br />For me, the only redeeming thing was the information<br />on Nikola Tesla. I did some research on this inventor after finishing<br />the book and his story is a somewhat sad but believable tale.  Perhaps<br />it was this author's intent to open the eyes of his readers to the<br />injustices endured by Tesla and did so by exposing them within the<br />contents of this novel.-hearted to the point of being naive.  But Corny will see  something in Kevin's aura far beyond what others can see.  Is the  pumpkin coach ready to take them away?  Will the glass slipper fit HIS  foot?\\" I really didn't care as I found both the obsessions with  Nikola Tesla and St. Sebastian somewhat interesting but mostly inane  and ridiculous.    For me, the only redeeming thing was the information  on Nikola Tesla. I did some research on this inventor after finishing  the book and his story is a somewhat sad but believable tale.  Perhaps  it was this author's intent to open the eyes of his readers to the  injustices endured by Tesla and did so by exposing them within the  contents of this novel.	2001-03-01
US	53006770	R2ZIDMD6P2N10M	0679766669	38680732	The Final Judgment: A Novel (Random House Large Print)	Books	5	23	25	N	N	MY FINAL JUDGMENT -- IT'S A &quot;10&quot;	When I give a book a five star rating, it means on a scale of 1-10, I have rated it an 8, 9 or 10.  Believe me, very few books reach the &quot;10&quot; level but this one did.  It's a case where Richard North Patterson's writing prowess is clearly evident.<br />If you've followed any of his earlier books, you'll know that he likes to bring back characters that he's already introduced you to in previous novels.  The Final Judgment centers around one of my personal favorites, Caroline Masters, a character who put herself through law school and spent 15 years as a public defender before being appointed to a minor judgeship in the San Francisco Municipal Court.  This appointment leads to a judge's dream.  A high profile televised case is thrown in her lap where a well-known journalist is accused of killing an equally famous novelist.  By the end of this trial, which occurs in Patterson's Degree of Guilt, Masters is a celebrity.  Many offers pour in and Caroline chooses the one that would serve her ambitions and accepts a partnership in San Francisco's largest law firm.  With the strength of this law firm behind her, in Eyes of the Child she ends up defending another high profile defense attorney who is accused of murder, once again putting her in the public eye.<br />As Final Judgment opens, we meet Caroline once again as she is waiting for the phone call that could change her life -- an appointment to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals which would put her one step away from her true goal in life -- a Supreme Court nomination. Just when it seems that Caroline's life is finally on track, she is summoned back home to New Hampshire to defend her niece who is accused of murdering her boyfriend.  She hasn't been back there in over twenty years.  Prior to this book, Caroline's private life has been an enigma.  The only thing that the reader knows about her is that she is very fair, self-confident, intelligent and beautiful. We know virtually nothing about her personal life until it is finally revealed in this book.  Richard North Patterson takes us back twenty-three years to Martha's Vineyard where Caroline's trust in her family was once shattered.  In coming back to New Hampshire to defend her niece, it will be the first time she has seen her half sister and her father since then.  What follows is a trial that proves Caroline's ability beyond a shadow of a doubt but also shows us the compassionate side of this possible future appellate court judge.  This is an emotional story that starts out with Caroline finally realizing her dream of a high court judgeship yet could easily end with her finding herself empty handed as this trial becomes very public and her secrets could be revealed possibly ruining her chance to achieve her ultimate goal.<br />Of course, you have to read this book to find out if she ever makes it to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals.  I might even suggest reading all three of these books in order so you can appreciate, as much as I have, the development of this fascinating character. If you decide to do this, you have some excellent reading ahead of you.til it is finally revealed in this book.  Richard North Patterson takes us back twenty-three years to Martha's Vineyard where Caroline's trust in her family was once shattered.  In coming back to New Hampshire to defend her niece, it will be the first time she has seen her half sister and her father since then.  What follows is a trial that proves Caroline's ability beyond a shadow of a doubt but also shows us the compassionate side of this possible future appellate court judge.  This is an emotional story that starts out with Caroline finally realizing her dream of a high court judgeship yet could easily end with her finding herself empty handed as this trial becomes very public and her secrets could be revealed possibly ruining her chance to achieve her ultimate goal.<br />Of course, you have to read this book to find out if she ever makes it to the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals.  I might even suggest reading all three of these books in order so you can appreciate, as much as I have, the development of this fascinating character. If you decide to do this, you have some excellent reading ahead of you.	2001-02-27
US	53006770	R2V532SZ7I7Q6O	0679420401	999720718	The Grapes of Wrath (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	183	193	N	N	TRULY A &quot;MASTERPIECE&quot;	I don't know how anyone could read this book and not give it a five star rating.  The true test for me of a &quot;great book&quot; is one that stays with me -- one I can't stop thinking about long after I've finished.  I read this book for the second time in my life a month ago (first time was in high school many years ago), and I'm still haunted by the suffering endured by the Joad family.  The interesting thing is that Steinbeck wrote this book in 1939 at the height of the injustices being fraught upon the migrant workers in California.  I'm sure it wasn't popular then as it brought to the forefront the corruption of some powerful people in America.  It also spoke to the conscience of every American which eventually led to political reform in California.  After reading this book, I did some research into Steinbeck's motivation and learned that he was haunted by the plight of California's migrant workers to the point of obsession.  To fuel his anger, he would visit the migrant camps each day full of their dirt, disease and hungry people and then return home to write about those people responsible for these conditions -- people he considered to be murderers.<br />Steinbeck concentrated on the circumstances of one family, The Joads, tenant farmers in Oklahoma until they were forced out by the larger companies who wanted their land back.  With dreams of luscious grapes and peaches in abundance waiting to be picked, they loaded up their belongings and began their journey on Route 66 headed for Bakersfield, California.  They began their trip with a bevy of colorful characters led by Ma and Pa Joad.  It's amazing how much power Steinbeck gave to Ma Joad -- years before women had any right to a voice.  Unfortunately, just as the Joads were heading out, so were thousands upon thousands of other families.  This would ultimately lead to supply and demand.  There would be too many workers for the few jobs available and, consequently, people would be agreeing to work for peanuts just to be able to feed their families.<br />Steinbeck's writing is astounding as the unrest of the migrants builds to a crescendo and just as the dust has risen in Oklahoma, so will the voices of the poor migrant workers.  Steinbeck says, &quot;In the eyes of the hungry, there is a growing wrath.  In the souls of the people, the grapes of wrath are growing heavy.&quot;  It is just a matter of time before their wrath is unleashed and you can feel it in every page you turn.  He says that, &quot;Our people are good people;  our people are kind people.  Pray God some day kind people won't all be poor.  Pray God someday a kid can eat.&quot;  I don't know how you can read some of his words and not get teary eyed.  But sixty years have passed since the writing of this book and there are still migrant stories to be told and kids who have no food to eat yet sadly the world continues despite its injustices.<br />I won't kid you into believing that this is an easy book to read.  The first 150 pages are so slow going that I almost had to put it down.  But I kept on going just as the Joad's kept on going and I'm certainly glad I did.  We could all take a lesson from their quest for survival and their quest just to be able to eat the next day.  Their determination, in light of all the obstacles they had to face, is truly a lesson to be learned.  You feel a sense of accomplishment after reading a book like this -- I know I did.ts just to be able to feed their families.<br />Steinbeck's writing is astounding as the unrest of the migrants builds to a crescendo and just as the dust has risen in Oklahoma, so will the voices of the poor migrant workers.  Steinbeck says, &quot;In the eyes of the hungry, there is a growing wrath.  In the souls of the people, the grapes of wrath are growing heavy.&quot;  It is just a matter of time before their wrath is unleashed and you can feel it in every page you turn.  He says that, &quot;Our people are good people;  our people are kind people.  Pray God some day kind people won't all be poor.  Pray God someday a kid can eat.&quot;  I don't know how you can read some of his words and not get teary eyed.  But sixty years have passed since the writing of this book and there are still migrant stories to be told and kids who have no food to eat yet sadly the world continues despite its injustices.<br />I won't kid you into believing that this is an easy book to read.  The first 150 pages are so slow going that I almost had to put it down.  But I kept on going just as the Joad's kept on going and I'm certainly glad I did.  We could all take a lesson from their quest for survival and their quest just to be able to eat the next day.  Their determination, in light of all the obstacles they had to face, is truly a lesson to be learned.  You feel a sense of accomplishment after reading a book like this -- I know I did.	2001-02-26
US	53006770	R12TSIIAEGDO4Z	0786865504	186495277	World of Pies: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	AS EASY AS &quot;PIE&quot; AND JUST AS DELICIOUS	Life in Annette, Texas is as easy as pie in the early 60's and Karen Stolz adds just the right amount of sugar and spice to the mixture to make this an enjoyable read.  There are so many &quot;nice&quot; things about this book.  First of all, the cover is adorable and, if ever the expression &quot;you can't judge a book by its cover&quot; was decidedly false, this would be the case because you can judge this book of growing up in hometown America by its cover.  It's everything it claims to be.  The picture of the little girl jumping rope in front of her house is certainly indicative of what you'll find on the inside.  Secondly, the print on each page is blue adding an additional ingredient to the mix.  Thirdly, there are so many pies and dishes being cooked in these kitchens and, just when you're thinking that you'd like that recipe, it can usually be found on the next page.<br />This is the story of twelve year old Roxanne -- tomboy and lover of baseball.  When her father Carl declares, on behalf of the local Chamber of Commerce, that the town should have a pie fair, everyone gets involved trying to win a ribbon of their own.  You can just imagine the smells emanating from each of these kitchens as every woman goes about perfecting her craft.  Roxanne is forced to put her baseball glove and bat aside in an effort to assist her mother with the baking.  The story continues to evolve through the years with Roxanne's immediate family as well as her extended family which includes an aunt, uncle and cousin.  Over the course of the next twenty years or so, the family will endure its share of sudden deaths and illnesses while at the same time taking comfort in the births and pie fairs that come with life in a small town.  Roxanne's life will finally come full circle as she moves into the big city and realizes what we've all come to realize at some point in our lives -- there's no place like home.<br />This is the light reading kind of book you would enjoy while on vacation or one to pick up after reading something of heavier substance.  It can be a real pick me up on a gloomy day.  Read it with a cup of tea and a piece of pie -- that's probably what the author intended.or one to pick up after reading something of heavier substance.  It can be a real pick me up on a gloomy day.  Read it with a cup of tea and a piece of pie -- that's probably what the author intended.	2001-02-26
US	53006770	R2R9QSB64R2SIX	0679450440	483248967	Protect and Defend	Books	4	10	10	N	N	PROTECT AND DEFEND -- IF YOU HAVE THE &quot;MONEY&quot; BEHIND YOU	Richard North Patterson is one of my favorite authors in this genre and Degree of Guilt, Eyes of the Child and The Final Judgement will go down as three of my favorite books of all time.  Bearing all this in mind and knowing that Caroline Masters (who appeared in all three of the aforementioned books) was one of the featured main characters in his newest book, Protect and Defend, I anxiously awaited its arrival in the bookstores.  So you can imagine how hard it is for me not to give this book a five star rating.  I'm struggling to give it 4 stars and will do so only because Patterson is a talented author and, in my eyes, can't tell a bad story.  My feeling is that if you weren't sick of hearing about the abortion issue on every politician's lips before, you will certainly be sick of it after reading this book.  There were so many times during this reading that I said, &quot;all right already -- I get the picture.&quot;  Don't get me wrong -- I am making no political statement here pro or con.  This book deftly gives you both sides of the issue brilliantly and with duly noted extensive research on the part of the author.  I just felt there were at least 200 unnecessary pages in this 549 page book and, after awhile, I felt I was being lectured.<br />The book begins with Kerry Kilcannon's inauguration, a character already featured in previous RNP books.  By the slimmest of margins (sound familiar), he has finally been elected President of the United States.  Of course, his excitement of the day is short-lived as the present Chief Justice of the U.S. Supreme Court has a sudden stroke and dies at the ceremony leaving an opening that President Kilcannon must now fill.  He nominates Caroline Masters, a judge of the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in San Francisco.  Fans of Patterson, who have already read The Final Judgement, will know that her rise to the Circuit Court was no easy task and also that she has some secrets in her past that could come to light with the scrutinizing that the nominating committee will oversee.  This nomination is an important one because it cold swing the vote in an already closely divided Supreme Court.  The one thing in her favor is that she has never come up against any abortion issues so her views are her own -- PRIVATE -- or is there such a word in politics?  Just as her nomination is coming to the forefront, Sarah Dash, an ex law clerk of Masters, has agreed to take on the case of a 15 year old girl who wants a late term abortion but her parents won't allow it for religious, moral and political reasons.  If Caroline Masters wasn't involved in a case having to do with abortion before, she will be in the thick of it right now.<br />This book actually made me sick of politics and sick of the hypocrisy of the whole thing.  It is full of characters who are spouting one belief yet are doing something totally against their beliefs in the background -- come to think of it, this book could have been non-fiction.  The one thing that I did come away with after reading this book was how very important these Supreme Court nominations really are and how the balance of power can shift by just one appointment.  Unfortunately, it also showed me the power behind some of the lobbyists who use politicians as puppets.  The moral of this story is -- MONEY TALKS -- a very sad moral to this reader.izing that the nominating committee will oversee.  This nomination is an important one because it cold swing the vote in an already closely divided Supreme Court.  The one thing in her favor is that she has never come up against any abortion issues so her views are her own -- PRIVATE -- or is there such a word in politics?  Just as her nomination is coming to the forefront, Sarah Dash, an ex law clerk of Masters, has agreed to take on the case of a 15 year old girl who wants a late term abortion but her parents won't allow it for religious, moral and political reasons.  If Caroline Masters wasn't involved in a case having to do with abortion before, she will be in the thick of it right now.<br />This book actually made me sick of politics and sick of the hypocrisy of the whole thing.  It is full of characters who are spouting one belief yet are doing something totally against their beliefs in the background -- come to think of it, this book could have been non-fiction.  The one thing that I did come away with after reading this book was how very important these Supreme Court nominations really are and how the balance of power can shift by just one appointment.  Unfortunately, it also showed me the power behind some of the lobbyists who use politicians as puppets.  The moral of this story is -- MONEY TALKS -- a very sad moral to this reader.	2001-02-26
US	53006770	R18A6GULRN80WU	034540100X	274569076	Gangster	Books	5	15	18	N	N	GANGSTER -- &quot;TO DIE FOR&quot;	I have already proclaimed myself to be a huge Carcaterra fan in previous Amazon reviews of his two other books, Sleepers and Apaches.  I could not wait to get my hands on this one and, once again, was not disappointed by this &quot;master of all storytelling.&quot;  In an effort to be objective, I tried to imagine that it was written by someone else just to see if I would feel the same way about it.  As hard as I tried, reminders of Carcaterra's writing style kept breaking through and those &quot;comfort&quot; recollections of things nostalgic to me came to the surface.  I have yet to read one of his books where he doesn't mention The Yankees, St. Jude, The Count of Monte Cristo and playing stoopball.  You've got to love this guy.<br />In this book, Carcaterra brings us back, once again, to the streets of Manhattan -- although instead of hanging out in Hell's Kitchen of &quot;Sleepers&quot; fame, we are in the Chelsea section down on 28th Street and Broadway.  The story begins with Paolini Vestieri fleeing his homeland of Italy so his soon to be born son won't be influenced by the arm of the MAFIA.  Little does he know that this arm is longer than he thinks and it has already reached out to America.  It will eventually grab his son Angelo who will end up becoming one of New York's biggest crime bosses.  Lorenzo Carcaterra has a knack for introducing you and endearing you to his criminals when they are young boys.  By the time they become grown men, you have so much empathy for them, having witnessed their growing up without mothers and most times without money, that you tend to look the other way when they're shooting people dead without a second glance.  He also uses the REVENGE theme in each of his books and this one is no exception.  When Angelo Vestieri is nine years old, he comes under the guiding hand of two very colorful crime lords, Angus McQueen and Ida The Goose, performing small jobs for them along with his friend Pudge.  Together, he and Pudge form an alliance and their loyalty to each other will only be broken if one of them dies.  Pudge is the shooter and Angelo is the conscience and the thinker.  It isn't until the thing that Angelo holds most dear is taken away from him that he becomes the most ruthless gangster of them all.  This is where REVENGE will be &quot;sweet&quot;.<br />The story is told through the eyes of a narrator, Gabe, who, as a young foster child, was taken under Angelo's and Pudge's wing to hopefully pick up where Angelo and Pudge will eventually leave off when they are too old to run the &quot;family&quot;.  Gabe is at Angelo's bedside as Angelo, now an old man, is finally succumbing to the ravages of the hard and sometimes brutal life he has led.  He is joined at the bedside by Mary -- someone Gabe has never met yet someone who loved Angelo as much as he.  Between the two of them, all the blanks of Angelo's life are filled in as we finally come to realize what drove Angelo to do all he has done.  They both will walk away from this experience as changed people as truths and secrets are finally revealed.<br />I love it when I learn something in a book.  While this may never be a question on the millionaire show, I learned what the letters MAFIA stand for -- Morte Alla Francese in Italia -- Death to the French in Italy.  Apparently, many many years ago, the French had come into Italy and taken land belonging to the Italians.  In his book, Carcaterra says, &quot;No gangster is ever happy when he's at peace.  The main reason he's in the business is to eliminate his enemies.&quot;  There are plenty of &quot;survivors&quot; in this book.  While the TV show claims that the survivors will &quot;outwit, outplay and outlast&quot; each other, the survivors of Carcaterra's GANGSTER will &quot;outgun, outnumber and outrun&quot; anyone who gets in their way.  For me, this author has given me another few days of pure reading enjoyment.  In his book, he says &quot;To trust someone is to take a risk.&quot;  Ifyou trust my reviews, you will read this book -- you won't be risking anything.you trust my reviews, you will read this book -- you won't be risking anything.	2001-02-25
US	53006770	R1FSF03QTZPRXA	0374110131	697393202	Being Dead: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	JIM CRACE'S TAKE ON &quot;BEING DEAD&quot;	At first glance, one would think this book is a mystery. Two bodies found dead in the dunes of Baritone Bay. That assumption could not be further from the truth. While there is a murder and there is a murderer, the killer will not be mentioned again once he has committed his crime. Because this book is not about their death and who did it -- it is more about death itself and all the diminutive details of the actual physical death of these two people and the ultimate decay of their bodies. Sound gruesome?? Crace makes it anything but.<br />The subject matter -- death in its crudest form or most beautiful form (however you choose to look at it) may not be for everyone but it is a book that has provoked me to think more on this topic than I would have before. The story follows the death and life (in that order) of two married zoologists who are found partially clothed and beaten in the dunes of Baritone Bay. They are middle aged and the thing that Crace notes here, and is bothered by, is that they were robbed of a &quot;good death&quot;. A death where you age together, get sick and die a so-called &quot;normal&quot; death. By being in the wrong place at the wrong time, they were victims of a random act of violence. Because their death is out in the open and their bodies are not found for six days, the reader becomes privy to the eventual decomposition complete with all those insects and birds and sealife that aid in the process of returning these once lively forms to the origin of whence they came. It is not pretty but, in a sense, Crace somehow makes this beautiful.<br />There is so much more to this story as the author jumps back and forth between their life and their death. He explains how they met, introduces us to their grown daughter Syl and tells the events that led them to the dunes that day -- the scene where they first made love many, many years ago. It is more than ironic, in light of their profession as zoologists, that they would end up in a situation where each of them would have delighted in exploring the aftereffects of their own demise.<br />There is an incredible amount of food for thought in this book. The author explains that &quot;at least their deaths coincided -- there can be nothing lonelier than to outlive someone you are used to loving.&quot; By returning to the dunes in an effort to recapture some of their youth, Joseph and Celice paid a heavy price for their nostalgia.e each of them would have delighted in exploring the aftereffects of their own demise.<br />There is an incredible amount of food for thought in this book. The author explains that &quot;at least their deaths coincided -- there can be nothing lonelier than to outlive someone you are used to loving.&quot; By returning to the dunes in an effort to recapture some of their youth, Joseph and Celice paid a heavy price for their nostalgia.	2000-11-20
US	53006770	R156N6MV0YELRG	0312955006	396820452	The Concrete Blonde (Harry Bosch)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	THE BEST ONE YET!!!	This, the third book in Michael Connelly's Harry Bosch series, is without a doubt my favorite so far.  Having met and fell in love with Harry in Connelly's first book, The Black Echo, I am always thrilled to begin those first few pages -- it's like meeting up with an old friend you haven't seen for awhile.  This old friend is a Vietnam vet still traumatized by going through enemy tunnels while on duty as a tunnel rat in &quot;Nam&quot;.  Now he's an LAPD homicide detective so he's still being traumatized on a daily basis.<br />This thriller finds Harry not only on the streets solving crimes but also in the courtroom defending himself in a civil suit brought by the widow of a serial killer known as &quot;The Dollmaker&quot;.  She feels that her &quot;serial killer&quot; husband's civil rights were denied when Harry shot him to death without cause.  At the time, Harry thought the alleged perpetrator was reaching for a weapon -- it was later revealed that he was just reaching for his toupee.  This &quot;dollmaker&quot; nickname came about because the killer had a practice of putting makeup on his victims, making them look like painted up dolls.  Now, years later, this widow is painting Bosch out to be a vigilante with a dubious past of his own hiding behind an LAPD badge and shooting people without reason.  Bosch feels justified in killing the Dollmaker four years ago but, when a copy cat body shows up and associated letters resembling those that the Dollmaker used to send begin to appear, even Harry has his doubts.  The courtroom scenes are compelling and the new copycat investigation is more than routine.<br />If you're into the mystery/thriller genre and want to sink your teeth into a series with a great protagonist and even greater writing and storylines, try Connelly's series featuring Harry &quot;Hieronymus&quot; Bosch.  To find out what really makes Harry tick and to find out where he got the ridiculous name of Hieronymus, you should read the books in order starting with the first one, The Black Echo, continuing on to The Black Ice and then rewarding your efforts with this one, my personal favorite, The Concrete Blonde.ting with the first one, The Black Echo, continuing on to The Black Ice and then rewarding your efforts with this one, my personal favorite, The Concrete Blonde.	2000-11-20
US	53006770	R2ZUFBAXTGRN9P	0871136791	11590154	Cold Mountain	Books	2	4	11	N	N	BORED ME TO DEATH!!!!!	Believe me when I say that I wanted to &quot;love&quot; this book as much as some of the other reviewers here.  I've had it sitting on my shelf for quite some time and this past week I finally gave it the nod and began my journey along with Inman, a wounded Confederate soldier returning by foot to his beloved Cold Mountain.<br />As we travel with Inman, the trek becomes grueling and so does the book.  I didn't realize when he left the hospital that he was actually leaving without the Army's blessing so thus his journey becomes one of not only trying to get home but of hiding out from other soldiers who might perhaps view his journey as cowardly.  Frazier gives the reader a poor feeling of time so it's hard to figure out how long he's been travelling.  Along the way, he meets an assortment of seedy characters who think nothing of shooting someone without giving it a second thought.  He also meets some needy people -- people he can help and who, in turn, can help him.  He has one goal in mind throughout this entire expedition -- to not only get home but to return to the woman who is hopefully waiting for him on Cold Mountain.<br />This woman is Ada, born and raised in Charleston but relocated to the Blue Ridge Mountains by her father, a preacher seeking better surroundings for health reasons.  As the story unfolds, Ada is on her own journey trying to manage a farm with the limited knowledge she possesses.  Along comes Ruby, a young woman left alone by her drunken father.  Together they forge a friendship that works for both of them.  Ruby is quite adept at survival and gets Ada on her feet and working towards making the farm a manageable operation.<br />You will travel back and forth from chapter to chapter experiencing first Inman's travails and then Ada's and back again to Inman.  I found the chapters concerning Ada and Ruby to be much more enjoyable.<br />I think the main problem I had with this book, aside from the fact that it put me to sleep, was the fact that Ada and Inman  hardly had much of a relationship before he left for the war.  Since it is her image that keeps him going, I found this implausible.  Perhaps if there had been a wonderful love story between them that was interrupted by the war, I would have been pushing Inman along myself in his quest to get back home to his beloved Ada.  Since this relationship was never even developed by Frazier, I couldn't root for their reunion as much as I would have liked to.  For all I knew, she wouldn't even know who he was by the time he got home.<br />The bottom line is that this just isn't my kind of book.  It won the National Book Award so who am I not to like it.  For that matter, I didn't care for In The Fall by Jeffrey Lent and Plainsong by Kent Haruf -- two other slow moving stories. If you like that kind of book and like the two books I've just mentioned, then you'll probably like Cold Mountain.  Otherwise, I'd just pass and move on to something else.  I wish I had.da and Inman  hardly had much of a relationship before he left for the war.  Since it is her image that keeps him going, I found this implausible.  Perhaps if there had been a wonderful love story between them that was interrupted by the war, I would have been pushing Inman along myself in his quest to get back home to his beloved Ada.  Since this relationship was never even developed by Frazier, I couldn't root for their reunion as much as I would have liked to.  For all I knew, she wouldn't even know who he was by the time he got home.<br />The bottom line is that this just isn't my kind of book.  It won the National Book Award so who am I not to like it.  For that matter, I didn't care for In The Fall by Jeffrey Lent and Plainsong by Kent Haruf -- two other slow moving stories. If you like that kind of book and like the two books I've just mentioned, then you'll probably like Cold Mountain.  Otherwise, I'd just pass and move on to something else.  I wish I had.	2000-11-19
US	53006770	R2G10J7V0XFGMZ	0688140483	278558333	The Legend of Bagger Vance: A Novel of Golf and the Game of Life	Books	4	23	26	N	N	WHO IS BAGGER VANCE?  YOU DECIDE!!!	I'm a sucker for wanting to read a book before seeing the movie and actually finished this one a few hours before I left for the theater.  What I particularly enjoyed in my reading was being able to picture Matt Damon and Will Smith in the starring roles.  For the first time ever, though, I enjoyed the movie more than the book.  In reading through a number of Amazon reviews, I note that most of the 5 star reviews are given by those who love the game of golf even if it doesn't love them at times.<br />I am not a golfer so I found all the paragraphs devoted to the perfect swing, the right club and every other minute nuance of golf to be quite boring and tedious.  I did, however, enjoy the lessons on life taught by Bagger Vance to anyone who would listen.<br />The overall story is good.  In order to save Krewe Island Golf Club from going under during the depression, the owner comes up with the wonderful idea of having a first class golf match between professional golfers Bobby Jones and Walter Hagen.  Unfortunately, the founding fathers of this great Southern city of Savannah will not support it unless one of their own golfers gets to compete.  They choose Rannulph Junah, who once was a great golfer in his own right -- before he went off to fight in the war and returned a troubled man who likes to drink heavily.  He initially refuses to compete but Bagger Vance convinces him otherwise.  He helps Rannulph to reconnect with his &quot;authentic swing&quot; -- the swing that is ours alone -- the swing that each person is born with.  At this point I'm thinking that every golfer out there is loving this.  But Bagger Vance's message is farther reaching than just finding your authentic swing.  While you're there, find your authentic self -- the one you were born with before you were deluded by life's experiences.<br />Throughout the book, you wonder if Bagger Vance is real or someone just sent here to help Junah through the match.  Junah himself, in referring to Bagger, says in the book that &quot;he was unable to assimilate his (Bagger's) wisdom or any wisdom.  Nothing he said worked, then or later, except one single truth:  the fact of his existance and of his love.  That is all I needed then and all I will every need.&quot;<br />Isn't this all any one person needs in life?  And it is there for the taking.  That is the message of Bagger Vance or whatever higher power you deem him to be.  Do yourself a favor after reading this book -- go see the movie to continue your fascination with this character and your connection to a higher being.n the book that &quot;he was unable to assimilate his (Bagger's) wisdom or any wisdom.  Nothing he said worked, then or later, except one single truth:  the fact of his existance and of his love.  That is all I needed then and all I will every need.&quot;<br />Isn't this all any one person needs in life?  And it is there for the taking.  That is the message of Bagger Vance or whatever higher power you deem him to be.  Do yourself a favor after reading this book -- go see the movie to continue your fascination with this character and your connection to a higher being.	2000-11-19
US	53006770	R14TXOGR83UTIU	0618045678	177300630	Wild Decembers	Books	3	20	27	N	N	THE NOT SO &quot;WILD&quot; DECEMBERS	I usually love to read about books set in Ireland where the countryside is always greener than green and the dampness wetter than wet.  So it was this love that inspired me to read my first Edna O'Brien novel.  Set in Western Ireland in the small town of Cloontha, the story follows the quest for land and the acknowledgement of who is the rightful owner. This is an age old problem passed down through generations and, as O'Brien writes, &quot;fields mean more than fields, more than life and more than death too.&quot;  But she also writes that &quot;the enemy came in the night but the enemy can come at any hour....because the enemy is ALWAYS THERE.&quot;<br />This is how the story begins with the arrival of the enemy -- a brick red tractor that has shown up on the fields, stuck as it was in the mud, with a driver aboard -- one Michael Bugler, noted to be a fine speciman of a man.  Is it the tractor who is the enemy or the passenger?  Bugler has come to claim land that he has recently inherited.  There is one problem though -- part of this land is on what Joseph Brennan considers to be &quot;his mountain&quot;.  The second problem is that Joseph Brennan has a beautiful sister named Breege who has become giddy over the arrival of the new tractor and its driver.  O'Brien writes that &quot;the tractor was music to her ears and a gall to her brother's.&quot;<br />What follows is a fight for land, a fight for love and a struggle to keep one's sanity when all else around you has gone haywire.<br />Edna O'Brien writes a story laced with impending doom.  You know something will happen....you just don't know how bad it will be.  As she tells us, &quot;one mad minute stretches into a lifetime.&quot;  That quote is so true because you can be a model citizen for 364 days of the year and do something bad on that 365th day and the goodness is forgotten and all that remains is that one bad day.<br />As much as I like stories set in Ireland, this one dragged for me.  I felt no kinship to the characters and, while I understood their motivations, I felt no empathy toward them.  Yes, &quot;the warring sons of warring sons are sent to repossess ground gone forever&quot; and I'm sure love triangles and tragedy are part of the scenario.  I just didn't walk away from this reading experience with any sense of satisfaction in having read this book.  This is just my humble opinion and I have rated this book solely based on my enjoyment factor...certainly no indication of the author's ability as a writer.to the characters and, while I understood their motivations, I felt no empathy toward them.  Yes, &quot;the warring sons of warring sons are sent to repossess ground gone forever&quot; and I'm sure love triangles and tragedy are part of the scenario.  I just didn't walk away from this reading experience with any sense of satisfaction in having read this book.  This is just my humble opinion and I have rated this book solely based on my enjoyment factor...certainly no indication of the author's ability as a writer.	2000-11-19
US	53006770	R13PY00AGH5LLO	0553106341	334109426	Dust to Dust	Books	5	7	7	N	N	MYSTERY WRITERS SHOULD TAKE LESSONS FROM TAMI HOAG	This is the sixth book I have read by Tami Hoag and I can honestly say that she has never disappointed me.  While others in this genre are known to give away endings before the middle of the book and make sure that their storylines are current with what other more popular writers are doing, Hoag always stands above all others in plot twists and unique scenarios.  If she isn't already involved in teaching writing classes, she should be.<br />In this episode, some of the characters we first met in Ashes to Ashes return to solve the mystery of who killed Andy Fallon -- an Internal Affairs cop.  He is found hanging in his apartment with the words &quot;I'm Sorry&quot; written on the mirror.  To complicate matters even more, Andy is gay and is the son of Iron Mike Fallon, a former cop who is now disabled and is still well-respected by the force.  Sam Kovaks and his partner Nikki Liska are in charge of the case which, for all intents and purposes, is being deemed a suicide or accident.  Sam and Nikki, however, have their doubts.<br />While everyone else is willing to certify this as an accident, the two homicide detectives won't give up.  Hoag is noted for writing about main characters who are tenacious in spite of what the opposing factions are throwing their way.  In this book, they are ordered to leave this one alone, agree that it was an accident and move on.  You know right away that this isn't going to happen.  There are a number of other characters who immediately become suspects in the reader's eyes and just when you've nailed it down, Hoag throws you another bone.<br />There are other background stories to contend with which will keep the reader turning the pages.  What were the true circumstances surrounding Iron Mike's disability?  Did Andy's being gay have anything to do with his death?  Does anyone have any respect for Internal Affairs cops?<br />As with all of Hoag's other books, I found this one riveting.  I also very much enjoy the location of Minnesota as the setting.  I don't live there but I appreciate the trips that the characters take to the Mall of America as well as the colder than cold descriptions of the Minnesota winters.  We've now had Ashes to Ashes and Dust to Dust.  What's next for us Hoag fans?the setting.  I don't live there but I appreciate the trips that the characters take to the Mall of America as well as the colder than cold descriptions of the Minnesota winters.  We've now had Ashes to Ashes and Dust to Dust.  What's next for us Hoag fans?	2000-11-19
US	53006770	R1H8X51D48ZJSQ	0393046974	498826779	House of Sand and Fog	Books	5	48	50	N	N	HOUSE OF &quot;DOOM &amp; GLOOM&quot;	This was the first book I ever read by this author and it came highly recommended by so many people.  For the first 25 pages, I wasn't at all sure that it was going to be for me but, as I kept reading, I became enmeshed in one of the best books I've read this year.  It is totally unlike anything I have ever read before.  Told in the first person through the eyes of the two main characters, it makes it so easy to truly understand not only their thoughts but their real motivations.  I often wonder what makes some characters tick -- in this book you won't have to wonder as Dubus masterfully explains in great detail what's behind each of these character's inner thoughts and motions.<br />This is an incredible story revolving around a house and the house's rightful owner.  Colonel Behrani was at the top of the Iranian army when the government was overthrown and his family was forced to leave Iran and seek refuge in America.  You read, with tears in your eyes, as this once powerful man tries to achieve the American dream for his family.  He takes on menial jobs in an effort to save enough money for a house.<br />Kathy Nicolo, a recovering alcoholic and addict, has a house.  She also finds the act of opening mail from the County Tax Collector to be mundane.  Because of her negligence in not opening her mail, her house is sold at public auction.  Now the fight for the rightful owner of this property begins.  A third person enters the scenario.  His name is Lester and he is a married cop.  You know the saying, &quot;two's company, three's a crowd&quot;.  Well, it couldn't be more true than in this book.<br />The circumstances of this house's ownership spiral out of control.  At times I couldn't believe what I was reading.  Your sympathies may run the gamut from one character to the next but one thing is for sure -- you will definitely walk away from this reading experience and NEVER, NEVER forget this book.  It is truly a masterpiece.	2000-11-16
US	53006770	R1NM3WTJZ7S1C5	0060191929	632958433	The Saving Graces: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	MY BEST READ OF THE &quot;SUMMER OF 2000&quot;	The cover of this book (two beach chairs in the sand) is screaming for this to be read at the beach.  Since I am known to definitely &quot;judge a book by its cover&quot;, I indeed bought it to read on the beach.  With the sand at my feet and the sound of waves crashing against the shore, I began a journey with four women who became my friends that summer.  The only unfortunate thing is that they are fictional, but who cares -- they delivered what I hoped for -- a &quot;great&quot; beach read.<br />As the story goes, four women form a woman's group and meet every other Thursday at someone's house or in a restaurant, if the person whose turn it is decides that they don't want to cook.  Right away I'm wondering how I can get myself invited to join them.  They call themselves The Saving Graces and meet over the course of 10 years trading secrets, telling each other their innermost thoughts and being there for emotional support when needed.  Even the way they derive their name is adorable -- they hit and saved a dog name Grace -- thus the Saving Graces.<br />Rudy, the beautiful one, is married to the possessive and also very good-looking Curtis.  Emma, a red haired beauty, is single and always in search of love.  Lee, petite and very pretty, is the organized one and the one they all consider to be the &quot;normal&quot; one.  Isabel, the oldest of the group by eight years, is married to Gary and they have a teenage son Terry.  Told through the eyes of each of these individual characters, chapter by chapter their story unfolds.  You will laugh with them, cry with them, agonize over little things with them and go through some major hurdles with them.  You can relate to each of their stories and will probably read and hear some things you've already discussed with your own girlfriends.  You even get to go to Cape Hatteras to a house called Neap Tide where the graces go to get away once a year.  They have &quot;chosen&quot; each other as friends so the ties that bind are strong.<br />I don't think you can finish this book without wishing you had your own &quot;saving graces&quot; to turn to in times of need.  It makes your own friendships become more special and makes some of your own problems become more recognizable and perhaps more trivial as you read, with a lump in your throat, what one of the graces goes through.  Although I chose to read this in the summer, this book will work in any season and in any location.  I still smile everytime I think about it.  It is truly a &quot;book for all seasons&quot;.rong.<br />I don't think you can finish this book without wishing you had your own &quot;saving graces&quot; to turn to in times of need.  It makes your own friendships become more special and makes some of your own problems become more recognizable and perhaps more trivial as you read, with a lump in your throat, what one of the graces goes through.  Although I chose to read this in the summer, this book will work in any season and in any location.  I still smile everytime I think about it.  It is truly a &quot;book for all seasons&quot;.	2000-11-16
US	53006770	R1ES3VPESPWNLP	0399146253	109258524	The Last Precinct (A Scarpetta Novel)	Books	3	27	27	N	N	ENOUGH OF THE &quot;WEREWOLF&quot; ALREADY	It is with mixed feelings that I write a review of a Patricia Cornwell book and give it less than a stellar rating.  Unfortunately, in good conscience, I can't give this more than 3 stars.  I even feel I'm being generous with that.  The only reason it rates the 3 stars is that I'm giving a star to each of the main characters -- Kay, Lucy and Marino -- for showing up on these pages.<br />This is the 11th book in the Kay Scarpetta series and, as an avid fan, I wait patiently for the newest arrival (which I have already preordered at Amazon of course).  The day it is delivered, I put everything aside and delve right in.  So, when I say I'm disappointed, this is truly coming from the heart.<br />This is an absolute sequel to Black Notice and thus continues the storyline of Jean-Baptiste Chandonne, better known as Le Loup-Garou -- the &quot;werewolf&quot;.  In order to make this a stand alone book and for the benefit of those readers who haven't read Black Notice, Cornwell repeats everything we've already read in the previous book.  This is fine and necessary for those who haven't read Black Notice.  For those true fans who have already read this book, these constant reminders become redundant.  I didn't like the werewolf storyline in Black Notice so I liked it even less as it continued in The Last Precinct.  This book finds Kay recovering from wounds she suffered at the hands of Le Loup Garou, being analyzed to death by her friend and psychoanalyst Anna (150 pages of this), being accused of a crime that she didn't commit and spending the entire book being paranoid as to whom she can really trust.  While I enjoy getting to understand Kay's inner psyche a little better, enough was enough after 75 pages of it.<br />I made the mistake of reading this book one morning while eating breakfast.  It didn't make for a great meal to be reading about the werewolf shedding all his fine blonde hairs all over the place while I was eating my bagel.  YUK.  I, for one, have had enough of Le Loup Garou but, unfortunately, it is evident in the end of this book that this story will be continuing in Cornwell's next book.<br />I won't give up on my three favorite characters yet but I implore Cornwell to give her true fans a break and get back to the stories that made these books become bestsellers in the first place.  By the time I read the last page, I was ready to head for The Last Precinct -- the place Cornwell describes as where you go when there is nowhere else to go -- or my own description -- where you go when you want to get away from this book.Le Loup Garou but, unfortunately, it is evident in the end of this book that this story will be continuing in Cornwell's next book.<br />I won't give up on my three favorite characters yet but I implore Cornwell to give her true fans a break and get back to the stories that made these books become bestsellers in the first place.  By the time I read the last page, I was ready to head for The Last Precinct -- the place Cornwell describes as where you go when there is nowhere else to go -- or my own description -- where you go when you want to get away from this book.	2000-11-16
US	53006770	R1AEOIMUX7BHUC	080506107X	998359614	The Prosecution: A Legal Thriller	Books	5	3	4	N	N	D. W. BUFFA -- A GREAT LEGAL MIND	If you like legal thrillers set in courtrooms, then who better to read than an author who has been a defense attorney for ten years.  Buffa isn't your run-of-the-mill attorney turned author.  His characters are a step above the rest and his storylines keep you guessing.  While reading his books, you are as unsure of a guilty/not guilty verdict as are the attorneys prosecuting and defending the cases.<br />In this book, Joe Antonelli, who was a defense attorney in Buffa's first novel &quot;The Defense&quot;, resurfaces -- this time as a prosecuting attorney.  Those of us who left Joe off, after reading The Defense, weren't sure if he would ever return to practicing law.  He was so disenchanted by the events surrounding his last case, that he went into retirement.  Fortunately for the reader, he is convinced to reenter the courtroom by another mentor and friend, Judge Horace Woolner.  Since this case is so close to home for the Portland D.A.'s office, Antonelli is brought in as a special prosecutor.  It turns out that Woolner has received information that could implicate the city's deputy district attorney in his own wife's death.  Up until the verdict is given by the jury, you're not sure which way it's going to go.  Of course, you'll have to read the book to witness one of the best legal minds out there today.<br />And, just when you think that this one case may just put Joe over the edge again, he is asked to defend Horace's wife who has now been arrested in connection with the death of a member of a prominent Portland family, who also happens to be her &quot;good&quot; friend.<br />Buffa gives us two mysteries in one in The Prosecution.  I read his first book The Defense a few years ago and was immediately drawn to the main character Joe Antonelli.  He's ruthless yet sensitive, educated but not overbearing and very, very vulnerable at this point in his life.  I look forward to entering the courtroom once again with Joe Antonelli in the future.  If I could give him one piece of advice, after reading these two books, it would be to pick better mentors and friends!!!m one piece of advice, after reading these two books, it would be to pick better mentors and friends!!!	2000-10-26
US	53006770	R3OAXW0FDB6953	0805053077	944702418	The Defense	Books	4	10	12	N	N	FOR THE DEFENSE -- JOE ANTONELLI	This is the first book by D. W. Buffa, an Oregon defense attorney turned author.  It reads so well for a first novel, that you just know that Buffa is going to be around for quite a while.<br />The best part of this book is the main character Joe Antonelli.  Like Buffa, he's a defense attorney.  One thing that separates him from most other defense attorneys, however, is the fact that he's never lost a case and he's proud of passing this information on to anyone interested.  I usually find this lack of humility in characters to be less than endearing but, for some reason, I think it adds to Antonelli's overall makeup.  As is usual with most legal thrillers, there are enough twists and turns to give you a stiff neck.  Somehow though, Buffa keep you guessing.<br />This case involves a less than desirable subject matter as Joe defends Johnny Morel, who is accused of raping his 12 year old stepdaughter.  He has agreed to represent Morel at the request of his mentor, Judge Leopold Rifkin.  The events surrounding this case will cause disastrous ramifications years down the road for all involved.  The saying &quot;what goes around, comes around&quot; is definitely evidenced in the end of the book.  Unfortunately, some innocent people will be hurt, an attorney will be left disenchanted and the reader will anxiously await the return of Joe Antonelli in Buffa's sequel, The Prosecution.<br />I do recommend reading these books in order just to get a better idea of what really makes Antonelli tick -- a character greatly admired by this reader.	2000-10-26
US	53006770	R1WMJRDYYTSWHV	0060199652	822422067	Prodigal Summer	Books	5	255	267	N	N	THE BEAUTY OF &quot;NATURE&quot; BY KINGSOLVER	If you ever wanted to get a greater appreciation of nature, predators and their prey, and survival of the fittest, then you'll probably really enjoy Kingsolver's latest book.  I was totally in awe of her knowledge, most of which I'm sure did not come just through research.  The jacket cover mentions that she earned a graduate degree in biology before becoming a full-time author.  This is quite evident throughout and it becomes obvious to the reader that this is a labor of love on her part.  Let's put it this way -- if ever I was a contestant on the millionaire show and a biology question came up, I'd want Barbara Kingsolver as my &quot;phone a friend.&quot;<br />What is a prodigal summer?  The author describes it as the &quot;season of extravagant procreation&quot; and, from that point, the story begins.  This procreation will be experienced by all different forms of life found within these pages.<br />Kingsolver, who so beautifully told her Poisonwood Bible story through the eyes of the four daughters and their mother, uses this same writing style once again in Prodigal Summer.  This time though, the chapters aren't headed with the characters' names but instead are indicated by their particular field of interest.<br />The Predators section describes Deanna Wolfe, working for the forest service and living by herself in an isolated cabin.  She has also penned a thesis on coyotes and it's her dream to come across this predator in her small world in the Appalachian Mountains.<br />Moth Love is devoted to Lusa Landowski, a young, beautiful city girl who has studied entomology and is now a bug expert and lover.  She also inherits a farm and has to decide whether to stay in Zebulon Valley and commit to that lifestyle or return to Lexington, Kentucky.<br />Old Chestnuts explores the relationship between Garnett Walker, an 80 year old widow, and his love affair with the chestnut tree.  During his lifetime, he is trying to recreate this almost extinct tree type within his Zebulon Valley region.  Added to this mission is his love/hate relationship with his neighbor, 75 year old Nannie Rawley, and owner of an organic apple orchard.<br />Midway through the book, the connections between these individuals begin to surface as you know they would.  Just as subtly, the connections between the underlying characters and their particular love of nature is explored.  How to poison things without using poison?  How predation is a sacrament?  How birds never doubt their place at the center of the universe?  How moths speak to each other via scent?  How every quiet step is thunder to beetle life underfoot?  These are just a fraction of the questions Kingsolver poses -- all the answers lie within these pages.<br />Barbara Kingsolver once again leaves the reader with food for thought.  I guarantee that, after reading this book, you will never look at a moth the same way as you did before and probably won't kill another spider.  For as she explains, &quot;every choice is a world made new for the chosen.&quot;  So if you, as the predator, choose not to kill a lesser life form, there begins a new life for that &quot;prey&quot; or that chosen species.<br />Since I would never categorize myself as someone who is &quot;into nature&quot;, on an enjoyment scale I would only have rated this book with four stars.  The fact that it is so well-written, with fabulous character development, well-researched content, and extraordinary subject knowledge by the author, it positively deserves a five star rating.bulon Valley region.  Added to this mission is his love/hate relationship with his neighbor, 75 year old Nannie Rawley, and owner of an organic apple orchard.<br />Midway through the book, the connections between these individuals begin to surface as you know they would.  Just as subtly, the connections between the underlying characters and their particular love of nature is explored.  How to poison things without using poison?  How predation is a sacrament?  How birds never doubt their place at the center of the universe?  How moths speak to each other via scent?  How every quiet step is thunder to beetle life underfoot?  These are just a fraction of the questions Kingsolver poses -- all the answers lie within these pages.<br />Barbara Kingsolver once again leaves the reader with food for thought.  I guarantee that, after reading this book, you will never look at a moth the same way as you did before and probably won't kill another spider.  For as she explains, &quot;every choice is a world made new for the chosen.&quot;  So if you, as the predator, choose not to kill a lesser life form, there begins a new life for that &quot;prey&quot; or that chosen species.<br />Since I would never categorize myself as someone who is &quot;into nature&quot;, on an enjoyment scale I would only have rated this book with four stars.  The fact that it is so well-written, with fabulous character development, well-researched content, and extraordinary subject knowledge by the author, it positively deserves a five star rating.	2000-10-25
US	53006770	R27SXPWYVA3DKZ	0151004552	112190852	Redemption	Books	3	1	1	N	N	NOT VERY REDEEMING	I must have been having a nostalgic moment, trying to recapture the enjoyment I felt reading The Immigrants back in the 70's, when I purchased Howard Fast's latest book Redemption.  It was NO Immigrants and I wasn't able to capture much enjoyment.  The one redeeming thing about Redemption is that it's a quick read.<br />Ike Goldman is a 78 year old widow who was once a law professor at Columbia University.  Riding home one night from an engagement, he sees a young woman who he believes is getting ready to jump off the George Washington Bridge.  He, of course, convinces her not to jump and, as a result, feels responsible for her.  She is Elizabeth Hopper, ex-wife of wealthy investment executive William Sedgwick Hopper.  When he is found dead in his office, all fingers are pointed at Elizabeth.  By this time, Ike has fallen for 45 year old Elizabeth and uses all his connections to have her represented in the best way possible.  While this May to December romance was sweet in some ways, it bordered on the unbelievable -- older man saves younger woman's life and the result is they fall in love.  It should only be so easy.<br />I guess you could categorize this book as romantic suspense.  While Ike is having his own doubts about whether or not Elizabeth is guilty, so is the reader.  Fast is definitely a skilled writer but this book is nothing compared to those generational sagas that made his name so synonomous with that genre many years ago.	2000-10-19
US	53006770	R4XKCWXHE43JO	0613071255	473671370	Total Control	Books	5	240	255	N	N	TOTAL ENJOYMENT	My first introduction to David Baldacci was back in 1996 when People Magazine picked his first book, Absolute Power, as the &quot;Page Turner of the Week&quot;.  I thought the premise of that book was phenomenal and I became an immediate fan.  For some reason, I skipped over Total Control and went on to read his third and fourth books, The Winner and The Simple Truth.  Both were good reads but nothing compared to Absolute Power.  I'm glad I went back and read Total Control because it's in true Baldacci form in my opinion.<br />In this offering, Baldacci takes the typical American family, Sidney and Jason Archer and their little daughter Amy, and pits them against corporate greed at its worst.  Sidney (the wife with a man's name) is a corporate attorney.  Jason, the husband, is an executive with a technology company.  Since Sidney is working on a deal that will merge her husband's company with another major technology firm, she is privy to many things that could lead to trouble.  Jason, on the other hand, is struggling to make more money so that his wife can become a stay-at-home mom to their daughter.  While this concept is characteristic of many American families, sometimes this drive can lead to a downward spiral of events from which there is no return.  When Jason disappears, it is up to Sidney to try to clear his name while trying to save her own job at the same time.  This book is replete with all the scenarios that followers of the thriller genre have come to expect.  There's a plane crash, a car chase, espionage, kidnapping, phone-tapping and the usual sinister characters you find in most of Baldacci's books.<br />I read most of this book on the plane traveling from Minnesota to Philadelphia.  It never seems to fail that when I'm flying, I'm usually reading a book that involves a plane crash.  The good thing about this book is that it is so fast-paced that I arrived at my destination without even realizing I had been in the air over three hours.  If you're looking for something that is suspenseful and believable, I think you'd enjoy this one.  I'd like to add that as I looked around to see what other people on the plane were reading, I was not surprised to see other readers with Baldacci titles in their hands.  I guess he's come a long way since that first book back in 1996.  Kudos to you David Baldacci for your well-deserved success.oking for something that is suspenseful and believable, I think you'd enjoy this one.  I'd like to add that as I looked around to see what other people on the plane were reading, I was not surprised to see other readers with Baldacci titles in their hands.  I guess he's come a long way since that first book back in 1996.  Kudos to you David Baldacci for your well-deserved success.	2000-10-18
US	53006770	R19P5EBRV4FRNL	0786866586	574463302	Shopgirl: A Novella	Books	5	24	29	N	N	STEVE MARTIN &quot;DELIVERS THE GOODS&quot;	I have to give this book a 5 star rating for two reasons.  First of all, it's a &quot;novella&quot; as it states right on the front of the cover and, since a novella is described as a form of short novel rich in realism and satire, Martin certainly delivers on this score.  Since satire is the use of sarcasm or irony in describing human folly and vice, who is better than Steve Martin to expound on this subject.  The second reason for the 5 star rating is that the main character's first name is Mirabelle.  That's worth a star all on its own.<br />I guess you'd have to have been living on another planet this week not to have seen Martin touting his book on all the talk shows.  Having liked everything he has done in the past, I took a chance, went right to Amazon and the next day had the book in my hand. (I know, I was also surprised at the unbelievably quick delivery).  I'm always amazed when creative people can be creative in so many different areas.  For all of Martin's jokes and foibles, he has now proven to me that he is also a talented author.<br />We are introduced to Mirabelle, 28,  as she is working behind the glove counter at Neiman Marcus.  While most of us might find this job less than desirable, Mirabelle is proud of her counter but has dreams of bigger and better things -- perhaps being promoted to the perfume counter where she can experience the one thing in life she longs for.....people to talk to.  (I'm crying for her already).  For all her beauty and poise, Mirabelle is a loser at love and perhaps even life.  Enter Mr. Ray Porter, 50's, single and wealthy and the real irony of the story begins. The author's descriptions of the sometimes mundane people, places and things are exceptional but his right on target descriptions of the feelings of the two main characters is nothing short of masterful.  This is a poignant story of finding your place in life and finding that place within yourself where you can &quot;happily&quot; reside.<br />One of my favorite descriptions in the book comes when Martin is describing Mirabelle's trip home from work each day.  It is a 15 mile ride down Beverly Hills Boulevard and starts out in a swank part of town and, as the trip proceeds, the area gradually becomes less than desirable.  Steve Martin describes this as a &quot;monopoly board in reverse.&quot;  I think this is so clever and often wonder why I can't come up with an analogy like that.  I guess the reason why is that Martin is creative and I'm not.<br />This book is so true to form that it reads almost like a memoir of something that has truly happened.  One can't help but wonder if Steve Martin is, himself, searching for Mirabelle or if, in fact, he has let someone like Mirabelle slip through his fingers.<br />Because this book is so well-written and because Mr. Martin lives on the West coast, I will have to forgive him one major editing snafu.  There is no way in the world that you could get on a plane in New York headed for Vermont at 8AM, sit on the runway for an hour before taking off, arrive at the airport in Vermont in time to board a bus which will ride for 150 miles and reach your destination at the bus station in another town in  Vermont at 11:30AM.  No way Jose......or should I say No way Steve.e descriptions in the book comes when Martin is describing Mirabelle's trip home from work each day.  It is a 15 mile ride down Beverly Hills Boulevard and starts out in a swank part of town and, as the trip proceeds, the area gradually becomes less than desirable.  Steve Martin describes this as a &quot;monopoly board in reverse.&quot;  I think this is so clever and often wonder why I can't come up with an analogy like that.  I guess the reason why is that Martin is creative and I'm not.<br />This book is so true to form that it reads almost like a memoir of something that has truly happened.  One can't help but wonder if Steve Martin is, himself, searching for Mirabelle or if, in fact, he has let someone like Mirabelle slip through his fingers.<br />Because this book is so well-written and because Mr. Martin lives on the West coast, I will have to forgive him one major editing snafu.  There is no way in the world that you could get on a plane in New York headed for Vermont at 8AM, sit on the runway for an hour before taking off, arrive at the airport in Vermont in time to board a bus which will ride for 150 miles and reach your destination at the bus station in another town in  Vermont at 11:30AM.  No way Jose......or should I say No way Steve.	2000-10-17
US	53006770	RT3MHZ9BJNIJ6	0060196246	648069616	Wild Justice	Books	4	6	6	N	N	&quot;REVENGE&quot; IS CONSIDERED &quot;WILD JUSTICE&quot;	This book is so fast-paced and sensational;  just what a thriller should be.  Unfortunately, it does something a thriller NEVER should do -- give away the killer in the first 1/3 of the book.  With one sentence, Phillip Margolin handed me the ending of this book and that's why it only warrants four stars from me instead of five.  One thing that Margolin does do is explain right away what the title of the book means in a quote by Francis Bacon, &quot;Revenge is a kind of wild justice.&quot;  And, therein lies the essence of this book -- REVENGE.<br />Phillip Margolin gives us a cast of characters each one more despicable than the next.  Vincent Cardoni is a brilliant surgeon;  he's also an abrasive and arrogant cocaine addict.  Justine Castle is his beautiful soon-to-be ex-wife;  also a surgeon with a dubious past.  Clifford Grant is another surgeon who also has a side business -- he sells donor organs on the black market but, unfortunately, his donors didn't agree to give him their organs.  All three of these doctors work for the famed St. Francis Hospital in Portland, Oregon.  The first piece of advice that Margolin should be giving people is to STEER CLEAR OF THIS HOSPITAL.  When an isolated cabin in the woods is searched as a result of an anonymous tip, a gruesome plot unfolds taking the reader on a roller coaster ride.  Vincent Cardoni is arrested and hires Frank Jaffe, a renowned criminal attorney and his daughter, Amanda, who is just starting out in her father's firm.  All of the evidence points to Cardoni and, even if he isn't guilty, everyone abhors him so much that he might just as well be guilty.  The plot thickens and Cardoni claims he is being set up. When Cardoni disappears and the crimes suddenly begin again in his absence, the real story starts.<br />Having read Margolin's bestseller, Gone But Not Forgotten, many years ago, it's hard not to want the same thrill each time you read a book by this author.  I'm sure it must be harder for Margolin to live up to these expectations.  While Wild Justice is certainly not on a par with that book, it has enough plot twists and turns to satisfy most readers of this genre.  Like I mentioned before, if only he hadn't made it so easy to figure out, it would have been a much better read.up to these expectations.  While Wild Justice is certainly not on a par with that book, it has enough plot twists and turns to satisfy most readers of this genre.  Like I mentioned before, if only he hadn't made it so easy to figure out, it would have been a much better read.	2000-10-15
US	53006770	R19TLZPN6YN4FU	0684862719	925429454	PAY IT FORWARD: A Novel	Books	5	18	21	N	N	LOVED IT!!!  LOVED IT!!!  LOVED IT!!!	If you only read one &quot;feel good&quot; book a year, make it this one.  Of course, if you're cynical by nature and look at the glass as half full, please pass on this one.  This is a book that will satisfy the little bit of optimist that hopefully resides deep within us all.  Since the movie version of this book has already been cast, it is great to be able to picture Haley Joel Osment in the title role with Helen Hunt as his mother and Kevin Spacey as his teacher.<br />Trevor McKinney, 12 years old and living with his single mom, is given an assignment by his teacher -- an assignment that, if done properly, would hopefully change the world in some way.  While most of his classmates decide not to participate in the extra credit project, Trevor comes up with a plan that has some merit.  Do &quot;life-changing&quot; favors for three different people and instead of accepting payment for these favors, instruct those people to instead pass on this goodwill to three people of their own choosing so ultimately another nine people will be helped and then eventually twenty-seven people until the chain will reach a point where people are receiving favors a second time around.  The plan is called PAY IT FORWARD and it soon becomes a &quot;movement.&quot;<br />Chris Chandler is an investigative reporter who is given the job of tracking down this movement to see if in fact there is anything to it.  While Chris is trying to get to the core of this story, Trevor is getting disenchanted with his efforts.  All three of his beginning favors go bust -- or so he thinks.  Will people actually pay it forward or will they just take your help and forget about passing it on?  While reading this story, you can't help but root for Trevor's every dream about mankind and every wish for society to come true.  Is it possible to count on people to repay a favor?  While Trevor is waging his battle, his mother Arlene is waging her own war against alcoholism and hopefully is winning with the help of her AA sponsor and her son.  The person who has started this whole ball rolling is Trevor's teacher Reuben, a Viet Nam vet whose face has been so scarred that he finds it hard to be accepted by people for what he is.  This book is so rich with characters you can relate to -- characters you want to know -- characters you want to help.  I wanted to jump in and tell Trevor that I'd do three favors for people to help his cause.<br />Catherine Ryan Hyde does a wonderful job of telling this story through the eyes of many people.  Along with Trevor's diary pages and the reporter's interviews, it makes for a wonderful reading experience.  I had never heard of this author before but have since ordered her book, Funerals for Horses.  Now I have two things to look forward to -- seeing the movie of Pay It Forward and reading this author's other book.  Life doesn't get too much better than that unless of course people see the movie and decide to PAY IT FORWARD on their own.f her AA sponsor and her son.  The person who has started this whole ball rolling is Trevor's teacher Reuben, a Viet Nam vet whose face has been so scarred that he finds it hard to be accepted by people for what he is.  This book is so rich with characters you can relate to -- characters you want to know -- characters you want to help.  I wanted to jump in and tell Trevor that I'd do three favors for people to help his cause.<br />Catherine Ryan Hyde does a wonderful job of telling this story through the eyes of many people.  Along with Trevor's diary pages and the reporter's interviews, it makes for a wonderful reading experience.  I had never heard of this author before but have since ordered her book, Funerals for Horses.  Now I have two things to look forward to -- seeing the movie of Pay It Forward and reading this author's other book.  Life doesn't get too much better than that unless of course people see the movie and decide to PAY IT FORWARD on their own.	2000-10-15
US	53006770	R7X0C9V3EEX4C	0385502532	903040762	Drowning Ruth: A Novel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	35	45	N	N	PLEASE!  DROWN THEM ALL	Yes, I read it because Oprah picked it -- always fearful that she'll pick out a great book and I'll miss it if I don't read it.  I needn't have worried -- it's not great and I wouldn't have missed it at all.  At the beginning, I felt that the book had great promise.  Schwarz' descriptions alone were worth the price of the book.  &quot;Outside the train station, I drew the city's breath, yeasty from the breweries and bittersweet from the chocolate factory, into my lungs and felt better already.&quot;  With this one sentence, I too could smell the city and felt I was in for a great reading experience.  Unfortunately, the book jumped around too much from before--to after--to present--to actual happenings--to dream sequences.  At one point, I didn't know if I was coming or going because sometimes these sequences all happened on the same page.  Like pieces of a puzzle, the author gives you a little piece here and there but by the time you get to the end of the book, it's so anti-climatic that it was quite a letdown.  You reach a crescendo and then plummet.<br />When we first meet Amanda Starkey, she is a nurse taking care of soldiers wounded in the Great War.  She has decided to return to her family farm, on Nagawaukee Lake, to spend time with her younger sister Mattie and her niece Ruth.  As the story unfolds, we learn the first of many secrets in the book -- why is Amanda leaving her job in Milwaukee?  Once there, she convinces her sister to move to their other house on a small island on the lake.  Why?  That's the next secret.  This book is so full of secrets, lies, deceit, hiding and grief that at one point I wanted to smack the main character.  But someone is the catalyst for all this angst and you'd have to read the book to find the answer.  The one thing that is not a secret throughout the entire book is the fact that Amanda's sister Mattie has drowned in the lake.  Someone said that this book is layered like an onion and you have to keep peeling away to get to the core.  That may be true but I got tired by the fifth layer.<br />I really wanted to like this book.  It wasn't as dysfunctional as most of Oprah's picks and it didn't have the &quot;woman rises above all odds&quot; theme that is so prevalent in all her books.  But it also wasn't a very likable book.  I didn't walk away from this reading experience with the desire to know anything more about these characters or with the usual daily thoughts that creep into your head everyday after reading a good book.  It was just, &quot;I'm done; next book&quot;.  That's the best way I can describe it.  I know many reviewers liked it but it just wasn't my kind of book -- the kind of book that you say to someone &quot;you have to read this&quot;.  In my opinion, you don't have to read this.he core.  That may be true but I got tired by the fifth layer.<br />I really wanted to like this book.  It wasn't as dysfunctional as most of Oprah's picks and it didn't have the &quot;woman rises above all odds&quot; theme that is so prevalent in all her books.  But it also wasn't a very likable book.  I didn't walk away from this reading experience with the desire to know anything more about these characters or with the usual daily thoughts that creep into your head everyday after reading a good book.  It was just, &quot;I'm done; next book&quot;.  That's the best way I can describe it.  I know many reviewers liked it but it just wasn't my kind of book -- the kind of book that you say to someone &quot;you have to read this&quot;.  In my opinion, you don't have to read this.	2000-10-07
US	53006770	R2RYEPXI0RO5EE	0345401018	247982925	Apaches	Books	5	12	14	N	N	DON'T GET IN THE WAY OF THE &quot;APACHES&quot;	My first introduction to this author was via his bestseller Sleepers which, I have been quoted as saying, was one of the best books I've ever read.  While I had high expectations at the start of this book, I wasn't disappointed as many other reviewers seem to have been.  I almost feel as if I have to justify my 5 star rating.  I knew nothing was going to be as good as Sleepers, so I kept an open mind while reading.  In my estimation, Carcaterra cannot disappoint me because his storytelling expertise is unparalleled.  Since I am not reviewing this book based on the number of cliches nor am I expecting a great literary masterpiece, my enjoyment factor alone warrants the 5 stars given.<br />In the first part of the book, we are introduced to six characters, each of which was a great cop at one point in their lives.  Unfortunately, things happen, cops get hurt and these six cops are forced to collect their pensions, lick their wounds and perform jobs that are less than enjoyable than their previous employment with the NYPD.  While they are still physically alive, they feel dead inside.  Each of them had an expertise and it is this expertise that will bring them together once again as a renegade crime stopping unit called Apaches.  They are not sanctioned by the police department but still have enough connections to be able to call in the favors necessary to enable them to perform their mission.<br />They have some great nicknames as well -- Boomer, Dead-Eye, Pins, Geronimo, Reverend Jim and Mrs. Columbo.  Carcaterra introduces you to each character individually and you feel an immediate connection.  Since the premise of the book is about disabled cops, you read each chapter with trepidation knowing full well that doom is imminent just around the corner.  As the Apaches, they get involved with trying to stop a drug trafficking ring led by a woman, named Lucia, out of her homebase in Arizona.  Her tentacles stretch all the way across the country but then so do theirs. There's one other member in their group and he isn't a cop at all -- not by any stretch of the imagination.  His name is Nunzio and he is the owner of an Italian restaurant where the Apaches meet.  Lucia's connections can't compare to Nunzio's if you catch my drift.<br />While some of this book is definitely gruesome, the characters are so inspiring in not only trying to right a wrong but in the way they need their cop work to keep them alive. Unfortunately, throughout the entire book, you just know that they won't all come out alive and therein lies the dilemma -- who's going to die and who's going to live.  Once again, Carcaterra has done it for me.  I just love the way he tells a story.  He makes me feel as if I know each character as a friend and I couldn't ask any more from an author.re's one other member in their group and he isn't a cop at all -- not by any stretch of the imagination.  His name is Nunzio and he is the owner of an Italian restaurant where the Apaches meet.  Lucia's connections can't compare to Nunzio's if you catch my drift.   <br />While some of this book is definitely gruesome, the characters are so inspiring in not only trying to right a wrong but in the way they need their cop work to keep them alive. Unfortunately, throughout the entire book, you just know that they won't all come out alive and therein lies the dilemma -- who's going to die and who's going to live.  Once again, Carcaterra has done it for me.  I just love the way he tells a story.  He makes me feel as if I know each character as a friend and I couldn't ask any more from an author.	2000-10-06
US	53006770	R272P3XVVTJE8S	0345404114	473969170	Sleepers	Books	5	31	34	N	N	YOU WON'T FALL &quot;ASLEEP&quot; ON THIS ONE	I'm going to go out on a limb here and say that this was one of the best books I've ever read in my entire life.  Perhaps I feel so connected to it because the four boys involved grew up in the city of New York as did I, although for me it was Brooklyn but what's a few miles.  It also is about growing up in the 60's, so I can relate to the time period as well.  But the absolute connection for me was the reference to playing stickball and using the sewer lengths to decide who was good and who wasn't.  We played the same game but it was called punchball and if you could punch the ball more than 2 sewers, you were unbelievable.  Carcaterra brings back many memories as he refers to turning on the &quot;johnny pump&quot; to get relief from the heat in the summer and using a &quot;SPAULDEEN&quot; when playing stickball or off-the-point.  No pensy pinkies for these boys.<br />This is the story of 4 boys growing up in Hell's Kitchen in Manhattan.  They have &quot;no money, no summer camps, no vacations...nothing except one another&quot;.  Theirs was the truest of friendships the meaning of which will never be betrayed by any of them.  Michael is considered the brains, John the heart and Tommy the soul of the group.  While Lorenzo never credits himself with any qualities throughout the book, he is definitely a combination of all three of these traits.  He is also the youngest of the group and not yet a teenager when the story enfolds.  They live their life with the Catholic church as their central point of focus and find a friend in Father Bobby.  As you're reading this book, you can just picture Robert DeNiro in the title role as the priest in the movie.  They do everything that young teenage boys who lived in the city did in the 60's -- play stickball, read comics, listen to Yankee games on the radio, trade baseball cards and play pranks on unassuming people.  They never played these pranks, however, on those they perceived to be weaker than them.<br />One day, one of their pranks proves disasterous and their lives will never be the same.  They are sent away to a juvenile detention center called Wilkinson Home for Boys for a year.  When they return to Hell's Kitchen after doing their time, they will never be the same.  They are haunted by the 4 guards who were assigned to them in the home.  Years pass and they are now grown.  One becomes a reporter, another becomes a lawyer and the other two become killers.  But, they still have one thing in common -- they will always be friends.  They say REVENGE is sweet but nothing as sweet as what happens in this book.<br />Needless to say, I was mesmerized by this book from beginning to end.  As soon as I finished it, I rented the video and was mesmerized once again.  I have since purchased Carcaterra's other two books and I understand he has another one coming out in January called Gangsters.  Yes, I have become a fan.  This is a non-fiction book that reads like a novel in the hands of a master storyteller like Carcaterra.  I know there was some controversy when the book was published as to whether or not the events are true.  For this reader, I could care less.  It was a great story whether it's true or not.  I will tell you though that I believe every word he wrote.r pranks proves disasterous and their lives will never be the same.  They are sent away to a juvenile detention center called Wilkinson Home for Boys for a year.  When they return to Hell's Kitchen after doing their time, they will never be the same.  They are haunted by the 4 guards who were assigned to them in the home.  Years pass and they are now grown.  One becomes a reporter, another becomes a lawyer and the other two become killers.  But, they still have one thing in common -- they will always be friends.  They say REVENGE is sweet but nothing as sweet as what happens in this book.<br />Needless to say, I was mesmerized by this book from beginning to end.  As soon as I finished it, I rented the video and was mesmerized once again.  I have since purchased Carcaterra's other two books and I understand he has another one coming out in January called Gangsters.  Yes, I have become a fan.  This is a non-fiction book that reads like a novel in the hands of a master storyteller like Carcaterra.  I know there was some controversy when the book was published as to whether or not the events are true.  For this reader, I could care less.  It was a great story whether it's true or not.  I will tell you though that I believe every word he wrote.	2000-10-05
US	53006770	R3PKIASJPH2CGD	0375506039	878470234	Open House	Books	5	13	15	N	N	OPEN THE DOOR AND LET THIS ONE IN	This was the first book I've ever read by Elizabeth Berg so perhaps I wasn't expecting as much as the diehard Berg fans have come to expect. For me, this was a pleasurable read -- an eye-opener into the emotions associated with those first few months after your marriage has broken up.  Berg chooses a main character, Samantha Morrow, who is easy to relate to.  Her ups and downs become the reader's ups and downs and her triumphs will become yours as well.  If Sam &quot;lost herself&quot; during her marriage, Open House finds her &quot;rediscovering herself&quot; during the separation.<br />When David, (a wealthy Paul Newman look-alike) tells his wife  that he is moving out, Samantha displays emotions that, while are sometimes beyond belief, you can see yourself doing.  She goes on a shopping spree at Tiffanys, decides to take in boarders to supplement her income and signs up with a temporary agency in an effort to find a job.  In the suspending belief department, each boarder she takes in immediately becomes a family member, King, an MIT graduate who majored in astrophysics, is working at menial jobs and Sam, who is separated from a &quot;wealthy&quot; husband, finds herself counting change in a laundromat as one of her part time jobs.<br />While I had a problem with the time frame -- never quite knowing how much time had passed from chapter to chapter -- I felt that the succession of events were true to form.  David leaves Sam;  Travis, her son, gives her a hard time;  her best friend Rita arrives from California to help Sam get through this hard time;  her mother Veronica starts setting her up on blind dates and Sam starts to realize that there is &quot;light at the end of the tunnel.&quot;  Reading about Sam arrive at this point was quite refreshing.<br />As much as we complain about Oprah's picks, I thank her for introducing me to this &quot;new for me&quot; author.  From what I've read in the other reviews, she's obviously written books that her readers have enjoyed more than this one.  Since I enjoyed this one, I can now look forward to some of her previous and perhaps better books.yed more than this one.  Since I enjoyed this one, I can now look forward to some of her previous and perhaps better books.	2000-10-04
US	53006770	R224BV154PJGSS	0446520659	210194816	The Lion's Game	Books	5	1	2	N	N	DEMILLE'S THE &quot;KING OF THE JUNGLE&quot;	In this latest of Nelson Demille's books, John Corey, of Plum Island fame, returns as an ex-NYPD homicide detective -- now on contract to the FBI's Anti Terrorist Task Force - Mideast Division.  I personally could not stand John Corey's arrogance in Plum Island yet in The Lion's Game, I almost felt that it was warranted as he meets his match in Asad Khalil from Libya.<br />The story opens with John and the rest of his FBI team waiting at JFK Airport for Trans Continental Flight #175.  Supposedly, it is transporting a Libyan defector, Asad Khalil, also known as The Lion.  For some reason, this flight has been in a NO-RAD situation for the past few hours meaning that there has been no radio contact between the pilot and air traffic control.  When it finally lands on time, everyone breathes a sigh of relief.  The events that follow will have you questioning yourself as to whether or not you ever want to fly again.<br />Demille's attention to detail and research is once again evident as he takes the reader back in time to April 15, 1986 when the U.S. bombed Libya in retaliation for the April 5th bombing of a West Berlin disco frequented by American military.  It is at this bombing, 14 years ago, that events are set in motion for &quot;revenge&quot;. It takes awhile before the reader actually finds out just what that revenge will be but one thing is for sure, &quot;it will not be nice&quot;.<br />The author really gets into the heads of the two main characters, Corey and Khalil, telling the story from both points of view.  Khalil is the worst kind of terrorist and never evoked one ounce of sympathy from this reader.  Corey's abrasiveness and arrogance, so prevalent in Plum Island, becomes almost rewarding and gratifying in The Lion's Game as he tries to outwit Khalil in his destructive jihad.<br />Fans of Demille will particularly enjoy his references to some of his other books within the context of this one.  He casually mentions John Corey going to see John Travolta in a movie about a general's daughter;  he has John Corey eating at Guilios on Mott Street (a favorite of the don in The Gold Coast);  and also mentions Mrs. Ivanova's school that we all remember from The Charm School.  The ending of this book obviously leaves the door open for a return visit by John Corey.  I can unequivocally say that Demille is by far one of my favorite authors.  This is the fifth book that I have read by him so I have a few of his other books waiting for me.  My only complaint about this book is that the bookbinding is terrible.  The book was falling apart by the time I reached page 200.a movie about a general's daughter;  he has John Corey eating at Guilios on Mott Street (a favorite of the don in The Gold Coast);  and also mentions Mrs. Ivanova's school that we all remember from The Charm School.  The ending of this book obviously leaves the door open for a return visit by John Corey.  I can unequivocally say that Demille is by far one of my favorite authors.  This is the fifth book that I have read by him so I have a few of his other books waiting for me.  My only complaint about this book is that the bookbinding is terrible.  The book was falling apart by the time I reached page 200.	2000-10-04
US	53006770	R32XR3SQHOJ3GE	0671786660	142034644	Even Steven	Books	5	13	14	N	N	THE CHASE GOES ON	It's quite obvious to fans of John Gilstrap that this is an author who likes the &quot;chase&quot;.  In his debut novel, Nathan's Run, he had 12 year old Nathan Bailey being chased by the cops.  In his second novel, At All Costs, the entire Donovan family was being chased by the FBI.  Now in his third novel, Even Steven, Gilstrap has stayed true to form as we find Susan and Bobby Martin being chased by the cops, the FBI and a kidnapper.<br />In this book, Gilstrap gives us three concurrent stories that you know will eventually be neatly tied together by this skillful author.  In Maryland, Susan and Bobby Martin have been disappointed one too many times in trying to have a baby.  After their last mishap, they decide to take a camping trip to West Virginia to regroup and celebrate their wedding anniversary.  In Pittsburgh, April Simpson returns home from work to find out that her three year old son Justin has been kidnapped.  In West Virginia, two brothers, Jacob and Samuel, have been hired out to kidnap a child.  You will travel from state to state during this chase led by FBI agent Russell Coates.<br />The opening scene finds Susan and Bobby relaxing at their campsite when their peaceful evening is disturbed by a screaming child who is obviously running away from someone.  While trying to quiet the child, a man comes running into the clearing claiming to be the boy's father.  The couple realize that something is not right with this scenario and challenge the man.  A fight ensues, someone is killed and the &quot;chase&quot; begins.<br />Those familiar with Gilstrap now know they will be in for the ride of their lives.  As with his other two books, it is a fast- paced page turner and, midway through the book, you can't imagine how this will ever turn out OK.  As the FBI begins to close in, Agent Coates has his own doubts as to the actual suspects at the same time that the reader does.<br />I became a fan of this author when I read Nathan's Run three years ago.  I now anxiously await every new book he writes knowing that I will never be disappointed.  He's one of a kind in a class all his own.  I envy anyone who hasn't read his books yet knowing that they have some wonderful surprises ahead of them.w anxiously await every new book he writes knowing that I will never be disappointed.  He's one of a kind in a class all his own.  I envy anyone who hasn't read his books yet knowing that they have some wonderful surprises ahead of them.	2000-09-30
US	53006770	R3NIKE49HFKM6G	0786864982	956881218	Night Gardening : A Novel	Books	3	2	2	N	N	LOVE WHILE &quot;NIGHT GARDENING&quot;	Maggie Flaherty Welles is a 61 year old widow who is recovering from a  stroke.  Tristan Mallory, 60, is a landscape architect who has been hired  by Maggie's next door neighbors to put in what is known as a white garden  -- a rendition of Vita Sackville-West's white garden at Sissinghurst.  The  third character in this book, and possibly the most prominent, is Maggie's  garden.  Prior to her stroke, gardening was her passion.  She was married  to Adam Welles, from a respected Massachusetts family, who was also a  borderline alcoholic.  To compensate for her loneliness, Maggie sought  refuge in her garden with her flowers.  Now it breaks her heart to look  outside and view her beloved garden in its most unkempt state.  Maggie can  no longer derive any pleasure from something that was once so  beautiful.<br />Through a hole in the wall, Maggie is able to view Tristan at  work in the neighbor's garden and is able to relive some of the glorious  days of the past in her own garden.  Tristan immediately sees Maggie as a  kindred soul and is drawn to her both for her sheer beauty and the love of  gardening they both share.  The attraction fills a void left in both of  their lives and together they forge a more than satisfying and beautiful  relationship.  The author's descriptions are sincere and the passion  between the two is evident.  E.L. Swann throws in some controversy between  Maggie and her two adult children as well as the nurses and aides hired to  help her through the day.<br />Although it was nice to read a love story  between two people who felt that love was gone for them at this point in  their lives, I think I would have had a greater appreciation for this book  if I shared the love for gardening that Tristan and Maggie shared. For the  utmost enjoyment of this book, I would suggest reading it in the Spring,  while on your patio, with the flowers in bloom all around you.	2000-09-07
US	53006770	R1K4Q91MJU3ZDK	0684855631	430524886	The Empty Chair	Books	4	5	7	N	N	THE &quot;EMPTY&quot; CHAIR IN THE &quot;EMPTY&quot; TERRAIN	This is the third book that Jeffery Deaver has written in the Lincoln  Rhyme/Amelia Sachs' series and my advice is that if this is your first  Deaver book, go back and read the other two first -- The Bone Collector and  The Coffin Dancer -- to get a better understanding of the dynamics between  these two powerful main characters.  If you are already up-to-date on these  previous two novels, then you know the routine.  Lincoln Rhyme is an  ex-NYPD detective and a renowned criminalist.  He is also a quadriplegic  having been hurt while dissecting a crime scene a few years ago.  This  doesn't stop him from continuing his forensic evidence gathering as he has  delegated that job to Amelia Sachs, who he uses as his legs in walking the  grid through crime scenes and reporting back to him so that he can decipher  the evidence and ultimately solve the crime.<br />While unraveling the crime  is no easy task, Lincoln is able to analyze the smallest piece of dirt or  the thinnest piece of fiber to come up with another piece of the puzzle to  decipher the mystery.  The Empty Chair finds Lincoln and Amelia on someone  else's turf -- North Carolina -- as they are enlisted by the local police  there to help them find the &quot;Insect Boy&quot; who has just kidnapped  two women and is allegedly responsible for some other gruesome murders in  the small town.  Lincoln's initial reason for leaving New York and going to  North Carolina was to have a risky operation -- one that would give him  some more mobility if successful or could kill him if unsuccessful.  Amelia  is against this operation so encourages him to get involved in finding the  Insect Boy with the hope that it would delay and eventually cancel the  operation.  The story that follows finds Amelia chasing the suspect through  the marshes and quarries of North Carolina and, at one point, becoming too  sympathetic to the culprit against Lincoln's wishes.  What ensues leaves  the reader a bit speechless as it is unbelievable to fathom that the  succession of events could ever end up with any kind of legally acceptable  ending.  As usual, Deaver does manage to tie the pieces together but  perhaps a little too neatly in this reader's opinion.<br />I think I enjoy  these books more when Lincoln and Amelia are in their own territory -- New  York -- a place that each of them knows like the back of their hand.  I  also missed all the state-of-the-art equipment in Lincoln's townhouse as  well as the collection of NYPD detectives that aggravate Lincoln on a daily  basis.  And, perhaps I'm getting tired of all the evidence collecting.  After a while, one piece of dirt is the same as the next piece as far as  I'm concerned.  I may have run the gamut with this series but will probably  give it one more try when the next book comes out.to fathom that the  succession of events could ever end up with any kind of legally acceptable  ending.  As usual, Deaver does manage to tie the pieces together but  perhaps a little too neatly in this reader's opinion.<br />I think I enjoy  these books more when Lincoln and Amelia are in their own territory -- New  York -- a place that each of them knows like the back of their hand.  I  also missed all the state-of-the-art equipment in Lincoln's townhouse as  well as the collection of NYPD detectives that aggravate Lincoln on a daily  basis.  And, perhaps I'm getting tired of all the evidence collecting.   After a while, one piece of dirt is the same as the next piece as far as  I'm concerned.  I may have run the gamut with this series but will probably  give it one more try when the next book comes out.	2000-09-06
US	53006770	R7UNS4SBOADM0	0553561618	806983409	Dark Paradise: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A BAD HAIR  DAY GETS WORSE	A bad day for Marilee Jennings is one that &quot;starts out as a bad hair  day and goes downhill from there.&quot;  Little does she know, as she's  driving to Montana, that what started as a bad day will only get  progressively worse as the day goes on.<br />Marilee is leaving behind her  life as a court stenographer in California and traveling to New Eden,  Montana to surprise her friend Lucy.  Lucy relocated there from California  over a year ago and has been living the good life in the beautiful hills of  that state since then.  The surprise is entirely on Marilee as she arrives  at Lucy's house, only to find out that Lucy has been killed in a hunting  accident.  She gets this news from J.D. Rafferty -- the rough, tough cowboy  who lives on the adjoining ranch.<br />As others in the town start to die  mysteriously, Marilee begins to think that perhaps Lucy's accident was  intentional.  Marilee fights a lone battle as she tries to unravel Lucy's  life before her death.  She has so many questions to be answered and no one  who is willing to answer them.  The ensuing story is well thought out but  perhaps a bit predictable.  The sexual tension between Marilee and J.D.  Rafferty is worth the price of the book alone.  Since Hoag is such a  talented author, she's able to carry it through with ease.<br />Hoag is one of  my favorite authors in the mystery/thriller genre.  However, I would  categorize this book as romantic suspense and, as such, reads more like a  Nora Roberts' book than the kind of Tami Hoag book to which I have become  accustomed.	2000-09-06
US	53006770	R2W32HEZEGXHG8	0312244266	997866733	Winter Solstice	Books	5	67	73	N	N	NEVER A &quot;SHORT DAY&quot; WITH A GOOD PILCHER BOOK	PLAIN &amp; SIMPLE -- if you love Pilcher, you'll love this book.  The  Winter Solstice is considered to be the shortest day of the year.  When  reading a Pilcher book, it doesn't matter if the days are long or short  because she will fill them with so much love and warmth that you'll be  transported to the desired location in record time.  While I'll admit that  this book is not as good as Coming Home or The Shell Seekers, it has the  same wonderful characters and wonderful descriptions that have become  synonomous with Pilcher.<br />In this book, all roads lead to one destination  -- in this case Corrydale, the Estate House in Northern Scotland.  You'll  have to read the book to find out how everyone ends up there, however.  Pilcher introduces us to a bevy of characters -- 62 year old Elfrida  Phipps, a retired actress who has just left London to seek quiet in a  little cottage in Dibton in Hampshire;  Gloria and Oscar Blundell, along  with their daughter Francesca, who make Elfrida feel more than welcome in  her new town;  Carrie, who has just left Austria and a broken romance to  begin anew;  Carrie's niece Lucy who, as a teenager, stands in the way of  her mother's new and exciting relatonship with her American boyfriend and,  last but not least, Sam, originally from England, but has been working in  America for the past few years.  He has now been called back by his company  to go to Scotland to bring a broken down textile mill back to  life.<br />Somehow Pilcher manages to put all five of these characters  together and the resulting effect will warm your heart.  Through her  descriptions, you'll feel like you're sitting in the house with them  planning a Christmas holiday, while drinking tea the entire time.  The more  tea her characters drink, the more relaxed I become.  I'm just sorry to  hear that Pilcher has decided to retire but happy that I still have a few  of her books that I've yet to read.	2000-09-05
US	53006770	R124CRXN1EG5K3	0446524808	67814338	Traveling Light	Books	5	0	0	N	N	NO BAGGAGE HERE!!!!	This is a heartrending story about love in its purest form.  If you're a  sister and have a brother, you can definitely relate to the love and  emotion that Summer feels as she watches her brother Todd dying of AIDS.  The reader is further blessed by the insight into one of the most beautiful  relationships I've ever had the privilege of reading about -- that between  Todd and his life partner Jacob.  As a heterosexual woman, there is no  doubt in my mind that there is no one on this planet more sensitive to  someone's needs as the homosexual man.  I've seen this firsthand but have  never been able to view a relationship in its totality as I have through  the words of Katrina Kittle.<br />Summer is a promising graduate of the Old  Mill high school with dreams of a career in the ballet.  An accident cuts  short her dreams and she is wallowing in self-pity before her brother Todd  snaps her out of it.  She then makes him a promise that one day he will see  other gifts she has -- once she's able to find out what they are herself.  Little does she know, at the time, that there's a deadline -- Todd has  AIDS.  When Todd calls and asks for help, Summer returns to the same Old  Mill school -- this time as a teacher -- so that she can live with and help  care for her brother.  Together with Arnicia, a home health care aide,  Nicholas, Summer's boyfriend, and Jacob, the love of Todd's life, they form  a &quot;real&quot; family unit but not in the conventional sense of the  word.  Kittle has the ability to challenge the reader to believe that this  is what a family is really about -- caring, love and undying patience.  It's not the mom, dad and 2 kids, dog and picket fence as we've been  taught.  While we know at the onset that Todd will eventually die, the  reader is taken on a journey that includes good days and bad days.  We  hope, along with Summer, that each waking day will find Todd in good  spirits.  Some days &quot;the sickness stays outside the house&quot; and  everyone on the inside is able to enjoy the smallest pleasures that life  can bring.  The depth of Kittle's descriptions of the AIDS virus and its  attending side effects leads the reader to believe that the author has  definitely lived through this experience.<br />You'll laugh at times and be  hard-pressed not to cry on more than one occasion.  Leave your baggage at  the door when you pick up this book and remember to &quot;travel  light&quot; -- that's what Todd did and it ended up to be a gift to  everyone he loved and cherished.eryone on the inside is able to enjoy the smallest pleasures that life  can bring.  The depth of Kittle's descriptions of the AIDS virus and its  attending side effects leads the reader to believe that the author has  definitely lived through this experience.<br />You'll laugh at times and be  hard-pressed not to cry on more than one occasion.  Leave your baggage at  the door when you pick up this book and remember to &quot;travel  light&quot; -- that's what Todd did and it ended up to be a gift to  everyone he loved and cherished.	2000-09-04
US	53006770	RN07VQ207D865	067944212X	206728006	Projection: A Novel	Books	5	11	13	N	N	EXCELLENT SEQUEL TO ABLOW'S FIRST BOOK &quot;DENIAL&quot;	Keith Ablow picks up right where he left off in his first book Denial.  Psychopathic plastic surgeon, Trevor Lucas, is now on trial for the brutal murders of 4 people in and around Lynn, Massachusetts.  Unfortunately,  Frank Clevenger, forensic psychiatrist, knows he's not guilty but can't  bring himself to give this information to the police for fear of what it  will do to the real killer.  This fact torments Clevenger throughout the  entire book and just adds to his already existing demons.<br />Trevor Lucas is  as psychotic a character as I've ever met in books of this type.  He takes  over a locked unit for the criminally insane taking hostages at the same  time.  He asks for one person, and one person only to negotiate with and  that person is Frank Clevenger.  What Clevenger sees upon entering this  hospital makes for some gruesome and rather scary reading.<br />Since Ablow  himself is a forensic psychiatrist, everything in this book is incredibly  believable.  It makes the reader wonder if Ablow has been through similar  scenarios in his business.  I can't recommend this book enough but do  yourself a favor, read Denial first to learn exactly what makes Frank  Clevenger tick.	2000-07-05
US	53006770	R1WMZMEPK464C3	0060930535	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	11	14	N	N	NO ANTIDOTE NEEDED FOR POISONWOOD BIBLE	This is the first book I have read by Barbara Kingsolver and, like many other readers, became an immediate fan.  I love to read books that take me places where I've never been before and probably will never get to in my  lifetime.  In Poisonwood Bible, the location is the Belgian Congo and is  set in a time when the people of the Congo are seeking independence from  Belgium.  The novel covers a span of almost 40 years following each of the  characters' lives, thoughts, up and downs, and finally their discovery of  self and their strengths.<br />Nathan Price, a missionary, has been sent to  convert the heathens in the Congo and brings his wife and four daughters  along on his mission.  They move from Georgia to the Congo and the scene in  which they are packing what they'll need while there is nothing short of a  comedic routine.  Just picture leaving &quot;junior league&quot; Georgia --  destination &quot;the jungle&quot;.  I keep remembering the scene where  they are told to pack very little so they decide to layer their clothing in  order to be able to bring more attire than they could fit in their  suitcases.  One of the daughters is layered about 5 deep so you can just  imagine how hot she is upon her arrival in the Congo.<br />Kingsolver's  descriptions of the heat, destitution, disease, insects and overall  political unrest are unparalleled.  The plight of the mother Oleanna and  her four daughters is told through their own voices chapter by chapter.  This is a writing style that I particularly enjoy.  Since no voice is given  to the father, the reader is left to dislike him intensely as he is  protrayed as a religious fanatic as well as a domineering and tyranical  husband.  The correlation between the African slaves and the obedient wife  who becomes a slave to her callous husband's idealogies is duly  noted.<br />There is so much depth to this book that you will find yourself  writing down quotes from the book from time to time.  While it's sometimes  hard to keep a reader's interest going in a book of this magnitude,  Kingsolver does it masterfully.  Having known nothing of the author prior  to this reading, it was obvious throughout that she was making a political  statement.  I was glad that my eyes were opened to the travesty that exists  in this other part of the world.  If I have one complaint about the book,  it is in the author's note where she is acknowledging individuals for their  help and refers to Mumia-Abu-Jamal and states &quot;he read and commented  on the manuscript from prison;  I'm grateful for his intelligence and  courage.&quot;  She obviously didn't add that he is on death row, convicted  of killing a Philadelphia policeman some years ago. This one sentence  clouded my ultimate enjoyment of the book before it even started as I can  picture the widow and children that this cop left behind. Politics aside,  it is a masterful work by a talented and gifted author.to keep a reader's interest going in a book of this magnitude,  Kingsolver does it masterfully.  Having known nothing of the author prior  to this reading, it was obvious throughout that she was making a political  statement.  I was glad that my eyes were opened to the travesty that exists  in this other part of the world.  If I have one complaint about the book,  it is in the author's note where she is acknowledging individuals for their  help and refers to Mumia-Abu-Jamal and states &quot;he read and commented  on the manuscript from prison;  I'm grateful for his intelligence and  courage.&quot;  She obviously didn't add that he is on death row, convicted  of killing a Philadelphia policeman some years ago. This one sentence  clouded my ultimate enjoyment of the book before it even started as I can  picture the widow and children that this cop left behind. Politics aside,  it is a masterful work by a talented and gifted author.	2000-06-23
US	53006770	RJU6CVNZ56404	0060193654	146235403	One of the Guys	Books	1	18	32	N	N	SO BAD -- I COULDN'T WAIT TO BE DONE WITH IT	I am certainly in the minority with my review of this book.  Very rarely do I read a book that is so void of any redeeming qualities.  The premise  in itself is preposterous.  A down and out ex-druggie working at his job  mopping up porn movie cubicles (yuk) finds a dead Navy chaplain and assumes  his identity.  These Navy people take years training to be in the Navy and  Miles Derry is not only going to walk on the ship and become one of them  (acronyms and all) but is going to know how to perform religious ceremonies  at the same time.  The foul language was more than disgusting and the  stereotyping of all marine/naval personnel as sex-crazed lunatics makes me  wonder about who's defending our country.  Perhaps this is a guy's book.  I  was offended by everything I read on these pages.  I was not one of the  reviewers who were approached by the author himself to read the book.  I  was just someone who thought the cover and blurbs were interesting. I  obviously didn't read it carefully enough.  I was so very wrong with this  purchase.  The only other book I read last year that was as bad as this one  was The Sopranos by Alan Warner.	2000-06-21
US	53006770	R31HERJRZICF85	0679442111	203999838	Denial	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A SURPRISINGLY GOOD BOOK FROM A FIRST-TIME AUTHOR	I actually bought this book in error, thinking I was ordering something by another author Keith Snyder.  You can imagine my surprise upon reading it, that I had accidentally come upon a debut novel by a really terrific  writer.<br />Frank Cleavenger is a forensic psychiatrist who interviews  suspected murderers.  He also snorts cocaine and has as troubled a mind as  some of the people he's interviewing but he knows how to keep it in check.  The author is also a psychiatrist himself so the research is obviously  first hand and this makes the main character so much more believable.  In  this book, a small town in Massachusetts has a psycho-murderer on its hands  and Cleavenger is called in on the case.<br />Other characters that add to  this psychological thriller are Trevor Lucas, a psychopathic plastic  surgeon whose former patients are being killed and Kathy, who is living  with Cleavenger while using Trevor as a part-time lover.  Frank's volatile  nature adds to the excitement of this book.  Ablow has since written a  sequel, Projection, which I'm anxious to read after getting through this  riveting book all in one piece.	2000-06-19
US	53006770	RAURB6N0LJ32Y	1568495897	816692709	Remember Me	Books	5	24	34	N	N	YOU WON'T FORGET &quot;REMEMBER ME&quot;	Right from the start, this book had me hooked simply because of the Cape Cod setting.  Menley and Adam Nichols have rented an old captain's house called The Remember House.  As with most very old houses, there is always  the rumor that it is haunted.  This one is no exception.  But Menley has  other demons to face besides the ones haunting this house.  Her son, Bobby,  was killed when a train hit the car Menley was driving.  She has been  guilt-ridden ever since.  Only the birth of their daughter, Hannah, has  been able to help Menley with her depression and put their marriage back  together.  Adam feels that a little rest in such a beautiful place is all  that Menley needs to return to her old self.<br />Shortly after their arrival  on the island, Adam, an attorney, becomes enmeshed defending Scott Covey  who is accused of murdering his wealthy wife Vivien.  While Adam is busy  with business, Menley is slowly but surely having a nervous breakdown and  it seems to the reader that someone is trying to make her go crazy in true  &quot;Hitchcock&quot; style.<br />As usual, Higgins Clarke throws in some  extra characters and clues to throw you off track and hits you with her  customary surprise ending.<br />Please note that I'm giving this book 5 stars  for its genre only as well as comparing it to other books by this author.	2000-06-19
US	53006770	R1HY90ENS0QGTD	0385316925	491170361	Fortune's Hand	Books	4	4	5	N	N	FORTUNE'S HAND KNOCKED TOO MANY TIMES ON THIS DOOR	At one time, Belva Plain was one of my favorite authors and I'd read each book she wrote on the day it hit the stores.  Now I'm finding myself in no rush to do so and while she still writes a good book, they don't seem to be  &quot;great&quot; any longer.<br />This is the story of how Robb McDaniel  allowed &quot;fortune&quot; to ruin his life.  When his parents are killed  in an accident, he inherits enough money to go to law school and leaves his  high-school sweetheart behind with promises to return and marry her --  mistake #1.  While at law school, he meets Ellen whose father is the senior  partner in a big-time law firm -- mistake #2.  The ensuing story tells how  Robb's fortune allows him to make mistake #3, #4, #5, etc.<br />At the  beginning of this story, you have great hope for Robb.  Lady Luck has  shined down on this hometown boy enabling him to make something out of his  life.  Unfortunately, Lady Luck didn't stay around long enough.  You'll  have to read this book to find out about the rest of Robb's life and the  very dramatic, always Belva Plain-like dramatic ending of this book.	2000-06-19
US	53006770	R2GVCLAXY17BGI	0312953615	342638275	The Sculptress: A Novel	Books	5	15	17	N	N	THE SCULPTRESS -- A PERFECT TITLE FOR THIS BOOK	This is an intriguing story about Olive Martin, who is in prison for murdering and cutting up the bodies of her mother Gwen and her sister Amber.  Enter Roz, an author who is not really interested in writing any  longer.  Her publisher gives her an ultimatum and an assignment to write a  book about Olive and the murders.  She reluctantly agrees and once she  sinks her teeth into this task, she is no longer convinced that Olive  really committed the murders that she has confessed to.  Walters' portrayal  of Olive as an obese, unkempt woman adds to the story as she allows the  reader to want to believe that Olive is in fact the murderer, while at the  same time, the story that Roz is unraveling could perhaps tell us  otherwise.<br />This book won the 1994 Edgar Award for best mystery novel and  it is no surprise why.  The real surprise is how deft Minette Walters is at  making this gruesome story come alive.  It is filled with darkness, tension  and sensitivity to the protagonist.  Can Minette Walters write a bad book  -- I don't think so.  She's obviously a master of her craft.	2000-06-18
US	53006770	R20PYGDSFF3U9W	0684852853	974831720	The Coffin Dancer (A Lincoln Rhyme Novel)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	DEATH'S DANCING WITH HIS NEXT VICTIM	This is the second book in Deaver's Lincoln Rhyme series and surely places his main character in the NYPD history books as having the best criminalist mind ever.  Since Rhyme is a quadripeligic, having been injured while on  duty, all his work is done from his state of the art Clinitron bed in his  townhouse on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.  In this book, Rhyme  actually leaves his bed and can be found tooling around in his Storm Arrow  wheelchair.  Considering that he toyed with suicide in The Bone Collector,  this is a big improvement for Lincoln.  His two level townhouse is equipped  with every gadget imaginable to aid in his crime solving.  Of course,  Lincoln's biggest asset is the gorgeous Amelia Sachs whose mind is almost  as quick as Rhymes' but whose guts and tenacity almost get her in trouble  at every crime scene.  Sachs is a risk taker but she gets the job done.  She also takes some personal risks with Lincoln in this book.<br />The  assassin is &quot;The Dancer&quot; named that by Lincoln because he has a  Danse Macabre tatoo which shows &quot;death dancing with its next victim in  front of a coffin&quot;.  The Dancer and Rhyme are continually outthinking  each other throughout the book and this reader was amazed at how Lincoln  can figure out what the Dancer will do next.  While Deaver continually  takes us from crime scene to crime scene, it is so interesting to see how  just one piece of dirt or one trace of fiber can eventually solve a crime.  This book is another gruesome offering by Deaver but if you like that kind  of book, then this is for you.  My only complaint, and this goes with most  books in this genre, is how many innocent people are killed in their quest  to insure the safety of one individual.  In these books, the sought after  victim doesn't usually die but everyone else around them does.	2000-06-18
US	53006770	RM383C64UPOSL	0446519804	287482638	The Alibi	Books	4	39	42	N	N	THERE'S ALWAYS AN &quot;ALIBI&quot;	While my two favorite books by Sandra Brown are The Witness and Exclusive, this book runs a close second in the suspense, with a little bit of romance thrown in, category.<br />Hammond Cross is a county solicitor with aspirations  of becoming the next District Attorney in Charleston, South Carolina.  And,  he should, because he is honest and ethical -- two traits that should be  sought after in this position.  Hammond's semi-downfall in this book is his  attraction to the beautiful Dr. Alex Ladd who unfortunately is suspected in  the murder of Lute Pettijohn, a wealthy, local businessman.  Hammond and  Alex spend an unbelievable night together and that night of  &quot;passion&quot; becomes Alex' &quot;alibi&quot;.<br />Other characters  enter into this scenario especially Steffi Mundell -- who wants to be the  next county prosecutor, Rory Smilow -- the chief detective and ex-brother  in law of the murdered man and Hammond's own father who had some  disreputable dealings with Lute Pettijohn himself.  While many of the  characters could have reasons of their own for killing Lute, the prime  suspect is still Alex Ladd.  Hammond Cross can't believe this is true and  sets out to prove that someone he feels this strongly about could not  possibly be a murderer.<br />Sandra Brown weaves a tale of corruption, romance  and tension.  You'll be on pins and needles until the conclusion of this  novel.	2000-06-18
US	53006770	R37NLRNTV96SWA	0689121768	448581626	Lily Beach	Books	5	2	2	N	N	FIELDS IS A TALENTED AUTHOR TO SAY THE LEAST	Jennie Fields is the author of one of my favorite books, Crossing Brooklyn Ferry.  As soon as I finished that book, I checked to see if she had written anything else and came upon this title.  The jacket cover didn't  exactly scream for me to read this book as it describes &quot;how it takes  place in the '60's and Lily has discovered that sex is a Pandora's  box&quot; but I wanted to see if Fields was a one-book wonder or if I had  truly found another author that I would loyally follow.<br />From the first  page until the last, I loved everything about this book.  Fields' portrayal  of Lily as a brooding, gifted, Bohemian artist draws the reader into her  life where women are not her friends but men are unexplicably drawn to her.  It follows Lily's life through her marriage, motherhood and what finally  frees her from the secrets she has lived with.  All the characters in this  book are richly depicted.  You will fall in love with Lily Beach and root  for her to find that place within herself where she can find happiness.  Jennie Fields is definitely the author to take you there.  I can't wait for  her to come out with another book.	2000-06-18
US	53006770	REM7VQ6CRWHE3	0374281947	375817200	Personal Injuries (Scott Turow)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	HATS OFF TO THE BAD GUY	I hadn't read a Scott Turow book since the famed Presumed Innocent, so I didn't know what to expect.  One thing Turow does in this book is to make you root for the lawbreaker -- in this case Robbie Feaver, who has been  bribing judges in order to get favorable decisions.  I usually hate this  type of character but Turow has a way of making him so believable and  almost justified in the way he goes about his legal business.  There is  also another side to Robbie Feaver.  He is the loving, caring husband of  Lorraine who is dying of ALS.  Turow handles this aspect of the book with  great care.  Unfortunately, as in most books of this kind, Robbie gets  caught.  In this one, he goes undercover for the FBI to escape jail time in  order to continue to care for his dying wife.<br />To this reader, Personal  Injuries was almost as good as Presumed Innocent.  Replete with  considerable legal action, ingenious maneuvers and characters with many  secrets to explore, Turow leads you to a climax that will have you shaking  your head and punching the wall.	2000-06-18
US	53006770	RFIQ0970LMKBB	0684864320	690095340	Lake News	Books	4	10	11	N	N	LAKE HENRY - A GREAT PLACE TO VISIT-- A BETTER PLACE TO LIVE	This is only the second book I've read by Barbara Delinsky, the first being Three Wishes, and I definitely enjoyed this one more than the other.  The setting is a beautiful town in New Hampshire called Lake Henry, where  the residents are very protective of their own.  Lily Blake was born in  Lake Henry but left to pursue some career dreams.  She has a wonderful life  in Boston as a teacher and a part-time job in an exclusive private dinner  club playing the piano and singing.  She also has a close friend, Fran  Rosetti, who has just been elevated to Cardinal in the Catholic church.  Of  course, now that Lily's life is almost perfect, something has to come  around to destroy it.  That something is Terry Sullivan, a journalist, who  prints a damaging story of the relationship between Lily and the new  Cardinal.  The story is untrue but the damage has been done and Lily  returns in shame to her hometown.<br />The good news is that Lily finds  strength and support from her former neighbors.  She also rekindles a  friendship with John Kipling, who has also returned home to Lake Henry and  is now the editor of the local newspaper.  Together, they forge a bond and  find out that there is strength in numbers.  Was this another Thorn Birds?  Definitely not....just a good, well-written, enjoyable book.	2000-06-18
US	53006770	R1FXWZGVSMIUNR	067086871X	582723746	The Bone Collector (A Lincoln Rhyme Novel)	Books	5	91	96	N	N	WALKING THE &quot;GRID&quot; WITH LINCOLN AND AMELIA	In The Bone Collector, the first in a series featuring Lincoln Rhymes, we are introduced to probably one of the best criminalist minds that have ever been written about.  Perhaps it's because the main character, Lincoln  Rhymes, does not have the day to day trivialities that cloud up one's mind  on a daily basis.  Rhymes is a quadriplegic and can only move one finger.  He is a former NYPD criminalogist whose spine was severely injured while  working a crime scene.  Now he is confined to his townhouse apartment in  Manhattan where, with the help of some state of the art electronics and  equipment, he is still able to help the NYPD solve some gruesome  crimes.<br />Enter Amelia Sachs, a beautiful policewoman, who becomes  Lincoln's protege, possible love interest and eyes and ears on upcoming  crime scenes.  I read this book after the movie trailers were out so it was  easy to picture Denzel Washington as Rhymes and Angelina Jolie as Sachs.  Deaver is a master at explaining and detailing police procedure and is so  adept at analyzing a crime scene that by the time I was finished, I felt as  if I could &quot;walk the grid&quot; and &quot;bag the evidence&quot;.  The  homicidal maniac in this book is as evil as they come but Lincoln is able  to stay one step ahead of him.  If there is a book that can honestly be  termed a &quot;page-turner&quot;, this is it.  Upon its completion,  however, I don't know if I'll ever be able to ride in a NYC cab and, if I  do have to and I see some little toy hanging from the rear view mirror,  &quot;I'm outta here&quot;.	2000-06-18
US	53006770	R2Q83UJK8Z0MY	0399144412	950568892	The Reef	Books	4	30	34	N	N	IN SEARCH OF &quot;ANGELIQUE'S CURSE&quot;	I've only read a handful of Nora Roberts' books so I'm no expert on this master of romance.  My one complaint with most of these books is that they are very rote and mundane.  It's the same old thing everytime but with a  different setting.  Fortunately, Roberts' style and research saves this  book from becoming overly predictable.<br />The setting is the West Indies and  the quest is the search for &quot;Angelique's Curse&quot;, a jewel  encrusted amulet that has a history of bringing bad luck to the owner.  Beautiful, young Tate Beaumont is a marine archeologist, who is on her  parent's boat when she meets Matthew Lassiter, on another boat with his  family of salvage divers.  Tate is immediately smitten with the handsome,  athletic Matthew but there is no immediate &quot;happily every after  story&quot; yet.  They part ways and meet up again years later to search  for the amulet.  Behind all this is Silas Van Dyke, a ruthless businessman  who will stop at nothing to get what he wants.  He was also responsible for  the death of Matthew's father years ago and Matthew will not rest until he  evens the score.<br />The scenery is beautiful and the reader is exposed to  all the nuances of deep sea diving.  I bought this book because the jacket  cover was so beautiful and I must admit that I was not disappointed with  the written pages on the inside.	2000-06-18
US	53006770	R26GUV1NER9JWE	0316789089	760222125	The Pilot's Wife	Books	5	1	1	N	N	THE PILOT'S WIFE OR THE PILOT'S &quot;REAL LIFE&quot;	When someone says, &quot;it's too good to be true&quot;, in my estimation it usually isn't true.  So begins the story of Kathryn and Jack Lyons' idyllic life as a married couple, both with jobs they enjoy and a teenage  daughter they equally adore.  As with anything else that seems to be  perfect, something is bound to crack.  For Kathryn it begins with that late  night knock at her door that is dreaded by every wife and mother alive.  Not only does Kathryn find out that her husband, a pilot, has died in an  explosion on his aircraft;  she also subsequently finds out that he was  leading a double life.  Shreve then explores the concept of &quot;how well  do you know your mate&quot; and the ultimate question of &quot;how well do  you know enough of yourself to be able to handle this duplicity&quot;.  I  couldn't put this book down and know that I've found another new author to  add to my list of &quot;favorite authors&quot;.	2000-06-13
US	53006770	R2GISU99HDQUBJ	0471247421	648018356	Falling Leaves: The True Story of an Unwanted Chinese Daughter	Books	3	7	10	N	N	NO LOYALTY IN THIS FAMILY	It is hard not to be empathetic to Adeline Yen Mah's plight as an unwanted Chinese daughter.  Adeline's mother dies giving birth to her and thus begins her tormented life in which she is tagged as &quot;bad luck&quot;  and consequently &quot;unwanted&quot;.  Her father, who is extremely  proficient in business matters, lacks a true backbone where his children  are concerned.  Upon the death of his wife, he marries again to the  beautiful Eurasian Jeanne Prosperi, whom the children are told to call  Niang, a Chinese term for mother.  Joseph and Jeanne have two children of  their own who are the &quot;chosen&quot; ones while Adeline and her  siblings become the &quot;stepchildren&quot;.  This book chronicles her  life in China as well as her trip to America where she studies to become a  doctor.  While the story is sad, my feeling throughout was that it could be  much worse.  Her father is ruled by the despicable Niang yet manages to  send some of his children abroad for their education, paying for it in its  entirety.  Besides the problems Adeline encountered with her stepmother,  the problems she faced with her own siblings could be deemed even worse.  Since Niang was afraid that they would all eventually unite against her,  she made sure they were never loyal to each other as well.  I think this is  the part of the story that I found the most hurtful. Her siblings were her  blood yet, as hard as she tried, she couldn't even make them happy or want  her.  A truly sad tale....	2000-06-13
US	53006770	R2GSWA41I8YNRU	0613174208	10089389	One True Thing	Books	5	6	8	N	N	ONE TRUE THING -- A MOTHER'S LOVE	In the past three years, there are only three books that have brought me to tears and this was one of them.  I would also note that if I had anyone close to me that had died of cancer, I don't think I would have been able  to get through this book.  This is the beautifully told story of a mother  and daughter who learn things about each other that they never may have had  the chance to learn under different circumstances.  Unfortunately, these  circumstances are heartrending.<br />Ellen Gulden has a promising career as a  journalist;  she also has a mother who has cancer and a father who is  laying a guilt trip on her.  Ellen takes a leave of absence from her job  and moves back home to care for her mother.  What ensues is a loving story  of communication and understanding and passing of the torch from one  generation to another.  While all this is going on between mother and  daughter, there is another underlying story of a father who's not the  person his daughter thought he was.  When Ellen's mother is near death, her  family also faces the inevitable question of &quot;the right to die&quot;.  This is a complex yet thoughtful novel written by someone who was obviously  close to a situation such as this.  It is told through tearful yet  realistic eyes.  This was my second Quindlen novel but it won't be my last.	2000-06-13
US	53006770	R1837YG2H6DAX2	1573221430	414190456	The GoodLife	Books	3	5	8	N	N	THE GOODLIFE GONE BAD	This novel is based on the true story of the kidnapping of an Exxon executive in New Jersey.  Scribner delves into the minds of Theo and Colleen, the fictional kidnappers, who feel they are owed more in life than  they have been dealt.  They plan this kidnapping so that the end result  will be a huge ransom for them and consequently give them the life they  feel they deserve.  The victim is Stona Brown, an oil executive and  cut-throat businessman.  The author tells the story from 5 different points  of view so that we are given 5 different moral analogies as to why that  particular character feels justified in what they are doing.  It is hard  for me to give this book a great rating because I disliked every character  so very much.  Even the names became an annoyance to me.  Everytime I said  the name Stona, it grated on my nerves;  and his wife's name is Nunny --  what is that all about.  As we follow this story for 3 days, the thinking  of the kidnappers becomes so irrational that it is hard to get a handle on  how anyone with those thoughts could ever think they are right.  While  kidnapping is a horrendous crime, I couldn't really even root for the  victim in this book.  That is a really sad commentary on America when the  reader feels an aversion to the victim as well as the transgressor.	2000-06-06
US	53006770	RCR5VHNN4CWHX	0446522414	783041525	The Neighbors	Books	3	0	1	N	N	THE &quot;UNPLEASANT&quot; NEIGHBORS	When Kate Ashenberry, a freelance newspaper writer, returns to London, she is delighted to find such wonder accommodations in the Kensington Court apartment building.  Since Kate is on the run from a hurtful relationship  with her Argentine ex-boyfriend, Bruno, she is thrilled to now be living in  such a &quot;legendary, rock-solid building.&quot;  All is not as safe as  it appears in this stronghold of Victorian apartments, however.  One by  one, Kate's neighbors are being killed and no clues can be found.  Carol  Smith introduces us to an assortment of eccentric, peculiar and downright  obnoxious neighbors who become Kate's confidantes and friends.  Unfortunately, there are only one or two likable characters in the bunch.  Regrettably, the reader has to meander through 250 monotonous pages before  the book actually gets interesting.  While I enthusiastically read the last  100 pages, I would have preferred for the rest of the book to have been as  good.	2000-06-06
US	53006770	R3LW954BPNBO4Q	0688170528	990695172	The Pact: A Love Story	Books	5	49	60	N	N	AN AMERICAN TRAGEDY	If you've yet to read a book by Jodi Picoult, The Pact is a good place to start.  Once here, you will be introduced to a terrific author and will probably vow to read everything she has written.  This is how it was for me  when I read this book.  There are very few books that I'll read and be able  to say &quot;I absolutely LOVED it.&quot;  This was one of those rare books  that I was able to say those words.  This story tracks the lives of two  American families, the Hartes and the Golds, living on a cul de sac and  raising their kids together.  Chris Harte and Emily Gold were born just  weeks apart and spent most of their childhood playing together.  Of course,  it was each family's dream that they would grow up and eventually fall in  love giving credence to the &quot;happily every after story&quot;.  As we  follow Chris and Emily through their childhood into their teen years, we  share the same dreams as the parents and are delighted when the two finally  find their friendship becoming one of intimacy.  When Emily dies of a  gunshot wound, there are plenty of questions to be answered and what  follows will keep you spellbound.  This is a book that any parent of a teen  can relate to and also should be suggested reading for teens themselves.  This book screams to be an Oprah pick...it's that good and even better.	2000-06-06
US	53006770	R2PP4IGRDMHF95	0345443284	471049102	While I Was Gone (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	172	186	N	N	A WORTHWHILE READ -- A GOOD OPRAH PICK	When Oprah announced this as her latest pick, I was happy because this book has been sitting in my bookcase for over a year waiting for me to read it.  I finished it in two days and was happy I finally had the impetus to  read a Sue Miller offering.  She is a gifted and talented writer but in  this book she gives you a main character, Jo Becker, who you love at times  and want to strangle at others.  It's terrible to say but during the book I  kept saying to myself, &quot;what a jerk she is.&quot;  I know that's not a  great descriptive word but it fits.  This is a character who always thinks  there is something better around the corner and although she's been married  for 25 years, wanderlust is lurking around every corner.  While devoted at  times (to animals), I found her shallow both in the way she treated her  husband's profession as well as her daughters.  Over the years, Jo had  lived a kind of quirky lifestyle and 25 years later, an old friend comes  back into her life and wreaks havoc.  The unfortunate thing is that it  didn't have to be this way but wonderful Jo allowed it to be.  For anyone  who has lived through the 60's or even thought about free, communal living  and is now living in just the opposite lifestyle, you will probably find  this book as page-turning as I did.  I felt that I was rushing the book  because I wanted to see how it would end.  This is not your typical Oprah  dysfunctional family book set in the South -- rather it is set in the North  but a bit dysfunctional all the same.  Definitely worth the read.	2000-05-30
US	53006770	R3025GWG10SXKM	0684853620	474309743	The Strangeness of Beauty: A Novel	Books	3	13	17	N	N	IS BEAUTY REALLY STRANGE?	This novel, which spans from 1922 to 1939 in both America (Seattle) and Japan, attempts to tell the I-story (Japanese for autobiography) of Etsuko Sone -- a woman who has seen much sadness by the time she is in her  twenties.  Through her I-story, we learn that she was given away at birth  by her mother Chie who is in a serious state of depression after losing her  first born son in infancy.  Etsuko is brought up by a farming family and  when she learns of her true heritage, in the House of Fuji, it is her  decision to remain with the parents who have raised her and not to return  to her biological mother.  Love brings Etsuko to Seattle where she is  subsequently followed by her sister Naomi who intends to marry the man she  loves in Seattle.  All is well until Naomi dies in childbirth and Etsuko is  left to raise and love Naomi's daughter Hanae.  All Etsuko has ever wanted  in life is to be a good wife and a good mother.  The following years will  show Etsuko's desire to be the best mother for Hanae as well as trying to  reconnect with the mother who gave her away at birth.  Her mother, Chie,  will eventually teach her to find her own purpose in life and not to depend  on someone else for her happiness.  Therein lies the &quot;strangeness in  beauty&quot; -- turn your uncertainty into adventure and know that beauty  can be found in what's common and small.	2000-05-29
US	53006770	R4VDNCI0K4CC5	0525942238	872593606	We Were the Mulvaneys	Books	5	4	4	N	N	JOYCE CAROL OATES -- MY NEW FAVORITE AUTHOR	After I finished what I would consider to be a masterpiece, I said to myself, &quot;where the heck have you been that this is the first book you've  read by this author.&quot;  It took only 2 pages to hook me in.  You know the feeling you get when you know right off the bat that you're  going to love the book you just started -- that's how I felt with this one.  The characters are so alive and you want more than anything for everything  to be all right.  You read each page with fearful expectation because you  know it can't be.  Oates has the ability of leading you to the end of the  road but right before you get there she changes courses so that you still  have to wait to see what's at the end of that road.  To see the  all-American dream family fall apart right before your eyes is somewhat  depressing but it's also gratifying in the sadistic sense.  The reaction of  the father to the family tragedy was hard to believe but the reaction of  the mother and the way she handled it was almost sinful.  I wish I could  remember the exact quote but somewhere in the book she refers to her  husband as her &quot;firstborn&quot; instead of her &quot;first love&quot;.  Therein lies the true tragedy of We Were The Mulvaneys.  Get this book for  the summer and you'll have something you'll always remember the summer of  2000 for.	2000-05-24
US	53006770	R26HWCUMGQ2T1Z	0385495846	437097764	Demolition Angel	Books	5	15	16	N	N	DEMOLITION ANGEL OR DEVIL?	OK -- I'm another reviewer wishing this was an Elvis Cole book and immediately disliking Crais' female protagonist Carol Starkey right from the beginning.  She's adversarial and has more demons of her own than she  knows what to do with.  Somewhere, midway through the book, she becomes  more vulnerable and consequently more likeable to this reader.  Carol  Starky is with the bomb squad in LA when she and her partner/lover are  victims of a bomb blast that kills him and puts Carol in the hospital for  54 days.  Now, 3 years later, she is a bomb investigator and is  investigating the death by bomb of another friend and bomb squad  technician.  Her mind is very keen as she unravels one clue after another  amazing the reader page after page.  Everyone thinks that this bomb has  been planted by a serial bomb-for-hire specialist, Mr. Red.  Carol is not  so sure about this and sets out to find out if Mr. Red is involved.  While  she is investigating him, he becomes fascinated by Carol which could turn  up deadly for her.  My one complaint about this book is that Crais never  gives you a description of Carol until after page 200 where he tells you  that she is tall and athletic -- nothing more.  Other than that, your guess  is as good as mine.  So even though this isn't another Elvis Cole  masterpiece by Crais, he does prove once again that if you're a great  author, it doesn't matter who your main character is.	2000-05-23
US	53006770	RWMQWT44QQ5W3	0613033191	795266779	The Deep End of the Ocean	Books	5	4	6	N	N	DOESN'T GET DEEPER THAN THIS	I bought this book when Oprah picked it as her first book of the month but held off reading it because of the subject matter -- a kidnapping of a child.  When I finally got around to reading it, I couldn't put it down.  I  felt that Mitchard captured the mother's feelings beautifully.  Every  character in the book had their own baggage to deal with after Ben's  disappearance especially his brother Vincent who was responsible for  watching Ben as his mother checked into the hotel.  Fortunately when I read  this book, the movie wasn't out yet so I didn't have the movie trailers  ruining the ending for me.  I, for one, was unbelievably surprised and  cried and cried and cried.  What a story!	2000-05-16
US	53006770	R10DHGMLOT11ZN	0393048063	948389152	The Summer of '39	Books	5	3	3	N	N	WHEN EVIL PREVAILS	I wish there were half star ratings because I would really give this book 4 1/2 stars -- I reserve 5 stars for only the best of the best -- but I would be doing this book an injustice to only give it 4 stars and thus the  5 star rating. Prior to reading this book, I knew nothing of Robert Graves  and his relationship with the poet Laura Riding. I'm glad I didn't because  this book was such a surprise to me. It is so well-written and you turn  each page with such dread knowing that something bad is going to happen but  not knowing exactly what it is.  Seymour's fictionalization of Grave's and  Riding's visit to America during the summer of 1939 is masterful.  She's  taken the liberty of including some things that add to the understanding of  each character.  Throughout this book, I was behind Nancy Brewster 100%  hoping above hope that all would turn out well for her.  The author has  done such a wonderful job of turning fact into fiction that I will always  believe in my heart that this is truly the way it happened.  I recommend  reading this book to find out for yourself how powerful evil can be and if  it can be humanly overcome.	2000-05-16
US	53006770	R15KW7B92OECKM	0671013920	285378300	Gatekeeper	Books	4	7	7	N	N	SURPRISED SHELBY DOESN'T HAVE MORE OF A FOLLOWING	I was first introduced to Shelby when his first book, Days of Drums was touted by People Magazine.  I bought it, enjoyed it and have since purchased Shelby's books as soon as they come out. He seems to stay true to  his theme of the female heroine -- sometimes naive, but never, never  stupid.  In his first two books, his heroine was Holland Tylo.  In this  one, he kept the same four letters in the first name and gives us Hollis  Fremont but towards the end of the book reintroduces us to his favorite  heroine, Holland Tylo, once again.  Hollis Fremont has four men in her life  in Gatekeeper.  Unfortunately, only one of them is ethical and the other  three are even beyond being unethical -- they are disreputable and devious  as well.  Hollis gets enmeshed with a counter-terrorist group called Omega  and danger follows.  Another reviewer thought this ending was  predictable....I didn't.  It kept me turning the pages until the end.	2000-05-12
US	53006770	R3E3O5V3U3RRFP	0446519723	17564972	Where the Heart Is: A Novel	Books	4	0	2	N	N	GOOD, LIGHT READING	Billie Letts' cast of characters in Where The Heart Is are so endearing.  Each is quirky in their own way but so very loving except maybe for Willie Jack who I disliked immediately.  I loved the Wal Mart references and I'm  sure the Wal Mart company loved them even more.  I would have given this  book 5 stars but I felt it got bogged down 3/4 of the way through.  If  you're looking for a nice, easy, get away from it all read, then this book  might be the ticket.	2000-05-05
US	53006770	R13SN8663QJEC	006103049X	263846926	Mary, Mary: A Novel	Books	2	2	2	N	N	WHY IS MARY, MARY SO CONFUSING?	I have to say that I didn't like this book from the start but plowed through it because there were so many 5 star reviews here that I thought I was probably missing something.  Believe me, I wasn't missing  anything....it's just not that great.  I read 200 pages before it even  began to get remotely good and by that time I just wanted to be done with  it once and for all.  The author's writing style is very confusing using  numerous flashbacks, which I don't usually mind, but using them in back to  back paragraphs so you get to the point where you didn't even know if it  was NOW or THEN or exactly WHO she was referring to. She also would start a  new chapter and for the first few pages, you had no idea who she was  talking about and once you found out, you would have to go back and start  the chapter again. This is also one of the first books where I had no  sympathy for the main character, the mother whose daughter Mary has just  been murdered. I also had no sympathy for the victim and I still can't  explain the reason why.  Perhaps the author should have made me feel sorry  for her or perhaps she didn't want me to.  Who knows?  My other complaint  was the setting of Ireland....why did I never really get the feeling I was  in Ireland...except for the pubs, I kept thinking I was in Britain.  I know  others have compared this author to Rendall and Walters (both of whom I  love)...in my estimation, there's no comparison to be made. I guess you can  deduce that I won't read another book by this author.	2000-05-01
US	53006770	RG2Z3885JBKA1	0688145892	851931786	Crossing Brooklyn Ferry	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A DEFINITE SURPRISE TO ME	I bought this book for all the wrong reasons.  #1.  Because my best friend from high school lived in Park Slope, the setting of this book.  #2.  Because it had Brooklyn in the title.  #3.  I felt nostalgic just looking at the cover.  What a surprise it was to me when I finally got around to  reading it.  A thoroughly enjoyable love story (not gushy at all) with  terrific descriptions of living in a &quot;neighborhood&quot; and all that  that brings with it.  It ended up to be one of my top 10 picks in '98.	2000-04-26
US	53006770	R3QBTRWHC9T835	060960287X	47655853	The Chimney Sweeper's Boy	Books	4	3	7	N	N	AN INCREDIBLE MORAL DILEMMA	This was my first Barbara Vine book and I must admit that I hated the first 50 pages and almost put it down.  I could not find one redeeming quality in any of the characters.  I'm glad I continued because it was one of my favorite reads of '98 in this genre. I have since ordered all of  Vine's books and even some of those that she wrote as Ruth Rendall.  I felt  that the plot was intricately woven especially how it tied into the title  of the book.  I can guarantee that you won't be disappointed with this  choice.	2000-04-26
US	53006770	R1L1GI0M93YOJP	0060987510	195525767	These Is My Words: The Diary of Sarah Agnes Prine, 1881-1901 Arizona Territories	Books	5	92	93	N	N	TRANSPORTS YOU BACK IN TIME VIA COVERED WAGON	This is a book that I would never have picked out on my own but I'm so thankful that it was recommended to me by a poster on one of the book boards.  Just the cover alone makes the purchase worthwhile.  I especially  liked the way Nancy Turner wrote this book in the form of a diary which is  written over the course of 20 years.  The two main characters, Sarah Prine  and Captain Jack Elliott, are larger than life.  She's smart, great with a  gun and stubborn.  He's ornery, romantic and loves her more than life  itself.  What a match and what a book.  I recently recommended this to my  book group and they've been raving about it ever since.  My only  disappointment is that I had to finish it.	2000-04-25
US	53006770	R15TPGH8ZPY0RV	0394563492	303723286	A Civil Action	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A TRUE STORY THAT READS LIKE FICTION	Although I'm not usually a reader of non-fiction, many of my friends insisted that I read this book. The fact that the movie was coming out prompted me further.  I can't tell you how much I loved this book.  Even though it's 500 pages, it goes fast.  There are times I wanted to punch  everyone standing in the way of attorney Jan Schlictmann.  You meet some  sad people in this book, primarily the leukemia victims of Woburn,  Massachusetts but sadder still the members of that &quot;old boy's club of  Harvard&quot;.  Harr's writing of this appalling occurrence is nothing  short of masterful.  My hat is off not only to the author for this  extraordinary undertaking but to the attorneys who made an incredibly true  story seem so unbelievable that one could realistically believe it had to  be fiction.	2000-04-25
US	53006770	R25LJ1SNJM0JJE	0694522511	694565872	Daughter of Fortune	Books	5	9	10	N	N	AUDIO REVIEW -- COULD EVEN BE BETTER THAN THE BOOK	Blair Brown's reading of Allende's Daughter of Fortune is absolutely superb.  I'm always amazed when a reader takes on the task of making an audiotape of a book that is replete with many different accents.  Blair's  interpretation is a delight but be prepared to spend a lot of time  listening to this unabridged version -- many, many cassettes included.  It's definitely worth it though.	2000-04-25
US	53006770	RGXBYW8LXSFXG	0440224624	117143822	The Loop	Books	4	1	2	N	N	WILL HAVE YOU ROOTING FOR THE WOLVES ALL THE WAY	I was one of those readers who thoroughly enjoyed The Horse Whisperer so I anxiously awaited Evan's next book.  I was not disappointed.  It's nice for a change to be reading about nature and its elements and different parts of the animal kingdom.....in this book the dreaded wolf.  I found out that the  wolf is now an endangered species and it is against the law to kill.  The  setting for this book takes place in a town called &quot;Hope&quot;;  unfortunately there's no hope for the wolves until Helen Ross arrives to  try to fix the wolf situation as it pertains to the cattle being killed.  It's more than midway through the book before you learn what a loop is.  This is when you will cheer for the wolves to get away.  Some readers might  even enjoy this one more than Horse Whisperer.  In my estimation, they are  both great reads.	2000-04-25
US	53006770	R1KF4GRVD8LMF9	0679426140	293874514	Welcome to the World, Baby Girl!: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	BEAUTIFULLY WRITTEN STORY OF ANGUISH AND HAPPINESS	This is the first book I have read by Fannie Flagg and quite honestly, I wasn't expecting much.  Actress turned Author aren't usually the credentials I'm looking for when picking out a book so you can imagine how incredibly pleased I was with the talent behind the writing of this book. I  enjoyed Flagg's ability to take us from the present back to the past and  further back at times;  always returning to the present once again.  Although some have expressed their dislike for the main character Dena, I  found her to be so very real.  While others liked Gerry, I found him rather  bland but much can be said for a man who idolizes you above all others.  I  was lost with the Tennessee Williams scenario and sometimes feel that  authors have a scene in mind to place in a book and they are going to get  it in there no matter what. Dena and her descendants have lived tragic  lives at times and I was happy to see that someone found happiness.  I have  since gone and purchased the other two books by Flagg that many of the  other reviewers of this book have mentioned.  I look forward to two more  good reads by this author -- Fried Green Tomatoes and Daisy Fay.	2000-04-24
US	53006770	R2FTTH85QIIJ94	0684848783	223960215	'Tis: A Memoir	Books	5	6	7	N	N	PICKS UP WHERE ANGELA'S ASHES LEFT OFF	I couldn't wait for this long awaited sequel of Angela's Ashes to finally be published and I certainly wasn't disappointed.  OK, it's no Angela's Ashes but it's still a great read.  Part of the beauty of Angela's Ashes was the fact that it was so different....unlike anything I had ever read  before.  McCourt's humor in describing an incredibly stressful childhood in  dire conditions was something I'll never forget.  By the time we get to  'Tis, he is 19 and arriving in America to find the American dream.  His  sincerity and humor still shine through in this sequel.  If you loved  Angela's Ashes, you'd be hard-pressed not to like this one.	2000-04-20
US	53006770	R1X2KM3JDW5V34	0446673218	38570142	The Gold Coast	Books	5	0	1	N	N	WORTH ITS WORTH IN GOLD	DeMille is a master at keeping you riveted to a book while thewhole world continues functioning without you.  While I've only readthree or four of his books, he has yet to disappoint me.  I wasparticularly drawn to this book because of the locale -- the gold coast of Long Island where old money rules and the descendants of this old money, who have inherited these estates, can't even afford to live in them.  You can just imagine what happens when the don of the largest Mafia family in New York moves in next door to one of Lattingtown's long time residents.  This is my favorite DeMille so far.  END	2000-04-19
US	53006770	R1J825QZBEIBDS	0679450432	835692581	Dark Lady	Books	3	3	3	N	N	NOT ONE OF MY FAVORITES	Richard North Patterson is one of my favorite authors in the mystery/thriller genre but he definitely disappointed me with this one.  Who is Stella Marz?  You find out...but you never really find out what makes her tick because Patterson is not great at writing from a woman's perspective.  He should definitely stick with the male protagonists where he definitely excels.  I  look forward to his next book since this one did not cut it for me.	2000-04-19
US	53006770	R1X2ND7GS3XBA8	0375504036	46292343	Big Stone Gap	Books	1	9	22	N	N	Boring, Boring, Boring	I don't know how any reader could give this book a five star rating.  I was hoping it would get better as I kept reading but it didn't.  It is so predictable and the characters aren't drawn out at all.  The key parts in the book are thrown out at you with no preparation at all. ( )	2000-04-18
US	53006770	R30OQZWGAFY9TH	0385491832	352044771	Motherless Brooklyn	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A BROOKLYN SCREAMING FOR LOVE	For those of you looking for a great mystery book, this isn't the one. While there is some detective work going on and a murder to be solved, this is just the background to a bigger and better story. Lionel Essrog, the narrator of the story, has suffered with Tourette's Syndrome his whole life. Not that it has been much of a life....when we meet him he is an orphan living in the St. Vincent's Home for Boys in Brooklyn. He and three other orphans become Minna's Boys, running errands for Frank Minna a local crime boss. Essrog's Tourette's tics become endearing to the reader and when he is ticcing off the names of the people in the group and is trying to come up with a total of 6 (his tic number for the day), he is unable to do so. With Frank Minna and the 4 orphans it only adds up to 5. But Lionel hasn't added in the biggest character in the group -- BROOKLYN. Lethem's descriptions of Brooklyn are unparalleled. Everything takes place at the foot of a bridge or in a storefront or at 5AM when the merchants are just waking up. As he's driving over the Pulaski Bridge, I'm right behind him. I'm not sure if someone who isn't familiar with Brooklyn would like this book as much as someone who has strong ties to this borough. Jonathan Lethem describes these orphans as part of &quot;Motherless Brooklyn,&quot; children living in Brooklyn without mothers. I'm sure it's intentional on his part that after finishing this book, the reader gets the feeling that it is Brooklyn who really needs a mother -- it's a city without nurturing or love. It's screaming out not to be motherless any longer.	2000-04-17
US	53006770	RC2UK20KCTZU1	0385500769	305678170	A Map of the World (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	2	1	1	N	N	GUILTY UNTIL PROVEN INNOCENT	The only successful thing about this book is that it proves thenew trend in America that you are &quot;guilty until proveninnocent&quot; as opposed to &quot;innocent until proven guilty.&quot; Other than that, I found it boring, boring, boring.  Oprah must have a personal friendship with Hamilton since she's picked two of her books for her book of the month club.  I didn't like the first pick, Book of Ruth either so I probably should have just let this one go.  Instead I ploughed through 390 pages of characters who are all victims with the saddest victim being the husband Howard.  I think I'll pass if Oprah picks another Hamilton book.  END	2000-04-15
US	53006770	R16ARJD43XE3OX	0312952716	231403284	A Simple Plan	Books	5	1	1	N	N	IT DOESN'T GET MUCH BETTER THAN THIS	I actually had to take a morning off from work just to finish this book.....I was so hooked on it and had to know how it ended.  Two brothers and a friend find a small plane that has crashed  in an isolated field.  Upon some investigation, they find 4.5 million dollars inside. Now they  have to figure out how to keep the money without anyone finding out and,  more importantly, how to keep their mouths SHUT.  I hate to use the much  used phrase page-turner but there is nothing else to describe this book  more accurately.  I will readily admit that parts of the book are  disturbing and the author may have gotten a bit carried away and maybe  that's why I liked it so much....he went that extra mile.  If someone said  to me to recommend a book that they won't be able to put down, this is  definitely the one.	2000-04-15
US	53006770	R1FMCFHXWDFW3W	0525941673	114681625	Cavedweller	Books	4	0	1	N	N	SURPRISED IT'S NOT AN OPRAH PICK!	When I began this book, I didn't think I would enjoy it as much as I did.  I found I couldn't put it down.  Allison's character development is unparelleled.  Even in the last chapter, you're still learning about what  makes these people tick.  I'm surprised it's not an Oprah pick because it  has the mandatory struggling woman but much, much more.  There is one part  towards the end of the book that had me so scared my heart was beating  faster and faster.  A great story in my opinion.	2000-04-15
US	53006770	R21QX6Q4GWF4FV	0688143806	380093282	Darkness, Take My Hand	Books	5	11	12	N	N	ANOTHER TOP-RATE LEHANE	If you like to read mysteries, you would be hard-pressed not to love Lehane's Patrick and Angie combination.  These two characters are so alive on the pages that you feel like you're with them every step of the way.  This book is Lehane's usual page turner filled with the lowlifes of the  world.  As Angie says in the book, &quot;I'm tired of dealing with  psychotics and deadbeats and scumbags and liars on a continual basis.  I'm  starting to think that's all there is in the world.&quot;  This is the crux  of Lehane's writing.  He writes about people who embrace evil and enjoy the  pain of others (this also taken from the book).  Patrick actually falls in  love in this episode. My feeling is that Dennis Lehane is an absolute  standout in this genre.	2000-04-15
US	53006770	RFDPT7M2WA2RE	0375504036	46292343	Big Stone Gap	Books	2	10	17	N	N	BIG STONE GAP HAS SOME GAPS	At best, this book could be compared to a substandard Lavyrle Spencer offering.  The story is weak and the character development is non-existent.  While the description of the town is delightful and the visit by Liz  Taylor quite humorous, the rest of the story is lacking.  Anyone who is  giving this book 5 stars must be a friend of the author or has lived in  this area and enjoys reminiscing.  I originally purchased this book because  I heard Carolyn Rhea, of Sabrina fame, tauting it on the Regis and Kathie  Lee show as one of the &quot;best books she has ever read.&quot;  I waited  until the last page for it to become one of the best books I ever read.  IT  NEVER DID.  I guess I wasn't surprised to read in the  &quot;Acknowledgements&quot; at the end of the book that the author thanked  Carolyn Rhea -- obviously they are friends.  Need I say more.....	2000-04-15
US	53006770	R22PDYE2KW2OBF	0312155336	452895557	Further Lane: A Novel (Beecher Stowe and Lady Alex Dunraven Novels)	Books	2	1	1	N	N	FURTHER LANE ISN'T FAR ENOUGH AWAY FOR ME	I grew up in New York and often spent summers in the Hamptons so I thought this would be a fun romp for me through my old stomping grounds with some moviestar names thrown about.  Not only was this book tedious;  it was  DULL.  It reminded me of Sander's McNally series but instead of Palm Beach,  Florida as the setting, we have the Hamptons.....another place where old  money or lack of old money rules.  While Beecher Stowe and Alix Dunraven  have some promise, the story didn't.  I bought this book based on a People  Magazine recommendation that it would be a &quot;good summer read.&quot;  It wasn't.	2000-04-15
US	53006770	R3T2BLDGV034D6	0688145892	851931786	Crossing Brooklyn Ferry	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A SURPRISE TO ME	I have to admit that I purchased this book 1)  because my best friend from high school lived in Park Slope 2)because it has Brooklyn in the title and that's where I grew up 3) I felt nostalgic just looking at the cover.  What  a surprise it was to me when I finally got around to reading it.  A  thoroughly enjoyable love story with terrific descriptions of living in a  &quot;neighborhood&quot; and all that that brings with it.  It ended up to  be one of my top 10 picks of the year.	2000-04-15
US	53006770	R2R7O2QM5CIUIX	0789205866	332924017	Reading Group Journal: Notes in the Margin	Books	4	13	13	N	N	FINALLY -- AN ACTUAL READING JOURNAL	It's amazing to me that no one has yet to publish a reading journal that actually has enough room to write a review of a book.  This journal has finally done it.  It has plenty of pages to put your favorite quotes from  the book, a page for group discussion questions and two pages for notes or  reviews.  My only complaint is that it can only be used for 18 books.  That's OK if you're really only using it for a reading group journal  because most groups pick one book a month but if you want to use it as your  regular reading journal and you read in excess of 18 books a year, you're  out of luck.  I'd like to see this book have space to record 75 books and  forget about all the other stuff that's included.	2000-04-09
US	53006770	R2YI64W0IED1W4	0684874350	698161422	Angela's Ashes (The Frank McCourt Memoirs)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	MY ALL-TIME FAVORITE BOOK	Everytime I think of this book, I actually get the chillsbecause I loved it so much. McCourt's descriptions of not onlyLimerick but also of Brooklyn were wonderful.  While I don't usually like humor in my books, I loved McCourt's humorous writing style.  No one tells a story like Frank McCourt.  It's so from the heart.  Now the fact that I'm part Irish, lived in Brooklyn and am Catholic probably added to my enjoyment of this book.  I do know that everyone I've recommended it to has loved it as much as I did.  END	2000-04-08
US	53006770	R2N7CG9RSIORB3	0684859467	522933179	Apologizing To Dogs	Books	3	12	13	N	N	DAY TO DAY HAPPENINGS ON WORTH ROW	Although the characters were quirky and a bit eccentric, I just couldn't get into the day to day activities of the 12 homes/storefronts that remain on Worth Row.  Effie, the 71 year old snoop, keeps a diary of everyone's  comings and goings.  There are more secrets going on here than on any soap  opera on the air today.  The fact that this title had the word  &quot;dog&quot; in it is what drew me to it.  Too bad there wasn't more of  the dog and less of the other characters.	2000-04-08
US	53006770	R39794BA4AMCX5	0671016784	12366720	Gravity	Books	5	3	4	N	N	GERRITSEN IS A MASTER OF MEDICAL THRILLERS	While the subject topic, space travel, is not on the top of my list, I was immediately engrossed by the lastest book by this gifted author.  I have only read one other of Gerritsen's books, Bloodstream, and this one is just  as good. She doesn't seem to disappoint her readers. She does an enormous  amount of research with each book and it shows.  I had no idea how much  money companies are willing to pay to get their experiments included on  these space shuttles.  Unfortunately in this book, it is an experiment gone  bad.  This work is replete with a rescue mission, payload experiments,  scary viruses and even a love story.  If you like medical thrillers, add  this one to your list.	2000-04-08
US	53006770	RNLHO8NI09V0P	0151972036	79109568	Winter's Tale	Books	4	7	8	N	N	THE COLDEST COLD I EVER IMAGINED	I don't think I've ever read a book where the descriptions were so very perfect.  When Helprin describes cold in New York, it's like nothing I've ever experienced.  When the year 2000 began, I wanted to be reading a book I would always remember and someone recommended this one.  It was the  perfect book to begin on January 1st since it was very cold outside and  also because parts of this book take place when the clock turned twelve in  the year 1900 and the book ends as we are approaching the year 2000.  While  mystical realism usually is not my thing, you have to fall in love with  some of these larger than life characters and be afraid of some of the  others called shortails.  There is one miracle that occurs in the book and  it has to do with a character named Virginia.  I can't help but wonder if  Helprin used this name on purpose as in the Christmas miracle story,  &quot;Yes, Virginia, there is a Santa Claus.&quot;  Definitely a  beautifully written story -- out there at times but still worth the read.	2000-04-06
US	53006770	R2NVB6INT030FV	0375405372	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha	Books	5	3	3	N	N	AUDIO REVIEW -- FANTASTIC	I read this book two years ago and it still remains one of my all time favorites.  To be able to be taken to a world that I could never even dream about and make it feel so real is quite a compliment to the author.  Having said all that, if you liked the book, you will ABSOLUTELY LOVE the audio.  The reading by English actress Bernadette Dunn with all the different  subtle accents of all the characters both male and female is nothing short  of remarkable.  How she is able to bring life to Sayuri and The Chairman  while talking about the teahouses in Gion -- believe me I thought I was  there instead of driving around in my car.  This audio is a definite must  for the true Memoirs' lovers.	2000-04-06
US	53006770	R2UKHGXK3GCVSB	0679455884	90097754	Home Town	Books	2	2	4	N	N	COULD ONLY BE A HOMETOWN FAVORITE	There is no question about it -- if you live in or around Northampton, Massachusetts, you will probably enjoy this book more than others.  To the outsider, this is a trip through Anytown, USA with some &quot;real&quot; characters who are all so borderline that you can't actually relate to any  of them.  Tommy O'Connor is the winner of the American dream award proving  that if you dream it you can achieve it.  It's hard not to be rooting for  him all the way through.	2000-04-06
US	53006770	R2RISU3SB7HR4N	1565122968	780904511	Gap Creek : The Story of a Marriage	Books	2	4	6	N	N	DOESN'T EVEN DESERVE TO BE AN &quot;OPRAH&quot; PICK	After finishing this book, my first thought was that this author must be best friends with Oprah for her to have picked it.  When I see it on the bestseller's list, I have to laugh.  It wasn't even that good....as a  matter of fact, it was boring.  I never read a book where the characters  were so un-developed. You never find out what any one individual's  motivation is for doing anything.  In marrying Hank, Julie leaves one life  of drudgery for another.  Now I understand that this was the way life was  back then but the author has the nerve to have the words, &quot;The Story  of a Marriage&quot; right under the title of the book.  If this was the  story of a marriage, then Julie should have stayed single.	2000-04-06
US	53006770	RQ0XPUSCV1L0Q	0140291091	459703484	The End of the Affair (movie tie-in)	Books	3	8	19	N	N	WOULD PROBABLY BE BETTER THE SECOND TIME AROUND	My impetus in reading this book was that I like to read a book before seeing the movie.  Since I didn't really enjoy the book, I never got around to the movie.  I definitely think this is the type of book that has to be reread because so much of the beginning of the book is confusing.  Once  into the story, however, you realize that the love triangle is not between  Sarah, her husband Henry and her lover Maurice but between Sarah, Maurice  and God.  This kind of hit me like a ton of bricks because I felt it came  out of left field.  Considering that the book was written in 1951, it has  withstood the test of time.  There are very few indications which would  lead one to believe that almost 50 years have passed since its publication.  I read somewhere that when this book was published, it was considered  scandalous.  In today's time, I found it boring.  Since the God thing  really threw me, I did some research into Graham Greene only to find out  that he was born in 1904 and was baptized a Catholic in 1927 after  apparently meeting and falling in love with the Catholic Vivienne.  I knew  that there had to be a connection between this book and the author's real  life.  I would liken this book to the movie The Sixth Sense.  Anyone who  has seen this movie would probably like to see it again just to see the  clues they missed along the way.  It's the same thing with this book -- I  went back after finishing it and everything seemed to fall into place.  Throughout the book Sarah keeps referring to YOU with capital letters.  I  thought she was referring to Maurice but, of course, she was referring to  God.  Did I like this book?  Probably not.  Would I like it better the  second time around?  Most definitely.  &quot;Eternity is said not to be an  extension of time but an absence of time&quot;, Graham Greene -- End of the  Affair.	2000-04-02
US	53006770	R17TOHHFV5LCUA	0670894184	334925003	Back Roads (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	AN ABSOLUTE TRAGEDY	Always fearful that the next Oprah pick might be the best one, I try to read them as soon as they're announced.  Back Roads is once again Oprah's typical survival against all odds type of book but I'm not sure I could  call any of these characters survivors.  They are all tragic in their own  right -- even the poor dog Elvis.  O'Dell is certainly a gifted writer  challenging the reader to dare to stop reading her book and consequently  taking the chance of never knowing how it ended.  While it was  dysfunctional at best it was also riveting.  I would have given it 5 stars  if I would have liked the subject matter a little more.  I found so much of  it disturbing but I kept on reading and have to admit, I'm glad I did.	2000-04-02
US	53006770	R25K2BV6UL4373	0375406182	963629300	Plainsong	Books	3	5	12	N	N	A SIMPLE BOOK -- SIMPLY TOLD	As a result of all the hype I had heard about this book prior to reading it, I was untimately disappointed.  If the author's intent was to write a simple story about simple characters in a simple town, then he has been  successful.  No one character jumps out at you except for Maggie who seems  to tie everyone together.  The lack of quotation marks adds to its  simplicity....this is something I enjoyed while I know other reviewers  found this less than appealing.  It was a well-written book -- just not for  me.	2000-03-31
US	53006770	R32C0NI5KQS4YF	0446603066	613487132	Guilt by Association	Books	5	17	20	N	N	MY ALL TIME FAVORITE BOOK RECOMMENDATION	I once asked an &quot;avid&quot; reader to recommend the best book she had ever read and she told me to read Guilt By Association.  She wasn't wrong.  It became my favorite recommendation to give to others who just want a  &quot;plain great read&quot;.  If you are the type of reader who likes to  read the last page first, don't ever do this with a Susan Sloan book.  Recently, on a trip to the Carribean, my daughter asked me what book she  should read on the beach.  Of course I gave her Guilt.  I sat next to her  as she was finishing it and her first response was, &quot;Oh, My God&quot;.  She, along with everyone else who has read this book, read the last page  over and over again in disbelief.  Sloan is a masterful writer who keeps  you guessing at every turn and cheering on her victim.	2000-03-31
US	53006770	R1RUNF8LAYLJMB	0515121282	810203478	Cold Shoulder	Books	4	1	1	N	N	HELLO LORRAINE PAGE	After reading about so many male protagonists, it was finally nice to meet a female.  The fact that she is a ex-police Lieutenant fighting alcoholism, drug addiction and many other demons certainly puts her in the same league  as the others.  While some readers might be put off by this, it made the  character more of a survivor in my opinion.  La Plante is an excellent  author and definitely kept me turning the pages.  The ending was a bit  convoluted but I still look forward to the next book in this series Cold  Blood.	2000-03-31
US	53006770	R18MJUYRIPRWAB	0671027646	583929400	The Christmas Box Collection: The Christmas Box, Timepiece, and The Letter	Books	5	23	24	N	N	IN THIS GENRE, THIS TRILOGY IS AT THE TOP	Having just finished The Letter, the last in this trilogy, I am sad to be saying good-bye to Mary Ann and David Parkin.  This is a love story in the truest sense of the word but not sappy at all.  In the Christmas Box, we  are introduced to Mary Ann, an elderly widow living on her own.  We meet  David Parkin, her husband, in The Timepiece which in my opinion was the  best of the three books.  In this book, they meet, fall in love and have  the perfect life until tragedy strikes.  The Letter finds them 20 years  later still trying to cope with their loss and trying to keep their  marriage together.  Evans writes, &quot;Could it be that to truly love a  thing is not to desire it, but to desire happiness for it.&quot;  This  seems to sum up this delightful series.  If you want a break from your  usual reading, you won't be disappointed.  If you want to give someone a  present they won't forget, try this one.	2000-03-31
US	53006770	RH6IGLE9A382D	0385497466	376574359	The Brethren	Books	4	7	8	N	N	COULD HAVE BEEN 100 PAGES LONGER......	This is only the second book I've read by Grisham, the first being The Testament (which was not high on my list).  So, bearing that in mind, I am no authority on Grisham and had no pre-conceived expectations when starting  this book as a die-hard Grisham fan might have.  As a result, I enjoyed it  immensely.  I thought the plot and the premise were better than average.  The characters were convincing and their motivation plausible.  Up until  the last 40 pages, I was loving this book.  When I am truly enjoying a  book, I notice that I never look to see what page I'm on, constantly trying  to figure out how many more pages I have to go.  That was the case with  this book.  The pages just flowed.  Now, I'm not stating that this is any  kind of a masterpiece....but in this genre it was satisfying to me.  This  is one of the first times, however, where I felt that the author could have  used another 100 pages to finish the book.  It's almost as if he got a call  from his publisher telling him that he needed the book tomorrow and Grisham  had to tie all the loose ends up immediately.  I found this part a total  disappointment and would have given it 5 stars otherwise.  After reading  366 pages, I felt I deserved a more drawn out and justified ending.	2000-03-26
US	53006770	R2HSVN45HHMB48	006019491X	694565872	Daughter of Fortune: A Novel	Books	5	45	49	N	N	DAUGHTER OF FORTUNE......OR MISFORTUNE	This was the first book I've read by Allende and I've since ordered other books by her.  Yes I admit I was introduced to her by Oprah and rate this as one of Oprah's better picks.  Allende has a great way of dropping subtle  hints throughout the book.  I love when an author has the ability to take  you into a foreign country and make you feel as if you've lived there  forever.  While others have posted that the characters could have been  better developed, I felt just the opposite.  I think Allende was able to  get across just what Eliza was feeling and what motivated her.  I do agree  that there were a lot of loose ends and probably the author wanted it this  way.  I wonder about the possibility of Joaquin and Eliza possibly being  brother and sister causing Joaquin to flee to California;  I wonder if Tao  and Eliza ever married;  I wonder what happened when Rose arrived in  California....and I'm sure this is just what Allende wants us to wonder  about.  I would recommend this book to anyone who likes true and believable  characters in a setting far removed from the usual.	2000-03-25
US	53006770	R3UJCNRFAM71LJ	0393046974	498826779	House of Sand and Fog	Books	4	2	7	N	N	House of Sand and Fog becomes House of Doom	This is the first book I've read by this author and his talent isobvious from the first page.  I found the writing of the two maincharacters in the first person made it easier to truly understand not only their thoughts but the motivation of these people. Enter a third person, Lester, and you know the saying....two's company, three's a crowd.  Could there be a more despicable person than this third character whose life is obviously ruled by his lack of a lust-filled marriage?  The author writes that it was like living with his sister. Well, too bad Lester.  While I felt the Iranian was wrong, I could never side with Kathy because the author would not allow you to.  Her depiction as an ex-alcoholic, ex-drug addict who finds the act of opening mail from the County Tax Collector to be mundane ruined any chance of me siding with her.  This is someone who felt sorry for herself at every turn but never did anything to make it better.  Even though this was a minor scene, it was a major one for me when she used the key to a house she cleaned in order to take a shower and rummage through the girl's drawers for a change of clothing.  Laws did not matter to these people -- they broke them if it made life more plausible for them.  END	2000-03-21
US	53006770	R1VTY8JIZYH7UK	0385333668	622480769	The Runner	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Reich Does It Again	I was first introduced to Christopher Reich when I saw him on a morning talk show touting his first book, Numbered Account.  I was immediately interested because it was a thriller involving money laundering in Swiss  bank accounts.  The thing that interested me was that Reich lived in  Switzerland for a time so his descriptions of Europe would be first-hand.  In his second book, Reich takes us on a tour of post-war Germany.  His  research is excellent combining actual historical facts with fiction.  Sometimes he's so good that I actually get the two confused and start  believing that what he has fictionalized is actually true.  In this cat and  mouse chase, the cat eventually becomes the mouse as Devlin Judge, in his  persuit of &quot;The White Lion&quot;, Erich Seuss, eventually becomes the  hunted. Seuss was responsible for a wartime massacre that killed Judge's  brother, a priest and Judge is out to avenge his murder.  My only complaint  about this book is that Judge is a mediocre protagonist and even when he  comes upon his prey, he can't capitalize on it.  He is also the worst shot  in any of the books I've read.  Reich remains one of those authors whose  books I will buy the day they are introduced and will read immediately.  For those of you who are lovers of Nelson DeMille or my other two  favorites, Douglas Kennedy and John Gilstrap, this is a book along those  lines.	2000-03-17
US	53006770	RO4ZZHL8YZTXF	0312252951	472175536	Winter of the Wolf Moon: An Alex McKnight Mystery (Alex McKnight Mysteries)	Books	5	52	53	N	N	ANOTHER COLD DAY FOR ALEX	Steve Hamilton returns with another of Alex McKnight's &quot;adventures&quot; in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan.  McKnight is abrasive and arrogant at times but has the most endearing quality about him  -- he's a real good friend.  The thing that sets Hamilton's books apart  from all the other mystery/thrillers out there is the setting.  His  descriptions of the cold weather are unparelleled.  In this book, Alex  takes a ride on a snowmobile and &quot;he isn't exactly the driver.&quot;  He ends up in the hospital a few times but readers of this series know that  you can't keep Alex McKnight down.  In the first book, A Cold Day in  Paradise, we learn of Alex' expertise in the field of baseball.  In this  book, he's a hockey goalie.  Maybe he'll be a downhill skier in the next  book.  This is a quick read and a rewarding one.  Hamilton is a terrific  writer and doesn't lose you for one minute.  He doesn't disappoint his fans  with this second book.	2000-02-11
US	53006770	R366BJZFJNDSY5	0345387651	394884897	The Cider House Rules	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Best Book I Read In '99	This is only the second book I've read by Irving and it is obvious why he stands out as an outstanding writer. His characters are wonderfully developed and he has the ability to make you feel as if you're going  through all that his characters are.  The picture he gives of the orphans  looking out the window watching the adoptive parents arrive is  heartbreaking.  I finished this book about a week ago and I miss Homer  already.	1999-12-28
US	53006770	RG0ZFIZKKG50B	0374266700	220950434	The Sopranos	Books	1	7	21	N	N	I'M IN THE MINORITY -- WORST BOOK I'VE READ THIS YEAR	I thought that not only was this the worst book I've read all year, it is undoubtedly the worst book I've ever read.  Granted, it takes awhile to get used to the speech with English words not having any endings but that was the easy part.  Not only was the book fragmented, it was confusing and totally without merit.  I could not find one redeeming quality in this piece of work and can't imagine it being a bestseller in England.	1999-10-25
US	53006770	ROFWGL944YKC8	0151002290	736668502	East of the Mountains	Books	1	0	2	N	N	Boring, Boring, Boring	Guterson's previous book, Snow Falling On  Cedars, was one of my top reads of 1998.  I waited with great anticipation for his newest book and was so disappointed.  Yes I learned alot about apples  and apple picking but the  storyline dragged and the main character was not developed enough.	1999-05-26
US	53006770	R1CP3IE4R16O6G	0553106333	14890872	Ashes to Ashes	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Hoag Never Disappoints	This is the 4th book that I have read by Hoag and she is an author who never disappoints her readers.  She continues to put out page turner after page turner.  This, her latest book, is terrific with likeable characters  especially Quinn.	1999-05-26
