US	53000124	R1KJ6MB7MRSQFF	0805076069	145341889	Bait and Switch: The (Futile) Pursuit of the American Dream	Books	4	9	11	N	N	I viewed this the opposite of Publisher's Weekly ...	This book is chilling and depressing indeed, though very well written and sprinkled with frequent humor.  I was sort of surprised however by the comment in Publisher's Weekly which said that \\"PW suspects that many of those buyers will be disappointed. Ehrenreich can't deliver the promised story because she never managed to get employed in the 'midlevel corporate world' she wanted to analyze.\\"  I never viewed that as being the \\"promised story\\" in the first place.  To me, the primary point of the book was to describe what it was like to actually try to ENTER that world in the first place rather than describing what life was like when she got there--and that she did.  In fact, I actually thought that she \\"lucked out\\" in a sense by having the bizarre, surreal experiences she did--not only did it make for more entertaining and more thought-provoking reading, but in my mind, if she HAD obtained a job right away, it would have taken away the whole raison d'etre of the book.  It would have been a completely different book in which she merely described her (presumably) boring mid-level corporate job, which probably would have been the same from day to day.  Thus, at least for purposes of writing the book, I think she was \\"lucky\\" that things worked out the way they did.  As for the reader who criticized her for not taking the \\"jobs\\" offered by AFLAC and Mary Kay, I thought those comments were bizarre.  I agree with Ms. Ehrenreich's point in that \\"jobs\\" such as these in which the employer offers no salary, no benefits, no office, no help and essentially takes no risk whatsoever can hardly be considered jobs in the traditional sense she was seeking.  In any event, it's really a pretty scary and depressing book, but one which I recommend.	2005-10-14
US	53000124	R2QNGLFUX6QWPD	0385338074	773241831	Everything Changes	Books	5	1	3	N	Y	Loved it ...	I bought this book because I really enjoyed the Book of Joe and I was not disappointed.  Mr. Tropper really is a good writer and his ability to imagine dialogue and create humor is outstanding.  My only minor peccadillo with the book is that I felt like, at certain times, such as the scene at the golf course, among a few others, he seemed to be wearing more of a screenplay writer's hat than a novelist's hat and seemed to be writing these scenes almost more for cinematic appeal.  Nevertheless, I enjoyed the book tremendously and of course recommmend it.  As a footnote, it is funny that one of the other reviewers mentioned \\"The Wishbones\\" by Tom Perotta. That is also one of my favorite novels and he is one of my favorite writers as well.	2005-10-02
US	53000124	RUXFE077XZZF	0743238281	11753879	My Old Man	Books	5	5	8	N	Y	Loved it ...	I don't have alot to say about this except that I thoroughly enjoyed reading it, right from its double-entendre title (which I presume was intentional) to the very end.  As to comments by others about how well (or how poorly) her characters were \\"drawn\\", and how likable they may or may not have been, I can only say that I found the entire journey enjoyable and I love her writing style.  Finally, while this is not really a criticism, but just an observation, I found that the book was affected the old conflict which is sometimes inherent in first-person narrative novels which relates to the dichotomy between the narrator and the writer, especially where the narrator is a deeply flawed character (such as in this case).  In other words, on one hand, the author herself obviously wants to tell a great story and to do so, she must (and in this case does) employ great storytelling skills, as well as lots of humor and insightful observations--by no means an easy thing to do.  On the other hand, the narrator through whom the author speaks, Rachael, is in many ways a total mess of a person with many \\"issues\\" to deal with.  If Rachael really had all of Sohn's gifts, one suspects that she would not have had at least some of the problems she does.	2005-07-13
US	53000124	RVWVY9OOPCEN8	1401300464	106131311	Pledged: The Secret Life of Sororities	Books	3	6	12	N	Y	Two Books in One ...	I saw this book as two books in one, one of which I found very interesting (4 to 5 stars) and one of which I hated (1 star).  The first book (which I liked) was a macro perspective on sorority life in America--that is, a profile of how they operate generally without a specific focus on any one individual.  Having gone to a college where fraternity and sorority life were almost non-existent, I found this part of the book fascinating and it taught me alot about Greek life which I didn't know previously.  I'd say that this was about 40-50% of the book.  The rest of the book, which I didn't care for at all, was a micro prespective, focusing specifically on the lives of 4 specific sorority girls, particularly their relationship with their sorority sisters and various frat boys.  Their real names, their sororities and their schools were all pseudonyms.  I found this endless discussion of who was on the out's with who, who was hooking up with who, and who was breaking up with who to be deathly dull.  It just went on and on.  And it is really not a big surprise that this portion of the book was boring: after all, despite the pseudonyms, this was real life, the author's only obligation was to report on what happened to the girls, and not necessarily to make their interpersonal relationships interesting.  Unlike a novelist, who presents facts with a road map in mind and who has a specific purpose for what he to she chooses to tell us, and who does have an obligation to make things interesting, this author was simply acting as a reporter, letting the facts fall where they may.  I understand that it might have been difficult to present the entire book only from a macro perspective, but that doesn't change the fact that when she was talking about the 4 girls ad nauseum, I lost interest quickly.	2005-05-15
US	53000124	R3IKGLK017ODYI	1594200092	686377339	Alexander Hamilton	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	Jefferson and Madison really come off badly ...	I thought that this biography was excellent.  My only criticism is that it was too long and could have been quite a bit shorter without any loss in quality.  The thing that surprised me the most however, is how badly Madison and--even more so--Jefferson come off in this book.  I am not a historian and I have not read biographies of either man so I don't know whether or not Chernow's views would be generally agreed upon by most historians or not.  If his views are correct however, I would find that rather depressing because I had previously assumed that Jefferson and Madison were right up there with Washington in terms of their overall greatness as founding fathers of America.  However, this book rudely disabused me of that view, at least to the extent based on their conduct during the 1790's during the height of Hamilton's power (as opposed to judging them by their Presidential tenures).  Particularly in comparison to Jefferson (and, to a lesser degree, Madison), Jefferson comes off as being a backstabbing little man who was parochial in this thinking and who could not match Hamilton's intellect, courage or integrity--in fact, he didn't even come close.  Even worse, Jefferson's views as to what was best for America (and, correspondingly, his fears about where Hamilton was leading the country) have proven--with the hindsight of history--to be way off the mark, while Hamilton's visions were much more farsighted and accurate precursors of what America would (and should, in the best sense) become.  Madison, by virtue of havin his feet planted firmly in his fellow Virginian's camp, also comes off as much less of a great man than was Hamilton.  I really felt sorry for Hamilton having to endure the brunt of the many scurrilous attacks upon him by Jefferson and Madison.  Thank god that Washington stuck by him.   Of course, I am assuming that Chernow's view of history is in fact the accurate view.	2005-02-24
US	53000124	R3OQUYYZXALDEC	0393047598	35486526	Ramblin' Man: The Life and Times of Woody Guthrie	Books	3	12	19	N	Y	A dissent ...(This Land is Your Land?)	I have to admit that I am in the minority in concluding that this biography was just OK, and for my purposes, not deserving of the 5-star reviews which have been bestowed upon it.  Perhaps, if I was an avid Guthrie fan and knew quite a bit about him and his life before starting this book, I might have had a different reaction, because then the book might have been useful in filling in gaps in my knowledge.  However, my knowledge of Guthrie before reading the book (and I suspect that of others as well) was only that he was a man who was hugely influential over the development and growth and 20th-century American folk music, and, not insignificantly, the man who wrote \\"This Land is Your Land.\\"  Indeed, as more or less conceded in the Introduction, that song is his most enduring accomplishment, and virtually the first sentence about him in most of his obituaries mentions that he composed it.  I have always loved that song and was very curious about its creation and how it came to be virtually one of our alternate national anthems.   <br /> <br />With that hope in mind when I bought the book, I was shocked at the unbelievably terse and cursory treatment given that song, and that is one of the primary reasons for my disappointment in the book.  Whie the Introduction does talk about the song and its importance a bit, that proved to be just a tease.  The entire rest of the book consists of less than 1 page in total in discussing the song.  On page 165, he is writing out some lyrics to the song.  Then, with virtually nothing in between, we are advised in the footnotes that \\"it is the song most likely to be remembered and sung by later generations\\" (p. 442) and that it is \\"one of the most influential songs in rock history.\\" (p. 455).  Well I for one was curious as to how the song traveled the long journey from point A (its creation) to point B (one of the most influential songs in rock history), but Cray is of no help whatsoever on this point.  In fact, he hardly discusses it at all after the Introduction. <br /> <br />A few of the many questions I had about that song before reading the book (all of which were unanswered by Cray) were:  1.  Was Guthrie ever interviewed about any aspect of the song (e.g. its creation, influence, etc.) and if so, what did he say?  2.  Did Guthrie ever write anything about the song?  3.  We are always told (as we were here) that the song was an \\"angry response\\" to Irving Berlin's \\"God Bless America\\".  If so, why is it that there is no hint of that in the verses of the song which are most commonly sung and why did he delete one of the verses that clearly was a response to Berlin (which is quoted in the Introduction)?  Also, do we know that it was an \\"angry response\\" solely from the one obscure verse of the song that is never sung, or did Guthrie ever comment about his motivations?  4.  How did the song seep into the national consciousness.  Was there some DJ somewhere who started playing it over and over?  Was there some \\"tipping point\\"?  These questions are entirely unaddressed by Cray, who, after telling us that the song was written, essentially says nothing more about it, other than to advise us at the end that it is one of the most influential songs ever.  This is just a huge void of information.  5.  Even Cray's brief discussion of the song was confusing.  We are told that \\"he borrowed the tune from the Carter Family's 'Little Darling, Pal of Mine'\\".  By \\"borrowed\\" does that mean that the music is not his and that he is responsible for the lyrics only--i.e. that he \\"sampled\\" the Carter family's song (to use current rap terminology)?  I had always thought that both the words and music were by Woody alone.  So what does Cray mean that he \\"borrowed the tune\\"?  6.  What were the financial implications of the song for Guthrie.  It seemed that he lived on the verge of poverty virtually his entire life and yet he must have received some substantial royalties from this song.  Given that Cray was fairly diligent at many points when discussing Guthrie's financial situation and income and royalties, I was surprised that there was no discussion of what this huge song meant to Guthrie financially (of course, given the almost complete absence of mention of every other aspect of this song, perhaps I shouldnt have been surprised). <br /> <br />Two other criticisms.  First, much of the book is of a \\"just the facts ma'am\\" variety with Cray painstakingly advising us of Guthrie's peripatetic movements at all times (like a travelogue) with not a whole lot of analysis in between.  Second, I got the distinct impression that Cray does not have much of a musical background, and thus, while there is alot of discussion of Guthrie's song lyrics, there is hardly any about the musicianship itself.	2004-08-18
US	53000124	R183YJ6MOZFNDR	0805073337	447498808	What Was She Thinking?: Notes on a Scandal: A Novel	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	Outstsanding	I thought this novel was superb and I congratulate the author on her wonderful prose and dialogue.  She also pulled off what I consider to be somewhat of a difficult trick in novels told in the first person--namely to like the book and yet simultaneously not like the narrator.  I say this is difficult because in a first person book, everything that you learn and everything that is being told to you is coming through the mouth of the narrator.   Thus if there is an insightful observation or a witty apercu, that is coming from the narrator.  So if you like the book, that means that the narrator has told a good story and it is logical to assume from that that you would in turn like the narrator (if nothing else because you like his or her mind for being able to tell such good story).  In this book, Barbara as NARRATOR is a very talented and admirable individual.  However, Barbara as a PERSON is something else altogether.  Not loathsome exactly, but certainly not admirable either.  Moreover, the fact that she seems fairly self-aware with regard to her own foibles and shortcomings doesn't really fix the situation.   I also thought that the title was a very clever double-entendre.  You think it means one thing for most of the story and then, by the end, we realize that it probably means a second thing as well.  Anyway, a job well done.	2004-05-31
US	53000124	R3QCN9BCKJJIXV	0060184701	683960669	Journal of the Dead: A Story of Friendship and Murder in the New Mexico Desert	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Highly recommended	I thought that this book was excellent and, as they say, could not put it down.  I thought that it was very well written AND researched and that the author was meticulously fair, giving plenty of ammunition to both those who feel that Kodikian is a stone-cold killer and those who believe that there were extreme mitigating circumstances.  As for those who criticized the author for not interviewing Kodikian, I found that criticism silly--if the guy is not going to give an interview, what can you do?  I'm sure he tried.  I did find some sloppiness in the editing.  Take for example, the issue of dates.  At various times, we are told that the killing occurred on Sunday, August 8.  However, page 113 tells us that Friday was August 4 and Saturday was August 5.  This of course impossible if Sunday was the 8th.  Then, on page 197, we are given a third possibility (albeit through a witness) that Thursday was August 6.  Obviously 2 of these 3 scenarios are wrong.  How did the editors miss this?  Finally, I have always been somewhat puzzled about the concept of a &quot;suspended sentence&quot;.  It sounds me me like a completely meaningless concept because the sentence always seems &quot;suspended&quot; into perpituity and is never actually served.  So what is the point of a suspended sentence at all? Why not just give the actual sentence?	2004-03-20
US	53000124	R2TRXINJEAOGKL	0312307756	576880802	As Cool As I Am: A Novel	Books	5	1	3	N	Y	Highly recommended	I thought that this book was excellent and I congratulate the author on a job extremely well done.  Lucy is a fascinating and memorable character, as is the entire story.  I recommend it strongly.	2004-03-17
US	53000124	R2H31RHEZV3SFA	0374226490	949571465	One Pill Makes You Smaller: A Novel	Books	3	9	13	N	Y	Relentlessly depressing	I can't recommend this book very highly not least because it was so completely sad and depressing from the first page to the last.  Save for Alice, the main characters in the book were all abhorrent individuals without any redeeming qualities whatsoever and included the obligatory drug dealer (J.D.), drug abuser (Esme), pedophile (Rabbit, J.D. etc.), crappy parents (Dean and Rain), and mean-spirited people (Faith and Hope).  And of course poor Alice gets bounced around between them like a pinball, and not surprisingly her life goes into a tailspin (and this is hardly what I would call a \\"coming of age\\" story as one reviewer put it).  I do think that the author's premise--an 11 year old girl who looked much older--made for interesting possibilities in terms of how society deals (or fails to deal well) with that kind of thing (although even here I was puzzled because most of the time the author makes her sound like a 22-year old Playboy playmate or a Barbie doll in terms of her physique, but then she tells us that Alice looked only 3 to 5 years older than 11.  There are not too many girls I know--even if they do look 14-16--who have that kind of body.)  Anyway, the point is, I was surprised where the author took her premise-i.e. setting Alice amongst these total losers in 1976.  Another thing I noticed is that the book had much more of a 1969 Woodstock-type feel to it than 1976--I realize that those dates are only 7 years apart but there is still a big difference between 1969 and 1976.  If the story had been set in the present or if there were a wider mixture of characters in the story (say, for example, some actual normal people), I would have been interested to see where that went.  Finally, I did not like that virtually the entire last third of the book is one single incredibly depressing scene in which Alice's life is essentially taken away from her.	2004-02-20
US	53000124	R1A5AEXK3DQBNN	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A few thoughts about liberal vs. conservative media ...	I am a big fan of these kinds of books and enjoy reading from both the right-wing perspective (Coulter, Goldberg, etc.) and the left-wing perspective (Franken, Moore, Eric Alterman, etc.).  I thought that this book was an excellent example of the genre.  And yet I have to say that, as to the specific issue of whether the media tilts to the right or to the left, I find authors on both sides to be persuasive.  And yet how can this be, given that they are arguing diametrically opposing viewpoints?  <br />I think it is because the two sides are not in fact making directly contradictory arguments (all appearances to the contrary).  Rather they are arguing at cross-purposes like ships passing in the night.  The argument from the left (which is particularly well argued in Eric Alterman's \\"What Liberal Media?\\" among other books) is that it is ridiculous to say that there is a liberal bias when the vast majority of commentators on TV and newspapers and especially on talk radio and on the Internet proudly profess their conservative leanings.  For example, it is probably far easier to name 10-15 self-proclaimed conservatives in the media than self-proclaimed liberals.  I think that this is a perfectly valid argument.  <br />The argument from the right however is somewhat different and frankly a bit more subtle.  They claim that it is not the media you know that is the problem--it is the media you don't know. More specifically, it is not the famous commentators who are at issue since you know where they are coming from right from the outset and there is no hidden agenda there.  Rather (at least accoring to the right) it is those (relatively) nameless, faceless people who write not the editorials but the actual news stories which appear in the news articles, which, in theory, are supposed to report \\"just the facts\\". However rather then reporting just the facts, they manage to do their own little editorializing within the context of these supposed \\"straight news\\" articles.  Thesewriters tend to lean well left of center and tend to be concentrated at the large city papers (the New York Times being the prime example, with the Washington Post and Los Angeles Times right there as well) and the writers of the newtwork news shows.  The book \\"Journalistic Fraud\\" by Bob Kohn (which focuses solely on the New York Times) provides numerous examples of how the liberal leanings of the Times may be discerned not from the editorial pages (which are fair game for any viewpoint) but rather from the sneaky ways in which the writers of the news articles surreptitiously inject their views into what are supposed to be editorial-free articles.  Although there are countless examples of how this technique is used, an oft-mentioned example would be the use of the adjectives \\"conservative\\" or \\"right-wing\\" to describe a person who is in fact conservative or right-wing, but NOT to use the adjectives \\"liberal\\" or \\"left-wing\\" to describe a person who leans equally far to the left.  <br />Thus, if the question is one of counting heads, i.e. how many KNOWN and self-proclaimed liberals vs. conservatives are there in the media (which is a perfectly fair question), then there is no way that the media can be described as liberal.  If the question is, what are the true political and social leanings of all the behind-the-scenes writers of the supposed NEWS articles in the newspapers and TV (also a perfectly fair question), then the argument for the liberal media becomes persuasive indeed even if it is somewhat harder to pin down and less easily demonstrable.	2004-01-08
US	53000124	R2LIGXF4MAFWGR	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	5	4	8	N	N	A few thoughts about liberal vs. conservative media ...	I am a big fan of these kinds of books and enjoy reading from both the right-wing perspective (Coulter, Goldberg, etc.) and the left-wing perspective (Franken, Moore, Eric Alterman, etc.).  I thought that this book was an excellent example of the genre.  And yet I have to say that, as to the specific issue of whether the media tilts to the right or to the left, I find authors on both sides to be persuasive.  And yet how can this be, given that they are arguing diametrically opposing viewpoints?  <br />I think it is because the two sides are not in fact making directly contradictory arguments (all appearances to the contrary).  Rather they are arguing at cross-purposes like ships passing in the night.  The argument from the left (which is particularly well argued in Eric Alterman's \\"What Liberal Media?\\" among other books) is that it is ridiculous to say that there is a liberal bias when the vast majority of commentators on TV and newspapers and especially on talk radio and on the Internet proudly profess their conservative leanings.  For example, it is probably far easier to name 10-15 self-proclaimed conservatives in the media than self-proclaimed liberals.  I think that this is a perfectly valid argument.  <br />The argument from the right however is somewhat different and frankly a bit more subtle.  They claim that it is not the media you know that is the problem--it is the media you don't know. More specifically, it is not the famous commentators who are at issue since you know where they are coming from right from the outset and there is no hidden agenda there.  Rather (at least accoring to the right) it is those (relatively) nameless, faceless people who write not the editorials but the actual news stories which appear in the news articles, which, in theory, are supposed to report \\"just the facts\\". However rather then reporting just the facts, they manage to do their own little editorializing within the context of these supposed \\"straight news\\" articles.  Thesewriters tend to lean well left of center and tend to be concentrated at the large city papers (the New York Times being the prime example, with the Washington Post and Los Angeles Times right there as well) and the writers of the newtwork news shows.  The book \\"Journalistic Fraud\\" by Bob Kohn (which focuses solely on the New York Times) provides numerous examples of how the liberal leanings of the Times may be discerned not from the editorial pages (which are fair game for any viewpoint) but rather from the sneaky ways in which the writers of the news articles surreptitiously inject their views into what are supposed to be editorial-free articles.  Although there are countless examples of how this technique is used, an oft-mentioned example would be the use of the adjectives \\"conservative\\" or \\"right-wing\\" to describe a person who is in fact conservative or right-wing, but NOT to use the adjectives \\"liberal\\" or \\"left-wing\\" to describe a person who leans equally far to the left.  <br />Thus, if the question is one of counting heads, i.e. how many KNOWN and self-proclaimed liberals vs. conservatives are there in the media (which is a perfectly fair question), then there is no way that the media can be described as liberal.  If the question is, what are the true political and social leanings of all the behind-the-scenes writers of the supposed NEWS articles in the newspapers and TV (also a perfectly fair question), then the argument for the liberal media becomes persuasive indeed even if it is somewhat harder to pin down and less easily demonstrable.	2004-01-08
US	53000124	R45Z41MSFCLBS	0684869403	299270934	The Wife, A Novel	Books	4	8	13	N	Y	I was troubled by the ending ...	I thought that this novel was pretty good, but I did have some problems with it.  First of all, the narrator struck me as quite a misandric (that is, man-hating) person.  One might say that it wasn't men in general, but just perhaps her own husband specifically or men in her own particular field, but I got the sense she she pretty much disliked all men, through and through.  Also I was troubled by the surprise ending for two reasons.  One is that I thought that it was unusual to have a suprise ending in a first-person narrative book.  It's as if the author is telling us a story, and in the first 98% of the story, she is interweaving all the facts of her life together with her opinions on the relationships between men and women in general and on the relationship betwen her and her husband in particular.  Then, in the last 2% of the story, she decides to add in one more significant fact that, for no discernible reason, she withheld from us for the first 98%.  (I say \\"no discernible reason\\" from the standpoint of the narrator, not from the standpoint of the actual author of the book.)  This is not, after all, a mystery novel or a whodunit.   Had the reader been made aware of this fact, it would have cast a whole different light on much of the first 98% of the book.  Some might say that this \\"Sixth Sense\\" aspect of the book of exactly one of its virtues.  However, I felt that if this woman (that is, the narrator, not the author) is telling me a story and is interspersing her views on life, on marriage, on the relationship between the sexes and so forth, I would have appreciated being dealt a full deck of cards WHILE being told the story so that I could more appropriately evaluate this woman's worldview and decide whether I not I could see where she was coming from and whether or not I could empathize or sympathize with her thoughts.  I believe, in trying to consider the author's life and life choices in retrospect, knowing what I know now, her choices seem more unwise and less understandable than they did while reading the novel.  I know that some may say that, in evaluating Joan's choices, it is important to keep history in perspective (i.e. the relationship between the sexes in the late 50's and early 60's, when Joan and Joe were still young), but I still feel that her decisions were odd given what we know by the end.  And even if one could explain away her actions as a woman in her 20's, it gets harder and harder to do so, as she becomes older and wiser.	2003-09-12
US	53000124	R2W1DBB4Y5FCMX	0385509510	418900469	Under the Banner of Heaven: A Story of Violent Faith	Books	5	32	43	N	Y	A response to the critics ...	First of all, I found this book to be fscinating and would recommend it to anyone.  As for those who gave it 1 or 2 stars, I found that virtually every one of the critics had one theme in common--they felt that Krakauer did an insufficient job of distinguishing between the Lafferty's and other Fundamentalist Saints and all of the \\"regular\\" LDS, such that readers could get the misleading impression the the Lafferty's and their ilk are representative of all 11 million LDS.  Personally, I thought that Krakauer was perfectly clear on that point and it was always clear to me that the Fundamentalist group is a kind of fringe sect that does not represent the views of all the non-Fundamentalist Saints.  However, even recognizing the distinction between the 2 groups, I had a different reason to be critical of the \\"regular\\" Saints, and that relates to Joseph Smith:<br />It would seem that if he is the founder of the Church, its original President, Prophet, Seer, etc. etc., and obviously its most esteemed figure, then it would stand to reason that ALL Saints--and not merely the crackpot Fundamentalists--would have to treat both him and his beliefs with the utmost reverence and awe.  However, Joseph Smith struck me as a sham, a fraud, a crackpot, a charlatan or whatever other synonym one may wish to call him.  Indeed, it seems that his main attribute was his immense charisma and if we were an evil man (and I'm certainly not saying that he was), he could have just as easily the Hitler or the Osama Bin Laden of his day.  He used his charisma for the same purpose that many charismatic people do, namely to cause large numbers of people to treat him as if he were practically a deity.  <br />I was particularly put off by the whole polygamy issue.  While he may have chosen to cloak the whole thing in religious terms and to tell the world that he had received another \\"revelation\\" from God, it seems clear to me that a revelation from God had nothing to do with it.  Rather, he was probably a horny young man who wanted to sleep with as many women (or, even better, young girls) as possible.  Since he didn't want to have \\"affairs\\", he tells us that God \\"revealed\\" to him that he could sleep with all these women and girls and all he had to do was to marry them.  Please!!  This guy is the founder and \\"leader\\" of the LDS?<br />As I see it, the reason I have a negative reaction to the \\"regular\\" Saints is not because I ever confused them with murderers or polygamists like the Lafferty's, but because I don't understand how they deal with the Joseph Smith issue.  If they accept him and his teacings in all respects and treat him as a quasi-deity, then I would have no respect for them because I didn't have respect for Smith himself.  On the other hand, if they don't accept him, then isn't that a flaw with the whole religion, i.e. when one doesn't accept the very person who founded your entire religion?   The middle ground solution--i.e.--we accept some of his teachings, but not all, doesn't make much sense either.  For example, it seems that the FLDS are absolutely correct in embracing polygamy to the extent that Smith embraced it himself.  However the modern LDS tell us that they reject that part of Smith's teachings.  And presumably, there are other parts that they reject as well.  However it seems to me that if your religion is going to be based on, and founded by, a flesh and blood \\"God on Earth\\" like Smith, then his followers do not really have the right to simply \\"pick and choose\\" those portions of his teachings which they like and those which they don't.  Either he was divinely inspired and was spoken to by God or he was not.  One can't have it both ways.  By contrast, I don't picture Christians as \\"selectively\\" adopting Christ's teachings.	2003-09-02
US	53000124	R2DKD1H7J5SHOI	0743218752	62682538	White Christmas: The Story of an American Song	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Absolutely wonderful	I thought that this book was just outstanding.  I would give it 6 stars if I could.  I thought that the writing was excellent (I found myself frequently flipping back a few pages just to re-read certain passages over again), and that it was endlessly fascinating.  The material on the relationship of Jews to Christmas is particularly interesting, as is the author's discussion of the myth of the &quot;recent&quot; commercialization of Christmas.  He treats both Berlin and the song itself in a clear-headed yet loving way.  I cannot recommend this little book highly enough and I congratulate (and thank) the author for a marvelously entertaining book.	2003-08-16
US	53000124	R1MUD976FFUNRQ	0786869208	887592491	The Greatest Game Ever Played: Harry Vardon, Francis Ouimet, and the Birth of Modern Golf	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Highly enjoyable	One of the things that impressed me the most about this book is how the author succeeded in practically making a novel out of this non-fiction story.  This added even more depth and drama to a story that had plenty to begin with. I mean let's face it--one has to assume that 99% of the dialogue had to be invented out of whole cloth.  There is no reason to suspect that much more than that would have been recorded for posterity.  And yet all of the dialogue seemed completely realistic.  The author not only accounted for their difference in ages (ranging from Eddie Lowery at 10 years old on up), and their difference in nationalities, but also for the fact that this was 1913 and people presumably spoke a bit differently back then.  I was also impressed by the extreme detail as to the actual golf matches themselves, not only at the 1913 U.S. Open itself but also at a number of tournments that preceded the Open.  Is it possible that every single shot which Frost describes in such detail had been recorded somewhere in the contemporary records of the era?  That seems just a little too hard to swallow.  And if so, it makes his writing all that much more impressive.  In any event, a great read.	2003-08-09
US	53000124	RWZR1BQFTGCQC	0374248583	274852501	Regarding the Pain of Others	Books	3	34	55	N	Y	Interesting points, but what is her &quot;argument&quot;?	In my experience, a non-fiction book on history, sociology or politics generally does one of two things.  It reports and/or it opines.  However, it seemed to me that this little essay, though making a number of interesting observations about war and photography, did neither. Indeed, virtually the whole time, I kept waiting for her ultimate opinion on the issue to come out.  By the end, I never saw it.  And yet, in the very first sentence of her acknowledgments (and elsewhere therein), she refers to &quot;the argument of this book.&quot;  Even after reading the laudatory reviews of this book, I couldn't tell what others perceived the &quot;argument&quot; to be either.  I am assuming that her &quot;argument&quot; has something to do with the effect that photography has on war.  For example if I had to guess (and if it turns out that I am totally off base, it wouldn't shock me), it may be that too many photos of the suffering of others may numb the senses to it and thus should be discouraged.  Or maybe, she is making the exact opposite &quot;argument&quot;--that we don't see enough such photos and thus people can't really appreciate how horrible war is.  In addition, whatever her argument, is she suggesting that we as a people do something different than what we do now, or is she simply offering neutral observations on the way of the world as it exists now?  I have no doubt that others smarter than I could answer all of these questions, but I would have appreciated a little synopsis of her self-described &quot;argument&quot; so I knew what it was.	2003-07-04
US	53000124	R3LRCPLCRPNS1C	0374236488	961531135	Positively Fifth Street: Murderers, Cheetahs, and Binion's World Series of Poker	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Outstanding.	I loved this book from start to finish.  I thought he told the story of the Binion murder trial well and the poker portion of the book was riveting as well.  Unlike some, I had no problem with the interweaving of the 2 stories,  And beyond all of that, I thought that Mr. McManus had a beautiful and flowing writing style that I could never hope to duplicate in 100 year (even though I sort of write for a living).  Every sentence was put together just right. This is why I was especially shocked to see a few complaints about his writing, which I though was an absolute strength.  If I had any nit to pick, it is the poker lingo often got so heavy that I felt like I had to refer to the Terminology section over and over again, which tended to disrupt the flow of the reading (even though I have read a few other poker books like Andy Bellin's Poker Nation which I also enjoyed).  However that nit was not nearly enough for me to give the book anything less than 5 stars.	2003-07-03
US	53000124	R2VV1Z7JVLD2BO	0375502874	687702711	A Box of Matches: A Novel (Baker, Nicholson)	Books	1	11	14	N	Y	Can't recommend it	I used to wonder whether or not I was an erudite guy, but after reading all the 4-star reviews for this book, I know now that I definitely am not.  What other explanation could account for my findng this book stupefyingly uninteresting?  To say that this book did not hold my interest would be a true understatement.  Having read and enjoyed two of Baker's prior efforts (U &amp; I and Vox), I took a chance on this one, knowing in advance, as all the reviews have indicated, that there is not even a pretense of a plot in this book.  I was hoping that perhaps Baker's writing skills would nevertheless carry the day.  Indeed, I can recall at least one movie (My Dinner With Andre) which consisted entirely of a conversation with 2 people and I liked that alot, so I know it can be done on some level.  But in this case, no such luck.  For all those who liked this book, I guess I can be accused of just not &quot;getting it&quot;.  It's not that I have anything against ruminations on life, but in this case, Emmett's reflections ranged from the mundane to ... the even more mundane.  It is virtually nothing but the quotidian from start to finish.  As but a few of dozens of potential examples,  we are treated to 3 full pages of Emmett taking coffeemaker parts out of a dishwasher.  Then there is the entire chapter on his taking a shower.  And of course there are endless paragraphs on the firestarting and fire maintenance process throughout the book.  Really riveting stuff.  Though the book is short, it wasn't short enough for me, and after finally finishing it, I was curious to see what others thought.  To see the largely positive reviews made me feel like I had landed in The Twilight Zone.  Either that or, like I said, one just has to be more erudite than I to enjoy this book.	2003-07-02
US	53000124	R37F2QILKM2O8J	0786868961	471611374	Dispatches From the Culture Wars	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Not what I expected--consider Barney Frank's book instead	In my experience when a book's title has a colon in it, I find that what precedes the colon is usually a nonspecific (sometimes punny) metamessage, while what follows the title is usually what the book is actually about.  With that in mind, I expected the book to be about \\"how the left lost teen spirit.\\"  While there were, to be sure, portions of the book devoted to that issue, that was always based solely on Goldberg's own experiences and nothing more.  I found that the rest of the book was a kind of Cliff Notes (i.e. condensed) autobiography of Goldberg's own career in music combined with some of the most flagrant and copious name-dropping I have seen in a long time.  I suppose that a more accurate subtitle would have been:  \\"How the left lost teen spirit based primarily on my own anecdotal experience as a record executive interested in politics and specifically based on my run-ins with Joe Lieberman and Tipper Gore over the issue of attempted consorship of record content.\\"  In fact, while I wholeheartedly agreed with all of Goldberg's opinions and conclusions on this specific issue, I still felt that the discussion of this issue took up way too much of the book (which is perhaps not surprising given my complaint above).<br />The subtitle was also troubling to me in that it begs the question:  When did that spirit last exist?  In other words, if the left \\"lost\\" teen spirit, what is the time frame Goldberg is using for when it last had it?  It would appear that he may be referring way back to the Kennedy adminstration as the answer to that question.  If so, that is troubling for 2 reasons.  First, 40 years is way too long a time frame to assume that the left has had no \\"teen spirit\\".  Is Goldberg suggesting that it existed in 1963 and prior, but not since?  That is doubtful.  Indeed, while not dispositive of whether the left has lost teen spirit, it should at least be noted that Democrats have won 4 of 10 elections since Kennedy's assasination (and 5 of 10 if one considers the 2000 election as a Democratic victory).<br />If Goldberg instead had in mind a more recent date for when the left last had teen spirit, it should have been specified more clearly so that the reader can compare and contrast what life was like when they had it and when they didn't.  However Goldberg never really goes there.  He points out how it is lacking in the past few years but never really tells us how the given issues might have been addresed (and by whom) at that (never identified) time when the spirit still exised.<br />A footnote:  Having read \\"Shakedown\\" by Kenneth Timmerman, I was nauseated by Goldberg's constant paeans to Jessie Jackson, notwithstanding the fact that Jackson may not have tried a shakedown in the specific Eric Kronfeld/Polygram incident to which Goldberg refers.  <br />In sum, while one might think that it is a benefit to have a book on this topic written by an \\"insider\\" (or at least a semi-insider), I feel that a book on a similar topic written by an outsider might have been more valuable since its focus would not have been so strongly tied solely to the experiences of one individual.  In my mind, an example of a book on almost the exact same topic which did a better job of it is \\"Speaking Frankly\\" by Barney Frank.  (In keeping with my rule for titles with colons in them, the portion of the title which precedes the colon is a pun--i.e. a play on Frank's name--while what follows--\\"What's Wrong With the Democrats and How to Fix It\\"--is what the book is actually about.) Even though the book [has been out for years] (Clinton was not even President!), it is still surprisingly applicable to the state of the Democratic party today.  Moreover, because it is not confined, in tunnel vision fashion, to the author's own experiences, I felt that it was able to describe the problem more effectively than does Goldberg.	2003-06-30
US	53000124	R3SLMEZXX41TBO	0394576284	877241160	Wild Bill: The Legend and Life of William O. Douglas	Books	5	8	11	N	Y	Very impressive effort	It seems obvious that a tremendous amount of work went into this biography and I feel that the results were absolutely worth that effort and thus I would recommend this book highly.  And what do we learn about Justice Douglas?  As a husband (four times over), he was terrible.  As a parent, he was similarly terrible, enough so that his kids more or less disowned him, and rightfully so.  As a boss (to his law clerks and secretaries), he was atrocious to work for.  Indeed, looking at the &quot;private Douglas&quot;, there is almost nothing admirable about the man.  On the other hand, looking at &quot;Justice Douglas&quot;, we see a hard-working, extremely bright man, whose views on the Amendments in the Bill of Rights (especially the First Amendment) made him the champion of the poor, the dispossed, the repressed and the oppressed.  Moreover, with the benefit of hindsight, I would say that most of his liberal leaning opinions (whether in the majority or in dissent) have held up well over the years, especially in the First Amendment area.  Of course, one might conclude that certain issues he had to deal with, particularly on the race front (say, whether a poll tax in the South was constitutional) were less tricky than issues we confront today such as reverse discrimination under the guise of diversity (such as the U. of Michigan Law School case currently awaiting decision by the Spreme Court).  It is interesting to note however that in one of his last cases on the bench in 1974, he indicated that he had no tolerance any kind of quotas, even if dressed up in the lingo of diversity. <br />On a more general note, I would say that writing a biography of a judge is in some ways more challenging than writing the biography of other famous people from other professions like, say, entertainers, athletes, performers or even politicians.  For those kinds of subjects, when they &quot;doing their profession&quot;, whether for better of worse, the public is watching and, more importantly, reacting.  Thus, one can compare the actions of the subject with the response of the public, whether the subject is on the way up or on the way down.  However, with a judge, even an influential Justice like Douglas, when he is doing his job, he is simply writing opinions.  While it is interesting to see what those opinions are (particularly if a juducial philosophy changes over time as Douglas' clearly did), to summarize or recite all those opinions may not, in the hands of the wrong person, make for such a fascinating biography.  However I feel that Murphy did a masterly job.	2003-05-23
US	53000124	R1X0G0W74VIE4Q	0385509529	830620243	You Are Not a Stranger Here	Books	4	2	4	N	Y	Almost 5 stars...	For readers like myself who make a dligent effort to finish any book they begin, a collection of short stories is always a scary proposition because if you don't like the first few, chances are you won't like any of them.  By contrast, a full-blown novel can start out weak and get stronger.  In the case of this collection, I'm happy to say that I thought the stories were mostly excellent.  In fact I would have given it five stars, except that I felt that the last third of the stories were not quite up to the quality of the first two-thirds.  I note that there were 4 themes that ran through these stories and most of the stories included at least 2 of the themes if not more.  They are, in no particular order:  1.  Homosexuality--3 stories.  2.  Mental problems--5 stories.  3.  Depression--5 stories.  4.  Believing oneself or another to be near death, whether or not in reality--4 stories.  The mental illness and depression themes are related but not identical, because in several stories the characters have one quality but not the other.  I realize that this gives the impression of the stories being relentlessly downbeat, but I do not mean to suggest that it is depressing to read the stories.  As some have noted before me, the stories do linger in your mind long after you have finished them and reading the collection itself is not a depressing experience.  I also like the way that many of the stories had what I would consider to be \\"small surprise\\" endings, not in the sense of happily ever afters or a shocking twist, but just something to make to think about the story a little longer.	2003-04-28
US	53000124	RT92481189Y84	0786886323	399419494	Carter Beats the Devil	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Good, but I couldn't give it 5 stars	I agreed with portions of boh the reviews which praised this book to the high heavens and those who criticized it as well.  My primary criticisms were twofold: First, that the book was just too busy--too many subplots, too many characters, and in general too much of everything crammed into one novel.  In fact I have noticed that this is a frequently recurring flaw with first-time novelists: just too much going on; they can't reign themselves in.  I also felt that \\"Act Two\\" of the novel--spanning some 200 pages--was far less interesting (albeit busy)than the first and third \\"Acts\\" and the novel suffered for that as well.  I also agreed with one reviewer that the whole business about the Secret Service agents wanting to kill Carter was rather baffling.  Was it standard operating procedure for these agents to want to kill Presidential assassinaton suspects on sight.  Was I missing something? Having said all that, I still felt that the novel was imaginative, well researched, and, for the most part, quite entertaining. I would recommend it.	2003-04-19
US	53000124	R15FC9QNEEU3IG	1586481231	381855571	High and Mighty: SUVs--The World's Most Dangerous Vehicles and How They Got That Way	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	An excellent book ... I assume	A few random thoughts and observations about this book and about some of the other reviews.<br />1.  I thought the book was a very compelling argument against SUV's.  However, giving somewhat of a nod to the 1-star reviews, I confess that I am in no sense a car expert (nor, I suspect, are the vast majority of reviewers of this book), so I suppose it is possible that some of Bradsher's arguments might be disproved or debated by someone who is an expert.  By way of analogy, a well-written legal brief on an issue can make almost any untrained reader believe that the sky is green.  It is only when one sees an opposing, but equally well-written brief on the other side, that one sees that there are two sides to a story.  However, having only read Bradsher's &quot;brief&quot;, I can only say that I was pretty darn persuaded.  That is why I &quot;assume&quot; it was excellent.<br />2.   Some reviewers commented that Bradsher's tone was shrill or strident.  I didn't find that to the case at all.  I thought that it was rather measured.<br />3.   My one complaint about the book is that it could have EASILY been one-third shorter without any decline in the forcefulness of the argument or the impact of the message whatsoever.  The combination of Brasher's prodigious effort in writing the book combined with an absence of streamlining of the results of that effort, made for a book that was much longer than it needed to be.	2003-04-03
US	53000124	R366JDN2FV7ZDY	0670031356	380324382	The Gatekeepers	Books	5	64	73	N	Y	What is better?  The overachieving 6 or underachieving 8?	First, let me say that I thought that this was an excellent book and would recommend it to anyone who is at all interested in the college admissions process.  Second, I was surprised at how many of the reviewers seemed shocked--shocked!--that applicants got bonus points for coming from minority backgrounds.  Was this some kind of revelation?  However one thing that surprised me a little bit is how--even moving beyond race entirely--the more advantages you have had in life, the more disadvantageous it will be for your admissions process.  For example, I was unaware that having successful parents would be, in essence, held against you on the theory that more would be expected of you.  While other reviewers have (jokingly?) said that they would advise their white kids not to check the &quot;Caucasian&quot; box, I might advise my (still very young) kids to say that their parents have been unemployed their whole life.  <br />I suppose that the main issue which this whole process really boils down to is the following:  As a college applicant, is it more important to succeed in life relative to the world around you (i.e. relative to your classmates, to others of your race, to others of your geographical area, to your own parents' life and accomplishments, etc.) or is it more important to succeed absolutely and not on a relative scale.  This book clearly informs us that the answer is the former and not the latter.  Whether that should be the answer is another question.  <br />For example, say that a student's entire life could be distilled into 2 numbers each on a sliding scale from 1-10.  The first number is simply your academic performance (grades, SAT's, course load, etc.)  The second number is your background (race, economic circumstances, gender, etc.)  In the case of Wesleyan, it seems clear to me that they would rather have a student whose first number was, say, a 6 if his or her second was a 2 (take Mig for example in Steinberg's book) than a student whose first number was an 8 if the second number was a 9 or 10 (take Tiffany Wang for example).  Whether that is the right approach is certainly a legitimate issue for discusion and I'm not saying that it's not.  <br />I suppose that one of the things that would be interesting to know (even though one never really can know of course) is whether those numbers will change in the future.  For example, if one were to know that Mig would always be a 6 and Tiffany would always be an 8, would that change the analysis as to which is the right approach?  I suspect that part of the reason that a school like Wesleyan would favor the overachieving 6 over the underachieving 8 is due to the hope or expectation that those trends will continue in the future and that one day the 6 will actually be ahead of the 8.  And maybe that's the way it works.  Who knows.	2003-02-28
US	53000124	R1M0QMH8VPYHVQ	0670889180	841236279	Jim Crow's Children: The Broken Promise of the Brown Decision	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Very well done though I had two qualms	This book is clearly the result of a great deal of thought and effortand I recommend it to anyone interested in the subject.  It really causes one to question the commonly held assumption (at least perhaps among whites) that all of the issues involving forced segregation and the negative consequences that flowed therefrom more or less evaporated in 1954 or shortly thereafter.  Quite to the contrary, the book shows how, in may ways (though obviously not in all), there are almost more similarities between the state of American education and race relations between, say, 1953 and today than there are dissimilarities.  In that sense, the Brown case may have accomplished a whole lot less than is commonly imagined.  For this reason alone, the book is valuable.<br />      I did have two qualms with the book however.  The more trivial one is that I thought that the numerous statistics were confusingly presented, perhaps because the author tried to summarize them in prose rather than in charts.  There were repeated times that I had to re-read those portions of the book and I feel that that was mostly because the author did not do a  good job of clearly summarizing the statistical information for his readers.  I feel that the use of charts would have been more helpful (and perhaps more dramatic as well in terms of proving the author's points).<br />      My other complaint goes to the issue of the remedy to the problem.  It seems to me (and I think that the author concedes as much) that a good portion of the reason for the problems that exist today relate to changes in demographics, culture and societal forces which are beyond the power of the courts or the legislature to change--just as some judges and commentators have stated.  To be sure, these changes include white flight to the suburbs, but nevertheless people live where they live and little can be done about that.  Thus, in that sense, to the extent that most children attend schools in which their own race predominates (as in the pre-Brown days), I'm not sure that I would call that a \\"failure\\" or a \\"broken promise\\" of the Brown decision. The author seems to take this point as a given, but then proceeds to say that we should not give up; that we should keep trying to fulfill the promises of the Brown case notwithstanding that; that we should search for the harder solution.  <br />      One possibility for that solution is of course a modified \\"separate but equal\\" solution in which separation still exists (though for societal reasons and not due to legally sanctioned segregation) but this time with true equality in terms of funding, teachers, facilities, etc.  In other words, make the black schools just as good as the white schools.<br />      Irons seems to disapprove of this solution on a number of grounds, and I tend to agree with him.  As Thurgood Marshall stated, the idea and the ideal is true integration between the races and NOT separate but equal, even if there were true \\"equality\\" in the senses I have stated.<br />       But, if we rule out this possibility, doesn't this leave only one other possibility, that being busing?  Irons never comes right out and advocates a return to the days of busing (perhaps because it remains a political hot button issue), but it seems to me that there is no other alternative which he leaves open to us.  With that in mind, I would have preferred him to come out more directly and specifically with his own solution to the problem which he lays out so well.  I believe that the only solution he leaves us with is busing, but he seems reluctant to come out and say that in so many words.  If that his solution however, I think that the book would have benefitted from a discussion as to how busing might work today and how it might overcome the problems it faced in the 1970's.  On the other hand, if he has in mind some other solution, I would have liked him to say what that is.	2003-01-29
US	53000124	R1GHZ1W3MOKEQW	0312265956	537046499	Gold in the Water: The True Story of Ordinary Men and Their Extraordinary Dream of Olympic Glory	Books	5	3	5	N	Y	Very well done--this review is for those who read the book.	This review is essentially for those who have already read this book, so if you haven't, I can only say that the author did a very good job and I would recommend it.  If I had any nits, I would say that at times, the book verged a bit on the melodramatic side and at other times seemed to repeat itself (not literally but in retelling, for example, the battles betwen Jochums and his swimmers) so that I felt as if I were reading the same scenarios more than once.  However, one of the things I had intended to criticize actually turned out to be a feature I liked about the book (and this gets into why I say this review is for those who have read the book).  <br />On page xiii of the Introduction, the author tells us that the 2000 Summer Olympic Gammes &quot;were the most successful in history&quot;, that &quot;15 U.S. national records were set&quot;, and that &quot;the Olympic Games serve as this book's final exclamation point.&quot;  (He does also say that &quot;this book is not about that story&quot;, but then adds &quot;at least not at first&quot;, implying to me that it IS about that story at the end.)  As I was reading the book, I kept thinking back to those words, and mostly with annoyance.  I kept asking myself:  Why did the author tell us right at the outset how the story was going to end?  Why couldn't he have kept us in suspense?  Now we already know that the Santa Clara swimmers he profiles are all going to win gold medals. I figured that if the Games were so successful for the U.S. athletes and the author is focusing on these particular swimmers, then it is a foregone conclusion how the story ends. <br />Thus, when I got to the end of the book and realized that the Olympic Trials and Games were more of a nightmare than a dream for most of the dramatis personae of this book, it actually improved my opinion of the book alot, not only because I felt that the author had cleverly thrown me for a loop back in the Introduction (even if that was not his intention), but also because it really reinforces the notion that life does not always end happily after after and the merely being the hardest worker and the most dedicated person and maybe the most worthy person (think especially Wilkens and Grote) does not always make for the Disney ending.  In fact I wonder, if the author had his druthers, and could have created any ending he wanted for the 5 or 6 main swimmers profiled, whether he would have chosen for them to swim to gold medals in world-record times at the Olympics or whether he would have chosen the ending as it actually occurred.  I feel that, perhaps from a standpoint of the personal affection he obviously had for swimmers such as Wilkens and Grote and Wales, he obviously would choose the gold medal option.  However, from a standpoint of pure literary merit, I also feel that the ending as it actually occurred made for a better book.	2002-09-01
US	53000124	R1FE2BOUC79F5Z	0060199032	797120900	Poker Nation: A High-Stakes, Low-Life Adventure into the Heart of a Gambling Country	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Highly entertaining ... Like "Word Freak" applied to poker.	I highly enjoyed this book.  It was very similar in style and concept to the excellent book about Scrabble called \\"Word Freak\\" by Stefan Fatsis which came out last year and which I strongly recommend.  I thought that Mr. Bellis was a fine writer and that the book was consistently entertaining.  It seemed as if some of the more negative reviews of this book came from regular poker players and/or those who have read many poker books (usually both undoubtedly).  I don't consider myself in either of those two categories and so perhaps I came to the book somewhat more open-minded (and in less of a comparative mindset) than some.  I did find that in some parts of the book, the poker lingo got so heavy that it was a bit difficult to follow the author's point, but that is a minor quibble.  The book may not be for everyone, but I recommend it.	2002-07-16
US	53000124	R1N7ZQPI3NGNLI	0312278586	244886090	The Nanny Diaries: A Novel	Books	5	0	4	N	N	Very funny and entertaining, but a few nits...	I thought this novel was great.  It was consistently funny and entertaining and very well written.  So it's 5 stars from me.  There were however a few annoyances, primarily involving the naming of the characters.  Did they really have to call the main character &quot;Nanny&quot;?  I thought that was weird and jarring the first time, the last time and every time in between.  It was just so awkward! I had the exact same reaction to the authors' decision to call the family the &quot;X&quot; family.  I have no doubt that the authors had their reasons for using &quot;Nanny&quot; and &quot;X&quot;, but whatever those reasons were, I would have to disagree with them.  It would have been 100 times preferable for these people just to have regular names.  (Richard Ford also called the narrator's ex-wife &quot;X&quot; in his novel The Sportswriter and it was weird there too.)  By contrast, I thought that Grayer was the perfect name for the little boy.  <br />Second, I thought it somewhat starined credulity for her to continue working for the X family after Mrs. X's behavior became more and more bizarre and intolerable and after things began to unravel.  I understand that the supposed explanation for this is her desire to &quot;stick it out for Grayer&quot;, but I still found hard to accept.  After all, she wasn't going to be with Grayer his whole life.<br />Finally, I would be very interested to know how the authors wrote the book since there were 2 of them.  Did they alternate chapters?  Did one come up with the ideas and the other commit them to paper?  What was the process?  Anyway, I easily recommend the book.	2002-06-07
US	53000124	R1WGV5P76Z9D2	0312278551	326641259	Leaving Disneyland: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Very good.	Doc Kane is in some ways fascinating and in other ways probably completely protypical of countless other prisoners who have committed a violent crime.  We may presume that he came into this world with two strikes against him, with no real chance of ever truly succeeding in life, or even sticking to the straight and narrow.  And yet, despite that, he has true elements of human decency and kindness in his heart, as much as, if not more so, than those among us who have not been burdened by all of his disadvantages.  His never-ending struggle to allow the &quot;good Doc&quot; to prevail over his baser instincts is one of the fascinating elements of the story.  <br />      This struggle truly comes to the fore when he is out of prison and desparately trying--albeit not too successfully--to &quot;fit in&quot; with &quot;regular&quot; society.  I was reminded of the similar battles that the Morgan Freeman character (&quot;Red&quot;) went through after he was released from prison in the movie The Shawshank Redemption.  However, unlike Red--who had a kind of guardian angel looking over him in the form of the Tim Robbins character--Doc has no one looking out for him.  Thus, there can be no Hollywood ending of the sort found in The Shawshank Redemption.  In any event, I certainly recommend the book.	2002-05-25
US	53000124	R1HCQ98UI2BHNH	0809097028	124107492	Beggars and Choosers: How the Politics of Choice Shapes Adoption, Abortion, and Welfare in the United States	Books	2	13	26	N	Y	Preliminarily thought-provoking but downhill from there	To my mind, a book (whether fiction or non-fiction) deserves 1 star if it is just garbage, with no redeeming qualities at all.  By that standard, this book is clearly not garbage.  It is serious and scholarly, it is thought-provoking and it is well written by someone who clearly has expertise in the field. Beyond that however, I had some major problems both with her premise and her remedy (or, perhaps more accurately, her absence of a remedy).<br />Her central premise is that by phrasing the issue of childbirth in terms of choice, we do a disservice to poor women, because when they have children, we can then accuse them of having made a bad &quot;choice&quot;; whereas if we think of childbirth as a &quot;right&quot; as we did in the 60's, then, presumably, no negative stigma would attach to poor women having babies, since they were simply exercising &quot;rights&quot; rather than exercising &quot;choice&quot;.<br />I disagree with this analysis on a number of levels.  The problem is not &quot;choice&quot; vs. &quot;rights&quot;, as if it were simply an issue of nomenclature; the problem is that we happen to live in a society and in a governmental system which is simply too democratic and too capitalist (read: too unsocialist) to ever be able to solve the problem she bemoans.  And frankly, I'm not sure that I even agree that it's a &quot;problem&quot; in the first place.<br />My family and friends are not close to the socioeconomic class which Ms. Solinger is concerned with.  Some of our friends have no children, some have 1, 2, 3, or 4 or more.  And yet, whenever I hear them discussing whether or not to have another child, the issue ALWAYS arises:  Can we afford to have another child?  The couple in question may decide that they can afford to, but the point is the the discussion always comes up, and reasonably so.  If we felt that we couldn't afford another child--or even one child--then we wouldn't have one.  And what's the matter with that?<br />And yet, why should that issue be any different for poor people than for middle or upper class people?  At one point near the end, the author says &quot;it seems most Americans embrace a proposition that is profoundly problematic in a democratic society, that motherhood should be a class privilege.&quot;  The problem with this lament--and indeed the problem with most of the book on this point--is that the supposed solution to this &quot;problem&quot; is nowhere to be found.<br />In the first part of the book, it seemed that Ms. Solinger was primarily unhappy with societal attitudes towards poor women who have children, which explains her dissatisfaction with the term &quot;choice&quot; over the concept of &quot;rights&quot;.  On that score, it is my view that even if the nomenclature changed, societal attitudes would not change one iota.  However, by the end of the book, she seems to be saying that it is not fair, not right, not democratic, that economic stumbling blocks should get in the way of poor people's ability to have children.  In other words, there was a shift from an argument about attitude towards an argument about economics.  (See in particuar the final chapter about &quot;motherhood as a class privilege&quot; which is more or less the guts of the book.)<br />But where is she going with this argument?  Though she never comes right out and says so in so many words, the implicit answer is obvious--she wants the government to subsidize the poor woman's &quot;right&quot; to bear children.  But this is simply unworkable in America at least to the degree she would like.  And where does it end?  As I understand her preference, it is that every poor woman should be given a &quot;livable&quot; stipend by the government for each child, and then presumably we should multiply that stipend by the number of children, without limit.  After all, it would be completely inconsistent with her argument to advocate some kind of arbitrary cutoff as to how many children a woman can have.  Afterall, it childbirth is a &quot;right&quot;, it goes without saying that you cannot impose an arbitrary cutoff as to how often that &quot;right&quot; can be exercised.<br />Last year, Ann Critenden wrote &quot;The Price of Motherhood&quot;, which is subtitled &quot;Why the most important job in the world is still the least valued.&quot;  In that book, she presents a whole smorgasbord of proposals which would put more money in the pockets of women and more specifically, mothers.  On the last page of the book, she acknowledges that if even a few of the proposals were enacted, the result would be, in her words, &quot;a massive shift of income to women&quot;.  Nearly all of her proposals would be paid for by the government in the form of enormous tax increases.  Throughout much of the book, she waxes rhapsodically about Sweden and their &quot;enlightened&quot; system.<br />I mention this because I feel that Ms. Solinger's book falls into the exact same category.  While not being quite as blunt as Ms. Crittenden, she is in essence saying the same thing--the government should pay for the costs of bearing and raising children of poor women and pay them alot more than it does now.  The problem is that we do not live in a quasi-socialist society like Sweden with its crushing tax burdens.  Nor is that bad thing.  In any society as free and laissez-faire and democratic as America, it is a guarantee that people will fall on all ends of the spectrum.  But if she really wants the government to step in to the massive degree which is implicit in her argument, then perhaps she simply doesn't like our form of government.  And perhaps that is her real complaint-not whether we speak in terms of &quot;choice&quot; versus &quot;rights.&quot;	2002-05-17
US	53000124	R32C71GVE2UD7M	0375506764	529762488	Tepper Isn't Going Out: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Excellent.  Reminiscent of &quot;Being There&quot;...for a while	I thought this little novel was just great and highly recommend it.  At first I was concerned about whether this amusing little premise--a guy who parks in legal parking spots and just sits there and reads the paper--could sustain a whole novel, but in Trillin's hands, it can and it does.  I thought it was inventive and amusing throughout and I loved Tepper's occupation.<br />Throughout much of the book, I was struck by the seeming similarity of Tepper with Chauncy Gardner of the movie &quot;Being There&quot; as played by Peter Sellers.  Though Tepper is not of course as &quot;slow&quot; or autistic-seeming as Chauncy, both men have monomaniacal obsessions with one subject (Chauncy-gardening and Tepper-parking), both are men of few words (and yet the rest of the world has come to believe that those few words are imbued with genious), both men mind their own business (to a fault), both men become semi-famous seemingly through no effort or intent on their part, and both men think that every question posed to them relates to their respective areas of obsession and thus their answers relate to that obsession.  Of course, appearances can be deceiving... <BR>      THE REMAINDER OF THIS REVIEW IS ONLY FOR THOSE WHO HAVE FINISHED THE BOOK!!  <BR>       By the end of the book, it seems apparent in fact that Tepper is nothing like Chauncy Gardner becuase everything he did seems to have been scripted and choreographed by him to achieve exactly the result he was hoping for. It is true that his response to Fannon's theory is ambiguous.  However, there seems to be alot of truth to his theory.  After all: (1) Tepper's parking spots had nothing in common with each other, other than their apparent proximity to media types; (2)they were not near his home on West 84th; (3) he continued to return to the same spots even after he know that his appearance would create a circus; (4) he did absolutely nothing to avoid the groundswell of fame that was forming around him; (5) he was willing to sepak on or off the record to whoever desired to come into his car; and (6) he was willing to participate actively in the potential book and movie deals.  It is also worth noting that the only answer he ever gave as to the &quot;why&quot; of what he did was the non- sequitor response of having time left on the meter--in other words, since he did not want to lie, and couldn't give the real reason, he gave the non-sequitor reason.  It seemed somewhat far-fetched (i.e. unrealistic) to me that a person could hatch a scheme like that in the hope that it would wind up the way it did (as Tepper himself says, the person would have to be cynical), but he seems to have done it.  But whether the &quot;plot&quot; was unrealistic or not does not change the fact that I though it was a great book.	2002-04-21
US	53000124	RYGSABDH40V4O	0380977575	505283359	Fender Benders: A Novel	Books	2	3	5	N	Y	Some of these reviews seem to me like life imitating art ...	In Fender Benders, Eddie Long, a struggling young country artist creates a marketing campaign for his new single by creating alot of buzz over the Internet before the full single is released and before the country even knows who Long is.  However, the buzz was artifically manufactured in that it was started by people Long had paid to rave on the Net about his new song.  I bought this book for much the same reason that many people presumably Long's record--I was [pulled] in by the buzz (i.e. some of the Amazon reviews and others).  However, whereas those who bought Long's record seemed to be well satisfied with it, I can't say the same for my own reaction.  I found interesting the parts where Mr. Fitzhugh--who clearly seems to know his territory--almost steps outside the book and explains to the reader how the country music business works in terms of sales, promotion, publishing, etc.  Those portions where he takes us inside the recording studio and recreates how a song is recorded were excellent as well.  However, beyond that--i.e. as a novel--I had some big problems with the book.  Not terrible, but certainly not great.<br />First, except for the \\"po black fellas\\" and other secondary characters (such as Otis, Estella and Chester), virtually every main character is (or becomes) completely unappealing.  We have Big Bill and Franklin who are weasely and dishonest, we have the conniving and despicable Megan, we have Jimmy and Jay who will do anything for a buck even if it may ruin others' lives, we have the gentle but hopelessly naive Whitney and finally Eddie himself.  Though Eddie is the best of the bunch (which is damning with faint praise), he still lets stardom go to his head and becomes unappealing once in Megan's clutches.  It seems that Mr. Fitzhugh dislikes everyone in Nashville.<br />The second problem I had with the book was its predictability.  That is, we are clued in very early on as to what kind of characters we are dealing with (especially in the case of Big Bill, Franklin and Megan) and we then spend the rest of the book watching them act true to form.  For example, what happens with Whitney was utterly predictable.  What Megan tries to do to Eddie is utterly predictable.  When the author spells out what kind of people these people are, it should come as no surprise when they act in exactly the fashion we are are told they are going to.<br />Finally (and read no further if you haven't read the book), with respect to the climactic scene, I was stunned at such an unabashed ripoff of \\"The Manchurian Candidate\\".  All you have to do is substitute Raymond Shaw for Chester and everything else is the same.  I'm not usually very good at figuring these endings out and I can be easily surprised, but I saw that ending coming from a mile away.  In short, for learning a little about the music business, it's interesting, but as a novel, I just didn't care for it much.	2002-04-06
US	53000124	R71YMN4EXVA4I	1582341583	793878587	Selling Ben Cheever: Back to Square One in a Service Economy	Books	4	7	9	N	Y	Very enjoyable, though with a few annoyances	I liked this book quite a bit, particularly the chapters on his experiences at Nobody Beats the Wiz and at &quot;Wegman's Auto&quot;.  I've always wanted to know how they trained though heinous car salesmen and now I know.  There were a few minor things which bothered me though.  For one thing, throughout the book, I had a hard time dialing in where Cheever was coming from in terms of his own financial situation.  Take a scale from 1-10 where 1 =  a desperate need to find a job out of a genuine fear of poverty and not knowing where your next meal is coming from, and 10 = an absolute lack of need to find work due to total financial security, and where the only reason to take these types of jobs is strictly as research, &quot;for the sake of the book&quot;.  Where do we put Cheever on that scale?  Is he towards one of the two extremes?  In the middle?  I had a hard time telling and that was bothersome to me.  Clearly, the other reviewers would put him much closer to the 10 end of the scale, primarily as a result of being Janet Maslin's husband (and presumably as a result of being John Cheever's son as well).  And he himself admits that he's &quot;not out of money&quot;.  Nevertheless, there were plenty of instances throughout the book where I felt like he was not as close to the 10 end of the scale as some people seem to imagine.  (Besides how much money can a NYT film critic make?)  At least with Barbara Ehrenreich's excellent book to which this will undoubtedly be compared, you knew exactly why she was doing what she did and where she was coming.  Cheever however left me guessing, although I don't think that was his intent.  (I do have to add however that, to the extent he didn't need these jobs, I thought that those who criticized him for that very reason were way off-base and that such a criticism is absurd.)<br />Another thing that bothered me a bit was what seemed to be the totally random chronology of the book.  It seemed as if, with each new chapter, his previous job has diappeared without rhyme or reaason and he's on to the next one.  But what happened to the old ones?   A few times we are told, but not often.  One minute he's at Nobody Beats the Wiz, the next he's not.  One minute he's at Border's, the next he's not.  And so on, from job to job to job.  How long was he at each job?  Why did he leave?  Which job did he have when?  What periods was he unemployed altogether?  (And, apropos of the previous paragraph, would it really be correct to say he ws &quot;unemployed&quot; at all?)  All these jobs just seemed to float into and out of the ether of his life.  Perhaps no one else could have cared less about this, but I wouldn't have minded a little chart which at least gave the chronology of his jobs.<br />Finally, I was annoyed by the way he constantly would identify someone by saying &quot;let's call him John Doe.&quot;  If he wanted to mask the identity of 75% of the people in the book, why not just say that one time at the beginning of the book, rather than using the &quot;let's call him&quot; technique over and over again.  Anyway, these are obviously small criticisms and I recommend the book.	2002-03-21
US	53000124	R1CGX5VCC4NERU	0895261901	148709607	Bias: A CBS Insider Exposes How the Media Distort the News	Books	5	133	173	N	N	Want more evidence?  Look at this week's NYT Book Review!	To a certain extent, the charge of liberal bias can be hard to prove. Not only may it require delving into the mind of the news writer to ascertain intent and motive, but also because much of the evidence is anecdotal in nature.  For example, the very subject that led to Mr. Goldberg's op-ed piece in the Wall Street Journal--Eric Engnerg's use words such      as \\"elixir\\", \\"scheme\\" and \\"wacky\\" to describe Steve Forbes' flat tax plan--was anecdotal.  Nevertheless, the anecdotal evidence, when piled one on top of another, can certainly be persuasive, and Goldberg himself is devastaingly effective every time he gives us an example of a comment (read: criticism, accusation, insult, etc.) by a liberal against a conservative which drew no reaction at all from the media, followed by his rhetorical question: Do you think the (non-)reaction would be the same if a similar comment was directed against someone from the left?  The answer, inevitably, is no.  <br />A good example of this technique is when Goldberg mused what would happen if Robert Novak had said:  \\"I hope Jesse Jackson's wife feeds him lots of eggs and butter and he dies early like many black men do, of heart disease.\\"  These were the exact words directed by a USA Today columnist towards Clarence Thomas, which caused nary a stir.<br />Having just finished Goldberg's book, I was stunned (well, maybe I shouldn't have been), by several items I noticed in this week's New York Times Book Review, which demonstrate Goldberg's point in a way which Goldberg could not himself have improved upon.  The bestseller list each week conists of the title, author and publisher of each book followed by a brief thumbnail summary of what the book is about.  In this week's edition, of the 15 nonfiction bestsellers, there are three books in which the NYT writer uses quotation marks as part of the summary.  The purpose of those quotation marks is clear:  to make sure the reader understands (nudge, nudge, wink, wink) that the writer of thesummary (and by extension the Times itself) does NOT share the views of the author.  Moreover, one of these three authors is specifically described as \\"right-wing\\"  and another is specifically described as \\"conservative\\".<br />The first of these three books and the No. 1 bestseller is (surprise, surprise), this book.  The NYT writer advises us that it is about \\"how the media distorts the news\\".  The quotes are not mine; they are those of the writer so that he can subtly get his message across that Goldberg's views are NOT his (or her) views.   The second book, at No. 7, is by Patrick Buchanan.  (You can guess what's coming.)  Here the Times advises us that this book is by a \\"right-wing pundit\\" (given the somewhat perjorative connotation of \\"pundit\\", the Times is here stringing two insults together) about the \\"immigrant invasions\\" that threaten Western culture.  Again, the quotes here are not mine but from the Times writer--to remind us once again:  \\"Hey my fellow erudite NYT East and West coast readers--those are PAT'S words, not ours!\\"  The third book, coming in at No. 8, is from another darling of the left wing, Barbara Olson.   Like Pat, she too gets the double whammy--the gratuitous identification of her political perspective, followed by the ever-present quotes.  She is a \\"conservative commentator\\" (quotes mine, but words from the Times) who discusses \\"the last desperate abuses of power\\" (quotes from the NYT writer) in the Clinton White House.  The quotes once again serve to remind us those those are BARBARA'S views, not ours!  It is worth noting that none of the other blurbs contain any identification of the political leanings of the authors nor any gratuitous quotation marks to distinguish the authors' views from those of the Times.  As Goldberg himself might say, it is hard to imagine the the Times describing any book by Hillary Clinton or Ted Kennedy as being written by a \\"left-winger\\" or a \\"liberal\\".<BR> <BR>Finally, and as a segue from the issue of identification of one's philosophy, I mentioned earlier that liberal bias can be hard to prove because of its frequent reliance on the anecdotal story.  However there is at least one way in which the bias can be demonstrated somewhat more empirically and that regards the use of the words \\"conservative\\", \\"right-wing\\", \\"liberal\\" and left-wing\\".  The magazine Brill's Content actually did a study on this very issue by actually counting the number of times these terms appeared in the major print and television outlets over a several month period.  It should come as no great shock to anyone that the terms \\"conservative\\" and \\"right wing\\" were used about 12 times more frequently than the terms \\"liberal\\" and \\"left wing\\".  (We have already seen from this week's NYT Book Review that the score is 3-0.)  How can one explain this, if not as evidence of bias?  It would seem that Roger Ailes of Fox News had it right on target when he stated that, to the media, Americans fall into one of two categories--they are either moderates or right-wingers or right-wing nuts.  With a mindset like this, it's no surprise that the words \\"left-wing\\" and \\"liberal\\" are heard so rarely from the major media outlets-if the world consists of moderates and right-wingers, those creatures, like dinosaurs, no longer exist.	2002-02-07
US	53000124	R264ZLRNI8OAH2	0618015841	437745521	Word Freak: Heartbreak, Triumph, Genius, and Obsession in the World of Competitive Scrabble Players	Books	5	12	14	N	Y	Outstanding	I start from two premises:  1. That not everyone in the world would naturally be interested in book on competitive Scrabble, particularly one that delves so deeply into lexical matters.  2.  That if anyone who has not read the book is reading its reviews on Amazon, then they would likely not fall into the first category and would love this book as I did.  The amount of work that went into this book was truly impressive, not only in terms of research but in terms of the amount of work Fatsis had to do in a very short time to make himself an expert player.  As one person analogized at the end of the book--it's like someone taking up golf for the first time and becoming a 5-handicapper within a year.  I also liked the way that he did not sugar-coat any of his portrayals of his fellow Scrabble players (or of himself), but despite that honesty, there is never any nastiness towards his subjects.  The honesty is combined with compassion.  Finally, I enjoyed the author's questioning of himself as to whether he himself was becoming one of the Scrabble weirdos (a word I don't believe he ever used himself, but certainly may as well have) as he delved deeper and deeper into the game and its subculture.  But the fact that that while he may have become like some of them on some levels, the transformation was never complete.  For one thing, who among them could have written such an excellent book?  Being an expert tournament player means that you know how to lay your tiles on the board.  It does not mean that you know how to lay them out in a book in the palmary fashion Fatsis does here.	2002-02-06
US	53000124	R3OIANLDK7O6BD	0609606158	781794278	TV: A Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	Y	Started out great but declined ...	Though giving the book only 3 stars, I would still cautiously recommend it.  The book started out great and I was hoping and expecting that it would maintain that quality throughout.  Thereafter, however, there was one huge flaw, which was so annoying that it caused me to take away two stars all by itself and that was incredibly annoying pinball chronology of the story.  The book relentlessly bounces back and forth from one decade to another such that each time I resumed the story, I had to check:  Is this little flasback/anecdote from the 60's? The 80's? the 50's? The 90's?  Back and forth it went without rhyme or reason. (I noticed that Publishers Weekly refers to this as a &quot;desultory timeline&quot; which they found &quot;awkward&quot;, but I would call that an understatement.)   And to make matters worse, it seemed that each anecdote/flashback had the exact same two purposes.  One was to show us that Caesar Forunato was 10% genius and 90% total jerk to virtually everyone who crossed paths with him, family included.  In other words, he was almost completely unlikable.   The other purpose of the flashbacks was to allow Mr. Brown to walk us through all the great and innovative moments in television history, crediting most of those achievements to Fortunato.  All in all, it certainly had its entertaining moments (and when it was in the present it was at its best), and Mr. Brown certainly knows his terrain well, but I felt it could have been done better.	2002-01-26
US	53000124	R1RSCSNXC7WEWL	0374100128	647099960	The Corrections	Books	3	13	15	N	Y	Would have been excellent at 2/3 the length	I know this must be one for the ages because all the pros told me so.  The National Book Club told me, Newsweek told me, The New York Times Book Review told me, of course Oprah told me, and every other profesional critic out there told me.  I was interested therefore to see that out of 305 reviews (clearly a pretty broad sampling of Amazon readers), the average review was only 3 stars.  I guess that the pros must have different standards and criteria than us hoi polloi.  I gave it 3 stars as well, but not perhaps for the same reasons that others were critical.<br />I had no problems with the disfunctionality of the family.  Nor was I troubled by the unlikability of virtually all of the 5 protagonists or the fact that whatever redeeming virtues they each may have had were overwhelmed by their negative qualities.  I could also live with the fact that the story is almostb relentlessly depressing. The fact is that, notwithstanding all of that, the author has presented us with an absorbing and thought-provoking portrait of a family in chaos and disarray.  Each of the 5 Lambert's was incredibly well carved out, almost as if the author was right inside their heads. <br />My major complaint however is that the book was just too darn long and, in my view, could have been told just as well in about 350 pages rather than 568 pages.  The result of this surplusage is that there are numerous portions of the book which are simply boring or added little to the story and which could have been excised altogether.  By way of example, I felt that the &quot;At Sea&quot; portion was way too long and almost all of the material on Chip' adventures in Lithuania was just boring.  Clerly, the author feels that he has certain points that he wants to get across and it goes without that he thought that everything in the final draft was worth including.  I simply don't share that view.  I also felt that the substantial unnecessary length of the novel was a fairly serious shortfall.  For that reason, and only that reason, 3 stars.	2001-12-28
US	53000124	R5ZVYFC2WXHIB	0786867906	841280964	Strip City: A Stripper's Farewell Journey Across America	Books	5	4	12	N	Y	Very well written and entertaining with one frustration	I recognize that in reviewing a stripper's autobiography/travelogue, the writing style might not ordinarily be the first issue which comes to mind.  I have to say however that I was highly impressed with Ms. Burana's prose.  She has a graceful, breezy and fluid writing style and which every word was just right and every sentence seemed to fit together beautifully.  Her style was, for me, reminiscent of Bill Bryson (by coincidence another travelogue writer) who has the same effortless and flowing style and whose books I also love.  (Indeed the book almost seemed like something Bryson himself might write if he were to write his version of &quot;Stripping Across America&quot;.)  So for her writing and the overall entertainment value of the book, I give it 5 stars. My only complaint was that I felt that it began to lag a bit towards the end and to become somewhat rambling and unfocused. It could have been 40 or 50 pages shorter without any loss in quality.  That said, there was one thing as to which I was curious which was never addressed by the author and which I found very frustrating.<br />I could not help but notice that there was virtually no description whatsoever of the author's own body.  (A photo or two would have helped, but no dice there other than the teeny head shot on the dust jacket.)  Is she tall? Short? What are her legs like?  What is her butt like?  Any tatoos?  And last but not least, what are her breasts like?  A-cup?  D-cup?  In between?  Firm? Droopy?  Rounded? Pointy?  (In fact the only references to her body at all are where she implies from time to time that she is not a beanpole--such as having &quot;shoulders like a Viking oarsman&quot;--although I assume that this does not equate to being fat, and where she tells us that she has no implants).  I fully recognize that many people will consider such questions as chauvinistic, irrelevant, juvenile, boorish, piggish, moronic, stupid, Republican, etc., etc. but hear me out.  <br />This is after all a book about a stripper and the world of stripping generally.  Certainly Ms. Burana thinks these issues are important enough when it comes to OTHER strippers, many of whose physiques (including breasts) are described in detail.   In addition, this is obviously not a book where the author is holding much back from her audience.  So why is she so conspicuously silent as to her own body?  I could think of only two possible reasons for this omission and neither of them frankly makes much sense.<br />The first is that she felt her readers might not be interested in jejune issues such as the size and shape of her breasts.  However in the context of this particular book, such an explanation simply defies credulity.  She certainly thought that the readers would be interested in these things when it came to other strippers.  Also, consider the following:  Say there were 2 versions of the book--one is the book we have and in the other one, there is a paragraph added in the book which does in fact describe her body and breasts in full detail.  Readers can opt for either version.  Given that choice, how many readers--whether male OR female--would opt for the edited version which we have?  Is &quot;none&quot; a safe guess?  I would say so.  So much for that theory.<br />The only other possible explanation is that Ms. Burana somehow felt that information about her breasts and body was somehow &quot;too personal&quot; or &quot;off limits&quot; or &quot;none of our business&quot; or something similar.  To me that explanation seems as implausible as the first, especially when one considers the totally frank, open, brutally honest and almost confessional tone of the book when it comes to every other aspect of her life.  In a book where she seems to hold nothing back, where all of her inner feelings, phobias, and insecurities are laid bare (so to speak), the notion that to advise her readers as to her cup size would be just &quot;over the top&quot; seems incongruous, to put it mildly.  That would certainly be an odd place to draw the line in the sand.  If Ms. Burana ever reads these reviews, I would love to hear her thoughts on this.  I can't imagine that the issue didn't arise in the writing and editing process.<br />Anyway, aside from all that, I still thought it was a great book and would highly recommend it to those interested in such things.	2001-11-16
US	53000124	R3M7FCITYVR59Z	0375413030	696613642	A Trial by Jury	Books	3	11	14	N	Y	The idea is great; the author,  case and jury are less so	The idea for this book was certainly a good one.  Given how the whole jury system plays such a central role in our judicial system, it is rather surprising that there is so little material on what actually goes in inside the jury room.  As Burnett rightly points out, it is a &quot;largely inaccessible space in our society.&quot;  Thus the book is certainly a step towards filling that void.  That said, I found it somewhat unsatisfying for several reasons, some of them within the author's control and some of them not.<br />  In various other reviews here, the author has been described variously as &quot;pretentious&quot; (on several occasions), &quot;pompous&quot;, &quot;snobbish&quot;, &quot;holier-than thou&quot;, &quot;smug&quot;, and &quot;self-congratulatory&quot;.  Anyone see a theme here?  I don't really disagree with any of these and I would add pedantic, condescending and superior.  It really comes through on almost every page.  And yet, I have to say that with the possible exception of Adelle, no one else in that jury room seemed like a candidate for MENSA.  In fact, a number of them, such as Felipe and Rachel, seemed like true idiots.<br />  The overall lack of intelligence of so many jury members had several unfortunate consequences.  First, with just a few exceptions, including some comments by Adelle and Dean, it made the deliberations (which take up half of the book) much less interesting than they otherwise might have been.  Second, whatever sense of pedantry and superiority which is probably naturally latent in the author anyway were probably brought to the fore when he saw who he was dealing with.<br />  Also, again though no fault of the author's, I simply didn't find the case he had to work with all that riveting.  A man was lured to or went voluntarily to the apartment of some sort of man/woman/transvestite/cross-dresser/drag queen and either did or did not kill the latter in self-defense when the latter made sexual advances.<br /><br />  All in all, it was not a bad book by any means, but I don't think that it was the book it could have been either.>      <BR>      All in all, it was not a bad book by any means, but I don't think that it was the book it could have been either.	2001-11-09
US	53000124	R16JPR2OGBDVGJ	0375413383	836557265	Political Fictions	Books	3	53	76	N	Y	Thought-provoking views but highly annoying writing style	I had several problems with this collection of essays, but first and foremost among them was Ms. Didion's, shall we say, different writing style.  [The following sentence does reflect my views but, for purposes of illustration, is written in Didion-speak:] I cannot believe that others who have read these essays have not had a similar reaction, because she seems to have an extreme aversion to periods which, when combined with her love of including multiple concepts in each sentence (often set forth by use of parenthetical footnotes or illustrations), and further combined with her EXTREME use of the passive tense--in which the main thrust of the message she was trying to convey in the given sentence is withheld until the very end of the sentence--made for numerous sentences that were virtually impossible to follow the first time through and instead required 3 and 4 re-readings, and even then were difficult to follow.  If I didn't know that Ms. Didion already has an established reputation as a superb writer with, as the NYT calls it, &quot;&quot;ice pick/lasre beam/night scope sniper prose&quot;, I would have thought some of her writing to be simply abominable.  Indeed, I felt that her reputation is so entrenched, that no editor would ever have the nerve to alter any of her writing and so what seem like random (and rambling) musings get committed to the final draft exactly as they appeared in the first draft.  That is not to say that her views aren't provocative--I just wish that some of them could have been put to paper by someone else.<br />Just by way of illustration--and believe me, I could have picked from any one of dozens and dozens of examples--consider the following sentences and see if you can fully follow them the first time through--and note that each of them is just one sentence:<br />&quot;This account of Mrs. Clinton's not entirely remarkable and in any case private conversations with Jean Houston appeared under the apparently accurate if unsurprsing headline &quot;At a Difficult Time, First Lady Reaches Out, Looks Within,&quot; occupied one-hundred and fifty-four column inches, was followed by a six-column inch box explaining the rules under which Mr. woodward conducted his interviews, and included among similar revelations teh news that, according to an unidentified source (Mr. Woodward tells us that some of his interviews were on the record, others &quot;conducted under journalistic ground rules of 'background' or 'deep background', meaning the information could be used but the sources of the information could not be identified&quot;), Mrs. Clinton had at some unspecified point in 1995 disclosed to Jean Houston (&quot;Dialogue and quotations come from at least one participant, from memos or from contemporaneous notes or diaries from a participant in the discussion&quot;) that &quot;she was sure that good habits were the key to survival.&quot;<br />Clear as can be, right?  Consider this one:<br />&quot;The &quot;future historian&quot; who might be interested in piecing together the details of how the Clinton adminstration arrived at its program for health care reform, however, will find, despite a promising page of index references, that none of the key participants interviewed for The Agenda apparently thought to discuss what might have seemed the central curiosity in the process, which was by wha political miscalculation a plan initially meant to remove third-party profit from the health-care equation (or to &quot;take on the insurance industry&quot; as Puting People First, the manifesto of the 1992 Clinton-Gore campaign had phrased it) would become one distrusted by large numbers of Americans precisely because it seemed to enlarge and further entrench the role of the insurance industry.&quot;<br />And finally:<br />&quot;The more grave misreading, as D'Souza sees it, came from within Reagan's own party, not from his more pragmatic aides (the &quot;prags&quot;, or &quot;ingrates and apostates&quot;, whose remarkably similar descriptions of the detachment at the center of the administration in which they served suggested to D'Souza &quot;an almost definat loyalty&quot;) but even from his &quot;hard-core&quot; admirers or &quot;true believers&quot;, those movement conservatives who considered Reagan a &quot;malleable figurehead&quot; too often controlled by pragmatists on his staff.&quot;<br />I could go on and on, but you get the idea.  Could these views have been expressed with any more clarity than that?  Finally, I also felt that there was a certain desultory nature about the essays and they were only connected by a theme to a certain degree.  On page 7, she talks about how the political process did not reflect but proceded from a series of fables about the Americna experience.  And indeed, a number of the essays do address this topic.  But what do her various &quot;book reviews&quot; such as those of books by Dinesh D'Souza, Newt Gingrich and Bob Woodward have to do with that theme.  So far as I can tell, not much.  In all, it's not a bad book, but I almost wish that Ms. Didion's thoughts could have been committed to paper by someone else.rkably similar descriptions of the detachment at the center of the administration in which they served suggested to D'Souza &quot;an almost definat loyalty&quot;) but even from his &quot;hard-core&quot; admirers or &quot;true believers&quot;, those movement conservatives who considered Reagan a &quot;malleable figurehead&quot; too often controlled by pragmatists on his staff.&quot;<br />I could go on and on, but you get the idea.  Could these views have been expressed with any more clarity than that?  Finally, I also felt that there was a certain desultory nature about the essays and they were only connected by a theme to a certain degree.  On page 7, she talks about how the political process did not reflect but proceded from a series of fables about the Americna experience.  And indeed, a number of the essays do address this topic.  But what do her various &quot;book reviews&quot; such as those of books by Dinesh D'Souza, Newt Gingrich and Bob Woodward have to do with that theme.  So far as I can tell, not much.  In all, it's not a bad book, but I almost wish that Ms. Didion's thoughts could have been committed to paper by someone else.	2001-10-23
US	53000124	RT1ZZX3JF6TDS	0618040196	513328313	The Seven Sins of Memory: How the Mind Forgets and Remembers	Books	3	93	112	N	Y	1/3 interesting and informative; 2/3 soporific	I feel a little guilty that I couldn't praise this book as much as others have, but I'll explain why.  But first I'll give credit where it is due.  One of the main benefits of the book is the author's ability to isolate, identify and characterize the 7 sins of memory.  Each of us instantly recognizes each of them when their symptoms are described, because who among us has not been guilty of all of them at one time or another?  It takes someone who thinks about, analyzes and writes about memory for a living to be able to be able to distinguish between and describe the 3 sins of omission and 4 sins of misattribution.  When I have a memory lapse in the future, I may stop to consider which of the author's 7 categories was involved.  So that much of he book is clearly enlightening.  I also enjoyed the anecdotes and the discussions of the various experiments by fellow researchers to prove some of the points being made--the guy in the gorilla suit being a good example. <br />      The problem I had however, is that the book really could have been magazine-article length instead of book-length.  The 7 sins are set out right in the Introduction and it took about 1 page to do it.  Obviously each of the chapters goes into greater detail as to each of the sins, but most of that detail was of a fairly scientific bent or, sad to say, just not that interesting.  This is particularly true with respect to the author's very frequent discussions of the brain and how its function (or malfunction) affects memory.<br />      The following sentences are just a few examples of what I am talking about, which appear over and over again in the book, almost as if he is writing to medical doctors:  <br />&quot;Shallice's experiment suggests that dividing attention prevents the lower left frontal lobe from playing its normal  role in elaborative encoding.&quot;  <br />&quot;In a more recent fMRI study conducted by Anthony Wagner in my laboratory, we saw further evidence of how automatic behavior, reflected by reduced activity in the left inferior prefrontal cortex, works against forming vivid recollections.&quot; <br />&quot;Could this interplay between the precuneus and the frontal system represent the neural signature of a type of blocking that resembles Freud's dynamically inspired concept of repression?&quot;<br />&quot;Buried in the inner regions of the temporal lobe, the amygdala abuts the nearby hippocampus, but performs quite different functions than does its neighbor.&quot;<br />Sentences like these go on and on, but you get the idea.  It's almost as if the author periodically forgot his intended (lay) audience and instead was writing for the benefit of his fellow professionals.  A month (or even a week) after reading this book, how much of any of this type of information about the inner-workings of the brain will anyone remember?  We will remember the 7 sins themselves however and for this alone, this is a valuable contribution.  I just didn't need a whole book to tell me about the 7 sins.	2001-10-17
US	53000124	R2F6JWKEE5QSJA	0375504222	365861800	The Lost Art of Drawing the Line: How Fairness Went Too Far	Books	5	25	29	N	Y	Superb.	Aside from what I considered to be a weak title, everything else about the book was superlative and highly thought-provoking.  It is obvious when when people were spreading the gospel of individual rights through our society, no one stopped to realize that the random and haphazard exercise of one person's individual rights often ran in direct contradiction to society's rights as a whole.  As Mr. Howard says about juries for example: They are not thinking about the effect of their decision on society; they are merely thinking about the two litigants whose case they have been asked to decide.   The problems created by this phenomenon are particularly evident when it comes to puntive damages.  When plaintiff's lawyers urge jurors to &quot;teach this company a lesson for their [supposedly] heinous conduct&quot; the jurors can respond by blithely awarding tens or even hundreds of millions of dollars in punitive damages, and go to bed at night feeling that they have &quot;served&quot; society by their actions.  And of course the great irony is that they have accomplished the exact opposite result.  I don't know how much of an effect Mr. Howard's book will have.  While it may not be readily apparent, the interest groups that have no interest whatsoever in adopting his suggestions--e.g. the American Bar Association, unions of all stripes and colors, libertarians (ironically) and even Congress to some extent--will act to make sure that the status quo remains the status quo.  Nevertheless, I would be delighted to see all of America take his message to heart.	2001-08-22
US	53000124	R370X27662ARF5	0195148274	374461801	Supreme Injustice: How the High Court Hijacked Election 2000	Books	3	7	14	N	Y	7-2 not 5-4; And about the &quot;shoe on the other foot&quot; ....	Let me first give credit where it is due.  Professor Dershowitz seems to persuasively lay out the flaws with the analytical underpinnings of the majority decision by the Supreme Court.  He points out how it is hard to reconcile with previous Supreme Court decisions and his overall analysis on the apparent weakness of the decision is well presented.  Having said that, I felt that there were two major problems with the book, which include the fact that Dershowitz is not above engaging in a little intellectual dishonesty of his own.<br />The first problem relates to his analysis of whether or not the Florida Supreme Court, through its actions, had violated the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment.  Indeed this is where Dershowitz breathes most of his fire.  Dershowitz repeatedly informs us that there was no violation of the Equal Protection Clause by the Florida Supreme Court and that the wicked, villainous, biased, partisan &quot;5-person majority&quot; was wrong to conclude otherwise.  Over and over again, he talks about the awful &quot;5 justices&quot; and he devotes a full chapter on the &quot;inconsistency of the majority justices&quot;.  Well there's one slight problem here.  On the key issue of whether or not there was a violation of the Equal Protection Clause, there was not a 5-person majority, but a 7-person majority--a huge difference.  Justices Souter and Breyer AGREED with the 5-person majority on this issue (The 5-person majority was on the issue of the remedy only, not whether or not the Florida Court had acted unconstitutionally.)  However, to admit that almost the entire Court (and not just a bare majority) disagreed with his analysis would seriously undermine Dershowitz's entire argument, at least as to the bias and partisanship of the &quot;5&quot;, so he basically sweeps that little fact under the rug.  <br />How does he sweep this under the rug?  First by mentioning it only ONE time in the entire book, on page 56.  Look at the index and you'll see that Souter and Breyer are hardly mentioned at all.  Second, when he does allude to their vote, it is in such a convoluted fashion that it is almost comical.  Rather than simply telling us that 7 justices concluded that there was an Equal Protection violation by the Forida Court, he first tells us that 5 justices (that magic number 5) reached such a conclusion and also that the same 5 held that there could be no recount on a timely basis.  He then tells us that 4 dissenters disagreed with the second part of the analysis, but that two of the four dissenters dissented from the dissenters on the first part of the analysis!!!  Boy that's really clear Professor!  And bear in mind, this is the ONLY time in the whole book that Dershowitz even mentions the fact that it was really a 7-2 majority on this issue and not a 5-4 majority.  I am convinced that if one were not a lawyer or had not read the Supreme Court opinion carefully, they would have blown right through this poorly written paragraph (and the rest of the book) without ever realizing that 7 justices found an Equal Protection violation and not just 5.  And this difference is obviously significant, given that his whole point is not just that the wicked 5 were wrong, but that they were being intellectually dishonest and partisan at the same time.<br />The second flaw I found with the book relates to what he calls the &quot;shoe on the other foot&quot; test, which he alludes to periodically.  This is fact should be the real topic of th book.  I believe that the pull of one's political beliefs is extremely powerful and affects a person's worldview on issues which are not directly political in nature.  For example, take the Clinton impeachment.  On its face, the issue was simply:  Should Clinton have been impeached for the acts he committed?  On its face, that is solely a legal, and perhaps a moral and ethical issue, as well.  And yet, how many rabid Democrats were clamoring for his impeachment?  How many rabidRepublicans were saying he shouldn't be impeached?  Answers:  very few on either side.  And yet this is despite the fact that, at least in THEORY, one's political affilation should have no bearing on the issue.  The same is true, I believe, of the Bush v. Gore election battle.  The opinions of the vast majority of Americans closely followed their political affiliations even though--again in theory--that should have nothing to do with one's views on the Supreme Court decision or the Florida decision.  In fact, I strongly believe that this rule extended to the Supreme Court justices themselves even though the (correct) point is made that this is exactly what should not happen.<br />Enter Professor Dershowitz.  He tells us that he is a Democrat &quot;who sometimes votes for Republicans&quot;.  We'll never know for sure, but I'd like to know exactly what Republicans he has ever voted for.  I would guess that it was not for a post higher than County dogcatcher (and certainly no Congressional or Presidential candidates or else the votes wree made a long time ago.  Though Professor Dershowitz--like all of us looks at the world through that particular prism, just as I do and just as we all do.  There is nothing inherently the matter with that, except when we get to the shoe on the other foot test.<br />First of all, while he lovingly describes the &quot;inconsistency of the majority justices&quot; he never once finds the time to tell us that the minority justices were inconsistent as well.  It is generally accepted that in most cases, the conservative justices champion state's rights over federal rights, while the liberal justices generally go the other way.  Of course Bush v. Gore required the wicked 5 conservative justices to flip-flop on this issue.  Fine, but how come we are never informed that the minority flip-flopped as well?  And does anyone really believe that when, say, Justice Ginsburg pulls the lever in the ballot box, that she ever votes Republican?  Please.<br/>And therein lies the problem.  There is no doubt in my mind that if all of the facts had been reversed, then all of the debaters on BOTH sides would be making the exact opposite arguments, including Dershowitz himself.  Of course, we will obviously never know for sure, but for those Democrats who say &quot;Not me!  I would have would have strongly criticized the Supreme Court opinion even if it meant arguing for Bush's election&quot;,  I say BS.  I don't believe that for one second.  In fact it is absolutely astonishing to me how Dershowitz repeatedly speculates that the wicked 5 would fail the foot on the other shoe test, but it barely seems to even occur to him whether the minority 4 (or 2) would also fail the same test.  THIS is intellectual dishonesty.<br />Significantly however, on at least two occasions Dershowitz does mention the fact that we may ALL fail the &quot;shoe on the other foot test&quot;.  The first is on pp. 119-120, where he tells us that when he asks the audiences in his speeches for a show of hands as to how many people believe that all of the justices on both the U.S. Supreme Court and the Florida Supreme Court would pass the test, &quot;not a single hand went up.&quot;  And again on p. 172, he tells us that some people believe that all the judges and justices would fail the shoe on the other foot test.  <br />And that, I believe, should be the real topic of this book.  If his primary message had been how ALL of us--including the judges--fail that test, that would be a fair message and one worthy of serious discussion.  However to spend 99.9% book of the book talking about how the conservative justices only failed the test--while not discussing at all the more important issue of whether all the justices would fail the test--is a real disservice to his readers.	2001-08-07
US	53000124	R31IJYJ3DL6CGR	0195148274	374461801	Supreme Injustice: How the High Court Hijacked Election 2000	Books	3	38	50	N	Y	7-2 not 5-4; And about the "shoe on the other foot" ....	Let me first give credit where it is due.  Professor Dershowitz seems to persuasively lay out the flaws with the analytical underpinnings of the majority decision by the Supreme Court.  He points out how it is hard to reconcile with previous Supreme Court decisions and his overall analysis on the apparent weakness of the decision is well presented.  Having said that, I felt that there were two major problems with the book, which include the fact that Dershowitz is not above engaging in a little intellectual dishonesty of his own.<br />The first problem relates to his analysis of whether or not the Florida Supreme Court, through its actions, had violated the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment.  Indeed this is where Dershowitz breathes most of his fire.  Dershowitz repeatedly informs us that there was no violation of the Equal Protection Clause by the Florida Supreme Court and that the wicked, villainous, biased, partisan \\"5-person majority\\" was wrong to conclude otherwise.  Over and over again, he talks about the awful \\"5 justices\\" and he devotes a full chapter on the \\"inconsistency of the majority justices\\".  Well there's one slight problem here.  On the key issue of whether or not there was a violation of the Equal Protection Clause, there was not a 5-person majority, but a 7-person majority--a huge difference.  Justices Souter and Breyer AGREED with the 5-person majority on this issue (The 5-person majority was on the issue of the remedy only, not whether or not the Florida Court had acted unconstitutionally.)  However, to admit that almost the entire Court (and not just a bare majority) disagreed with his analysis would seriously undermine Dershowitz's entire argument, at least as to the bias and partisanship of the \\"5\\", so he basically sweeps that little fact under the rug.<br />How does he sweep this under the rug?  First by mentioning it only ONE time in the entire book, on page 56.  Look at the index and you'll see that Souter and Breyer are hardly mentioned at all.  Second, when he does allude to their vote, it is in such a convoluted fashion that it is almost comical.  Rather than simply telling us that 7 justices concluded that there was an Equal Protection violation by the Forida Court, he first tells us that 5 justices (that magic number 5) reached such a conclusion and also that the same 5 held that there could be no recount on a timely basis.  He then tells us that 4 dissenters disagreed with the second part of the analysis, but that two of the four dissenters dissented from the dissenters on the first part of the analysis!!!  And bear in mind, this is the ONLY time in the whole book that Dershowitz even mentions the fact that it was really a 7-2 majority on this issue and not a 5-4 majority.  I am convinced that if one were not a lawyer or had not read the Supreme Court opinion carefully, they would have blown right through this poorly written paragraph (and the rest of the book) without ever realizing that 7 justices found an Equal Protection violation and not just 5.  And this difference is obviously significant, given that his whole point is not just that the wicked 5 were wrong, but that they were being intellectually dishonest and partisan at the same time.<br />The second flaw I found with the book relates to what he calls the \\"shoe on the other foot\\" test, which he alludes to periodically.  This is fact should be the real topic of th book.  I believe that the pull of one's political beliefs is extremely powerful and affects a person's worldview on issues which are not directly political in nature.  For example, take the Clinton impeachment.  On its face, the issue was simply:  Should Clinton have been impeached for the acts he committed?  On its face, that is solely a legal, and perhaps a moral and ethical issue, as well.  The same is true, I believe, of the Bush v. Gore election battle.  The opinions of the vast majority of Americans closely followed their political affiliations even though--again in theory--that should have nothing to do with one's views on the Supreme Court decision or the Florida decision.  In fact, I strongly believe that this rule extended to the Supreme Court justices themselves even though the (correct) point is made that this is exactly what should not happen.<br />Enter Professor Dershowitz.  He tells us that he is a Democrat \\"who sometimes votes for Republicans\\".  Though Professor Dershowitz--like all of us looks at the world through that particular prism, just as I do and just as we all do.  There is nothing inherently the matter with that, except when we get to the shoe on the other foot test.<br />First of all, while he lovingly describes the \\"inconsistency of the majority justices\\" he never once finds the time to tell us that the minority justices were inconsistent as well.  It is generally accepted that in most cases, the conservative justices champion state's rights over federal rights, while the liberal justices generally go the other way.  Of course Bush v. Gore required the wicked 5 conservative justices to flip-flop on this issue.  Fine, but how come we are never informed that the minority flip-flopped as well?  And does anyone really believe that when, say, Justice Ginsburg pulls the lever in the ballot box, that she ever votes Republican?  Please.<br />And therein lies the problem.  There is no doubt in my mind that if all of the facts had been reversed, then all of the debaters on BOTH sides would be making the exact opposite arguments, including Dershowitz himself.  Of course, we will obviously never know for sure, but for those Democrats who say \\"Not me!  I would have would have strongly criticized the Supreme Court opinion even if it meant arguing for Bush's election\\",  I say [no].  It is absolutely astonishing to me how Dershowitz repeatedly speculates that the wicked 5 would fail the foot on the other shoe test, but it barely seems to even occur to him whether the minority 4 (or 2) would also fail the same test.  THIS is intellectual dishonesty.<br />Significantly however, on at least two occasions Dershowitz does mention the fact that we may ALL fail the \\"shoe on the other foot test\\".  The first is on pp. 119-120, where he tells us that when he asks the audiences in his speeches for a show of hands as to how many people believe that all of the justices on both the U.S. Supreme Court and the Florida Supreme Court would pass the test, \\"not a single hand went up.\\"  And again on p. 172, he tells us that some people believe that all the judges and justices would fail the shoe on the other foot test.<br />And that, I believe, should be the real topic of this book.  If his primary message had been how ALL of us--including the judges--fail that test, that would be a fair message and one worthy of serious discussion.  However to spend 99.9% book of the book talking about how the conservative justices only failed the test--while not discussing at all the more important issue of whether all the justices would fail the test--is a real disservice to his readers.-again in theory--that should have nothing to do with one's views on the Supreme Court decision or the Florida decision.  In fact, I strongly believe that this rule extended to the Supreme Court justices themselves even though the (correct) point is made that this is exactly what should not happen.<br />Enter Professor Dershowitz.  He tells us that he is a Democrat \\"who sometimes votes for Republicans\\".  Though Professor Dershowitz--like all of us looks at the world through that particular prism, just as I do and just as we all do.  There is nothing inherently the matter with that, except when we get to the shoe on the other foot test.<br />First of all, while he lovingly describes the \\"inconsistency of the majority justices\\" he never once finds the time to tell us that the minority justices were inconsistent as well.  It is generally accepted that in most cases, the conservative justices champion state's rights over federal rights, while the liberal justices generally go the other way.  Of course Bush v. Gore required the wicked 5 conservative justices to flip-flop on this issue.  Fine, but how come we are never informed that the minority flip-flopped as well?  And does anyone really believe that when, say, Justice Ginsburg pulls the lever in the ballot box, that she ever votes Republican?  Please.<br />And therein lies the problem.  There is no doubt in my mind that if all of the facts had been reversed, then all of the debaters on BOTH sides would be making the exact opposite arguments, including Dershowitz himself.  Of course, we will obviously never know for sure, but for those Democrats who say \\"Not me!  I would have would have strongly criticized the Supreme Court opinion even if it meant arguing for Bush's election\\",  I say [no].  It is absolutely astonishing to me how Dershowitz repeatedly speculates that the wicked 5 would fail the foot on the other shoe test, but it barely seems to even occur to him whether the minority 4 (or 2) would also fail the same test.  THIS is intellectual dishonesty.<br />Significantly however, on at least two occasions Dershowitz does mention the fact that we may ALL fail the \\"shoe on the other foot test\\".  The first is on pp. 119-120, where he tells us that when he asks the audiences in his speeches for a show of hands as to how many people believe that all of the justices on both the U.S. Supreme Court and the Florida Supreme Court would pass the test, \\"not a single hand went up.\\"  And again on p. 172, he tells us that some people believe that all the judges and justices would fail the shoe on the other foot test.  <br />And that, I believe, should be the real topic of this book.  If his primary message had been how ALL of us--including the judges--fail that test, that would be a fair message and one worthy of serious discussion.  However to spend 99.9% book of the book talking about how the conservative justices only failed the test--while not discussing at all the more important issue of whether all the justices would fail the test--is a real disservice to his readers.	2001-08-07
US	53000124	R242LWG4WCPCE5	0805063889	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	5	24	29	N	Y	Superb.	On economic issues (if not necessarily on social issues), I am more or less a card-carrying member of the Republican Party, and what it stands for.  Thus, if you told me that I should read a book that touts the wonders of unionism and strongly advocates the need for a higher minimum wage, I normally would have said thanks, but no thanks.  But I read it based on a friend's recommendation, and can only say that I could not be more impressed by Mr. Ehrenreich's effort.  It is one of the most thought-provoking books I have read in a long time.  Here were some of the things I admired:<br />1.  Her writing ability.  She has a wonderful fluid style that is very easy to read and yet which struck me as much easier described than done.  It had an effortless quality about it, but as one who has to write for a living, it was either not effortless, or else she is simply a talented writer.<br />2.  Her sense of humor.  Surprisingly, there is quite a bit of humor in this book and I found myself laughing out loud quite a few times. Her humor, appropriately, is always directed at her actual or potential employers rather than her co-workers, to whom she shows nothing but compassion and respect.<br />3.  The force of her message.  There was something subtle and understated, or shall we say less than shrill, about the way she presents her case, that merely adds to its impact.  In fact, she almost doesn't present a case at all--she simply lays out her own experiences (together with some footnotes showing national statistics) and lets the reader come to their own conclusion.  This is not to say that I am suddenly wildly pro-union or advocate an immediate increase in the minimum wage to $14.  However, there is no question that what she has to say is serious food for thought, especially as regards the minimum wage.  Indeed, by going in there and getting her hands dirty (literally and figuratively) she presented to me a far stronger case for raising the minimum wage then, say, Ted Kennedy or Barbara Boxer or Dick Gephardt or Maxine Waters and their ilk ever could or did.  As for unions (which is of course not the focus of her book), I have always had mixed feelings.  They always seem like such a better idea in theory than in practice.<br />4.    I thought the footnotes were an excellent addition to the book and helped put into a macro perspective some of the same experiences the author was suffering on a micro perspective.<br />       Finally, I don't even necessary disagree with some of the criticisms I have read below.  As but one example, it did seem that she could have made life a bit easier on herself in certain respects, even within the confines of her own parameters which she set for herself.  But despite that, I found this easily to be a 5-star effort and applaud Ms. Ehrenreich for the book.	2001-07-29
US	53000124	R6W6BWQ2RYKB9	0684850796	782338564	Inspired Sleep: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Very good but would have liked more Bonnie and less Ian	First, I agree with all of the reviewers who commented on how well-written the book was.  Cohen is simply an excellent writer who really can string words together beautifully.  I was particularly impressed by little touches such as Cress' book report on Macbeth, where he has to write as a 15-year old like Cress might write, and the E-mail exchanges, and the E-Mail exchanges.  The dialogue is great too. I really admire his talent.  In addition, I don't necessarily agree with those who criticized the entire cast of characters in the book, as if to throw them all in a pot together.  However, I did find all the chapters about Bonnie and her world (Larry Albeit, Cress, her kids etc.) to be much more interesting than the chapters about Ian and his world (Heflin, Marisa Chu, Erway, Eddie, etc.).  And therein lies a problem: As the novel went on, while there is obviously some intersection between Bonnie's life and Ian's life, it seemed that Ian and his world took center stage more and more while Bonnie and her group got pushed to the sidelines.  Not completely of course, but enough to annoy.  I would have enjoyed more about Bonnie &amp; Co. and less about Ian &amp; Co.  It also seemed to me as if, except for one twist, the ending seemed to fizzle out a little, as if the author lost some of his focused edge.  Nevertheless, still a fine novel.	2001-07-24
US	53000124	R2RLPCN52GTOQP	0446526479	831796799	Amanda's Wedding	Books	2	9	15	N	Y	How derivative can you get?	Notwithstanding everyone else's glowing review of this supposedly hilarious book, I found it to be nothing more than a vastly inferior imitation of Bridget Jones' Diary.  That is, another first person narrative by an incredibly hapless (and, due to self-awareness, incredibly self-deprecating) British, female singleton in her late 20's whose life consists of looking for Mr. Right and winding up with Mr. Wrong.  Virtually every attempt at humor comes in the form of Melanie's self-criticism (mostly justified).  If I were Helen Fielding (author of Bridget Jones' Diary) I would sue for plagiarism.  However, compared to the one-dimensional predictable stick figures in this book, the characters in BJD seem deep and multilayered by comparison.  People like Amanda are virtual cartoon characters--i.e. completely unrealistic.  If you haven't read Bridget Jones' Diary, skip this book and read that far superior, and funnier (not to mention more original) version instead.  If you have read BJD, and are hoping that this will be of an equal caliber, you'll be sorely disappointed.	2001-07-15
US	53000124	R9FW55E0MGX40	0786864133	62030752	Napalm & Silly Putty	Books	2	4	7	N	N	Not vile, not offensive .... and not very funny either	There is no doubt that Carlin is (or was) a groundbreaking and historically important comedian.  He earned his stripes years ago with such brilliant albums as AM/FM and great bits like the 7 dirty words.  A this point however, with literary efforts like these, it seems that he is pretty much just mailing in his effort. I found 10% of this book funny and/or clever (hence more than 1 star), 10% ripped off from other comedians (... in particular), and the other 80% simply not funny or interesting.  It wasn't offensive or sacriligious, it was worse--not funny.<br />Also, at the risk of sounding prudish (which I'm not), I found his incessant swearing to be entirely gratuitous.  There is no question that you need the full range of our language including good dirty words here and there to punch up a joke or story and on those occasions the right swear word can be indispensable.  But there is also such thing as overkill.  And in Carlin's case it just seems very forced (especially with the ... all over the place).  It seemed to me as if Carlin--who is going on about 65 by now--is trying, in his way, to say to us:  <br />\\"I'm vital! (or as he might put it:  \\"I'm ... vital!\\"). I'm relevant!. I'm happening!  Look at how I swear all over the place (even when it adds nothing to the joke). You know I must be hip, because that's how hip guys talk.\\"<br />As I say, historically, he is an important comedian.  But now he seems well past his prime and, and this point is trying to come off as the brash young iconoclast and it just doesn't work	2001-07-09
US	53000124	RWLKHSBPRHO14	0743200705	357272213	Bud, Sweat, And Tees: Hootie, Martha, and the Masters of the Universe	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Excellent, but how did he write this?	It's not every author who could look at a couple of guys like Beem and Duplantis and say to themselves:  &quot;Gee, I could write a book about these guys!&quot;  After all, they don't seem that fascinating on the surface.  But Spipnuck saw the potential and made it work.  Really a good read.  The whole time reading the book however, I found myself wondering exactly how Shipnuck wrote the book.  In other words, what was the nature of his involvement with these guys and when did it start?  It certainly appears that he spent a ton of time in their actual presence and was relating the story as it happened.  He certainly was in their presence sometimes--for example, right at the start of the book, 8 days after the Kemper--Beem met up with Shipnuck.  However, given that Beem and Duplantis were often apart, it cannot be the case that he was always in their company.  Was it instead based primarily on interviews with the two over the phone?  Would they speak every night?  (It certainly seemed like it given that he has almost daily quotes from the two about major matters and mundane matters alike).  I also could not ascertain when the author picked up with his narrative.  Was it at the start of 1999, meaning that he just happened to get incredibly lucky when his obscure guy won the Kemper.  Or did the idea come to him only after Beem won the Kemper, and if so, how is it that he has such meticulous detail as to the lives of Beem and Duplantis up to that point?  To take just one tiny example of that--in early 1999, Shipnuck is coveing Beem at the Pebble Beach Pro-Am.  On the 7th hole, Beem hits a 6-iron and Shipnuck quotes him as saying  &quot;A good 6-iron.&quot;  Well, obviously, Beem would not have said that to Shipnuck 5 or 6 months later, so we have to assume that it was more or less contemporaneous, as nearly all the quotes seem to be.  If so, that would mean that the author was in full coverage mode throughout 1999 and, by incredible coincidence, happended to luck out when his man won the Kemper.  Anyway, I was just wondering about all this.  Lastly, I thought the title was stupid and not worthy of such a good book.	2001-06-07
US	53000124	R11CS7D4QQDN85	0805066187	204003109	The Price of Motherhood: Why the Most Important Job in the World is Still the Least Valued	Books	4	28	47	N	Y	&quot;A massive shift of income&quot; indeed	In the very last paragraph of this book, the author acknowledges that the result of her various proposals would be &quot;a massive shift of income to women&quot;.  Well it seems logical that there are ony two sources where that money can come from: the private sector (i.e. employers) and the public sector (i.e. government).  I feel that both of these possibilities are fraught with problems, and further, that the author is much better at identifying the problem rather than the solution.<br />The premise of the book is that, for too long, motherhood has been underappreciated and undervalued in American society and that women should not be &quot;penalized&quot; for staying at home to raise their kids.  For the sake of discussion, let's accept that her premise is accurate.  Where do we go from there?  Her ultimate answer is that mothers should be &quot;paid&quot;, directly or indirectly, for raising their children.  <br />Her first proposed payor of these obligations is American employers.  These &quot;payments&quot; would take the form of, for example, a year's paid leave (presumably at the employer's expense), a shortened workweek (possibly with no drop in pay), and far greater freedom in setting their own flexible work schedules.  And of course, the employer can forget about overtime.  Well, I don't know where are these funds are suddenly going to materialize from, but it's obvious that Ms. Crittenden has never run a business.  These substantially higher costs will almost necessarily result in greater costs to the consumer or a shrunken bottom line.  These possibilities seem not to concern the author at all.  Moreover, if I was an employer considering hiring two equally qualified candidates, one a man and one a woman, and if all of her income-shifting prposals were encated, guess which one I'm going to choose?  And don't even start to tell me about discrimination--not under those circumstances.<br />Her second proposed payor is the government.  Indeed for page afterpage, she waxes rhapsodically about European countries and their &quot;enlightened&quot; systems, and most particularly, her true favorite, Sweden.  Indeed Sweden does seem like quite the paradise for women, where the government seems to pay for everything for everyone for eternity.  Ms, Crittenden also advocates numerous other freebies, including universal free preschool (why not free education right through graduate school?) and of course free health care coverage for children and their caregivers.   Indeed, it is a small wonder that Ms. Crittenden did not decide to move to Sweden.<br />It is unfortunate that America is simply not set up as a quassi-socialist economy like Sweden, Canada, Denmark and other countries where the government takes care of virtually everything, cradle to grave.  And how do they afford all those goodies?  Can you say crushing tax burden?  (Gee, I wonder whether Ms. Crittenden is a Republican or Democrat?  Now there's a tough question.)    Another problem with her argument is that it has no aplicability to all those mothers who have children and who desire to raise them full-time whether they were previously working or not.  Admittedly, many women can't afford that, but for those who can, the notion of Ms. Crittenden's &quot;massive income shifting&quot; seems absurd, particularly as embodied in the &quot;two-tier marriage&quot;.  Indeed, for those women who are volunatrily not in the workplace, her proposals make no sense whatsoever.  All of her notions about &quot;free labor&quot; and the unfairness of it all simply have no applicability to the voluntary homemaker.  And yet, the income would be shifted their way anyway.<br />I gave the book 4 stars not so much because I agree with her proposals but because the book is thought-prvoking and that counts for something.	2001-05-18
US	53000124	R6A96AXOPIC8Q	1559705361	549637370	Spikes	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	Mostly excellent, but a few flaws ...	Most golf novels I have read--particularly those of the comedic variety--tend to follow a certain pattern.  While they are ostensibly about golf, what they are really about (at least in the author's mind) is the game of life--or, perhaps more accurately, the game of LIFE.  In other words, while the story is amusing on the surface, there is invariably something HEAVY lurking just beneath.  This novel is no exception.  I found the writing excellent and the book in general is well worth reading (although I might have to disagree with those who suggest that the novel would be equally as enjoyable to a non-golf fan. Even if the book is about &quot;more than golf&quot;, I can't imagine someone with no interest in the sport enjoying the book as much). If you do like golf however, the book is definitely worthwhile.  I did have a few problems with the book however, which, taken collectively, were worth deducting a star.<br />First and foremost, while certain scenes--especially those where Brian is actually playing golf, those involving Bird (an excellent character), and those involving Ellen--were really fun to read, there were others--especially those involving Rosa, Brian's father, his mother and the flashbacks, which I felt were much duller and which I was wishing would end.  It's not that Rosa isn't important as far as the big picture is concerned--I just felt that whenever we had to read about their relationship, the novel just dragged.  Also, there were a number of soliloquies, tangents, musings and sidebars--such as (to take but one example) Bird going on and on and on about flying--which I just felt were unnecessary and really added little to the novel.  It seemed as if the author was trying to show off his writing skills in some way.  In short, I felt that large chunks of the novel could have been excised with no loss to those elements that made it such a fun read. Nevertheless, on balance, I certainly recommend it for anyone who likes golf novels.	2001-05-09
US	53000124	R2BQAJ03U37SLI	068486813X	602046440	The Breach : Inside the Impeachment and Trial of William Jefferson Clinton	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	For the most part, excellent, but ....	Many reviewers have complimented Baker for being so &quot;even-handed&quot; or &quot;impartial&quot; or &quot;non-ideological&quot; etc. etc., and all of these descriptions are true.  However, I view this as somewhat a virtue and somewhat a flaw.  From a pure journalism standpoint, the book was excellent.  Not only does Baker lay out the entire chronology of events in a clear manner, but it seems he somehow was advised about virtually every key discussion which occurred over the entire time period, no matter how secret or confidential that discussion was intended to be.  Whether between just 2 or 3 people or between whole groups of Democrats or Republicans, or within the White House itself, no matter how closed door or off-the-record, Baker somehow found what was said and who said it.  I kept on asking myself:  How could the author know this?  Who would have confided in him?  Yet, I have no reason not to take him at his word that the conversations occurred just as he said they did.<br />On the other hand, the impartiality of the book was also for me a flaw.  The reason the book is so impartial and non-ideological is because it offers virtually no analysis.  Just as Mike McCurry declared that the post-impeachment White House was to be a &quot;gloat-free zone&quot;, this book was an opinion-free zone.  It was like reading the news section of the newspaper with the editorial and op-ed pages deleted entirely.  It was &quot;this happened and then this happened and then this happened&quot; etc.  In other words, it was very heavy on the who, what, where, how and when and very light on the why.  <br />Don't get me wrong.  I still felt it was a very good book and would certainly recommend it.  I just would have preferred a little more discussion about the author's own perspective on everything.	2001-04-10
US	53000124	R7IWPQ4U3LD6M	0393049949	762531115	Hitler: 1936-1945 Nemesis	Books	4	7	10	N	Y	I couldn't give it 5 stars ....	I was tempted to give it 5 stars only because of its sheer length (over 1400 pages when the 2 biographies are combined), its copious footnoting, and its obvious &quot;scholarliness.&quot;  And it was certainly a good biography, which I would recommend.  But despite all that, I had a few problems with it, some trivial and some not:<br />1.  I found the book to be both overinclusive and underinclusive.  I mean the former in the sense that the lens of the author was so tightly focused on Hitler and Hitler only that it seems as if Hitler's every utterance, every thought, and every movement was included.  The problem with this is that so many of Hitler's thoughts and sayings were repetitive that we didn't need to be advised each of the umpteenth times they occured.  The author was also repetitive in his own right.   For example, how often did we read the following? (10? 20? 100?  In any case, TOO MANY.)<br />1.  Hitler was determined that there would be no repeat of 1918.<br />2.  Hitler insisted on a military success before any talk of settlement.<br />3.  Hitler had an &quot;either-or&quot; way of thinking with no middle ground.<br />4.  Hitler refused to capitulate.<br />5.  Whenever anything went wrong, Hitler looked for scapegoats upon whom to case the blame.<br />6.  Hitler felt the Jews and Bolsheviks were the root of all evil.<br />7.  Hitler felt that Gemany's fortunes would turn around as soon as new weapons were developed.<br />8.  Hitler felt betrayed by his generals. <br />9.  Hitler ordered [fill in appropriate geographic area which was being wiped out the Allies] to be held at all costs.<br />10.  By doing X [especially if it's something nasty against the Jews], Mr. Y was &quot;working towards the Fuhrer&quot;.   11.  The little phrases used over and over such as &quot;pushing at an open door&quot;.<br />By about the 5th time I read each of these sentiments, I got the point.  I didn't need to be advised another 20 times.  I think that one of the &quot;dirty little secrets&quot; of Hitler's life is that, once the war started to go sour--say after the failure of Operation Barbarossa--his life was not only unchanging but also not all that interesting.  It was just one straight downward path culminating in his ultimate suicide.  It seemed as if there were no ups and downs after 1942--it was just straight down.  For that reason, I feel that the second half of the book could have been shortened significantly with virtually no loss in understanding Hitler the man.<br />       But just as I felt the book was overinclusive in terms of the author's steadfast focus on Hitler, it was also underinclusive in terms of how little attention was paid to various major events during the war.  I recognize that the book was not about Nazi Germany per se and it is not called &quot;Hitler and his times&quot;, but couldn't the author have devoted more than a few sentences to major events such as: The Warsaw Ghetto uprising?  The British decoding efforts?  The concentration camps?  D-Day?  Yalta?  These events were almost completely ignored.<br />Finally, one trivial--but for me annoying--trait of the book--was the author's constant translation of words, phrases and sentences into German.  What exactly did this add to the book?  That the author knows German?  That the Nazi leaders spoke in German and not in English?  What was the point??  He could have knocked off 20 pages right there.  I was particularly annoyed with the translation of &quot;annihilate&quot; to vernichten.  It must be no exaggeration to say that we are given that little translation at least 50 times (particularly if you include the offshoots such as &quot;annihilation&quot; which are also helpfully translated for us).  Did the author not feel that the first 10 times were sufficient?  Also, on some occasions, we are told that &quot;vernichten&quot; means &quot;annihilate&quot;, while on several other occasions, we are told it means &quot;destroy.&quot;  I don't know about German, but for my money, those words may be--but are not necessarily--synonymous.<br />Don't get me wrong--the book is a real achievement and &quot;as I noted&quot; (to use another of Kershaw's pet phrases without the royal 'we'), I would recommend it.  I just think it could have been a little better.	2001-03-24
US	53000124	R1B44SYSGS6I5W	0871138190	754092812	Four Blondes	Books	2	2	2	N	Y	Ugh.	I gave this book two stars only because I figured the first two stories--stupid though they may be--still could get 3 stars while the last two were just completely boring and pointless.  I don't mind tabloid-y, gossipy, trashy novels one bit, but for heaven's sake don't make them boring!  That's the cardinal sin.  I also found myself wondering how the author felt about the 4 main characters in each of the stories as well as the society they all lived in.  The reflexive answer would be that she would probably be just as repulsed by them as all the readers.  But I wonder about that.  First of all, she clearly seems to know the world whereof she writes inside and out.  And how could she know it so well unless she lived it?  And second, look at that photo on the back!  It looks as if she is EXACTLY like one of the characters in her little novellas (with slightly less blonde hair).  With her come-hither expression and attempted seductive pose, I was thinking, maybe this is Janey Wilcox and Princess Cecelia.  So maybe her view of these women is more understanding (maybe even approving) than all the readers seemed to find them.	2001-03-06
US	53000124	RKKKWDXP2UBVX	0385498330	270330581	First and Last Seasons: A Father, A Son, and Sunday Afternoon Football	Books	4	2	4	N	Y	Very good	I felt this was a fine book and would recommend it to most anyone.  I did have a few random observations and minor quibbles however:<br />1.  The chronology was incredibly scattershot, like a pinball wildly careening between bumpers.  He seems to move backwards and forwards in time on practically every page in the book.  Sometimes it was not clear whether--in connection with what was going on in his own life--his father had died or was in the hospice just about to die or was merely sick. <br />2.  The topics discussed also seemed rather scattered in that it seemed that virtually any page in the book could have been placed somewhere else and it wouldn't have made much difference to the &quot;flow&quot;.  This is because, for both of the reasons given here, there really wasn't any &quot;flow&quot; to begin with.  However, despite the lack of flow, I felt that he is a good enough writer and &quot;raconteur&quot; (as his Dad referred to himself) that it was interesting to read whatever he had to say.<br />3.    The business about drinking became a little tiring after a while.  It seemed as if on virtually every page, there were stories about the author getting drunk, his friends getting drunk, Browns' fans getting drunk, over and over again.  I recognize that this was all in the service of gritty honesty and unvarnished truth, but still...we get the point.  You drink alot and, apparently all those depressed people in Cleveland drink  alot.<br />4.    Finally, Mr. McGraw doesn't strike me as a very likable guy.  But then I thought to myself:  if a guy can that brutally honest in his own self-assessment (after all, I don't know anything about him except what he tells me) and such a good writer to boot, how bad can he be?  Anyway, read the book.	2001-02-21
US	53000124	RN5K2TKGQQVBX	1565122704	496986997	Rescuing Jeffrey	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Highly recommended	If ever a book forced a reader to consider the vagaries of life, and what life is all about, this is it.  Moreover, I thought that Mr. Galli had an excellent writing style, straightforward, muscular and unflinching, just right for this incredibly sad story.  I also thought that the notes of support from the Galli's friends and acquaintances were a real addition to the book.  They show us not only the meaning of what it is to have close friends, but perhaps as importantly, how people instinctly can pull together to support and rally around those who they may not even count as close friends, but who are mere acquaintances.   <br />       I did have a few very minor quibbles.  One is that I was surprised that there was hardly any discussion whatsoever about how the accident actually happended.  All we are basically told is that Jeffrey dove into a pool and hit his head.  Well if I dive into the deep end of a 10-foot pool, I'm not going to hit my head, so that is obviously not what happened here.  But what did happen?  Did he &quot;dive&quot; into the shallow end.  That doesn't seem so likely.  Did he not know how deep it was?  Did he not stick his arms out to break the fall?  I recognize that the &quot;how&quot; is not the point of the book, but I would have expected to see at least a paragraph or two as to exactly what happened (or even to tell the reader that they don't actually know what happened).<br />       Second, while I thoroughly admired the way in which Mr. Galli dealt with this tragedy, I found his own self-regard somewhat off-putting.  I don't mean this in the sense of how thoughts or emotions or acts in terms of Jeff's situation per se.  Rather, it seemed as if, when dealing with aspects of his life not directly involving Jeff (i.e the author's pre-accident life), I felt that he was not lacking in self-praise as to his panoply of talents.  I could be wrong about that of course, but that was the sense I had.  Despite that, I still feel that the book is a real achievement and Jeff is lucky to have such a father.	2001-02-14
US	53000124	R1HSTMQCF381XT	0300087004	382088109	Humanity: A Moral History of the Twentieth Century	Books	5	16	23	N	Y	Superb.	Really an excellent and thoughtfully written book.  I wholeheartedly recommend it.  One of the issues I kept thinking about however, was the author's brief discussion of where Stalin, Hitler and Mao rank on the relative evilness scale.  Glover concludes that Hitler is the worst (&quot;to turn towards Hitler is to look into the deepest darkness of all.&quot;).  There is certainly support for this.  First, neither of the other two targeted an enire race, religion or nationality for death as Hitler did.  Second, while it might be argued that the millions of murders by Stalin and Mao were carried out under their astoundingly perverse belief (but belief nevertheless) that this might, as the author says, &quot;improve people's lives&quot;, which they apparently had a &quot;genuine desire to do&quot;,  Hitler, by contrast, merely hated the Jews.  Third, from what I am aware, the killings by Stalin and Mao were mostly within the borders of their own countries while the same is certainly not true of Hitler (think Poland, for starters).  Finally, when one speaks about these three today, Hitler elicits instant revulsion while many people don't really even know who the other two are, or if they do, they have only a cloudy notion of who they were and what they were about, and certainly don't think of those two as &quot;evil incarnate&quot; the way we tend to think of Hitler.  And yet, there is an argument to be made that the other two are even worse than Hitler.  (I realize that to compare degrees of evil may carry the suggestion that if a person is &quot;less evil&quot; in a certain respect, then they are actually not terrible, or that their actions are somehow &quot;condonable&quot;.  That is obviously not my intent, but merely a necessary hazard of an exercise where you ask &quot;Who is the most evil?&quot;.)<br />First of all, as the author notes, both Stalin and Mao caused far, far more people to be killed than did Hitler.  Second, it seems that the life of the ordinary German was much better under Hitler than the ordinary Russian or Chinese person under Stalin or Mao.  Of course, if you were a Jewish person (as I am) or another &quot;weaker non-Aryan&quot; undesirable, this seems absurd.  However, it seems as if there was so much paranoia, terror and fear under the other two, that literally EVERY person living under Stalin or Mao lived a nightmarish existence every day, regardless of their race, religion, nationality or anything else about them.  If they were not murdered or sent away to camps, they nevertheless must have lived every day in the most abject fear that one of these things could happen.  No one could talk freely to anyone, not even members of their own family.  While Hitler--as with all dictators--clearly had a degree of paranoia--witness the Ernst Rohm killing in 1934--it seemed to be limited more towards top officials who seemd to be a threat, and also seemed to be less and less of a factor as he started to consolidate his power in the mid to late-30's.  But Stalin and Mao, by contrast, seemed to be obsessively concerned not only with the higher-ups in their respective parties but also with virtually every man, woman, and child in the entire country.  This meant that the killings cut across every category.  Finally, it would seem as if Germany was a far stronger and healthier country in, say, 1940, then in 1933, while I question whether the same can be said of the other two countries.  Obviously this is again absurd if one is Jewish, but as noted before, when comparing evil people, everything is relative.  Of course, Germany in 1945, was a far different story than 1940, but it recovered.  As far as I can tell however, China and Russia were crappy and depressing places before the War, during the War, after the War and ever since.<br />I suppose one way to look at this perverse issue is as follows:  If you were going to be transported back into one of the three countries in, say 1935, and your race, religion and nationality was completely up to chance--i.e. selected at random with no bearing on what you are now, which of these horrible places would you pick?  (Of course, this doesn't account for the possibility of being in certain other countries, such as Poland, which seem to have been the brunt of everyone's evil.)	2001-02-10
US	53000124	R1C78DZFAA65I8	0786862661	460152097	I Loved You All: A Novel	Books	4	6	9	N	Y	Very good	I thought this book was provocative and would certainly recommend it.  I did have a few qualms and comments however.  <br />1.  First, one of the problems with a first-person narrative is that it often requires that narrator to be present when significant events are occurring or significant dialogue is spoken.  In some novels, this is not such a difficult feat, particularly where the narrator is the so much the dominant character that everything revolves around him or her.  In this book however, there were at least a half dozen significant characters besides Penny, and whose lives were simulataneous undergoing a series of twists and turns.  These facts required the author to &quot;accidentally&quot; place Penny in any number of situations where her presence was necessary to hear and relate the dialogue.  Many of these set-ups were highly unrealistic, either because her presence was known and inexplicably ignored by the adults around her or because she was sneaking all over the place and invariably &quot;just happened&quot; to be present when all sorts of crucial dialogue was taking place.  The scene in the trailer near the end of the book is particularly good example of this, though there are a number of others. <br />2. I found Mahalia to be relentlessly depressing in her role as the &quot;little Isabel&quot;. Isabel's personality can be well understood and condoned/forgiven (depending on your politics).  But Mahalia was at a stage in life where she should have been joyous and carefree.  There was something unnatural about a beautiful 15-year old relishing her role as a &quot;young spinster&quot;.  Having said that however, I was surprised (and found it somewhat unrealistic) at how little it took to make her abandon her seemingly hardened views and engage in her volte-face.<br />3.  In her own way, I found Marguerite to be much more compassionate and understanding towards those in her life (including Isabel) than the cold-hearted Mahalia.<br />4.   Finally, I was intrigued by the poem itself.  When I first read it, there was no doubt in my mind that it was anti-abortion; I didn't even know that there was any question about it.  But then after reading about how the characters in the book (and thus presumably the author) viewed the poem, I was not so sure.  For example, the staunchly pro-life Isabel and her like-minded colleagues clearly detested it.  In addition, the teacher Mr. Brewer, in trying to get her to reconsider, says that &quot;it's not even straightforwardly pro-abortion--its ambiguous and provocative,&quot; as if to imply that on a casual reading, most people would assume that it WAS pro-abortion.  This interpretation never occurred to me for a moment.  I wonder what others think about this.	2001-01-05
US	53000124	RG8I6DSF4DKAT	0385492235	660764425	An Invisible Sign of My Own	Books	3	3	6	N	Y	I could use some help with this.	I suppose that it probably isn't hard to find readers more erudite than I who &quot;got&quot; what the book was all about.  I certainly assume that the author was trying to tell us something or had some message for us, but for the life of me I couldn't discern it.  I also assume that that with respect to the numerous little subplots--(1) Ann, (2) the ax, (3) Lisa, (4) Lisa's mother, (5) Mr. Jones, (6) his numbers, (6) Mona's father and his illness, (6) the science teacher and his classes, (7) the soap, (8) the knocking, (9) the math, etc., etc.--there must have been some theme or common link running through them, but I couldn't tell what it was.  Death? Fear? Overcoming fear? If not connected, all we would have is a series of unrelated vignettes being told simultaneously, which I assume was not the author's intent.  Finally, while I would not be surprised if many readers who adored the book told themselves (or people like me) that it was &quot;obvious&quot; to them what the themes were, I would be suspicious of that opinion unless those people all reached the same conclusion.  After all, what good is it to say that the answer is &quot;easy&quot; or &quot;obvious&quot; when every person has a different answer?	2000-12-07
US	53000124	R373BXYROUE11R	0767903854	430278994	In a Sunburned Country	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Excellent.  Highly recommended, with only a minor quibble.	I read alot of books and I have to say that, of all the authors I have read, Bill Bryson has to qualify as just about the most fluid, easygoing, natural writer I know.  While I have to write for my profession, I don't consider myself within 1,000 miles of the abilities of those who can write a good novel or work of nonfiction.  However, by that yardstick, I don't even consider myself on the same planet as Bryson.  It is almost impossible for him to write a dull paragraph.  Plus, he's not predictable. For example, whenever he is on the verge of deeming everything he comes across in Australia as just wonderful, he'll surprise you by saying that such-and-such a place is actually kind of dull.  Whenever he is on the verge of opining that every Australian he met was a wonderful person, he'll then tell us that he met a few jerky people along the way as well.  <br />I have sometimes heard the word &quot;incurious&quot; as a disparagement of George W. Bush. I mention this because Bryson strikes me as about as curious as they come.  And because his writing and storytelling are so excellent, he makes the reader curious as well, even about things that they might not otherwise have cared about.<br />My only quibble with the book is that it focuses almost exclusively on a tourist's perspective of Australia as opposed to a resident's perspective.  Of course, given that Bryson WAS in fact merely a tourist, this is understandable.  However, I would have been interested to learn a little bit more about the culture of the country.  For example, what are their marriage and divorce rates?  What do Australians say about satisfaction with their lives?  What are the average income levels for various professions and what is the purchasing power of those income levels?  How much poverty is there?  What do people complain about in Australia?  Where do they go for vacation?  What are their attitudes towards tourists?  How much vacation do they take?  How does their doctor and hospital systemwork?  How does their legal system work?   What is the crime situation (I assume low from everything Bryson says, but there must be some criminals).  And so on.  As I say, this was not the aim of his book, but I still would have been curious to know about some of these things.   All of this occurred to me as I was finishing the book.  I realized from the book that I would absolutely love to visit Australia, but as to the question of whether I would like to actually LIVE there, I realized that the book did not help me so much in that direction.  Nevertheless, for me this was clearly a 5-star effort.	2000-11-30
US	53000124	R29IISS834C93R	0312261845	10488731	Joe College	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Not his best, but still recommended	I agree almost completely with the two reviews which precede this--namely that I didn't think it was as good as the masterly &quot;Wishbones&quot; or &quot;Election&quot;, but I'd recommend it anyway.  In fact, though I read alot of novels, I have to say that Perotta is one of the very few authors whose new books I will buy just because of who wrote it.  His writing style is simple yet elegant, his ear for dialogue excellent, and it is impossible for him to be dull.  Yet somehow, it seemed to me as if the whole was slightly less than the sum of the parts.  If you haven't read any of his works, I might suggest reading them in the order they were written (starting with The Wishbones), and if you have, Joe College is still enjoyable reading.	2000-11-20
US	53000124	R851JEWEHWYS6	015100529X	10521068	A Hole in the Earth	Books	3	9	17	N	Y	I can't give it more than 3 stars .... so sue me.	In the face of all these 5 star reviews, I will likely be excoriated for giving it anything less, but we have to be honest with our feelings, right?  In fairness, I do have to say that the last quarter of the book was quite strong and better than the material that preceded it.  I did however have two problems with the book.  The more minor problem was that it just seemed so relentlessly depressing for almost the entire way through.  While there is some evidence of a &quot;hopeful&quot; ending (it would be wrong and overly simplistic to call it a &quot;happy&quot; ending), by that point the book was almost over.  <br />By far my larger problem with the book however, was Henry Porter, the narrator.  I have read few first-person novels where the narrator is such an annoying and obviously dislikeable person. I read where one person thought he had a &quot;big heart&quot;  Come again?  I found him to be an impulsive, hot-headed, cold-hearted, disputatious, incredibly selfish and self-centered gambling addict.  He never had the right words for the moment (other than his speech at the end), never a bon mot, and never rose to the occasion (again putting aside the funeral).  He had no charm, no wit, and no other characteristics that would have made him a likeable person.  In virtually every one of his dealings with both Nicole and Elizabeth, it seemed that everything he did and said was exactly the wrong thing, and I was frankly surprised that they didn't run away from him far sooner than they did. In fact he usually made me cringe, especially around poor Nicole.  And I don't buy the argument that &quot;underneath it all, he's really a good man&quot; for a second.<br />If this novel were not written in the first person, I may have reacted less negatively to Henry.  But in most first person novels, the narrator is almost by necessity a likeable character.  After all, to some extent, the narrator's voice is the author's voice and vice versa.  His or her insights, perceptions, sense of humor and worldview may well be tied up with the author's.  This is not to say that a first person narrator has to be perfect by any means.  Far from it.  In fact, I find that many first person narrators are often quite self-effacing and only too willing to point out their own flaws.  Of course, Henry shared these traits too.  But whereas many first person narrators are still likeable or funny people in the final analysis, despite their flaws, that just cannot be said of Henry, at least in my view.  The whole time, I just felt like saying to him &quot;Get away from me, you worm!&quot;, but of course, in a first person narrative, that's pretty difficult isn't it?	2000-10-12
US	53000124	R1T98HBLGL0IN8	0609604686	936711332	The Man Who Wrote the Book	Books	5	9	11	N	Y	Five stars, but one flaw....	I really enjoyed this book and thus was surprised to see all the heavy criticism it received.  You know that a book is not going over too well when when only 10% or 20% of the readers find the 5-star reviews helpful, which seemed to be kind of a pattern here.  Nothwithstanding all that, I loved this book, and would heartily recommend it, although I wonder if males may go for it more than females.  Anyway, before I lavish a little praise on the book (which everyone will disagree with anyway), let me get to the flaw (which I will try to do without giving anything away).<br />In any novel, virtually by necessity, certain unrealistic things have to happen; things that are not quite right.  If nothing unrealistic happened, then nothing would happen at all, and you wouldn't have a story.  This pivotal aspect of a novel was well described by the excellent novelist Donald Westlake as follows: <br />&quot;There are moments in almost any novel when it's necessary to move a character from one position to another, so that you can move on with the story...Once the character is moved into the new position, everything is fine, but in order to make the transition, the writer has to bend somehing out of shape.  Some behavior is wrong, some reaction is wrong.  It's a rip in the fabric of the novel, but it's necessary to get the story where it has to go...Other writers, reading the book, might notice the lump in the batter, but most readers won't.&quot;<br />The trick in any novel is to try and make this &quot;rip in the fabric&quot; as unnoticable as possible.  For me, the biggest rip in the fabric here was in fact a reaction, namely the public reaction to Ezra's work product (and I'm being vague here simply so as not to give anything away for those who haven't read the book, but those who have read the book will know exactly what I mean).  That reaction just struck me as totally not credible, namely that such a product would ever, ever work its way into the public consciousness, much less at the speed of the light which this did.  It would be one thing if an author was actually trying to be &quot;high-brow low-brow&quot; (like Nabokov's Lolita, Lawrence's Lady Chatterly's Lover or some similar work by a reputable and known author), but Ezra's work (or should we say Isaac's work?) never had such aims for a second--particularly given that it was a paperback with a dopey title and a voluptuous woman on the cover.  Thus, I could just never buy into that turn of events even for a second.  <br />      Despite that, I though the book was great anyway.  Maybe I'm just not as sophisticated as those who almost snobbishly put down the writing in the book (or gave it backhanded compliments like calling it nice &quot;light&quot; reading or &quot;summer&quot; reading), but I thought that the writing was great, the characters were great, the book was fuuny, the dialogue was funny--in fact, except for the above problem, I liked everything about the book.  It hooked me right from the get-go and didn't let go the whole way through.  In short, I recommend it highly.	2000-09-30
US	53000124	RR12MYJZ0LXIU	0684836696	770654209	Losing the Race: Self-Sabotage in Black America	Books	5	46	60	N	N	Highly thought-provoking, but 1 issue left almost untouched	The author (a fellow Mt Airy-ite) has a thesis which ought to be highly incendiary--which is why it surprises me that to this point it seems to  have generated so little heat.  For example I note that there are no  editorial reviews of the book on the Amazon listing, and I only saw one  myself (in Time magazine).  Nevertheless, this is clearly an issue worthy  of discussion.  <br />The author suggests that the primary reason that blacks  continue to lag behind all other groups in our society is not because of  racism, or other externally-based factors over which blacks have no  control, but rather due to various internal &quot;self-sabotaging&quot;  factors, which they impose on themselves.  These include (1) constantly  perceiving of themselves as victims of racism and other evils  (&quot;victimology&quot; as McWhorter calls it), (2) holding themselves as  separate and apart from all other groups in society  (&quot;separatism&quot;), which prevents them from being fully integrated  into society as a whole (which is rather ironic because this means that  blacks have voluntarily imposed upon themselves the very same  &quot;separate but equal&quot; doctrine which was the heinous law of the  land for the first half of the last century until it was rejected in Brown  v. Board of Education) and (3) the cult of anti-intellectualism, in which  blacks essentially ostracize those among them who endeavor to excel  academically.<br />I was thinking about McWhorter's book just this morning,  when the headline on page 1 of the local paper said something to the effect  of:  &quot;Test score disparity between blacks and whites is  widening.&quot;  Thus, it would appear that the effects which McWhorter is  describing are virtually unassailable. The question is: Has be adequately  covered all of the possible causes?  <br />What I was kept thinking while  reading this fascinating book (which was certainly reminiscent of Shelby  Steele's equally excellent &quot;The Content of Our Character&quot;, to  which McWhorter acknowledges his debt) is: What about the potential 6,000  pound elephant sitting in the room?  (And now let me be even more  incendiary than McWhorter.)  It is possible that another explanation for  the symptoms which he so persuasively lays out is that there is some merit  to The Bell Curve and that blacks are not as smart as whites on average?   This is a question which McWhorter seems to hover around from time to time  but one as to which he never really seems to provide his real views on  (other than at one point to say &quot;Don't go there&quot;, which doesn't  help a whole lot).<br />Let me make two qualifying remarks here.  First, if we  take away this specific comparsion (i.e. blacks versus whites in the field  of academic performance), is it not an unremarkable proposition to suppose  that there may be inherent differences between various groups in various  areas?  If you think that the answer is no, read the book &quot;Taboo&quot;  about black athletic superiority, to take just one example.  I have also  read that Asians tend to be smarter, on average, than white people.  And I  have no problem acknowledging that another group may, on average, be  smarter than mine.<br />This leads to my second point, which explains why I  can readily acknowledge the potential &quot;average&quot; superiority of  another group.  Note that I have repeatedly used the qualification &quot;on  average&quot; in the preceding paragraph.  This is significant.  To  illustrate, take a left to right sliding scale from 1 to 100, where 1 is  the least intelligent and 100 is the most intelligent.  Then take millions  of grains of sand and pour them along this scale.  Each grain represents a  different person in our country (or on our planet.)  Each ethnic group is  assigned a different color (say white, black and brown).  Even though the  &quot;average&quot; brown (Asian) grain of sand may be farther to the right  than the &quot;average&quot; white grainof sand, this is not to say that  there may not be millions millions of individual white grains which are  further to the right than the average brown grain.  And there probably are.   Similarly, millions and millions of black grains are probably further to  the right than either the average white grain or brown grain.  Indeed a  white or black grain may be furthest to the right of all.  (In fact,  McWhorter seems to be pretty darn far to the right himself, and much  further than I am.)  Based on all of this, I can tell myself (as can we  all) that whether or not I am in the smartest &quot;average&quot; group or  not, I myself may theoretically be the grain which is farthest to the right  of all.  (Well, very probably not, but you get the idea.)  The points are  that (1) possible inherent differences between ethnic groups does not seem  to be an automatic impossibility, and (2) wherever an &quot;average&quot;  group sits on a scale with respect to a given area of skill may say very  little about where any individual member sits on that scale.  <br />I say all  of this because I think that the issue is important enough to at least be  included as part of the discussion as to whether this is in additional  factor for the problems McWhorter describes.  Another way to analyze this  is whether he may have the &quot;cause and effect&quot; reversed.  In other  words, he suggests that the some of the causes are the  &quot;self-sabotaging&quot; factors and the effect is the failure of blacks  as whole to achieve in our society in proportion to their numbers.  But  could it be that another one of the causes is the Bell Curve factor (in  which some blacks may try at first and not succeed), and only then seize  onto the self-sabotaging factors as a means of explanation?  I have read  The Bell Curve and although it seems quite persuasive, I confess that I  have no idea as to whether what it says is true or not.  I know that many  feel it is not.  But I do feel that this issue at least warrants some  discussion in the context of McWhorter's fine book.	2000-08-25
US	53000124	R2B7XIJOPUJ4X3	0684832836	22408140	Bowling Alone: The Collapse and Revival of American Community	Books	4	27	28	N	Y	Highly thought-provoking and highly persuasive	On the positive side, Putnam's thesis is both important and fascinating.  There is a ton of food for thought in this well written, thought-provoking and somewhat depressing scholarly work.  Moreover, Putnam backs up his  conclusions with solid, nearly overwhelming, evidence.  I also thought that  Chapter 6 (informal social connections) was particularly interesting  because for most Americans, it is these connections that are of most  importance.  Section III (explaining the dropoff in social interactions)  was also particularly excellent. The chapter on technology and mass media  contains the most compelling evidence one will ever see for the dangers of  television.  For these reasons, I would certainly recommend the book to  anyone interested in the state of American society, circa 2000.  (I wonder  what Toqueville would say if he were doing his travels now rather than in  the 1830's and 1840's?)  <br />Havis said this, I could not quite bring myself  to give the book 5 stars.  So much of it was SO dense and statistic-laden  that moving through much of the book was like walking through a 2-foot  snowdrift--every step a chore.  Not all of the book was like this, mind  you, but alot of it was. Instead of 400 pages of text and 100 pages of  footnotes and appendices, it might have been better if those numbers were  reversed.<br />Finally, I must comment on the many charts in Section 4 which  show all of the correlations between levels of social capital in various  States and various quality of life measures (health, violence, TV watching,  crime, etc.)  Based on these charts, if someone were coming to this country  for the first time with their family and deciding where to settle, they  would be foolish not to settle in one of the Dakotas, which scored first  and second on just about every quality of life index.  But something must  be wrong with this picture.  It just isn't too often that you hear people  singing the praises of North Dakota or South Dakota as being Nirvana-like  places to live (or about people moving there in droves).  The same is true  for the other states that scored well--e.g. Nebraska, Montana, etc.  Maybe  the depressing message is that the only way to have high levels of social  capital (and all of the posiitve things that go with it) in 21st century  America is to live in a place where there is so little going on and where  the climate may be lousy, that people are forced to interact with another  on a more frequent basis than if one lived in say, San Francisco.  If so,  that's a real Hobson's choice.  You have a choice of living in a place  where there is great community life (because there is nothing to do other  than community life in that area) or live in place that has many more  inherently desirable characteristics and far lower levels of social capital  (and all the negatives that go with that).  Perhaps it is too stark to  present the choice this way, but that certainly seems to be the message to  be derived from Putnam's charts.	2000-07-27
US	53000124	R238702NWINPXP	0375503781	362233026	Get Happy: The Life of Judy Garland	Books	4	14	20	N	N	I recommend it, notwithstanding all the negative reviews	Although I do not consider myself the world's foremost Judy Garland  expert, I am nevertheless a fan and would easily recommend this book to  anyone interested in her life.  I was surprised by all of the angry one and  two star reviews of this bio.  As far as I could tell, most of them were  written by huge Judy Garland fans who were simply angry that Mr. Clarke was  not sufficiently hagiographic towards their hero, and that he was not  sufficiently appreciative of her talent.  I do not agree with those  conclusions.  I thought that he repeatedly emphasized her unique and  immense talents over and over.  I also felt that while there were certainly  a number of tabloid-y details in the book, Mr. Clarke's overall tone was  still quite balanced towards his subject.  My only gripe was that I wished  he had spent a bit more time discussing &quot;The Wizard of Oz&quot;.  Admittedly, this was not a book about the making of that movie, but it was  still such an important event in her life (and the one for which I feel she  will be most remembered 100 years from now), and such an important event in  film history, that he could have given it more than the passsing discussion  he did.  Anyway, I would recommend the book.	2000-07-10
US	53000124	R2VBAXN2L0DAAP	187844896X	357492431	Gambler's Rose	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Recommended, but ...	As with any novel, I figure that if it holds my interest, if I am curious to see what happens next, if I am enjoying the journey, as opposed to waiting for it to end, it deserves at least 4 stars.  This book met those  criteria for me.  However, I did have a few nits with it that would prevent  me from considering it a classic.  First, I found Music's character to be  somewhat annoying and pedantic, particularly in his dealings with Vince  Arthur and, to a lesser extent, with his sons.  It seemed as if every quote  from him was some sort of soliloquy analogizing the game of poker to the  game of life.  The first few times he did it, it was interesting (and I  have no doubt that such analogies exist), but by the 50th time, it got a  little monotonous.  <br />Second, I felt that most of the dialogue was a bit  too pat, too perfect, too many bon mots.  It didn't seem to be the way  people really converse in gave-and-take conversation.<br />Finally, I felt  that the romances between Charles and Lia and Reggie and Bobby were a bit  too instantaneous.  There was no build up at all.  Both women met both men  and seemed to immediately fall for them.  <br />Having said all of that, I  still consider it a 4-star book.	2000-07-02
US	53000124	R2MRSIKPKWVQ7X	0786865539	30407008	My Goodness: A Cynic's Short-Lived Search for Sainthood	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Very amusing	This was the first thing I have read by Mr. Queenan (and somehow I sensed that most readers of this book were already quite familiar with his work).  I thought he was an excellent writer and there were a number of amusing  moments in the book.  The one thing that gnawed at me for the entire book  however was my inability to decide whether the author's  &quot;conversion-to-goodness&quot; experience was, on one hand, (1) simply  a one-time lark--i..e gist for new comedy material that he would  &quot;try&quot; for as long as it took to write the book, and that he never  really believed in for a second, or (2) meant as a permanent life-altering  experience, at least when he started out on this new approach to life.   There seemed to be some evidence in the book supporting both answers,  although on balance, it seemed as if the first alternative comes much  closer to the truth, even though he never comes right out and admits that.   He just seemed to be tongue-in-cheek way too often, not to mention the  dozens of references to Ben and Jerry's, Susan Sarandon, Alec Baldwin,  etc., and his &quot;non-apology apologies&quot; to various people.  Anyway,  I would recommend the book.	2000-07-02
US	53000124	R30HIZ465EQ5EU	0375502955	197934308	A Vast Conspiracy: The Real Story of the Sex Scandal That Nearly Brought Down a President	Books	5	12	19	N	Y	5 stars at least as to the quality of the book....	Ordinarily, to review a book is to analyze whether or not the author did a good job writing it.  For example, was it well written?  Did it hold the reader's interest?  Was it well researched?  And so on.  However, when  people review books on such hot-button topics as Bill and Hillary Clinton,  there is a pattern which almost invariably holds true and one which has  nothing to do with the above concept of a &quot;normal&quot; book review:   those who agree with the author's views rate these books highly, while  those who disagree with the author's viewpoint will pan it.  <br />For  example, take a book which is highly supportive of Bill and/or Hillary  Clinton (or at least highly critical of the anti-Bill and Hillary forces).  You will rarely, if ever, hear a anti-Clinton person say:  &quot;I really  disagreed with what the author had to say, but this was a really  well-written book!&quot; (even if it was).  Conversely, a pro-Clinton  person will rarely criticize such a book even if it was complete trash, in  terms of quality.  Of course, the same rules hold true for anti-Clinton  books as well.  The reason for these patterns is obvious: people aren't  opining on the quality of the book, they're opining on whether or not they  agree with the author's substantive views.  <br />With this book, let's use a  scale from 1 to 10, with 1 being those who would pace all of the blame of  the Paula Jones/ Monica Lewinsky/Bill Clinton impeachment saga squarely on  the shoulders of the actual or perceived anti-Clinton forces (his enemies  in Arkansas, Ken Starr, the House Republicans, etc., etc.), and 10 being  those who would place all of the blame on Clinton himself.  On that scale,  I would put Toobin at about a 3 (and before Clinton's January, 1998  deposition in the Paula Jones case, even lower than that).  <br />Although I  would put myself at a higher number (not 10, but certainly higher than  Toobin), I nevertheless gave the book 5 stars--thus making myself an  exceptionto my own rule of thumb.   This is because, if I attempt to  evaluate the book in a &quot;pure book review&quot; fashion, and not simply  based on whether I agree with the author, I have to give credit where it is  due.  I find Toobin to be an excellent writer who rarely writes a dull  paragraph.  The book held my interest throughout, and I would strongly  recommend it to anyone who was interested in this subject, regardless of  their political persuasions.<br />HOWEVER, if I were to review the book just  based on whether or not I agree with Toobin (as I contend most people do),  I would give it about 3 stars.   It is true that Toobin has some harsh  words for Clinton, and that he does not hesitate to call him a liar based  on his Paula Jones deposition (unlike, say, the House Democrats, who had an  almost comical inability to utter the &quot;L word&quot; at any time, no  matter how obvious the lies may have been).  In addition, using my scale  above, it would be hard for someone to read this book and not have their  grade moved down by at least a point or two (unlike they were a James  Carville-type who started out at a 1 to begin with.)<br />On the whole  however, I felt that there was too many occasions, where he simply chose  not to include facts which would have hurt Clinton's case, or in which he  would acknowledge Clinton's errors on a micro perspective, but then  immediately attempt to justify them on a macro perspective.  A few  miscellaneous examples of these 2 points:<br />1.    When Clinton said  &quot;it depends what the meaning of 'is' is&quot;, Toobin calls the remark  &quot;foolish&quot;, but then immediately calls his &quot;larger  point&quot; a &quot;fair one.&quot;  That's ridiculous.<br />2.    On  Hillary's remark about a &quot;vast right- wing conspiracy&quot;, he first  says that if you &quot;parse the words&quot; the phrase but does &quot;hold  up&quot;, but then immediately says it has &quot;the unmistakable ring of  truth&quot;.<br />3.  With regard to Clinton's infamous September 17 speech  just after his grand jury testimony, he first briefly criticizes it, and  then immediately says that &quot;the public embraced it.&quot;  That  certainly was not my recollection.<br />4.    He takes Lucianne Goldberg&quot;  to task for calling some Arkansans &quot;trailer trash&quot;, but never  mentions that James Carville said the exact same thing about Paula  Jones.<br />5.    On the issue of the definition of &quot;sexual  relations&quot;, the videotape clearly shows Clinton listening attentively  while his lawyer Bob Bennett declared unequivocally that there was &quot;no  sex of any kind&quot; between Clinton and Lewinsky.  Toobin gives Clinton a  free pass on this one , saying it wasn't Clinton's job to monitor what  Bennett said, a defense I found weak indeed.<br />6.   He mentions that, in  1974, the House Committee voted to reject an article of impeachment that  involved Nixon's cheating on his income taxes, but fails to note that most  democrats voted FOR this article.<br />There are other examples as well, which  often left me with the feeling that Toobin was frequently trying to  persuade us with a legal brief, rather than a completely even-handed  telling of the story.  However, for all of that, I still gave the book 5  stars, I think Toobin is a fine writer (and not unpersuasive) and would  still recommend it.	2000-06-18
US	53000124	R2C3FE86UA72V7	0446525367	828168267	Crazy for Cornelia	Books	3	10	14	N	Y	I feel like a minority of one ...	On the  positive side, it was a cute story and it did hold my interest--always a  kind of threshold test for any novel.  In addition, I felt that the  doorman's perspective on life and the material on Tesla were interesting as  well.  However, I did have 3 complaints with the story, which are as  follows:<br />First, it was very predictable.  The author lets you know loudly  and clearly where the story is headed as far as Kevin and Cornelia are  concerned, right from the first chapters, and then he heads inexorably  towards that destination.  Thus, while there were a few little surprises  along the way, I felt that there was basically no sense of suspense as far  as the &quot;big picture&quot; was concerned.  I knew exactly how the story  would end, and I'm sure others did as well.  That for me was a problem.  A  book is always better when readers ask themselves: &quot;I wonder how this  story will end?&quot;  That could not be said of this book.<br />Second, I  felt that many--though not all--of the characters were somewhat  one-dimensional stick figures without any sense of nuance to their  personality.  In particular, I am thinking of Tucker Fisk and Chester Lord.   The author has given them each a dominant character trait, and they never  seem to veer from those traits.<br />Finally, it just seemed to me that this  kind of story has been told so many times before (and maybe that's why I  thought the story was predictable).  You know the type--a girl (or  sometimes a guy) in the upper echelons of society falls hard for a guy (or  girl) well below her &quot;rank and station&quot; (as Gilbert and Sullivan  might have put it), often in preference over a person who is seemingly her  equal in terms of societal status.<br />So while I certainly would not say the  book is terrible by any means, I just didn't see it as the 5-star  masterpiece which most others have found it to be.	2000-05-26
US	53000124	R288LJKMB0QLPA	0316897752	451518791	The Devil and Sonny Liston	Books	4	9	13	N	N	Highly recommended	If one can adjust to the author's somewhat unconventional writing style (and I did), this is an excellent biography for anyone who is interested in Liston's life.  It is clearly a heartfelt biography.  Several things  surprised me about both Liston's life and Tosches' views of it.  For  example, I had always thought the question of whether Liston threw the  second Ali fight in Lewiston, Maine was one of the those unanswerable  issues which was never going to be definitively resolved.  Certainly that  was the opinion of David Remnick in his excellent bio of Muhammad Ali,  &quot;King of the World&quot;.  Yet, Tosches is clearly of the view, not  only that the second Ali-Liston fight was fixed, and that the first fight a  year earlier was fixed as well, but also that history does not even record  any doubts about either of these &quot;facts.&quot;   He records the two  fights as being fixed, as matter-of-factly as if one were to state  unequivocally that more than one gunman was involved in the assassination  of JFK.  It's not that the opinions might not theoretically be correct,  it's just that one ought to concede that there are varying viewpoints, as  Remnick does.<br />The other thing that surprised me was that, before reading  the book, I had always been of the view that the Mafia was an unmitigated  negative force in Liston's life, and that things might have been a whole  lot different (read: whole lot better), had Liston's path never crossed  that of the mob.  And yet, in reasing this book, I got the sense that they  actually did more positive thingsfor him than negative and actually allowed  him to rise through the ranks and get a shot at the title.  Of course,  whether this is accurate obviously depends in part on whether the mob  forced him to throw one or both of the Ali fights.  Anyway, it was a very  good book and one which I recommend.	2000-05-19
US	53000124	R2NWQHF27319SW	0892965886	539266918	The Hook	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	Moves along, but not in a class with &quot;The Ax&quot;.	I have to be a bit of a dissenter on this book and I agree with some of the comments of &quot;Konrad&quot;.  In fact, the only reason I gave it 4 stars is due to Westlake's undeniable ability to hold the reader's interest  throughout the book, (which is kind of a threshold test for any novel) as  well as his fascinating insights into the publishing industry.  However, I  was hoping for something as good as The Ax, which I thought to be a  masterpiece, and this was just not in that class.  For one thing, the humor  in The Ax was absent here.<br />One of the major problems I had with the book  was what I would call the &quot;false notes&quot;. This was particularly  ironic, since Westlake refers to these &quot;false notes&quot; himself  right in the middle of the story (although presumably not referring to his  own work).  I could not possibly improve on Westlake's own description of  the problem, so I'll just quote him:<br />&quot;There are moments in almost  any novel when it's necessary to move a character from one position to  another, so that you can go on with the story... [I]n order to make the  transition, the writer has to bend something out of shape.  Some behavior  is wrong, some reaction is wrong.  It's a rip in the fabric of the novel,  but it's necessary to get the story where it has to go.&quot;<br />I thought  that the book abounded with these false notes--instances where characters  simply did not act (or react) in ways that I considered to be realistic  based on who they were, and each time it was jarring.  For example:<br />False  note No. 1:  Susan's agreement to go along with Bryce's plan to kill  Lucie.<br />No. 2:  That Wayne would actually carry out the plan and  particularly in the way he did (although, as Westlake admits, if he didn't,  there would be no story).<br />No. 3: That Bryce would spill the beans to his  ex-wife.<br />No. 4.   That Susan would want to suddenly move into Bryce's  apartment (especially at $6,000 a month on their income, and because why  would Wayne ever agree to that and risk identification by the  doorman?).<br />No. 5.   That the New York Review of Books would ask Wayne, an  (almost) unheard of author, to interview the famous Bryce Proctorr, because  &quot;he had written the same sort of the novel in the  past.&quot;<br />Somehow, none of these scenes sat right with me.  Finally, I  also thought that the ending was rather abrupt and hurried.  For example,  what happened to Detective Johnson's investigation.  Despite all of this, I  don't think any readers would be bored--but don't expect another  &quot;Ax&quot; either.	2000-05-13
US	53000124	R1X8PAN0IV5TZD	0151004897	580854397	Scar Vegas: And Other Stories	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	The variety of stories is breathtaking.	In truth, if half stars were available, I might have given this collection of short stories 4 1/2 stars, but I still though it was great.  The stories were varied not only in their subject matter but in their style of being  told, almost to the point where it feels that each story was written by a  completely different author.  In addition, they range from broad comedy to  real tragedy to astute social commentary to everything in between.  Quite  an accomplishment.  My only slight reservation was that, while I considered  the second 5 stories to be very good, they were not in my view as uniformly  excellent as the first five, which were truly great.  In particular, I felt  that the &quot;Unapproved Minutes of the Carthage, Vermont, Zoning  Board&quot; (absolutely hilarious) and &quot;The Spoon Children&quot; were  the best of the group.  Buy the book and enjoy it.	2000-05-05
US	53000124	R1L41HTUHCY5HI	0895262746	350670764	Hell to Pay: The Unfolding Story of Hillary Rodham Clinton	Books	3	82	105	N	Y	I was disappointed...	Let's face it, when readers evaluate books which address such hot-button topics as Hillary Clinton, they are rarely addressing the quality of the book itself, but rather whether or not they agree with the author's point  of view, regardless of whether the book is well written or not.  I mean how  often does one hear:  &quot;I love and admire Hillary Clinton, but I really  thought that this was a well written book!&quot;  Or the opposite:  &quot;I  think Hillary is scum, but this book was lousy too!&quot;  Answers: almost  never.  ... <br />       Moreover, because people rarely have middle-of-the road feelings about  Hillary, that explains why there are very few reviews of this book that are  not 1 or 5 stars.  As I said, people aren't reviewing the book per se,  they're opining on Hillary.<br />       Having said that, let me make make  myself a slight exception to what I just said....  While not perhaps a rabid Hillary-hater, I am at  least a severe Hillary skeptic, and was receptive to a book which could  crystallize some of my negative feelings.  And yet, I was disappointed with  the book.  <br />     I should have been tipped off by the unfairly  unflattering cover photograph of Hillary.  I was further made suspect by  the fact that the only blurb on the back was from Rush Limbaugh, as if to  say: &quot;If you're a dittohead, this book is for you!&quot;  (For the  record, I consider myself a conservative Republican, but not one who aligns  himself with Pat Robertson, the NRA, Rush Limbaugh or Pat Buchanan.  I  wonder if that's a contradiction?)<br />      While I have generally been  impressed by Ms. Olson's commentary on her many TV appearances, this book  just seemed to have a tabloid feel to it.  In addition, many of the damning  observations came not from disinterested third parties but from Ms. Olson  herself.  Also, there was nothing really new in the book--just a re-telling  of well-known stories.  As a contrasting example of a scholarly  &quot;trashing&quot; of someone that I found to be far more persuasive  (albeit a bit old now), read David Brock's &quot;The Real Anita Hill.&quot;	2000-04-27
US	53000124	R9XPF45TYAQ6G	0786706589	102554068	Leading the Cheers: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Recommended.	The inside dust jacket describes this book as &quot;witty and often hilarious&quot; with a &quot;shocking denouement.&quot;  I'm not sure I agree with any of those descriptions, but I nevertheless found the book  moving and enjoyed it immensely.  Very thought-provoking, with a number of  interesting themes running throughout. I also agree with the &quot;Literary  Review&quot; comment to the effect that this is a rare book about &quot;the  kind of America nobody (read: none of us upper-crust coastal snobby  intellectuals) knows or cares about.&quot;  I would certainly recommend it.   With respect to the reviewer who commented on the apparent inconsistency  between 1996 and 1998, it was my sense throughout that the book was taking  place in 1996, not only because of the Clinton-Dole campaign, but because  of other references as well.  I would concede that a 28th-year reunion is  somewhat odd, but I just don't recall Dan ever actually describing it as a  30-year reunion, although he does say that the class President has kept in  pastoral touch with the class for &quot;nearly 30 years.&quot;  If in fact  I missed the reference to a 30-year reunion, then I would agree that that  is more than a minor flaw, given the importance placed on dates in the  book.	2000-04-21
US	53000124	R1LQU7LPB8X7EG	055310666X	284106836	False Memory	Books	3	3	4	N	Y	Entertaining? Reasonably.  Imaginative?  No.	I bought this book because I really enjoyed the only other Koontz book I read, &quot;Intensity&quot;.  While, I certainly wouldn't call this one horrible, I didn't enjoy it nearly as much as Intensity.  First, I would  agree with those who have complained about the unnecessary length of the  book and all of the filler.  It could have easily been hundreds of pages  less with no loss of plot, background, atmosphere, or anything else.  Second, I was troubled by his blatant rip-off of The Mancurian Candidate,  merely updating the same concepts of that novel and applying them to  ordinary late-20th century people, as opposed to the political and Cold War  backdrop of Condon's novel.  Of course, he doesn't hide his debt to The  Manchurian Candidate.  In fact, he makes the novel an actual (and even  integral) part of the story, first in a coy manner--&quot;This is Ben  Marco&quot;; &quot;This is Raymond Shaw&quot;--and then in a more direct  manner,when the novel itself becomes part of the plot.  However, this does  not change the fact that he is still blatantly appropriating Condon's ideas  and simply applying them to &quot;Koontz characters&quot; in the modern  day.  In fact, without giving anything away, one could say that there  appears to be a parallel between the main characters in this book and many  of the main characters in The Manchurian Candidate.  My guess is that the  less familiarity one has with the novel The Manchurian Candidate or the  movie of the same name, the more likely one would be to enjoy this book,  because it would seem that everyhting is coming right from Koontz himself.  Thus, although Koontz still has the ability to entertain, I would hope that  in the future, he does so using his own ideas rather than those of others.	2000-04-18
US	53000124	RQMAELJUXZ2JB	0375408223	789029832	The Verificationist	Books	1	27	33	N	Y	Not for me.	Sometimes, when a book is CLEARLY schlocky, poorly written and/or unentertaining, it is easy to pan it without a second thought.  With other books, however--which for the reader share only the  &quot;unentertaining&quot; part--but which are otherwise not poorly written  and on a more sophisticated level, one must step back and ask oneself:  Let's wait a minute.  Is it possible that this is a work of creative genius  and that I simply don't &quot;get it.&quot;  That my imagination and/or  intellect may be too limited to appreciate what a wonderful (provocative,  intelligent, well-crafted, etc., etc.) book this actually is?<br />Well I  asked myself those kinds of questions, and while I would readily concede  that my reaction may well be a function of my own intellectual limitations,  particularly given all the raves this book got, I don't care--I'm sticking  with my convictions.  I found the book to be almost insufferable  throughout.  It was nearly impossible for me to trudge all the way through-  though I did, page by agonizing page, waiting for it to end.  I simply  can't believe that everyone who reads this book could find it so wonderful,  and if I'm the only one in the world who would recommend against it, so be  it.	2000-04-10
US	53000124	R1C4VRG85VVCSS	0805062858	538222637	Headlong: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A plot flaw ....	Part of this review includes some plot discloure so if you haven't read the book, don't read on.  First, I gave the book 4 stars because I thought it was very well written and frequently funny.  <br />Here's what I didn't like so much about it.  First, I hard a hard time dealing with the fact  that fully 50% of the entire book consisted of a DETAILED exposition of  16th century Netherlandish political, social and artistic history.   However, I'm perfectly willing to concede that my reluctance to plow  through this part of the book (although I did) may be merely a function of  my own intellectual laziness.  <br />More importantly however, I thought that  the book had a significant plot flaw: The whole notion that Martin Clay  would have some preferred right to sell (or purchase for himself) the 3  Dutch paintings if he could sell the Giordano was only in his mind.  Martin  and Tony had only one very brief discussion about this issue, and Tony  didn't really agree to anything about it.  Whatever other personal failings  Tony may have had (and there appear to be many), the notion that he somehow  breached his agreement with Martin by consigning the 3 Dutch paintings to a  third party is clearly not one of them.  To me, this was an obvious risk  that Martin was taking the whole time, and if the author intended this to  be some sort of &quot;plot twist&quot;, it certainly didn't strike me that  way.  Even if Tony knew that it was really the Dutch paintings Martin was  after (and even this is not entirely clear), Tony absolutely never agreed  to give Martin any sort of &quot;right of first refusal.&quot;<br />In  addition, I would suggest that Tony was NOT trying to pull a fast one on  Martin, at least as to the Bruegel painting.  While it was not clear  whether or not Tony had any appreciaton of the value of the other two Dutch  paintings, it appears clear that thought nothing of the Bruegel.  Otherwise  why would he have it stuffed in the fireplace?<br />In short, I felt that the  premise that Martin was operating under the whole book through--i.e. sale  of the Giordano=possession and ownership of the Bruegel, was simply a false  premise on Martin's part, and because this potential flaw turned out to be  a real flaw, I view this as the author's fault.  If I recognized this  potential problem right away, I assume others did as well.  Finally, I must  say that I found the ending somewhat dissatisfying, at least as to the  Bruegel, though not as to the other two Dutch paintings.	2000-03-04
US	53000124	RMCE42LM57W3U	0375406522	312828157	Otherwise Engaged : a Novel	Books	3	2	5	N	Y	This woman is a nightmare ... I think.	Th narrator struck me as the type of person who would engender two totally different reactions in many people, depending mostly on their own gender. As a male (and likely one of the few who read this book), she screamed BAD  NEWS from 100 miles away.  She was manipulative, moody, depressing and  mostly (every male's favorite trait) very high maintenance.  Thus, it was  difficult for me to conceive how Michael could be remotely interested in  her.  But then, I began wondering whether women might have a totally  different reaction to her, and say to themselves:  &quot;I empathize with  this woman!&quot;  &quot;I want to be friends with this woman!&quot;   &quot;I AM this woman!&quot;  I guess that if you liked the narrator you  might like the book, but if you didn't you probably wouldn't, and I'm in  the latter category.	2000-02-24
US	53000124	R1EN48SEO6ZS1B	0684848783	223960215	'Tis: A Memoir	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Recommended, but ...	It's not as good as Angela's Ashes but I would hardly say it's terrible either.  I've noticed that there seems to be an inverse correlation between the (relative) degree of creature comforts present in McCourt's life at any  given time and the quality of the story (and the stories within the story).   In other words, when McCourt is scrubbing toilets and literally unsure of  where his next meal is coming from (i.e. most of the first half of the  book), it is never less than interesting.  By contrast, as McCourt became  closer to settling into middle-class American life (for example when he  started teaching), it seemed that the book began to flag frequently and the  book just wasn't as good.  Of course, by this theory Angela's Ashes itself  should have been--and indeed was-excellent.  After all, it was extreme  suffering throughout.	2000-02-18
US	53000124	R348R7YA5IRR0J	0393048136	217254911	The New New Thing : A Silicon Valley Story	Books	2	11	11	N	Y	Under-, underwhelming	I guess I'm clearly in the minority on this one, but  I was frankly unimpressed by this book.  For one thing, Clark simply didn't strike me as such a fascinating guy.  He may be interesting to the same extent that  anyone who makes billions of dollars may be interesting, but no more so.  (The guy makes his first billion, and decides he wants a bigger better boat  than everyone else.  If that's not a cliche, I don't know what is.)  In  fact, I thought the way he made his money (instant huge wealth based on  IPO's of money-losing companies that he may have first thought of but then  had little to do with) wasn't even that interesting. I also thought the  book lacked a focus and cohesive theme and that all the material about the  Hyperion boat--which takes up huge chunks of the book--was kind of dull.  I  do think that Lewis has a nice writing style and I give him credit for that  (I never read Liar's Poker), but I really can't say that I would highly  recommend this book to anyone.	1999-12-24
US	53000124	RQY0POIAUM2P1	0684844184	69350065	When Pride Still Mattered: A Life of Vince Lombardi	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Excellent--but I had 1 question	Like all of the other reviewers, I loved this book.  But I did have one question which nagged me throughout.  In the very first paragraph of the book, when discussing the derivation of the title, the author says that it  was a phrase taken from Richard Ford's Independence Day (another great  book) and that he suspected that Ford intended the phrase &quot;with a  certain irony&quot;.  Maraniss also says that he was using the phrase  &quot;in the same spirit&quot;.  I would have thought that, when it comes  to Lombardi and his life, the phrase of the title would be taken at face  value.  So, my question for the author, which I would love to know the  answer to, is:  What is the &quot;irony&quot; intended by the title?	1999-12-03
US	53000124	R289PD4S5Z3TR	0671041312	286696000	Lip Service	Books	3	2	3	N	Y	OK, but not 5 stars...and what's with Paul?	I was quite surprised at the effusive praise for this book.  I felt it had kind of an amateurish feel to it.  In addition, I had a BIG problem with the absolutely ridiculous portrayal of Paul the husband.  I can appreciate  that the author envisioned him as a controlling, pedantic, and rather  passionless man, at least in his dealings with his wife.  That's fine.  I'm  sure there are plenty of people like that.  But Ms. Rose took these  characteristics to such an absurd extreme that he became, for me, a totally  unrealistic and unbelievable person.  Instead of being &quot;fleshed  out&quot; (as well drawn characters are sometimes described) , he was the  opposite of that:  a stick figure, a characiture, a completely  one-dimensional character with no nuance whatsoever.  Every single line out  of his mouth (and I mean EVERY line) was some variation on one of the  following: 1.  You're upset/not in control/not up to it.       2. I know  what's best for you.            3. Go back to taking your medication.           4. You're in too delicate a condition.           PLEASE!  I found it to  be totally unrealistic either that Julia would have been attracted to him  in the first place or that she would have stayed with him all those years.   I don't mind if Paul is controlling, pedantic and passionless, but at least  make him a human being and not a complete joke of a character.	1999-10-01
US	53000124	R3VNNRK06BTFOT	0684853027	736882669	Run Catch Kiss: A Gratifying Novel	Books	5	1	3	N	Y	I loved it....	I came to this book with a clean slate:  I do not live in New York, I had never heard of Amy Sohn before reading the book and I don't know anyone who has read the book.  Having said that, I thought the book was great:  very  funny and I liked the author's writing style.  I was not in agreement with  the one and two-star reviews given by the negativos/whiners out there.  I  would have liked it better however if Ariel was closer to, say, 27 rather  than 22, which is soooo young.  A person's fantasy/reality ratio is pretty  skewed at that age. For example, a person's dating travails are probably  more interesting if they are in their late 20's rather than their late  teens (and Ariel is barely past that).  I also wondered if the physical  descriptions of Ariel were those of the author, even though I have nothing  to go on other than her photo on the dust jacket.  For example, at one  point, Ariel says she has frizzzy hair and circles under her eyes (like the  photo), and at another point Ariel says she looks like Carol Kane in the  movie Hester Street (also kind of like the photo).  In any event, I loved  the book and would recommend it--maybe not to everyone, simply because of  ...well, you know...but certainly to alot of people.	1999-08-05
US	53000124	R386KHUC1Y0BLF	0312205872	177340027	Slightly  Chipped: Footnotes in Booklore	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	Good, but...	I had somewhat mixed feelings about this one.  On one hand, I enjoyed the authors' sense of humor, modesty and easygoing, engaging writing style.  (As with Used and Rare however, one must adjust to the unusual first person  plural narrative, in which every quote is uttered by both of them and which  yields such sentences as &quot;We turned the book over in our hands.&quot;)    On the other hand, it seemed as if there wasn't quite enough material to  fill an entire book, which may have caused the authors to go off on a  number of looonnnggg tangents/sidebars.  Some of these I enjoyed, but  others I found very dull (such as the Bloomsbury material, the stuff about  Cudjo, and the biography of William Morris).  I also thought that the  opening of the book showed a bit of false humility, since, despite their  disappointment in not easily finding Used and Rare in the Boston  bookstores, the book obviously sold well enough to warrant their  publisher's OK for a second volume on the same material.  All in all  though, a good book.	1999-07-24
US	53000124	ROLOXR1KHU2UZ	0684849135	103946658	Why We Buy: The Science Of Shopping	Books	3	2	2	N	Y	Interesting, certainly, but ....	On the plus side, this book had alot of fascinating observations about a whole field of study about which I previously didn't really know even existed, much less had given any thought to.  In addition, next time I go  shopping, I will probably stop and consider the extent to which some of the  author's recommendations have (or have not) been implemented.  On the other  hand, the book seemed much too long to me, and rather than hoping it  wouldn't end, I more or less had the opposite reaction:  after awhile, I  found myself skimming over quite a few paragraphs, because I felt that the  interesting points could have been stated in a more concise way.    Repetitiveness was a problem too.  Finally, it seemed as if the majority of  the author's recommendations could be summed up as:  Give the shopper lots  of elbow room (e.g. for strollers, to avoid the butt-brush effect, etc.),  and put all of the merchandise within easy reach (no stooping for older  people, no unneeded reaching for children, etc.).  This sounds fine in  theory, but it would seem that, in practice, the author is effectively  suggesting that in order to accomplish the above two goals, all retailers  should either (1) double the size of their leasehold space, or (2) reduce  the amount of their inventory in half.   I doubt that either of these  options would be feasible for most retailers, and that the reason that some  of them don't follow the author's recommendations to the letter is not  because they are unaware of them, or even disagree with them, but simply  because neither of the above solutions would be considered feasible.	1999-07-05
US	53000124	R74TNQRXWERHB	068816711X	216433293	Music for Torching	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Extremely readable, but as for the ending...	I find Ms. Homes to be an excellent writer and have enjoyed all of her work.  When she writes her next book, I'm sure that I'll buy that, read it, and enjoy it too.  However, that said, I do have two criticisms of this  book.  First, I thought that the second half (or last third anyway), kind  of got bogged down and was not as much fun to read as the first part of the  book. Second, with respect to the ending, while some have used the word  &quot;shocking&quot;, I would use other words like &quot;stupid&quot;,  &quot; disappointing&quot; and &quot;frustrating&quot;.  It seemed to have  come out of nowhere and have virtually nothing to do with the rest of the  book. It almost seems to have been written by another person altogether.   One of the unfortunate consequences is that by veering off (for many pages)  into an otherwise tangential plot development, virtually every other story  line and subplot in the story--many of which were excellent--are left  completely unresolved.  Thus the reader is left with no sense of what  became of anyone.  The relationship between Sammy and Nate was interesting,  but no more or less so than about 8 other subpolts in the story, all of  which were ignored.  I wish the ending could have been re-written.   However, I still give the book 4 stars because I still enjoyed the journey  to the crappy ending.	1999-07-01
US	53000124	R1HRM1FPFI26FS	067088300X	221101137	The Girls' Guide to Hunting and Fishing	Books	5	5	7	N	Y	This is Not Bridget Jones' Diary--Part 2	First, let me say that the wildly divergent opinions on this book are fascinating.  Rarely does one see so many 1-star and 5-star reviews for the same book.  I myself thought it was great, although I probably would give  it 4.5 stars, only because I thought that some of the endings were a bit  loose.  What puzzled me however is how many reviewers compared this book to  Bridget Jones' Diary, some (but not many) considering it better, and others  (the vast majority of those comparing) considering it not nearly as good.  To me, other than the very last (title) story, which was admittedly quite  reminiscent of Bridget Jones, the rest of these stories bore almost no  comparison whatsoever.  Whereas Helen Fielding's book (which I liked) was  more of a farcical, slapstick, riotous, go-for-the-laugh-every-second type  of book, I felt that the humor in this book, while certainly abundant, was  more wry and not (unlike BJD) its raison-d'etre.  I thought this book was  deeper, broader, more instrospective and thought-provoking.  In any event,  I would recommend it highly.	1999-06-22
US	53000124	R39CBJT2947WJF	0375404929	785389269	For the Relief of Unbearable Urges: Stories	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Excellent.	Although I have to agree with those reviewers who commented that the endings of many of these stories were somewhat disappointing, and felt incomplete, I nevertheless thought that the collection as a whole was  wonderful and would recommend it to anyone.  Thus, I give it 5 stars  notwithstanding my reservation.	1999-06-03
US	53000124	R1L76VFQG8HMAR	0879519142	202936797	The Peculiar Memories of Thomas Penman	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	Great Book!	I thought that this book was flat-out wonderful and thought that the ending was particularly moving (though sad).  I would recommend it to anyone.  One question: What did the title refer to?	1999-04-23
US	53000124	R2L8IT3GHISY5J	0312198485	493018762	The Country Life	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Recommended	I thought this book was great, but I agree with the person below who found the ending a little weak. I was not sure what the reader was meant to take with him or her from the ending.  That Stella has decided to stay after all  (and that the Madden's will have her)?  That she is starting something  romantic with Martin?  That she has discovered herslf as a person even  though she is about to end her little experiment in the country?  That she  is going back to Edward?  Is the ending intentionally ambiguous?  Also, I  found that the author sometimes fell into the peculiarly British habit of  cramming 20 separate thoughts into some sentences, a trick achieved through  the use of multiple different sentence fragments, each separated by commas,  so that the sentence runs on and on, sort of like I have done in this  sentence!  But all in all, it really was a good book.	1999-03-31
US	53000124	R35BKXHR6XYE5Y	0517708620	365120378	Starting Out in the Evening	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Wonderful	I thought this little novel was just great.  Superlative in every respect.  I cannot remember a book about which I had such high regard since Richard Ford's Independence Day from 1995.	1999-03-03
US	53000124	R3224366H53OT5	0316332224	917118182	Careless Love: The Unmaking of Elvis Presley	Books	5	5	7	N	Y	Excellent, but with 2 criticisms	The book was great, as was Volume 1.  I only had two regrets about it.  First, I wish that there had been a bit more of a &quot;retrospective&quot; view of Elvis' life at the end, including the author's own views as to what  may be learned from Elvis' life. Instead, the book ends somewhat more  abruptly than I had hoped, with his death occurring virtually on the last  pages.   Second, while the book has been (accurately) complimented for  being scrupulously fair and non-judgmental, I would have like to see it be  a bit MORE judgmental, so as to learn the author's views as to those who  were really the &quot;good guys&quot; in his life (i.e. those who saw what  was happening and tried to stop it) vs. the &quot;bad guys&quot; (i.e.  those who were either oblivious or those did not care.). While I have some  of my own views, I would be interested in the author's.  As it was, it was  like reading an excellent newspaper with no editorial page and no op-ed  page!	1999-02-11
US	53000124	R17RQKNRLGIHZS	0374223270	659653769	The Notebooks of Don Rigoberto	Books	2	1	6	N	Y	What happened prior to Chapter 1?	I was underwhelmed by this book.  The most frustrating part was that I was  unaware of exactly what transpired between Fonchito and his stepmother  before the book even started.  The book never tells you.  I now know, of  course, that these events are covered in the author's earlier work &quot;In  Praise of the Stepmother&quot;, but I did not read that one and didn't even  know about it until after I finished this one.  <br />The author's failure to  at least summarize what went on previously means one of things: Either (1)  he felt that the details were not particularly relevant, so long as the  reader had a general idea that &quot;something&quot; happened between  Fonchito and Dona Lucrecia or (2) he simply assumed that everyone who read  this book must have read the prior work.  <br />If the first choice is true, I  would strongly disagree that the details are not important.  Who initiated  things?  When did it occur?  How did the other react?  What was Don  Rigoberto's reaction?  I feel these things are crucial to an understanding  and appreciation of this newest work.<br />If the second choice is true, the  author is merely being presumptuous, and wrongly so.  Indeed, even the NYT  book reviewer was unaware of the prior book!  While Vargas may be a  talented author, I don't think that his name is such a household word that  he should just assume that all his readers have read every work.	1998-08-23
US	53000124	R3T8TFVVVIL7A6	0374159963	184001758	Gain	Books	2	1	5	N	Y	Someone must be in the minority...may as well be me.	I had not read any of this author's earlier works, so I did not have a  basis of comparison, but I must say I was underwhelmed by this effort, and  was frankly very surprised at the effusive praise it received.  <br />        First, I think it is difficult to write fiction about an inanimate entity  such as a corporation. It makes it hard to grip the reader because while  people come and go through the corporation, they are secondary to the main  star which is the company itself.  In the first part of the book, it was  different, because then the 3 sons more or less equalled the corporation so  the book was about people at that point.  But even by the time of Peter and  Douglas Clare, Jr., and certainly beyond that, the people passing through  Clare became less and less important (and the book became less  interesting).  Of course, to a large extent, the book is a kind of generic  account of any &quot;mega-co-USA&quot; got that way from humble 19th  century origins, and the ups and downs they all have to endure.  But for  that, why not just look at a real company?<br />     Second, because of the  complete lack of any twists or turns in the plot, its predicability left me  bored. The author more or less tells you where he's going within the few  few pages of the book and then inexorably moves there without any deviation  whatsoever.<br />        Third, while I appreciate the author's efforts  to  add detail (and thus presumably authenticity) regarding (1) the soap and  candle-making process and (2) the nature of cancer from a purely medical  perspective, I found that he went into SUCH exhaustive detail that my eyes  would just glaze over when he became Richard Powers, MD, or Richard Powers,  Ph.D. in Chemistry.<br />          Finally, if the book was intended to be  some sort of indictment of corporate conglomerates in the 20th century, I  was unconvinced.  Is the author saying that the DuPont's of the world are  inherently bad or should not exist?  That Clare should never have  progressed beyond the stage when the 3 sons ran it?  That Clare should have  ceased all technological progress?  What is his point?  (Or, if he has a  point, what is his solution?)	1998-08-17
US	53000124	R3V8JFWJ6GDV0P	0465068359	803730078	The Rape Of Nanking: The Forgotten Holocaust Of World War II	Books	5	5	8	N	Y	Are we reviewing Kirkus or this book?	When reading the customer comments to this book, I was surprised at how many reviewers opined on the Kirkus Review, either agreeing with some or all of it or (more frequently) vehemently disagreeing with it.  I found that the book could have been a little fuller in its treatment and that 206 pages (excluding introduction) did seem a bit brief for a book dealing with such an important and incredibly undercovered event in history.  This is particularly so given that the coverage of the actual 6-8 week period of terrorism accounts for only 100 pages of the book.  One other criticism was chapter organization.  First comes Chapter 2, entitled &quot;6 weeks of terror&quot;, which describes the Rape of Nanking.  Then Chapter 3 covers an historically earlier event, namely &quot;the fall of Nanking&quot;.  Then we return in Chapter 4 to more about the RON, except now the chapter is called &quot;6 weeks of horror&quot; which seemed simply a continuation of Chapter 2.  Having said all of this, I gave the book a 9 because I agreed with everything the author had to say in her introduction and her epilogue regarding the lack of historical attention paid to this important and incredibly gruesome event, and I think she told the story well, albeit briefly.  Thus, I would recommend it to anyone.	1998-03-23
US	53000124	RY3ADVHH6NILF	0395809770	5636820	Bob the Gambler	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	Very enjoyable, but...	I thought this book was very well written and entertaining.  I do have two comments however.  First, I thought it was at its best when the Ray and/or Jewel were actually at the casino, and less interesting when the plot veered away from that (although the John Larroquette scene certainly was funny). Also, I was somewhat confused as to what the author intended the reader to conclude as to the fate of the main protagonists.  Was it:  (a) they had overcome their gambling addiction and were going to live happily ever after? (b) they never overcame their addiction but were going to live happily ever after anyway? or (c) they couldn't overcome their addiction and were doomed to a life of misery and depression?  Certain parts of the ending seem to point to each of these conclusions.  Any thoughts?	1997-11-01
US	53000124	R1MH6U1I59FGC	0385488300	100574646	Double Fault	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Well-written but depressing	The book is undoubtely well-crafted an written by a real &quot;pro&quot;.  The dialogue in particular was superb--almost too clever.  However, while the NYT talks about what a &quot;less ambitious&quot; author might have done with the ending, I must be in the category of the &quot;less ambitious reader&quot; because the uplifting ending is exactly what I was hoping for.  There was so much sadness and heartache in the book, that I was hoping for some  relief from the unrelenting tension by book's end.  Granted, perhaps the author is to be credited for her unstinting devotion to realism as opposed to a trite Hollywood ending, but it sure made for depressing reading.	1997-09-27
US	53000124	R4MDOHXV5SO9R	0679442790	153296191	The Reader	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Excellent	I thought this book was wonderful.. A little heavy on the philosophizing at times, and someimes I wondered about the faithfulness of the translation, but I would recommend it to anyone.  The twists and turns in the plot truly took me by surprise, and it was a good thing that I hadn't read either the dust jacket or the reviews that give away the first half of the book	1997-09-22
US	53000124	R2KHWIQ4YGE08E	039304016X	637283524	The Perfect Storm: A True Story of Men Against the Sea	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Enjoyable, but ....	I agree with most of the reviewers who praised this book, but I did find that it became much less interesting after the author was done with the Andrea Gail saga. Thereafter, it became simply a bunch of disparate short stories connected only by the fact of the storm itself.  However that mere similarity was not enough to engage me as much as the Andrea Gail part of the story. Also, while I would certainly recommend the book, I agree with the reviewer below who commented that it is absolutely NOT as good a read as Into Thin Air	1997-09-09
US	53000124	R385WID0ERYBPH	067942850X	674569455	Into the Wild	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Absolutely compelling reading	I happen to think that Krakauer has a wonderful writing style evidenced in this and in Into Thin Air.  I am only surprised at 2 comments which showed up in some of the negative reviews.  First is that, at a modest 207 pages, the book could have been shorter!  I thought it was by no means too short and everything that was in the book added to the whole.  Second, I sensed that some people felt that experiences like Chris' are so commonplace that they're hardly worth mentioning.  If so, I haven't read a whole lot of accounts like this one. I would unreservedly recommend this book to anyone	1997-09-09
US	53000124	R3SC5CKY52NWSU	0394570766	370460099	Ashes to Ashes: America's Hundred-Year Cigarette War, the Public Health, and the Unabashed Triumph of Philip Morris	Books	4	11	12	N	Y	Fascinating but where was the editing?	There is no question but that the book was exhaustively researched and tells you everything you might want to know about the tobacco industry over the past 100 years.  Often it was compelling reading as well.  But it seems to me it could have been a good deal shorter and still have gotten the main points across--say under 450 pages rather than 750 pages.  It seems that every fact Kluger ever uncovered went into this book.  As a general matter, I also found the book much more interesting when it was talking about the &quot;bad guys&quot; (i.e. the tobacco industry and particularly their advertisers), rather than the efforts of the various anti-tobacco groups to show the harmful effects of smoking.  I found those sections comparatively tedious.  No question that the book is quite an accomplishment though and I would certainly recommend it although I didn't find it necessary to digest every word	1997-09-08
US	53000124	R1WL1F40Y2OHJK	0871136791	11590154	Cold Mountain	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	Underwhelmed	I know I'm in a tiny minority when considering the tsunami of effusive reviews for this book, but I must sheepishly admit that I agree with the reader from Virginia.  Maybe I don't recognize a masterpiece when I see it, but I just found the book slow going	1997-08-27
US	53000124	RUSUYUINQMGT2	0446520802	430421115	The Notebook	Books	1	54	67	N	N	Unbelievably trite and mawkish	My God!  Where did all those 10's come from? Is the first non-Harlequin romance these people have ever read?  It makes &quot;Bridges&quot; look like &quot;gritty realism&quot; which I didn't think possible.  Let's see if I have these one-dimensional characters straight.  He is a poetry-reading, guitar-playing guy with no flaws whatsoever and a &quot;flat stomach&quot;.  When sexually excited, he feels &quot;his loins begin to stir&quot;.  She on the other hand, is totally different.  She is a beautiful world-class artist who also has no flaws whatsoever.  However, whereas he has a &quot;flat stomach&quot;, she has a &quot;stomach flat&quot;.  Can you believe this?  This is typical of the writing:  &quot;His shirt was unbuttoned at the top, and she could see his chest muscles flex with every stroke.  His sleeves were rolled up, too, and she could see the muscles in his arms bulging.&quot;  Please! For this, a 10?  I agree with the reviewer below who said that those who were so swept away by this thing must have lots of problems with their own love lives	1997-08-27
US	53000124	RZ4T3EDF0JL0F	0399142673	771227214	The Wishbones	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A delightful book	It may be trite to say so, but I was wishing this book wouldn't end right from the first page, a reaction I seldom have.  The book had a wonderful tempo and feel and was consistently engaging.  I couldn't recommend it more highly	1997-08-13
US	53000124	R2DLOWCMKF6YRA	0892965878	198340912	The Ax	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent and surprisingly funny	When I read a book review of a novel, I look  for two essential ingredients: First, does the  review say what the reviewer thought of the book?  This may be seem fairly basic and obvious, but I'm  always amazed at how many reviewers are so   concerned about showing off their own erudition  and familiarity with the subject matter that they  never get around to giving the book a &quot;grade&quot; or  an equivalent.) Second, I want a general sense of  what the book is about.  No MORE than than a   general sense.  I don't mind knowing what happens  in the first few pages but I don't want to hear  about the first 3/4 of the book, much less the  whole thing.  Many reviewers seem to think that as long as they  haven't given away the very last page, then they  haven't taken away the enjoyment of the book.  Admittedly, the job of explaining enough so that  the reader knows what the book is about, but not  going too far, can be a tricky line to draw.         Why do I mention all this here? Because a number  of reviews of this book (like the long-winded and  bone-headed review by Rick.Lynch) spoil the  book by informing the reader how many people the  protagonist successfully kills along the way.    Thus I couldn't get that out of my mind the whole  way. I don't mind knowing that he tries to kill  people or even how many are on his &quot;hit list&quot;--but  I DON'T want to know whether he succeeds or not.  Having said that, I thought the book was great  and I am surprised at how many of the reviewers  seemed to ignore what I thought was a  wonderful comic element in the book (albeit  somewhat macabre.  While having an appreciation for  Westlake's deeper messages of the societal effects  of downsizing, I found myself laughing aloud at least a dozen times  during this book, which I don't do often.	1997-08-07
