US	53002916	RO5QLOVZ0NELJ	1590594320	215465077	A Complete Guide to PivotTables: A Visual Approach	Books	2	46	47	N	N	Poorly written (and overpriced) explanation of pivot tables	I bought this book after first beginning to use pivot tables and appreciating how easily they could be used to create and populate tables to present descriptive statistics.  I had hoped that this book would show good examples of how to use pivot tables and further understand their features.  This book really added very little to the basic understanding that I developed by simply experimenting with Excel and the various commands associated with pivot tables.  It really has a low information-to-page ratio.  Two much better  resources on the topic are the website [...] (really fine FREE online tutorials) or the book Excel Data Analysis: Your Visual Blueprint for Creating and Analyzing Data, Charts and PivotTables that provides quite a bit of information on pivot tables, along with a number of other topics in a much-better written book than this one.	2005-03-01
US	53002916	R2ISZC70P4X5LU	1574670972	535123940	Decoding Wagner: An Invitation to His World of Music Drama (includes 2 CDs)	Books	5	65	66	N	Y	Very solid overview of Wagner's operas - 2 Good Music CDs	I found this to  be an excellent overview of Wagner and his operas in  a book of only 200 pages or so.  This book is for someone who is fairly familiar with the plots of Wagner's operas -- no plot summaries are presented -- and gives  a good sense of how Wagner developed as both a composer and dramatist.  The book is written mostly around the ten major operas wrote -- a chapter for each with an extra chapter to introduce the Ring. Although the book is relatively  short, the reader learns a lot about Wagner's sources,  his use of these sources, and key features of the individual operas.  A portion of the discussion of the operas is tied to the CDs - one for the Ring and the other for the non-Ring operas.  The CDs are primarily \\"greatest hits\\" - from the operas, with text making reference to different points on the CD in terms of timing.<br /><br />This book is probably not the first book you read on Wagner  -- I would recommend \\"Wagner Without Fear\\" by William Berger as an introduction to Wagner and his work.  For other readers, this book really provides quite a bit of diverse information in a small space.  The book is well-written and meets the needs of many readers in that it written around individual operas.  A reader can go right to the opera of interest, but I think may will also want to read through the entire book to better understand the context of individual operas and their place  in Wagner's development.<br /><br />The book has a good bibliography (though it would have been nice to have some annotation).<br /><br />The book is  a good  value as is, but with the 2 CDs (primarily BMG recordings), it becomes an excellent value.  Any reader interested in Wagner should consider owning this book.  5 stars.	2005-01-23
US	53002916	R2SYIZ8OC41PRC	1564146650	470283846	Yoga for Men: Postures for Healthy, Stress-Free Living	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Good reference book - a bit light on yoga practice however	This is an unusual book, in that about half of it is a reference book that describes various types of yoga in terms of their history and style.  One reviewer calls this \\"mumbo jumbo\\" but it is well written and possibly of interest if you want a better understanding of how yoga has developed and what the various forms of yoga are.  The book also includes annotated references to most of its chapters, so it is possible to follow up and learn more about topics of interest  -- many website addresses are included.<br /><br />  The other half (or so) of the book is, however, a very good guide to the \\"how to\\" of yoga, with pictures and very good text describing various yoga postures.  There are all of the elements of a full yoga practice, along with sections on special topics such as yoga for those with back trouble, yoga for athletes, and yoga for men of different ages.<br /><br />This is a good book, but a bit different from you standard \\"how to do yoga\\" book that has a few pages up front describing history and styles of yoga.  This may not be the first or only book you read about yoga, but it is a very good book if you want to learn more about yoga or are specifically care about topics of interest to men.	2004-10-24
US	53002916	R2F1SD0UN76YNY	0911910352	684662000	The Merck Manual of Medical Information, Second Edition: The World's Most Widely Used Medical Reference - Now In Everyday Language	Books	5	56	57	N	Y	Very Comprehensive Health Guide for Wide Audience	This is an excellent guide to health and wellness written for lay people and quite comprehensive in its coverage. This second edition (first comes from 1997) adds about adds 35 chapters and 400 pages to the first edition, with updates throughout the book (e.g., on various drug therapies).  It is very well-organized, primarily as 300 plus chpaters written around body systems (e.g.. digestive disorders) or topical areas (children's health, preventative medicine). The book has many short sub-sections within chapters (typically 5  to 10 pages) that cover specific topics (skin cancer, glaucoma, family planning) that can readily be found in the table of contents.  The book is extremely well written with a very detailed index that makes it easy to find information on specific topic.  One nice feature of this book is that it is printed to be about the size of a college dictionary (though with larger print than most dictionaries). It also includes an excellent appendix listing other resources for information by topic, with organizations listed out with their mail addresses and web sites.	2003-06-03
US	53002916	R2X1QRWO7A7BUD	0525946756	557461421	Skipping Towards Gomorrah: The Seven Deadly Sins and the Pursuit of Happiness in America	Books	5	10	16	N	Y	POW! Take that virtuecrats! Smart, funny, and provocative	Dan Savage has written a very funny yet thought provoking book about America and American morality. Much of the book is a travelogue, where Dan goes out and meets people pursuing happiness (which some would call sin). The point is that these people are doing what they want to and in a way that doesn't involve anyone who doesn't want to participate. The virtuecrats of the world may take offense at all of this, but our man Dan is quick to point out (often using their own words) is the hypocrisy that often goes into the criticism of others' morals and behaviors.<br />As readers of Dan Savage's sex column know, he can be a very, very funny writer and there are definitely parts of the book (both the situations and choices of word) that will leave you howling. At the same time, it covers some various serious topics (which I guess a sex columnist does too) central to how we lead our individual lives and how our society (and in particular our government) affects our ability to lead our lives.<br />This is a book very well worth reading, in that it will not only make you laugh, but will also make you think a lot about issues of personal liberty, tolerance, and what we should expect of our government in establishing and and enforcing laws. The book is actually quite well researched, not only in terms of what today's virtuecrats (e.g., Bill Bennett, Jerry Falwell, Dr. Laura) have to say, but what Founding Fathers may have had in mind in defining personal liberty. Liberty doesn't mean you can do anything you want (like blow up a building) but that you can do what you want in your own life in a way that does not harm others.<br />In reading this book (along with \\"The Kid,\\" his very touching book on adopting a child), I had the sense that Dan Savage is a very nice guy who would be a great neighbor, friend, or work colleague. You may not agree with some of his opinions or some ways in which he leads his own personal life, but the point of this book is who cares about other people's personal lives. The book presents a very compelling case that it is best to live and let live and to realize that we are a great an diverse country (not slouching toward Gomorrah) without pushing any one view of morality on others.<br />A great book!e's personal lives. The book presents a very compelling case that it is best to live and let live and to realize that we are a great an diverse country (not slouching toward Gomorrah) without pushing any one view of morality on others. <br />A great book!	2002-10-31
US	53002916	R2NP1WIUIOBFLW	0671014080	505845984	A Flat Stomach ASAP	Books	4	28	30	N	Y	Very Good Guide for Effective Exercise with Gimmicky Title	I liked this book despite the \\"ASAP\\" part of its title (ASAP being an acronym for some principles the author presents). Darden presents a program that lasts for 6 weeks but can then be adapted over the long term to improve overall muscular strength and weight of all muscles, not just abs. The key to the exercise component is to do a small number of exercises (some with weights, some without) at a very slow and controlled pace until individual muscles are fatigued. I have had good luck with this approach in strength training and think it works well to develop muscle without causing you injury.<br />As a book on using the \\"super slow\\" strength-training approach to exercise, it is quite clearly written with good instructions. I found the diet parts less interesting, in that there really isn't anything new there, though recommendations for diet are clear. It basically says you need to cut calories by eating certain types of food to lose weight, and can do so most efficiently in combination with exercise.<br />This is a very good exercise book that is effective, easy to understand,and that comes at a good price. I would recommend it highly.	2002-08-30
US	53002916	R1TT6ERNKHAPWR	0060196378	838548029	The Burn Rate Diet: The New Mind /Body Treatment for Permanent Weight Control	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Good Book on Priciples of Eating that Will Help With Weight	This book brings an interesting approach to eating and weight control based on two points.  The first is that everybody has a built-in metabolic rate (or burn rate) that determines how a given level of calorie intake affects their weight. The second point is that dfferent foods \\"burn\\" at different rates, that is their intake will provide a sense of satisfaction and fullness for only so long (carbohydrates burn quickly and fats burn slowly).  The trick to losing weight (assuming that is what most of us want to do) is to mix foods in our diet and spread our eating over the day so that we feel full and acknowledge what level of calories we need to take in (given our internal burn rate along with our level of exercise)to attain a certain weight level.<br />This diet (really a way of eating) is a very individualized approach that begins with a burn rate test diet in which you a eat specified for 2 weeks and see how that affects your weight.  This lets you see if you have a high or low burn rate.  From here, you eat pretty much without a lot of strict rules but take account of how the foods you eat are burned by your body and affect your desire to eat.  The right mix of foods and the timing of your eating (given the burn rate of the foods) will help you feel full while allowing you to lose weight.  As you lose weight, you should then be able to match your eating to your burn rate (which changes with your weight) to get a balance between the calories you take in through eating and those you expend through your basic metabolism of sustaining your body and the calories you spend on your activities, including exercise.<br />To me, the book seemed to present a credible theory of why people can eat very differently and still have the same weight (or eat the same and have different weights).  The book has an good discussion of other diets (such as Atkins and the Zone diets) that links them to the framework of this book.  My understanding is that this method of eating is fairly close to the zone diet, i.e., you eat foods over the course of the day with sense of how they affect your blood sugar and feeling of fullness.lose to the zone diet, i.e., you eat foods over the course of the day with sense of how they affect your blood sugar and feeling of fullness.<br />	2002-04-26
US	53002916	RSXRX64HQ0X0D	076791032X	141760283	The Great Movies	Books	5	34	39	N	Y	Nice Intro to 100 Great Movies -- Something New for All	Any sort of list of \\"great\\" movies (or anything else for that matter) is surely going to raise questions of what is included or what is excluded. This is an excellent book, and my guess is that most readers who like movies (and not just what has played in the past five years or so) are going to find many of their favorites here, along with some movies that they have never seen or perhaps even heard of. Ebert is an excellent writer, and with a 3-4 page discussion for each movie, he concisely sketches the plot of each film and really tries to identify what makes the movie worth watching -- the script, the performances, the look of the film, etc. His chapters (really short essays about individual films) are much more than \\"book reports\\" and really bring out what there is to love about these films. For me, reading this book was like getting reaquainted with some old friends and getting to know some new ones. This is a nice book that can be happily dipped into many times -- the only complaint about the book is that it is too short, both in terms of the length of writeups and the number of films it covers. I suspect Ebert could write another book to describe what is worthwhile about 100 other films (great of near great)-- Let's hope he does!	2002-03-19
US	53002916	R1N5PURLOA2HR0	0395595118	669379389	The Lord of the Rings	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Nice Edition of LOTR --  Great Illustrations	There are plenty of reviews on this site that can tell you what a great book the Lord of the Rings is -- it really is very enjoyable tale and worth multiple reads, despite its length.  Although you can certainly read the story in other, cheaper editions, this one is worth having for several reasons:<br />  1) The novel is in one volume as Tolkien intended, rather than three -- makes it easier to jump around among favorite scenes.<br />  2) The volume is well constructed, with good quality paper and binding; it should hold up well for multiple reads.<br />  3)  Most importantly, the 50 illustrations by Alan Lee nicely capture Tolkien's vision in the Ring, including the landscapes of Middle Earth, its creatures, and its structures.  Whereas some illustrators have made the LOTR (and more so the Hobbit) look like cartoons, Alan Lee's illustrations have a solid reality to them.  It is interesting to note that Lee was one of the artists whose work was incorporated into the recent Peter Jackson film(s) -- I thought that the \\"Fellowship\\" movie was visually stunning, and some of the imagery can be traced back to these illustrations created in the early 1990s for the 100th anniversery of Tolkien's birth.<br />  ... Bottom line is that this is a great edition to have if you want a nicely bound, creatively illustrated copy of LOTR.	2002-02-07
US	53002916	R2S7FJ4XURVM69	0553456539	763758332	The Lord of the Rings (BBC Dramatization)	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	Captures most of LOTR -- Good Radio Production	This is a BBC radio production that goes back about 20 years and is now presented on 13 CDs. It is a very good production of LOTR, and reminded me of what a good radio production is -- good actors, combined with dialog, sound effects, and accompanying music that let you follow the story and visualize it in your mind. Although it is 13 hours long, it mostly goes by quickly. The books are of course very long and detailed, and the BBC adaptation is quite compact and faithful to the book -- very little of the action is left out. One nice feature of the recording is the use of a narrator who both moves the action along and also provides many of Tolkein's fantastic word pictures of the world of LOTR.<br />The acting is very good in the series -- I particularly liked Ian Holm as Frodo and Robert Stephens as Aragon. The sounds effects are mostly very good -- lots of hoofbeats for the black riders, swords clanging, water running, etc. Most of the time, it is very clear who is speaking, though occasionally voices get lost in the melee. There are some songs and poems included in the set -- some people may find these tiresome, in that they do sometimes slow down the action.<br />Each CD is about an hour long, and the set is nicely packed as 3-4 CDs into folders that fit into a book. Each folder provides background on Tolkein and the LOTR and includes a short summary of the plot for the each disk within the folder. The disks all have 5 or 6 bands, so it is possible to pick up the story again if you take the disk out of your CD player (e.g., your teenagers want to listen to something else).<br />This is a set worth having, particularly at the price ... is selling it at (think of it on a per-disk basis). It tells the story in a very enjoyable way and will (hopefully) send you either back to the books or to the books if you haven't read them. A definite buy.	2002-01-28
US	53002916	R1N0CP5S85Z4EE	0684871580	110011583	Germs : Biological Weapons and America's Secret War	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Good Book to Understand History and Future of Germ Warfare	This book is a very good account of the history and possible future of germ warfare, the act of taking bacteria and viruses and turning them into weapons.  The book makes the point that whereas the impact of most weapons - including chemical weapons -- are felt only by the people directly &quot;hit&quot; by the weapon, many types of germ weapon involve agents that can spread silently through a population as people infect one another. Among the many alarming things, the diseases that can be spread through germ warfare often cannot be treated, particulary if they are engineered to combine diseases or other resist antibiotics or other drug treatments.<br />The book is very well written and researched, covering in detail the development of germ warfare in the US, the former Soviet Union, and Iraq.  Perhaps most alarmingly, it seems that the barriers to producing germ agents are becoming lower over time --that germ warfare could be the &quot;poor man's hydrogen bomb&quot;  -- a realtively cheap and invisible weapon of mass destruction that terrorists could readily use.<br />The book covers a lot of ground in about 320 pages of text.  It is of course all the more timely since the terrorist attacks on Septmeber 11th and recent distribution of anthrax in the mail. The book opens up some of the most recent US policy involved in protecting against germ weapons, including efforts to beef up the public health system.  This is a book that deserves a careful read.  Although it is not meant to alarm (and is in no way sensational), the book makes provides the background to realize how dangerous the threat of biological attack really is.	2001-10-27
US	53002916	R1MORBUM4H94LJ	1574670654	578796316	The Operagoer's Guide: One Hundred Stories and Commentaries (Amadeus)	Books	5	21	21	N	Y	Excellent Set of Operatic Nutshells	Father Lee has succeeded in distilling the plots of 100 standard operas in a small book that is a little more than 200 pages. The best parts of the book are not the plot summaries (however well written), but the commentaries that are included after each opera's plot summary.<br />Father Lee has written extensively on opera (and also spoken about opera on Met broadcasts), always bringing tremendous insight to individual works.  The marvelous thing here is that the commentaries in this book (most of which are only 2 or 3 paragraphs) really provide the information needed to enjoy an individual opera and to understand its place in the repertoire.<br />This is a great book to have whatever your knowledge and experience with opera.  It will likely leave you wanting to learn more about specific operas (and perhaps send you off to listen to some recordings -- Lee make a recommendation for each opera).<br />If there is any disappointment at all with this book, it is that it is so short.  Fortunately Father Lee is a prolific writer whose several books about opera cover perhaps 50 to 60 works in detail.  He is a wonderfully wise guide to the riches of opera --a scholar whose writing is clear, engaging, and supremely informative.  This book is a great starting point for an individual opera, but I would really recommend reading his other books on opera to build upon this little book.	2001-10-24
US	53002916	RNX11B08IAHDU	0393020231	951530402	The Colossal Book of Mathematics: Classic Puzzles, Paradoxes, and Problems	Books	5	71	74	N	Y	True Treasure: Stunning Collection of Popular Math Articles	This is an excellent collection of 50 of Martin Gardner's Scientific American &quot;Mathematical Games&quot; columns that he wrote over a number of years.  Gardner wrote his column for 25 years and always managed to find an idea involving mathematics -- sometimes obscure, sometimes not -- and make it very understandable and very interesting through very clear (and often witty) writing combined with excellent illustrations (reproduced here)by Scientific American.  Although these articles have been previously reproduced in the 15 collections, this collection is valuable in that Gardner (now in his mid-eighties and still writing away) has added addenda to his earlier articles that nicely update them.<br />Although some people might think that &quot;recreational mathematics&quot; is a contradiction of terms, Gardner's insight and excellent writing style really do make mathematics enjoyable.  At one level, the book can be thought of as a collection of puzzles, in that Gardner often uses a puzzle or otherwise poses a question to ask how a problem can be solved.  The book goes way beyond a  collection of puzzles, in that Gardner really provides an overview of mathematics concepts involved and goes beyond the simple solution of the puzzle to give the reader a sense of particular concepts in mathematics (e.g., topology).  His approach really makes mathematics quite interesting.<br />I am sure that Gardner's original column got many people (including myself) interested in mathematics, and I hope that this collection will help a new group of readers to develop and maintain curiosity regarding mathematics and its applications.  It is, for example, something that teachers might want to refer their students to.  If you haven't read other books by Gardner, this is a very good place to start -- I would also recommend his essay collection &quot;The Night is Large&quot; that shows his amazing range of interests (of which mathematics is one part).	2001-08-15
US	53002916	RVT4X6U7OWF67	037570518X	861390688	Verdi With a Vengeance: An Energetic Guide to the Life and Complete Works of the King of Opera	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A good but not great book on Verdi	This book is similar in format to the author's \\"Wagner Without Fear\\". Like the Wagner book, it provides a lot of information in terms of biography, plot summary, musical overview, and selected recordings. Although a very good book, it is not quite up to the Wagner book in that it discusses many more operas (27 including the Requiem) than the Wagner book did (10) in roughly the same space.  The plot summaries are still very good, though often there is not quite the same level of detail and (especially) commentary there was in the Wagner book.  As a result, the book is more a (very good) set of plot summaries than its predecessor.  In fairness to the author, this may be appropriate in that Verdi is a generally more accessible composer who often needs less in the way of commentary to be a appreciated. It definitely is a good resource, though a reader interested in Verdi may find himself or herself going outside of the book more than they would if they were reading the Wagner book.	2001-01-23
US	53002916	R1QK5KEIPJTWNJ	0375700544	467487408	Wagner Without Fear:  Learning to Love--and Even Enjoy--Opera's Most Demanding Genius	Books	4	25	25	N	N	Very Good Book Even if You Know Wagner Well	This book should serve as an excellent and very readable guide for most readers who want information about Wagner's life, his operas, the staging of the operas, various recordings of the operas, etc.  If it is not a deep book that goes into lots of detail about these topics (nor can it be, given its length) but certainly it provides satisfactory coverage. It is particularly useful in its plot summaries, along with a general discussion of the music of the operas. Although it is written in a very chatty and informal manner, it really covers a lot of ground and gives a reader good leads on how to follow up with additional reading and Cd listening. I don't think it will by itself convert anyone who hates Wagner, but it should help a lot of other people enjoy his operas more. It is a book that is both fun to read but one with a lot of substance too!	2001-01-22
US	53002916	R3DO62UDQQ64BW	0743201140	877422266	Now, Discover Your Strengths	Books	4	194	206	N	Y	Pretty Good Psych -- Some Insights on People Management	This book presents an interesting description of personality that describes 34 different types of strengths that a person may have.  Based on measurement of these strengths (discussed below), it is possible to identify dominant strengths that help to determine personality.  The focus of the book is on describing these strengths and then arguing that it is best for individuals and managers can best develop and build upon individuals' strengths.  The book makes the interesting point that it is most effective trying to build on these strengths rather trying to identify and improve upon weaknesses.<br />A key to this book is an internet-based test that allows an individual to obtain a measurement of their top five strengths.  To take this test, you log onto a specific website and type in the unique password that is printed in thte inside cover of the book.  (This means you only take the test once -- your friends will need to buy the book to take the test!).  The test is based on work that the Gallup Organization has done and has (according to the book) been been administered to 2 million people in a large number of different type of organizations.<br />Once on the site, you answer 180 questions in which you are asked to make a two-way choice as to what word better describes you, which action you would rather take, and so forth.  It takes about 20-30 minutes in total to get through these, but once you do, a report is generated on screen (along with an with the same information) that lists your top five strengths and provides a description of what they are. Many of the strengths involve how you deal with people, how you process information, and how you see yourself in the world.<br />The book gives short descriptions of each strength and gives short (one-paragraph)write-ups from people who have the particular strength describing themselves. The book is meant to be a management tool, in that it talks about how to manage people with each of the strength in the book and make best use of these strengths.<br />I feel that the book is a better popular psychology book rather than a management book.  Although the descriptions of strength seemed fairly clear, the discussion could have been better when it described how to manage people.  It tended to be a list of &quot;do this&quot; without much discussion of why a manager might want to encourage an employee to do certain things or take on certain types of assignments.  What the book really lacked was a description of the downside that certain strengths might bring (e.g., a person who is deliberative may seem to take a long time to do something).  A better discussion of what the strengths really mean would have been helpful.<br />The book is well-written and taking the test is fun. Learning about one own attributes as measured by the test is helpful, both in personal and business life.  It will make you think about yourself in a constructive and stimulating way. This in itself makes the book worth buying.<br />The book provides some good insight into how to manage individual types of people and help them develop on the job. I found it a bit weak on management from the standpoint of what an organization should do, in that it just seemed too general beyond saying figure out what everybody can do well and encourage them to do it. It may be, however, that some of this material is discussed in the book's (earlier) companion book (&quot;First, Break All the Rules&quot;).best use of these strengths.  <br />I feel that the book is a better popular psychology book rather than a management book.  Although the descriptions of strength seemed fairly clear, the discussion could have been better when it described how to manage people.  It tended to be a list of &quot;do this&quot; without much discussion of why a manager might want to encourage an employee to do certain things or take on certain types of assignments.  What the book really lacked was a description of the downside that certain strengths might bring (e.g., a person who is deliberative may seem to take a long time to do something).  A better discussion of what the strengths really mean would have been helpful.<br />The book is well-written and taking the test is fun. Learning about one own attributes as measured by the test is helpful, both in personal and business life.  It will make you think about yourself in a constructive and stimulating way. This in itself makes the book worth buying. <br />The book provides some good insight into how to manage individual types of people and help them develop on the job. I found it a bit weak on management from the standpoint of what an organization should do, in that it just seemed too general beyond saying figure out what everybody can do well and encourage them to do it. It may be, however, that some of this material is discussed in the book's (earlier) companion book (&quot;First, Break All the Rules&quot;).	2001-01-16
US	53002916	R1V2BWLMJICRY0	1561583774	449483164	Creating the Not So Big House: Insights and Ideas for the New American Home (Susanka)	Books	4	16	17	N	Y	Very practical guide to combining form with function	This book builds nicely upon the author's earlier book which showed how very comfortable, very personal houses could be built that did not have a lot of unused and uncomfortable space.  No McMansions with cathederal ceilings and formal dining rooms that never get used!  This book focuses on how to install specific features in a home, that can make it more useable without having to build an entire new home (though in building/renovating a home, there are a lot of good ideas here).  This is a very pretty book, with lots of illustrations of how houses can be built, renovated, and decorated to make the best use of space while still being very appealing to the eye.  It is more practical than the first book (which really focused on builiding a whole new home) and can help you think about new ways of setting up a place to live.	2001-01-12
US	53002916	R24YOM9QQK0RIF	0452282152	858318999	Girl with a Pearl Earring: A Novel	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Great Historical Romance Makes Vermeer and his Time Live	This is a very readable and convincing story told by a (fictional) maid who works in Vermeer's house and learns some of the secrets of how he sees the world and brings it to his paintings. The book tells us much of life of domestic life in 17th century Holland from the perspective of the the 17-year old Griet who is the subject of this famous work.<br />For me, there were two very interesting things about the book. The first is that this description of domestic life tells us much about the subjects of Vermeer's paintings -- who the people were in Delft. The second is that we learn a great deal about how Vermeer painted (e.g., layered paints to give us a richer mix of colors) and even how objects were set up in his studio.<br />Griet brings a very nice sense of discovey to Vermeer's work as she understands more and more of how he achieves his effects. This helped me understand Vermeer a bit more and understand more of his wonderful art. I found myself reading this book and then going back and forth a book showing Vermeer's paintings (all 35 or so of them).<br />The book was well worth reading just for its value as an art history/art appreciation text. The book is much more than that though, in that it really tells an engrossing story a young and intelligent girl in a very realistic setting. I recommend it very highly!	2001-01-08
US	53002916	R2QU7TKFBKW8PP	0789201429	173530500	Michelangelo: The Vatican Frescoes	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Excellent Reproductions and very good text -- Truly Majestic	This is an absolutely superb book, largely because the reproductions of the frescoes are excellent and really capture the colors that you see when you visit the Chapel. I have found many art books disappointing, because they simply fail to capture the works they present.  I first saw this book in an American bookstore after visiting the Sistine Chapel, and really thrilled to see if after looking at several other books where colors were much duller and the images simply not as sharp.  In addition to its fine colors, the book provides many fine closeups of each individual section.  The text is also very good, describing the subjects of the painting, the history behind the paintings, ansd also the recent restorstion.  This is a must-have book!	2001-01-07
US	53002916	R34K0L4OA6EDVA	0375400818	605785232	Reading Lyrics	Books	5	38	40	N	Y	Great Compendium of Popular Song Lyrics	This book pulls together something more than 1,000 sets of lyrics of the best known American popular songs from 1900 to 1975. It is a wide and well chosen selection that gives lots of coverage to well-known lyricists like Ira Gershwin, Lorenz Hart,Oscar Hammerstein, and Stephen Sondheim.  It also provides lyrics for a lot of other well-known songs by less well-known lyricists. If you like American popular music, you will probably finding yourself lost in this book, looking and finding your particular favorite songs and going off to listening to some great recordings of the songs from which the lyrics are taken.  The book is laid out well with clear print and with a good index.	2000-12-21
US	53002916	R1905LVZTCD1WF	052594527X	858318999	Girl With a Pearl Earring	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Wonderful Historical Romance Make You Love Vermeer More	This is a very readable and convincing story told by a (fictional) maid who works in Vermeer's house and learns some of the secrets of how he sees the world and brings it to his paintings.  The book tells us much of life of domestic life in 17th century Holland from the perspective of the the 17-year old Griet who Vermeer paints in his famous work.<br />For me, there were two very interesting things about the book.  The first is that this description of domestic life tells us much about the subjects of Vermeer's paintings -- who the people were in Delft.  The second is that we learn a great deal about how Vermeer painted (e.g., layered paints to give us a richer mix of colors) and even tells us how objects were set up in his studio.<br />Griet brings a very nice sense of discovey to Vermeer's work as she understands more and more of how he achieves his effects.  This helped me understand Vermeer a bit more and understand more a more of his wonderful art. I found myself reading this book and then going back and forth from this book to a book showing Vermeer's paintings (all 35 or so of them).<br />The book was well worth reading just for its value as an art history/art appreciation text.  The book is much more than that though, in that it really tells an engrossing story a young and intelligent girl in a very realistic setting.  I recommend it very highly!	2000-11-27
US	53002916	R2DZ7VMTMDDWWH	0684826631	526094708	Eyewitness to Power: The Essence of Leadership, Nixon to Clinton	Books	4	57	60	N	N	Tries to Answer the Question of What a Good President Is	I read this book knowing that Gergen had worked (mostly in the communications area) with four presidents -- Nixon, Ford, Reagan, and Clinton.  He has always impressed as a intelligent, fair-minded commentator on the political scene who is not overtly partisan, always a good thing in a commentator.  This book helped maintained the tradition, in that it gavce what I though were very fair portraits of the presidents Gerger worked with -- sometime admiring, sometimes not.<br />The book has a number of strengths.  Part of is political history, part biography.  You a get sense from reading the books of what the times were in which each president served and what the public expected and got from them.  He is quite frank in discussing what the strengths and weaknesses of the presidents were (with some side reflections on Carter and Bush) and tries to sort out why some presidents are successful and others not. I found most of his appraisals (one at a time and then in summary) both well-articualted and generally convincing.<br />I know one reviewer here says Gergen namedrops -- I don't think he does.  He is mostly telling an &quot;I was there&quot; story and then giving his sense of what it all meant.  He is in no way aggrandizing or trying to clain an unreasoable role for himself.<br />For me, the best part of the books was discussion of what makes a president effective (admittedly something that changes with time).  It seems to a mix of character, ability to connect with people, and in terms of leadership, the ability to focus on a few issues (esepcially early in a term) and to build consensus in the country.  These are good lessons (told well) that I hope our next president understands.<br />My one hope on this book is that Gergen revisits it or at least fills us in some forum us on how the new president is doing. The book is a nice mix of history and an interpretation of presidential leadership.	2000-10-27
US	53002916	R2J1APGJ6J18UM	1890895032	121868157	The Handybook for Genealogists : United States of America (9th Edition)	Books	5	78	78	N	N	Superb Reference Book for Finding Information Sources	This is an absolutely wonderful sourcebook for working with various  governent records (Federal, state, and county) for geneology.  It tells you  very precisely what type of records are available over what time for  individual jusrisdictions.  It is really quite amazing, for example, to  find out the specific years that land title information is available for a  specific county. The book is a treasure trove, in that it gives you all of  the contact information you need to get in touch with various information  sources.<br />Just an amazing book! This is a great book to have.	2000-08-14
US	53002916	R3GWZPVY30V6JZ	1569246602	81689782	The Glucose Revolution: The Authoritative Guide to the Glycemic Index--the Groundbreaking Medical Discovery	Books	5	43	45	N	N	Easy to Understand Guide to a Healthier Diet	I found this to be an excellent, well-written book that explains the very sensible notion of the glycmic index (GI) -- a measure how much sugar a given food adds to your blood in a gievn time. By knowing the GIs of the  foods you eat, you can gain better control over your desire for food and  have better control over your appetite and energy level.  The concept is  very well explained in the book and there is lots of information in the  book (including recipes) of how to specific foods that will have a low (and  healthy) GI index.<br />A good thing about this book is that it is easy to  understand and does not take a lot of effort to implement.  It is easy to  identify what types of food are better than others (e.g., most vegeatbles  rather than bread) and the only effort is to include more of these foods in  your diet.  If weight loss (and maintenance) is your goal, then lower fat  foods should be included in your diet.  A good thing aboue this approach is  that you don't need to give up &quot;bad&quot; foods, just combine them in  moderation with other foods to average things out.<br />In summary, the book  is a very good reference for understanding the concept of GI and making  permanant changes in diet.  A definite buy!	2000-07-17
US	53002916	RHMHWDAYTVGG4	044122332X	396389651	Expecting Someone Taller	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	Very Funny Update to Wagner's Ring Cycle	Ever wonder happened to the ring of the Nibelung after Gotterdammerung? Check this book out for a very funny update of the Ring to see how the hapless Malcolm inherits the all-powerful ring and becomes reluctant ruler  of the world in modern-day England.  He must confront contemporary  incarnations of Alberich, Wotan, and some very seductive Rhinemaidens.  The  book is a good short (228 pages)fantasy novel that is lots of fun even if  you don't know the Ring (and even funnier if you know the Ring well). It is  great fun!	2000-06-25
US	53002916	R2KLYA7C9B8RKM	0375403663	42442339	Holy Clues : The Gospel According to Sherlock Holmes	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Wonderful Insights on Holmes, Doyle, and Mystery Literature	This little book is one of the most insightful books I have ever read.  It makes a very convincing argument that Sherlock Holmes had a great understanding of the human spirit, and as a detective, brought both justice  and mercy to bear in his cases.  The author knows his Holmes literature  very well and also pulls in a great deal of other literature from the  mystery genre in a way that provokes a great deal of curiousity.  I found  myself reading and rereading a lot of mystery fiction after finishing this  book.<br />This book will give you many insights into both Sherlock Holmes  and Conan Doyle, along with other mystery literature.  I have read the book  through several times, and it has really deepened my appreciation of  mystery literature and Holmes in general.  I would put it into the  &quot;desert island&quot; category of books.	2000-05-28
US	53002916	R2SF93E718MDL7	0345387651	394884897	The Cider House Rules	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Especially good if you liked the movie!	There is always a question of how a book and a movie made from a book compare.  In this case, I saw the movie and found that it enhanced the experience of reading the book, mainly because the characterizations in the  movies were so very good.  I particularly liked Michael Caine's performance  of Dr. Larch in the movie, and as I read the book, I could hear Caine's  voice and mannerisms throughout.<br />I think without having seen the movie,  I would not have found the book to be as good.  It is sometimes fairly  slow, with a number of digressions.  Having said that, the book does read  well, has good characters (who are expanded on from the movie), and a very  nice setting that is well described (Maine).<br />If you liked the movie,  read the book!  Of course, if you have read the book, see the movie too!	2000-05-12
US	53002916	R4MBISX3ZD1A8	0684848996	452099426	Boot Camp: Be All You Used to Be The Sergeant's Fitness and Nutrition Program	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Very Good Fitness Program- Book Provides Clear Instruction	I came across this book entirely by accident in that I unexpectedly won three months in the program it describes at a charity auction.  The three-week boot camp fitness program presented in the book is very similar  to the one you pay $300+ for.  The program really does work to get you in  shape quickly through the exercises used in marine boot camp.  Although the  program is tough, it is not killing.  It is gradual and does take into  account the need to stretch and warm down.  The book includes lots of  pictures, is clearly written, gives helpful hints, and provides  encouragement throughout. If you go through the exercises in the book, you  will get in shape and have fun doing it.  Yes, having an instructor yelling  at you to speed it up at 6 AM certainly helps to motivate you, but reading  the book will get you there too.	2000-04-17
