US	53007978	R3D1B7U3ABNWV1	0895260476	989380415	The Politically Incorrect Guide to American History	Books	5	28	42	N	Y	Demagogues Beware, Five Stars Plus!	This book and most for those Dr. Woods used as reference, are the enemy of the demagogue and the collectivist.  Economic writing style allows for an easy, quick read through the meaty truth of many events and people in American history with which most high school graduates will have familiarity.  What differentiates this history book from all others is that the truth, ugly as it may seem, is exposed.  Deal with it Americans.  Many historical figures we have been taught to admire may in fact be scoundrels and charlatans while some of those we have been taught to despise may have not been so bad after all.<br /><br />A well read history buff will already know much that Dr. Woods exposes; however, for those of us who have the need to know the real story behind some of the people, places, and events in our history, read and enjoy.  Material covered ranges from the Colonialists through to the Clinton administration.  While not scholarly in form, there are plenty of references to the source material for further reading and an excellent bibliography.  Collectivist ideology is blown to smithereens with historical and well documented facts.  PiG notes are nice little teases to more in depth reading in later text.  The Politically Incorrect Guide to American History should be a mandatory text in all high school history curricula.  Sadly it will never be because it puts the leftist agenda on the chopping block.  I hope Dr. Woods is so inclined to open his scope to world history and expose more truth for all to see.  Great book.	2005-09-21
US	53007978	RJ3DHRFVY2JUS	0060761288	877820062	100 People Who Are Screwing Up America (And Al Franken Is #37)	Books	4	227	384	N	N	Another List Book? Heck Why Not.	Like the previous reviewer I heard about this book on the Hannity show and ran over to the book store to buy it.  While I have yet to fully absorb the text it appears that Bernard Goldberg has delivered a book that may not have all the impact of his fine offering \\"Bias\\" but will certainly become a best seller. We Americans love lists so why not publish a list of malfeasants, at least according to conservative leaning libertarian type Bernard Goldberg.  Mostly a fair list though no conservatives are found in the top ten.  Some names will be easily recognizable, others only by the hard core news hounds.  Heavily weighted by leftists and rightly so (pun intended).  The top 10 will surprise you; most readers will not be familiar with all 10.  Michael Moore ranks at the top, with the second spot going to Arthur O. Sulzberger Jr., New York Times publisher and chairman of The Boston Globe's parent company, Ted Kennedy, the senior senator from Massachusetts, ranks No. 3 and Margaret Marshall, chief justice of the state's Supreme Judicial Court, ranks No. 7.  Others on the list include MIT professor of linguistics Noam Chomsky, at No. 11; former Vermont governor Howard Dean, at No. 20; and former state attorney general Scott Harshbarger, who formerly ran Common Cause and is now a partner at a Boston law firm, at No. 40.  Fun book I plan to use to spark some conversation around the dinner table at the next family gathering.	2005-07-06
US	53007978	R1P8MH75CQBPQX	1595230068	626637009	The Truth About Hillary: What She Knew, When She Knew It, and How Far She'll Go to Become President	Books	1	14	32	N	N	File Under Fiction	Edward Klein was interviewed on the Al Franken show today about some of the specifics in this book.  It turns out that that the author has very little evidence to support his claims relying mostly on hearsay, hack journalism, unintentional AND intentional deceit.  I must say this was compelling radio as it is very rare when an author gets called to the mat and collapses like a house of cards.  As a classical liberal, I am diametrically opposed to Hillary Clinton and her modern liberal collectivist agenda.  However, spewing lies in an attempt to discredit her is offensive and unnecessary.  Edward Klein admitted to having no desire to inject any accuracy or journalistic integrity because he is writing pop culture books only for the money.  If you are into pseudo biographical fiction then this is your ticket,  otherwise stay clear of this dreck.  Mr. Klein, please stop writing books.  Enough said.	2005-06-24
US	53007978	R368RBB090UD46	1930865686	975789042	Cato Handbook on Policy, 2005 (Cato Handbook for Policymakers)	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Best Book Published in 2005	I've been buying the \\"Cato Handbook\\" since the first edition.  As a rabid libertarian and freedom fighter, I am admittedly biased in favor of logic, truth, and liberty when it comes to U.S. policy making; so, of course, I love this book.  It is most fortunate for the few of us left who really love the American experiment that the Cato institute offers us the kind of solutions to the collectivist state we so desperately need.  Unfortunately, the lawyers in D.C. have absolutely no motivation to change the status quo.  This is the largest part of the problem, which is unfortunately, (probably just an oversight) is one of the few issues not addressed in this book. James Monroe, Thomas Jefferson, and the Federalists, would join the Anti-Federalists in horror by the state of the modern state.  Sure it is easy to say, and correctly so, that the U.S. is the most dominant country in the world.  So what? Are we truly the freest people?  Do we really enjoy the liberties desired by the framers of the Constitution?  For a little hint at the answer take a look at your next paycheck, the tax code, the law books, or CSPAN's coverage of congressional proceedings before you answer.<br /><br />The Cato Institute, and the few of us libertarians, seem to be the only voice of reason in this land of extreme socialist policy imposition. It is really quite a lonely place sometimes. The republicrats have been destroying this country since the civil war and have been on a road to destruction with an exponential curve.  The \\"New Deal\\" and the \\"Great Society\\" have all but destroyed our liberties.  The only way to reclaim our America is to implement many of the policies highlighted in this book. While I can't agree with the Cato institute on every recommendation (libertarians in general have priority paralysis on foreign policy) I do strongly agree with most.  This book is similar in form and substance to the other five published editions.  Well thought out position recommendations on a wide spectrum of issues we face today:<br /><br />Entitlement Reform, Taxes & Spending, Government Reform, Threats to Civil Liberties, Domestic Policy, Regulation, Energy & Environment, Foreign & Defense Policy, International Economic Policy<br /><br />I have sent a copy of this book to my senators and congressmen every term with a personal note that this book reflects my desires for the direction of the U.S.  If you love The United States of America, then I urge you to do the same.  \\"W,\\" late to the party, as usual, may actually turn out to be the greatest president since Teddy Roosevelt if he manages to privatize (even if only on a trivial level) social security.  Do you think this idea came from his cabinet?  Nope, the Cato Institute has been recommending this change since the first edition (see page 47 in this publication).<br /><br />Buy this book, turn off the television, and take your country back!spectrum of issues we face today:  <br /> <br />Entitlement Reform, Taxes & Spending, Government Reform, Threats to Civil Liberties, Domestic Policy, Regulation, Energy & Environment, Foreign & Defense Policy, International Economic Policy   <br /> <br />I have sent a copy of this book to my senators and congressmen every term with a personal note that this book reflects my desires for the direction of the U.S.  If you love The United States of America, then I urge you to do the same.  \\"W,\\" late to the party, as usual, may actually turn out to be the greatest president since Teddy Roosevelt if he manages to privatize (even if only on a trivial level) social security.  Do you think this idea came from his cabinet?  Nope, the Cato Institute has been recommending this change since the first edition (see page 47 in this publication).   <br /> <br />Buy this book, turn off the television, and take your country back!	2005-02-05
US	53007978	R3SJMV2BW2QWKK	0062731025	7474984	The Cartoon Guide to Statistics	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good Primer	As many other have noted, this is a good primer on a wide variety of statistical tools presented in a unique format.  It should help any student of statistics, mathematically challenged working professionals, or non-fiction skeptics get a good overview and understanding of some difficult statistical concepts.  Example data sets are small so as not to confuse with overwhelming amounts of data.  A one star hit from me for a couple of reasons.  1. I did have a little trouble with meaning on occasion as grammatical errors do force one to pause here and there to try and figure out what the author is trying to say.  A missing comma makes a huge difference in meaning.  2. The book is in desperate need of an update (copyright is 1993).  Most examples are calculated in long form.  Fine for understanding the mechanics and the author does make one or two references to Minitab; however, the book needs a bit of a makeover with more frequent reference to very commonly available statistical software packages.  Minitab is powerful but expensive.  Most people have Excel which can be easily utilized for most basic to intermediate statistical needs.<br /><br />That said, the author does keep it interesting with factoids peppered throughout.  The main concepts are highlighted well with good examples.  The end of the book provides short descriptions of lesser used but still very important concepts.  Chapter ten on \\"Experimental Design\\" is really more of a tease then anything else.  Fair enough because \\"Design of Experiments\\" (DOE) would have been tough to fully explore in this format anyway.  Overall this book is well done and provides clear explanation of what many might consider difficult to understand concepts found in a traditional statistics textbook.	2005-01-28
US	53007978	RFK2DIQIWKRBE	0792269217	359077660	Journals of Lewis and Clark (National Geographic Adventure Classics)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Simply Outstanding	This is an outstanding read made possible by excellent editing and editorial comment.  Some have criticized the editor for modernizing and correcting the spelling and even interpreting the notes found in of Lewis and Clark's journals.  Frankly I think that this is will make this edition of their journals more accessible to the masses.  Their continental crossing and return is one of the greatest stories ever told and thank goodness they documented it so carefully.<br /><br />The journey and this book have inspired me to make a trip or two next year to see for myself some of the places they saw and documented for the first time only two hundred years ago.  Great editorial notation on places, animals, and people to give the modern reader some reference along with beginning chapter notes.  Jefferson's amazing directive in its entirety is included.  I liked reading it and referencing some good maps so I could vicariously place myself with the expedition.  The Corps of Discovery was made up of great American heros.  This riveting journey is a must read for all ages.	2004-10-25
US	53007978	R18KZZAR25INE0	1401301347	457785813	When Will Jesus Bring the Pork Chops?	Books	4	11	17	N	N	George Is Unique	George continues to engage us with his unique observations about the world around us.  Similar in format and content to \\"Brain Droppings,\\" George offers up more of his brand of social satire vis-a-vis observations of the human animal and its habitat.  George is a no-holds-barred comedian and will most certainly offend at least everyone at some point.  If you are easily offended then maybe you'd better purchase a book that is, let's say, easily digested.  Something written by one of the current pop mental midgets like Bill O'Reilly or Michael Moore will do.  For those of us observing the planet and its inhabitants, you will enjoy this book.  Funny stuff.	2004-10-25
US	53007978	RKUNKGMA0C0AQ	074321966X	146281138	Reagan: A Life In Letters	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Excellent Read, Important History	The 40th President of the United States of America, Ronald Reagan, died today June 5, 2004.  I remember buying and reading this book some time ago and felt I needed to submit a review in honor of President Reagan.  Kiron K. Skinner did an excellent job profiling Reagan through his written works.  This book provides excellent insight into this very interesting man --a man so different from the man the leftist media would have you believe him to be.<br /><br />I was in high school when he was elected to his first term.  As a radical Libertarian I was never a huge Reagan fan because I thought he was too soft on domestic policy and government spending.  Also, I was fed a constant diet of leftist pablum from the major media.  However, books like this and personal growth helped me realize the error of my ways and I have since developed a great appreciation for the man.<br /><br />Faced with tremendous government failure during the seventies --especially during the Carter administration, Reagan tried to make the Goldwater dream a reality.  I much admire his eight year effort even if it was tainted by issues like Iran-Contra and the wacky antics associated with his astrology obsession.<br /><br />Nevertheless, Reagan gave us a purpose again --to fight the ultimate evil, Communism.  He was one of the few in Government to realize that the red scare was just a paper tiger so he called the Soviet bluff and won.  For this alone he will go down in history as one of the great Presidents.<br /><br />I now realize that Reagan was the closest to a Libertarian president we will ever have and I credit him for turning the cost cutting machine on even if it is very slow to show return.  His accomplishments were unequaled by any modern president.  History will prove to be very kind to this great leader.  RIP President Reagan.	2004-06-06
US	53007978	R2KVZDXI7NC6AY	1586482300	264231567	Inside: A Public and Private Life	Books	1	11	34	N	N	Delusional	They say that the road to hell is paved with good intentions. Well if that is true then LBJ was the Chief Engineer and Joseph Califano was Chief Architect.  LBJ was arguably the worst president in American history and Califano was his right hand man.  These memoirs, while honest and well written, are irrelevant due to his relationship to the disastrous effects that resulted from the Great Society.  As a Washington super insider for much of his career Califano represents everything that was/is wrong with modern politics and why the majority of eligible voters don?t bother to vote.  Corruption is only one problem in Washington (albeit a major one).  However, Califano, like G.W. Bush is proving now, demonstrates that a seemingly moral man with lots of power and little capacity for critical thought and understanding of the true issues and solutions can be just as dangerous as the crooks.  A 512-page apology for injecting an unrecoverable dose of collectivism into US domestic policy making and creating the welfare state would have been more appropriate.	2004-05-24
US	53007978	R2AASP20DVEL8T	1586482173	285320028	The Bubble Of American Supremacy: Correcting The Misuse Of American Power	Books	3	9	15	N	Y	Lucid, Cogent, Nous Analysis; Weak Solutions	Mr. Soros is not your typical decerebrate from the left.  He is sincere and comfortable removing emotion from his arguments.  Soros' grasp of financial markets and global economics is quite broad and deep and his analysis of the last 50 years found in chapter six is worth the price of the book alone.  As a disciple of Karl Popper's open society Mr. Soros is passionate about his mission -enough to spend many millions of dollars.  As a classical liberal, I admire Mr. Soros' general goal of establishing open societies and his effort to privately fund the growth of free societies worldwide.<br />Soros's thesis is that US hegemony has gone too far.  Our pernicious methods have all but guaranteed exponential growth in international problems unless we do something to curtail our powerful military actions.  The response to 9/11 should have been more of a police investigation  --not a military action.  On these points Soros is absolutely correct.  Epuration of Hussein is something upon which Soros seems to be indifferent; but he offers a very good analysis of the Bush administration's failure to adequately understand, plan, and accomplish a \\"war on terror.\\"  The Bush administration has failed miserably due to an emotional reaction driven by fundamentalist beliefs.  The result is a tremendously misguided use of our military overseas.  At home, civil liberties and social engineering in America have become easy targets for the Bush administration's didactic homeland security thugs.<br />Sadly, Soros readily accepts the Democratic party line and its candidates as an oscitant alternative.  While he is somewhat critical of the United Nations he is all too ready to accept the UN as a legitimate governing body over international issues.  The fact is Democrats will just throw my hard earned money down a rat hole faster then the Republicans.  The UN is a corrupt joke with absolutely no legitimacy.  Furthermore, Soros offers no criticism toward others in the G7.  In fact, he fawns over the European nations morphing into a French apologist half way through the book.  Students of history know that the Europeans created much of this gerrymandered mess and now we are forced to deal with the aftermath.<br />Soros rejects the notion of the moral imperative.  Instead Soros is motivated by the Popperian idea that absolute right and wrong cannot be known.  He calls it the \\"human uncertainty principle.\\" (197)  Based on that Soros humbly suggests that he may be wrong, but he is willing to take one for the team in an effort to open up the dialogue and stop the insanity.  While I admire his effort and do agree that the Bush administration is clearly out of control, moral imperatives do exist and do not necessarily have to be based on religious foundations. Soros instead suggests a more subversive methodology for achieving open societies and ridding the world of dictators and other leaders who stand in the way.  His critique of the US policy toward the states of the former Soviet Union, for example, is right on the money.  However his attack on a state's right to protect sovereignty is way off base and he loses a lot of points by constantly revisiting this idea.  Cultural differences alone make this an insane idea, let alone the multitude of metaphors acted upon as truth in the world.<br />I think George Soros is a good American who means well.  He cares deeply about nurturing freedom and open societies.  He understands that we are clearly playing a zero sum game in Iraq.  This book offers an excellent critique of the failures built into US policy.  He likens it to a bubble economic condition where the result can be \\"quite catastrophic, similar to a bubble's bursting.\\" (203)  Soros offers some weak solutions in chapter seven, but I think his goal is less solution based and more focused on stopping the freight train to destruction.  Soros does underestimate the fact the there are still really bad people in the world that need to be eliminated before his utopiacan be realized.  Strangely, Soros offers no detail on how to finance his ideas beyond suggesting that the US tax payer continue to foot the bill.  Wrong answer George.  While this book is by no means a quietus (Soros even says it is not its function), it is worth your time regardless of your politics.  The Republicrats have become homogenized talking heads and we need more meaningful rhetoric like the material presented in this book.can be realized.  Strangely, Soros offers no detail on how to finance his ideas beyond suggesting that the US tax payer continue to foot the bill.  Wrong answer George.  While this book is by no means a quietus (Soros even says it is not its function), it is worth your time regardless of your politics.  The Republicrats have become homogenized talking heads and we need more meaningful rhetoric like the material presented in this book.	2004-03-29
US	53007978	R25UKJRBG8L68U	0375502025	838599315	The Greatest Generation	Books	1	7	61	N	N	Browkaw The Simplton	Tom Brokaw should stick to news reading for his analytical skills are on par with a moron.  This book fawns over the WWII generation.  Sure there were some achievements.  So what, every generation has challenges some may be tougher then others but it is all relative.  As another reviewer noted, the WWII generation is the greatest compared to whom? How about comparing to the exponentially greater generation that had to manage though the American Revolution and a new constitutional government?  Of course there are many other examples.  The American WWII generation are no more great then any other.  They are being well compensated for their sacrifices in the form of free money courtesy of the working person.  We workers are forced to pay insane amounts into the ponzi schemes called Social Security and Medicare for which we will never see a dime or a minute of service.  Talk about reform and they all cry foul.  This is not the response I would expect from &quot;the greatest generation.&quot;  Stick to being a news personality Tom.	2004-02-26
US	53007978	R3GOCRKAV0PV5J	0842329129	46316172	Left Behind: A Novel of the Earth's Last Days (Left Behind No. 1)	Books	1	16	26	N	N	Hehehehehe...	Silly fairly tales.  Even on its own bottom shelf level it is very poorly written stuff.  Anyone who really believes this as truth is clearly a moron.	2004-02-09
US	53007978	RKFBUKDH78JSN	0886879108	839139642	The World Almanac and Book of Facts 2004	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Stunning Value	Open this 1000+ page book to any page and find something fascinating.  Save for maybe the dictionary, I can say that about few books.  For raw staticstics the only book on par with this is the Statistical Abstract published by the US government.  However, the abstract weighs in at nearly 7 times the cost of the world almanac.  This book is clearly the best value going.  I buy one of these every couple of years and it continues to be fresh and full of interesting facts about our world.	2003-12-30
US	53007978	R3XJMKV44AU38	1930865228	739155882	James Madison and the Future of Limited Government	Books	5	13	17	N	Y	Classical Liberals Unite!	As a classical liberal my beliefs have become an anachronism in America.  I belong to a philosophical social club so small that when books like this come along we are given hope that the masses will wake up to the tyranny.  Alas, hope is quickly dashed upon the realization that the Fabian socialists have dumbed down the masses over the last forty years to the point that the arguments presented in this book are far beyond most Americans' comprehension, let alone their ability to affect change.<br />Nonetheless, this is an outstanding group of expertly written essays that are well presented by editor John Samples.  Samples also writes one of the essays and an excellent introduction.  Some of the topics presented are:  Federalism, abuse of the general welfare clause, multiculturalism, democracy, and the essence of representative government, pure democracy, rule of law, and foreign policy.  Using historical documents each author is able to help us understand the brilliant mind of Madison and that the abuses of government we are experiencing were foreseen not just by the Anti-Federalists but by Madison as well.  These brave men gave us a system that, while less then perfect, is the most advanced in human history.<br />However, as the editor notes, there is an implicit understanding for this design to work.  That understanding is that there is virtue among us.  Madison once asked, 'is there no virtue among us?  If there be not, we are in a wretched situation.  No theoretical checks -no form of government can render us secure.  To suppose that any form of government will secure liberty or happiness without any virtue in the people is a chimerical idea.'  Do Americans possess enough virtue to maintain a limited government?  To do so we need to be well educated, remain skeptical of government, and act on that skepticism.  We must reject statements from family and friends like \\"they should do something about that.\\"  No they shouldn't, we should.  Keep the government out of it.<br />I, like one of the contributing authors James Buchanan, am less optimistic about our future.  I think the socialists are winning and have created a society where individual liberty has been cast aside as an old conservative idea and replaced with an environment \\"where everyone seeks to take wealth from someone else.\\"  Sadly I have tended to give up on the dream that liberty, free thought, speech, and economic markets can once again be a reality in America.  I vote now for total gridlock so as to hopefully stop all new legislation, taxes, and pork.<br />This wonderful book renews my love of our experiment even if it has gone awry.  It offers me solace in these tough times of ever increasing government abuse.  This book has renewed my vigor to keep up the fight for what is right and not just settle for government gridlock.f it.  <br />I, like one of the contributing authors James Buchanan, am less optimistic about our future.  I think the socialists are winning and have created a society where individual liberty has been cast aside as an old conservative idea and replaced with an environment \\"where everyone seeks to take wealth from someone else.\\"  Sadly I have tended to give up on the dream that liberty, free thought, speech, and economic markets can once again be a reality in America.  I vote now for total gridlock so as to hopefully stop all new legislation, taxes, and pork.<br />This wonderful book renews my love of our experiment even if it has gone awry.  It offers me solace in these tough times of ever increasing government abuse.  This book has renewed my vigor to keep up the fight for what is right and not just settle for government gridlock.	2003-10-27
US	53007978	R9BAO5WFW67U0	0743225708	281016025	Bringing Down the House: The Inside Story of Six M.I.T. Students Who Took Vegas for Millions	Books	4	1	1	N	N	MIT: More Then Just Zeros and Ones	Apparently one can also learn about kings, queens and aces at MIT.  More specifically, probability theory is put to work with a very profitable return.  I suspect Fermat would have been impressed.  logicalreviewer hit upon the few logical issues I had with this book as well.  In addition, it reads like a screenplay with each chapter ending with a \\"fade to commercial\\" type dramitic effect.  Kind of silly effect for a non-ficional account of an interesting story.  The last paragraph of the story felt contrived.<br /><br />That said, it is a fun and quick read.  I did enjoy the story through the noisey writing style.  Under the tutelage of a rebel professor, a small group of MIT students use a forty year old counting theory updated to reflect modern gambling technology.  It is called card counting throughout the book, but in reality it is a developed skill that allows one to determine probablility at any given point in the game of blackjack with a six deck shoe.  Unlike the character in \\"Rain Man,\\" these students didn't have to remember the order of every card delt.  They refined a system that allowed for rapid calculations.  Quite a simple method if you want to win against your buddies in a home game.  However, in reality the students are quite intelligent and applied this simple methodology to a very complex application.  Under the careful watch of the dealers, bosses, supervisors, casino  cameras, lights, dancers, servers, crowds, other players, and many distractions found in a casino, keeping track of a deck position and then taking advantage of it is quite another challenge.  It is quite clear that the average person can not do what they did.<br /><br />Overall this is an interesting story of a few bright people who used their ability to rapidly calculate probabilities and swing the blackjack odds, normally in favor of the house, in their favor.  While legal, this practice is not accepted by the casinos because the odds are with them and they want to keep it that way.  You get caught and they will make you leave.  The trick is not getting caught and that is 90% of the challenge in the story.  The suckers throwing their money away twenty four hours a day will keep coming.  The casinos are happy to have them just as long as they are not from MIT!t caught and they will make you leave.  The trick is not getting caught and that is 90% of the challenge in the story.  The suckers throwing their money away twenty four hours a day will keep coming.  The casinos are happy to have them just as long as they are not from MIT!	2003-09-29
US	53007978	R1WXP3XIZ8D8WN	1930865392	228519699	Cato Handbook for Congress, 108th Congress (Cato Handbook for Policymakers)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Well Thought Out	A logical, concise, and thorough analysis of issues no body wants to discuss.  The topics are well presented one by one within the context of the threats to the American way of life as prescribed by the US Constitution.  It seems that we have lost our way and this book is a road map to set us back on course.  Major topics include: Terrorism, Government Reform, Civil Liberties, Money and Banking, Domestic Policy, Regulation, Energy & Environment, Foreign & Domestic Policy, International Economic Policy.  The Cato Institute is addressing the issues here that every congressional representative, senator, and the president are afraid to address because US politics is not about doing what is right, but who can steal the most.<br />As a libertarian I am sickened by the current state of the state.  Federalism is dead, boondoggle's are a dime a dozen, the government rapes me every paycheck, social security is a pyramid scam that allows only a select few early participates tremendous return, the world cop (US) is hated by all nations and yet it costs us billions to protect these whiney countries, government jobs are just an extended welfare program, corporate welfare is offensive, environmental laws favor deep pockets, etc.  This excellent book does more then just identify the problems.  It suggests logical remedies to the many problems the government has created.  The writers not only balance the budget, but they cut $309 Billion in chapter 23 --every I agree with every cut.  I have sent a copy of this book to both my congressional and senatorial representative with a note that this is my desired action plan.  I challenge every American that loves this country and wants the insanity to stop to do the same.	2003-02-15
US	53007978	R3I1EM2NPS00AD	0130308781	552912134	Learning Business Statistics with Microsoft Excel 2000	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	One of the best	I think this is one of the best books on this topic available.  I have purchased many in an effort to merge statistical knowledge with the Excel application.  While Excel is a powerful tool it can be tough to figure out how to harness all that power.  It is an expertly written, no-frills book.  The author clearly knows how frustrating most of the other Excel books on the market can be so he takes great care to walk you though the steps to success.  A one star hit for a few noticeable things missing.  One topic I really would like to have seen is creation of boxplots (very tough to do in Excel).  A minor issue though because this book is loaded with great infromation and step-by-step approaches.<br /><br />It is a bit pricey but I think well worth the price.  If you can find it second hand then all the better because there is no data or sample disc included.  I usually find the lack of a disc for such an expensive book annoying; however, there is a web site for you to download the data files referenced in the book so everything makes sense.  As the title suggests the focus is business statistical applications.  Bottom line: great book.	2002-10-23
US	53007978	R36DM7BLIG03ZA	0140296468	217254911	The New New Thing: A Silicon Valley Story	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Let's Put Some Lipstick On This Pig	The majority of the reviews on this board have apparently overlooked the real reason this is a good book.  This is not a good book because it was well written; it was not.  There is a plethora of filler material focused on Clark's silly rich boy adventures.  Lewis probably thought this filler necessary as an allegory.  The result, however, is a clunky narrative.  The reader can and should skip whole chapters.  Some may think this book is good because it appears to tell the story of a Silicon Valley guru with an uncanny vision of the future.  Clark is neither the guru nor the visionary the fawning author of this book would have you believe.  Clark is nothing more then a brutish, nuevo rich&eacute; hick whose so-called visionary ideas were nothing short of obvious.  The problem is that many people bought into the silliness and the result was best described by Alan Greenspan as \\"irrational exuberance.\\"<br />The book is an unintended expos&eacute; of an egomaniacal personality that managed to con a lot of people out of their money by use of the oldest financial sucker scheme in history -the pyramid.  Clark manages to do it not once but twice with Netscape and Healtheon.  The book offers the reader some insight to the parasitic dynamic of the latter nineties' internet \\"boom\\" involving smoke and mirrors tech companies with no model or hope for cash flow, questionable venture capitalist and investment banker dealings, out-of-touch Wall Street financial managers, and individual investors so greedy that common sense investing was left for dead.<br />I will concede that Clark's original geometric chip design and the concentrated talent of engineers he hired at Silicon Graphics in the early to mid-eighties was something to be proud of.  However, that is where the story of someone who produced something ends.  Throughout the book Clark is somehow extolled as the defender of the proletariat, the man who concerns himself first with the common hard working stiff, a man cheated out of the ownership of the company he started.  Clark is no hero, nor is he a victim.  We are supposed to believe that he is a mathematical, techno visionary that somehow can't understand the basic concept that a business can only survive if it is profitable.  If the business is in trouble then you must borrow money to keep it afloat.  Borrowed money comes at a price, a price Clark was unwilling to accept only after it was too late.  He is the drug addict complaining that the loan shark ripped him off.<br />Clark's disdain for business professionals is comical because by the early nineties he morphed into a character that represents everything he supposedly hates.  Jim Clark is nothing more than a megalomaniac who, along with his cronies, created virtual pyramid schemes and sold them to the masses as the future.  While I have no sympathy for the suckers, including and especially Time Warner, who bought into these money-losing schemes I do think it is important to get the message of this book straight.  Jim Clark is a clown at best and a huckster at worst.  He is far from a Silicon Valley hero, let alone a great business success story.<br />This book is important because it highlights everything that was wrong with business in the nineties.  There is a reason Graham and Dodd (which Lewis more then once eschews as outdated business principles) schooled investors are the richest and most respected in the world of business.  It is because understanding of the importance of good management, solid business fundamentals, and cash flow count.  Concepts with which Clark is wholly unfamiliar.  Present value calculations must be substantive and not imagined like the pie in the sky Silicon silliness of the nineties.  Every business student should have to read this book and understand this very important lesson.rship of the company he started.  Clark is no hero, nor is he a victim.  We are supposed to believe that he is a mathematical, techno visionary that somehow can't understand the basic concept that a business can only survive if it is profitable.  If the business is in trouble then you must borrow money to keep it afloat.  Borrowed money comes at a price, a price Clark was unwilling to accept only after it was too late.  He is the drug addict complaining that the loan shark ripped him off.<br />Clark's disdain for business professionals is comical because by the early nineties he morphed into a character that represents everything he supposedly hates.  Jim Clark is nothing more than a megalomaniac who, along with his cronies, created virtual pyramid schemes and sold them to the masses as the future.  While I have no sympathy for the suckers, including and especially Time Warner, who bought into these money-losing schemes I do think it is important to get the message of this book straight.  Jim Clark is a clown at best and a huckster at worst.  He is far from a Silicon Valley hero, let alone a great business success story.<br />This book is important because it highlights everything that was wrong with business in the nineties.  There is a reason Graham and Dodd (which Lewis more then once eschews as outdated business principles) schooled investors are the richest and most respected in the world of business.  It is because understanding of the importance of good management, solid business fundamentals, and cash flow count.  Concepts with which Clark is wholly unfamiliar.  Present value calculations must be substantive and not imagined like the pie in the sky Silicon silliness of the nineties.  Every business student should have to read this book and understand this very important lesson.	2002-09-10
US	53007978	ROYHYMSAY76NI	0385493622	603019861	Fermat's Enigma: The Epic Quest to Solve the World's Greatest Mathematical Problem	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Beautiful, Awe Inspiring, Enlightening, Triumph of Humanity	Fermat's Enigma is a wonderful mathematical journey through time.  Very well written, the story is hinged upon the oldest and most difficult math proof ever put forth  --a math problem very easy to understand but so difficult to prove that even a trust full of deutsch marks was established almost one hundred years ago for whomever could provide the solution.  This 300-year-old problem has baffled the greatest mathematical minds since Pierre de Fermat jotted it down in the margins of his copy of \\"Arithmetica.\\"  The motivation among the mathematically inclined to solve this proof was a cryptic Fermat notation in the same book that he had indeed proved his claim.  However, complete notes of his proof were never found, so it has remained only a conjecture.  Fortunately Fermat did leave us with the enticing evidence that n¹4.  Fermat was a lunatic genius mathematician.  He shunned formal application of mathematics and instead chose to embrace it as an art form, baffling and taunting the greatest minds of his day with seemingly impossible mathematical conundrums that had little or no practical application.<br />The story of this problem, however, cannot be told without exploring the rich history of mathematics, and specifically number theory, from Pythagoras, Euclid, and Diophantus to Descartes, Euler, Germain, Taniyama, Shimura, and Wiles.  Wiles!  Who's that?  He is the man who after eight tenacious years finally proved Fermat's conjecture.  Wiles carefully constructed a brilliant proof on a substrate designed by historical giants in mathematics.  He combined theories in elliptic equations with modular forms with levels of math so scary that only a few people could ever understand it, let alone compute it.  Fortunately the story is told with the layperson in mind.<br />This is an extraordinary journey through history.  It is a gripping adventure that acknowledges the cumulative knowledge of a bevy of multicultural mathematical geniuses, the many claims to the solution, and one man's intense desire to solve the hardest math problem ever.  To prove Fermat's conjecture, Wiles had to first prove the fifty-year-old Taniyama-Shimura conjecture -an incredible feat in itself.  The result is a monumental advancement in mathematics.<br />While Wiles' proof by use of advanced modern mathematics is a stunning achievement, the question still remains:  If, and that if is a big one, Fermat proved n cannot be > 2, then how did he do it?  I've got pencil to paper right now...just kidding.and one man's intense desire to solve the hardest math problem ever.  To prove Fermat's conjecture, Wiles had to first prove the fifty-year-old Taniyama-Shimura conjecture -an incredible feat in itself.  The result is a monumental advancement in mathematics. <br />While Wiles' proof by use of advanced modern mathematics is a stunning achievement, the question still remains:  If, and that if is a big one, Fermat proved n cannot be > 2, then how did he do it?  I've got pencil to paper right now...just kidding.	2002-07-21
US	53007978	R3JJXDIKWT6XDG	0754800911	367561713	The Ultimate Encyclopedia of Mythology	Books	3	24	25	N	N	Nice reference for selected myth	This is only a partial reference book for fans of myth.  For some myth it is hard to keep all the names and relationships in order and this book does a nice of that.  Nice graphics and logical flow.  The only issue I have is that this book tip toes around the christian, jewish, and islamic myths without proper recognition of the characters and events.  Maybe the authors assumed readers would already be familiar with the characters in the bible and koran or the publisher wanted to save paper.  In any case it would have been a nice addition making this truely a complete encyclopedia of mythology.	2002-07-05
US	53007978	R16RO2RNWM1PHO	0534526500	798301068	Data Analysis In Plain English with Microsoft Excel	Books	2	9	10	N	Y	Pass On This One	This book is mostly a waste of money unless you are taking a class requiring this as a textbook.  Why?  Because it is written like a textbook!  Every chapter ends with pages of great questions that remain unanswered because the only place to get the answer is a special order instructor's version.  I am not taking a class.  I foolishly expected it to be a complete teaching tool and business reference.  There isn't even a disc included --a requirement for a book this expensive.<br />For an understanding of Excel's data analysis features, skip this book.  Instead, check out \\"Data Analysis With Microsoft Excel\\" a much better book with a great disc and a fantastic macro included.  Some of the information in this book is useful but for the money look for a more comprehensive book.	2002-05-22
US	53007978	R12T3LQ3AYS9BG	0130453528	177752947	12 HOUR MBA PROGRAM	Books	3	17	22	N	Y	An OK overview, but...	...I didn't need 12 hours to read it.  This is a cursory approach to material that demands more, much more.  The entire book is easily digested in a half hour or so.  This book provides an OK overview of the MBA curriculum, much like a one-day seminar or an expanded \\"B\\" school marketing brochure might.  This book is by no means a useful tool, let alone a replacement for the formal education.<br />I can see why many people gave this a good review.  It is easy to read and it does offer a brief summary of many of the concepts found in \\"B\\" school.  However, it is really lightweight stuff.  I would equate this to a Cliffs notes MBA, i.e. what's the point.  There is really nothing of substance in this book that you can bite into.  Just when you are ready to dig into the concept the chapter ends with a list of further reading.  A better title for this book would be, \\"So Your Thinking Of Getting An MBA.\\"  I don't find this even a good reference tool to refresh a concept or calculation.<br />For a far more useful business reference tool that will provide meaty information found in a formal MBA program check out the \\"The Vest-Pocket MBA\\" instead.  The VP MBA is much better value.	2002-05-12
US	53007978	RCXFOMSP678PU	1570713960	377810139	The Accounting Game : Basic Accounting Fresh from the Lemonade Stand	Books	5	142	150	N	Y	Fantastic Learning Tool	Don't let this book title fool you.  It is not an oversimplification of accounting and financial principles.  It is, however, a serious and very effective examination of a very small but progressively complex business.  There are not many books available on the market that make a complex and dry subject understandable and even fun.  This book successfully does just that.  The authors help the reader understand the principles without getting caught up in large numbers to confuse matters.<br />This book is a brilliant analysis of the original small business --a lemonade stand.  This business starts off simple and progresses into a more and more complex financial entity over the course of several weeks.  While it is so well explained that even the average teen could undertsand it, this book is a serious learning tool for anyone and does not in any way take on a condescending tone.  The authors have fun, but offer meaty information.  Ever wonder what the difference and advantages are between the accural and cash methods or why the statement of cashflows is so important or how depreciation effects the bottom line or how the decision to use LIFO or FIFO effects the income statement? All those answers and many more are nicely illustrated in this wonderful book.	2002-03-17
US	53007978	R1MSZLVZW5HVOP	0844257672	811417490	World Mythology	Books	4	11	27	N	Y	Fine Collection, But Incomplete	The title is something of a misnomer.  This is a fine collection of ancient myths found throughout world history.  However, it is intellectually dishonest because the author fails to recognize some of the most powerful myths in human history --namely those found in the Bible and Koran.  Sure the book would have been huge, but at leasty a treatise or an explaination for exclusioon would have been appropriate.  Furthermore, exclusion of modern myth is suggestively written off as just being repetitive or not existent in our far more sophisticated and complex world.  I'll admit that modern myth is scarce, but it exists and is just as important.<br />Myth is an important mirror for humans to see their own reflection and learn about their journey through metaphor.  This book does a fine job covering ancient myth from various cultures; however, exclusion of the most influential myths and a nod to some modern classics was a serious oversight.	2001-12-09
US	53007978	R1CY2421WXHNNS	0786867531	417315662	Fame: Ain't it a Bitch: Confessions of a Reformed Gossip Columnist	Books	1	5	8	N	N	AJ Who?	AJ Borza is as boring in print as he is in real life.  A nobody trying so desperately to be somebody, but failing misearbly.  Fame is something the no talent Borza will never have so there is justice in the world.  Go ahead and buy this book because he needs to money to pay his rent now that he has been fired from three jobs in two weeks.  And now, Mr. Borza, we return you to your regularly scheduled anonymous life...bahahahahahahahahahaha!	2001-08-13
US	53007978	R11HP9KVE6EFZL	1573221813	834334792	The Road to Wealth: A Comprehensive Guide to Your Money--Everything You Need to Know in Good and Bad Times	Books	2	41	47	N	N	Homespun Investing Advice	The condescending tone is indicative of the target audience for this book.  If all you have ever done with money is go to work to earn it and then spend it without care to your future, then you do need this book because you won't understand a real book on money management or investing.  Ms. Orman offers only a general overview of how to manage money.  The information in this book is not enough, but is a good start for a novice.<br />However, most people don't want to know the truth.  Here's the secret found in 629 pages: all you need to do is eliminate all credit card debt, spend less than you earn, and invest the difference on a regular schedule in a few no load equity index and bond mutual funds.  Pretty darn simple.  If you need a book to motivate you then so be it.  For anyone beyond novice level, skip this one.	2001-08-08
US	53007978	R2G88CQXPO9IEH	0805063889	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	1	24	51	N	N	Whine, Whine, Whine	Barbara Ehrenreich has captured the essence of the \\"feel good\\" left positions perfectly in this book.  More anti-American drivel from the socialist left who want to redistribute the nation's wealth.  She fails to realize that her arguments are not only bad economics, but philosophically a slippery slope.  She and her ilk fail to understand three of the most important things about living in our free society.  First, no one is forcing anyone to work for minimum wage.  Second, just as social security was not meant to provide a full comfortable retirement, minimum wage is not meant to be a living wage.  Third, people must take responsibility for their actions.  You should not have children if all you are capable of earning is minimum wage.  But if you have not planned ahead, then get two or three minimum wage jobs.  Of course the government rapes you in taxes when you do get multiple jobs, so aren't they the real enemy here?<br />Ms. Ehrenreich suggests that a decent minimum wage would be something in the $14 per hour range.  She lays blame on the middle and upper class for their apathy toward this \\"under class.\\"  Ms. Ehrenreich can take a flying leap.  I worked my tail off along with many in my class to get where I am and combined with a little luck I am cutting my own path through life.  Sure I hated working in poor conditions for low wages all the while paying my way through school, but that is what builds character and feeds the human need to experience the journey and all its fantasic ups and downs.  For those Americans unwilling to partake in this glorious journey, then seek safe harbor elsewhere -just stay out of my pocket.  Here's a novel idea: MOVE.  Too lazy to move, ok, family, communities, synagogues, and churches all over the US have plenty of support systems to help you if you are in dire straits.<br />Fortunately, Ms. Ehrenreich's ill-conceived positions are irrelevant not taken seriously by anyone of import.  Her pedantic agenda is embraced only by the ivory tower elite, limousine liberals, and Fabian socialists -all of which have a combined IQ and capacity for critical thought equal to an amoebae.ivory tower elite, limousine liberals, and Fabian socialists -all of which have a combined IQ and capacity for critical thought equal to an amoebae.	2001-06-05
US	53007978	R39W9CGUA77MM3	0679783369	724452350	The Wealth of Nations (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	98	120	N	Y	The Y2K - Modern Library Classics Version	I am reviewing the Modern Library Classics version with an introduction by former labor secretary Robert Reich.  To minimize repetition, the differences for this version:  This massive book is complete and unabridged (all five books).  There is a great added feature in the form of small summary notes in the margin that accompany each paragraph.  Adam Smith was a masterful writer of prose and communicates some of the most important economic and philosophical ideas in the history of western civilization.  Economic theory never read so beautifully.<br />An interesting choice for an introduction is Robert Reich.  He is one of the few intellectuals from the left, and while I disagree with him more often than not, I respect his thought process.  He offers his interpretation of Smith and how the ideas found in TWoN fit neatly with his positions.  Selective reasoning or not, Reich does offer a nice summary line: \\"In these times, as when Adam Smith wrote, it is important to remind ourselves of the revolutionary notion at the heart of Smith's opus-that the wealth of a nation is measured not by its accumulated riches, but by the productivity and living standards of all its people.\\"  Nicely said and I agree.  I just disagree with Reich and his ilk on how the \\"wealth\\" of the modern nation is achieved.  Adam Smith offers the roadmap, but it is up to us to keep lawmakers in DC or [insert any central government here] from regulating and taxing us to death --relegating Smith's work to the dust bin.	2001-02-15
US	53007978	R3HPDHEUT1V2SL	0767905288	579302723	The O'Reilly Factor: The Good, the Bad, and the Completely Ridiculous in American Life	Books	2	10	14	N	N	Long on ego, short on substance	After reading \\"The O'Reilly Factor\\" I realized just how far I've lowered my standards.  I tune into the televised factor a couple of times a week for a more honest approach to issues.  But after reading this book, I was shaken by the fact that the flow of ideas in America have become so restricted and sterile and the major outlets for information have become so corrupt by the politically correct left that Bill O'Reilly's show and book seem revolutionary by comparison.<br />While the first few chapters are ok, the truth is, his ideas, format, and approach are far from revolutionary.  Bill O'Reilly offers rather mundane observations that run from the truly obtuse found in the chapters on parents, dating, sex, the spouse, the child etc., to the silly as evidenced by the drug and alcohol , the job, and race chapters.  And what can be only categorized as the \\"who cares\\" chapters found in \\"the bad\\" and \\"the good\\" sections are nothing short of throw away filler.  O'Reilly fans like facts.  The fact is Bill O'Reilly is only slightly brighter than the talking heads found on all of the other media outlets.  A sad state of affairs indeed.<br />O'Reilly didn't really even try to put together anything worthy of note in this book.  A stream of consciousness format is utilized that wouldn't challenge even a high school sophomore.  Like his show, he delves into too many topics  --many of which are tedious and lack evidence or fact.  He offers insight into child rearing based solely on his experience then transitions into a chapter to brag about his dating exploits.  I admire an egocentric personality if they have the intellect to back it up.  Bill O'Reilly is far from an intellectual.  Instead of an honest leap into a few important issues that may yield some insightful payoff, O'Reilly offers the reader a wide range of topical ramblings which leaves you with the same emptiness you would have if you were to do your weekly shopping at a 7-11.  I suspect even Bill would be bored by these observations if he didn't actually write them.<br />While I have found there are still some great thinkers out there authoring books, periodicals, and the occasional essay, sadly they are becoming as rare as personal rights and responsibilities in America.  While I think Bill O'Reilly really believes he is trying to seek truth even if his method is shallow -even somewhat satirical, very little of an honest search is reflected in this book.  If you are looking for light hearted fare then so be it, though P.J. O'Rourke is a far superior satirist.  For serious, thoughtful writing on the state of America, look elsewhere.these observations if he didn't actually write them.  <br />While I have found there are still some great thinkers out there authoring books, periodicals, and the occasional essay, sadly they are becoming as rare as personal rights and responsibilities in America.  While I think Bill O'Reilly really believes he is trying to seek truth even if his method is shallow -even somewhat satirical, very little of an honest search is reflected in this book.  If you are looking for light hearted fare then so be it, though P.J. O'Rourke is a far superior satirist.  For serious, thoughtful writing on the state of America, look elsewhere.	2001-01-04
US	53007978	R3658FHVW1CGAL	0767905288	579302723	The O'Reilly Factor: The Good, the Bad, and the Completely Ridiculous in American Life	Books	2	11	27	N	N	Long on ego, short on substance	After reading \\"The O'Reilly Factor\\" I realized just how far I've lowered my standards.  I tune into the televised factor a couple of times a week for a more honest approach to issues.  But after reading this book, I was shaken by the fact that the flow of ideas in America have become so restricted and sterile and the major outlets for information have become so corrupt by the politically correct left that Bill O'Reilly's show and book seem revolutionary by comparison.  <br />The truth is, his ideas, format, and approach are far from revolutionary.  Bill O'Reilly offers rather mundane observations that run from the truly obtuse found in the chapters on parents, dating, sex, the spouse, the child etc., to the silly as evidenced by the drug and alcohol,the job,and race chapters.  And what can be only categorized as the \\"who cares\\" chapters found in \\"the bad\\" and \\"the good\\" sections are nothing short of throw away filler.  O'Reilly fans like facts.  The fact is Bill O'Reilly is only slightly brighter than the talking heads found on all of the other media outlets.  A sad state of affairs indeed.<br />Unfortunately, O'Reilly didn't really try to put together anything worthy of note in this book.  It is a stream of consciousness format that wouldn't challenge even a high school sophomore.  Like his show, he delves into too many topics  --many of which are tedious.  He offers insight into child rearing based solely on his experience then transitions into a chapter to brag about his dating exploits.  I admire an egocentric personality if they have the intellect to back it up.  Alas, Bill O'Reilly is far from an intellectual.  Instead of an honest leap into a few important issues that may yield some insightful payoff, O'Reilly offers the reader a wide range of topical ramblings which leaves you with the same emptiness you would have if you were to do your weekly shopping at 7-11.  I suspect even Bill would be bored by these observations if he didn't actually write them.  <br/>While I have found there are still some great thinkers out there authoring books, periodicals, and the occasional essay, sadly they are becoming as rare as personal rights and responsibilities in America.  While I think Bill O'Reilly really believes he is trying to seek truth even if his method is somewhat satirical, very little of an honest search is reflected in this book.  If you are looking for light-hearted fare then so be it, though P.J. O'Rourke is a far superior satirist.  For serious, thoughtful writing on the state of America, look elsewhere.	2000-12-30
US	53007978	R38RBPRMWNABO6	0740710893	172744961	Roger Ebert's Movie Yearbook 2001	Books	2	5	16	N	N	Reviewer For The Masses	Roger Ebert is a movie critic.  Gene Siskel was a film critic.  Ebert is truely a movie reviewer for the masses.  He does a good job pointing the common mind toward the all of the movies made for them to consume.  After all, it was Roger who said that &quot;Three Kings&quot; was one of the best movies of 1999 (#3 to be exact).  Need I say more?  For the rest of us our only filter was Gene Siskel who was a far superior film critic to Ebert, and everyone else for that matter.  If you are a movie fan then this book will help you with your movie rental search and keep you from wasting money on the real mind numbing garbage.  However, if you like film, search elsewhere.	2000-11-22
US	53007978	RL0YFPQN32QQK	0451523482	283617845	The Day of the Locust (Signet Classics)	Books	5	18	24	N	N	One of my favorite novels	This book is as relevent today as it was in the thirties...maybe even more so.  Why do people flock to California, \\"the land of sunshine and oranges?  Once there they discover that sunshine isn't enough. They get  tired of the oranges, even of avocado pears and passion fruit. Nothing  happens. They don't know what to do with their time. They haven't the  mental equipment for pleasure...their boredom becomes more and more  terrible. They realize they've been tricked and burn with resentment...the  sun is a joke. Oranges can't titillate their jaded pallets. Nothing can  ever be violent enough to make taut their slack minds and bodies. They have  been cheated and betrayed. They have slaved and saved for nothing.\\"  Brilliant stuff that captures the discontent of newcomers to Califonia and  specifically jollywood. The joke that Californians are flakes and freaks  is reflected not in the natives but those from elsewhere seeking more and  more sensual satisfaction. A timeless book.	2000-03-09
US	53007978	R33TKCZSEZOUO7	0140237550	618656289	The Best of the Blues: The 101 Essential Blues Albums	Books	2	15	16	N	N	Poor Blues Reference Book	If a guy whose passion was really rock and roll were to write a book on essential blues, this would be it.  All the recommendations are safe rock 'n' roller type picks which aren't bad just inconsistant and incomplete due  to unfamiliarity with the genre.  The real crime is that essential people  are left out like Robert Nighthawk.  Buy the AMG Blues Guide instead and  make your own top 100.	1999-05-17
US	53007978	R1FPAFZRASAJW	0879305487	731335835	All Music Guide to the Blues: The Experts' Guide to the Best Blues Recordings (2nd Ed)	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	By Far The Best Blues Reference Guide Available	I've read them all and this is the very best of all the blues guides available.  While some of the reviews are inconsistant as are the recommended CDs, reviews and recommendations by Bill Dahl and Cub Coda,  which account for most of them, are 100% on the mark every time. It is an  excellent way start a killer blues library and avoid the less than  desirable CDs and save yourself some money.  This is the one to buy.	1999-05-17
US	53007978	RZ79NDE59MM0K	0753502267	611412108	The Virgin Encyclopedia of the Blues (Virgin Encyclopedias of Popular Music)	Books	1	2	2	N	N	Horrible Blues Reference Book	Avoid this one at all costs.  While the artist biographies are O.K. no information that may have been learned is added --especially on the obscure artists.  Futhermore this book is full of offensive CD ratings and the  editor is clearly enamored with British blues stars!  In addition, it is  formatted to save pages (money) so it is very hard to read. Also, many  artists are not even mentioned.<br />In the beginning of the book they talk  about the one &quot;*&quot; thru five &quot;*****&quot; star ratings and  indicate that while a four star is an excellent CD and &quot;highly  recommended,&quot; a five star is &quot;OUTSTANDING in every way&quot; and  therfore essential to any music collection.<br />Well frankly, the couple of  examples below speak for themselves.  I have all of these recordings in one  form or another and strongly disagree with every last rating.  Avoid this  this one and pick up the AMG guide instead.<br />Examples:<br />Them - The World  Of Them ***** Bobby &quot;Blue&quot; Bland - I Pity The Fool: The Duke  Recordings Vol. 1 ***<br />Chicken Shack - Forty Blue Fingers Freshly Packed  And Ready To Serve **** Lowell Fulson - San Francisco Blues  ***<br />Groundhogs - Split **** Lightnin' Hopkins - Complete Aladin  ****<br />John Mayall - Bare Wires ***** Johnny Littlejohn &amp; The Chicago  Blues Allstars *** Walter Horton - Mouth Harp Maestro *** Howlin' Wolf -  Memphis Days Vol. 1 and 2 ***<br />Savoy Brown - Blue Matter **** Robert  Nighthawk - Live On Maxwell Street *** Otis Rush - Cobra Recordings (not  even mentioned) Tampa Red - Guitar Wizard ***<br />Cream - Disraeli Gears  ***** Allman Brother Band - Live Filmore East ****	1998-11-02
US	53007978	R1OQYUO84C7YMX	0553473026	359819030	The Rants	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Dennis Miller For President	Get the audio version of his Rants for that unusual Dennis Miller style and pace.  Obscure references and all, he presents 35 rants that will make you laugh, think, and want to just screem out &quot;I'm mad as hell, and I'm not going to take it anymore.&quot;  Dennis Miller is a clear breath of fresh air in this world of carbon monoxide journalism and talking head editorial commentary	1997-06-23
US	53007978	R32A06V1BL5UQ6	081331951X	459752409	The Art of War (History and Warfare)	Books	5	6	9	N	N	The best version available.	As far as I can tell, this is the best and most accurate translation of Sun-tzu's brilliant writings. Sawyer does a great job providing you with a great deal of background information and a ton of footnotes for clarity.<br /><br />While Sawyer admits to some conjecture (even on Sun-tzu's very existance), he provides thought provoking evidence for his positions.<br /><br /> Sun-tzu was a military genius and his lessons can be applied in the modern world without question.  Get it and live it, 'cause it's a war out there.	1997-06-23
US	53007978	R39MXFLG4NTA8	0316160695	269592996	Stevie Ray Vaughan: Caught in the Crossfire	Books	2	3	22	N	N	Depressing book	Seven years after Stevie Ray's tragic death I was able to bring myself to finally pick up a biography to read something about his life.  Unfortunately, this book was the one I found and bought.  It is very average, but then again I didn't have very high expectations of these two writers.<br />The information presented is very poorly structured and leaves a lot to be desired. The authors tend to flashback very often and in unnatural places that make the flow very uneven and annoying.<br />I had more questions after reading this book than before I read it.  I wouldn't buy this one.  Just wait for an authorized biography to come out	1997-06-02
