US	53017671	R3T0LK4HCXOFE4	1400050219	164626155	Sleeping with the Devil: How Washington Sold Our Soul for Saudi Crude	Books	2	42	52	N	N	Built on shaky facts	I haven't finished the book, and I am not sure I will.  Since my own background is energy I have some knowledge of the topics being discussed, although I would hasten to add that the Middle East is not my area of interest.<br />What worries me is that where he states a fact on a subject in which I have knowledge, the book either presents a simplistic, and sometimes misleading, version of the fact.  Or, in some cases, the book is just plain wrong.  This worries me for two reasons: it undermines the credibility of the rest of the book, and it makes me wonder what is the level of professionalism in general in the CIA.<br />I also find these blacked-out lines in the book to be ludicrous.  I can find no explanation for them in the book (it may be there, I just have not found it) and they are silly in any case.  The implication, of course, is that someone (CIA?) censored the information and the author is making a silent protest.  But why?  He does say the book went through a CIA review process to protect national security, so we know the book is sanitized.  Why belate the point?<br />I find that the writing style is mostly a rant.  The author's personal agenda seems to be anger at those who have made money in the Middle East.  Fair enough, but I think we all know that life is unfair.  He seems to have a particular grudge against former president George Bush, possibly stemming from Bush's term as Director of CIA.  But the attacks are tedious.  Since my confidence in his fact base has been shaken, my belief in his rants is suffering.<br />The fact that Saudi Arabia is a backward, tyrannical, repressive place is not news.  The fact that certain Saudis have a lot of money is not news.  The fact that we rely excessively on them for an essential commodity for our national well-being is not news.  What could be news is the changing dynamic in the country.  Analysis of that in the book is useful.  If I were more comfortable with the author's objectivity and facts, I would have ahigher regard for the book.	2003-08-11
US	53017671	R2F70OU436HSBX	0399148701	17508097	Red Rabbit	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Colossal Failure	Regrettable, an author that I very much admired in the past is self-destructing.  Red Rabbit is lugibrious, pious, and pedantic. I find his philosophical passages boring and trite.  A number of small errors make one wonder about whether or not his famous attention to detail has failed him.  If the book were interesting, or exciting, or imaginative, one could forgive the errors.  But given the sad state of the book, they just make it worse.<br />Worse, he takes a very interesting story and trivializes it.  In fact, the Pope did have a lot to do with bringing down the \\"Evil Empire.\\" The untold (and only surmised) story of how the US, embargoing Poland on one hand during martial law, was pouring millions in through the Catholic Church to support Solidarity, leading to the roundtable talks and the demise of the Communist Party in Poland.  Now THERE is a story.  Someone, someday, will do the reseach to truly document that story, and that will be a best seller.  Red Rabbit is a poor imitation, not worth reading, even if someone gives you the book.  Don't bother.	2002-10-12
US	53017671	R1WH2HH1TKI9CK	0399147837	991985349	Shadow Warriors: Inside the Special Forces (Study in Command)	Books	1	2	3	N	N	Neither fish nor fowl	This was the worst Clancy work that I have read yet.  The book cannot make up its mind, is it a study about Special Forces and how they evolved, or is it a book about an American general who may or may not be compelling enough to justify a biography?<br />The book does justice to neither the factual stuff about Special Forces nor the accomplishments of General Stiner.  Most of the vignettes related about his life seemed forced and trivial to me.  I kept asking myself, &quot;why am I reading about this guy; why should I read about this guy?&quot;  Had I served under him, or with him, the answer might have been more positive, but since I never served in the Army (I was in the Navy), I knew nothing about him to start with, and saw little reason as the book progressed to change that.  I am not saying that he wasn't a good general and leader of men.  I am sure he was, but there has to be more to it than that to make a biography interesting.<br />In conclusion, the book wanders without focus.  When I finished it, I felt little elation or ilucidation for having done so, only relief that I had gotten through it.<br />Like the shoemaker who should &quot;stick to his last,&quot; Clancy should revisit what made him famous and successful.  He should go back to what has been solid ground for him and try to carry on.  This book was not worth the effort for him to write, or me to read.  Sorry.	2002-05-04
US	53017671	R1CVRYG8ZWBQ1M	0871137380	189891237	Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Excellent and well-balanced	I read the book, then saw the movie, and liked them both, if 'like' is a word for such punishment.  But, the book does not set out to provide escapist fare, nor to amuse.  The book is stark and balanced.  I raises far more questions than it answers, and they are questions we need to ponder.<br />This is not the book for those who are hooked on superheroes that never get hurt.  This book hurts.<br />But anyone who is willing to think a little about what it means to put lives on the line should read this book.  It justly deserves all the praise it has received.	2002-05-04
US	53017671	R2MK3DIGVIRFDN	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A Lost Friend	There is not much I can say about this book.  The book speaks far better for itself than ever I could hope to. I congratulate the author on exhaustive research, and brilliant compilation.<br />John and Abigail Adams came alive for me in reading this book.  The author's love and admiration for them, and what they did for all of us, comes through on every page.<br />At the end of the book, with cannons firing on the Fourth of July, 1826, I felt I lost a good friend and a companion over a difficult and fascinating journey.<br />This book is a must read, especially for those who, in our present moment of national stress, might wish to cast aside some of the civil liberties and freedoms that John Adams and his generation risked so much to leave us.  The courageous stand of President Adams against rushing into war against the French sets an example for all presidents to emulate.  (I am not against fighting a war when we have to, but it is wise to pick your fights carefully.)	2001-11-22
US	53017671	R12E6GI6ZIPFTN	0312286910	930385819	The Veteran	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Perfection	The blurb on the dust cover calls it a &quot;tour de force.&quot; Understatement.  I thought that the art of the short story was dead and forgotten.  But no one since Hemingway has written short stories like this.  Words cannot do justice to the words found in The Veteran.  Simply the best.  Read it and join me in wishing there was more to read.	2001-09-15
US	53017671	R3QTHBX8SZ7N01	0312253419	88732746	America: A Jake Grafton Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Great plot, disappointing finish	This is a good book, and should make an great movie.  The author proceeds the book with a proper disclaimer about technology, so the reader is warned ahead of time not to take it too literally.  The writing is clear; Coonts is a very good writer. Some of his scenes are so realistic that when you put the book down, you are suprised at being safely back at home, not in the chaos that he creates in Washington and New York City.  The plot, essentially a runaway hacker combined with a Star Wars scenario gone bad, starts out extremely well.  The US' latest submarine and a guided missile, in apparently unrelated events, are stolen.  The plot is developed in an interesting way.<br />The shortcomings of the book for me were the selection of heros and the way he closes out the story.  The characters are a little too much like plastic soldiers off the shelf.  The biggest disappointment was the climax.  The final situation is so patently unrealistic that I found myself sitting there thinking, &quot;why is he ruining a good story with this silly final act?&quot;  It simply defies credibility that the US government, no matter how goofy the situation, would ever rely on a Marine Corps general and his wife, a two-star admiral (the hero of the book) and his wife, to sally forth into a virtual combat situation, thinly disguised with paste-on mustaches and Virginia Beach attire, to save the Nation.  It is, regrettably, almost as if Coonts decided to create a comic, Chevy Chase-goes-to-war, ending to the book.  Too bad.<br />For the movie, I suggest a better ending.  And don't count on the Europeans liking the movie at all; too close to the truth there.  (Some of Coonts' geopolitical analyses, uttered by a Russian intelligence officer, are right on the mark and frightening in their implications.)<br />By all means, if you like &quot;Red October&quot; you will like &quot;America.&quot; Red October still sets the standard, which neither Clancy in subsequent works nor Coonts in this one,have equalled.  I enjoyed &quot;America&quot; and look forward to the movie.	2001-09-09
US	53017671	R203O1UVSOOZKK	0375405445	406271874	Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation	Books	5	15	19	N	N	An important window on an important revolution	The &quot;Founding Brothers&quot; is an excellent book, a MUST read for anyone with an interest in that period of American history. Essentially, Ellis ends up focusing the book on the John Adams - Thomas Jefferson relationship, which is revealing and fascinating. I especially enjoyed the material devoted to their retrospective writings following their reconciliation. The whole book, to me, was worth it with the remarkable insight by Adams (page 216): &quot;It was patched and piebald policy then, as it is now, and ever was, and ever will be, world without end.&quot; For anyone who is participating somehow in the transition efforts of the newly democratic countries of Central and Eastern Europe, this is a quotation that should be set in marble over the portal of every parliament in the region; and embossed on the notebooks of every foreign advisor.<BR>If I had to criticize the book, I might criticize the extensive focus on those two at the expense of more depth on others. But, I will not, because Ellis kept the book short and focused. Of course, there are other interesting investigations in the book, such as the Hamilton-Burr duel, and what it meant, and a good look at the role of Madison. But, the real core of the book is a wonderful exploration of the Adams-Jefferson relationship over a period of 50 years, and the drama of their almost simultaneous passing. Ellis seems to admire Adams greatly, with all his faults, but the book is not an apology for Adams. But, I think Ellis would be happy for the reader to come away with a new admiration of the contributions made by John Adams.<BR>And to Jacques Barzun, who seems to play down the American Revolution as a turning point in European history (play down, not put down), I say read this book. The American Revolution was every bit as much of a philosophical change as any of the others, maybe more, and (after a long period) is making a major change (painfully) in the way Europe is governed. It was not simply a war of independence. To those who are puzzled by this reference, please read &quot;From Dawn to Decadence&quot; by Jacques Barzun. Well worth it.	2001-08-30
US	53017671	R2MMCMQPTJRW6W	0595140661	888800239	Global Warming in a Politically Correct Climate: How Truth Became Controversial	Books	4	33	43	N	N	Excellent Uncovering of a Scam	THe only reason that I give this book four stars instead of five is that it could have been more tightly written.  But, the book is lucid and informative.<br />What gives the book credibility for me is the righteous indignation it seems to have aroused from the reviewer from the Netherlands, who refuses to identify himself (other than claiming to be a major scientist) and fits Mathiesen's descrition of the genre perfectly; full of wide ranging claims to worldwide acceptance by credible scientists, except of course those who Mathiesen has cited in his book who the reviewer dismisses as lunatic fringe.<br />This book should certainly be read by anyone in a government policy making position.  Before billions (pounds, roubles, dollars, even French Francs) of taxpayers' monies are spent on CO2 reduction, we taxpayers have the right to ask &quot;are we getting what we are paying for?&quot; Mathiesen's book starts a healthy dialogue: that is worth it all by itself.	2001-04-09
US	53017671	R1NZGKR8BDPJ0R	0399147012	743933431	Edge of Danger	Books	1	2	2	N	N	The Worst Yet	I agree with Gingrich, the Eagle Has Landed was one of the best books I have read by this or any other author in  the genre.  It is, perhaps, why I have read many of his other books, with varying degrees of pleasure.<br />This book, &quot;Edge of Danger,&quot; is not one of Jack Higgins' best efforts.  I have enjoyed his books before, and admired his plots.  In this book, the plot has potential, although is presented in a thin and stereotyped way.  But the story and its telling let the plot down.  The plot never gets developed in a believable way, or even at all.  The dialogue is mostly obvious, inane, and unimaginative.  The characters are cardboard replicas of what they could have been.  I get the impression that a book, riding on the superb reputation of the author, was slapped together in the hopes of eliciting a lucrative movie rights deal.  Since the story gets substantially rewritten when made into a movie, why bother with creating interesting characters or putting much effort into the book itself?  The money is in the movie.<br />I also find the story somewhat insulting.  The Russians and the Americans (oil companies) have conspired together to drill oil wells all over the desert.  Some political correctness here, Greens and Friends of the Earth to the rescue!  Everyone sits calmly by while the locals (some sort of Arab tribe) skin alive some poor throw-away British Army junior officer.  But the hardened heros take it all in stride.  Business as usual for the tough guys.  Plastic scene. And, there are others.<br />The final scene, the climax of the plot, is a total flop, written it seems, out of boredom with the story, just to get it over.<br />I am left with the nagging question: did Jack Higgins really write this terrible book himself, or did he hire someone to do it for him?  At least with Mozart's Requiem we are left with a great piece of music and a mystery about who wrote it.  In this case, we only have the mystery.	2001-03-25
US	53017671	R2MPRH1JP9SHQ6	0525945636	356134546	Code to Zero	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great but ignore the anachronisms	This is a book that I thoroughly enjoyed.  I think it was written with a movie in mind, and the movie should be a good one.<br />The basic plot, the amnesia of the protagonist, is a creative tool that makes the story all that more engrossing.  The ending is a little too neat for my mind.  Inconvenient marriages and antagonists get disposed of with un-lifelike ease and simplicity.  The happy ending is all too happy to be realistic.  But, getting there has been interesting.<br />I am a bit surprised by the anachronisms of the book.  Repeated use of a Xerox machine, yet to be introduced to the market (and perhaps not even invented yet, but I am not sure of that) is casually mentioned.  Any reader who remembers the 1950s and worked in engineering will remember, not fondly, the mimeograph machine and the ammonia smell of drawings being reproduced.  Not Haloid Corporation to ease one's pains; just yet.<br />More to the point than that, however, is the dialogue.  Teen slang of the 1990s (this &quot;sucks&quot;) was certainly not in use then, and the writer should not use it if he expects the text to have a ring of authenticity to it.  I think that the author got a few cars mixed up then, as well.  And, Corvette convertibles in the 1950s, as far as I can recollect, were not air-conditioned.  Why be picky?  The author thanks a professional writers' research organization at the end of the book for their support.  For sure, they should know better.<br />But, all in all, it's a good book.  A tale well designed to take advantage of a moment in history shrouded in a bit of mystery.<br />What are authors going to do when people forget the Cold War?  The Black Hats, and the White Hats, got trashed with the Berlin Wall's demise.  I wait with eager anticipation the next generation of techno-thrillers.  It's about time.	2001-03-04
US	53017671	R1V8YWAM7WVDEC	0061013412	821841049	Orchid Beach (Holly Barker Novels)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Starts strong, finishes weak	I read Orchid Beach at one sitting, so to say it is a well-written and spell-binding is an understatement.  The problem with the book is believeability.  The characters are cardboard, and the plot gets worse as the book proceeds to its conclusion. I get the impression that the author used up all his imagination setting up the story; the stage is well set.  But, then the characters walk on, say their lines, and act out their parts.  All the time, I found myself thinking, &quot;this is a fascinating setup, he's got to be doing something interesting with it.&quot;  And then, he doesn't.  The ending is senseless.  I finished the book with the idea that it had been written with the movie in mind, and a movie that is long on stunts and &quot;flash-bangs&quot; and short on anything else.  Too bad. If you buy the book as an airport reader, you will likely miss your flight, and then be doubly disappointed!	2001-03-04
US	53017671	R2GRWAPGVHUYAV	0679764437	113906857	The Private Life of Chairman Mao	Books	4	79	85	N	N	Thoroughly Engaging Book	The book is highly readable, and is crammed with enough facts to make it believable.  I understand that some people have challenged Dr. Li's claim to have been as close to Mao as he indicates in the book.  One must either read the book and accept his claim, or deny it entirely.  There is no  middle ground.<br />The book presents a picture of Chairman Mao Zedung and of  China very different than one would remember from living through the era.   Perhaps most interesting (did our government intelligence services have any  idea of this?) is the degree to which Mao seemed to admire the United  States, while all the time doing everything he could to antagonize it.  But  this was typical of the man Dr. Li paints, a man full of  contradictions.<br />One episode in the book (I won't spoil it) that is  absolutely fascinating is Mao's reaction to three requests Krushchev made  of Mao in 1958.  Mao's reaction to Krushchev (defiance and rudeness) even  so early on was not something I think we knew much about, and is  interesting, indeed.<br />The book really tantalized me with one big  unanswered question.  Li portrays Mao as a virtual recluse, lolling around  his various bedrooms, never having an office or any kind of work schedule.   He seems to have successfully avoided any responsibility for government  activity, and in fact spent most of his time in power back stabbing those  he put into positions of government.<br />But Dr. Li leaves half the story  untold: how did Mao manage to stay in power while being so reclusive?  Dr.  Li does not speculate about what Mao did when he wasn't with him, so he  does not even address this question.<br />Somehow, and it would be interesting  to read how, Mao managed to retain the ability to &quot;hire and fire&quot;  prime ministers, ministers, generals, governors, and everyone else from  behind the scenes.  The Cultural Revolution could have easily gotten out of  hand, yet it didn't.  Any of the prime ministers who he purged, recalled  andpurged again (like Deng Xiaoping) could have, and one thinks would  have, rebelled against Mao, arrested him, and sent him off to hard labor or  worse.  But, it didn't happen, even when Mao was very sick and almost  totally incapacitated.<br />The picture of Mao is of a cruel, totally inwardly  focused, selfish, controlling person who could charm anyone straight into  an inferno.  What Mao really believed is opened to question in the book,  although much of his thinking comes through in Dr. Li's reporting of his  discussions.  On one hand Mao was a simple peasant; on the other he seemed  to have an incredibly complex grasp of Chinese history and of human nature.   His lack of grasp of economics resulted in the starvation of tens of  millions of Chinese people, about which Dr. Li indicates Mao didn't care a  whit.<br />When I finished the book I had this feeling that I was leaving a  friend (Dr. Li) with whom I had developed a close relationship.  His style  of writing, his presentation of himself and his thoughts is thoroughly  engaging.  <br />I prefer to accept Dr. Li at his word and have enjoyed my  friendship with him.	2000-04-03
US	53017671	RFIM13DJWHAR	0446520659	210194816	The Lion's Game	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Mostly enthralling, sometimes tedious	I loved the book.  I found it often spell-binding and exciting.  The New York City police department versus Feds humor was great.  I really found myself laughing out loud (to the distress of others) at some of the jokes  and scenes.<br />From time to time the book gets preachy.  That could be cut  out; let the characters'actions speak for themselves.  <br />But, to anyone  looking for an amusing, interesting and absorbing book: buy it and read it.	2000-03-17
US	53017671	R3TH5VRFVTJXOU	0786705108	937039882	Faust's Metropolis: A History of Berlin	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Readable, useful, challenging history.	When the book arrived in the mail I despaired at the size.  When I started reading, I forgot the size.<br />Ms. Richie has done what very few serious authors try to do: produce something of serious intellectual intent while  making it readable and absorbing.  Her style is &quot;reader friendly&quot;  I find.<br />She has looked at the social, economic and artistic history of  Berlin from its first days as a village in a way that not only adds to our  knowledge of the city, but also enlightens about the area in general.  Her  comments about German mentality and sense of self are often brutal and  incisive.  She gets away with this by being fair and involved.  Her  admiration for the land of her ancestors is obvious but not blind.<br />I  could pick few arguments with her in areas where I had some knowledge,  although I thought she was a little harsh on Eisenhower.<br />But, overall, I  have no complaints.  This book is a real addition to the literature about  the area and will eventually find its way into college and other serious  curricula about the history of Central Europe.<br />Congratulations to the  author!	2000-03-17
US	53017671	R2JH2DRYBNPW0R	0140188479	738503075	Black Lamb and Grey Falcon: A Journey Through Yugoslavia (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	26	32	N	N	Long and difficult, but worth it	I have read the book, and the reviews to date.  I agree that the book was too wordy.  West seems to indulge all too much in stream of conscious writing.  A good editor would have helped to focus the book more.  It  combines a travelogue with history, a dangerous combination as it becomes  all too easy to lose historical continuity: her thoughts are prompted by  what she sees, and thus she wanders back and forth through regional history  in a way that confused me.  But, the insights, I think, were very  interesting. But beware: she has terrible prejudices that would be totally  non-PC in a writer today: her views on Germans, Austrians, Russians, and  homosexuals are probably unsustainable.  She tends to oversimplify Jews and  their views(other reviewers mentioning Constantine missed the complication:  he was Jewish with an almost Nazi wife).  <br />To those who say her book  tends to explain modern Kosovo and KLA actions, I say no.  I think there is  a very important piece of post WW2 history that I do not understand, but I  know is there, that also has a very big impact.  The whole answer is not  there as far as I can see.<br />It took a very long time for me to get through  the book, simply its length and somewhat distracting habit of going off on  tangents tended to exhaust me.<br />But, for what it is, I think it deserves  the accolades and should be read by anyone with an interest in European or  Balkan or religious history.	2000-01-01
US	53017671	R2HR032QCVUK9W	0312212151	694554321	Collision and Collusion: The Strange Case of Western Age to Eastern Europe, 1990-1997	Books	3	3	4	N	N	An excellent, serious overview of the aid problems	Living and working in Poland throughout the period described in the book, I was painfully, and directly, aware of the failures of US aid (and USAID) in both its objectives and its results.<br />This book is not sensational,  investigative journalism.  It is a serious attempt to analyse what went  wrong and why.  In order to establish, however, that things indeed did go  wrong, the author has named names and taken numbers.  <br />On the negative  side, I think the book tends to intellectualize human failures of ego and  greed too much.  At times the reading is heavy going, and difficult to  follow.  Unless one had been involved in the transition to democracy in  Central Europe, much of what the book says would seem obtuse and distant.   Being there helps fill in the blanks.<br />The chief complaint of the book  (that in giving aid to governments, the US took sides amongst political  contestants that it should have remained neutral about) is not without  merit.  But I think Ms. Wedel could have been been a little more  constructive in examining alternative courses of action.  It seems to me  that any aid program has the effect of benefitting the encumbent.  Perhaps  she raises the question, hoping to precipitate debate as to the answer.  If  so, I agree with the approach.<br />I congratulate the author on a brilliant  display of facts regarding Russia, and hope that the elucidation of these  facts will result in some of the participants being taken to task.  Hope  springs eternal!	1999-03-21
US	53017671	RFJZZ0ZX7Q46Q	0385493800	934400771	The Testament	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Good Book, an Author Growing.	In some ways, Testament seems the most thoughtful and sincere of Grisham's books that I have read.  In the second half of the book some very deep seated beliefs seem to emerge, taking on an almost mystical quality towards  the end.<br />It is clear that the author was captivated by Brazil.  His  description of the journey into the wilderness is beautifully done, and  captivates the reader with its detailed descriptions.  I did not find them  tedious or unecessary, but rather added to the flavor of the book.  He took  us there.<br />In summary, Grisham seems to be growing as a writer; growing  away from the interesting and absorbing, but nonetheless vapid, genre of  &quot;good airport reading&quot; into a novelist with something to say.  I  say, read the book, and stay tuned.	1999-03-07
US	53017671	R2MT3GKTWW9VZT	0399143904	626650351	Rainbow Six	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Terrible, in one word, Terrible	I fear for Tom Clancy's future as a writer.  This novel is terrible.   Three weeks on the New York Times' best selling fiction list is a tribute  to the loyal following that Clancy has developed, me included.  But, this  book squanders that asset and insults the reader.<br />The book is overly  long.  Where was the editor? The same lugubrious pontifications are  nauseatingly repeated over and over again.  I found myself skimming over  numerous paragraphs, finding them uninteresting, repetitive, and off the  point.<br />Except for the fact that I suspect Clancy is hoping for a Bruce  Willis shoot 'em up to evolve from this one ton tome, the preliminary  terrorist scenes are really off the point and a waste of plot time.  Two  paragraphs could set that stage.<br />It is also clear from this book that  Clancy has a thing about environmentalists.  One can imagine that the basic  hypothesis of this book came out of a dinner party argument that Clancy had  with some environmental activist (&quot;limousine liberal&quot;), probably  a woman who is the role model for the Presidential Science Advisor in the  book, and this is his payback.<br />After reading this book, (yes I did read  the whole book), I will think three times before I buy the next Clancy  opus.  He's come a long way (down) from &quot;Red October&quot; which is  one of the best of the genre.	1998-09-13
US	53017671	RL6TXXXPJOZ3T	0060183691	674365631	Swimming to Catalina: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Very good Mystery	I found the story a bit laborious but generally a good read.  Stone's  &quot;escape scene&quot; defies reader credibility.  Perhaps the author  could have thought of a slightly more plausible set of circumstances that  would have been no less credible.  After all, this is not a Superman  episode, but a simple lawyer (&quot;How do you describe a lawyer dead on  the ocean floor?&quot;) who does complicated things.<br />Having spent some of  my teenage years in and around the area of this novel I can relate very  well to the scene painted here.  I think it is very well done indeed.  But,  I think it's not as good as &quot;Dead in the Water.&quot;<br />This is a good  book to take on a business trip: not too cumbersome, not too taxing, and  absorbing when you need to be absorbed (like when waiting for a plane  connection).	1998-09-13
US	53017671	RR0JFJAB7WBBR	0060183683	802931571	Dead in the Water: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good spell binder, a shade predictable	The book is a great light read.  The plot, the characters, and the locale  of the book are believable, although perhaps a bit thinner than they could  be. The book sort of makes a moral point, but then disappoints.  The plot  turned out a little different than I thought it would, but a more ingenious  twisting at the end would have been fun. All through the book keeps your  attention, but the climax of the book (the final courtroom and jail scenes)  were great. Go ahead and indulge yourself.  The author makes a half-baked  apology in a note at the end for the explicit nature of some bedroom  scenes.  But, not to worry, newspaper coverage of Clinton is more explicit.	1998-08-24
US	53017671	RNJSHMAR5ROUK	1575663023	567258865	Ulterior Motive	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Excellent book	Mr. Oran is a very imaginative man, and is the hands (I presume) of some very creative marketing folks.  First, I get an email from &quot;him&quot; asking me politely to buy and read his book.  I did, and I have no regrets.<br />The book is a very smoothly written mystery, although I think the plot just a little obvious.  The hero is a little thinly described.<br />But, let me not dissuade anyone from reading this book.  I think Mr. Oran is to be complimented on a fine first effort, and I look forward to his next.	1998-07-26
US	53017671	R3HAS9JUMB7FXE	0446604763	659665709	Mayday	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Most Enjoyable Tale	I never have given a ten, so nine from me is tops. I read this book as an ex Navy officer, and private pilot, but not ex Navy pilot.  The tale is very well written.<br />I only picked up one piece of trivial inaccuracy, but one any Navy guy should see.  The flag never flies from the stern when the ship is underway.  The suicide scene plays up the flag, but it would not have been on the fantail of the carrier.<br />It was also a comment on the fall in morale in the services in general, which is a bit out of date, but was accurate at the time of first writing.  I hope that the moral fibre of the US Navy is better today than is portrayed in the book.  But, asa warning, it is still valid.  The same comment applies to corporate morality which is portrayed at an all time low.  Probably still a valid comment.<br />Great book, even for airport reading!	1998-05-23
US	53017671	RCVYOSVVCFEY0	0805204601	404907030	Notes from the Warsaw Ghetto	Books	5	46	47	N	N	A must read for anyone interested in the subject	I &quot;never&quot; give a ten.  But out of respect, this gets a ten.  The author was executed by the Nazis after the Ghetto Uprising.  The Notes were hidden, later found, and were assembled into a book.<br />Not only is this book invaluable as a source of historic perspective, it is a spellbinding book to read.  I especially recommend this book to those non-Jews, like myself, whose understanding and respect for what happened needed some growth.<br />All the more erie, I read this book while walking the streets where it happened.  You cannot help but be deeply moved by this book, its story, and its people.<br />I urge anyone with the slightest interest to push Amazon to get it for you.  I have bought two copies, it takes time, but they can do it.  It is worth the effort.	1998-05-23
US	53017671	R37P6FZQFOK9D0	0553241605	794174842	Mila 18	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Strong on fiction, weak on facts	I have given the book a 7 based on a combined rating of 9 for sheer readability and pleasure, but a 5 for historic accuracy and attention to detail.  First, about the 9.  The book is a most enjoyable one to read.  It will capture the reader from the first moment.  From this standpoint, I recommend the book highly.<br />But, I have problems with the author's cavalier way of mixing fact with fiction, opinion, and bias.  Comparing Mila 18 to &quot;Poland&quot; by Mitchener (just an example), Mitchener heavily annotates his historical novel with chapter notes which  separate the fact from the fiction.  That is most helpful for someone who wishes to keep historic facts clearly in mind.<br />The main complaint I have is the somewhat questionable characterization of the relationship between the Polish Jews and the non-Jewish Polish population.  <br />I am not suggesting that there was not serious discrimination at work.  There was.  But extending this to an anatogism between ghetto resistance efforts and the Polish Home Army is, I believe going to far and defiles the memory of many who made sincere efforts to deal as responsible human beings (on both sides of the Jewish - Christian divide).<br />Mila 18 suggests that the Polish underground army was antagonistic and openly anti-Semitic to the point of refusing much help and stealing money.  He portrays the commander of the Home Army (presumably Bor-Kormorowski) as an effete snob who had no use for the chief protagonist of Mila 18.  As a matter of historic fact, Bor-Komorowski had been the commander of the Polish cavalry unit  that the book's protagonist (Andrei) was also an officer of. They would have known each other.  <br />In fact, it would seem that Polish underground people went to considerable personal risk to get the stories of atrocities out of Poland to the government in London.  Bor-Kormorowski evinces anger over the initial refusal of the BBC to tell these stories of what was going on in places like Auschwitz andin the Warsaw Ghetto (as well as stories of the ! horrors being perpetrated by the &quot;ally,&quot; Stalin).<br />For another slant on this story, I refer any reader to &quot;The Secret Army&quot; by Bor-Kormorowski.  Some of the ghetto fighting scenes described in Mila 18 conform in detail to those reported in the Secret Army.  <br />Uris protrays civilian life outside the ghetto wall in Warsaw as close to &quot;normal.&quot; Other histories tell stories of quite a different nature, albeit that life inside the ghetto was far, far worse.  But life outside it was not normal.  The occupying Nazis had successfully driven a wedge into Polish society by the imposition of terror in the camps, in the ghetto, and in civilian society in general.   Uris seems to discount the possibility that non Jewish Warsaw civilians and resistance people alike could not help much because it was well beyond their capability to do so.  Reading between the lines in The Secret Army, I get the impression that Bor-Kormorowski regrets not having been able to do more for people he seemed to hold in genuine respect.<br />Finally, I think that Uris also soils the memory of Emmanuel Ringelblum, the diarist of the Warsaw Ghetto upon whom I presume he models the structure of Mila 18 (it is built around diary entries).  He does not mention Ringelblum in the dedication to the book, nor does his name appear anywhere in the book.  Although I recognize that Ringelblum came under considerable criticism within certain Jewish schools of thought after the War, and is considered a &quot;controversial&quot; figure (because he did not advocate more resistance earlier), I think Ringelblum is much to be admired.  The question of passivity is a theme addressed obliquely in Mila 18, and is a topic of some soul searching by Ringelblum as well (he was executed well after  the ghetto uprising had been put down).  My own view is that Uris should have paid Ringelblum some tribute for his contributions to Mila 18, a bookthat largely paraphrases the Ringelblum &quot;Notes from the Warsaw Ghetto.&quot;<br />That's why I give!  Mila 18 a 5 on historic accuracy.	1998-05-19
US	53017671	R39L1A2QKLHAYV	080504681X	510058680	Saratoga: Turning Point of America's Revolutionary War	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent reading with sound content	I recommend this book to anyone who, like me, is a little shy of information on the atmosphere and circumstances of the American Revolutionary War.  Perhaps the most useful contribution for me was the portrayal of the participants (Colonials, English, and Germans) and their attitudes to the whole war.  Like many things, it was not as clear cut as our school history books have presented it.  Even if you are looking for nothing more than a good read, this is a good book.  The biliography is long and detailed and demonstrates a solid fact base.  CONGRATUATIONS to the author for a great book!	1998-04-26
US	53017671	R7L41KHAP5YAD	0787113581	543272644	The President's Daughter	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Mediocre Potboiler, alas!	Higgins is an excellent writer, and as a tale, The  President's Daughter reads fast.  But it is not up to the standard one has come to think of as good, innovative Higgins stuff.  He uses the same characters from earlier books, and weaves them into the story in the most artificial, forced way. Consequently, one who has read some of the earlier books, especially those with an IRA theme, will find oneself wondering what a world of coincidence we live in!  But, the characters are thin and don't ring true to me.  The story is a bit amateurish, coming from a pro like Higgins. And, I think his portrayal of the Israelis, although perhaps justified in some ways, is half hearted criticism.  If he does not like Israeli policy towards the Arabs, and evidently he doesn't, then let him come out more frankly and more precisely.  Sorry Jack, but this one is clearly a pot boiler.  I hope your next one is a lot better.	1998-04-17
