US	53013507	RMRQ8Q7BGVERE	0300092946	542945006	Painting the Word: Christian Pictures and Their Meanings	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A much needed visual rhetoric on Christian Themes	Reasoned analysis involves dissection of statements and dissection of images. The dissection is needed to detect evidence or to expose the lack thereof. The reason analysis of images is needed is that all of the images are not natural. They are iconic based on conventions (like language) and therefore Christian images are signs. The discipline to investigate them is not the neuropsychology of perception but semiotics, the science of signs. Here we have an excellent semiotic rhetoric of Christian images informing us of the meaning of the signs and the meaning behind the images given to us by an expert in both religion (John Drury is a priest) and in the history of art. The cross, the scourging pillar, the spear and the sponge on a cane -all these have meaning. Particularly interesting was Chapter three with the dissection of the different presentations of the annunciation by Duccio as compared to Lippi and Poussin and the biblical quotes that supported each artist's view of what happened and how it happened.	2005-10-10
US	53013507	RW19CENW4J746	0743244516	663516219	The Battle of Salamis: The Naval Encounter that Saved Greece -- and Western Civilization	Books	5	10	14	N	Y	Not a good book - A GREAT BOOK!	Salamis is a Greek word derived from the Phoenician sh l m meaning peace. And yet off this island the greatest naval battle of the ancient world took place in 480 BC. Those of you of a certain age may remember a TV program titled \\"You are there.\\" It usually started with a short introduction: \\"The Battle of Salamis, where Greeks and Persians battle for the control of the commerce of the known world. It was a day that altered and illuminated our time - AND YOU ARE THERE!\\" This book is like that. It takes you there. I felt that I was eyewitness and even participating in the battle plans, the debates, and the ultimate confrontation wherein Xerxes, the King of Kings was defeated. How it happened is almost beyond belief. The Greeks were outnumbered in men and ships and yet they won by using wit and wisdom, knowledge of local geography, logistics, and weather. In vivid living prose, Barry Strauss, a true scholar of this battle and ancient naval arts, tells the story in a book filled with fact, intriguing characters, unusual events, and remarkable compassion for both winners and losers.	2005-08-31
US	53013507	R7OXSELXKT7N7	0131855174	664032382	In the Line of Fire: How to Handle Tough Questions...When It Counts	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A good idea especially if you will be in the line of fire	Aristotle, the master of those who know, defines rhetoric as the art of selecting from the available means of persuasion that which is most likely to be effective. He goes on to tell us that there may be three large topics involved: Reason, Custom, and Character. Reason involves the use of logic, custom devolves on what is expected in a given culture, and character involves influence that is based on the reputation of the speaker. In the Line of Fire considers still another, more modern, area of concern: The Q&A, a type of public discourse not mentioned by Aristotle, but common enough in our times on talk shows, in business, and in politics. The stakes can be high and Jerry Weissman calls on a vast and varied experience to tell us how to handle the tough questions when it counts. So we have in his 185 page book lots of good advice about what to do and what not to do when you are on the hot seat during Q&A. The audience control techniques alone are worth the price of the book: Set time limits, recognize the questioner with the open hand and not by pointing, listen, make sure you get the main point of the question, buffer the negative assertions embedded in a negative question, retake the floor, and respond to the question simply and directly. Once that is done, you may then get to point B (no I am not in this review going to explain this important concept) and from point B thence go to a topspin and a WIIFY. The later is probably much more important than the former as you will see when you digest this book. But as Dante says in his famous poem: \\"If I am to tell about the good, I must also tell about what is not-so-good.\\" Item 1: Too much ego shines through in the introduction, and in the testimonials in praise of the author and his book. When you get that much self praise, you begin to wonder if the author is trying to convince us of something that he himself may not think is entirely true. Who cares that he advised Microsoft and Cisco? Why are we told that fact over five times? I am not Microsoft and I am not Cisco, so why does that apply to me? And why brag about being part of 500 IPOs? Skip the hype and give me my WIIFY and get on with point B. Item 2: The martial arts metaphors don't work; instead they seem silly and strained. Public speaking is an art and not a battle ground because no actual physical fighting takes place. This is an important point made in most college level courses on argument and logic. Argument is not about contention. It is about seeking the truth. And logic is about the truth preserving properties of statements, not about supporting a position arrived at a priori. That is, Logic and Argument are above all methods for arriving at or preserving the truth. They do not aim at defeating another person. One might defeat the other person's argument, but that is a different story from defeating a person in individual combat. Item 3: Cicero used architectural mnemonics in the Roman Senate that were based, not on roman columns, but on frescos, statues, and the impluvium of his own home. We know this from many sources, including the great statesman himself. Item 4: Using Stormin' Norman Schwarzkopf as the role model for great Q&A technique is highly questionable. Norman frowns during the whole session - he should smile, at least a little to show his human (not his war) face; his body posture is too closed - he needs to be more open; he is rude to the reporters, sometimes so rude that he just ignores follow-on questions and sometimes impatiently cuts off the questioner, especially when the questioner is female; he recognizes the questioners by pointing to them with his index finger (a definite no-no according to page 19). Besides, Stormin' Norman has the control. His situation is just the reverse of the usual Q&A where the speaker is beholden to the audience, not vice-versa. By the by, In the line of fire will be more effective if you read it first, then watch the sold separately DVD. The DVD parallels the bookchapter by chapter and gives excellent real life examples of how to manage and how not to manage Q&A.chapter by chapter and gives excellent real life examples of how to manage and how not to manage Q&A.	2005-08-26
US	53013507	R3O0Z1FIJHNBUE	0760706379	527851296	The Only Way to Cross: The Golden Era of the great Atlantic express liners---from the Mauretania to the France and the Queen Elizabeth 2	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Classic in its own time	I devoured this book and you will too. John Maxtone-Graham is one of a kind, a marine historian who is urbane, erudite, and literate. He has written an absorbing book, filled with fun, details, anecdotes, and marine dreams. Here's to Big Ships and big dreams - That toast has a kind of 1920's ring to it.  But I loved it. You will too.	2005-08-15
US	53013507	RAOE2KPVT0ZIT	0140449116	627065254	The Odyssey (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Homer has the right stuff	Pretty good and a classic. I've read it four times and it gets better and better. It's packed with exciting adventure and sufficient love interest (both marital and adulterous). There is a host of interesting characters including Calypso, a great man eater and a Lolita, the teen aged Nausicaa. Homer doesn't spell some things out about what happens with and to these women but I get it now whereas I didn't get it in high school. Events: They blind that one-eyed monster, do drugs (the lotus), and have some rough sailing excitement engineered by angry gods and goddesses. That final scene is in the best tradition of the American Western with fighting and winged death by that powerful bow. It's a page turned and much much better than the Iliad. The tone is calmer, pondered, not ponderous. And then there is the montage, the use of stories within stories and background info embedded in myth and history. Wow! Homer has the right stuff. He's great. But did he really write all of it? My impression is that the last 20 pages are so different in tone and quality that they are not his.	2005-08-13
US	53013507	RUY6SO9GUDRTF	0865714622	396709568	Cruise Ship Blues: The Underside of the Cruise Ship Industry	Books	1	51	65	N	Y	Let him walk the plank - You go read something else	At the end of this diatribe, the author admits that they don't want him back cruising. And I don't blame them. He is just one of those passengers that you can't please no matter what. Is he fussy? Let facts be submitted to a candid world: Quote: \\"On the ultra luxury Radisson Diamond, the same waiters that served my partner and me were also serving a table of senior officers and VIPs. Their mineral water was poured from a bottle wrapped in a white napkin; our mineral water - the same brand (how did he know if theirs was wrapped?) -- was poured without the napkin.\\" Holy cow! Mineral water without a napkin - How dare they! At the same sitting, the author complains of a fish head that has fish eyes staring out at him and, guess what, the fish smells fishy! That's an earthquake! More complaints: The food isn't any better than a three star hotel! (Ever stay at a three star hotel in France? The food is super.) More whines: The VIPs get special treatments and special parties (Shocking!), the music around the pool is too loud, too rap and hard rock, the free wine on board only costs the cruise line only $2, he cracked a tooth and the cruise line wouldn't pay his dental bill until he got a lawyer friend who obtained the money plus \\"a meager compensation.\\" But the thing that bothered me the most was his inconsistency. He berates the industry for alleged mistreatment of their employees and yet he himself seems to cause those employees more trouble that 99% of the other passengers and he can't figure out why those employees, like the bartender on page 157, whom he nagged for several days, hate him so much. He berates the passengers and ships for causing pollution, yet he himself has taken (and presumably will try to take) multiple cruises. The massive improvements in waste management and sanitation and pollution control and fuel efficiency are dismissed as not enough. He nitpicks about occasional oil spills but fails to mention that according to the US Coast Guard 99% of the oil pollution of the seas comes from natural sources, mainly undersea vents. But what's this? The author's website which is billed as a \\"noncommercial site regularly updated with links to reports, investigations, and new developments regarding labor, ship safety, and security\\" is not functioning. The website isn't function just the way this book isn't functioning. The best treatment for the likes of him is to throw him overboard or make him walk the plank. If you want to know about cruising, instead of reading this piece of junk, get a hold of any book by John Maxtone-Graham. His \\"The Only Way to Cross\\" is a classic.pollution of the seas comes from natural sources, mainly undersea vents. But what's this? The author's website which is billed as a \\"noncommercial site regularly updated with links to reports, investigations, and new developments regarding labor, ship safety, and security\\" is not functioning. The website isn't function just the way this book isn't functioning. The best treatment for the likes of him is to throw him overboard or make him walk the plank. If you want to know about cruising, instead of reading this piece of junk, get a hold of any book by John Maxtone-Graham. His \\"The Only Way to Cross\\" is a classic.	2005-08-02
US	53013507	R33EJ504LHVDYN	0670034185	712166019	Devils on the Deep Blue Sea: The Dreams, Schemes and Showdowns That Built America's Cruise-Ship Empires	Books	2	7	15	N	Y	A mistitled business history of the major players in cruising	This is an interesting, complex, and detailed business history of some of the major players in the cruise industry. It is more about the business of cruising and not how to cruise, schmooze, booze, and snooze your way across the ocean blue. The author's anti-cruise business bias comes through not only in the title but in the rest of his book as well. The main defect is partial selection of the evidence. It is possible to prove by partial selection of evidence that cruising is terrible or wonderful. What is needed is a more balanced and more objective appraisal. Cruising has made tremendous progress since I had my first cruise over 50 years ago. Air conditioning, heated pools, better fresher food etc. Those things count, you know,  and have contributed in no small way to the popularity of  cruising. Another evidence of bias: Logical inconsistency. The author feels it's OK for the governments of the Caribbean nations to conspire to fix the port tax and other fees, but it is not OK for the cruise lines to fight that monopolistic anticompetitive practice by withdrawal of their ships. When the French government required Windstar to buy all supplies from France, not only was this anticompetitive and cost ineffective, it was downright inconvenient. Windstar had a right, some say a duty, to take its business elsewhere. To argue that the ships are creating havoc when they arrive and that the locals don't want them there and then to complain about the economic damage when the ships boycott the harbor is just too much. You can't have your cake and eat it. Small points: Typos (company p. 240; sperm wale p. 260 etc.). The section on medical care is just wrong. People aboard ship are better served and faster served than those on shore and over-all the medical environment is healthier on ship than in the average American home. No mention was made of the availability of specialists by telemed and it is simply not true that \\"...even the folksiest country doctor in the United States is board certified.\\" If you don't believe me, check with you local medical society.is board certified.\\" If you don't believe me, check with you local medical society.	2005-08-01
US	53013507	R1KEBO22JA63NP	0691119198	243639418	Uncorked: The Science of Champagne	Books	5	9	11	N	Y	A Good Book about my Favorite Drink	The problem with Champagne, at least for me, is that it tends to disappear too fast. That was also the problem with this book. It reads too fast. Before I knew it the pleasure was behind me. Uncorked starts with the history of this famous drink, including the revelation that Dom Pierre Perignon was originally told by the Pope and other powers to get those lousy bubbles out of the white wine. Then the members of the Royal Court at Versailles under Louis XIV began to appreciate the bubbles. So, after years of fruitless labor trying to get the bubbles out of the wine, at the end of the seventeenth century, Dom was ordered to reverse his efforts and devise methods to increase the bubbling in the wine, which, incidentally, he did. After history, we have a chapter on making Champagne: pretty standard stuff. But if you don't know it yet, learn it here so at the next dinner you can talk with authority. Next comes the most informative chapter: A Flute or Goblet? Which is better? Those of you who know Champagne know the answer. And those of you who don't know Champagne can find the correct answer here. The amazing thing for me is that I knew the answer, but I didn't understand the scientific reasons why flute was better. Science is always right and here we find no exception. The last few chapters then talk in extenso about bubbles and as this is the essence of Chamapgne, the discussion is well worth the effort expended in studying the science of Champagne bubbles and the photographs that illustrate that science. Just as a book has a beginning, a middle, and an end, a bubble has a birth, a rise, and a burst. This book didn't make me want to go out an read more about Champagne, but it did make me want to go out and drink some more and while drinking I shall appreciate the remarkable history and science that goes into this fine drink.	2005-06-22
US	53013507	R2GZX5W7K335F4	0393324826	925418329	Stiff: The Curious Lives of Human Cadavers	Books	5	1	3	N	N	The story is very much alive and not stiff	Mary Roach could have written an intelligent, detailed, authoritative disquisition on death management, but she didn't. That would have been boring. Instead, using narrative techniques more often identified with the modern novel and using a remarkable sense of humor, she gives us a wonderful insight into a world where most of us have never gone. Hers is truely a most unusual book about a most unusual subject - educational and funny.	2005-06-20
US	53013507	R327ZYTKBSGWFR	0385474547	672855451	Things Fall Apart	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Things fall apart / the center will not hold	Thanks Chinua Achebe. Your title reminded me of my favorite poet W.B. Yeats as I recognize that you took your title from \\"The Second Coming.\\" A more complete quote: Things fall apart / the center will not hold / Mere anarchy is loosed upon the world. Your ending came as a surprise and is perfect offering as it does an alternative title for your work, \\"The pacification of the primitive tribes of the lower Niger.\\" What impact that new title has for a political novel! Let me evaluate your book according to an essay by Wallace Stevens \\"Notes for a Supreme Fiction.\\" Stevens claims fiction should provide three things: pleasure, abstraction, and change. The story and the ease of reading your short sentences provided pleasure. The abstract ideas abound and come to the reader like the snows of winter piling up one on another. Or do the ideas blow across the page the way the harmattan blows across West Africa? Through the eyes of Okonkwo I experience and learn about the human condition as reflected in the culture of the (your?) Ibo tribe. Their money is cowries, their drug the kola nut, their religion spiritism, but the humanity remains clear and strong. In fact, their morality exceeds that of the British although that fact is never stated, just shown. The changes are enormous: The major character dies, the tribe breaks up, and the land falls into the hands of the enemy. By these Wallace Stevens standards, I believe you have written a perfect novel - A+.	2005-06-17
US	53013507	R2O0O546TGSHJP	0393035158	2927274	The End of Faith: Religion, Terror, and the Future of Reason	Books	5	13	15	N	Y	The rules of civil discourse must change	There is no reason that reason needs to wear a veil whenever she ventures out in public. The rules of civil discourse must change such that we can intelligently address, as this book does, the important issues of our time. The modern equivalent of the flat earth society has been out there making some absurd decisions about our lives and our future. Unless we stop them soon humanity will be handicapped for quite a while. Sam Harris tells us the way to come out of the closet and argue effectively with the Christian Right who may mean well but who are doing a pretty good job of screwing things up badly. For instance, no rational approach to ethics would have us stop stem cell research. Our present official policy is shaped by beliefs that are divorced from every reasonable understanding of biology. As a neurologist I can assure you that we visit more suffering on a fly by killing it, then we visit on a blastocyst, to say nothing of a zygote. This book is a good place to start to arm yourself against the hooey and baloney that the Bush administration is throwing our way everyday.	2005-06-08
US	53013507	R2J8XXPL4UQC22	1594532397	869999763	The Blood of a Million Christs	Books	5	2	4	N	Y	Post Modern Writing at its very best	First go see the movie, Kingdom of Heaven. Then read this book. Both the book and the movie define and try to deal with the current complex situation in the Middle East, where, once again, Christians are confrounting Muslims. The book is based on the author's experience living in Jerusalem. Having lived there myself, I can vouch that the geography and historical facts are exactly right. The perspective is based on a chapter of fiction alternating with a chapter taken from the New York Times. The effect is that the fiction looms much more interestingly and more convincingly, even as both fact and fiction begin to co-mingle and meld toward the end. Fast, fun, and funny - if you want something really different, try it. Not incidentally, the title refers to a statement made by one of the major characters, Duke Morgan: \\"The blood of a million Christs ain't nothing in this unholy holy land.\\" The book already has a cult following among professors of English and the literati. Why not join in?	2005-05-18
US	53013507	RH87CG8KFLBCB	0446532231	628954405	Dude, Where's My Country?	Books	1	10	26	N	N	A book-like-object not worth reading	Although I consider myself a Democrat true blue, I couldn't get through this book for the reason that I can't stand hysterical narration, outlandish hyperbole, deliberate misreading, false rhetorical questions, baseless hypotheticals, and crimes against logic. Here's what I am driving at: 1. False analogy: Who told the bigger lie? Clinton about his (...) life or Bush about Iraq? Moore channels our thinking into the easy groove. He wants us to say Bush. But wait a second. Clinton did lie. He deliberately lied under oath and has admitted the same. Consequently, his license to practice law has been suspended for five years. Did Bush really lie? That's an open question. Bush would have had to know that Iraq has no weapons of mass destruction and still assert that Iraq did. But how could anyone be sure there are no WMD? Absence of evidence is never evidence of absence. In fact, we still have the receipts for WMD we gave Saddam so the assumption that Saddam still had WMD was not all that unreasonable. More probable is that the President believed and still believes that the WMD were and are there. In the which case, he did not lie. He may have been wrong or deceived himself, but that is a lot different from telling a lie. Hence, the Clinton-Bush analogy about lying breaks down and is false or we must conclude, as Bush did not lie at all, that Clinton, not Bush, told the bigger lie. 2. Contradictory thinking: This presents itself as discussions of how things used to be OK in Iraq, but wrong because we supported a dictator. Now they are not OK in Iraq but still wrong because we disposed the dictator. At the same time, Moore argues the past Bush policy was wrong and the present opposite policy is also wrong. Two contradictory policies can't be both wrong. The argument exposes Moore's bias. 3. Motive Fallacy: This error in thinking is the book's cardinal crime against logic. Because we have uncovered a possible motive for a policy, doesn't not mean the policy is wrong or that the policy was dictated by that motive. For example: If a conservative think tank comes out with a 170 page paper on fixing social security, it does not mean that we can dismiss the paper as of no value unless we have read and studied the paper and its arguments. Based on the supposed motives behind the administrations arguments, Moore repeatedly sets up straw men like this to knock down. It is unfortunate that often this set up is accomplished by innuendo and not by facts.the policy was dictated by that motive. For example: If a conservative think tank comes out with a 170 page paper on fixing social security, it does not mean that we can dismiss the paper as of no value unless we have read and studied the paper and its arguments. Based on the supposed motives behind the administrations arguments, Moore repeatedly sets up straw men like this to knock down. It is unfortunate that often this set up is accomplished by innuendo and not by facts.	2005-05-17
US	53013507	R2D74XW8CKFC9V	0691122946	25166027	On Bullshit	Books	4	11	12	N	Y	Not a bad start	No question about it there is a lot of bullsh*t out there. Much of it comes from advertising, some from public relations, and, more recently, the closely related realm of politics. The trouble is that most of us contribute to the problem and tend to take the situation for granted. Too bad! Reality, that jade, will make us pay, and pay a lot. For that's what happens when we pay more attention to the appearances than to the facts. The classic bullsh*ter needs to be contrained, called on the carpet, and made to repent. Else our civilization is in serious doo-doo. This little book (67 pages)is a good start in alerting us to the problem, but it gives no ready solutions. For solutions we have to look elsewhere. May I suggest: \\"Truth, Knowledge, or Just Plain Bull: A handbook of Practical Logic and clear thinking\\" a book by a neurologist turned logician who tries to get a clear cut handle on not only the problem of Bullsh*t but also the solution.	2005-03-02
US	53013507	R2L2QNYYOIVDYL	027595353X	180758127	When Boxing Was a Jewish Sport	Books	5	5	8	N	Y	Nostalgia Ain't What It used To Be	It's nice to have a book based on authentic research and to have the exact things people said reproduced exactly on the page. When someone says their Mother paid a dime to the iceman to carry up a cube of ice and put it in the icebox, you know that guy was there. When he talks about having to change the drip pan in the mornings else the floor gets wet, there is no doubt about the truth when that same guy talks about fights getting bought (bought=old speak for fixed) or someone taking a dive. That guy was there. Much of the material covers the old New York that I knew and loved as a kid, particularly the Golden Gloves sponsored by the New York Daily News and the great gyms and trainers. But of course I knew the scene from the \\"other side\\", that is, the Irish point of view. Jewish kids wandered into the gyms and got into the fight game for the fun and money. The the Irish kids like myself were sent to the gyms for fisticuff lessons. \\"Stay out of trouble, Mickey and be a gentleman, but if some bully picks on you, just knock his block off.\\" Yep, insulting the Irish was a sure way of getting hurt. With the Jews, it was different. They didn't care about the insults. They just wanted to get the watch or the prize money and get out of the game before they got punch drunk. The chapter on the Main Event is slow and tedious, somewhat repetitious, and needs to be shortened or something. And its hard to believe that 75% of the prostitutes in New York City were Jewish, that 35% of the criminals were Jewish, or that 60% of the lawyers were Jewish. The Jews had their share of prostitutes and criminals and shysters, but not that many. Otherwise, this is a wonderful book for nostalgia, especially the chapters that deal with the Jewish fighters relationship to his Mom and Pop. A trememdous oral history of a now by-gone era - Bravo!	2005-02-22
US	53013507	R1J0LJMWP6DJ16	0312314523	849180846	The Philosophy Gym: 25 Short Adventures in Thinking	Books	5	5	20	N	Y	We need more books like this	Stephen Law, whose reputation in philosophy, especially in England, is enormous, has given us a short, interesting, intelligent book about the major questions of our time and all time: Does God exist? Can a machine think? What is knowledge? Perhaps the most useful chapter is How to Spot Eight Everyday Reasoning Errors. That chapter alone is worth the price of the book. It's good that you will profit from this type of serious reading and it's too bad some high placed officials in the American government won't profit from this kind of serious reading. Of course, the book is meant to stimulate thinking and not give answers. So some things seem overstated and some things are made more controversial than need be, such as why we have no moral right to eat meat. That claim bases itself on the idea that we can remain healthy just eatting vegetables. That is not possible without vitamin supplements. Furthermore, claiming that eatting plants is more moral that eatting animals because animals are a higher form of life is questionable. The encoding DNA for a pine tree for instance is (last time I checked) 40 fold more than for a human. Therefore, a pine tree is a much, much more complicated form of life than a human. A carrot has at least triple the encoding DNA of any animal, a reflection of its more complicated life style. That plants communicate with each other is now known from research done by NASA and the sex lives of plants and their adaptive powers are truly amazing. On strictly moral grounds, I would argue that eatting meat makes more more sense than eatting plants as animals are a lower form of life than plants. One thing is for sure, whether you like it or not, you must eat to live, a fact not discussed by Law. How come we have to eat to live? Some Jains decide that they have no moral right to eat anything. Within a few months, they die. That is the Jain moral choice. But what's so moral about killing yourself?	2005-01-30
US	53013507	RBUH8DAML5HJQ	0385338333	220162579	Lighting Up: How I Stopped Smoking, Drinking, and Everything Else I Loved in Life Except Sex    A Memoir	Books	3	3	9	N	Y	Not much of a novel but probably a reasonable memoire	There's a group out there consisting mainly of men who like to watch women smoke, like to hear them talk about smoking, and like to read about their experiences, trials, pleasures, and problems with cigarettes. These people want to know all the details about what brand, the inhales, exhales, dangles, type of light up, etc. Multiple websites, videos, telephone chats, and even a newspaper are available (for a price, for a price). This book's first 100 pages holds that kind of interest for those kind of people. Along the way we learn all about how she smoked in high school and how she sparked up her Capri Menthols, Virginia Slims, and More lights. Alas, after Shapiro quit and becomes a Nicotine Nazi, she becomes far less interesting and toward the end of the journey a real shrew complaining about all the little pleasures that her friends and relatives are having  drinking, eatting candy, cookies, fatty foods, coffee. Good grief! Do people like her really exist? If so, I would avoid them like the plague. The midplot squeeze is weak and boring and this character Winters (the therapist) makes little sense. He seems perfect in getting the patients to drop their dependencies on everything by transferring the dependency to him (for a price, for a price). Do New York therapists get $175 an hour for handing out this kind of hokum? Yes, they probably do and therefore this book succeeds as a sort of social document of the kind of life some desperately unhappy people do lead. The ennui of the book reflects the ennui of their lives and therefore the book is about the real New York scene. By the by, I don't think Shapiro was truly addicted to anything. She's obscessed with things, but addiction is a whole different kettle of fish according to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual. Because you like to smoke, or drink, or eat certain foods does not mean you are addicted. The overwhelming situation is use of things (including alcohol, tobacco, and even drugs) and not abuse of things.	2005-01-30
US	53013507	R3GNOC33NV7OE4	039332639X	20116327	The Random Walk Guide To Investing	Books	5	17	31	N	Y	A Good Place to Start	This is a good place to start if you want to get in on the action and try to prepare for your financial future. The advice is mainly sound: Start early to take advantage of compounding. Beware of financial advisors for they are mainly interested in theirown financial health and not yours. And for heaven sakes, get rid of that credit card debt. Small economies (a dollar here and a dollar there) mount up. Persistence is more important than insight, savvy, or market timing. A good way to go broke is to purchase those IPO's (Initial Public Offerings) and hold them while the lock up expires. IPO is like taking heroin intravenously. Sure it can be fun for awhile, but it also can lead to death. Oh, yes about those CFA (Chartered Financial Analysts), stock analysts, brokers and other gurus: Forget them for they are more often wrong than right as a detailed retrospective analysis of their predictions clearly shows. The real problem with a book like this is that it is overly general and simple. The advice can't apply to all people at all times. Yes, it might be safe to diversify and rebalance your portfolio. But then again, it might be safer not to do those two things. Bill Gates made money by being concentrated in one stock. George Soros made a billion in one currency (the British Pound) on one bet at one time. When these gentlemen diversified, they didn't do as well. Rebalancing your portfolio each year means you sell the stocks that did well and buy more of the ones that didn't. You could end up with a portfolio of cripples that way. What really counts is owning the right asset at the right time. This book doesn't tell us how to do that. Instead, it suggests we abrogate our individual judgment to market professionals and just buy an index. That results in the usual dilution of experience so characteristic of modern times. It's just like sex with a condom, low nicotine cigarettes, decafe coffee, hot tubs that are luke warm, etc. -- safe alright - but not much fun.	2005-01-30
US	53013507	R3G15QPOXBSJJU	0822958589	928267735	High Water Mark: Prose Poems (Pitt Poetry Series)	Books	5	2	13	N	Y	The answer to 11 across was dunderhead	The two things I didn't like about this book were the title cover that claimed it won some poetry prize and the inside sheet that said publication was supported by a grant by the Pennsylvania Council of the Arts. Why can't poetry exist without prizes and subventions? Why can't it stand on its own two feet? Be its own thing (I almost wrote be its own person)? Truth and beauty succinctly expressed should have not trouble existing independently in this wide world and this marvelous example of beauty and truth should have no trouble either. Every real writer knows how language fails to fully express the things we think and feel. It's like a ship that never quite comes into port, never quite arrives home. And yet, and yet, this collection of great poems comes remarkably close. Bravo! From one world class alcoholic to another: Bravo!	2005-01-20
US	53013507	R2I4WHRGNSHS2U	091868465X	673516803	The Drinking Man's Diet	Books	5	24	27	N	Y	Do you want a treat or a treatment?	Remember that old ad for Camel cigarettes? Do you want a treat or a treatment? Well, do you want a drinking man's diet or a thinking man's diet? Most of us go for the fun and that is why in the diet wars this little book has held up so well. It probably did not start the low carb diet, but it did make it popular until, that is, Dr. A came along. Actually, the low carb diet first appears in history with the advice of a remarkable physician, William Harvey (not the Harvey who discovered the circulation of the blood, but a London physician) who advised a diet which consisted of \\"avoiding starch and saccharine matter\\" -in modern terms LO CARB. The patient lost 50 pounds and so will you. By the by, probably you should check with your doctor if you are not in the pink. And if you are over eatting because of psychological pressure, you don't need a diet, you need a shrink. Lo carb diets may be deficient in certain vitamins, such as Vitamin C and Folic Acid, so supplements are indicated.	2005-01-20
US	53013507	R216WDFLC7IX25	0316346624	226933679	The Tipping Point: How Little Things Can Make a Big Difference	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	No question tipping points exist - so let's learn about them	The idea is to inform us about tipping points. No question that they exist in nature. The freezing point of water, for instance. It's a liquid and then - bingo it's a solid. The boiling point of water - same thing. It's a liguid and then - bingo it's a gas. These tipping points are all over the physical world - critical mass in the atomic bomb, escape velocity in space flight, etc. Gladwell's contribution is to apply analysis to human behavior and inform us about the tipping points that have major effects on the way we live. Why the crime epidemic in New York? And why did it suddenly go away? These are important questions and he trys to answer them. The answers are interesting and important and now part of our popular culture. This book is better written and better researched than \\"Blink\\", which has just been released. As a physician, I found the section on smoking behavior especially interesting. Guilt based moral systems went out in the 12th century explaining why the current anti-smoking campaigns are failing. We need a more enlightened attitude toward smoking and the informed approach in this book is a good place to start. Bravo!	2005-01-18
US	53013507	R3ALAGH7FPAOC7	0735202826	699224456	How to Be Twice as Smart: Boosting Your Brainpower and Unleashing the Miracles of Your Mind	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	Should be titled: How to look ten times smarter than you are	Recent advances in neuroscience indicate that the brain benefits from mental exercise as much as muscles benefit from physical exercise. The benefits are due to increased synaptic efficiency, increased synapses, production of new neurons by neurogenesis, increased neurotransmitter activity and the production of brain derived neurotrophic growth factors. This book, among many, must therefore be of material assistance in building brain power. Particularly helpful are the sections on mental arithmetic, memory, and listening techniques. The parts on hidden meanings enabled me to understand the covert messages that are attached to almost everything that is said and saved me over $100,000 in recent negotiations that I was involved in. Some of the advice on how to increase creativity is questionable but interesting. All in all, the book didn't make me twice as smart, but it did make me look twice as smart, especially in front of the grandchildren.	2005-01-18
US	53013507	R12SP7WQY63YSG	0684854295	235571318	Ernest Hemingway on Writing	Books	5	141	152	N	N	He won the Nobel Prize in Literature for a reason	Of course, I've read everything he wrote, but I wasn't prepared to get the key information on writing enclosed in this little book. Most people think Hemingway was a rough and tumble guy who wrote in his spare time when he had the urge. Most other times, the legend goes, he was too busy drinking, fishing, or womanizing. This book clearly shows that ain't so. He spent most of his time, the way real writers do: Writing and thinking about writing. Often he would check into a hotel, let everyone know he was there, and then stay somewhere else so as not to be disturbed from his main mission. The gems of informations depicted here come in the form of advice to the Mice (H's term for young student writers) from Y.C. (your correspondent). Did you know, for instance, &quot;Most live writers do not exist. Their fame is created by critics who always need a genius of the season, someone they understand completely and feel safe in praising, but when these fabricated geniuses are dead they will not exist.&quot; Or how about this gem: &quot;If an sonofbitch could write he wouldn't have to teach in college.&quot; Particulary interesting is Papa's advice to writers about reading. He was of the opinion that most writers write too much and don't read enough. His advice is to master Tolstoi, Flaubert, Mann, Joyce, Fielding, Mark Twain, Stendhal, Dostoevskis, Crane, Kipling, Turgenev, Hudson, James, (on and on so fast you can't write them down, three times that many) before you start writing. Very good advice, I would say. His point being you must first read the literature before you can write literature. This book does omit one piece of advice that H never gave but which he practiced by example. He memorized the King James Bible (cf Moveable Feast) and could recite it by heart. He did this to get down into the very structure of his brain the cadences that express beauty and truth effectively. The secret of his terse style is therefore the secret of clear and simple expression as in that wonderful version of the Bible.t wonderful version of the Bible.	2003-11-22
US	53013507	R3OYMBMBWJF8F9	0899683444	100524300	The Black Cloud	Books	5	10	18	N	N	Good science and good fiction	This is good science and good fiction. What more do you want? The plot moves quickly and intelligently and the characters sound like the guys he knows from his astronomy department at Cambridge. Much of the humor is British of course and the spelling and inside jokes are British too. I like the way he pokes fun at the American tendency to drop bombs on anything they don't understand. Americans haven't changed much from 1957 (when this book was first published) to the present. Hoyle must have been naughty because he got his FRS about twenty years before he got his knighthood. The long delay indicating that the politicians and royals who make up the honor list, had reservations about putting him on it. The only character that needs further development is the cloud. I would have liked to get the cloud's opinion on a whole bunch of topics, but unfortunately the cloud had to move on. Why it's moving on so soon was never quite clear. Perhaps if you read this book, you can let me know.	2003-11-20
US	53013507	R2PIUEPKHFQXXU	0812912349	39522887	A Machine Called Indomitable	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Here's the real story behind magnetic imaging	O.K. you want to know how real science is done by real scientists: This is the book to read. Raymond was cut out of the Nobel Prize for NMR for reasons that have to do with his abbrasive personality and not for any other reason. President Nixon gave Ray the funds he needed to get the technique off the ground despite the turn downs by NIH and the scientific establishment and the rest, as they say, is history. Incidentally, Damadian is recognized as the inventor of NMR by the US patent office and also received the National Medal of Science for the discovery. Another authentic histories of real scientists doing real science are the Double Helix and Quia Imperfectum - both amazing stories, the first about the discovery of the structure of DNA and the second about the discovery of L-DOPA for Parkinsonism.	2003-10-09
US	53013507	R1JZ97VRE95LK2	0393057615	415395630	Sappho's Leap: A Novel	Books	2	14	23	N	N	Too much summary, not enough real emotion	The reviewers have not been kind to this book and having read it, I know why. It has too much intellectual stuff and not enough true emotion. It has too much summary and not enough rendered experience. The locales, the historical references, the literary allusions all add up to prove that Erica did a great deal of authentic research about ancient Greece and Delphi and all that. But making a non-tendentious novel by the non-episodic coherent intergration of all this information is something she didn't do. You will get more enjoyment from reading her other works such as Fruits &amp; Vegetables, Half-Lives, Fear of Flying, and Witches.	2003-06-14
US	53013507	R32W7P1LEQ9V1D	1582430381	843451544	The Analects	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Don't you want to know what the sage really said?	China has been a nation governed by philosophers, among them many state officials trained by the great Confucius. My first contact with his sayings was in the old Charlie Chan movies where Confucius always seemed to have an important contribution to make in solving the murder. In the Analects we get more great sayings. But this time they are there to make an important contribution to our quest for the good life, which will follow naturally from self-cultivation and mastery of the Tao. I suppose there are some who don't need wisdom to live wisely. As for me, I am not that lucky. I need to read the philosophers like Confucius and get their input. Particularly important for modern times are the Master's statements about government, epistemology, rituals, and money. \\"In government, the secret is integrity. Use it.\\" How about this one? \\"Shall I explain understanding for you, Lu? When you understand something, you know you understand it. When you don't understand something, know you don't understand it. That is understanding.\\" Adept Kung wanted to do away with sacrificing sheep to announce a new moon to the ancestors. The Master said, \\"You love sheep, Kung.\\" Pretty funny! The thing the really dropped me off my chair was the Master's explanation why a powerfull nation should never attack a less powerful nation preemptively. (This was the Chi versus Chung-Yu controversy, but it applies to Iraq.) Read that yourself and tell me if it doesn't make sense. Another gem: After the master heard a line from a poem: I haven't stopped loving you/ but your home is so far away - The Master said, \\"If he'd really loved her, he wouldn't have worried about the distance.\\" Hinton's translations are simple and direct and relate to the spirit of the Chinese but not the letter. Those of you who know Chinese (I still murder the language after 22 years of study) know how difficult it is to translate into English. The reason is that the thoughts are actually different in Chinese and any translation therefore must miss the mark. Hinton is excellent but I also recommend you also take a look at the Arthur Wailey translation for a balanced view.therefore must miss the mark. Hinton is excellent but I also recommend you also take a look at the Arthur Wailey translation for a balanced view.	2003-05-28
US	53013507	RFD61NV5BVWGY	0684824795	240643617	Snow White	Books	5	11	16	N	Y	Post Modernism at its best	EM Forster asked in his famous Aspects of the Novel why can't the novel invent a form less rigid and more suitable to its genius. I agree. So much of what is served up these days to the public is a waste of time and obviously exists simply for commercial purposes. Not Snow White. Here we have real literature with a capital L and here we have real imagination too. Based on the original tale, alert readers will love how a master writer converts the simple to the complex, the silly to the profound, and yet keeps us entertained as he goes. Oh, I know in this democratic era questions of elitism are de trop. But so what? Go ahead and read an elitist book. It won't hurt and you will have a lot of fun in the process.	2003-05-15
US	53013507	RAG0KZ0TI1TYH	0811200655	667583654	The Lime Twig: A Novel (New Directions Paperbook)	Books	5	6	17	N	Y	An experience well worth the effort	Each week on a Monday I go to the library and read plots. This is a way that I get ideas for my own writing. One day I ran across one of the most interesting and imaginative plots I had ever seen and of course I had to get the book. John Hawkes, a Gothic novelist, must be the least read novelist of substantial merit that I know. His story is quite like the consciousness we live but which is not often recorded in books - untidy, half-focused, disarrayed and incoherent. And yet, and yet, he keeps our interest because his story is real. And so Sidney Slyter says go read The Lime Twig and see if you don't agree that it is one of the most perfect novels of our time.	2003-05-15
US	53013507	R37MXFG16BOLEC	0789306735	34699902	The Parisian Cafe: A Literary Companion	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Everyone has two countries - his own and Paris	Wow! I found this little gem at the bookstore at the Houston Museum of Fine Arts. The cover attracted me because it looked like a scene I had seen many times when I lived and wrote in Paris. Any writer who has spent time in Cafe le Dome or Le Select will get multiple nostalgia attacks looking over the pictures and reading the quotes from Shaw, Papa Hemingway, Camus and the other greats. The review title above about everyone having two countries comes from Thomas Jefferson who loved Paris. Too bad he is dead, for he too would have also loved Val Clark's wonderful little book.	2003-05-15
US	53013507	R17MY3DBB2SO8W	0671477099	458212829	Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy (Hitchhiker's Trilogy (Paperback))	Books	1	11	33	N	Y	Great if you like TV, Otherwise a waste of time	Before his death, Doug Adams gave an interview in which, among other things, he mentioned that he was surprised that people wanted more of the hitchhiker stuff because as far as he was concerned it was old hat and not funny. With him I have to agree and one has to be puzzled why people would read such drivel as this. The characters, the plot, the story, the background, the atmosphere, the landscape, the tone etc. is just awful, with little or no redeeming social or artistic value. Doug said as much in the interview, but indicated that he hated the idea of writing more of this stuff, but he needed the money. You'll save your eyes and your time and get more benefits by sleeping than by reading this book-like-object.	2002-12-12
US	53013507	R2VG1SMDF35XAN	0393048470	718203903	The Annotated Alice: The Definitive Edition	Books	5	6	15	N	Y	Strickly for real Carroll fans	In the case of Alice, we are dealing with a very curious, complicated form of nonsense, which explores the possibilities of the uses and abuse of language and is actually based on a profound knowledge of the rules of logic. In fact, most of Carroll's apercus and all his joked are inversions of the rules of logic or plays on words. Reason is here in service to imagination and not vice-versa. The wealth of material which Carroll presents for the illumination of his philosophy is almost without end. The more I read Alice, the more I realize the books are dense enough to defy complete exegesis. Carroll's genius lies in the ability to disguise charmingly the seriousness of his concerns and to make the most playful quality of his work at the same time its didactic crux. This annotation version helps by telling us about some aspects of the era and setting that Alice and Charles Lutwidge Dodgson lived in, about Christ Church, and Duckworth etc. but it misses the details about the main points of logic that are being made by Carroll. So far I haven't found a satisfactory text that does that. Perhaps I will have to write one myself.	2002-12-12
US	53013507	RZOSJZ6ZR4W9Z	0448060043	718203903	Alice in Wonderland and Through the Looking Glass (Illustrated Junior Library)	Books	5	22	26	N	N	Story so deep as to yield in exegesis results beyond belief	Charles Lutwidge Dodgson, better known as Lewis Carroll, was a shy, eccentric bachelor who taught mathematics at Christ Church, Oxford. He had a great fondness of playing with mathematics, logic, words, for writing nonsense, and for the company of little girls, especially a little girl called Alice Liddell (rhymes with fiddle), the daughter of Christ Church's Dean. Dodgson's passions somehow fused into two great masterpieces of English literature, the Alice Books, immortal fantasies whose fame surpassed that of all of Carroll's collegues at Oxford put together. If the Alice books had any &quot;purpoise&quot; other than to entertain little girls, it is to send you, the reader, to the pleasures of logic and philosophy and, as Carroll says in the introduction to Learners (1897) &quot;to give a chance of adding a very large item to your stock of mental delights.&quot; Carroll's special genius lies in his ability to disguise charmingly the seriousness of his concerns and to make the most playful quality of his work at the same time its didactic crux. In the case of Alice, we are dealing with a very curious, complicated kind of nonsense, which explores the possibilities of the use and abuse of language and is actually based on a profound knowledge of the rules of clear thinging and logical thought. In fact, most of Carroll's apercus and all his jokes are inversions of the rules. Reason is here in service to the imagination, not vice versa. And oh my! Those interesting characters! I like to think that most of the characters that Alice meets are Oxford Dons that the real Alice knew. They sound like Dons with their fine mastery of Socratic logic, their crushing repartee, and the disconcerting and totally unself-conscious eccentricity of their conduct. The wealth of material which Carroll presents for the illumination of his subjects is almost without end. The more I read it, the more I think about it, the more I find. In fact, I have reached the conclusion that AAW is in actual fact a story so deep as to yield results in exegesis almost beyond belief. Also consider purchasing The Annotated Alice by Gardiner. It will help increase your reading pleasure.ual fact a story so deep as to yield results in exegesis almost beyond belief. Also consider purchasing The Annotated Alice by Gardiner. It will help increase your reading pleasure.	2002-12-10
US	53013507	R2ORHU728QSI9G	1568497369	307844923	And Then There Were None	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Logically coherent and entertaining too	The queen of mystery writing deserves her reputation. And this is her best book. I have read and reread it and have yet to find a flaw. Originally published as Ten Little Indians for reasons which will become apparent as you read it, this little gem should be read by all who aspire to write novels. The characters, the landscape, the background, the build up of action, the fantastic action -- all leave me breathless as well as enthrauled with the perfect narrative tone and control exhibited in this masterpiece. If you haven't read it yet, you are in for a treat. It is way better than the movie, the play, or any of her other works including The Seven Dials Mystery, Three Blind Mice, Witness for the Prosecution and Murder on the Orient Express.	2002-12-10
US	53013507	R1HR24O2X7A0J1	0452280621	675572194	Beloved	Books	5	1	3	N	Y	Faulkner's South from the other side of the Tracks	Now a motion picture and a winner of the Pulitzer Prize for fiction, this story is the view of Faulkner's South from the other side of the railroad tracks. Like most classics it deals with history, trauma and healing, survival and memory. The main character (Sethe) is, as usual in a Morrison book, a Black Woman writ Big with conflicts with her past, with the slave society she was born into, with the crossing to freedom, and with the birth of her infant daughter whom she kills rather than surrender to the slave masters. Whether that daughter returns as a ghost or not doesn't matter much. My feeling is that everything, or almost everything, about Beloved is explainable without supernatural intervention. Advice: Read this for the poetry and the insight into black culture and for the reduction of slavery into one woman's poignant story. Then suffer through the movie. Then reread the book and appreciate it for what it really is: A redemptive work of art.	2002-12-08
US	53013507	R2G20CUBM7CPX4	1568496982	177553936	The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie	Books	5	4	7	N	Y	A Novel which will be read as long as Novels are read	Based on the real life Christina Kay at the James Gillespie school, this classic is a must for anyone who would like to be considered literate in English Literature. Miss Jean Brodie is one of the most complex, idealistic, self-deluded, vulnerable, vital, romantic, preposterous, lonely, gregarious, outspoken and solipsistic character you will ever meet. She is the square on the hypotenuse of a right-angled triangle whereas others are only the squares on the two sides. Listen to her lessons: \\"Phrases like 'the team spirit' are always employed to cut across individualism, love, and personal loyalitiies. Ideas like 'team spirit' ought not to be enjoined on the female sex, expecially if they are of that dedicated nature whose virtues from time immemorial have been utterly opposed to the concept. Florence Nightingale knew nothing of team spirit, her mission was to save life regardless of the team to which it belonged. Cleopatra knew nothing of the team spirit if you read your Shakespeare. Take Helen of Troy! ... Where would team spirit have got Sybil Thorndike? She is the great actress and the rest of the cast have got the team spirit. Pavlova...\\"<br />Jean if you are out there now, marry me. Please. You're my kind of woman.	2002-10-20
US	53013507	R1FHNBC1J1K0HV	0534557376	439888480	Choice and Chance: An Introduction to Inductive Logic	Books	5	23	28	N	Y	A Good Introduction to Induction	This is a good introduction to logic, inductive and, to a lesser extent, deductive. It probably serves better as a textbook than as an aid to individual learning, but under the proper conditions and with the proper reader, it could serve both. I liked it best when it was explaining the truth tables and the rules of the calculus of probability. Particularly interesting are the practical applications in the exercises, especially in cards and dice and, to a lesser extent, horse racing. The concepts of utility and belief need amplification because they come off too briefly in relation to their importance. No one who has mastered this book would ever have trouble calculating the exact value of a bet - a benefit of some importance to us gamblers. I have never seen or heard of the theory of marginal value applied to money. It certainly applies to other things, like water. Too little water makes water very valuable, enough is enough, and too much gives water a negative value (as in our current flooding in Texas). Skyrms is right about some aspects of money: Too little and it hurts. Don't believe me? Try walking around New York City on the weekend with only a dime in your pocket. A poor man would be a fool to risk $1000 on an even money bet. Because if he lost, it would hurt a lot. A rich man could lose that bet and not suffer at all. And of course, enough money is good. Therefore, money does have a relative value. Whether it has a marginal value (too much is bad) is debatable. Some things that might be corrected in the next addition: The answers to the exercises should have pages numbers for more easy reference. The cover is wrong in saying there are answers for every other problem. That is only partially true and in fact some exercises have no answers eg VIII 3 has no answers to any exercise. And Symes is wrong in assuming that evaluating all the evidence doesn't cost anything (page 154). It costs time and trouble. Whether it is worth it would depend on the situation.	2002-07-07
US	53013507	R1NUDT94JTUEIA	0879758945	441314506	American Philosophic Naturalism in the Twentieth Century	Books	1	6	11	N	Y	Dry as dust, has no index, & leaves out Peirce!	The headline is not exactly accurate. Peirce is mentioned once on page 514. Otherwise the greatest contributor to American Philosophy (one of the greatest anyway) is omitted.<br />I trudged through this book and am better for having done so. But I can't say I would recommend it to a friend. I might recommend it to my insomniac patients because it has profound sleep inducing properties and might help those patients hit the hay. The book is a collection of 29 essays by multiple authors including four essays by John Dewey and three by George Santayana. Dewey is OK and, when at his best, makes sense. Santayana is obscure, exasperating, and irksome making little sense and raising my suspicions that he has a thought disorder. Others in this volume are just poor writers. One has a feeling that some of them might have something worthwhile to say, but they just couldn't get their ideas down right. They just couldn't communicate properly. Most of these authors would have vastly benefited from the kindly ministrations of a good editor. Perhaps the problem is that they are so used to lecturing to students who are immature and too inexperienced with life to question the bunkum. The best essay by far is by Paul Kurtz on Libertarianism: The Philosophy of Moral Freedom. Paul has something to say and he says it well. Thanks Paul for a breath of fresh air. The worse essay, in my opinion, is that by Peter Manicas. His Nature and Culture is mainly opaque nonsense. Here's an example: \\"Creatures which lack language nevertheless gesture. Thus the perception by a dog that another is ready to attack becomes a stimulus to change his position or his own attitude. He has no sooner done this that the change of attitude causes the first dog to change his attitude. \\"We have here,\\" Mead notes, \\"a conversation of gestures.\\" But it would be an error to say these acts have meaning for the animals. Dewey and Mead insist that \\"meanings do not come into being without language\\" and these creatures lack language... The plateau of coordinated animal response is not irrelevant to communication at the linguistic plateau even if it is not reducible to it.\\" Ho, Ho, Ho. That is funny as a wonderful illustration of someone trying to look smarter than they are by pretentiously puffing and expanding language into a vaporous cloud of nothing much. What he meant was that dogs communicate by gesture but do not speak English.anguage... The plateau of coordinated animal response is not irrelevant to communication at the linguistic plateau even if it is not reducible to it.\\" Ho, Ho, Ho. That is funny as a wonderful illustration of someone trying to look smarter than they are by pretentiously puffing and expanding language into a vaporous cloud of nothing much. What he meant was that dogs communicate by gesture but do not speak English.	2002-06-29
US	53013507	R3B876247SKE5Q	1573922110	8497435	Think to Win: The Power of Logic in Everyday Life	Books	5	23	24	N	Y	A good place to begin your quest for truth	Lesser sense reasoning is that reasoning used to boost one's own argument and support one's own beliefs. Greater sense reasoning is that reasoning used to discover truth. Although the title of this book suggests that it is concerned with lesser sense arguments, it's actual mission is to help people think better and, therefore, this is a greater sense logic book. Probably some PR or marketing person mispersuaded the author to title his book &quot;Think to Win&quot; in the hope that that title might increase sales. This book is a modest contribution toward a kind of &quot;logical literacy&quot; so much needed these days in the United States. As such, it can serve as a guide for people to use in practical everyday situations to evaluate what they are being told by politiciians and TV commentators as well as by their friends and neighbors. The book has no rules, few formulas, no diagrams, and no exercises. It would serve as a good, easy to read, light, orienting introduction to the elements of clear thinking. If you are not sure what is meant by begging the question, partial selection of the evidence, or false analogy, then this book is a good place to start to correct your deficiencies and begin your quest for truth.	2002-06-20
US	53013507	R3E52LH3YK1RZU	0710302312	822237225	Tahiti - The Marriage Of Loti (Pacific Basin Books)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Romantic and Exotic	Every love story has the plot that two people want each other but for some reason they can't have each other. In addition to that plot there must be another story and a background landscape that is interesting. In The Marriage of Loti the central love story concerns Loti and his 14 year old native wife, Rahahu. Loti is in the Navy  and has to leave paradise. Rahahu has to stay. Hence the reason they can't have each other forever. It's sad, but it's true. It's true because the story is taken from Julien Viaud's (the real Pierre Loti) autobiographical notes. The landscape is also true including the portrayal of the court of Pomare IV, the last Queen of Tahiti. True even to the details of how the Queen is attended when she must answer the call of nature. The other story, and the one of little real interest, concerns Loti's search for the children of his brother, a quest that has a tacked on unreal quality. That story deserves little praise. But the book as a whole deserves great praise. In its day this book sold well, over 300,000 copies. Because of it, Loti was made a memeber of the French Academy and he was much praised as &quot;a new Chateaubriand&quot; and the &quot;most original, the most delicate, and yet the most popular of contemporary French novelists.&quot; Loti's reputation has dwindled, but with the renewed interest in other cultures, especially the exotic cultures of the South Pacific, it may be due for a revival. I read this novel in three hours (185 pages plus several beautiful pictures drawn by Loti). When I had finished I was left with the feeling that I had read one of the great love stories of that time, one of the most sensitive descriptions of Polynesia, and the most sympathetic approach to the understanding of Tahiti ever done in the analogical matrix that we call fiction.	2002-06-17
US	53013507	R1C5B8YB2WAWPI	0060155477	520372009	The Intelligent Investor: A Book of Practical Counsel	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	The Best Investment Book ever Written	This is the best investment book that I have read and I am a veteran of many investment books having written one myself. In fact, The Intelligent Investor is probably the best investment book ever written. Good investing doesn't require a gigantic IQ, but it does need a proper state of mind, the intellectual framework for recognizing the truth and the ability to keep your emotions from eroding that framework. What I liked the best in the book was the numerous case studies which allowed me to work out my investment decisions on given stock situations and then see what subsequently happened to that stock. The subsequent discussions and the results proved that stock picking can be quite scientific and predictable. The book further proves that the investors worst enemy is often himself/herself. The fault Dear Brutus is not in our stocks but in ourselves for we are underlings. Enthusiasm might do well in other endeavors, but in Wall Street it almost invariably leads to disaster. In Wall Street it's the facts that count not wishful thinking or fantasy as so many have recently learned. Incidentally, I agree with Graham's definition: An investment is one which, upon analysis, promises safety of principal and an adequate return. Anything else is a speculation and should be avoided. Follow Graham and you might profit from the folly of others rather than participate in folly yourself.	2002-06-13
US	53013507	RJD5W61F3T9XA	0395317045	609585276	Groupthink: Psychological Studies of Policy Decisions and Fiascoes	Books	5	17	21	N	Y	This is a classic of social psychology	This classic of social psychology is based on the idea that people in groups might think differently and by implication less well than they would have thought as individuals on the same issue at the same time. That is probably true for some groups at some times just as it is also probably true that some groups at some times might actually think better than any individual member of that group. In fact, most of the evidence cited in this book supports the idea that group thinking, like thinking in general, goes awry when there is a failure to evaluate all the available evidence for relevance and sufficiency in quality, quantity, and weight. When a group or an individual fails to evaluate the evidence, then the group or the individual reaches a decision not justified by the data and vice versa. Failure to perceive the reality, as demonstrated by evidence, has tremendous adverse consequences as is so well illustrated by Janis' detailed account of the Bay of Pigs fiasco. Correct evaluation of the data, as demonstrated by evidence, has tremendous beneficial consequences as is so well illustrated by Janis' detailed account of the Cuban Misssile crisis. In fact, the fascinating parts of this book relate to the detailed analysis of group decisions in history, a reason enough to buy and read this fine work despite the price. Incidentally, Gilbert Murray has sought to explain the group cohesiveness thing by another myth which he calls &quot;the groping of a lonely-souled gregarious animal to find its herd or its herd-leader.&quot; But however we attempt to account for the craving for unity in some groups, it seems to be a deeply rooted human irrational demand. Like James' &quot;sentiment of rationality,&quot; it is a sentiment and a need long before it is justified by any discoverable facts. Our duty is to be on guard against it. Groupthink, this classic book, should boost our defenses.	2002-06-12
US	53013507	R22E6C6W3QKB3C	0879754249	257473165	The Art of Deception: An Introduction to Critical Thinking : How to : Win an Argument, Defend a Case, Recognize a Fallacy, See Through a Deception,	Books	2	139	157	N	Y	Other books on the subject are better	Who open scroll always profit says an ancient Chinese motto. The same applies to books. I profited from reading this one, but I didn't profit much or enough. The work is uneven and needs focus. The title is poor because it misnames the subject of the book which is, incidentally, not how to win an anrgument, but how to think clearly. Some of the author's points would have passed me by and probably other points would have been downright confusing had I not had a background in logic. And one wonders about a book on the Art of Deception deceiving people into believing that the book is one thing when it is really about something else. Perhaps some well meaning editior or PR person mispersuaded the author to use this fake and phony title in the hope of increased sales. A few bones: I don't like the word argument because of its two meanings. Demonstration is better. The formal analysis of arguments (my demonstrations) in chapter three hits the reader on the head: Although it is technically correct, without a background in formal logic you might get lost fast. The chapter could have done better explaining the differences between contraries and contradictions and the reasons for the other errors which are never clearly stated. The author just assumes the reader will get it when I have a feeling derived from teaching logic for years that they won't and don't. For intstance, why the undistributed middle term invalidates a proof is clear to me only because I knew it from previous studies, and thought long and hard about it, not from what the author says here in his book. And the worst sin of all: Somewhere in the middle of the discussion of groupthink, the author seems to get bored with his own discussion. No wonder the reader nods off. Those interested in improving their critical thinking should read Asking the Right Questions. Those interested in understanding errors in logic might consult The Art of Argument by St. Aubyn, a book that hits hard where we need improvement by showing us the common errors of thinking of overgeneralization, false analogy, vague definition, and partial selection of the evidence.owing us the common errors of thinking of overgeneralization, false analogy, vague definition, and partial selection of the evidence.	2002-06-11
US	53013507	R3UEJL2XVOCP38	0140185976	304026032	The Moon and Sixpence (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Made time to read this classic	There are many good books out there and none of us have time to read them all. Here is one that you should make the time to read. For much labor, thought, and (dare I say it) love went into the writing of this classic biography of the artistic genius, stockbroker turned painter, Paul Gauguin. Much love, and some imagination, and a ton of research including visits to the haunts of the man himself -- Paris and Tahiti and Taravao, the home of Ata, Paul's woman in the islands. Add to this the sympathetic outlook of a humanist and the craftsmanship of a great novelist and you get one of the great books of our time and probably of all time. This is a book written by a genius about a genius who made pictures that were and are still stupendous and overwhelming. Charles Strickland's (Gauguin's alter ego and the protagonist of this story) last picture, the Polynesian garden of the Hesperides, with its quivering purple and red lusters that suggested the palpitation of something mysterious and terrible with the possibilities of the Unknown, possessed a somber passion previously unknown in the history of art. It was his best and most complete work, done a year after the artist had gone blind from leprosy. By his command it was burned soon after his death. When you visit Taravao, you will see a replica which still has tremendous power. After you read this book, you will understand that power and you will have an appreciation for Gauguin's art that you never had before. You will have an appreciation for beauty and truth that succinctly demonstrates the redemptive quality of great art.	2002-06-09
US	53013507	R3FTZU6WK3KVBQ	189310866X	213484260	Quia Imperfectum	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Better than Double Helix and more fun	Chairman Mao said that all political power comes out of a gun. George C. Cotzias proved that wrong. Cotzias discovered L-DOPA for parkinson's disease and used it to treat Chairman Mao. Chinese-American relations improved immediately. But more than that, this is the real quill: the real story of real scientists working on the frontier of science with all the back biting, petty jealousies, and the red thread of life. I read it through in three hours because I just couldn't put it down and unlike this author's previous books, I didn't have to look up a single word in the dictionary.	2002-06-06
US	53013507	R1AJU9CRV9UBK9	0618007016	111923730	The Three Pigs	Books	5	34	35	N	Y	A Postmodern Version for Children and Adults	Wow! This is one great book both for children and adults. The story is not The Three Little Pigs that we all know so well, but a postmodern version called The Three Pigs that expands laterally and not chronologically. The Three Little Pigs is a traditional modern tale whose moral is to postpone pleasure and protect yourself. The characters are flat, the story predictable, and, once you know it, dull. Here, in the postmodern version, the characters are multidimentional and the story not predictable. In fact, the pigs fall out of the text, complain about being eaten by the wolf, go on a paper airplane ride, meet up with the cat in the fiddle and a dragon, cutting across many different levels of culture. Adults may be puzzled, but the kids catch on right away and love it. Encouraged by the power of imagination, the kids start to make up their own versions. Parents, fear not. The pigs in David Wiesner's award winning version - all three of them - end up back at home in the brick house safe from the wolf and in famous company (dragon and cat), living happily ever after together.	2002-03-01
US	53013507	RP9C9TNF3M8PT	055380202X	135474617	The Universe in a Nutshell	Books	5	13	15	N	Y	A great gift for your pseudoscholar friends	Scholarship is great. But you know what? Most real scholarship is rare and is probably incommunicable. Enter a book like this with wonderful color illustrations, a writer with a reasonable sense of humor, and a text that gives if you work on it. Yes, I said work. There is no other way. Books have to be read; it is the only way of discovering what they contain. Worst luck, it takes time and energy. But the rewards are great and will include your being a welcome asset at dinner parties, especially those parties that discuss the origin of the universe, the nature of matter, the distortion of space-time by gravity, and the possibilities of time loops working backward.<br />I read A Brief History of Time, the first book by Stephen, and found much repetition in this his follow-up book. And like a dummy I paid full price at the local Barnes and Noble for The Universe in a Nutshell when I should have ordered from Amazon. After reading the book and rereading it, I ordered three as Christmas gifts for my children. I wanted to share with them the knowledge that: 1. The universe is awesome. 2. Our current understanding of the universe is awesome too. And 3. This masterpiece by one of the awesome physicist-mathematicians of our time is awesome as well.	2001-12-19
US	53013507	R1TINM91A1AFCT	0140445226	428663852	Sketches from a Hunter's Album: The Complete Edition (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	21	24	N	Y	A Collection of short stories for those who don't like them	I don't like short stories, never have and I don't know why. I had to read this collection for a course and found it pretty good. The professor told us that this was Hemingway's favorite book which Hemingway had read over and over. In fact, Hemingway modeled some of his own stories on those here, particularly the Hemingway stories where nothing happens except someone might make a pot of coffee. But let's face it, these are not so much stories (narrations of events in time) as sketches of characters. Any plot would be too much plot and would interfer with the general effect, which is to show us the life and times of Russians before the liberation of the serfs. I liked &quot;The Singers&quot;, as other reviewer have, but the true masterpiece, worth the entire price of the book, is &quot;Living Relic.&quot; Nothing happens in that story except we learn again the beauty and strength of the human spirit and in the process the redemptive nature of true literature.	2001-12-06
US	53013507	R37VJF1Z2UG2GQ	0670899097	235723201	Dante (Penguin Lives)	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	A Good Beginning for Your Studies of Dante	Dante was the poet historian of Florence, its passionate official, and its bitter and frustrated exile. His life became entangled in the old European struggle between the Guelphs and the Ghibellines, two names derived from two noble combative houses of Germany, the Welf and Weiblingen. The Guelphs, so long the leaders of Florence, fell to quarreling with each other. In the fall of 1301 war broke out between the White Guelpohs and the Black Guelphs. The Blacks, who favored the nobles over the merchants, summoned Dante to appear to answer charges of corruption during his previous administration. When he failed to show, he was condemned to death. Dante never set foot in Florence again. Dante got his revenge, as writers often do, by writing about his enemies. In this case the writing was the Comedia, subsequently dubbed the Divine Comedy. Having taken two college courses in Dante and one given by Richard Howard, I think there was nothing in this little book that I didn't know or wasn't familiar with. And there was nothing in it that was wrong or controversial. I recommend it as a good way to start your study of Dante and I commend it as a good way to get up to speed on the life and times of the poet that Yeats said started modern poetry.	2001-09-20
US	53013507	R1J3U1K9JGHSMU	0449000419	792813592	Toward the End of Time: A Novel	Books	5	6	11	N	N	A Postmodern fastasy worth reading	Told in the first person by various narrators including an Egyptian grave robber, Saint Mark, an Irish Monk at Lindisfarne, a Nazi guard in Poland, who are previous incarnations of the main character, Ben Trunbull a retired stock broker who lives in Boston, the story takes place in 2020 right after the Sino-American war which destroyed the governments of both countries. The Federal Express has taken over the functions of government and moved the capital to Memphis where it has its headquarters. Fedex collects protection money, but Ben likes this new way of doing things better since Fedex payoff is far less than the tax bite used to be when the US bureaucracy ran the show. The dollar has inflated out of existence and the de facto currency is the Welder issued by 13 Boston banks and named in honor of a former governor of Massachusetts. The narrative is postmodern and tentative. For example, at one point Ben is urged by his screaming wife, Gloria, to shoot the deer eating her hedge. He shoots Gloria instead and then takes up with a prostitute named Deirdre. Deirdre leaves Ben because he is &quot;too dull.&quot; After that Gloria returns. Ben tells us maybe he didn't kill her after all. Maybe she was just away to a convention for gift shop owners. The narrative then  continues where Gloria left off. If you haven't seen Lola Runs, a German film narrated with the technique, you should. Toward the end of time was panned and praised by two different reviews in the NY Time. Since a book can not be both good and bad (or can it), wonder which review is correct. You know where I stand with my five star rating. Read it yourself and let me know where you stand.	2001-09-07
US	53013507	R3L78NRA65PHVT	0374479828	985928617	Tristan and Iseult: An Inspired Retelling of the Legendary Love Story (Sunburst Book)	Books	5	17	20	N	Y	A Tristan for Children and Teenages	Tristan is a Celtic legend dating from the fifth century and probably told around peat fires until written down by Thomas of Brittany circa 1160. Subsequently this ancient tale received medieval dress as the troubadours enriched it and placed it in turreted castles in which it is generally set. Subsequent authors have all tampered with the tale, adjusting it to suit their needs. Sutcliff has done the same by simplifying and shortening and leaving out the love potion aas the explanation of why Tristan and Iseult fall in love. Her version is a concise pellet of information and story I presume designed for children and teenagers for whom it is well suited. Those of you who like your Tristan straight up should read The Romance of Tristan in the Curtis translation or Beroul's masterpiece The Romance of Tristan and Iseult by Bedier. Those who wish to read a truly zany version might take a look at The Romance of Tristan and Iseult: Modern Version (the one I like the best) wherein the lovers communicate by fax machines and portable phones.	2001-08-20
US	53013507	R3K55RPRJKM02N	0060931671	183823737	The Crying of Lot 49 (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	This Novel Stands with The Great Gatsby	Her name is Oepida Maas. Her husband is Mucho Maas. Her lover was Pierce Inverarity who ran Yoyodyne Corporation in San Narciso. He psychiatrist is Dr. Hilarious. You get the idea - there are funny names in this story. Oepida is made the executor of Pierce's estate. Diligently, in this romance, satire, antidetective novel, she tries to find out the extent of her duties and the extent of the estate. Along the way, things go from simple to complex, ordered to disordered, concrete to abstract, just the opposite of the usual novel, and she becomes enmeshed in either a worldwide conspiracy called Trystero or enmeshed in her imagining of a worldwide conspiracy called Trystero, and organization, if it exists, dedicated to alternative culture and government derived from the Thurn and Taxis Postal system started in 1577 in Holland. Oepida's quest reminds me of the Faerie Queene charmed from her human virtues while searching for self-knowledge. Her sensitivity to external events and the hidden meanings in the nature of things (are they really there, those meanings?) reminds me of Emily's sensitivity to external things in The Mysteries of Udolpho. But her and Pynchon's language reminds me of nothing I have ever seen: It is an original blend of erudition, and slang with scintillations, multiple meanings, cross references, parody, outlandish puns, pawky black humor -- all of which is steadily and intelligently directed and reflects an extraordinary writing talent. The characters are everywhere plugged in elsewhere, so Oepida can't connect with anyone except perhaps her two lovers and then only tentatively: one leaves her for a teenager; the other kills himself. The plot is driven by concepts in physics including the second law of thermodynamics and Maxwell's demon as well as by the idea that information theory equations reduce to entropy equations. Indeed the theme is that the world's entropic decline is evidences by its capacity for bureaucracy, atomic war, and domestic violence, all of which can be prevented by an increase in meaningful human communications. I like that idea and I like the comic ribbings of California manners and pop culture gone to rock and ruin. This novel stands with The Great Gatsby in concise attempt to capture dangerous exaltations in the closed entropic system known to us as America and in so doing reasserts the wonder that can animate the novel.e, all of which can be prevented by an increase in meaningful human communications. I like that idea and I like the comic ribbings of California manners and pop culture gone to rock and ruin. This novel stands with The Great Gatsby in concise attempt to capture dangerous exaltations in the closed entropic system known to us as America and in so doing reasserts the wonder that can animate the novel.	2001-08-17
US	53013507	R36WPNISE86REL	0684800713	781452863	The Sun Also Rises	Books	5	0	0	N	N	If you haven't read this masterpiece, you need to read it.	Hemingway won the Nobel Prize in Literature and for good reason as this his first major novel shows. What we notice about Hemingway is his style; but for all its infamous &quot;simplicity,&quot; Hemingway's style is very tightly controlled and rich in emotional intensities. He used to practice by reciting the King James version of the Bible in order to get the power and poetry of adjective deficient prose. Hemingway's characters wander, they do not &quot;Quest&quot; so he is probably postmodern. Nevertheless, the moderist issues of self and identity are prominent. These people live in the post WW II wasteland which as shown is absolutely authentic. Even the character Robert Cohn, the Jewish boxer from Princeton is real because, believe it or not, in those days circa 1926 boxing was a Jewish sport.	2001-08-16
US	53013507	R1NWBKOGTHC2B3	0679732187	864447420	Absalom, Absalom! The Corrected Text	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Faulkner's Most Ambitious Novel	Read this and you will prove to yourself why Faulkner won the Nobel Prize in Literature. Absalom, Absalom! is his most ambitious novel not only continuing his remarkable experimentation with style and narrative form but also seeking to unravel the complexities of southern history. This novel pushes the limits of story telling in order to expose the deeply ingrained racism of southern identity. A real challenge to the reader, we must listen carefully to the echoes that run throughout this labyrinthine tale. Any person who considers themselves literate must read this book. My advice is read the first ten pages aloud to get the style and form and after that it will be clear sailing. And well worth the effort.	2001-08-16
US	53013507	R37JCDTPZLOM7	0140283323	417477309	The Heart of the Matter (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	5	17	22	N	Y	Excellent in every way	This is one of the masterpieces of our time and having read it twice confirms that fact. Every true story, said Pappa Hemingway, ends in death. Greene's story is no exception. The things I liked the best were the fully developed and consistent characters, the fast pace, the amazing density, and the logical conclusion which is esthetically pleasing and morally correct. For those of us who write novels this is a textbook of how to carry the story questions and keep the reader interested. The subtle humor also helps. Read it yourself and let me know what you think.	2001-07-19
US	53013507	RJ7U2DJT91UCP	0671723650	132993260	How to Win Friends & Influence People	Books	1	33	68	N	N	There are too many fake things out there already	That this book sold over 15 million copies must give us pause. That kind of sales record might indicate that it is filling a basic need. What need is that? The need to feel good about yourself and to think that you are doing the right thing. And so we get a simple and simplistic set of lists and formulae that tells us how to behave so that we can win friends and influence people. Would that life were that simple! The author claims these rules are scientifically based because he has done some real research by reading the opinions of famous people on this subject and by hiring a researcher to read things when he didn't have the time. The general rules are therefore supposedly derived from authoritative sources. But for the most part they are illustrated by sets of anecdotes that have come from the author's students who enrolled in his courses because they felt they needed to improve. Therefore the premise is shaky and the data base faulty. Those of us who know logic would say that there has been a partial selection of evidence such that what is presented here doesn't reflect the true universe of possibilities. Therefore no scientific conclusions can be drawn about whether the ideas proffered work or not. Other logical errors present therein include begging the question, false analogy, and over generalization. The major problem, however, is that that book asks people to be fake. We have plenty of fake things around these days, too many in fact. We don't need fake people. Diogenes found when requested by Alexander the Great no difference between the bones of his father and those of his father's slaves. Surely the philosopher must have known that that was the wrong answer. But he gave it anyway and lost his post. I say it is better to lose one's position and keep one's integrity. For, at last, are leveled, king and slave, without distinction, in the silent grave.	2001-07-19
US	53013507	R2OFO3UNVKYQZX	074320395X	785819131	The Body Artist: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Masterpiece by a Master Writer	The characters are highly finished, and their pursuits indicate the keenest penetration, and the most perfect knowledge and understanding of the human situation. Especially important are the multiple correct details of our everyday lives. One example: &quot;When the phone rang she did not look at it the way they do in the movies.&quot; Amazing! DeLillo knows real people don't look at ringing phones and by telling us (with a negative description) he reminds us of what is phony and fake in the movies. This is a masterpiece by a master, one of the best living writers of English. If you are interested in real literature, not the fake imitation so prevalent these days, read this work by a writer's writer. The richness of the language is reward enough, but you'll get a good story too. After you have read this one, go on to read Mao II (PEN/Faulkner Award for Fiction), then Underworld (Howells Medal of the American Academy of Arts and Letters) and White Noise (National Book Award), after which you will be ready to approach his best novel to date, The Names.	2001-07-12
US	53013507	R2KSAMM4PSXDL1	0679732497	641034765	Pop. 1280	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Fast, fun, and funny - Thompson at his best	OK. You want a fast and funny story that's going to keep your interest and entertain: This is it. Thompson at his best. An easy read and one of the best structured stories extant. The ending let me down, because it's a cop out, but after seeing all those wonderful characters, doing such weird things in such a strange town, it didn't matter. When you have finished the book, go see Coup de Torchon to see what the French have done with the story. You will triple your pleasure. Incidentally, Nick Corey is not a psychopath as defined in DSM V. He is just a slow and easy going guy that likes to do things his way.	2001-07-09
US	53013507	R1IX97EA7RS47Q	0385484518	725864791	Tuesdays with Morrie: An Old Man, A Young Man and Life's Greatest Lesson	Books	1	15	30	N	N	This is a fake book with fake emotions	The subtitle is An Old Man, a Young Man, and Life's Greatest Lesson. What is that lesson? Should we follow Morrie's example and go on Nightline, not once, not twice, but three times, to tell why dying isn't all that bad? &quot;How bad is it, Morrie,&quot; Ted Koppel asks on the last show. Morrie tries to lift his arm which promptly collapses back. It's like those old Roman gladiatorial games where the crowd watches someone die and enjoys the thrill. Not only is that fake, it's disgusting. Fake emotions abound in this book and if you email me I will send you a list too long to include here. I can assure you Morrie is fake and so is the author. Both are cleaned up and polished fictional characters, sanitized humanoids to make them look sweet and nice for a TV audience mentality. But all that is neither here nor there compared to the main fake message which is: &quot;Once you learn to die, you learn to live.&quot; Wow! That has a kind of catchy affected poetic asymmetry to it. Let's think. Is it true? Does it make sense. Or is it a pile of you know what? In this fake book one true thing came through. It's on page 116 where Morrie says, &quot;And you know what? The strangest thing. I began to enjoy my dependency. Now I enjoy when they turn me over on my side and rub cream on my behind. I revel in it. I close my eyes and soak it up.&quot; Yup, that's the truth. Morrie's truth. And a none-too-pleasant truth. But it's just part of an even more macabre truth: Morrie like dying. No! He loved it. He reveled in the process. And he delighted in the TV celebrity he got from it. Too bad he never got to see his literary success too. It turns out that dying has a terrible price attached to it: It puts you out of touch and is so, so permanent.	2001-07-07
US	53013507	R22LGBJIL8AWM3	0786866586	574463302	Shopgirl: A Novella	Books	1	9	18	N	N	If Steve couldn't take it anymore, neither can you.	Steve Martin - I love him in Father of the Bride and the Jerk. He was in tip top form in Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid. Lapin Agile was great too, but when it comes to noveling, forget him. Here's what I think happened: Steve took a course on novel writing at UCLA and someone, either the teacher, or more likely his friends told him that what he had written was OK and should be published. And presto, it got published not because it was qualified but because it came from him. A novel must give some psychological insight into the characters, this one just parrots what Steve got from his psychiatrist. A novel should have a beginning, middle, and end, a real structure, this one doesn't. A novel should have rising action etc. The characters, despite what you read above in the other reviews, are one dimentional and don't rate a pin. And Steve, bless his heart, has not learned to show, not tell. But as the Chinese say, &quot;Who open scroll always profit.&quot; The profit from Shopgirl comes from the background landscape and the California scene described. I have a feeling that even Steve got bored with his story and that is why the book runs only 130 pages. If he couldn't take it anymore, you probably won't be able to take it either.	2001-07-07
US	53013507	R1PIHL2PBRYIFT	0446673544	656995955	Sex and the City	Books	5	4	11	N	Y	Sex is Fun and so is Sex in the City	It's Friday night at the Bowery Bar. It's snowing outside and buzzing inside. These people are up to their cuffs in cynicism, New York style. I might want to talk to that young girl with glitter on her face except close up I see she has crusts of coke at the edges of her nostrils. Those two fat losers from New Jersey across the way interest me not because I saw them at Plato's last night and he couldn't get it up. All these characters are shallow including Mr. Big, but so what, they are all New Yorkers true blue and lost. They're on the fringe, sexually and in life. Not the kind of people I would want to dine with, but interesting, even fun, to read about. Wait a second, the rangy puppyish brunette (the one with the glazed eyes) sitting next to me tells me she just spent 400 dollars on a pair on Manolo Blahnik strappy sandals and that when it comes to sex there is no place like home. &quot;If I had an affair with you, I wouldn't want a one-night stand,&quot; says her large red-lipsticked mouth in a little girl voice. My rejoinder: &quot;Waiter, two shots of tequila, please. One for the lady.&quot;	2001-06-22
US	53013507	R3VLNV381AOI33	0375407707	185430326	The Elementary Particles	Books	5	21	24	N	Y	A celebration to current humanity that eliminated death	The prologue explains what the book is about and the epilogue confirms it: It is a celebration of current humanity (circa 2050) that had enough sense to genetically engineer itself out of existence and to leave in its place an all female, genetically enhanced, immortal, asexual, superspecies. The scientific foundation for this startling transformation came from Michel, one of the two half brothers who are the central, though uninteresting, unsympathetic, pathetic, characters of the book. I almost wrote novel, which would have been wrong. It is not a novel in the sense of a story with a beginning, middle, and end, rising action, conflicts that are resolved etc. Instead, it is more like a research report on the history of the biological revolution that abolished death. It may not be a novel, but it is literature, a new type of literature packed with ideas and imagination and accurately describilng a certain set of contemporary French people who are truly pitiable. Elementary particles has been a best seller in France and has been the biggest literary sensation there since Francoise Sagan's Bonjour Tristesse. Defects: the sex is mechanical and tired, the look at modern society too harsh, and the plot too crammed with whatever Houellebecq had researched. The main defect is the main asset, Dostoevsky's invariable flaw, tendentiousness, for that is what has provoked the controversies. Contrasted with the realities of modern life, however, in these dog days, the story is as tame as a holiday postcard. Read it to get a feeling for the current ennui that afflicts the French, whose same problems are also spelled out in detail and with pretty much the same estrogenized solution by Valery Giscard d'Estaiang, former President of the Republic, in his essay entitled Les Francais, reflexions sur le destin d'un peuple.	2001-06-19
US	53013507	R1LXYP7Q5NR2C2	189310821X	405056385	Investment Pearls for Modern Times	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Smart Investing starts with a state of mind	Tired of the tech wreck? The Stock Market Poet has some advice: Stay cool, Buy if you can, Hold if you can't and ride the bull through Two Thousand Two. When you know how to think, and when to react, you'll be on your way to stock market profits. Each poem in Investment Pearls is followed by extensive insight in prose. The information is easy to understand and use. The investment strategy tips follow a logical pattern, are well thought out, and are couched in language that ANYONE can get. Well worth the price and fun too!	2001-03-30
US	53013507	R27HAJJ5P0VS74	0060931418	624509678	Their Eyes Were Watching God	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Her best book. Probably one of the best books of all time	This is one of the best books that I have read - and that encompasses a lot of books. I see it as a travel novel where someone (Janie) goes on a trip and along the way discovers something, in this case she discovers herself. It takes three husbands and lots of suffering, but Janie does discover herself and in discovering herself she also discovers love. It's not an easy life with Tea Cake. He's not perfect. His flaw, a fatal one it turns out, is that he gets jealous. But the relation Tea Cake-Janie is based on equality. Janie can and does grow there. Hurston speaks to us about these issues with multiple authorities: That of her personal experience as a black woman, that of an anthropologist and folklorist and that of an excellent modern and post modern novelist who grew up in Eatonville, the venue of her book. Yes, she got a degree from Barnard in anthropology studying under and with the famous Boas. Yes, she did original research, real research, and wrote papers on blacks from the point of view of a folklorist, and yes, she is a great novelist with remarkable range and control of language. What more do you want? Under attack from the black literary establishment because of her realistic and mostly unfavorable depictions of black men and the southern black community, she became obscure and died penniless and alone. Alice Walker, almost single handedly, rediscovered her and now she (Huston) is almost as well regarded in literary circles as she had been during the height of her career. Read this, her best book. Find out why.	2001-03-09
US	53013507	R3AD54FUE9RJHC	0671025570	669001158	Duane's Depressed (Last Picture Show Trilogy)	Books	3	4	11	N	Y	It's hard to write a deep book about a shallow character	Duane's sixty-two. Unhappy too. He was not educated. He can't speak a foreign language. He has not traveled. He knows nothing of the great cities of the world. He has never visited a great museum, seen a great picture, or heard a great symphony. The only book he has ever finished is Lonesome Dove. In short, he doesn't know much. One thing he does know: He doesn't want to live a single day more as he had been living, nose to the grind stone, driving around in his pickup and going through the motions of running his oil patch business that had long since ceased to interest him. No one, including Karla his long-suffering wife, has a clue about his real feelings. So when Duane stops driving and starts walking that is an earthquake. Fiction like this concerned with the marginalization of men and about masculine problems is much needed in our estrogenized world. But says Nina of page 477, &quot;Is it wrong to ask for a little precision?&quot; I listed multiple artistic quia imperfectum and 17 inconsistencies in the narrative including errors in time sequencing (Unabomber was caught in 1996 way before not after Princess Di died), character profile (Duane is a slow reader until page 414 when he recalls he is a speed reader (Read Time in 45 seconds) because he took the Evelyn Woods course), and fact (you can't shoot off your little toe and expect to have a piece recoverable for reattachment, Cairo is not on the Mediterranean Sea, people awake from nightmares realizing the dream was not real not the other way around etc.). Oh well, it's hard to write a deep book about a shallow character. Duane's interior life looks like the cab of his pickup, empty space. Don't let that happen to you. By the way, turn the cover on the side rotating it counterclockwise and you'll wee where Duane lives, a country as desolate as his soul.	2001-03-04
US	53013507	R3G8CZRWVMSBGY	0385315600	570090934	How Late It Was, How Late	Books	5	33	38	N	Y	It's not too late to read a great book	&quot;No frigate like a book to take us lands away,&quot; said Emily Dickinson. Oh my, she's right. There are other worlds out there, lots of them. Kelman's book takes us to one, a unique one, right in the middle of Glasgow, in fact in the outer limits of consciousness somewhere - in the mind of a low-life petty thief named Sammy who stupidly assaulted two policemen and got beaten so badly by them that he is blinded. After that, everything in this book is generated, more or less, in Sammy's head as interior monologue (not stream of consciousness as others say) or by the speech of the characters Sammy deals with. Those characters do plenty of talking with an extremely limited vocabulary that nevertheless has an amazing expressive range proving, again, that Scotland is a nation of talkers, great talkers. It is also a welfare state with lots of red tape and institutionalized dullness. So much so that Sammy's difficulties with the DSS Central Medical board and with the DSS in general call into question the Scottish I.Q. and raise the query that they might have there some institutional madness as serious as that discussed in Bleak House. Some advice: Donay be turned off by ye Scottish dialect. Read the first three pages aloud. Aw fine. Aye, they make sense. Ah stories, man, stories, life's full of stories, there to help ye out. Aye right pal okay.	2001-03-02
US	53013507	R1SRX3YULSUIYP	0375701427	79852712	American Pastoral: American Trilogy (1) (Vintage International)	Books	1	15	34	N	Y	This is a Cold Pastoral not an American Pastoral	A pastoral is an urban fiction celebrating bucolic life in the countryside. As such, this book appears misnamed. If irony is intended then the title might have better been Cold Pastoral following Keats. For that's where this book leaves me: Cold. I confess I like a book that reaches some sort of moral, esthetic, or logical conclusion; that has a beginning, middle, and end, and that is not over written, pretentious, self-conscious, and repetitive. And so I don't like AP. As a writer, I always was taught that Backstory should be in the mind of the writer not in his book. And I was taught that you don't tell the reader about all that research you did to find out how they made gloves in the old days, or what the Miss America thing is all about, or why the Jains wear those silly veils. Each time Roth goes off into such detail I hear the index cards rustling in the background. I shouldn't hear those cards, because the information should have been seamlessly woven into the narrative. Nathan Zuckerman and Philip Roth (narrator and author of AP) are not necessarily the same person any more than art must necessarily duplicate life, but it is interesting that Zuckerman and Roth both were born and raised in middle class Jewish households in Newark, N.J. Both are successul white Jewish male writers writing for over forty years on what it was like to grow up in Newark in a middle class Jewish family. Both like to make the Jews, especially Jewish men, look bad. Both Z and R (I am not making this up) graduated from Weequahic High School, where during a reunion, Zuckerman (and probably Roth) decided to make up a story about the High School sports hero, the Swede. Just as dreams reflect the psychology of the dreamer, the story must reflect the psychology of the maker. Not a very good psychology it is: Filled with buried resentment, jealousy, and rage and overburdened with some pretty fantastic subplots and multiple characters from central casting. You will do better spending your time reading something else.e reading something else.	2001-03-01
US	53013507	R36M7394CN43GM	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A Great Classic	Gatsby is one of those novels that I love to come back to and reread. It's really a writers' textbook that teaches by example how to extend, invent, and use language in new and effective ways. For it's a rare book that gets this amount of meaning into a sentence and it's a rare book that has the dimensions and extraordinary intensity of impression that its paragraphs carry. Scenes blaze with life and it all goes by so fast I always end up with the feeling that I have finished a short story not a book. In Gatsby Fitzgerald is more in command and control than he is in all his other novels put together including The Last Tycoon, Tender is the Night, The Beautiful and the Damned, and This Side of Paradise. Gatsby is a novel with few false moves, a simple story and a simple plot. One might say almost perfect in structural simplicity, but the meanings are complex creating the suggestion that there is more, much more, under the surface, which incidentally there is. Part of the subtext is brought out by rich symbolism. Who will ever forget the weird eyes of T.J. Eckleburg looking over the wasteland of ash and what that means? Who will ever forget the green light at the end of Daisy's dock and what that means? If you haven't read this classic of twentieth-century literature, please read it. If you have read it, you might profit by going back after you have matured some more and rereading.	2001-02-23
US	53013507	R1ZFT10J9959TK	0848800524	85669454	World of Suzie Wong	Books	5	27	29	N	N	There is no substitute for great literature	It's 44 years since Richard Mason's classic story made its entrance. Mason is still alive, living in Rome. Would he recognize Hong Kong? I doubt it. Today little remains of Mason's British Colony, the old Hong Kong, inhabited back in 1957 by Suzie, the pretty Wan Chai bar girl. Back in the 1950's Hong Kong was a small sleepy town. Traffic, if you believe Mason, as I do, was minimal and there were no back alleys with neon signs or red taxis charging exorbitant fares. The barefoot rickshaw drivers in harness to their two wheeled carts ran their cargoes of humans around town the hard way. Now the one driver left spends his time posing for tourist pictures and charging five Hong Kong dollars a shot. In Wan Chai the trams that Suzie took still work their way through the jammed streets that have their share of smoke filled pick up bars. One even bears the name Suzie Wong in honor of the character. The bars remain here but the girls are not Chinese. The girls come in from Burma, Thailand, Cambodia and the Philippines. The old business of &quot;No money, no talk&quot; still holds, but the prices have gone up. The hostesses of modern times don't even know Suzie nor have they read the book. But they too would cheer her story, the way the hostesses of the 50's did, championing Suzie's cause to become &quot;a respectable girl.&quot; The book was followed in 1958 by a succssful stage play that ran for two years on Broadway starring France Nuyen as Suzie and none other than Star Trek's William Shatner as Robert Lomax. In 1960 a popular film version was released starring Nancy Kwan and William Holden. In a way, the Suzie Wong story helped bring Hong Kong before the world's gaze and played a part in the popular recognition of the territory and in that way contributed to its development. If you want to have some fun, read the book and compare it to the film. You'll learn (again) that there is no substitute for literature, especially great literature created by a great writer.	2001-01-22
US	53013507	R2DBXMWP97AL8U	1893108686	306129237	The Romance of Tristan and Iseult: the Modern Version	Books	5	0	2	N	Y	Funny and Interesting - Just What the Doctor Ordered	This is one of the most interesting books I have seen in recent times. Although the story is supposed to take place in sixth century Cornwall the problems presented are surprisingly modern. Poor Queen Blanchefleur can't get decent medical care for her myasthenia gravis because her HMO, the Mount Aetna Insurance Company of Numerica, is acting like the horse's a** it is. Once you pick this book up you will have trouble putting it down unless you drop it because you have been laughing so hard.	2001-01-21
US	53013507	R1X5UZ0WPUHWOQ	1558853014	834443761	How to Undress a Cop: Poems	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Undress them they way you feel like undressing them	A close reading of the poems themselves shows that the poet is trying to conceal her shy and diffident personality by a kind of bravura that we might expect from a man. The result is an argument contrary to fact as well as a work of art. That said, I must admit that my respect for a work of art depends on my affection for it. In terms of form, tone, brevity, humor, sheer cleverness, beauty, wit, and efficiency, I like (there is no other word) Sarah's poems. They are easy to read and easy to understand and represent ultra modern compressed pellets of easily assimilated emotion. Any conceits? Her shadow metaphor is a conceit, but since the cops think that way, it's O.K. I know. My father was a cop. So were two of my uncles.	2000-12-20
US	53013507	R2QYS06XSAAIN6	0134023390	699224456	How to Be Twice as Smart: Boosting Your Brainpower and Unleashing the Miracles of Your Mind	Books	5	28	31	N	Y	It didn't make me twice as smart but I sure look that way	Wow! I bought this book as a lark thinking it might give me some laughs. Instead I can state with certainty that, although it didn't make me twice as smart, it did make me look twice as smart, probably smarter. Particularly good was the advice on intelligent listening. I knew there were covert messages to everything that was said but I didn't know how to decode those messages and use them to my advantage especially in negotiations. The mental math Witt gives us has helped me look like a genius before my students and I now add, subtract, and multiple in my head faster than they can using a calculator. The reason this book is so effective, besides the clear intelligent style of the writing, is that nobody functions at a level anywhere near his or her mental capacity. If you can increase that capacity by a factor of two, you have to outperform the competition.	2000-12-18
US	53013507	R9XG0KD62SNM3	0674576225	986198638	The Mind of a Mnemonist: A Little Book about a Vast Memory	Books	5	17	32	N	Y	S. Used the Ancient Art of Memory	In 1969, I first read this little book about a vast memory when I was the memory fellow at the Neurological Institute of New York. I read it again today. Both times I had the feeling that Luria actually did not know of the Ancient Art of Memory and was unfamiliar with the techniques and the history of the visual mnemonics that underlie the memory skills demonstrated by subject S. Else how could Luria think that S.'s visual mnemonic skills were particular to him and worthy of such careful detailed study? Any veteran of multiple courses on memory including that given by Harry Lorayne will immediately recognize the methods and the power of the systems discussed in this book. The visual images that work the best are large, colored, unusual, in motion, violent, and linked to material already known. That's how S. did it and that's how you can do it too. Want to be a memory genius? This book is a good start.	2000-12-17
US	53013507	R2DYLKH13CE1MB	0071357548	655141869	24 Essential Lessons for Investment Success: Learn the Most Important Investment Techniques from the Founder of Investor's Business Daily	Books	2	18	24	N	Y	Too Much Advertisement for Investor's Business Daily	There is an old Chinese motto that who opens scroll always profits. The same applies to books and you usually can't go wrong reading any one of them. O'Neil's book is no exception and there is lots in it especially for the beginning investor. Perhaps that's why the crass commercialism in favor of IBD hurts so much. Also disturbing are the frequent errors in logic that include begging the question (buy a stock that will go up), false analogy (the stock market is a battlefield), and over generalization (cut losses when your stock falls 8% from where you bought it). On the other hand I like the ideas that paper trading does not cut it: does not give you the real experience of being in the market and I certainly agree that you should sell your worst performing stocks first otherwise you will end up with a portfolio of dogs. All in all, though, you will be better off reading Peter Lynch's books, which have more intelligent advice more clearly expressed minus any commercial pitch.	2000-12-16
US	53013507	R3U5GQ0KF4IV6M	0449219771	679377355	The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich	Books	5	4	7	N	Y	Society is Controlled Violence	Nazi Germany fell so swiftly in the spring of 1945, the Third Reich had to surrender the minutely detailed records of the regime before those documents could be destroyed. This capture involved most of the archives of the German government and all its branches including Heinrich Himmler's secret police. Never before has such a vast treasure fallen into the hands of historians. Particularly interesting were the records of the &quot;Fuehrer Conferences&quot; on the daily military situation, the Nazi warlord's table talk with his party cronies, and his deliberate deceptions (international, national, and personal), all of which prove that he and his followers were criminals. How these criminals got to power and how they stayed there was no accident. It involved the social psychology of our species, the tendency of all of us to follow the herd even when the herd is going over a cliff. The lessons are clear and the truth of George Washington's advice is even clearer: &quot;Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty.&quot; Yes, society is controlled violence. The reason we sleep well at night, one of the reasons anyway, is that the cops have guns. This book proves that what counts is who does the controlling. Who do you want? George Washington or George III? FDR or Joe Stalin? Harry Truman or Hitler? As for me, give me our bumbling politicians every time. They mean well and they won't foul up the universe. So please make it your new year's resolution to read Shirer's definitive work on Nazi Germany, a book that tells one of the most spectacular stories ever, a masterful vivid account of depressing and grim political, social, economic, and military violence. Once you start its 1500+ pages you will have trouble putting it down. And when you do put it down, you will pick it up again just as soon as you can.	2000-12-15
US	53013507	R1YV5AYSXXLCDJ	0684869020	250808166	The Wall Street Journal Guide to Understanding Money and Investing	Books	5	10	14	N	Y	Buy this as a gift for your investment friends	You can tell Columbia University people, but you can't tell them much. Virginia Morris and her husband Kenneth have producted a remarkable little book of compressed information about one of our favorite topics: Money. There wasn't much in this that I didn't know and therefore I suggest it for those who need some refreshing on investment basics. If you still don't know the difference between M1 and M3, if you can't off the top of your head tell what a put is versus a call, if you can't say the exact differences between a bond, note, bill, and strip, then this is the compressed modern pellet of information that you need.	2000-12-15
US	53013507	R2GX8IGXAVAL2M	0312971923	779605463	Crossroad Blues (Nick Travers)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Someone Goes On a Trip	Some people say there are only two types of stories: A new kid comes to town and someone goes on a trip. Crossroad Blues belongs in the later class because Nick Travers travels around New Orleans and the delta in search for a missing colleague. It's not as interesting as the chase for an albino whale. But then again what is? Along the way, we readers learn lots about he history of the Blues and the mysterious disappearance of one of the blues greats, Robert Johnson. Hard core to the core, situated in a typical decaying and corrupt urban setting, Crossroad Blues takes us to the other side of the railroad tracks where men and women are rough, nihilistic, and very very tough. The author,like most hard boil authors, does at every opportunity seem to want to rub our noses in the you know what. In Hard Boiled the main character does (predictably) have relationship problems. Nick is no exception. But in his case the relationship appears stylized, artificial, and tacked on. Unfortunately, the book is not balanced in other respects. After it hit us over the head a number of times, it lets us down at the end. And most annoying are the several plot defects that surface, especially the coincidental meetings of important characters at just the right times. Poor editing is another problem: rough edges should have been caught and repaired. All in all, though, for a first novel, it's quite entertaining. In fact, not bad. Ace Atkins, shows promise, and will probably, as he matures become one of our best hard boilers.	2000-11-19
US	53013507	R3VJNJO8LKPT7O	0870341367	587031375	The Proof of the Pudding: (What Has Worked for Us) a Three-Way Approach to Successful Long-Term Investing (The Contrary Opinion Library)	Books	1	4	5	N	Y	Some books are to be chewed and digested other tossed	The back cover of this book-like-object tells us that this is a book that will inform us on &quot;How we did it.&quot; Unfortunately, the book itself fails to deliver that information. After reading it twice, I still don't know what they did, how they did it, or if they did anything at all. Did the author make real money? How much and when? Errors abound in this little tome. Some are trivial like the one about Alaric being a Goth (he was a Visigoth), the Swiss Franc is 140.6 to the dollar (impossible!), CoIogne Re is a reinsurer (it's Cologne Re) etc. Other errors are more serious especially the emphasis on value investing. Logic proves that value investing suffers from two errors: begging the question and vague definition. Which is more valuable? Philip Morris which is going nowhere or Microsoft? The text of this book runs only 69 pages and after that there is filler with previously published letters from Warren Buffet and others attached as Appendices 1,2 &amp; 3. Appendix 3 looks like an ad for Tweedy, Browne and its form of so called value investing. There are several pages of explanation of why Tweedy underperformed the market and the main reason seems to be that they bought and held the wrong stocks at the wrong time. They don't like technology because they don't understand it and, boy have they suffered for that ignorance. Too bad their holdings are in Swiss Francs and must have lost over 40% of their value because of the strength of the dollar. I could go on about the stale jokes, the misprints, the irritating repetitions, the lack of an index, but why bother? Some books were meant to be chewed and digested, some were meant to be tossed.	2000-09-21
US	53013507	R3R2AABQBAESVL	0375724621	190367208	UP at the Villa	Books	4	12	20	N	Y	The Book is Good, the Movie is Better	Quick and enjoyable, transparent and straight forward, this romantic thriller is worth a read on a quiet night when you haven't much to do and don't feel like thinking too much. The film, for the most part true to the  story, was more interesting and more complex. Incidentally, some of the  reviewers above got things wrong. The main character who takes a fling is  Mary Panton not Mary Leonard. The Leonards lent Mary Panton their villa.  The stranger is not a stranger but someone she met before at a nice  restaurant on the banks of the Arno. His name incidentally is not Kurt but  Karl. He is not a refugee of war but a member of the Austrian underground  who escaped to Italy. Karl was the son of Schuschnigg who had become  Austrian Chancellor and favored the restoration of the Archduke Otto. The  father shot himself through the heart when the Nazi troops marched into  Austria. That act is what gave the kid the idea to do the same and played a  key role in establishing plot point one.	2000-07-24
US	53013507	R2YZ27WUEGW7N5	0451165209	137132039	The Richest Man in Babylon	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Key Advice for those who need it	Sound advice delivered in a clear and simple style must be serving a need because this classic has sold over 2 million copies. I read it in an hour and you can too. Perhaps the people who would benefit the most are those  afflicted by those terrible credit card debts. Clason has a workable system  of getting out of debt and onto the gravy train. All you need is to learn  the system and have the guts to make it work for you. Incidentally, I see  some people think the advice and stories told here actuallly came from  ancient texts uncovered in Babylon (al Hillah in Iraq). Nope, the advice  comes from Clason himself and has been made more interesting by his  literary device.	2000-07-21
US	53013507	R1Y0XRSODXAALD	0871131994	142387457	The Ginger Man	Books	2	7	18	N	Y	Not Exactly a Waste of Time, But Pretty Close	Here we have what has been billed as a comic masterpiece that by my standards just doesn't seem funny. Perhaps my problem is that I went to medical school and trained in psychiatry and consequently can spot a no  good psychopath when I see one. Yep, That's what Dangerfield really is and  his recurrent pattern of abnormal behavior, his lack of guilt, and his  failure to love anyone (even himself) prove it. Spend your precious time  reading something else instead. About about The Magnificient Ambersons  which came in one behind Ginger Man on the list of the 100 best novels of  the 20th century, but happens to be 100 times better.	2000-07-17
US	53013507	R3QW4G8U1TW7J8	1582451095	366532738	The Pocket Idiot's Guide to Betting on Horses	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	The Information Junkie's Guide to Horseracing	I always wondered if these idiot books are really intended for idiots or for someone else. Now I know that, if the series can be judged from this one small part, the title is meant ironically and facetiously. But an even  better title would be Information Junkie's Introduction to Horseracing,  which, incidentally, describes this little tome exactly. Packed with facts  and authoritative guidance to betting on the nags, this work summarizes in  a compressed modern pellet that large gaseous cloud of legend and fokelore  that surrounds the sport of kings. So if you don't know the difference  between a thoroughbred and a quarter horse, if you can't tell exactly how  an exacta differs from a quinella, if you think eight furlongs is longer  than a mile, then this is the book for you. Betting systems are adequately  described and the novice should come away with an idea or two on how to  work their own box or wheel, or progress the bets, or even go dutch. The  only section I had trouble with was about reading the racing form. Whole  books could be done on that subject, but even the small amount presented  here was unclear and occasionally misleading. Some benign editor who didn't  know much probably corrected some of the author's post positions to past  positions especially when we are told past position is important and  usually coming out close to the rail is an advantage. Also not quite up to  the high quality of the rest of the book is the section on drugs. The  author might profit by reading about the pharmacology of Lasix. And cocaine  is not found in horse urine. If it is found in a post race urine, it simply  means that the groom or the stableboy assigned to get the sample became  impatient and peed in the cup himself. Such samples usually also have lots  of nicotine and caffeine and always have a sky high chloride content that  identifies with silver nitrate testing that the urine in question is of  human and not horse origin. In the world of horses the big worry about  what's stuffed up the nose is not cocaine: It's a sponge to block the  favorite's breathing.bout  what's stuffed up the nose is not cocaine: It's a sponge to block the  favorite's breathing.	2000-07-16
US	53013507	R3IA3X94R71PC9	0375752501	841170407	The Magnificent Ambersons (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Classics don't die, nor do they fade away	Into your repertoir of books that make you a literate person you should consider including this one by Booth Tarkington. I read it because of my project to read each of the modern library best 100 fiction books of the  20th century and found it extremely underrated at number 100. For story  content, rich landscape, interesting plot structure, dynamic dialog, true  depictions of historic events, and memorable characters, this masterpiece  would be hard to beat. Read it and see if you don't agree.	2000-06-11
US	53013507	R14ZUUUZPP7JZT	0441478123	101055477	The Left Hand of Darkness	Books	5	6	10	N	Y	Truth is a Matter of the Imagination	When we are finally done reading a novel, especially a good one, we may find that we are a bit different from what we were before we read it, that we have been changed a little, as if by having met new people, crossed  different streets, or visited strange lands. But it's hard to say just what  we learned, or how we changed because real art, not that specious imitation  so prevalent these days, deals with what can not be fully expressed in  words. And so, I who usually have no trouble finding the words, stand  rather speechless after reading this great classic of science fiction  literature, the winner of the Hugo and Nebular awards, that taught me,  rather by demonstration of feelings than by telling, that the truth is a  matter of the imagination. When you have finished reading this work, I  therefore predict, you will be permanently changed, that you will have a  new insight into the nature of culture, love, exact and vivid myth and  saga, and that you will have acquired a new vocabulary which will now  include kemmering, kadik-germ, and gicky-michy. Nowhere else have I  recently experience this tremendously fruitful power of answering well that  question that most writers ask as they approach the extended narrative that  is the novel: What if?	2000-06-11
US	53013507	R31I241ZZ4FQ3A	0671891634	888454147	Beating the Street	Books	5	59	72	N	Y	If you lust for stocks and lust for money, Lynch will help	My profession is writing, but my business is investing. With over 50 years of experience in the stock market and having made millions, I think I know what's up. Not only is this book definitive on stock picking, it is also  fun and easy to read and the author's humanity comes right through. And the  core message that you can do better than the fund managers (for a variety  of reasons) is, from my own experience, true. Try Lynch's system: What  worked for him, might work for you. Oh yes, by the way, this book is mainly  a repeat and better version of his previous work and represents a more  masterful and confident telling of the ways to beat the street.	2000-06-11
US	53013507	R2ZTE8W5Y4EC62	0446520942	234309172	Selling the Invisible: A Field Guide to Modern Marketing	Books	1	34	66	N	Y	Why Waste Time Reading Trash?	Long years ago I had lunch with a man who worked forDisney. His job was to devise the rides that the public takes atDisney World and Disney Land.  The key feature of these rides, according to him, was to show the public what they already know. That makes the ride enjoyable because there is no strain on their brains and they get flattered by thinking that they are so so smart. Selling the Invisible struck me as in the same class of entertainments, cleverly designed to pander to the public's low brow tastes and, incidentally, sell books. The style is simple and unschooled. The chapters and paragraphs telegraphic and multiple mistakes abound. For instance, we are told on page 175 that a story beats a dozen adjectives. In fact telling stories is &quot;so pervasive(sic)there is a name for it: synecdoche.&quot; I think the author might have meant persuasive instead of pervasive, but I am sure he is grobing for anecdote instead of synedoche.  And, further, I am willing to bet he has no idea what synecdoche actually is. Ho hum, I guess I am from the old school that believes that authors should know what they are talking about.	2000-05-31
US	53013507	R1HYKVG9O0OQYR	0252062345	794719593	Chicago Poems (Prairie State Books)	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	Hey There You Out There, Read This	A recent death in the family prompted me to examine my life to see what I should be doing differently. The answer, one of them anyway, was I should be reading more poetry. So I got this little gem of a book from Amazon and  read it through. Carl Sandburg was a master and one of the old time  American poets who spoke simply and directly so that each of us could  clearly understand. Fog is a typical example: The fog comes in on little  cat feet. It sits looking over harbor and city on silent haunches and then  moves on. Wow! If that sounds like great writing it is because it is. I  wish I could write a poem like that and I wish Chicago Poems would out sell  my own poem book because it has so much more to offer.	2000-05-31
US	53013507	R2CSWQP1WGRWFO	0553375407	350438534	Ishmael:A Novel	Books	1	12	26	N	N	Fake Analysis of Evolutionary History We Don't Need	Ishmael won the Turner Tomorrow prize and the five thousand dollars that goes with that award. It is part of a literature I call civilization bashing. Fond tradition pictures the planes and mountains of this planet as  a nature untouched by humans, a sort of original realm of the wild,  undisturbed and eternal. Abandon that vision because it ain't so. Even if  it were so, you wouldn't want to live there. Mankind has always been a  major player in the recent history of Earth whether Ishmael the talking  gorilla thinks so or not. What a better way for the pop-cult eggheads like  Quinn, and the other self appointed satraps to earn their livings than by  pointing out for us the early warning signs of the death of civilization  and by constructing a fake analysis of evolutionary history and its  direction. Man isn't entitled to control this planet because God wills it.  Man is entitled to control the planet because he can. This has nothing to  do with simplistic dualities of takers and leavers, as Quinn may believe,  but with the natural law of struggle for survival, and the survival of the  fit. Nevertheless, this book is worth a look, despite its exaggeration and  extrapolation, because it encourages us to think about the larger issues  that affect our future. For instance, the destruction of acres of rain  forest is miniscule compared to the vast destruction wrought by suburban  sprawl. Ishmael teaches us that grim lesson and much much more.	2000-05-29
US	53013507	R2EZ72E9Y9VXLA	0345342968	383457570	Fahrenheit 451	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	This is the future - Make sure it doesn't happen here	451 degrees Fahrenheit is the temperature at which book paper catches fire and burns. If you have not read this book, now a cult classic, you wouldn't know that fact. Nor would you know that in Ray Bradbury's world of the  future people don't say anything because they don't know anything. And they  don't know anything because they don't have books. At first books were  leveled down to a sort of pastepudding norm by cuts that made them shorter,  producing condensations and digests. Classics were cut to fill a two-column  single page, winding up at last as a ten-line summary. Then books were  outlawed. Discipline relaxes. History becomes neglected. English is  dropped. Life becomes immediate. Why learn anything save pressing buttons,  pulling switches, fitting nuts and bolts? The amazing thing is that  Bradbury predicted that censorship would start with the minorities  objecting to the way they were depicted. Blacks, Baptists, Dog Lovers etc.  waanted strict enforcement of anti-book laws and the burning of all books  followed. Someone has written a book on tobacco and lung cancer? The  cigarette people are weeping? Burn the book. The smokers are distressed?  Burn the book. A book, any book creates problems. You don't have to face  those problems. Just burn the book. The point is obvious. The world is full  of people running about with lit matches. Every minority feels it has the  will, the right, the duty, to douse the kerosene, like Montag, the  protagonist of this novel, and light the fuse. But you know there are more  ways than burning to destroy a book. Every dimwit editor could slenderize,  starve, bluepencil, leech, and bleed white any book and make any author  sound like Edgar Guest. Frightening in its implications, 451, this insane  world, which bears many alarming reseemblances to our own, is required  reading for all lovers of books. Incidentally, the proof that Bradbury's  esthetic vision was not far off the mark was that he discovered, years  after 451 was published, that cubby-hole editors at Ballantine, fearful of  contaminating the young, had, bit by bit, censored some 75 separate  sections from the novel. Alert students reading those editions told the  author about this exquisite irony. The original story is now available  thanks to Judy Lynn Del Rey.published, that cubby-hole editors at Ballantine, fearful of  contaminating the young, had, bit by bit, censored some 75 separate  sections from the novel. Alert students reading those editions told the  author about this exquisite irony. The original story is now available  thanks to Judy Lynn Del Rey.	2000-05-27
US	53013507	R111ZI4IZFL24D	0465014909	962096979	The Culture of Fear: Why Americans Are Afraid of the Wrong Things	Books	2	11	19	N	Y	It's 1938 All Over Again	In 1938 Orson Well's adaptation of War of the Worlds generated a tidal wave of terror that swept the nation. The scare was short lived. Now we have the same thing except we get it every day in the form of the  &quot;Fear du Jour,&quot; an unending barrage of pseudoshocking realities  that we see on TV. Not only do the fear mongers waste our precious time,  they also knock the optimism out of all of us by stuffing us full of  negative presumptions about our fellow citizens, social institutions, and  personal safety. Billions of dollars is wasted on pseudo problems and  largely mythical hazards like road rage etc. The author however might  reread his book and profit from his lessons. Guns are not the cause of  violence any more than ovens caused the deaths of 6 million Jews. To focus  on guns is to focus away from the real causes onto something fake. The real  causes are complex and involve poverty, fear, ignorance, personal neglect,  social neglect etc. Things we don't like to address or talk about. Better  books on this same subject are Pseudoevents in America, The Death of Common  Sense, and How the News Makes Us Dumb. To help you figure out when the  media is lying I recommend books that cover elementary logic: The Art of  Persuasion by Linda Bridges and William Rickenbacker and The Art of  Argument by Giles St. Aubyn.	2000-05-18
US	53013507	R1YOVXEATXXSUE	0834210983	186712107	The Successful Physician: A Productivity Handbook for Practitioners	Books	5	41	44	N	N	A Writing Style that Doesn't Cause Nausea	How wonderful to read a physician who has a writing style that doesn't cause nausea, retching, or confusion. My wife, also a physician in a by-gone era, and I laughed and laughed and laughed at this psychiatrist's  insights into what is wrong with doctors. I particularly liked the concept  of NIH (not invented here) because I was the Assistant Chief of Medical  Neurology at NIH (The National Institutes of Health) and knew exactly what  the author meant. If a certain group didn't think of a great idea first  they would have nothing to do with it. The main trouble with most doctors  is, of course, that they went to medical school. There they learned to do  what they were told and not spend much time thinking about it.  Consequently, they have become the easy prey of business interests whose  general effect has been to transform and some say injure the profession by  telling Doctors what to do. Doctor Zaslove's little gem of a book has the  way out of this embattled situation for those physicians smart enough to  read and take its advice to heart.	2000-05-17
US	53013507	R2OT1ND9N6PKJ8	0140434968	976358997	Bleak House	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The Great Principle of English Law: Make Business	The one great priciple of English Law according to Dickens is to make business for itself. There is no other principle distinctly, certainly, and consistently maintained through all its narrow turnings. Only when viewed  by this light does the legal system become a coherent scheme, and not the  monstrous maze we are apt to think it. Let the public clearly perceive that  its grand principle (Dickens says), &quot;is to make business for itself at  their expense, and surely they will cease to grumble.&quot; Obtaining a  decision in Court was likely to be frustratingly slow and expensive as  Dickens discovered in 1844 when he launched suits against five piratical  publishers for breach of copyright. As he complained in a letter, &quot;I  was really treated as if I were the robber instead of the robbed.&quot;  Although Dickens won the suit, it cost him more than any damages he was  able to collect and he resolved never again to become involved in dealing  with Chancery, remarking bitterly in 1846 that &quot;it is better to suffer  a great wrong than to have recourse to the much greater wrong of the  law.&quot; Ultimately, he got his revenge, as writers often do, by  publishing in 1852, Bleak House, his novel, about, among other things, the  law's delay, and the human consequences thereof. The story evolves around  the case of Jarndyce and Jarndyce, a law suit which in the course of time  became so complicated that no man alive knew what it meant. The parties to  it understood it least and the only way it could end, it did end: consumed  in costs. Along the way to this pitiable end, the reader gets to know some  wonderful characters who do amazing and interesting things, in an  authentically described landscape of a polluted nineteenth century London.  If you haven't experienced this great classic yet, I advise you to do so.  You are in for a great treat.	2000-05-15
US	53013507	RPR6JZX6FR1WI	0830822038	123309549	How the News Makes Us Dumb: The Death of Wisdom in an Information Society	Books	5	31	34	N	Y	Don't Be a News Junky - Kick the Habit Now	How can you know for sure that they are not telling you the truth? That is the question answered by this little gem of a book. We have all known that if you watch TV you are wasting your time for TV is junk food for the mind  - mental material of no intellectual or lasting value. In fact, studies  have shown that while watching TV all the great powers of the human mind  are quiescent. The sadder part about this is that TV prevents us from using  that time for better purposes such as sleeping or reading or, should I even  mention it in this hyped up era, for thinking. Lost opportunities to learn  and think eventually take their toll and make us dumb. The same holds true  for reading the newspapers. The paucity of wit and wisdom in the news is no  accident, as Professor Sommerville so well knows. It is by design. And the  design is to sell more newspapers and their glitz bag counterparts,  magazines. The design is to make us information junkies and overdose us on  trivia. Fortunately, the solution to this gigantic problem might be close  at hand. Read his book and discover for yourself what that solution is.	2000-05-15
US	53013507	R28PCLRVNWC6F0	0385484518	725864791	Tuesdays with Morrie: An Old Man, A Young Man and Life's Greatest Lesson	Books	1	17	33	N	N	Death Lite	Morrie went on Nightline, not once, not twice, but three times to tell millions of viewers that dying wasn't all that bad. &quot;How bad is it?&quot; asks Ted Koppel on the last show. Morrie tries to lift his arm  which promptly collapses back. It's like those old Roman gladiatorial games  where the crowd watches someone die and enjoys the thrill. Not only is that  fake emoition, it is also disgusting. But fake emotions abound in this book  which was carefully crafted to touch the fuzzy-feelies of the popular mind.  Morrie is so nice even when dying that he isn't real He is a fictional  character cleaned up and polished to look sweeter and better than humans  really do. But all that is neither here nor there compared to the main fake  message which is: &quot;Once you learn to die, you learn how to live.&quot;  Wow! That has a kind of catchy affected poetic asymmetry to it. Let's  think. Is it true? Does it make sense? In this otherwise fake book, there  is one true thing. It's on page 116 where Morrie says, &quot;And you know  what? The strangest thing. I began to enjoy my dependency. Now I enjoy when  they turn me over on my side and rub cream on my behind... I revel in it. I  close my eyes and soak it up.&quot; Yup, that's the truth right there,  Morrie's truth, and a none-too-pleasant truth at that. But it's just part  of an even more macabre truth: Morrie liked dying. No change that. He  reveled in the process, and delighted in the TV celebrity he got from it.  Too bad he never got to see his literary success too. It turns out dying  has a terrible price attached to it. It puts you out of touch and is so, so  permanent.	2000-05-10
US	53013507	R28F6Q8VQBTFJ7	0345430581	63398281	A Taste for Death (Adam Dalgliesh Mysteries, No. 7)	Books	5	58	65	N	N	Don't Pinch Your Grandmother	Among the masters of crime writing stands P.D. James, 80 years old, read by millions, and still selling (better than ever). She got her peerage in 1991 and sits in the House of Lords as the Baroness of Holland Park, on the  Tory side opposite her rival Ruth Rendell, who is, incidentally, probably  the better writer. Proclaimed as the Queen of mystery, P.D. was constrained  by straightened circumstances to enter the British civil service. There she  worked her way up eventually ending in the Police and Criminal Law  Departments of the Home Office. Along the way she has also served as a  Magistrate and as a governor of the BBC. All of which experiences she  brings to bear on her wonderful, entertaining, and innovative fiction. Need  I remind anyone that Baroness Holland Park in 1971 invented Cordelia Gray,  the world's first female private eye and showed that women can have the  same intelligence, powers of observation, and deductive sense as men? A  Taste for Death, her best book, takes us into the world and minds of all  characters, expresses their complex beliefs, psychological attitudes, and  interesting thoroughly British behaviors so that we understand why these  people are taking every fatal step. Some have found PD's writing slightly  flat and wordy and have thought that this book, which runs 211,000 words,  could have benefited from the kindly ministrations of a good editor. But  who would dare edit her? It would be like pinching one's grandmother.  Personally, I like reading how London homes look on the inside and I enjoy  all those hallmark details of tea preparation and descriptions of elegant  and not so elegant gardens. It's like reading Barbara Pym with the  additional benefit of a horrible set of murders thrown in. Yes, friends,  this is crime fiction at its very best. It goes beyond that fine  achievement into another realm, the redemptive realm of art.	2000-05-08
US	53013507	R3IZ545Z4ECVTJ	1885777116	510050269	Lone Star Justice: A Biography of Justice Tom C. Clark	Books	5	2	5	N	N	True History Told Well	Tom Clark got his BA degree in two years and his law degree in one year. Then he went on to become the Attorney General and after that an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court. This gem of a book covers highlights from  Clark's public career and in doing so nicely reviews the recent history of  the Supreme Court. Most of us vaguely realize that real power these days  has left the congress, the people, and the executive branch to reside in  the bureaucracy and the courts and that important political questions that  can't be resolved, more or less, eventually end up in the hands of the  courts. If you don't remember Mapp v. Ohio, or Miranda v. Arizona, or Brown  I&amp;II v. Topeka, or if you can't explain what the Establishment Clause  is, then you might profit from reading this book and discover how and why  our legal system came to defend liberty with as much rigor and absolute  fairness as it defends life. The author's style is simple and direct but  colored by a youthful enthusiasm because, after all, the idea, much of the  research, and the writing occurred while the author was still a high school  student at Tom C. Clark High School in San Antonio. Great books like this  one, produced at an early age, are no accident and indicate greater books  to come.	2000-05-07
US	53013507	R28VH9CCBIF22W	0446672289	231487583	The Death of Common Sense: How Law is Suffocating America	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Government of the rules, by the rules, and for the rules	Soviet style central planning didn't work because it couldn't think and judge. Strangely we have in the effort to become entirely fair to everyone all the time evoled a system of rules and regulations that defies common  sense. No wonder we feel hemmed in and overburdened. Philip Howard, an  attorney, explains how this is happening but doesn't seem to have a clearly  focused solution. We need a restoration of American democracy and more  power to the people. A good place to start is by understanding problems by  reading this book.	2000-05-05
US	53013507	R7RA48EHVQP1O	0964385619	156348512	Rich Dad, Poor Dad: What the Rich Teach Their Kids about Money - That the Poor and the Middle Class Do Not!	Books	1	24	32	N	Y	Highly Questionable Hokum Repeated with Sysyphean Efficiency	This book doesn't offer any evidence, only assertion and conjecture, to support the main thesis. In fact, most of what this book tells us that the rich teach their children is highly questionable hokum needlessly repeated.  As for the great lessons designed to get us out of the rat race and onto  the fast track: Did you know that it is better to have assets than  liabilities? (This astounding point is made nine times.) Did you know that  an asset is something that puts money in your pocket? Well, it is! That's  why it is good to have assets. Get it? And guess what? The biggest  liability most people have is taxes. This is because we are taxed on what  we earn, what we buy and sell, what we own, and we are taxed when we die.  So the author advised us to avoid taxes, but his method of writing off  expenses in a private corporation is highly dubious. By his own admission,  the author is a &quot;terrible writer&quot; (page 132), a statement I know  to be true because I suffered through his book. If you need financial  advice, go to a professional. If you wish to read about economics, read  something intelligent like Peter Lynch's Beating the Street or Jack  Schwager's Market Wizards or the Wall Street Journal Guide to Understanding  Money and Investing. And if you really want to understand the economic  structure of our time, read the classics like John Maynard Keynes' The  General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money (1936)or Joseph A.  Schumpeter's treatise on business cycles.	2000-05-05
US	53013507	R1HGYV1WLYLWLN	0741403358	422469774	Galaxy Literary Journal Volume 1 Number 2	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Eclectic But Interesting	Some of the stories are great, some not so great and others OK. Joan Reeves' tale entitled Dear Author had wonderful narrative flow, a super plot, and a wonderful punch at the end. Helen Wang's true story (Mei Li's  Two Buttons) of her escape as a child from Red China was quite moving and  might do well as a children's book. Bernard Patten's account of his trials  and tribulations with the breast implant manufacturers and their minions  was an eye opener and might have well appeared in the New Yorker it was so  well written. All in all this volume is worth the price.	2000-04-16
US	53013507	R2GDK0OA3B5P40	0887309577	315336312	The Gorilla Game: Picking Winners in High Technology	Books	4	29	40	N	Y	Gorilla Games Help Keep Us Gorilla's on Our Toes	This book is a good gift for your friends and relatives who invest but don't really know much about what they are doing. The advice, logic, and approach, while conservative, is way too dull and boring for the likes of  me. Nevertheless, I believe a less experienced investor would get a lot of  information and control from an informed reading of The Gorilla Game.	1999-11-15
