US	53012345	R2EZ8HB8JAPXI8	0373165994	334520583	Baby Maker (More Than Men)	Books	1	2	3	N	Y	Should have been marketed as a "alternate reality" book...	I really tried to like this book, and tried to suspend my feelings of disbelief about the whole plot, but I just couldn't.  When the hero, Ambrose, does some mumbo-jumbo spell type of thing over the belly of the sleeping heroine, Bitsy, and she ends up getting pregnant, I thought that was far-fetched enough, but thought it would turn out that she was already pregnant by her estranged husband.  Way too freaky when years later the DNA test shows that Ambrose is the father(shades of an immaculate conception!)  There was a bunch of weird stuff about plants growing to phenomenal sizes whenever the hero comes near, the power of the hero to end droughts, etc.  The final thing that absolutely blew my mind was when it turned out that the hero gets chased by the authorities and submitted to testing(reminded me too much of ET) because of his special powers.  The whole book was just too way out for my taste.  I don't know how it became an \\"American Romance\\" in the Harlequin line--it was definitely more in the paranormal genre and should have been marketed as such.  The hero and heroine were likeable enough, but the whole premise was just too fantastic for me.  People who like their romances more on the paranomal/alternate reality side might like this book though.	2005-09-16
US	53012345	R16D2A6XO71G0S	0451216369	661966700	Dedication (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	1	8	23	N	N	Not a "traditional" regency--should have been marketed elsewhere	With the demise of the Zebra line of Regency romances, apparently Signet has decided to market more sensual regencies in order to try to keep their line afloat.  I don't mind having sexual issues handled in books, even in regencies, but I expect to have it be in keeping with the era and with good taste.  I didn't like this book, not only because there was what I consider \\"slang\\" words used for private parts that just made \\"making love\\" seem cheap/tacky and too much overt sex for what I thought was going to be a more traditional regency, but I didn't really like the main characters.  I thought that Adam had been a very selfish person when he first met the heroine, Fabienne, and had pretty much used her.  I didn't understand their attraction for each other, except for the sex.  Fabienne was misused by other men in her past, after Adam.  She supposedly had issues about that, but still just lusted after Adam and gave up what was left of her reputation.  I've read other books where the hero or heroine was the author of a romance/gothic novel or \\"advice\\" novel and the plot was handled with a lot more humor.  I also didn't buy that the hero would so readily admit that he was the author of such a book at the end--in that culture I don't think it would be accepted easily.  Anyway, this book was a waste of money, as far as I am concerned.	2005-09-14
US	53012345	R23Y7H7GU2470A	0373707924	479297715	Babe in the Woods (Harlequin Superromance No. 792)	Books	1	0	0	N	Y	Disappointed in the the hero and in the baby angle	I'm not a prude, but I expect that when I read about a man who is trying to decide whether or not to take his final vows to be a priest that he will struggle at least a little with giving in to his sexual desires out of wedlock.  The hero, Brendan, doesn't seem to give it a thought when he makes out with the Dani, the heroine.  I felt like the story was just pieced together without much developement of the issues that the characters were supposedly struggling with.  I also thought there would be a bit more about the relationship of the couple with the baby, the offspring of Brendan's unwed niece, but the baby seemed to be secondary to things, and ends up getting adopted by strangers at the end of the book.  I'm sorry I wasted my money on this book.	2005-09-13
US	53012345	R3C015VZQYNZP6	0821777459	489094879	A Delightful Folly (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	1	4	5	N	Y	Big disappointment--don't waste your time or your money	I gave one of this author's previous books a five-star rating, so I expected to like this book.  One of the first problems I had with this book was the way the book started with a strange type of dis-jointed dialogue/description.  It almost defies my describing it because I am still not sure what the author was trying to do.  I had a hard time following who the characters were and following what they were saying/thinking.  It seemed like the story kept flipping back and forth from character to character and I didn't like it.  Sometimes it felt like I was being forced to try to read between the lines and figure out what a character was feeling and thinking.  Whatever was going on in the writing style seemed different from her other books.<br /><br />I didn't particularly care for either of the main characters.  There didn't seem to be a good explanation for what they saw in each other that made them fall in love.  There was sexual attraction but not enough character development to show that there was a basis for love.  The plot was pretty flimsy.  I am not a prude, but the pre-marital sex between the two characters seemed to just be tacked on to the end of the book for effect, not as any natural progression from their developing feelings for each other.  It wasn't a particularly romantic or compelling event either, in my mind.  After reading this book, I don't think I will view this author as an \\"automatic buy\\" any more.  I will check out reviews first, and then maybe buy.	2005-03-14
US	53012345	R3U4YXIHPBJL88	0821776207	216475750	The Gilded Knight (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Touching love story of the redemption of a wasted life...	I have only read one or two of the author's others books, but after reading her latest, I will be exploring some of her other writings.  This story was exceptional in how it presented the reasons why the two main characters were drawn to each other, and how the relationship helped both of them face past issues and mature.  Sir Charles and the widowed Nell seemed to be a mis-matched couple at first, since they were on adversarial sides.  Charles was sent by his hypochondriacal brother to evict Nell  and her invalid child,Delphine, from the ancestral home.  How Charles falls in love with Nell and grows to love her daughter as his own child is a touching story.  Each of the main characters has flaws, like in real life, but they also have strengths that they didn't know they had.  Charles had lived a life of gambling and drinking, without a purpose.  It was difficult to show the progression of his maturing in such a short book, and I would have liked to see this story be in a longer format to fully develop things more, but the author was very successful in making me believe that the wastrel could turn over a new leaf.  Delphine was a sweet character, and I also liked the personalities of the servants.  An excellent book--one that is going on my keeper shelf.	2005-01-29
US	53012345	R34NJ72V8OT9CN	0373165722	35371628	Nanny Angel	Books	1	2	3	N	Y	Just plain ridiculous--went into the trash!	I thought this would be a romance about a nanny who seemed to be like an angel, not a nanny who really WAS an angel!  It started out with the angel showing up naked in the hero's yard, and went downhill from there.  The angel, in the guise of a nanny, has sex with the hero(it was somehow \\"approved\\" by higher authority!)  At the end, the angel/nanny disappears and the hero doesn't recognize her when she shows up again as a person, but she seems somehow familiar so you are to assume that they get back together again.  Anyway, the plot was so silly that I couldn't even take it seriously.  I don't expect my romance novels to be totally true to life, but when it comes to angels running around naked and having sex, it is too far-fetched for me to even get into the story.  What a waste--glad I bought this one used so I didn't feel so bad about throwing it into the trash.	2004-11-14
US	53012345	RKF5LCJS9VB9X	0263823385	514048449	The Veiled Bride (Mills & Boon Historical)	Books	5	5	9	N	N	Read it in one day--couldn't wait to see how it ended!	I had read another book by this author, called Friday Dreaming, which I hadn't cared for, so I was a bit cautious about buying this book.  I am glad I took the chance!  I really liked this book.  I do tend to like the \\"tortured hero\\" type, and Anton, Lord Raith, delivered!  He was mysterious and sexy, and very tender underneath his hard shell.  The heroine, Rosina, had a secret, and the story is about how this secret comes out and how it affects the marriage of the main characters.  If I tell you the secret it won't be a secret, of course...so I will just say that the plot is driven by more than a \\"big misunderstanding.\\"  Neither of the main characters are perfect, nor are they always nice to each other as they are trying to work through making their marriage a real one, where there is give and take.  Both of them learn how to love in an unconditional way.  The book was a bit too short to develop their relationship the way I would have liked it--I think it would have been a bit better if it had been marketed in an expanded historical romance rather than in the Harlequin historical line, which is pretty short.  Still, given the length constraints of the book, the reader still gets to go along for the ride as the hero and heroine explore their feelings for each other.  Lord Raith has a sad past, and while Rosina's love doesn't \\"cure him\\" magically of his hang-ups, he does learn to feel loved and to not take himself so seriously. For those who want to know about the \\"heat\\" rating in this book, it is only mildly graphic, and is more about sexual tension than the act itself, so it wouldn't really appeal to those who like multiple, \\"hot\\" love scenes in a book.  It would appeal to those who like to watch good character development.  The reader gets to take a peek into the hearts and brains of each of the main characters in turn.  The secondary character of the solicitor, Mr. Otterly, deserves a mention because he is interesting and plays an important role in getting the couple together, and later, back together.  I highly recommend this book and it is going on my keeper shelf.couple together, and later, back together.   I highly recommend this book and it is going on my keeper shelf.	2004-11-09
US	53012345	R31UR0ZUTIN1JJ	082174576X	416709652	The Raven and the Dove (Heartfire Romance)	Books	2	0	0	N	Y	Enjoyable froth, but not a keeper	The main problem for me with this book was the heroine, Cynara.  She was really annoying.  Anyone who marries a gorgeous, tall, dark \\"hunk\\" and goes around sulking needs their head examined!  It was interesting to have the hero know that he was in love from close to the beginning of the book, and to have the heroine be the one who \\"holds out\\" against true love, but Cynara dithered for so long before she decided that she loved her husband that I was ready to clunk her on the head and run off with the hero Merlin myself! She seemed to be pretty selfish in the way that she took his affection for granted.  He had been falsely accused of murdering his father, and it took way too long for her to trust him.<br /><br />The love scenes weren't very graphic, which was fine with me, but the descriptions sometimes bordered on \\"purple prose,\\" the kind of fanciful descriptions of love-making that can make you feel like laughing.  Some of it was good though, and got the point across without being too anatomical.  Because the heroine took so long to recognize and acknowledge her love for her husband, the \\"love scenes\\" were pretty one-sided for most of the book, and I felt that that spoiled the effect.  It didn't seem realistic for the recently virginal bride to so suddenly become enthralled with love-making when she really didn't trust her husband at that point.<br /><br />I did appreciate that the author tried to show what the couple saw in each other, besides the sexual attraction.  I felt that one of the weaknesses was the plot thread about Cynara's brother who was jailed under false accusations.  It was brought up at the beginning, but seemed to take too long to develop.<br /><br />Overall, this was a pleasant read, but one that I skimmed through after a while because I started to lose interest.  Not a bad book, but not a memorable one.	2004-11-05
US	53012345	R3JPGE3SI6XCSR	0373293275	8262786	The Christmas Visit (Harlequin Historical)	Books	1	10	14	N	N	One good story, two trashy ones--don't bother!	Margaret Moore, who was given \\"top-billing\\" on this trio of stories(her name is in large print, with the other two authors in smaller print), should have refused to have her story in this anthology.  Her story was the only good one in the bunch.  Moore's story is about a disfigured hero and a poor, virtuous orphanage matron.  Typical kind of \\"beauty and the beast\\" scenario, but it was well-written and quite touching.  I liked the children and the other secondary characters in the story.  This would have made an even better full-length novel.  However, even with the short length of the story, the author gives us likable, even lovable, characters.  She also showed the development of a romance that went beyond sexual attraction, and involved the two main characters discovering things about each other that they could like and admire.  The Christmas aspect added to the interest of the story, particularly when it came to music and cooking of the season.<br /><br />The next two stories were forgettable, in my opinion.  Brisban is a good writer, but I didn't like the plot of the hero falling for the heroine while she is working as a prostitute.  Maybe in a longer story this could be developed in a sensitive, engaging manner, but in this short story, it just didn't work for me.  I didn't like the hero sleeping with her at first just for sex, and her being totally dissociated from the experience.  Then, somehow, he falls in love with her and is able to \\"bring her to life.\\"  Of course, she is acting as a prostitute because she had no other choice, theoretically, and that is supposed to make everything ok?  I did like the fact that the hero was older and more mature, with grown kids--it is nice to see at least an attempt at showing that love and romance can be ageless.  Still, the whole sex for money and out of obligation stuff just turned me off.<br /><br />Ranstrom's story was the least likable of all.  It was set in the regency period, I believe, and the heroine was way too quick to lose her virginity to the hero before even the possibility of a marriage was discussed.  This happened, I'm sure, during the Regency to even \\"nice\\" young misses, but in that era if you weren't a virgin coming into marriage, you could be ruined as far as your chances for making a good marriage.  I don't believe that Charity wouldn't have even considered what her actions might due to her future.  This seemed like a modern tale just thrown into a historical background.  I also didn't care for the hero--he had a Scottish name, but that was about all.  I like Scottish heros, but this one didn't really talk, act or think like a Scotsman, as far as I am concerned.  The sex certainly was hot and steamy, if that is all one is looking for in a romance, but I want to see more romance and more showing of what draws the characters together as a couple, not just mindless sex.  This book was a big disappointment--I expect more from Harlequin Historicals, particularly their Christmas anthologies.  This book was a waste of my money and my time.lose her virginity to the hero before even the possibility of a marriage was discussed.  This happened, I'm sure, during the Regency to even \\"nice\\" young misses, but in that era if you weren't a virgin coming into marriage, you could be ruined as far as your chances for making a good marriage.  I don't believe that Charity wouldn't have even considered what her actions might due to her future.  This seemed like a modern tale just thrown into a historical background.  I also didn't care for the hero--he had a Scottish name, but that was about all.  I like Scottish heros, but this one didn't really talk, act or think like a Scotsman, as far as I am concerned.  The sex certainly was hot and steamy, if that is all one is looking for in a romance, but I want to see more romance and more showing of what draws the characters together as a couple, not just mindless sex.  This book was a big disappointment--I expect more from Harlequin Historicals, particularly their Christmas anthologies.  This book was a waste of my money and my time.	2004-10-28
US	53012345	R2QRY8ERHWEJB4	0373872305	748181590	The Harvest: All Good Gifts/Loving Grace (Steeple Hill Thanksgiving 2-in-1) (Love Inspired #223)	Books	1	5	7	N	N	Gail Gaymer Martin the only good author in the book	This is a two story holiday(Thanksgiving) inspirational release.The story by Gail Gaymer Martin is ok--not her best, but it is hard to develop a plot and characters in such a short story.  The only thing I didn't really like about her story was about how quick the heroine jumped to conclusions about the fact that her new boyfriend appeared to be still involved with his ex-fiancee.  I realize that the heroine was supposed to have \\"hang-ups\\" about trusting men, but this \\"big mis-understanding\\" part of the plot seemed to be a bit contrived.  It wasn't as if she and the hero had really made any committment and she kind of played the \\"drama queen\\" role.  Other than that, it was a pleasant little story.<br /><br />The second story, by Cynthia Rutledge, was horrible, and I tossed the book into the trash after reading it.  This story is in a Love Inspired book, which is supposed to be \\"clean\\" Christian romance.  I realize that some Christians approve of drinking alcohol while others don't.  That's fine--the problem I had with this book is that I think it would be better to leave the mention of alcohol out since that way it wouldn't offend anyone.  Alcohol use was mentioned several times, and at one point the aunt asks the hero if \\"had been drinking\\" because of how he was behaving and he said \\"only a couple of drinks.\\"  It just didn't fit in with what was supposed to be an inspirational story.  The author hinted at the hero's past sexual exploits, and never explained how he dealt with them given his falling in love with the heroine, a virgin.  The heroine let herself get too attached to the hero before she knew he was a Christian.  I felt like the book was just a run-of-the-mill secular romance with a couple of references to God and church thrown in to turn it into an \\"inspirational romance.\\"  Steeple Hill publishes some great inspirational romances in this series.  This just wasn't one of them.	2004-09-24
US	53012345	R394RH2SISQ6U6	0821775073	383129876	The Captain's Mermaid (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	A very enjoyable read--read it in one sitting!	This is the first book I have read by this author, and I was impressed.  The strength of the book was in the way the author developed believable characters that you care about and showed how the hero and heroine grew to love each other. The secondary characters were appealing, especially the children.  There wasn't any dancing at Almack's, highwaymen, or other traditional regency plot devices.  There was a little bit of villainy in the past and in the present, but the plot didn't revolve about this issue.  The main characters, Lavinia and William, were honorable and interesting people who struggled to deal with the problems of everyday living, and with emotional intimacy. William is a naval officer and he is a \\"loner.\\"  Lavinia is a free--spirit who grew up in Jamaica, and longs for independence but has a life that is ruled by her brother and his wild, reckless lifestyle.  They seem like an unlikely couple, with each afraid to commit to the other, but find that rather than giving up their freedom in the \\"bonds\\" of matrimony, they find freedom in having the love and friendship that marriage brings to them.<br />This is a book that entices you to keep reading because you want to get to the \\"happily ever after\\" and you want to see the emotional issues resolve.  Since it isn't so much driven by the plot as it is the exploration of the characters and their emotions, some readers might find it a bit \\"slow\\" for their tastes, if they prefer a lot of action and adventure in a romance.  It is mildly sensual but the sex scenes are very discreet, so someone looking for more \\"heat\\" might be disappointed.  Things are left to the readers' imagination, as is usual in the more traditional regency romances.  This book made my \\"keeper\\" shelf, since it is one that I would re-read in the future.  I would definitely consider reading more from this author.	2004-09-14
US	53012345	R2BU9V6RM22V45	0821777157	191271703	Lady Fiasco (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	33	34	N	Y	Pleasant read--I expect good things from this new author	This book was an enjoyable story, but not that memorable story.  Since it is the author's debut novel, I am sure that books to follow will be even better.  I liked the clever chapter titles, and the writing moved along smoothly.  The only thing that kept me from rating it higher were some \\"quibbles\\" with a few character and plot issues.  Fiona and Tyrell were likable enough, but I expected more to be made of Tyrell's hellish war-time experiences, and how Fiona was able to help him heal from them.  Fiona was a spunky girl, but she seemed to fall into the trap of believing in her so-called curse too easily.  I just didn't believe the way that the townspeople shunned her and it didn't seem in character for her to go along with the idea of the curse.  There could have been more development of why the hero and heroine fell for each other, and less focus on some of the rather cliched plot twists and turns. One character that was pretty likable was the eccentric aunt, but at one point she was displaying exhibitionism, and it wasn't explained well why she was doing so.  The villain was so dastardly he was almost a caricature.  I think the book is pleasant enough, but could have been even better if some of the uneven edges were smoothed out.  I guess that I had expectations about having the hero deal with his past and start healing with the heroine's help, and while he did get over his not wanting to marry anyone, it didn't seem like there was enough time spent on his emotional issues,given that so much was made of them in the beginning.  I do think that the author shows a lot of promise, and I look forward to watching her writing grow in the future.	2004-09-07
US	53012345	R158ZL8XC7OFMM	0449236501	442708592	REGENCY MISS	Books	2	4	7	N	Y	Didn't even finish it, threw it away...	I bought this book on the recommendation of a reviewer that had steered me towards some good books, but this one proved to be not my cup of tea!  I will admit that one of my complaints, that the print was so tiny it was hard to read, wouldn't have bothered me if the book had been better.  I really had a hard time with the premise of the heroine sneaking into an inn to have sex with a stranger to just get rid of her virginity.  It didn't seem adequately explained, and it bothered me that when she started to have second thoughts, the man didn't listen to her.  He didn't rape her, but it really turned me off to have her be somewhat unwilling.  After this inauspicious beginning, the book just couldn't capture my interest.  I skimmed it, and I really was disappointed about how little true romance was in it.  There seemed to be too many other characters, making it kind of confusing to follow.  I gave the book two stars because the author apparently researched things well, and because the writing style wasn't bad, but I just simply hated the plot.	2004-07-13
US	53012345	R1E41VX44MNY5O	0764228684	599760613	Free to Grieve: Healing and Encouragement for Those Who Have Suffered Miscarriage and Stillbirth	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	Frequently recommend this book to my friends and patients	This book is written from a Christian perspective, but it isn't so &quot;preachy&quot; that people of other faiths or beliefs couldn't benefit from it.  The book holds a special place in my heart since it helped me grieve myself, and I have given it out to friends and relatives and recommended it to patients.  I have gotten much positive feedback from the recipients.  One of the main strengths of this book is that it deals very well with the issue of early pregnancy loss, as well as late-term and infant death.  Other books sometimes give early miscarriage little to no attention, and in my own experience, until I found this book, I didn't feel validated or supported about the issues of my early losses.  This book makes it clear that no matter the stage of pregnancy, it is ok and right to grieve about your loss. It helps clear up myths about pregnancy loss, and also helps deal with issues that can interfere with normal, necessary grieving processes.  I have read similar books, and got some help from them, but some of them were so focused on telling the story of someone else and how they dealt with their loss that they made me feel even worse.  This book is set up into fairly short chapters, with  titles, and it makes it easy to pick and choose what you want to read so you can skip chapters that you don't feel apply to you.  I can't say enough about this invaluable book.  I personally am very grateful to the author for writing this very helpful book and I try to keep at least one copy on hand to give out to people who are going through pregnancy loss.  It can be a little difficult to find this book in bookstores, and it is one that is sometimes needed unexpectedly, so it is worth it to me to have one available just in case I want to reach out to help someone going through what I did.	2004-04-23
US	53012345	R2IELSZS01ZNR4	0373289499	938262945	Raven'S Vow	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An unashamedly romantic delight!	The plot of the book is pretty simple.  A romance of a marriage of convenience, a couple of villains trying to defeat the couple, sexual tension between the hero and the heroine that keeps you turning the pages, waiting for them to finally consummate their marriage, and a happily-ever-after ending.  The hero, John Raven, is an enigmatic mix of Native American and Scotsman, and I really wanted to have him all to myself.  The heroine, Catherine, is spunky and loyal.  Her very naive view of life and particularly of love, get her into trouble, but Raven is an honorable hero, so he wins her love without taking advantage of her. Catherine is a lady, the daughter of a duke, and Raven is a rough-hewn, untitled self-made man.  Although  the villains are pretty sterostypical, and the plot isn't very comlicated, the romance is what drives the story, and sometimes that is just what the doctor ordered!  This is a keeper for my shelf.	2004-03-09
US	53012345	R93JU0JPZPLWP	0821776274	287568618	The Unexpected Sister (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	A highly satisfactory read!	I jsut finished reading this book in one evening, and it is a &quot;keeper&quot; for me.  It is an nice combination of mystery and romance.  The heroine, Caroline, is a warm and loyal person, and the hero, Thomas, is a brave and honorable one.  They make you want to root for them and for their happiness.  Their behavior is very believable, and the romance moves along nicely, although the mystery does command a lot of the attention.  It is hard to say much about this book without giving away too much of the mystery, but I can say that the mystery involves the relationship between Thomas, Lord Dashly, and Caroline's deceased brother, Peter, and their adventures in wartime Spain.  The author has researched things very thoroughly, and skillfully weaves the war-time events into the fabric of the present story.<br />I can't say that I &quot;liked&quot; Caroline's sister, Melisande, to whom Thomas feels obligated to offer marriage, but she was a complex, interesting character.  There are some other, very likable characters in the book, including a former Sergeant-Major and his wife, and Caroline's friends.  They added a lot to the book.<br />I think some readers might feel that the romance took second place to the mystery, and maybe it does, in parts, but there is enough simmering attraction between the hero and heroine to drive the story along.  They both are attracted to each other, but out of loyaltly to Melisande, and for other reasons, try to deny the attraction.  This is a good regency, that seems to have been well-researched.  For example, I have read much about &quot;Lord Elgin's Marbles&quot; in other regencies--this book explains how and why they were acquired and came to be in England.  The dialogues and the descriptive narratives are well-written, and make it a satisfying, &quot;filling&quot; read in the way that only a good regency can accomplish, in my mind.  I find that when I read some modern romances, I find myself feeling like I am snacking, rather than eating a good meal--asking, where is the good dialogue, where is the descriptive prose?  This book has both of my requirements for a good read, plus it was a touching romance.  Hope to see more from this author!ing a good meal--asking, where is the good dialogue, where is the descriptive prose?  This book has both of my requirements for a good read, plus it was a touching romance.  Hope to see more from this author!	2004-02-25
US	53012345	R3TYB0OX6PGFTX	0373872488	863483739	Luck and a Prayer (Love Inspired #238)	Books	1	1	3	N	N	Really wanted to like it, but it was just too melodramatic!	I like books about &quot;cops and robbers,&quot; but this book just was &quot;over the top&quot; for me.  The main character, Willa, was supposed to be an undercover cop, but she acted way too stupidly and foolishly for me to believe she had ever gone through police training.  She made a lot of mistakes, ended up putting the lives of civilians at risk, and we are supposed to believe that she did that because she was so focused on avenging the death of her father.  She didn't even carry a weapon when she went to retrieve evidence in the desert, so she was unarmed when she was almost killed by a bear, by a rattlesnake, by an evil man, etc.  This cop didn't even break in her boots when she went camping?  Come on, how dumb is that?  I liked the hero, the youth minister, but he got quite lovey-dovey with Willa, even though she didn't seem to share his beliefs.  What if she hadn't changed, and decided to believe in God?  He would have been stuck in a love that wouldn't have worked out for him.  I felt like the author just threw all sorts of obstacles at the characters--raging rapids, evil pimps,bats, rattlesnakes, bears, etc. to the point that I had a hard time believing that they all could survive the whole ordeal.  None of the &quot;good guys&quot; died, and everything turned out ok in the end.  I don't mean to sound like I hated this book--I just think that the author could do much better.  It was like reading a an adventure comic strip.  I really never liked Willa because she wasn't honest with the minister from the start and dragged him and kids into danger because she wasn't up front with him.  The minister's controlling and hypocritical father was pretty stereotypical, and I found it hard to believe that he had raised such a nice son.<br />Obviously other people have liked this book, and that is ok, because I know that people have different tastes.  So, other readers may find this book to their taste.  It just wasn't my type, and I threw it away after I finished it.  I like more well-thought out internal conflict in a novel, rather than page after page of swash-buckling type action that can sometimes stretch the limits of believability..  I like more well-thought out internal conflict in a novel, rather than page after page of swash-buckling type action that can sometimes stretch the limits of believability.	2004-01-20
US	53012345	R12TP4STUSSGL	0821767844	820699838	The Marrying Man (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	1	0	0	N	N	Big disappointment--loved her other book!	I really liked \\"Affectionately Yours,\\" so I expected to enjoy this one too.  I found the book to be down-right boring!  Too much time was spent on the hero, St. John, fruitlessly proposing to woman after woman, including the heroine, Alethea.  Apparently he wanted to be married for the sake of being married, and had set a time limit for himself.  The author didn't really explain in enough depth why he wanted to be married.  He was enjoying sex on the side, so that wasn't it.  Actually, the book would have made more sense if he had been a virgin who wanted to get married for obvious reasons!  As it was, I was turned off by the hero sleeping with a tavern wench part-way through the book, when he was already starting to \\"fall in love\\" with the heroine.  Neither character was very interesting, or very endearing.  I can't believe the same author wrote this book and \\"Affectionately Yours,\\" which had an interesting plot and likeable characters.  I hope the next book is much better than \\"The Marrying Man!\\"	2003-07-22
US	53012345	R3D7ZFB1KI5ZLT	0451209079	460530872	The Secret Diary (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not enough romance--too predictable	I am generally a fan of Martha Kirkland, but this book isn't one of her best.  David and Olivia had chemistry, but they didn't spend enough time together in the book to develop it. They had physical attraction going for them from the beginning, yet the book didn't do a good job of showing why they really fell in love.  There was too much focus on the \\"mystery,\\" which was way too predictable.  I never got caught up in the story, so it never rang true for me.  There was one inconsistency that really bugged me--the heroine reads a letter saying that the mysterious \\"D\\" wrote, where he talks about how old he is(three score and ten or some such thing) and the heroine never notices that that is older than David, so that he can't be \\"D.\\"  She also jumps to the conclusion that he lied about being \\"D,\\" and it just didn't seem to be realistic--she loved him and how she put two and two together to get five wasn't believable.  The secret diary was barely mentioned, even though the title would lead you to think there would be a lot more about it. I gave the book 3 stars because it was generally accurate to the historical regency era, and I was able to finish it.  However, it isn't a \\"keeper\\" for me.	2003-06-04
US	53012345	R7R1QQNS192NU	0449240479	228739774	Cassandra Knot	Books	1	6	6	N	N	Absolutely awful--it went into the trash!	I had read another book by this author, and liked it, so decided to order this one.  I was really disappointed.  This book never explains what the couple sees in each other and why they fall in love, if what they have at the end could even be described as love.  The couple marry for convenience--she so that she can escape an unwanted arranged marriage and get away from mean relatives, he so that he can have money.  It may be just me, but I wasn't even sure if they consummated their marriage--it was hinted at(the next day he reflects on the potentially stressful nature of her wedding night, and they did share a bed, but that is all) But, their physical relationship was never really discussed.  I don't want graphic descriptions, but it seemed odd to not develop the relationship.  I didn't like the hero.  Practically right after the wedding he went to visit his mistress.  When his mistress was murdered(another hackneyed plot twist) he didn't even seem to be remorseful.  He didn't love her, but you would think that he would at least have had some tender feelings toward her.  The heroine was pretty unlikeable too.  She was madly in love with the hero, jealous of his mistress, but did nothing to help herself.  She seemed to be out to get into trouble with the ton.  To top it all off, the murderer turns out to be someone who had seemed to be nice, and had helped the heroine transform into an \\"appropriate duchess.\\"  The whole plot was just cut and pieced together, wasn't believable, and I really didn't care at all what happened to any of the characters.  Don't waste time or money on this book.	2003-03-29
US	53012345	R3F4Z8488TVK2J	0449001369	667526381	Lady Meg's Gamble (Regency Romance)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Touching, engaging story--highly recommended!	I had never read a book by this author before, and purchased it based on a brief description of the plot and some reviews.  I was pleasantly surprised to have it turn out to be one of the best regencies I have read(and I read a lot of them--about five a week!)  The heroine, Meg, marries for money to keep her estate, and the hero, James, marries to get a home and stability in his life.  James has had a cold, mostly loveless life, and is afraid to care about people and doesn't give his trust easily.  Meg is a warm, caring person who is unconventional--an &quot;original.&quot;  The best thing about this book was the gradual and realistic development of their love.  The last half of the book takes place after they marry, and their arguments and misunderstandings ring eerily true to life.  It isn't always easy being married, even to someone you love, because marriage means communication and compromise.  I was impressed by the author's sensitive way of handling James' problem with allowing anyone to get close to him.  As a therapist, I have often met people who, like James, leave relationships before they can get left themself, or try to make the other person leave first.  The plot was based on the interplay of human emotions, rather than mystery or high drama, and it succeeded very well.  I really grew to care about the characters because they seemed so real.  I hope to see more books from this author!	2003-03-28
US	53012345	R377OMXY3NXDVL	0449501256	116519964	Petronella's Waterloo	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Enjoyable read--feisty heroine, interesting setting	The story takes place after Napoleon has been sent into exile, and concludes when he escapes and his troops are conquered once more.  Petronella is a spunky heroine who gets a job as a governess to get away from her controlling guardian.  There is an intriguing side-story about her employer, Madame de Courcys, who is abused by her husband and may die if she once again becomes pregnant.  The tension about the resolution of this other story was one of the things that made this book a page-turner.  Although the spying angle was a bit hard to believe(the heroine just stumbles onto a plot to kill Wellington, and is able to spy on the traitors several times), it did make for a reason for her to get together again with the hero, Lord Claverton.  I liked the fact that Lord Claverton was attracted to the heroine from the start of the book, and decides to pursue her.  There were some funny scenes when the heroine tells some \\"whoppers\\" to get her way, and to extricate herself from some sticky situations.  The hero appreciates her spunk and her sense of humor.  My only complaint is that the hero and the heroine don't get to spend enough time together to have their romance fully played out, but despite that, it was an enjoyable read and I would like to read more by this author.	2003-03-22
US	53012345	R1YWBUNQJQZL41	0449224872	597400717	What Chloe Wants (Regency Romance)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A new &quot;old favorite&quot;--straight to the &quot;keeper shelf!&quot;	I enjoyed this book immensely.  Chloe was a wonderful, funny heroine, and Liam was the perfect match for her--good sense of humor as well as being a &quot;hunk.&quot;  Chloe's father, a duke, makes an ultimatum, that Chloe must choose a husband by the end of the London Season, or he will do it for her.  Her antics have gotten her into trouble, as usual, and he decides that marrying her off will solve the problem.  She has to marry at least an earl, or greater rank.  He forgets to specify &quot;Not Irish!&quot;  Chloe literally bumps into the hero on the street, and is infatuated at first sight.  Over the course of the book, she develops a love for the hero as well, as she spends more time with him.  She unfortunately blurts out in front of a crowd that she &quot;wants him,&quot; the second time she sees him, and Liam is much too proud to be bought with Chloe's father's money.  He is an impoverished land-owner.  The book is sweet and also has great laugh-aloud scenes and dialogues. Chloe tends to talk by running on from topic to topic, and it is so funny when Liam tries to follow her train of thought, often getting de-railed by her.  I laughed so hard over one scene that I scared the cat, who was sitting next to me!  I couldn't put the book down, and it read way too quickly.  Besides the great hero and heroine, the author brings back some of her characters from earlier books, which made the book even more enjoyable.  Definitely a keeper, and worth paying the price for it out of print!	2003-03-11
US	53012345	R1VQ0BNSXAHF60	0451208021	516951460	The Marriage Campaign (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	9	11	N	Y	Not enough romance, too many characters	I really thought that I would like this book better than I did.  I enjoyed the author's first book, A Scandalous Journey.  This book takes place during the same time of the first book, and that was part of what made it confusing.  The hero and the heroine of the first book play a large part, and it is disconcerting for them to be estranged, and not have their issues resolved, since the ending of the first book settled everything &quot;happily ever after.&quot;  I had a difficult time figuring out where this second book fit into the chronology--finally did, but it wasn't easy,and I felt like we were going over some old ground again.  My main problem was that the hero spent a lot of the book travelling around, checking out all the prospective brides on a list that his father had willed to him, and there wasn't enough time spent on developing the romance between the hero and heroine.  I actually thought one of the twins on the list, who was very musical, made a good match with him, and I didn't like how the author made her sister turn kind of nasty later, since they had both seemed nice at first.  There was a part when the hero overheard another girl from the list talking with a friend, and decided to cross her off the list, based on what she said.  Try as I might, I couldn't get the whole jist of the interaction, even though I re-read it.  I think better editing would have helped the book, and focusing more on the two main characters would have made it a better love story.  As it is, it is an entertaining look at regency society, but it fell a bit flat as a romance.  I would still try another of the author's books in the future, as I am sure she is continuing to hone her skills, but I don't think I would re-read this book.	2003-03-11
US	53012345	R1IJSXEPE02ZHM	0451208250	386426003	The Indifferent Earl (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	4	5	N	Y	Mixed feelings about this book...would like more romance	The idea of this book was great.  The hero and heroine have to complete a number of tasks set out by the heroine's grandmother in her will.  The grandmother was a noted courtesan, whose patron was the earl's grandfather.  There are some interesting tasks, with a clever treasure hunt.  My major problem was that I didn't feel that enough time was spent developing what the hero and heroine saw in each other, and why they grew to love each other.  The writing was good, and it was an interesting slice of regency life, but I wanted more character development and more romance.  I liked this book, but didn't love it, because it didn't really touch my emotions.  I do think that the author showed a lot of potential, and I would try her future books.	2003-03-11
US	53012345	R1BYCFPW25FSPD	0449224864	83573256	Coup de Grace	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Entertaining continuation of the series	This is one in a series of books of love stories involving friends(Grace, Rafe, Vivian, Tarquin,Jason, Aurelie,etc.)  I enjoyed it, but not as much as some others in the series--such as Choice Deceptions).  Rafe is heir to a duke in an earlier book, and he is presented as fun-loving and kind-hearted.  Before this book begins, he has lost his family to a fire, and has unwillingly become the duke after his father's death.  He has known Grace since childhood, being friends with her brother.  The loss of his family has embittered him, and he is trying to \\"drink himself to death.\\"  Grace comes back into his life, offering love and laughter.  The idea for the plot was good.  The only criticism I have is that it seemed too easy for Grace to help Rafe give up the alcohol and return to his life, and there wasn't enough explanation of how she was able to bring him back from his despair.  I felt that the book lacked in emotion in that aspect.  Rafe really acted like a jerk during most of the book.  He rejected his friends, and pushed Grace away.  I wish there has been a little more development of the gradual change in his attitude that took place, and it would have been good if he had had a catharsis to let out his pain over the deaths of his family members so that he could let go.  The book was pretty good, but I just think it could have been a bit better.  I do recommend it--I just don't think it is as good as some of the author's other books.	2003-03-10
US	53012345	R1F2JQ2TYL9AXB	0449224015	586484585	Choice Deceptions	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Worth paying the out-of-print price--a keeper!	I bought this book after reading a couple of the author's other books which I had enjoyed.  I wasn't disappointed with this one.  Many of the author's books are related through the characters.  This book introduces or develops the characters of some of the heroes and heroines of her other books.  Tarquin, Cloe, and Rafe are just a few of them, so you can look forward to reading their stories later.  The hero Jason, and the heroine, Aurelie, are very likeable.  The author makes you want to root for them and for their love.  There are some very funny lines and funny moments in the book, yet it isn't a farce.  There is a sensitive development of the characters and the love story as the book progresses.  You are let in on why the hero and heroine fall in love with each other, based on their personalities, not just their physical attraction to each other.  There are many other likable characters in the story, and they add to the enjoyment of reading the book.  I highly recommend this warm and well-written romance.	2003-03-08
US	53012345	R35VI7QL99EG62	0505522799	808582219	The Cat's Meow	Books	1	4	15	N	N	Big disappointment,more about witchcraft than cats/romance	I happen to like sweet and funny romances including animals as pets, but this book was a huge disappointment.  For instance, the stories included one about a cat who was a person/witch in cat form, caused by a spell from an evil woman. It was ridiculous to me.  This book was more about fantasy/witchcraft than about cats.  I found it to be disturbing overall, as it was more scary/unpleasant than it was romantic.  In other ways it just seemed silly.  I am not opposed to stories about witchcraft,in general, but these stories seemed to be more about spells and evil-doers than about romance and kitties.  Not my \\"cup of tea.\\"  I discarded this one.	2003-02-27
US	53012345	R1OS4L80WGWOBG	0821774190	366819482	Lord Logic And The Wedding Wish (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	One of the best--funny and sweet romance!	I won't go into detail about the plot, since the first reviewer did a good job of describing it.  This book had the nicest hero and heroine I have read about in a long time, and that fact made you really want them to have their &quot;happy ever after.&quot;  The couple had known each other as children, and their love grew out of those early roots.  It was a case of opposites attracting.  The heroine, Artemis, had nicknamed the hero Orion &quot;Lord Logic&quot; when he was a child because he always wants things to be rational and to make sense.  He has a scientific mind, but hides it away from public view because he wants to be accepted by the ton.  Artemis is part gypsy, and believes in signs and bases her decisions on them, and on what her heart tells her to do.  It makes for a fun and sweet romance as this couple, so different in outlook, realize that they aren't so different after all, and that they make a complementary couple.  There were a few &quot;laugh out loud&quot; parts and the romance was a sweet one, without much intrigue, or discord.  This isn't a deep work of literature--it doesn't pretend to be--but it is cheerful and satisfying little romance that is a very pleasant way to pass the time.  I couldn't put it down!  I am looking forward to more from this author.	2003-02-22
US	53012345	R5XF69NFDSLIB	0821769928	9425467	The Irredeemable Miss Renfield (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Mildly entertaining, but not one of Scott's best	I usually devour one of Regina Scott's books, but this one bogged down so much I read it over a couple of days.  My biggest &quot;beef&quot; was with the aspect of the plot where the heroine, Cleo, was going to create some sort of uproar with the hero to make her sisters stop matchmaking.  It wasn't a logical plan, and it just didn't work for the plot.  The introduction of &quot;bad girl Eloise,&quot; who apparently is going to be redeemed in another book, was pretty confusing.  It was unclear exactly what happened to her when she was caught in a compromising position in the stables by the heroine before the book started, and although I am sure this will all be explained in the other book, it still was disturbing to have such a loose end.  I really didn't think Eloise added much to the plot, and her trying to compromise the hero and then dropping the matter didn't make sense to me.  Cleo was not a very interesting heroine.  If she wasn't concocting crazy plans, she didn't have much of a personality.  Leslie, the hero, also was pretty boring.  I thought that he would be more of a man of mystery, like his father the secret agent had been in some of the other books.  He should have been smart enough to tell Cleo her plan wasn't going to work.  Then, when he is somewhat crushed by being ostracized by the ton, it seemed ridiculous to me.  I wanted him to have more guts, and not care about the silly ways of the ton.  It seemed like it took him forever to figure out that he was in love with Cleo, and while I was waiting for him, I got bored.  I will keep this book only because I am collecting Regina Scott's books, but it won't be one that I would re-read unless I was really desperate.  She has some much better ones.	2003-02-14
US	53012345	R2B5609JURBW1Z	082173671X	895062761	False Promises	Books	1	1	4	N	N	Arrogant, abusive hero wrecked the story for me	I don't like so-called &quot;romances&quot; where the hero just about rapes the heroine, and then I am supposed to believe that they come to love each other.  The hero takes the heroine's virginity because he thinks she isn't a virgin, and even though he starts the episode by forcing her, she begins to enjoy the intimacy.  Yuck!  Then, he makes an honest woman of her because it was the right thing to do. So, it would have been ok to start forcing himself on the heroine in an angry mood if she hadn't been a virgin?  What an unlikable hero.  This is supposed to be romantic?  I was really disgusted by this whole thing.  The hero was pretty much of a jerk, and the heroine a wimpette, but somehow I was supposed to believe that they were transformed by love into something honorable?  I bought this book because I like reading about war-time romances.  This was a huge disappointment.  I threw the book away and won't bother trying any more by this author.	2003-02-14
US	53012345	R3917FBL4ZLWVP	0821766090	815740581	A Dangerous Dalliance (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Interesting plot, good characters, couple of nit-picks	I bought this book after reading two of Regina Scott's other books, and after reading several reviews of this book.  David, the American-turned-Earl, was an engaging and warm character.  His side-kick, the Ethiopian Asheram, was an unusual character and added a nice flavor.  Hannah, the art-teacher heroine, was shy and retiring, but becomes a tigress when protecting those she loves.  The idea of the hero and heroine going on secret forays into hidden passages to seek for lost art was intriguing.  I only had a couple of nit-picks that kept this from being a 5 star book for me.  First, the villainess was pretty much &quot;over the top.&quot;  She was so wicked that she almost wasn't believable.  And it was incredible how all the smart people in the story took so long to suspect her, even though they knew there was a suspicion that someone had &quot;offed&quot; the previous earl and his heir.  Second, it was hard to believe how all the young maidens who came to the house party suddenly got over their snobbish attitudes and came to the aid of the heroine.  Would be nice if life was like that, but it just didn't seem that credible.  Third, the aspect of art was one of the best parts of the book, but with all the intrigue,it didn't get fully developed, and neither did the love story--both took a back-seat to the villainy.  Still, it was an enjoyable book and is going on my keeper shelf.	2003-02-14
US	53012345	R18OX4OVNLZXIS	0451190297	549940308	A Fresh Perspective (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	1	2	3	N	N	Great idea for a plot, but potential not realized	I really liked the idea of the two main characters being childhood friends, and then falling in love as a adults, being brought together by their mutual love of art.  But, the story turned out to be boring, and even ridiculous in parts.  The idea of bronze sculptures being commissioned by the hero and accidentally having the heroine's head put on these sensual figurines was just unbelievable, and didn't add to the plot(the hero supposedly gave the person who cast the figures a paper with a drawing of the heroine's head on the back and that was how the goof-up was made?)  The book plodded along, and it was not very romantic at all, since it took the hero forever to recognize that he loved the heroine, even though she knew she loved him from the beginning.  The \\"big misunderstanding\\" at the end where the hero accidentally sells a picture that the heroine painted for him was an annoying incident.  The worst thing I can remember about the book was when the hero is pretty much attacked by a over-sexed female out to get him, and she bites his tongue.  It bleeds all over, and he is lisping in pain.  He acts really naive and stupid.  This part made no sense to me at all, made me almost give up on the book, and added nothing to the story.  I have read several of Elisabeth Fairchild's books that I have liked and have rated very highly, but this book is very forgettable.  Don't waste your time on this one.  I would suggest Sugar Plum Surprises, The Holly and the Ivy, and The Silent Suitor, if you want to try three I can think of off-hand.	2003-02-14
US	53012345	R2IYL1SDBLLFHB	082175145X	636214147	Gwen's Christmas Ghost	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Shades of "It's a Wonderful Life"--clever,with a twist!	I bought this book on the strength of some good reviews and having enjoyed previous Kerstan books.  The ghost angle made me a bit leery of the book, because I generally don't like romances with ghosts in them and usually find them to be pretty melodramatic.  However, this was a notable exception.  The aspect of \\"time-travel\\" added history and humor to the plot, which made it more than just a \\"ghost story.\\"  The plot is like \\"It's a Wonderful Life,\\" only in reverse.  Instead of finding out how bad life would have been for others if the hero hadn't been born, this hero, Valerian, finds out how terrible he has made life for people by the bad deeds he did when he was alive and that people would have been better off if he had never been born.  In that sense it is more like Dickens' \\"A Christmas Carol.\\"  The hero was killed in a duel by a the husband of his lover, and his descendants and those of the jealous husband have suffered for 100 years because of the ensuing feud.  For some reason(rather nebulous), Valerian is allowed a month to come back from the netherworld to try to end the feud, and bring contentment to three people--Max and Gwen(the heroine) who are related to the man he shot in the duel, and Dorrie, one of his own future descendants.  How he manages to meet the challenges of this task is very cleverly planned out and penned by the two authors of this book.  The suspense of how the hero would be able to restore peace makes the book a page-turner.  The secondary romance between Max and Dorrie is very sweet.  I did feel that the primary romance between Gwen and Valerian sometimes took a back-seat to the plot of reconcilation, and it wasn't really all that clear what Gwen, a virtuous woman, saw in Valerian, such a rake.  Still, the \\"reforming\\" of Valerian was handled very well, as the reader gets to see him turn from a self-centered, pleasure-driven man, to a man who learns to care about others and even put their needs first.  It was done gradually enough and with sensitivity enough to be believable.  And, at the end, Valerian recognizes that he still has \\"rakish\\" tendencies that he will have to fight in order to stay true to Gwen and to live a better life, which also was realistic.<br />This book is clever, entertaining, and touching.th sensitivity enough to be believable.  And, at the end, Valerian recognizes that he still has \\"rakish\\" tendencies that he will have to fight in order to stay true to Gwen and to live a better life, which also was realistic. <BR>This book is clever, entertaining, and touching.	2003-02-10
US	53012345	R3CMJPJOWL755	0821764837	118753601	My Lady Governess (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Main complaint is the slow start...otherwise entertaining	I devoured the first book I ever read by Wilma Counts in one sitting(The Willful Miss Winthrop).  I bought this book after reading the other one, and I read about 30 pages into it, and set it aside, picking it up once or twice, reading a couple of pages, and setting it down.  Today, after it sat on my bedside stand for about three weeks, I finished it.  It was a good book, overall, but the beginning dragged so much I just couldn't get into it.  After the heroine, Elinor, goes into disguise as a governess to escape a forced marriage, the story stalls for a while.  The father of her charges, Adrian(a lord) has no clue that Elinor is really Lady Elinor.  Elinor and Adrian are slowly attracted to each other.  The plot doesn't really pick up until there is a race to unmask a traitor who is giving information to the French, and finally Elinor and Adrian are able to admit their love for each other.  There wasn't much of a mystery as to who the traitor was(there were a lot of clues that were obvious to the reader, but not to Adrian or Elinor).  I was a bit disappointed too that the children didn't play a bigger part in the book.  I think that the story could have gone well without the spy aspect, focusing more on Adrian's children and Adrian and Elinor's growing affection.  As it was, it was an entertaining book, despite the dragging start, but not one of her most memorable books.  I will keep it, but doubt I will re-read it much.	2003-02-09
US	53012345	R1EUMQ4Z2U0I6M	0451170644	731536622	Three Lords for Lady Anne (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Read it at one sitting, very clever and engaging	I will admit that at first I got a little frustrated with the book, since the hero and heroine don't even meet each other until page 92, and I was wondering whether it would ever get around to the &quot;romance&quot; part!  But, despite the rather slow start, and the fact that at the beginning it was hard to figure out who all the characters were, it turned out to be a highly enjoyable read. Lady Anne has become a governess to support herself and to get away from her odious relatives.  She is something of a bluestocking, as well as being so tall that she towers over many men.  She is independent, intelligent, and strong(just my type of heroine--can't stand the simpering miss type).  Her new charges are twin boys, and they provide much of the humor and tenderness in the book.  I would love to hear what becomes of them when they grow up!  Their guardian, Bronson, Lord Letham, has a very low opinion of women, and no inclination for marriage, and Anne believes that men are pretty much useless and that marriage wrecks a woman's life.  It is so much fun to follow these two along and watch them change their minds.  The dialogue was great.  One of my favorite parts is when Bronson is on his knees to apologize and he says, &quot;...you have brought me to my knees.  I hope you are satisfied.  You may name your price.&quot;  The thing that came to Anne's mind was the line from the fairy story--&quot;I want your firstborn son!&quot;<br />All in all, a highly enjoyable, romantic and funny read.  I am looking forward to reading The Black Widow, which is the story of one of Bronson's friends, Demetrius.  I am sure I won't be disappointed.  Every one of Charlotte Louse Dolan's books have gone on my keeper shelf after I have read them.	2003-02-04
US	53012345	R3KXMKQCEV232T	0449225062	410643216	Snowdrops and Scandalbroth (Regency Romance)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Funny and sweet--a comedy of manners, and of errors!	The premise of the book is certainly unique.  Who would have thought it--a virgin hero who is looked down upon as being less-than-masculine until he gains a reputation for being a rake?  The irony of the plot is one of the keys to why the story is so entertaining.  Two virgins are posing as lovers, and are thus applauded and approved of, but if they admitted to the \\"ton\\" their innocence, they would be scorned. Viscount Chase has to be one of the sweetest fictional heros, and it is so humorous how he damps down his sexual attraction and his affection for the heroine while fighting himself inside his head.  The heroine plays the part of his mistress out of a need for money, but also due to misguided pity for him, thinking that he needs her to demonstrate his virility because he is suffering from an \\"old war wound!\\"  The story does get a bit confusing because there are so many secondary characters, with a jewel-theft mystery thrown in, and it probably could have been fine without as many extra plot threads, but it still comes off very well.  I am not that big a fan of Barbara Metzger since I don't care for her usual rakish hero, but this one is a keeper for me.	2003-02-04
US	53012345	RJV2TUGNHXFOR	1931391904	951473798	Forced Offer	Books	2	10	12	N	Y	Not enough romance, and poor editing did this one in!	I bought this book based on other reader reviews, and thought I would really like it. What disappointed me the most was that I was expected to believe that the hero and heroine barely spoke to each other during the daytime(he being angry at being tricked into marriage, she feeling guilty about letting her mother get away with plotting to \\"force\\" the marriage), yet they had heart-stopping intimate encounters at night, in the dark!  Belinda, the heroine, supposedly fell in love with the hero when she was 13, after accidentally seeing him skinny-dipping?  This is the basis for love?  No, it was infatuation, and the author never really told us what later made the hero so attractive to the heroine(she was an innocent, so sex didn't seem to be a good enough compelling reason to put herself through all she went throught!) There wasn't much about how he was honorable, or even likable, and she wasn't described as bringing warmth or whatever into his life.  She was a timid mouse, and she didn't improve that much over time.  The final thing that really ruined this book for me was the terrible editing.  There were typos, mis-spellings, and the author used hyphens so much it was sometimes difficult to read the sentences.  This book could have been so good, with better editing.  The basic plot was a good one, but the author should have been encouraged to elaborate on the main characters, and show the growth of their love.  The editor also should have cleaned up the typos and other errors before the book went to print.	2003-02-01
US	53012345	RVXH609WNWQG3	0451204824	289469658	One Good Turn (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	1	24	35	N	N	Didn't like the hero or heroine, too disturbing for me	I absolutely love Carla Kelly, and have all her books except this one, which I didn't keep.  I didn't like the hero when he was in Libby's London Merchant, and my feelings didn't change.  I couldn't get a good feeling for why he and the heroine fell in love.  The thing I disliked most was the graphic description of the rape and ultimate murder of the heroine's sister.  I don't think I am particularly squeamish, and I can handle Kelly's descriptions of war-time trauma, but after I read about the assault, it kept haunting me. I think it would have been sufficient to leave more up to imagination.  As it was, it was very disturbing.  That incident, and my lack of feelings for the main characters made this not \\"a keeper\\" for me.  Maybe I am just too sensitive, but that's how I feel.	2003-01-30
US	53012345	R2MJFZY3WV648S	0821761250	373880287	My Darling Valentine (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A fun holiday read--love and laughter guaranteed!	Although I think it is difficult to write a good short love story for an anthology, because the lack of length in a novella makes it difficult to develop plot and characters adequately, this anthology is an exception.  &quot;Miss Delafield Disposes&quot; is not a novella to be taken as a straight-forward romance, but rather to be enjoyed with much laughter! The heroine is being bamboozled by a slick artist, and the hero rushes in to save the day, even though at first he isn't really sure what is going on. There is a lot of &quot;tongue-in-cheek&quot; description and dialogue,and the author has a wicked sense of humor.  Her descriptions are priceless.  One example is when she describes the elderly Lady R--&quot;dressed in rusty brown, she looked for all the world like a potted shrub in dire need of watering!&quot;  The second novella, by Carola Dunn, also was very satisfying.  &quot;The Frost Fair&quot; tells not only of the fun people had when the Thames froze over, but also of the peril when the ice started to melt.  It is a delightfully sweet tale of love in the upper working class, and it will be re-read many times by me.  The third story, &quot;Cupid's Arrow,&quot; was ok, but my least favorite.  The author used the &quot;love at first sight&quot; ploy to explain the romance, and I don't care for it as much as I do when an author shows why the couple grows to care for each other(as in the &quot;Frost Fair,&quot; where they learn about each other while having fun at a fair).  I found the third story to be kind of boring, and probably wouldn't re-read it, while the first and second stories make the book worth buying. If the third story had been better, it would have been a 5 star book.  As it is, it is still a good read.	2003-01-30
US	53012345	R2EDIGUY78SH4M	0821755439	547734729	The Babe And The Baron	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Tender and funny romance, everyone falls in love with baby!	It is hard to write a good romance where the heroine is pregnant with another man's child, but Dunn pulled it off.  Laura, the heroine, was married to a charming but unstable drifter.  He dies in a foolish accident and she is left alone and pregnant.  Enter the hero, Gareth, who is a very honorable lord, and offers to take her into the family since he was related to her husband.  He has concerns about her pregnancy, and deep-rooted fears about the dangers of caring too much for anyone, dating back to his childhood.  The heaviness related to these issues is tempered by some great moments of humor.  The eccentric inventor uncle, who eventually invents a carriage, stroller, and play pen, adds a light touch.  While the story may not be totally historically accurate(I doubt that the hero would have been allowed to be in the room during the delivery), I don't read my romances for strict historic accuracy, and I didn't see any glaring errors that detracted from the story.  It was a touching and fun book, and one that I will definitely re-read over and over again.  The hero's brothers are wonderful, and I would like to see books about their future romances.  The secondary characters are part of what makes the book so charming.	2003-01-30
US	53012345	R1AR4SBC31YN38	0821755439	547734729	The Babe And The Baron	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Tender and funny romance, everyone falls in love with baby!	It is hard to write a good romance where the heroine is pregnant with another man's child, but Dunn pulled it off.  Laura, the heroine, was married to a charming but unstable drifter.  He dies in a foolish accident and she is left alone and pregnant.  Enter the hero, Gareth, who is a very honorable lord, and offers to take her into the family since he was related to her husband.  He has concerns about her pregnancy, and deep-rooted fears about the dangers of caring too much for anyone, dating back to his childhood.  The heaviness related to these issues is tempered by some great moments of humor.  The eccentric inventor uncle, who eventually invents a carriage, stroller, and play pen, adds a light touch.  While the story may not be totally historically accurate(I doubt that the hero would have been allowed to be in the room during the delivery), I don't read my romances for strict historic accuracy, and I didn't see any glaring errors that detracted from the story.  It was a touching and fun book, and one that I will definitely re-read over and over again.  The hero's brothers are wonderful, and I would like to see books about their future romances.  The secondary characters are part of what makes the book so charming.	2003-01-30
US	53012345	R2F4JWIDSH21CF	0446354619	445724249	Smugglers' Summer	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A satisfying read, with great characters	The romance aspect of this book is a bit slim, because most of the story involves intrigue about smugglers, and it isn't until the last few pages that the hero and heroine figure out they love each other.  There are two other secondary romances--one between the heroine's cousin Julia and a political activist, and one between the housekeeper and a smuggler. By the way, in this book, the smugglers are neither bad, nor dangerous, and the main characters are actually cheering for the, which made for an interesting perspective. What made the book most enjoyable was the gradual revealing of the characters' personalities, the fun dialogue, and the playing out of the plot. I laughed out loud when the heroine, Octavia, accidentally becomes &quot;foxed&quot; by drinking spiked cider.  There was humor and mystery in this novel, combined in an effective way.  It isn't so much a &quot;romance&quot; novel as it is a novel with a bit of romance.  A great light read to entertain for several hours.  It is long enough to allow for good development of character and plot, but not weighty at all.  Highly recommended!  I wish the author would write more like this one.	2003-01-29
US	53012345	RS0YMQJ7PPXOC	0451190017	464603130	AN Unlikely Hero (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Great follow-up book, sensitive handling of a disability	This book is a sequel to A Perilous Journey.  It is the story of Gillian's twin, Gilbert.  When I wrote my review of that book, saying that I wanted to see his story, I didn't know it had already been written!  Now I want to see the story of Venetia and Vivian's brother, Nicholas(hint to the author!)  Venetia, the heroine of this book, is much like Gillian, and that is probably why the hero feels so comfortable with her.  She is the more out-going of the two girls, and is focused on protecting her twin Vivian and finding a husband for her.  Vivian suffers from seizures following a head injury in an accident, and someone tries to blackmail the family because in the regency period, such a disability would be considered stigmatic.  The plot revolves around solving this problem, finding a good husband for Vivian, and ultimately in the coming together of Gilbey and Venetia.  The twin girls are daughters of a duke, and really expected to marry higher than a &quot;mere viscount,&quot; which Gilbey is.  The issues of epilepsy and the unfairness of the disparities in social class are handled sensitively and intelligently.  This book was a worthy follow-up to it's successor, which also ranked 5 stars from me, and both are on my &quot;keeper shelf.&quot;  I hope to see more from Gail Eastwood.  She has the ability to make me become a part of the story and cheer for the characters(I generally REALLY like her heros--they are definitely my type, being sensitive, strong, caring, and funny)	2003-01-27
US	53012345	RIPGEGU1YK7JD	0451195329	258788726	The Magnificent Marquess	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Liked the idea of the book, just didn't like the book itself	I was intrigued by the cover description of the book and I generally like Gail Eastwood's book, but this one disappointed me.  The historical aspects about the regency times, and about the hero's travels abroad were good, but I just didn't care enough about the plot and the characters.  The hero had had previous lovers who had died in suspicious circumstances, and eventually the heroine is in danger as well.  The whole plot was just too melodramatic for me to believe in it and get caught up in it.  I should have felt sorry for the hero, losing his past loves, but it was hard for me to take the plot seriously.  Gail Eastwood is an excellent writer--I just don't think this is one of her best books.  Not one for my keeper shelf, although several of her other books have made it there.	2003-01-27
US	53012345	R16UGMJTBCN2K3	0451181891	274600790	A Perilous Journey	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Entertaining, with likeable hero and heroine	I can't get into a book if I don't like the hero and heroine.  This book satisfied me because I liked the characters of the loving couple, and of the heroine's twin brother(I hope he gets a book of his own some day!)  It was a \\"road\\" book, as the hero and the heroine's brother help the heroine run away from her guardian, who has arranged an unwanted marriage for her.  The adventure was run, and I liked the sense of fun the that heroine exhibited, taking a lot in her stride.  There was an definite sizzle of physical attraction between the couple(Lord Brinton was a hero to die for!), but the romance went deeper than that.  They liked each other, as well as loved each other. The villain turned out not to be so terribly villainous, and the unwanted bridegroom wasn't so bad either after all, so it wasn't too melodramatic.  This is definitely going on my \\"keeper\\" shelf.	2003-01-27
US	53012345	R21GWDP6726V1E	0373511639	735114296	Fifth Day Of Christmas (Reader's Choice : The Best of Betty Neels)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	One of Neels' best--a cozy winter read!	I have read almost all of Betty Neel's books and this is one of my favorites.  The plot isn't deep, but the characterization is excellent, and the romance is satisfying.  Yes, this is an \\"old-fashioned\\" book in that the main characters don't lust after each other nor have pre-marital sex.  It is a gentle, thoughtful romance.  My mom, dad, sister, and I have all read this book several times.  One of the sayings that has become a joke in our family comes from the part where the old family retainer tells the couple that the \\"wind took the electricity,\\" and later, we all wonder if the wind brought it back!  It is the well-developed characters that make this book a classic.  It is variation on the snowed-in house party theme, only in this case the characters were accidentally marooned together in a storm, and have to make do.  Julia, the heroine, is an intelligent, independent nurse, and the hero is her forceful counterpart.  I do wish the that the supposed \\"other woman\\" would be exposed for what she is sooner, but even with that frustration, it is still a very enjoyable book.  I am glad that Harlequin re-printed it, since the old copies out there were wearing out.  Now you can get a good used copy at a very reasonable price.	2003-01-27
US	53012345	R1TVNTW3732TA6	0373511639	735114296	Fifth Day Of Christmas (Reader's Choice : The Best of Betty Neels)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	One of Neels' best--a cozy winter read!	I have read almost all of Betty Neel's books and this is one of my favorites.  The plot isn't deep, but the characterization is excellent, and the romance is satisfying.  Yes, this is an \\"old-fashioned\\" book in that the main characters don't lust after each other nor have pre-marital sex.  It is a gentle, thoughtful romance.  My mom, dad, sister, and I have all read this book several times.  One of the sayings that has become a joke in our family comes from the part where the old family retainer tells the couple that the \\"wind took the electricity,\\" and later, we all wonder if the wind brought it back!  It is the well-developed characters that make this book a classic.  It is variation on the snowed-in house party theme, only in this case the characters were accidentally marooned together in a storm, and have to make do.  Julia, the heroine, is an intelligent, independent nurse, and the hero is her forceful counterpart.  I do wish the that the supposed \\"other woman\\" would be exposed for what she is sooner, but even with that frustration, it is still a very enjoyable book.  I am glad that Harlequin re-printed it, since the old copies out there were wearing out.  Now you can get a good used copy at a very reasonable price.	2003-01-27
US	53012345	R2FYWXOB68OO8O	0373310153	958635563	Hint Of Scandal	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Heroine ends up with the wrong man!	By the way, the author is Alberta Sinclair, not Albert, as in the listing.  The premise of this book sounded good.  A &quot;rich cit&quot; heiress had to marry a titled gentleman within the year in order to inherit her father's estate.  So, being very practical, she has a lawyer make up a list of the top eligible suitors.  The villain, who stands to inherit everything in case she fails, pressures her to marry him instead.  The hero, a viscount, finds out about the list from the villain, and gets angry.  Then, the couple is in a compromising situation, and the hero feels that he must marry the heiress.  I didn't like the hero.  The author never explained what attracted the couple to each other, other than physical appearance.  The hero has a &quot;ladybird&quot; on the side, and no mention is made if he is going to give up out-side amours after marriage.  The true hero, in my estimation, was the lord who was in love with the heroine, and even helps the hero go off to rescue the heroine from the villain after he abducts her.  The &quot;other man&quot; was a titled gentleman too, and he even takes her back after she turns him down the first time, and is just using him to protect herself from her feelings for the so-called &quot;hero.&quot;  She even tells him that she is marrying to get her inheritance.  I think she treats him pretty shabbily.  I kept hoping she would get over her infatuation for the main character and end up with the other, better man.  I just couldn't make myself like the hero or the heroine, or believe that they really loved each other.  Not a keeper, in my mind, except as a Harlequin collectible.  I wouldn't re-read it unless I was desperate.	2003-01-24
US	53012345	R33EAKDCCGNUVE	0451187660	367878254	The Reluctant Heiress	Books	1	0	1	N	N	Unappealing hero, not very interesting plot	I disliked this book mainly because the hero was a womanizer, and only a few pages from the end of the book, he is getting ready to make love to his &quot;fancy piece.&quot;  He changes his mind, of course, when he realizes that it is really the heroine that he loves!  Where is the romance in this, I ask?  There was little explanation for what the hero and heroine saw in each other.  The story started out so slowly I got bored.  I tend to like Evelyn Richardson because some of her books have good plots, and well-developed characters.  This isn't one of them.  I would recommend that you read her &quot;The Bluestocking's Dilemma,&quot; rather than wasting your time on this one.	2003-01-24
US	53012345	RG0TZ9ZNNPKQ3	0451198581	716795325	My Lady Nightingale (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Too much historical data, not enough romance	I generally like Evelyn Richardson's books.  They tend to be lengthier and more &quot;wordy&quot; than the average regency(Signet uses small print so that the books stay about the same size).  The musical aspect of this book is what attracted me.  It was interesting to read about the heroine's musical aspirations, and her voice lessons.  However, there was so much historical trivia thrown in, the romance suffered.  There was a lot about the French emigres in Britain.  I don't mind history, I just felt overwhelmed by it and had a hard time staying interested in the story.  I also didn't really care for hearing all about the hero's exploits with his lovers.  It turned me off from the romance between him and the heroine.  I probably will keep this book because of the musical theme, but doubt I will re-read it much, if at all.	2003-01-24
US	53012345	R33R1ESNUC2AGN	0821762184	162689742	The Bridegroom And The Baby (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not as good as some of her others	I like Marcy Stewart, based on reading Charity's Gambit, and My Lord Footman.  Those were, in my estimation, 4 star books.  However, this one didn't please me in the same way.  I never really got into the characters or grew to care for them.  I felt that too much time was spent on dealing with the &quot;mystery&quot; of who the baby was, and all that.  The romance wasn't developed fully enough.  I wish more time had been spent showing how the hero and heroine grew to care for each other.  There wasn't anything terrible wrong with this book, but I just found it didn't hold my attention, and although I have kept the other books I mentioned, I discarded this one.  A light read--not bad, but &quot;nothing to write home about!&quot;	2003-01-15
US	53012345	R3HTZ8K0194ZEQ	0821762184	162689742	The Bridegroom And The Baby (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not as good as some of her others	I like Marcy Stewart, based on reading Charity's Gambit, and My Lord Footman.  Those were, in my estimation, 4 star books.  However, this one didn't please me in the same way.  I never really got into the characters or grew to care for them.  I felt that too much time was spent on dealing with the &quot;mystery&quot; of who the baby was, and all that.  The romance wasn't developed fully enough.  I wish more time had been spent showing how the hero and heroine grew to care for each other.  There wasn't anything terrible wrong with this book, but I just found it didn't hold my attention, and although I have kept the other books I mentioned, I discarded this one.  A light read--not bad, but &quot;nothing to write home about!&quot;	2003-01-15
US	53012345	R2DX5KESCR8D9U	0821745379	240425475	Charity's Gambit (Regency Romance)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Love and good music--what more could you want?	I have to admit that the mystery part of the book was pretty predictable.  Still, I liked the main characters, and the music aspect was a nice addition.  Both the hero and heroine are musical, and that is what draws them together. I liked the book for the way the author showed why the lovers were attracted to each other and what kept them together. These characters show up again in another book, My Lord Footman.  This book doesn't have a deep plot, and don't expect the usual regency fare of the &quot;London Season.&quot;  There were a few emotionally &quot;harrowing&quot; moments towards the end as an old mystery is solved, and long-held beliefs are shattered, but it still was a pretty &quot;light&quot; read overall.  This one went on my keeper shelf.	2003-01-15
US	53012345	RKF2LU0C94U61	0821748777	444331983	My Lord Footman	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Fun light read---the lord in disguise, the lady in despair	This is one of those fun books that reads quickly.  The heroine finds herself attracted to a forbidden lover, her footman!  There is a good secondary romance between her blind sister, Rissa, and Sebastian, a character from Charity's Gambit(we also get to meet up again with the heroine and hero from that book as well).  I'm not sure about the believability of a lord who hires himself out as a private investigator, but if you can suspend your doubts, it makes for an interesting plot.  I was a bit disappointed that the &quot;scottish&quot; footman didn't act or sound more scottish, but all in all it was a cute read, and one that I put on my keeper shelf.	2003-01-15
US	53012345	R1X5Z47QA80LWU	0802712037	700720879	The Frog Earl (A Regency Romance)	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Worth finding an out-of-print title,unique heroine,fun plot	I was a little hesitant to pay a bit more to get a copy of this out-of-print romance, but it was worth it.  The heroine, Mimi, is half Indian(her grandfather is a rajah).  She is unique and it is entertaining to follow her through her escapades as she tries to find a suitor for her friend Harriet, the vicar's daughter.  Everyone is after Mimi for her dowry, so isn't looking at Harriet.  The hero is also similarly plagued--he is a lord, and heir to wealth, but has had his heart broken by a fortune-hunter, and is unappreciated by his family.  So, the lord goes in disguise, and it takes a kiss from &quot;Princess&quot; Mimi to set him free from his spell.  The secondary romance between Harriet and her eventually successful suitor(won't spoil it by letting you know who it is!) adds a nice touch and it is like getting two romances for the price of one.  Highly recommended!	2003-01-15
US	53012345	R1OGU1PO3AJVX2	0802712037	700720879	The Frog Earl (A Regency Romance)	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Worth finding an out-of-print title,unique heroine,fun plot	I was a little hesitant to pay a bit more to get a copy of this out-of-print romance, but it was worth it.  The heroine, Mimi, is half Indian(her grandfather is a rajah).  She is unique and it is entertaining to follow her through her escapades as she tries to find a suitor for her friend Harriet, the vicar's daughter.  Everyone is after Mimi for her dowry, so isn't looking at Harriet.  The hero is also similarly plagued--he is a lord, and heir to wealth, but has had his heart broken by a fortune-hunter, and is unappreciated by his family.  So, the lord goes in disguise, and it takes a kiss from &quot;Princess&quot; Mimi to set him free from his spell.  The secondary romance between Harriet and her eventually successful suitor(won't spoil it by letting you know who it is!) adds a nice touch and it is like getting two romances for the price of one.  Highly recommended!	2003-01-15
US	53012345	R26PR6FN7Y1UBA	0451174690	815370755	The Highland Lord (Signet)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Nothing like a good Scottish &quot;fling&quot; to warm the heart!	This book was a pleasant way to pass the evening.  The hero and heroine were likable, and the author spent some time sketching out why they were attracted to each other, beyond physical appearance.  It may stretch credulity a bit to think that the heroine, who is a London member of the ton, will so easily give up her former glamorous life to live in the wilds of Scotland, but all in all, the story still worked.  There was a nice secondary romance between the heroine's cousin, and the hero's sister, as well.  There was enough historical background to help explain the problems of a relationship between an English woman and a proud highland lord, but not so much to be overwhelming. The only thing that kept this from being a five was that the plot was a bit too simple.  It would have been nice to have a bit more excitement in it.  As it is, though, it is going on my keeper shelf, to be re-read as a &quot;comfort&quot; read during some long winter night!	2003-01-14
US	53012345	R2QYCZTBH12JK9	0821744429	616063002	AN Inconvenient Engagement (A Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	1	3	5	N	N	Didn't like the characters, didn't like the plot	My main problem with the book is that I don't like &quot;rakes&quot; as heros.  If you do, then maybe you will like this book.  I don't like heroes that sleep around and then suddenly reform when they find the &quot;right woman.&quot;  I didn't particularly care for the heroine either--she seemed too slavish to the ways of the ton for me.  I prefer a heroine that is more original, and even a bit eccentric.  I thought the bedroom scene after the wedding was a bit too much, focusing a lot on the physical aspects, but not very romantic--I'm not big on the &quot;deflowering maidens&quot; descriptions, in general)I have enjoyed other Joy Reed books very much(my favorite so far is The Duke and Miss Denny,which I would recommend instead of this book).  If this had been the only Joy Reed book I had read, I wouldn't have bothered with others.  As it is, I have found out that she has written much more enjoyable ones, so I haven't given up on her.  At least two are on my keeper shelf(the one I just mentioned, and Twelfth Night), even though I discarded this one.	2003-01-13
US	53012345	R2T82WT804NDMT	0821751476	761314443	Twelfth Night (A Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Cozy winter holiday romantic read	The best part of this book is that the author shows how and why the main characters grow to like and then love each other.  After a compromising situation where they are stranded in a snowstorm, they have a mock engagement that turns out leading to a marriage of convenience(which becomes definitely convenient for the pair as they enjoy conjugal bliss--tastefully done, by the way, being sensually described, but not overly graphic!)  The theme of the Christmas season adds to the atmosphere.  There are some likable secondary characters(I hope to see a sequel about the hero's sister, Lady Diana, who is delightfully eccentric and vows never to marry--that would be a good story!)The male villain who originally abducted the heroine turns out to be not so bad after all.  My only major complaint, and why I gave the novel 4 stars, not 5, was that the book went on too long.  It should have ended after the couple realized that they cared about each other.  The part afterwards, where the villainess(the former fiancee of the hero) claims to have had her child illegitimately by the hero) and the subsequent problems, was unnecessary.  It was difficult to believe that our intelligent heroine would fall for all the lies, given what she already knew about the deviousness of the villainess.  Even if it were true, it seems like the heroine would have forgiven the hero for prior indiscretion, and at least been open to his explanations.  I felt like the book went on for several chapters after the story should have ended.  Anyway, still a good read overall, with a likeable hero and heroine.	2003-01-13
US	53012345	R2HHYVVVEFMN0H	0821729942	853295030	The Wicked Count (A Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Wickedly Funny!	The heroine is very fond of reading trashy romance novels, and wishes that her respectable and responsible fiance would take a leaf from the fictional &quot;Count Ruerdi&quot; and be more romantic.  The hero finds out about her wishes, and tries to satisfy them, with hilariously funny results.  There are several laugh-out-loud moments in the book, and it makes for a funny, yet romantic story.  Eventually, of course, the heroine realizes that there is more to love than wild, dangerous adventures(and that being locked up in a gothic castle with a ghost might not be as much fun as just reading about it), and appreciates the true romantic nature of her future spouse.  Definitely a book for my keeper shelf. I wish this writer would write more books.  I have enjoyed this one, and The Easter Disguise is great too.	2003-01-12
US	53012345	R35D6D564WL9B	0821751999	677586914	Valentine Love	Books	1	3	4	N	N	Don't waste your money, or your time!	I bought this book because I like holiday-themed romances, and because I generally like Sara Blayne novels(she is the author of one of the three novellas).  This book was a big disappointment!  Blayne's story was about a woman who was unwilling to give up her freedom to any man, so she offers to be the hero's mistress(he is engaged to someone else).  I didn't find that plot to be very romantic, and I thought the intrigue/danger added in was unnecessary and melodramatic.  The second story,by Jo Ann Ferguson, was a ridiculous one about a hero who is in on a plot to provide fake drama to the heroine's life(he \\"rescues\\" her from pretend dangers, etc.)  Another not very romantic plot, in my mind, and not very well-written anyway.  I have read other Ferguson stories that were better, so I expected more.  The third story,the worst of all, by Lois Stewart, was about a woman who dumps her husband on the wedding day after the wedding when his mistress(former mistress, but she thinks the mistress is current) tell her the husband married her for her money and is still going to continue the affair with the mistress.  The mistress and the new husband have been having an affair for years, despite the fact that the mistress is married.  Yuck!  What a slimy plot!  I didn't care about any of the characters, except for the relative of the main charater who unfortunately has a miscarriage. And what does our wonderful \\"heroine\\" do but try to snap her out of her sorrow by telling her not to feel sorry for herself and that she is certain she will be able to get pregnant again!  With friends like that, who needs enemies?  This woman deserves her cad of a husband, whom she ends up with at the close of the novella.  The novella was one of the worst I have ever read, and I certainly wouldn't read anything else by the author again. I couldn't believe that all three of the novellas in this book were so un-romantic, in my mind, and not the least bit enjoyable.  For good Sara Blayne, try her \\"Noble\\" series(Noble Heart, Noble Resolve, etc.)le\\" series(Noble Heart, Noble Resolve, etc.)	2003-01-06
US	53012345	R3422O0C0GSJ1H	0821757105	247782567	Saint's Haven (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	1	1	1	N	N	Simply awful--a big disappointment!	I ordered this out-of-print book after reading another by this author, A Perilous Attraction.  I had enjoyed that book.  I can't believe the two books were written by the same author.  This book was bad from the beginning.  The first thing I noticed was that I never felt like the story was \\"real.\\"  The characters and plot didn't ring true.  Most disturbing was that 2/3 of the way through the book, the heroine was infatuated by the ultimately murderous villain--kissing him and thinking about marrying him!  Where is the romance in that?  She abruptly gets over him and realizes she really loves the hero,with little explanation for the switch.  Since the story was supposed to be about the struggle to save an orphanage, I expected more about the orphans.  There was little character development(we are supposed to believe that all of a sudden the kids want to call the hero \\"Papa\\" even though they didn't have much to do with him up to that point.)  Several murders were thrown in, in a gothic way(the \\"mad\\" wife of a secondary character, running around at night in her white gown, was just too \\"Jane Eyre\\" for me!)  This is one of the worst regencies I have ever read, and went into the trash, even though \\"A Perilous Attraction\\" is on my \\"keeper shelf.\\"  I will try more by this author, and hope that Saint's Haven was just an aberration!	2002-12-28
US	53012345	R3BVMVZYK951E1	0451207718	822638423	AN Inconvenient Heir (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Danger and romance--an exciting read!	I am a fan of Martha Kirkland, and have most of her books.  This is one of her best.  Dee sets out to protect the orphaned baby of a friend, and thinks the hero, the Major, may want the child dead in order to get his inheritance. So, for a while, the heroine and the heroine don't trust each other, and are at cross-purposes, yet are attracted to each other.  The sensuality is subtle, but you can feel the tension between them. There is good character development, and it shows what the couple likes about each other, so it is about love, not just lust.  There are fights, gun shots, intrigues, and the couple goes on the run together to escape the people who murdered the child's father.  Don't want to say more and spoil the plot!  The writing is good--polished enough so that my English teacher mom would approve!  I enjoyed this book and heartily recommend it.	2002-12-26
US	53012345	R1G4RMGEUOTBDK	0451206959	19020224	The Wedding Journey (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Love tested, tried, and true--gritty, and great!	I had read a review of this book elsewhere, so I knew enough about it not to expect this to be a book about your average &quot;honeymoon&quot; wedding trip.  This book certainly isn't for the faint-hearted, because it graphically depicts the horrors of war, but there is enough humor and tenderness to add a balance and relieve the starkness.  It was great to read a book with a military doctor as a hero(having been one myself, and being married to one I am a bit biased!)  I feel that Jesse's love and hate relationship with his profession accurately describes what physicians often feel.  The hero and the heroine were so busy helping patients, and fighting for their own lives, that there wasn't a lot of time for them to spend alone with each other, but the author portrayed how their love started and grew with time, in a masterful manner.  Their love was deeper than physical attraction, although the sensual tension between them  was evident, and was consumated in an earthy, yet romantic way.  I really liked some of the secondary characters, and felt that they were presented with their flaws and their assets in a way that was realistic.  All the characters were human, and most of them were likeable.  The villain was a bit over-the-top, and the negligent father of the heroine was reformed a bit too thoroughly, too quickly.  Despite these few nit picks I have with the plot, the whole thing worked together very successfully to make a tender love story and a gripping drama that will linger in my mind for a long time, until I next re-read this book which will be on my keeper shelf.	2002-12-17
US	53012345	R1YN3UCYHJZB4I	082175890X	258462645	The Matchmaking Ghost (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Harmless fluff for a light read	I didn't really dislike this book, but this isn't a \\"keeper\\" and not one I would re-read.  The ghost aspect of this book was pretty silly.  I have read other \\"ghost\\" romances, and those were redeemed by having some humor in them, but this one didn't.  I also was disappointed that more wasn't made of the issue of the friendship between the hero and the heroine's brother, and how the death of the brother affected both of them.  I didn't feel like I really got \\"into the heads\\" of the main characters enough to grow to care for them--too much time was spent on traipsing all over the house for the disappearing ghosts.  This book is like cotton candy--you can read it through once if you don't have anything better to do, but it doesn't satisfy for very long.  I think that the author probably could do a lot better.  Her writing was good, but the plot and characters weren't very well-developed.	2002-12-05
US	53012345	R1MEA5LO5THX6Y	0451188004	859644009	An Unsuitable Match	Books	1	7	11	N	N	Not a likeable or believable &quot;reforming the rake&quot; story	I have read some good books where a former &quot;rake&quot; is reformed to become a likeable, lovable hero.  This isn't one of them.  The hero is a drunken wastrel who is tortured by memories of his wartime past.  But, he isn't a worthy hero who was honorable,did his wartime duties, and then had difficulty dealing with his memories.  He was a womanizing soldier who was derelict to duty.  He doesn't truly reform in his attitudes--he just becomes &quot;respectable&quot; due to his love for the heroine, which isn't very credible. When the heroine first met him, he was drunk and throwing up all over the place.  Not very romantic, to me anyway.  Unfortunately, I didn't like him any better by the end of the book.  I didn't think he had any redeeming qualities, and I thought the heroine was a weak-willed miss who was attracted by lust, but not by love.  I really did want to like this book, but I just couldn't like the characters or believe the supposed changes in them.  I won't be trying any more by this author.	2002-12-05
US	53012345	R2UCBA2ABF5LDM	0373511698	841557702	The Admiral's Daughter: A Regency Romance	Books	1	1	4	N	N	Threw this one into the trash	I wish I had read all the reviews on Amazon before wasting money on this book.  I didn't like the hero or the heroine.  The pre-marital sex and the attitude of the heroine at the end wasn't consistent with the mores of the era.  Sure, the hero was a womanizing rake, but I just didn't buy the way the heroine gave in so easily to passion.  It was one of those, \\"I've slept around a lot, but now that I've met you, I won't do that any more!\\"  I thought this book would be a good historical book on regency naval issues, but there was little about that.  I won't be buying any more by this author.	2002-12-05
US	53012345	R1KX50RKNSDV91	0821764187	926731171	AN Unlikely Father (Zebra Regency Romance)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	My least favorite from Lynn Collum--not memorable	I expected a lot more humor and tenderness.  I agree with the other reader who said she didn't really care for the characters.  The heroine was ok, but I thought the hero was too much of a rake, and I really expected the children to add more humor and warmth to the story.  I wish there had been more depth to the story, and that it had showed how the hero changed from a wild bachelor into becoming a caring father.  As it was, the real father turns up to be alive at the end anyway.<br />I expect Lynn Collum's books to be warm and often funny, and this one just didn't meet up with my expectations.  I will probably keep it just because I am keeping her others, but I doubt I would re-read it unless I had nothing else to read.  I am sure that there is much more to come from Lynn in the future as far as enjoyable reads--this just isn't one of them, in my opinion.	2002-11-14
US	53012345	R2JIDT9IFSG7RB	0515087998	643571313	Her Man of Affairs	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Sweet, old-fashioned romance--no problem with the brogue!	I have to admit that I am a sucker for old-fashioned, \\"sweet\\" romances.  This one is definitely a keeper for me, and ranks up there with the best of Mansfield, in my estimation.  I didn't have any problem with the Scottish brogue, but that is because I am a lover of all things scottish, and I have read so many books with brogue in them that I already knew a lot of the words.  Besides, they were either explained, or easy to figure out from the context.  I thought the hero to be a true hero--gentle, warm, funny, and honorable.  I liked the fact that he became fond of the heroine's family members, and that they reciprocated his feelings.  The heroine was a bit arrogant at the beginning, and the author did a good job of showing how she had her faults revealed to her and how she had a change of heart about things.  This book was a \\"clean\\" read and reminded me of some of my favorite old-fashioned romances.  Definitely going on to my \\"keeper\\" shelf after my mom finishes reading it!	2002-11-13
US	53012345	R3T9HMHBM6VISR	0451198417	994372884	The Holly and the Ivy	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	A satisfying Christmas book, but not all sugar and sweetness	I expected this book to be an entertaining bit of Christmas fluff.  I was surprised to find that the book wasn't particularly merry for the most part, but actually dealt very realistically with issues of bereavement, loneliness, betrayal, and rejection, which contrast with the outward happiness of the holiday season.  This book really took you inside the minds and hearts of the two main characters.  When though Lord &quot;Thorn&quot; does a dishonorable thing, you are privy to his inner struggles and feelings of guilt.  You know that he just wants someone to keep him from his lonliness.  This was a very thought-provoking book that touches upon what love really means.	2002-11-10
US	53012345	RKB8IE5218R11	0451195744	338467605	Keeper of the Swans (Signet Regency Romance)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great setting, lost points only for being too melodramatic	I am a sucker for sentimental, touching romance. I really loved the setting, and the parts about the swans were unusual and interesting.  The only thing that kind of spoiled the whole effect was that I found the abduction and incarceration of the hero to be too melodramatic for me(and I usually tolerate melodrama well!)  It just didn't ring true for some reason.  I felt that it was over-done. I do like the writing style of the writer, and will try some of her other books.  I probably will keep this book, just because it is unusual, but is isn't one I would tend to re-read as often as some of my other \\"keeper\\" books.	2002-11-09
US	53012345	R1L1JE223XC8GN	0425053628	987397578	Frost Fair	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Sweet and funny regency story	This is one of my favorite Mansfield books.  It is sweet and funny.  The secondary characters are well-developed and you really feel like you become part of the house party that is described.  The romance never goes deeper than kisses, so if you are looking for sensual romance, this isn't the book for you, but if you like romances that don't make you blush, this is for you.  I especially liked the way the characters discovered things about themselves that they didn't really want to face up to, and how it made them mature.  The description of the frost fair on the Thames was very interesting.  This is a light-hearted &quot;keeper&quot; for my shelf--definitely a<br />&quot;feel-good&quot; read, a comfort food like mac and cheese.  Great for warming up a cold winter day!	2002-11-06
US	53012345	R25FRDN5ANBC0	0515087424	271941915	The Phantom Lover	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Don't be misled by the title--there's much more to the story	I bought this book after reading a couple of Elisabeth Mansfield books.  I was kind of &quot;turned off&quot; by the title at first, thinking this was going to be some sort of sappy ghost story.  It turned out to be more light-hearted than some Mansfield stories, in that there was a lot of humor--I particularly loved the funny dialogues between the heroine and the &quot;phantom.&quot;  But, it was also serious in the way it addressed the issue of how having a physical disability can affect the way a person views themselves and how others view them.  This was a funny, sweet, and touching book.  I loved it and it will definitely be on my &quot;keeper&quot; shelf.  By the way, if you are looking for a &quot;sensual read,&quot; don't look here.  This book is so &quot;clean&quot; you could let anyone you know borrow it without blushing, yet there is no doubt about the potent physical attraction between the main characters. To top it all off, the hero and heroine not only love each other, but they have fun personalities and appreciate each others sense of humor.  Great feisty heroine and tender hero!  Highly recommended!	2002-10-09
US	53012345	R14PCRZBCG8N8S	0373036930	836013950	THE BRIDEGROOM'S VOW (WHITE WEDDINGS)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A hero who is celibate...imagine!	The premise of how and why the bridegroom made his initial vow is not that believable, but it makes for a good story, with a lot of chemistry between the hero and heroine.  I am a fan of Rebecca Winters, and while this isn't one of my absolute favorites(my favorite was her &quot;Bachelor Dad&quot; series--hard to top those!) it was still an enjoyable read.	2002-06-19
US	53012345	RFTWP6Q96OJDB	0373511477	419390470	Tangled Autumn  (Best of Betty Neels reprint)	Books	5	18	22	N	N	One of my favorite Betty Neels books--great to see it back!	This is one of Betty Neels' earlier books and it is one of her best.  For those who like her formula romances of &quot;Dutch doctor and English nurse fall in love,&quot; this one is a winner. Ok, so the hero is the traditional &quot;tall dark and handsome&quot; kind,and their aren't alot of surprises in the plot, but the plot is nicely spiced with medical situations and the descriptions of the scenery are appealing. Sometimes I can't figure out why certain Neels books are selected for re-release, because they weren't among her best, but this one is an excellent choice and for people who enjoy Neels and/or medical romances, bringing back an old favorite will give them the chance to enjoy a Neels classic which has been hard to find in its vintage state.	2001-06-15
US	53012345	R3PRLD0XV969PI	0373511469	325284804	Not Once but Twice	Books	5	26	27	N	N	An &quot;Oldie but Goodie&quot; returns to the bookstores!	This is not one of Neels' earliest books, but it is still one of her best.  A good choice for the &quot;Reader's Choice&quot; series!  The loving couple in this book shows up again in another one of her books, &quot;A Girl Named Rose,&quot; I believe, and it was after reading that book I went back to read this story again(I had it in its original printing).  It has the traditional Dutch doctor/English nurse formula, but there were some nice plot twists that livened things up.  The character development is good, and the author lets you know why the hero and the heroine appealed to each other, based on their personalities and not just surface things like physical appearance.  They were likable characters and made you care about what happened to them.  As always, Betty Neels provides a wholesome read.  If you are looking for a romance that doesn't make you blush, look no further--try out Betty Neels!	2001-06-15
US	53012345	R38DELCU40DGAQ	0373158939	80272036	An Ideal Wife (Harlequin Romance, 3647)	Books	4	4	12	N	N	Gently entertaining but not one of Neels' best...	This isn't one of Betty Neels' most memorable books.  I read it last month and had to look it over to recall the details.  It was a gentle, &quot;clean&quot; romance with a pretty predictable plot.  I am a bit biased because I much prefer her earlier English nurse/Dutch doctor romances.  For those who haven't had a chance to really &quot;experience&quot; Betty Neels, Harlequin is coming out with a series of reprints of some of her earlier novels under &quot;The Best of Betty Neels&quot; series.  Next month Tangled Autumn is coming out, and in the fall, The Fifth Day of Christmas will be out.  These are two of my favorite classics.  An Ideal Wife is a sweet little book, but doesn't have the memorable characters or plot of some of the other Neels books.  Entertaining, and worth the few dollars it cost, but not one that will be on the top of my list to re-read.	2001-05-31
US	53012345	R1EZP3BSSDZAAI	1576736423	399001011	The Guardian (The O'Malley Series #2)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Couldn't put it down, couldn't get anything else done!	Dee Henderson tackles the difficult problem of why prayers aren't always answered the way we think they should be, and the bigger issue of struggling to reconcile the concept of an all-powerful and loving God in a hurting world.  She does it without handing out platitudes. Even though it is painful to vicariously experience the losses her fictional characters experience, things like murder, cancer, and heartbreak are a part of real life, and she doesn't try to shield us from them in her stories.  The realism of things not always turning out totally &quot;happily ever after&quot; makes the difficulties her fictional characters go through much more inspirational to the reader.  Dee Henderson has a knack for combining her characters' spiritual journeys with a gripping mystery full of drama and emotion.  She writes fiction that rings true because it has laughter as well as sorrow, and her characters are ones which the reader can identify with. The O'Malley family of this series is a family that everyone would love to be part of, and I can't wait until the next book comes out to hear more!	2001-03-01
US	53012345	R35HRGS924D5A6	1576736202	417054289	True Devotion (Uncommon Heroes, Book 1)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	A salute to love!	As a former Navy officer, I am so pleased to find a book where military  people and the military way of life are addressed in a realistic way.  The  combination of romance, suspense, and inspiration worked in this book.  I  found the characters to be believable, and therefore so engaging that I  couldn't put the book down because they were so real I just had to find out  what happened to them!  The choice to try to follow God's ethics while  working in the arena of the military is a difficult one, and I enjoyed  watching Kelly and Joe struggle with that issue.  Can't wait for the next  book in this series and in the O'Malley series!	2000-08-25
US	53012345	R1N7MS2QQYSLXK	1576734064	889127013	The Decision (The Amish Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Couldn't put it down, didn't get anything done!	I loved this book.  The mystery wasn't that mysterious, but the love story was what made the book so good.  I appreciated the way the hero, who was in wheelchair, was portrayed in a very positive manner. I would ask him to  marry me if I could!  The author also deals with the Amish in a very  sensitive way that shows she respects them and their beliefs.  The heroine  was a feisty nurse, who wasn't afraid to fight for her man.  It was a bit  difficult to get used to the story being written in first person by the  heroine, since that isn't the norm for most books and made it seem kind of  old-fashioned at first, but it grew on me.  I would love to read more books  by this author and I know I will will re-read this book many times.  The  religious issues were handled in a straight-forward but not  &quot;preachy&quot; way.  Can't say enough good about this book!	2000-04-13
US	53012345	RPQLKADFU1908	0373870310	575319333	Shelter of His Arms (Love Inspired #31)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Couldn't put it down!	The author combined romance and suspense to keep me turning the pages!  I fell in love with her strong sensitive hero(don't tell my hubby!)  I liked the combination of romance and spiritual concepts -- it worked well in this  book.  I will want to read other books by this author.	2000-01-21
