US	53013446	R2HY6V5DKVQWBM	0765341468	289518155	The Return of Santiago (Tor Science Fiction)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Amusing Pulp	I like Mike Resnick's space-based dime Westerns, probably for the same reasons that historical readers liked the original dime Westerns.  Resnick's larger-than-life characters, with their outsize names (Tyrannosaur Bailey, the Black Death and Accidental Barnes are but three) and bizarre talents, are magnetic, and their hyperbolic adventures are luridly compelling.  But Resnick, a writer of exceptional technical skill when he wants to be, is definitely not trying to be William Shakespeare when he writes stuff like this, the original Santiago, or the Oracle trilogy. <br /> <br />Compared to the first Sanitago, this long-delayed sequel has a more complicated, but more troublesome, plot.  I know that Resnick intentionally glosses over a lot of details he's fully capable of writing out if he wanted, just to keep things simple and broad-stroke like the tall takes he's emulating.  But even making allowances, some of the plot can be hard to swallow.  For instance, it's hard to buy that our hero the Rhymer, who is trying to re-create the biggest secret of all time, does so by telling the details of that secret to practically everyone he meets. <br /> <br />Still, plot is not the point of this fast-reading book anyway.  The point is to see what happens when Jackrabbit Willowby meets the One-Armed Bandit, or who would win if Joshua Silvermane fought the giant aliens Tweedledee and Tweedledum.  Mike Resnick is the only guy who writes stuff like this any more, and I'm happy to have it on any terms.	2005-09-26
US	53013446	R23DELMDZ5GZJX	0765303086	124646762	A Scholar of Magics (College of Magics)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Pleasant	Caroline Stevermer's follow-up to her minor classic A College of Magics is more a showcase for its settings than for its story: it lacks its predecessor's driving narrative force.  And it has the disadvantage that Terry Pratchett has already done a well-received series in which magic is taught at a gentle parody of the British boarding school.  But Stevermer's clever writing and unsurpassed sense of place still makes this a worthwhile read.  Glasscastle, the magical college, is fully realized and is the kind of place the reader will very much want to visit.  Furthermore, the creepy insane asylum of St. Hubert's, where part of the book takes place, is imaginative, well written, and quite disturbing -- Stevermer is much better at obscure psychological horror than I would have expected given her past work.  I liked this book and recommend it. <br /> <br />But I was moved to write this review to correct a previous one that said this \\"hilarious\\" book has to do with a dopey married magician, a chocolate pot, and adventures on the Continent.  This must have been written about another book and posted here in error.  There are no dopey magicians here who had adventures with chocolate pots in any prior books, this book is witty and charming but not intended as broad comedy, and no action whatsoever takes place on the Continent: it's all set in England.  If you were looking for the chocolate pot book, whatever it is, this is not that book.  If you know Stevermer's work and that review confused you, just disregard it.	2005-09-21
US	53013446	RPV8GHS6869Y8	0393060454	577480563	The Plot: The Secret Story of The Protocols of the Elders of Zion (Will Eisner Library (Hardcover))	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Eisner Always Expanded the Boundaries of Sequential Art	Even in old age, comics genius Will Eisner, the pioneer of the graphic novel, was not afraid to try new things.  The Plot is his only foray into graphic history.  In it, he tells the tale of the Protocols of the Elders of Zion, a fraudulent document often offered by anti-Semites to prove that Jews have a secret plan to take over the world.  Eisner takes us from its inception as an effort to influence Czar Nicholas of Russia to take a harder line against Western reform, through its later debunking, to its remarkable resurrections in the hands of the ignorant to this day. <br /> <br />Eisner presents comic-book dramatizations of key chapters in the history of the Protocols, interspersed with occasional pages of heaviliy illustrated text.  In the middle of the book he adds great textual detail, comparing the Protocols side by side with passages from an obscure French book of political protest.  The lengthy comparison is solid proof that the Protocols, supposed to be the minutes of a secret meeting of Jewish conspirators, is actually a thinly disguised plagarization of the French book intended as a satire of Emperor Napoleon III, with Jews replacing the French Emperor as the villain. <br /> <br />The comparisons are, in my opinion, the most valuable part of Eisner's book.  He selects them well, and their quantity shows that the similarity is more than mere coincidence.  But, as Eisner observes in the later portions of the book, the Protocols have been thoroughly debunked before.  The invulnerable ignorance of anti-Semites has always caused the Protocols to rise again as a new generation discovers them anew and accepts them uncritically because they validate pre-existing prejudices. <br /> <br />As for the rest - well, though Eisner gets credit for trying, this kind of subject makes for a very exposition-heavy comic book.  Eisner is the best, doing the best with what he has, but no one is likely to want to read this graphic history for pure entertainment.  Still, thoughit is an imperfect experiment as a work of sequential art, this book, Eisner's final work and a labor of love, deserves a place next to Denying History on the shelf of anyone concerned about Holocaust denial and other fallacies of Nazi sympathizers.	2005-07-29
US	53013446	R29LJZ9RJKH9KO	158754105X	832408663	The Face In The Frost	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Charming Yet Spooky	This splendid little fantasy gem, the only adult-oriented fiction by children's author John Bellairs, mixes two rare moods.  Bellairs's genial and charismatic protagonists, wizards Prospero (no, not that one) and Roger Bacon, contribute warmth and wit to the novel, while the nameless horror that begins to stalk Prospero is every bit as creepy as anything H.P. Lovecraft or W.H. Hodgson ever dreamed up. <br /> <br />As it turns out, the kind and simple heroes and the vile and alien villain are two great tastes that taste great together.  The delightful characters involved me in the story in a way the flat ciphers who generally inhabited Lovecraft's stuff never did, enhancing the eerieness.  And the fact that these lovely characters were battling such disturbing phenomena increased my respect for them, enhancing their charisma. <br /> <br />Bellairs also has a terrific writing style -- simple, spare, yet highly evocative, and with an unsurpassed eye for detail.  And the book features cute illustrations by Marilyn Fitschen (the one of Prospero's house is worth the price of admission all by itself).  The Face in the Frost is either a minor classic or a major one -- I'm just sorry it took me this long to get around to reading it.	2005-06-10
US	53013446	R3GHYSQ24T4EKE	B00005WIPU	595049184	Operation Sea Lion : the projected invasion of England in 1940, an account of the German preparations and the British countermeasures	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A witty history intended for reading for pleasure	Ian Fleming's brother Peter wrote this charming account of German amphibious invasion plans after Dunkirk, and Britain's plans to repel any invasion they might try.  Fleming was peripherally involved in these plans, having been assigned during the dangerous post-Dunkirk period to preparing to wage guerrilla warfare behind enemy lines if the Boche took the beaches and moved inland, but this book is not a personal account but a broad history of the political, military, and psychological factors that went into invasion preparations on both sides, and the final German decision to back off. <br /> <br />Contrary to other reviews, this is not a book about the Battle of Britain.  In Fleming's chapter on the Battle of Britain, he notes that the subject is covered extensively elsewhere and he only gives it attention as it relates to the Germans' plans for what they'd do after they won that battle, and on why they decided not to invade.  It's more about what might have happened than about what did happen. <br /> <br />Fleming's favorite themes are the indomitability of the English mood at the time (which he amusedly puts down as much to cultural momentum as to courage) and Hitler's fatal misjudgment of it.  He makes a convincing case that Hitler put off invading because he thought, wildly incorrectly, that the British were terrified and on the verge of making terms.  He also persuasively posits that it was ironically good for the Reich that Hitler hesitated to implement Operation Sea Lion, because the invasion plan was doomed to fail.  But Fleming's theses aside, this book is best read for his evocative and witty description of Britain's national mood between Dunkirk and the Battle of Britain -- a mood he underlines with illustrations drawn from the cartoons in contemporary Punch magazines.  You can't help but respect the British and envy their courage after reading this entertaining book.	2005-05-01
US	53013446	R12XM9NGBX5SRQ	0883855070	772503069	Mathematical Cranks (Spectrum)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Breezy and enjoyable	In this book, math professor Underwood Dudley catalogues the characteristics and errors of mathematical cranks.  These are the people, usually mathematical amateurs, who believe they have done the impossible:  squared the circle, calculated a different value of pi (or in some cases, several different values), and so forth.  Math has the advantage over darn near every other human system that one can absolutley prove these people are wrong, but that doesn't stop a true crank.    I am no math whiz, and a lot of this book is over my head.  But I am a crank enthusiast (if you are, too, the best World Wide Web cranks can be found at Crank.net, with which I have no affiliation).  What interests me most in this book, other than Dudley's enthusiastic and deft writing, are his catalogues of crank behavior -- for instance, how they can go from enthusiastic amateur to demented conspiracy theorist rather than simply admit nobody's paying attention to them because they're wrong.  The math-oriented parts of the book are interesting case studies, and the crank-oriented parts have general application to all cranks, even of the non-mathematical variety.  This makes for a useful and entertaining book.	2005-04-22
US	53013446	R15LRV85GSWQ26	1559634634	319597820	Alone: The Classic Polar Adventure	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Courageous	The stories of people who went through terrible situations can become hagiography.  The worse torture one went through and survived, the tougher one is, right? <br /> <br />I expected Admiral Richard Byrd's story of his struggle with illness and the elements in a weather outpost in Antarctica, over a hundred miles from the nearest other multicellular organism, to follow this pattern.  Byrd could be forgiven for slapping himself on the back for having lived through such travails, not only because it really would take a remarkable man, but also because he had to carefully tend to his reputation, which was essential to securing funding for his exploratory expeditions.  But Alone, written only four years after the events described and while Byrd's future career was still an issue, is a more remarkable document than I expected. <br /> <br />Besides describing the remarkable routine of his outpost and how one could live there, where temperatures routinely dipped under negative forty degrees Fahrenheit, and besides describing the agony Byrd suffered from an insidious carbon monoxide leak in the very stove that he depended on to stay warm enough to survive, Byrd also writes what puts his reputation at risk.  He describes with a surprising lack of defensiveness his mental breakdown.  Over sixty awful days, Byrd changed from the intrepid explorer who wanted to spend nine months alone in the Antarctic winter just for the experience to an emaciated, pain-wracked man who could not bear to stick to his original resolution to forbid a dangerous rescue attempt. <br /> <br />Like I said, merely telling how he endured pain could only make Byrd look more manly.  Tough guys endure pain.  But by telling the extent to which the pain unmanned him (in his own turn-of-the-century Virginian mind), Byrd gives a memoir that is as remarkable for its honesty as it is for the fascinating environment in which his adventure takes place.  Letting this book be published during his lifetime is perhapsas great an act of courage as that which he showed during the events of this extraordinary and fascinating book.	2005-02-01
US	53013446	REEMIHCRXMA7T	044022599X	45115444	I Know You Really Love Me: A Psychiatrist's Account of Stalking and Obsessive Love	Books	4	11	14	N	Y	Orion Turns Her Ordeal Into Our Education	The author, psychiatrist Doreen Orion, wrote this book to educate others about stalking, especially of the erotomanic variety.  Erotomania is best known to most of us through mass media, which reports on those creepy individuals who go around convinced that celebrities are in love with them, married to them, etc.  But this kind of stalking also happens to regular folks -- like Orion, whose chance encounter with a psychiatric patient turned into a years-long ordeal, with the patient following her, sneaking into her house, phoning, leaving letters, and even traveling from state to state to maintain unwanted contact with Orion. <br /> <br />Orion recounts her ordeal and intersperses it with information she learned when she applied her psychiatric and research skills to her own predicament.  The result is what she intends.  Her own experiences cause us to empathize with her, and putting ourselves in her shoes, we can see that being stalked (even by a person unlikely ever to attack one physically) is a harrowing, psychologically draining, altogether awful ordeal.  Over and over, Orion ran into people who, never having experienced it, consider such devotion from another no more than a nuisance.  Orion proves differently.  And her description of the psychological condition of erotomania and the development of laws to counter it are interesting, and deep enough to teach something new even to those with long experience in the medical or criminal justice fields. <br /> <br />On the other hand, Orion's conclusions about what to do with the problem of erotomania seem to directly contradict what she says in her book.  After noting again and again that punishment does not stop erotomanic stalkers, she says that maybe if they are punished more, they will stop.  Longer imprisonment is probably a good idea, if only because while stalkers are in prison may be the only time their victims get any rest, but Orion's justified anger may be affecting her clinical judgment when she says extra punishment will do anything else. <br /> <br />And this is clearly Orion's first book, and possibly her editor's too.  She misspells \\"aid\\" as \\"aide\\" and \\"loath\\" as \\"loathe,\\" errors a spell-checker can't catch but she or her editor should have, and her writing starts out bland and clumsy.  What is remarkable about this is how quickly her writing improves over the course of the book.  In the beginning, I was wondering whether I could endure her style long enough to finish, but by the end she had found her voice and I was turning pages frantically. <br /> <br />Even before Orion's writing gels, though, the information she imparts makes her book a worthwhile read.  There is more to the \\"celebrity stalker\\" type than meets the eye, and there are more of them than we know.  Those who work in medicine or the law, especially, need to learn what Orion is teaching.	2004-12-16
US	53013446	R2VAJDC85QWTX0	0788195301	316316135	The Banshee: The Irish Death Messenger	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Scholarly	This is Patricia Lysaght's doctoral dissertation, made over very slightly and published for a general audience.  Therefore, it is not about entertainment.  The reason to get this book is that you are interested in finding out more about the figure of Irish folklore known as the banshee.  There are references to, and frequent quotes from, written and recorded stories concerning banshees, and these are interesting and amusing, but they are not the heart of the book.    Lysaght analyzes each story, breaks down its elements, and shows the geographic and temporal distribution of those elements throughout Ireland.  Then she tries to draw conclusions from these distributions.  This analysis yields such data as that there are, for no apparent reason, no known banshee sightings in Counties Cork or Waterford, but many stories of them being heard; while just north of Waterford banshees are often seen as attractive women; further north and west, they tend to be reported as gnomish crones.    If this is the sort of thing that interests you, this is the book for you.  It is heavily annotated, indexed, and sourced; it has extensive appendices and a large bibliography (as befits a scholarly work, these sections form the bulk of the book).  Lysaght also spends some time theorizing about the origins of the banshee legend (not easy, as she has only a few ancient sources to work with -- a difficulty she does not acknowledge, and she seems perhaps too certain of her conclusions) and spends the final chapter considering the eventual fate of the banshee in these days when folklore is being replaced by urban legends.    The Banshee is not the sort of thing you should read for enteratinment, or the kind of thing you will read your kids before they go to bed; it's not about banshee stories.  It's the story behind the story, and it is exhaustive enough to satisfy anyone's curiosity in that regard.	2004-11-05
US	53013446	R3VHFKXWDHIBD2	0553802763	803195848	A Gentleman's Game: A Queen & Country Novel	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Effective Action/Espionage Thriller	Greg Rucka is spinning a series of novels off his Oni Press comic-book series about adventure, personal lives, and office politics in the British secret service.  His first effort, A Gentleman's Game, promises well for the venture, and it is interesting to see how the characters translate from the graphic format to the prose novel. <br /> <br />Rucka's great strength is in creating flawed yet highly compelling characters.  His protagonist, the intense and deadly Tara Chace, made a terrific spy in the comics and easily carries the lesser burden she shoulders in the novel, where one of the villains -- a British citizen turned terrorist, equally compelling -- gets nearly equal time.  The novel also follows Tara's bitter, hostile, chain-smoking, gold-hearted boss, the great Paul Crocker, as he does his best to navigate the treacherous shoals of intelligence office politics to clear the way for his agents.  New characters, like an amusing pair of Israeli spymasters, and old favorites from the comics like Tom Wallace and the stolid Poole, are equally interesting and welcome. <br /> <br />Rucka has a deep knowledge of his subject, and while his descriptions of weapons can become tiresome (he's the kind of guy who knows, and thinks we have to know, how many foot-pounds of pressure people put on triggers and the brand name every gun anyone has), his acronym-laden spy jargon is convincing and adds flavor to the text. <br /> <br />Rucka may always be a better comic book writer than novelist because he seems weakest when he describes places, people, and action -- things an artist can easily cover him on.  But even at his weakest, he is perfectly adequate, and much of this book finds him at his best.  There may have been one fight too many towards the end (another possible holdover from a comic-book sensibility), but any weaknesses in this book are minor compared to its strengths.  Chace and Crocker are terrific characters, the setting and plot are convincing, and the story is gripping.  I picked up A Gentleman's Game right after work and I didn't even put it down to cook and eat.  It's intelligent entertainment; I can't wait for the next one.	2004-09-28
US	53013446	R1HYRTMLZAD2D	0316156329	597735210	Chasing the Devil: My Twenty-Year Quest to Capture the Green River Killer	Books	2	29	42	N	N	One Perspective on a Big Story	David Reichert was the first homicide detective assigned to the Green River murders, and he was in charge of the sheriff's office nineteen years later when the culprit, Gary Ridgway, was finally arrested.  He has the advantage of an insider's view of the case that defined his career.  He exploits this advantage, giving the reader new tidbits of information about the killings and the investigation.  He also gives a feel for what it was like to be in the pressure-cooker of media and political scrutiny during an expensive manhunt that was fruitless for so many years.<br /><br />As all the Green River Task Force's hard work finally began to pay off with the advent of new DNA technology, Reichert manages to build some suspense and emotion.  I felt the swell of pride he was obviously going for as the Task Force's efforts were vindicated.  However, most of the book suffers from Reichert's dull writing style.  At least he does not overreach; he keeps his syntax clear and tells the story simply.<br /><br />It's Reichert's story, though, and not the story of the Green River killer or even the investigation.  Reichert does little journalism: the things he did not do or witness, we get little information about.  This means that we get only a single angle on the investigation (albeit a good angle).<br /><br />Readers will also find out very little about the killer himself.  Aside from noting that Ridgway is basically prosaic, insignificant, and sick (a lesson that needs to be taught again and again to a nation that appears to believe serial killers have super-powers), Reichert gives us very little information about the man.  There is a single chapter detailing his brief months in the sheriff's custody, and a couple of pages devoted to Ridgway's own untrustworthy account of his early life, and that's pretty much it.  Again, this seems to be because Reichert is not interested in researching anything outside his own perspective.  Also, Reichert is up front about not wanting to do anything to aggrandize the contemptible Ridgway.  Thus, incongruously, Ridgway is a marginal character in the book.<br /><br />I knocked Chasing the Devil off in a few hours, and that is about as much time as it is worth.  Reichert's perspective on the Green River case is valuable, but it does not approach definitiveness, nor is it well enough written to be read solely for its entertainment value.  I recommend this book only to the completist or the interested fast reader.o do anything to aggrandize the contemptible Ridgway.  Thus, incongruously, Ridgway is a marginal character in the book. <br /> <br />I knocked Chasing the Devil off in a few hours, and that is about as much time as it is worth.  Reichert's perspective on the Green River case is valuable, but it does not approach definitiveness, nor is it well enough written to be read solely for its entertainment value.  I recommend this book only to the completist or the interested fast reader.	2004-09-09
US	53013446	R3CP4I0X6NJTRI	0553295276	312335182	Beauty (Spectra Special Editions)	Books	3	35	40	N	N	A Sometimes Ugly Ode to Beauty	In this novel by renowned author Sheri S. Tepper, one woman -- a young fifteenth century noble, Beauty by name -- finds that she is a pivotal character in a number of familiar fairy stories as she haplessly travels through the past and future, and lands real and imagined, on her way to a bizarre destiny. <br /> <br />Tepper is at her most engaging when she slyly retells the classic fairy tales, adding a cynical, sometimes earthy slant that can engage the reader's more adult sensibilities even as the familiar patterns of the old stories awaken childlike nostalgia.  These sections are easily the most amusing of the book.  She also fully imagines a fascinating version of Fairyland.  Additionally, Tepper pulls off a remarkable feat in her writing.  The book is organized as Beauty's diary, commencing when she is fifteen and continuing well beyond middle age, and Tepper convincingly changes Beauty's voice over the years, so gradually I barely noticed it was happening, as Beauty matures and as the events of her life change her outlook. <br /> <br />What keeps this book from greatness is that its central thesis -- that the beauty of art and nature should be preserved and appreciated -- is undercut by the way Tepper describes beauty itself.  Too often, Tepper's words of appreciation of beauty segue into extremely mean-spirited rants against what Tepper perceives to be ugly.  She devotes many pages of her book to describing a well-realized and vicious hell for writers of horror fiction, which she clearly hates with an ugliness that rivals any of the uglinesses she denigrates.  Tepper is hardest on horror fiction, but does not spare other twentieth century institutions.  If you think there is any beauty in modern music or architecture, or that there is any point to art other than beauty, Tepper has some pretty mean things to say about you. <br /> <br />Tepper's bitterness overpowers quite a bit of her book, but Beauty is a long book, and there is room for a lot of good in it.The plot is fascinatingly intricate in the way it weaves Tepper's thesis in with fairy- and folktales, and Tepper's writing technique kept me reading steadily to the finish.  The fact that Tepper sometimes loses control keeps Beauty from being a true classic (or truly beautiful), but it is still a worthwhile read.	2004-08-26
US	53013446	R73XV0FA5I122	0345395379	558638196	Slow River	Books	3	29	31	N	N	Uneven but Entertaining	The action in this science fiction novel alternates between three different phases in the life of the protagonist, Lore van de Oest. One phase, told in the third person and present tense, consists of biographical sketches of Lore's privileged upbringing until a kidnapping gone wrong propels her, naked and injured, into a new life on the streets. The second, told in the third person and past tense, tells how she survives for three years on the mean streets with the help of an amoral hustler called Spanner, whom she joins in a life of crime. The third, in which Lore speaks in the first person, is about how Lore, now separated from Spanner, tries to go straight and build a life for herself as a shift worker in a high-tech water purification plant.        Author Nicola Griffith leavens each section with vivid futuristic detail, and she is an evocative writer with a sharp eye for character. As a writer, her choice to switch between first and third person, past and present tense -- her biggest gamble -- is also her greatest failure, as the transition can sometimes be jarring. Other than that, her prose flows as smoothly and deeply as the river of the title.        Two of the three parts of Slow River -- the ones about street life and privileged life in the near future -- are above average examples of basic science fiction themes, most worth reading for Griffith's prose. The third, about Lore's employment at the extremely well-imagined purification facility, is more original. The atmosphere of low-grade tension inherent in the possibility that some malfunction there will cause an ecological catastrophe gives an element of suspense to Griffith's novel that keeps the reader turning pages.        Or, at least, it did me. It says something, about either Griffith or me, that I read as fast as I could through chapters about surefire topics like high-tech crime and futuristic luxury because I was desperate to find out what happens to the poorly-paid denizens of a water treatmentplant. It takes talent to make this sort of topic so absorbing, but Griffith has no shortage of that -- and her peers agree, and awarded Slow River various awards, including the prestigious Nebula.	2004-07-30
US	53013446	R29DD3PS4HS0GO	1896597718	29779272	The Golem's Mighty Swing	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Home Run	The Golem's Mighty Swing works both as a tale of Prohibition-era barnstorming baseball and as a tale of ethnic relations.  James Sturm sharply observes the baseball details, including a number of interesting and authentic-sounding anecdotes about the game.  And by telling the story through the eyes of a man who is accustomed to the prejudiced attitudes of the day, Sturm gives us not a rabble-rousing screed with the obvious moral that anti-Semitism is bad, but a highly evocative portrait of life as an ethnic outsider that gives us some feeling for what it's actually like. <br /> <br />Sturm's art is clean and says a lot with a little, as other reviewers have said.  But Sturm's talent for saying a lot with a little is true of his prose as well.  For a hundred-page comic, this book has a remarkable number of memorable and realistic characters.  Also, the book design itself, from the color of the pages to the art inside the front covers, gives a retro feel that enhances the mood of the story. <br /> <br />Sturm obviously sweated the details to create something as simple in outline yet as emotionally and thematically complex as The Golem's Mighty Swing.  His effort pays off.  The Golem's Mighty Swing effortlessly sweeps the reader up in the story, the characters, and the setting, making for a quick read at first, and then a thoughtful mood after the reading is done.	2004-07-25
US	53013446	R3AU6G9QFVUWGZ	0060097329	508458301	The Carpet Wars: From Kabul to Baghdad: A Ten-Year Journey Along Ancient Trade Routes	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Painless Education	The Carpet Wars is a sampler of informal writing from Australian journalist (and avid carpet collector) Christopher Kremmer over ten years in Central Asia.  Since most of it was written, and concerns events, before 9/11, when the area was not established in the West's cultural radar as it is today, it gives a view of the region that is uncluttered by hindsight reevaluations.<br />Kremmer writes of his time in Afghanistan, Pakistan, Tajikstan, Kashmir, and Iran, giving us colorful and non-journalistic slices of life from each region.  He enlivens his writings with vivid character studies of those he met on his travels, from dignitaries like ill-fated Afghan dictator Mohammed Najibullah and legendary guerilla Ahmad Shah Massoud to various carpet dealers Kremmer got to know over his time in the region.  Between these character sketches and Kremmer's anecdotes, he delivers measured doses of regional history and politics, and he imparts a surprising amount of information about his favorite hobby, the Asian carpet.<br />The result is more than just some very entertaining travel writing.  Kremmer's lively and discursive work also functions as an excellent introduction to the Central Asian economy and politics.  Besides being for those who just like to read about travel in interesting foreign parts, The Carpet Wars will also be useful for non-scholars who want to have some idea how movements like the Taliban came to be, but want to take a spoonful of sugar with this medicine.<br />(Kremmer's book also taught me that I'll never know enough to bargain effectively for an Asian carpet -- but his rueful and wry work also admits that there is a certain pleasure in being cheated.)	2004-07-08
US	53013446	R3JELRWWKC31P7	0380977427	727370009	Quicksilver (The Baroque Cycle, Vol. 1)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Stephenson does it again	Some people complain that Quicksilver is nearly plotless and overly digressive, containing page after page of Neal Stephenson bloviating about whatever happens to catch his fancy.  But for others, like me, this is the charm of his book.  Stephenson is a prose stylist of epic talent whose excitement about whatever subject he happens to be writing on is infectious and engaging.<br />Here, Stephenson has a number of ideas about modern ways to interpret the beginning of the Scientific Revolution.  He frames them around the stories of a member of the Royal Society, a vagabond, and an economically savvy former harem slave.  But, likeable and vivid as these characters are, they're present more as our tour guides than as characters in a traditional novel.  They are Stephenson's excuses to write, and write he does, on and on and on, in a pleasingly informal and anachronistic voice, about whatever phenomenon of the late 1600's strikes him.  Events and characters come and go as required when Stephenson's interest shifts.<br />If you like the way Stephenson writes, then there's no such thing as too much of it, and editing to make the story tighter defeats the real purpose of reading his work.  This is the way I feel.  If you're looking first and foremost for story, buy the Reader's Digest condensed version -- but you'll be missing out on the best parts.  This book is not about the destination, it's about the ride.	2004-04-28
US	53013446	R1EPVQ3AEGPNWW	0679764895	756467539	Mr. Wilson's Cabinet of Wonder: Pronged Ants, Horned Humans, Mice on Toast, and Other Marvels of Jurassic Technology	Books	3	25	44	N	N	Fascinating subject, wrong author	I learned of the Museum of Jurassic Technology through this very short book, which begins with journalist Lawrence Weschler's description of the exhibits and then goes briefly into the history of museums and the history of this particular museum and its proprietor.  But I already feel I know more about it than Weschler.<br />Among other things, the museum is a straight-faced, Andy Kaufman-esque joke, blending exhibits that look too nutty to be true, but are true, with outright hoaxes.  Weschler, who apparently came into the Museum of Jurassic Technology with little of the sort of education or interests that would have prepared him for such a place, continually mistakes the veracity of the exhibits one way or the other until he researches each and every one, and in his writing he expects everyone to have had the very same reaction to the exhibits that he did.<br />In other words, he didn't get the joke, and he writes as though he expects us not to.  For those, like me, who already knew enough to get it in the first place, reading Weschler's book is like hearing someone explain a joke -- it struck me in many places as laborious and unfunny.  <br />Fortunately, the museum itself and Weschler's other material is fascinating stuff on any terms.  Weschler does not do justice to the material, but the material is so strong it carries the book anyway.  If the idea of visiting a museum that claims to have an X-ray bat that flew so fast it embedded itself in a lead block does not interest you, this is not your book.  But if this sort of quasi-Fortean esoterica sounds like your cup of tea, you will enjoy reading about the Museum of Jurassic Technology, if only to know that a place like that exists and to daydream about visiting it someday.	2003-12-23
US	53013446	RHWP9VPF9PVEK	0380798360	535649961	Declare	Books	4	5	6	N	N	The Best of Powers's Worst Work	Tim Powers has a tendency to lash many of his fantasies so securely to known historical facts that the plot and the fantastical elements get lost in a welter of truthful, but exhausting, detail.  The classic example of this is The Stress of Her Regard, in which a kind of vampire story is drowned in more than anyone needs to know about the Romance poets.  On the other hand, when Powers is willing to freestyle a little more, he is capable of great flights of imagination such as those that powered his modern fantasy Last Call and his immemorial classic The Anubis Gates.<br />Declare is one of Powers's history-bound fantasies, in which Powers challenges himself to create a fantasy in a known historical subject without contradicting any of the historically estalbished facts.  However, he avoids many of the pitfalls into which he has stumbled in his prior forays down this road.  Rather than wearing his readers down with true biographical details the only real significance of which is how cleverly Powers works them into his own story, he seems to select details for their objective value as points of interest for the reader.  Here, we are immersed in details drawn from the world of international espionage from World War II to the middle of the Cold War.  Instead of seeing how Powers can work the fact that two historical figures stayed at hotels ten miles away from each other on a certain day into a story, we get to see his protagonist using interesting espionage techniques -- telegraphing information to headquarters from radios hidden in occupied Paris, forming groups of Bedouin nomads for spying missions.  This keeps the story moving.<br />And Powers does a better job integrating the fantastical elements of the story, too.  The supernatural creatures who, it turns out, had a lot to do with the Cold War turning out the way it did, are fascinating -- awesomely powerful, terrifyingly alien, and fully imagined.  Powers manages to work them into history without making them seemsmall.  The supernatural occurrences in On Stranger Tides or Stress of Her Regard seemed reduced in scale as compared to the supernatural beings in regular fantasy novels -- like Powers was fitting them into tiny chinks between established historical facts.  But Declare's djinn have a frightening majesty that makes it seem as though history has accommodated itself to them rather than vice versa.  Their appearances in Declare are always spectacular.<br />This may well be the perfect Powers &quot;history to fantasy&quot; novel -- eventful, suspenseful, well written (of course), satisfying -- but it still smacks of trickery.  This is Powers pulling off the amazing feat of writing a successful fantasy while adhering strictly to minute historical details.  This is Powers handicapping himself, and still winning the race.  But I still think Powers does better when he does not start himself out at a disadvantage.  As much as Declare impressed me, I like Powers better when he gives himself freer rein.	2003-12-16
US	53013446	RUU8632UVT89I	1840462493	618709685	Dawkins Vs. Gould: Survival of the Fittest (Revolutions in Science)	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Useful to a narrow audience	One of the wonders of the Internet was supposed to be the way it could get niche ideas and products into the hands of the very few who might be interested in them, and I am happy to report that it seems to be working.  There cannot be a great mass of people who are (a) both aware of and highly interested in the conflict between evolutionary biology popularizers Richard Dawkins and Stephen Jay Gould, but (b) lacking in sufficient time and education to satisfy their curiosity from primary materials.  But for those few who are, as I was, interested in a layperson's outline of the points of conflict between the Dawkins and Gould camps, Kim Sterelny has written one.<br />Sterelny, a philosophy professor, is strict about giving credit to each camp where credit is due, and about identifying his own biases.  He bends over backwards to be fair, and he succeeds.<br />Sterelny writes at such a level that if your only education in evolutionary biology comes from popular works like Dawkins's and Gould's, his overview is entirely comprehensible.  Though this was good for me, it means that he is probably writing far below the level of most people interested in the convroversies he describes.<br />I suppose it is odd for someone who actually is in the market for a book just like the one Sterelny wrote to wonder who would actually buy such a book, but that is the position I find myself in.  One really should be at least somewhat familiar with the Dawkins/Gould divide before reading this book, but if you are too familiar with it, that means you have education enough that this book is pitched too low for you.  Those on the razor's edge will get the most out of it.  And the delight of the Internet is that there is a good chance enough of that rare breed of people can find this book that it was worth writing, and that those of you in the narrow audience that will find it worth reading -- as I did -- are able to find it.	2003-11-21
US	53013446	R38S8RCYU7OKNZ	0380979020	547078013	Paladin of Souls: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Welcome Back to Chalion	This pleasant sequel to The Curse of Chalion contains all the hallmarks of the Lois McMaster Bujold style -- an underdog protagonist with unexpected strength, extremely engaging characters, three-dimensional villains, witty and epigram-laced writing so good you want to read it aloud to somebody, and clearly written action concerning a situation that starts out fairly complicated and gets a lot worse, and more complex, before it gets any better.  As usual, Bujold is compulsively readable.  I think if she wrote VCR owner's manuals, I'd stay up past midnight turning their pages.<br />However, this is a lesser work than her previous novel in the same setting.  I think this is the nature of the setting she picked.  Readers of the past book have gotten the message, which was well-hidden until the end, that if you trust Chalion's gods and do what you know you ought to do, the gods will make sure things turn out okay in the end.  Curse of Chalion contained mixed blessings that made the gods seem mysterious and mercurial, but here, the gods speak to the protagonist face to face and whenever she gets into too much trouble, they give her another superpower that can get her out.  Also, readers of the previous book, knowing you get into more trouble ignoring the gods than taking their (admittedly oblique) advice, may be as miffed as I was at the protagonist for her perverse insistence on doing things the hard way no matter how many others suffer.<br />Okay, I got that out of my system.  Now, don't let it stop you from reading the book.  This isn't the VCR manual I said I'd read if Bujold wrote it.  It's a fine novel, one of the best you're likely to read this year, and a welcome return to a vivid and fascinating world.  Just because it's not flawless (as Curse of Chalion is, or very nearly) doesn't make it not a gem.	2003-11-18
US	53013446	R3MHHW595UC448	1587159627	51743595	Lud-In-The-Mist	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Gains momentum	Lud-In-The-Mist starts out slow and builds to a fever pitch.  Like a lot of books written before the Sixties, it expects you to invest some time and thought into it before it pays off, but if you give it a hundred pages to build, the rest of the book goes fast and furious.  Give it that amount of time, and a little thought, and Lud-In-The-Mist will repay your investment with dividends.  The older you are, the more you will enjoy it, since the hero is a middle-aged patrician whose life becomes an adventure long after he gives up on adventure as a part of his life.<br />Leaving aside topical issues, Lud-In-The-Mist is as intelligent, well written and detailed as contemporary classics like the works of Dunsany and lesser Tolkien. It well deserves to remain in print.  Seek it out and enjoy; you won't regret it.	2003-09-01
US	53013446	R28I9TKDQLLYDK	0380977788	425362981	Coraline	Books	4	3	3	N	N	For kids who will grow up into adults	Yes, this book is spookier than most kids' books these days.  That is a good thing.  Kids have always liked Brothers Grimm style works, and the trend of the last couple decades of sugar-coating fairy tales have only appeared to increase the violence of teenage horror stories (witness the Friday the Thirteenth flicks, for example).  As a story about a smart young girl who battles a fully imagined and quite frightening storybook villain, Coraline is top notch; and, as far as I am concerned, such stories should be far more common than they are.<br />For a funnier, yet comparable, take on the same subject as Coraline, try The Wee Free Men by Terry Pratchett, a former collaborator of the author's.  Coraline and The Wee Free Men are two different takes on the subject of one young girl fighting a particular kind of reality-altering villain.  Both books are excellent.	2003-09-01
US	53013446	R1KB1CI95UOWDV	0374528519	625503681	Hogarth: A Life and a World	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Monumental	William Hogarth, though one of the finest artists of his time, was still very much a man of his time.  His thoughts, his art, and his life do not transcend history -- to understand him and his work, it is necessary to put them in the context of the day.  So Jenny Uglow paints a thorough and vivid picture of the London of the early to mid 1700's, from politics to pop culture, and shows us Hogarth's place in it.  That is the reason this book is so huge -- it really is a snapshot of Hogarth's world, just as the subtitle suggests.<br />Another reason for the focus on Hogarth the artist and the man of his time is that there is relatively little information on Hogarth's personal life.  But from what Uglow can show us, Hogarth was a pugnacious, vulgar, vain little homunculus, so too much study of his personality might have detracted from an appreciation of his accomplishments and ideals, both of which were sterling.  It is probably for the best that we see Hogarth through the lens of his work and his time, as this is where his greatness lies.<br />And this book's greatness lies in its portrait of London in the eighteenth century, which is detailed, gossipy, and endlessly fascinating, running the gamut of events from lofty political doings at court to pop-culture crazes like Mary Tofts, the hoaxer who claimed to have given birth to rabbits.  In her biography of London's most popular artist of his time, Jenny Uglow brings the entire city to brilliant life.	2003-08-11
US	53013446	R18D4BJYV83VWH	1585790206	751410577	The Search for Michael Rockefeller	Books	3	19	19	N	N	Absorbing travelogue, problematic journalism	This book, written in the early seventies, details Argosy Magazine journalist Milt Machlin's investigation into the disappearance of the young Rockefeller family scion who vanished on an expedition to tribal New Guinea after his catamaran capsized and he tried to swim to shore. Machlin's involvement with the story began years after the event, when a seedy character came to his magazine's office with a wild tale about Rockefeller being kept captive as a living tribal fetish by a band of natives. The first part of the book is an account of Machlin's trip to New Guinea to investigate this lead. The second part is Machlin's attempt to reconstruct Rockefeller's fate, which Machlin believes differs from the official conclusion that he drowned before reaching shore.<br />I enjoyed Machlin's personal account of his journey much more than I believed his theories about Rockefeller's fate. Machlin is a gifted writer, and his account of his adventures in wild New Guinea is written with great verve and a gift for telling the most interesting details and anecdotes in the most interesting way. During his trip to the island on which Rockefeller had been reported to be alive, he joined a crocodile hunt, visited Guinean tribal villages, and learned much of a tribal culture that is both fascinatingly, and in many ways terrifyingly, alien. He mixes tales of his own adventures with anecdotes about the bush, like stories of giant crocodiles and octopuses, and tales of tribal feuds and cargo cultism. His clear, zesty writing and fascinating subject matter make his tale an enjoyable, engrossing read.<br />Then Machlin gets into his theory about Rockefeller's fate. The first part of the book establishes his bona fides -- knowledge of New Guinea and journalism. But when he tries to penetrate the mystery of what happened to Rockefeller after he left sight of his overturned catamaran, Machlin's journalism deserts him. He bases his conclusion on rumors -- stories that were second-hand or worseeven before they came to him. Machlin has me convinced that the official story that Rockefeller drowned is unsupported by the evidence -- but from what I can tell, there is so little evidence that no conclusion is supported. We simply don't know what happened. But when it comes to historical mysteries, it takes a strong will to write a whole book on it and then admit the answer is \\"we can't know the answer; there's not enough evidence.\\" Machlin's speculations are plausible, but just as unsupported as the explanation he derides.<br />So don't read The Search for Michael Rockefeller to get the last word on Rockefeller's disappearance. But that doesn't mean you shouldn't read it. If you read it for tall tales and travel stories about a wild and alien part of the world, you won't be disappointed.	2003-06-04
US	53013446	RFB5UCBKS49DC	0812540220	530640870	The Free Lunch	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Gotta love Spider, even when he's not working hard	Spider Robinson's hippie optimism is a refreshing change from the grim, nihilistic science fiction that clutters the market.  His pleasant characters and witty, succinct writing are likewise a tonic in a market filled with tormented, tight-jawed protagonists and bloated, thousand-page &quot;first of a trilogy&quot; books.  True, he has an annoying tendency to believe that right-thinking people agree with each other on each and every little thing, and too many of his books end with everybody joining together in a groovy telepathic love-in.  Still, his fast-paced, well written, fervently humanistic work has a place on the shelves of any serious science fiction reader, and, for most of his readers, in their hearts as well.<br />The Free Lunch is lesser Robinson, but it still contains all the reasons his readers enjoy his work -- protagonists who, while unrealistically competent, are basically nice folks who it would be fun to hang out with; a fundamental optimism about the human spirit; and Spider's wise, witty, and absorbing writing style.  Also, as usual, he peppers his book with excellent reading suggestions.  Robinson newcomers will find this a minor, but enjoyable, change of pace; they might be better advised to begin with his classic short story collection &quot;Callahan's Crosstime Saloon&quot; or his still alarmingly topical novel &quot;Night of Power.&quot;	2003-05-20
US	53013446	R2O85PJUUMNLMO	0465084087	688603396	The Tenth Circle Of Hell: A Memoir Of Life In The Death Camps Of Bosnia (A New Republic Book)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Yes, this kind of thing still happens	Journalist Rezak Hukanovic's very short book about his experiences in the captivity of the Serbs is a harrowing reminder of how cruel people can be, even in this day and age when educated people tend to think such inhumanity is behind us.  How, in the shadow of the Holocaust, can people convince themselves it's okay to act this way?  Hukanovic does not know and does not pretend to know -- he simply reports the facts of his captivity and the monstrous depravities he witnessed and suffered.<br />The book stumbles into near-banality whenever Hukanovic does anything other than straightforward reporting of the facts.  Perhaps this is due to difficulty of translation; perhaps it is just because any philosophical musing or attempts at poetry seem ludicrously flimsy in the face of the events reported.  But almost all of the book is simple reporting of true occurrences.  Technique is beside the point when the events themselves have the power of a waking nightmare.<br />There are still people who believe things like what happened to Hukanovic are impossible -- that no one could behave so reprehensibly towards other humans. Those people should read this book.  Perhaps the knowledge that this sort of thing was happening in 1992 will awaken them and they will join the ranks of those, like the International Red Cross monitors Hukanovic lauds for mitigating his own plight, who try to ameliorate such horrors rather than ignore them.	2003-03-13
US	53013446	R1SDVPE47TY7XT	0520232143	415451193	Life Along the Silk Road	Books	3	73	78	N	N	Vivid	For historical dilettantes like me, it's easier to understand a time and place not through a recitation of the places and dates of battles and monarchial successions, but through the lives of people who lived then and there.  Traditional histories say who won the battles, but not what life was like between those battles.  Here, a qualified academic tries to accomodate people like me, showing Central and Eastern Asisa's history during the heyday of the Silk Road through a series of brief vingettes profiling the lives of various types of people who lived then.  The professor's writing is stiff, but her intentions are honorable and her technique is effective.  Her depiction of the Silk Road through its denizens drew me in with everyday detail from the period, which placed the greater historical details, like Chinese dynastic changes and which nations gained ascendancy at what time, into a context I could understand.  I imagine others, including university students, might benefit from the author's methods.	2003-03-09
US	53013446	ROH492UQ8D4BE	0520202651	705148119	A Man Without Words	Books	5	39	43	N	Y	Made me question long-accepted beliefs	Like a lot of university educated folks, I heard in Psych 101 that once you hit your teens, your capacity to learn languages takes such a nosedive that if you haven't learned by then, you'll never be better than \\"Me Tarzan, you Jane\\" no matter how hard you try.  I'm not ashamed of accepting this \\"language expiration date\\" -- there was no reason not to, and besides, it tracked with my own frustration learning foreign languages.  For decades, I accepted this Psych 101 nugget without question. <br />When I started reading A Man Without Words, I had no idea my old Psych 101 nugget's days were numbered.  I heard about the book as something a fan of Oliver Sacks would enjoy, and I associated it with Oliver Sack's book The Man Who Mistook His Wife for a Hat, about neurological dysfunction, not Sacks's Hearing Voices, about the deaf.  I assumed until I started reading that the \\"man without words\\" was aphasic -- had brain damage that prevented him from understanding language.  Turns out, though, the book's namesake is deaf and poor and had simply, at 27, never been taught any language.  No one had ever bothered.  Susan Schaller then proceeded to overturn the Psych 101 sacred cow I never knew I had by describing how she taught this young man the beginnings of ASL over the course of a few weeks.  Then, so I couldn't think of him as a freak or fraud, Schaller goes on to show that many deaf people receive no language training and can also be taught to sign long after the Psych 101 \\"language expiration date.\\"<br />Schaller claims that almost every deaf teacher, and most hearing teachers, of ASL know of adults who have grown up without language.  While her book is anecdotal and therefore fundamentally unscientific, she makes a passionate plea for academic study of the acquisition of language by adults, which makes her more plausible than those who would brush science aside where it does not prove their case.  A Man Without Words is a powerful request, and a strong basis, for further research in this area.<br />A Man Without Words is also very well written.  Schaller is both artful and precise in her descriptions of sign idioms and grammar, to the point that I, who know little of sign other than what I read here and in Hearing Voices, felt I understood what I needed to and enjoyed learning it.  Her narrative case study is better written than many novels, and besides being fascinated by the information Schaller imparts, I also became submerged in the story.<br />Learning that something I believed for decades may be dead wrong gives me a feeling of loss of equilibrium (I got the feeling a lot when I first started reading about urban legends).  No matter how skeptical I try to be, I always seem to be assuming something.  A Man Without Words is a convincing argument for skepticism about the \\"language expiration date,\\" and it raises concerns that the \\"expiration date\\" idea may make us give up up too quickly on languageless adults.  It is also a fascinating read as a story, which makes the loss of equilibrium easier to take.  Now I just hope that since this book was published in the nineties, someone in academia has taken the hint and done some study on linguistic development in adults.  I'm off to cruise the Web to find out -- which, I'm sure, is just the kind of reaction Schaller was hoping for.	2003-01-28
US	53013446	R10N8FDOVJFBI3	0747553858	666176355	Aberwystwyth Mon Amour	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Inspired lunacy	In Aberystwyth Mon Amour, Malcolm Pryce employs the cliches of Welsh culture to create a hard-boiled detective comedy. In Pryce's alternate version of Welsh vacation spot Aberystwyth, the tea-cozy shops are houses of ill repute, you forget your worries by downing a shot of ice cream, and if you're depressed, you go to the 24 hour whelk stand to brood over your mussels.<br />Throughout the disorganized, Chandleresque story, Pryce throws in bizarre Welsh detail after bizarre Welsh detail, even inventing a Welsh version of Viet Nam -- its fictional war with Patagonia. I'm not from the UK, and I'm sure I did not get many more than half of the references Pryce puts in, but even so it is a rich stew of strangeness.<br />The thing I did not expect was how engrossed I would be by the detective story. I thought the plot was going to be just a clothesline on which Prcye would hang his gags. But, by keeping his delivery completely straight-faced even when he is going over the top and by giving us enough human, emotional observation to make me care about the characters, he managed to get me involved in the story almost as much as in the gags. Towards the end, I was turning the pages eagerly, as much to see what would happen next as to enjoy Pryce's weird Wales.	2003-01-03
US	53013446	R1IR0AGQAP267I	0060198524	279153472	Population: 485: Meeting Your Neighbors One Siren at a Time	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Often on target	Population: 485 is starting to take off in volunteer fire and EMS circles.  There are two reasons for this.  First, it's always great to see a book that glorifies what you do.  Second, Perry's experience and way with words allows him to nail many of the details of the work.  His passages on emergencies he has dealt with had me nodding my head in recognition, and even sometimes -- as in his section about EMS's obsession with overcomplicated mnemonic devices -- exclaiming my agreement aloud in empty rooms.  In these parts of the book, Perry comes closer than any writer I can think of to imparting what it feels like to be an EMT or firefighter in the situations he describes.<br />However, not all the book is about that.  To prove his erudition, Perry salts his book with historical information he cannot make interesting compared to his central subject.  These end up looking like he's marking time through this short book because he doesn't have anecdotes enough to fill it.  (One of his asides about Emperor Trajan, however, was trenchant.)  Also, little redundancies from chapter to chapter reveal how this book was stitched together out of separate articles or essays -- either it should have stayed an essay collection, or the editing should have been done more carefully.  And occasionally Perry's &quot;macho poet&quot; stylings can be a bit precious.<br />All in all, though, Perry's book is worth a look.  It is a quick read, and Perry can turn a phrase well.  Most importantly, nothing else I have seen captures the feeling of being a small town volunteer like Population: 485.  Writing from Population: 633, I salute the book.	2002-12-31
US	53013446	R2DUGRVUHZJTIN	0135480574	267728434	The Malted Milk Ball Diet	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Very funny	This is a humor book containing a fictional question and answer session about the eponymous Malted Milk Ball Diet, which, if we are to believe the answers to such questions as &quot;should I exercise on this diet,&quot; &quot;will the diet improve my self-esteem,&quot; and &quot;can the diet help me in reincarnation,&quot; is the answer to all the world's problems.<br />Containing dry, straight-faced humor and enhanced by quirky cartoon illustrations from Jerry van Amerongen, who went on to write newspaper comics The Neighborhood and Ballard Street (van Amerongen is almost certainly responsible for the written content as well; the author's name, Horace Cutbinder, sounds very much like the kind of names he always made up in his cartoons), The Malted Milk Ball Diet is a terrific satire of the extravagant claims people make, for diets and for so many other things, to separate us from our hard-earned cash.  If you have to spend it, spend it on something like this.  The Malted Milk Ball Diet will give you value for your money.	2002-10-27
US	53013446	R3GBE49BNZ8L5V	0767908309	28613101	Comic Wars: How Two Tycoons Battled Over the Marvel Comics Empire--And Both Lost	Books	3	16	16	N	N	Business for Comic Book Fans	Comic Wars is a sprightly, fast-paced book about the bankruptcy and hostile takeover troubles Marvel Comics faced in the mid-1990's, when billionaire financiers Ronald O. Perelman and Carl Icahn engaged in a tug-of-war for control of the company that almost killed it and eventually left it in the control of neither man.  Instead, toy company owner Ike Perlmutter scooped them both.  Comic Wars's main strengths are propulsive narration that makes it a fast and compelling read, and the simplicity with which author Dan Raviv explains the hideous complexities of the bankruptcy process.  This is a book about business that a business dilettante can read and understand.  Its descriptions of the way junk bond financing and overextension got Marvel into trouble and of the various types of deals the bankruptcy parties thought of to get it out of trouble contain useful general business knowledge.  Its combination of simple narration and simple explanations made it an educational experience that I also enjoyed.<br />On the other side of the ledger, Raviv borrows from comic books a habit of making his characters larger than life and designating them good guys or bad guys.  The good guy in Raviv's version of this true story is Isaac &quot;Ike&quot; Perlmutter, and we know we are supposed to identify best with him because, unlike the other major parties, Raviv always refers to Ike by his first name.  Meanwhile, Perelman and Icahn are referred to by their last names, except in chapter titles, which refer to them by the names of Marvel Comics villains Dr. Doom and The Vulture.  The good guy versus bad guy idea makes this a simple book to read, and that makes the business education go down more easily, but it undoubtedly grossly oversimplifies the true situation.  Late in the book we see that good old Ike, who's worth half a billion dollars, won't spring twelve hundred bucks for an office Christmas party to improve Marvel's wounded morale -- he's no super-hero, and I imagine Perelmanand Icahn aren't quite super-villains, either.<br />I still recommend the book.  It's fun to read, and that's something it'd be hard to say about anything else that contains as much useful information on high finance and business bankruptcy.  Given our present economy, it behooves us all to learn a bit about both.	2002-10-26
US	53013446	RC0VEUC3NZ0XM	0812930991	150767402	Blinded by the Right: The Conscience of an Ex-Conservative	Books	2	20	24	N	N	Brock is still not a reporter	David Brock, ex-hatchet man for the far right, turns his hatchet on his erstwhile comrades in Blinded by the Right, a bridge-burning memoir of his time with the movers and shakers of the conservative movement.  In it, he exposes the shaky journalism with which he produced the famous (or infamous) book The Real Anita Hill to legitimize Clarence Thomas's appointment to the Supreme Court and trumped up the Troopergate scandal to vex the Clintons.  However, he commits the same sins in this book that he deplores in his earlier work.  He derides himself for throwing in irrelevant asides, yet cannot name a conservative figure without slamming that figure somehow (noting, for instance, that conservative journalist Robert Novak's enemies call him &quot;No Facts,&quot; without connecting the observation to any point he's trying to make).<br />Brock writes with great passion, and his book is a convincing portrait of a man whose commitment to the conservative cause gradually loses its original focus and becomes a simple feud with the liberal &quot;other team,&quot; and in which his own political views become subsumed into a view that he must stick with his side, right or wrong.  But it is so convincing that, although there is no question in my mind that he believes what he writes, I have to remain skeptical that his conversion from conservatism is not a product of similar transient psychological factors.<br />Brock is so good at disinformation, and so good at admitting it, that even now that he is telling me what I always suspected about the right wing, I cannot bring myself to fully credit it -- particularly when the style he admits to using in past work appears so similar to the style he is using now.  Taking Blinded by the Right with a grain of salt, I found it a quick and engrossing read, but it's not reliable, and I was distracted by the recurring thought that the reason I was enjoying it was because Brock was using the same powers he used to pander to the conservative movement to pander to me.	2002-09-30
US	53013446	R1CA91G5WGCLR3	0953998002	171381067	The Dying Earth RPG	Books	4	27	27	N	Y	Brilliant idea	Robin Laws and Dean Shomshak are the only two game writers who I think are worth reading purely for pleasure even if you don't play the game they write about.  I got this book not because I expect ever to play the game, but because I thought it would be fascinating to find out if Laws, who was able to so perfectly capture the Hong Kong action movie style with his Feng Shui rules, could possibly capture the unique flavor of Jack Vance's brilliant Dying Earth stories.<br />Well, Laws succeeded.  The rules are a marvel of construction, discouraging combat and encouraging the kind of wild schemes and crazy scams that characterize the Dying Earth.  I was impressed by their ingenuity, and, as usual, I enjoyed Laws's wit and his clear, succinct writing style.  The book also enjoys high production values, and seems sturdy enough to survive sustained use as a reference.<br />I can only assume this is a labor of love on Laws's part, since the market for an RPG based on a decades-old, moderately obscure fantasy series (which, though overlooked, is a classic work of genius) would not appear to be very big.  Also, in reproducing Vance's world, in which characters are often foolish and rarely violent, Laws creates rules that sometimes impinge on the right of the player to control his or her own character.  This is necessary to avoid players falling into their regular habits and destroying the atmosphere so important to the Dying Earth stories, but it is so contrary to player expectations that many may never be able to accept it (I myself don't know if I could actually play this game).<br />Given these drawbacks, I do not know if the Dying Earth RPG will succeed financially.  But as an example of how to fit game rules to game setting, and as an homage to Vance's wonderful Dying Earth books, the Dying Earth RPG is a success already.	2002-08-11
US	53013446	R1L8VI25UK3JTJ	1587990717	866674811	Fooled by Randomness: The Hidden Role of Chance in the Markets and in Life	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	A wake-up call	A self-described \\"intellectual snob,\\" Nassim Taleb proves it in his elaborate, sarcastic, high-handed writing style, which is still highly readable.  Taleb reminds me of a mild version of one of Jack Vance's characters from the Dying Earth story cycle, with his amusingly archaic, formal style always concealing a dagger for his enemies.  Half the fun is his outrageousness.<br />The other half of the fun is not as much fun, though.  Taleb's mission is to remind us that although we can find ex post facto explanations for anything, we really are not very good at predicting the future.  This affects his field of financial trading even more than it does the lives of the general public.  He points out that with incomplete information (and information is always incomplete), it is impossible to tell whether a given strategy is successful because it is a good one or because so many thousands of strategies are out there that it stands to reason, even if none of them are any good, that some of them by chance will have succeeded by having a \\"one in thousands\\" stroke of luck.  Thus, past performance, practically worshipped as a future predictor, is not as reliable as we would like to think.  This is as hard a message to internalize as it is important that we should do so.<br />Naturally, as a trader himself who is advertising for his own fund, Taleb claims to have beaten this problem but won't tell us how.  But he does not belabor this, instead impressing over and over in different ways how unsuited the human animal is to dealing with probabilities and urging us to make this part of our calculations.  He gives entertaining and convincing examples of the fallacies he sees every day in business and the bases for them in human behavior.<br />Especially in finance, healthy skepticism is very important, but rarely encouraged.  Taleb's book is a valuable exception to this rule.  It's an easy, fun, informative read, and more people should read it than probably will.	2002-08-11
US	53013446	R1ENU5482ZF7KH	1585670111	840921070	Ataturk	Books	4	22	23	N	N	Interesting treatment of an interesting subject	Turkey is a key player in a very important region, and it is impossible to understand it without understanding the man who left his mark so deeply in it, Mustafa Kemal Ataturk.  This biography helped me get some understanding on this great leader whose career has been unjustly neglected in the West.  It is mostly a political biography, and thankfully it fails to emphasize the kiss-and-tell tabloid details of Ataturk's life.  Author Andrew Mango is no censor and we get a complete view of Ataturk, but Mango keeps the spotlight away from prurient details.<br />The picture Mango gives us of Ataturk is a compelling one, of a man driven to achieve power from an early age, yet, in an age of expansionist ideology, a man uniquely qualified to be the absolute ruler of his country because he knew his limits and those of his nation.  Unlike the fascists and communists, Ataturk concentrated on increasing the quality of life of his people rather than increasing the size of the lands under his dominion.<br />It is clear Mango softpeadals some major issues in Ataturk's life and Turkish history.  For instance, he circumlocutes around the issue of Ataturk's bodyguards murdering a political opponent of his, and there is no mention of the Armenian genocide (which, in any event, took place during the Young Turk revolution, when Ataturk held insufficient political power to be considered at all responsible).<br />But this is not to say he gives Ataturk a free pass -- we do get a picture of a human being from this book, not a whitewashed icon.  Still, if Ataturk was arrogant, greedy for power, and created the form of democracy while never actually allowing contrary opinions to prevail, there is no question that his rule was spectacularly good for Turkey: probably better than democracy or any other dictator could have been.  Even allowing for the puffery and legend that has grown up around this admired historical figure -- and Mango is expert in cutting through the laudatory nonsense that has accreted around the Ataturk legend (often with Atatiurk's own connivance) -- history presents Ataturk as a man who was right darn near as often as he thought he was.<br />The ways he was right, and the ways he stamped his correct ideas on Turkey, have had an enormous effect on Turkey -- and, through Turkey's cultural influence, have influenced its entire region.  Understanding Kemal and Kemalism, and understanding Ataturk's genius for creating an effective government out of the fragments of a dying Islamic empire, sheds new light on regional politics in a sensitive area of the globe.  While we are unlikely to see a leader as great as Ataturk there again, in his ideas and legacy we can find reason for hope.	2002-06-24
US	53013446	RKAAH26TSFZXX	0743435338	531654219	Diplomatic Immunity	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A return to form	If, like me, you did not enjoy the last two Miles Vorkosigan books as much as the preceding ones, you may be thinking of skipping Diplomatic Immunity.  But if you are thinking of skipping it -- don't.<br />The romance and deep characterization of Komarr, which I found plodding, was enjoyed by many fans, and while the light comedy of A Civil Campaign likewise had its adherents, I found it overly slight to the point of insignificance.  But subpar Miles is better than no Miles at all, so I persisted, and Dipolmatic Immunity rewarded my efforts.  It is a return to the fast-paced political adventure plots of old -- the kind of story in which a character like Miles can, and does, really shine.  Here, our fast-thinking hero walks into one of Bujold's trademark complicated yet comprehensible political squabbles, then finds himself matching wits with a shadowy and sinister opponent for whom no tactic is too evil or barbaric.<br />Diplomatic Immunity is written with Bujold's witty and quotable language, her evident love for her characters, and her cynical yet generally upbeat view of human nature.  Plus, we get to see some old friends from Miles's days as a secret agent-cum-mercenary.<br />If you read Bujold for fast-paced, gripping adventure, Diplomatic Immunity is just your thing.  And those who'd stick with Miles through thick and thin, as I have, will find this one of the best recent books in the Vorkosigan series.	2002-06-12
US	53013446	REGUZMGKWJCQ5	0385493002	911059821	The Intuitionist: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Spike Lee meets Ben Katchor	If Spike Lee married Ben Katchor, their son might write The Intuitionist.  But since this is unlikely to happen, Colson Whitehead had to do it instead.<br />A powerful racial allegory written with unpretentious clarity and a cynical, deadpan sense of humor, The Intuitionist is set in an unnamed but clearly New York-based metropolis that shares many qualities with the off-kilter city inhabited by Katchor's comic creation, Julius Knipl.  The Intuitionist's city could be an earlier, more vital stage of Julius Knipl's just-past-its-prime version of New York.  Whitehead vividly evokes this setting while telling a seriocomic story about a clash between factions of elevator inspectors that unexpectedly takes on racial overtones.  The Intuitionist is remarkable first for its setting, second for the matter-of-fact way Whitehead writes, which is witty, incisive, and intelligent without making it seem as if the author is in love with the sound of his own voice, and finally for the character of the protagonist, Lila Mae Watson, who is tightly wound and hard-bitten but still sympathetic.<br />The Intuitionist is well worth reading, and while it is a challenging read due to its depths and undercurrents, it is also a fast and enjoyable one because Whitehead does not neglect character, plot, and general readability in the name of \\"literature.\\"  If the reader will forgive a lame pun, like a well inspected elevator, The Intuitionist works on all its chosen levels.	2002-04-12
US	53013446	RE7BJFGHLTIRN	0415930634	44711383	Me Against My Brother: At War in Somalia, Sudan and Rwanda	Books	3	4	4	N	Y	Peterson leads with his heart	Scott Peterson&#8217;s Me Against My Brother is about the horrors of African war.  Peterson has covered it as a journalist for years, and is no fan of it.  In fact, he is unrelentingly negative.  For instance, in his largest section, on the UN intervention in Somalia, Western governmental powers (including the UN) can do no right.  When they ignore Somali famine, Peterson reviles them.  When they intervene after the worst of the famine is over, again Peterson reviles them.  When they fail to make a strong show of force and disarm the warlords, Peterson reviles them.  When they do make a strong show of force by attempting to disarm powerful warlord Mohamed Aidid &#8211; which leads to immediate street violence that leaves 25 Pakistani UN soldiers dead &#8211; again Peterson reviles them.  When they appease Aidid, Peterson reviles them; when they fight him, Peterson reviles them.  Peterson says the UN did not understand the Somali culture of violence and made themselves look foolish and weak, but when the UN struck back with an helicopter assault against key Aidid personnel, Peterson is horrified that the UN might do such a violent thing.  It&#8217;s not that I disagreed with most of what Peterson writes.  He points out errors and foibles with a practiced eye and a passionate pen, and his efforts have convinced me that there may have been no way to effectively intervene in Somalia &#8211; that, indeed, every move the UN made or could have made was a terrible error.  But he seems to have no point; he just lashes out in all directions, as if there&#8217;s a simple answer he is not telling us and it is everybody&#8217;s fault for not getting it.<br />Peterson makes up for his emotionalism in his later chapters on Sudan, not by being less impassioned or less negative but by better acknowledging the complexities of that situation.  While agonizing over the horrors of the Sudanese civil war and attacking various political and charitable organizations for their parts in it,he finally loses his self-righteousness and voices honest, complicated questions about how and whether outside intervention should have taken place.  He does not have the answers, but I do not count that against him since no one else does, either.  At least he is trying to draw lessons from these situations, rather than merely drubbing everyone in sight.  His closing chapters on Rwanda are his best yet, perhaps because the moral equation is even simpler, the evil even greater, than in Somalia and Sudan.<br />Despite the fact that I read the second paperback edition of this book, there were a number of typos and editorial screw-ups, including a couple of misspellings and a substantial number of mixed-up soundalikes (the most embarrassing being that the author twice, when he describes people chewing, says they are \\"emasculating\\" things rather than  \\"masticating\\" them).  But other than these errors, Peterson&#8217;s vivid and powerful writing works.  While Me Against My Brother is not a comprehensive policy discussion (even where it tries to be), the book perhaps fulfills a greater function.  Peterson&#8217;s authorial power and passionate heart make it impossible for the reader not to care about the subject matter, and want to find out more about it.  The generation that solves the problems Peterson decries can only do so if it knows about, and cares about, those problems.  Peterson is doing his part to bring that generation into being, and he deserves our thanks for it.	2002-02-12
US	53013446	R3DLR3KBCK3HBG	076152553X	349784694	The Tyranny of Good Intentions: How Prosecutors and Bureaucrats Are Trampling the Constitution in the Name of Justice	Books	3	97	130	N	N	Seriously flawed, but very useful	I'm giving this book three stars because it is very good at one thing, even though it is bad at most everything else.  Intended as a primer for a civil libertarian view of certain troubling legal trends, The Tyranny of Good Intentions fails on that level because it wears its bias on its sleeve in some staggeringly conclusory statements (for instance, blaming publicity-hungry feds for genocidal butchery against David Koresh) while failing to back them up.  No one who reads it and is not already convinced of the book's thesis could be converted by this supposed entry-level book.<br />And for those already committed to the cause espoused by the authors, this book contains little in the way of useful reasoning.  Its avowed purpose is to contrast Jeremy Bentham's utilitarian version of law, which it states is in force today, with Blackstone's absolutist version of civil liberties -- but instead of defeating Bentham's arguments, the authors call him names and say Blackstone's version of law is more traditional (i.e., older).  There are good arguments to be made against weighing peoples' civil rights against a general societal benefit.  For instance, whenever it's done and individual rights are made to yield to the public good, it seems that the public doesn't benefit.  But the authors do not discuss the contrast they claim they are making between absolute rights and utilitarianism; they just say utilitarianism loses, make fun of it, and move on.<br />Considering the two levels on which The Tyranny of Good Intentions is supposed to work are two on which it fails utterly, I find myself surprised to be giving in three stars.  But there is a level on which it is extremely useful.  The authors' research for emotional arguments to replace the logical ones they do not make has revealed a large number of concrete examples of injustice done to real, named people under the present system of proescutorial overenthusiasm.  While these are reported in the conclusory style I so deplore, they are useful beginnings to my own researches, and they make for splendid talking points.<br />There are people out there to whom the potential for abuse of governmental power is purely theoretical because they have never heard of anyone who actually suffered.  Properly used, the examples in this book can raise awareness that not only can government get out of hand, but it has.  No one who learns of the Depression-scarred doctor who kept cash in his shoeboxes, and had it seized when he tried to give it to charity, will look at drug forfeiture the same way again.  No one who hears of the pizza restaurant forced to clean toxic waste out of a landfill because some of its boxes were found in it will be an unequivocal supporter of the Superfund.<br />For all its many faults, The Tyranny of Good Intentions will raise the level of skepticism about government power, and for this alone it is worth the three stars I give it.  The price of liberty is eternal vigilance, and this book is an inspiration to pay this price.	2001-12-25
US	53013446	RORY0NODNA6L	0345383044	618631054	Jihad vs. McWorld: Terrorism's Challenge to Democracy	Books	2	11	16	N	N	Great idea; poor execution	Jihad vs. McWorld contains at its heart a very intriguing concept - the relationship between mass consumer culture and xenophobic subculture.  Many significant modern events and movements can be explained in terms of the uneasy relationship between these two social phenomena.  Unfortunately, the Jihad vs. McWorld paradigm is the most valuable part of this book, and you can get it by reading the title and back cover.  On the inside, the book gets worse.<br />One problem is that the author, while he has done exhaustive research, does not apply it well in his arguments.  For example, he asks us to contrast the growth of two forms of alternative energy sources.  He describes the growth of one by the increase in the number of kilowatt-hours of power it generated over several years, and describes the growth of the other by its increase as a percentage of market share over a different set of years.  No meaningful comparison can be made between these two very different measurements; the author is comparing apples and oranges.  Another problem is that the author occasionally meanders into interesting discussions that do not advance his thesis and which he does not connect to it.  His discussion of Russia's post-Communist collapse is fun, but even he admits that circumstances there are so unique that the lessons to be drawn from it may not apply elsewhere.  Finally, the author's writing style is frustratingly dense and pretentious.  He hasn't met a ten-dollar word he doesn't like, and his attempts at poetic technique made me want to bang my head against the desk.  This is not merely the nature of the material:  astrophysicists have explained more complicated concepts with simpler language.<br />The Jihad vs. McWorld paradigm is a useful one that I have found myself using as I think about current events.  The author deserves a place in political history for having identified and named it.  However, his elaboration of the concept leaves much to be desired.	2001-12-01
US	53013446	RKQPJ56FHES4M	0312862202	604611650	Amnesia Moon	Books	3	26	31	N	N	Lethem Loves Mystery More Than Solutions	When I want a well-written book with a little imagination that I can knock off in a few hours, I pick up a book by Lethem. Amnesia Moon is my third, after Gun with Occasional Music and As She Climbed Across the Table. Compared to those two, I found Amnesia Moon superior in writing style and imagination. Lethem strings together his flights of imaginative fancy better than he did in Gun and has more of them than he did in Table. Also, despite the episodic nature of this story of an amnesiac who travels between alternate realities in a dreamlike odyessy, Lethem achieves a strong narrative flow to keep his audience reading.<br />However, though he gives tantalizing hints as to the nature of the disaster that has turned the world into a patchwork of alternate societies with different pasts and rules, Lethem never commits to an answer. The solutions to the central mysteries our hero attempts to solve in his journey -- who he is, what happened, what his role in it was -- are promised, but Lethem reneges at the last moment. Where the answers are not important to the story, this does not bother me. (See K.W. Jeter's novel Farewell Horizontal for a strange setting that is never explained, and in which the lack of explanation is no detriment to the book.) But here, I got the sense Lethem would just plain rather be obscure -- or worse, that he could not think of a satisfying explanation and hoped that his failure to give us one would be written off as artistry.<br />The journey to this unsatisfying ending is the best stuff of Lethem's I've read. I was completely absorbed by the story, enjoyed the characters, and loved his style. This would have been a four star book if he'd been able to follow through to the end.	2001-11-11
US	53013446	R2WVUXNSATKH3	0930289927	85702658	Beautiful Stories for Ugly Children: What If This Were Heaven, Wouldn't That Be Hell?	Books	2	5	11	N	Y	Slight	This book is either a heavily illustrated short story collection or a text-heavy comic.  Its unusual format is its most original feature.  Its plots are negligible, but its illustrations and text evoke a unique atmosphere of self-conscious nonconformism.  Although its target audience is dare-to-be-different teens and college students, its interesting turns of phrase and expressive line drawings are not devoid of interest for general audences.	2001-07-29
US	53013446	RTORK75V88D7N	0316482943	374645494	Julius Knipl, Real Estate Photographer: Stories (Library)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	You can only get it here	Ben Katchor's eerie cityscapes evoke the ruins of the kind of world that appeared to be happening in the background of 1950's films noir, and his fanciful industries, charities, and fraternal organizations hearken back to the same imagined time.  Reading his work, one becomes nostalgic for a time that never existed.  This form of humor is subtle.  In fact, it is not the humor for which I buy Katchor's work as much as it is for that strange feeling of fictional nostalgia.  You can get humor anywhere, but Katchor's world view is unique to the man himself.  If you ever get jaded, remember this review:  immersing yourself in a book of Katchor's is unlike anything you've ever felt before.	2001-07-29
US	53013446	R3MP73WOMCM68J	0380816032	263472515	The Big U	Books	3	8	8	N	Y	Messy fun	I guess this is what you get when you let a brilliant but immature writer try to cover Catch-22 in a university setting.  The first half of The Big U is a fun but overbroad campus satire; then Stephenson gets tired of that and shifts the story into a full-out action-adventure in which the groups he set up earlier as amusing satires of real university phenomena become warring factions when law and order breaks down.  Although this part is a disappointment from a satirical perspective, it is more inventively written than the first half -- Stephenson's version of such chaos is complex and realistic in the way everyone's schemes are immediately trampled by everyone else's.  Stephenson recycled and improved this &quot;every man for himself&quot; chaos in the riot scene in The Diamond Age years later.  We also see Stephenson's early interest in The Origin of Consciousness in the Breakdown of the Bicameral Mind, which he later raised to wild heights in Snow Crash.<br />You can see the training wheels -- this is by no means a great novel (as Snow Crash is) -- but The Big U will have historical interest for Stephenson fans, and it is a frothy, fun diversion in its own right.	2001-05-24
US	53013446	R1I2SJS7G89GES	1560973919	27770032	Maakies	Books	2	9	14	N	N	So dark it makes Sock Monkey look like Richie Rich	I came to this collection of Tony Millionaire's weekly comic strip through my love of his classic Dark Horse comic book, Sock Monkey, which preserves Millionaire's Victorian settings and his astounding artwork but in which the humor is ordinarily innocent except for a mordant twist at the end that you wouldn't want to show your kids.  The relative purity of the rest of the humor in Sock Monkey made the horror at the end more wrenching.  It gives Sock Monkey a unique flavor, but even so, the horror is not a large part of the book.  Imagine my surprise when I discovered that Millionaire's weekly comic strip, which I had expected to be skewed to a larger audience than the comic book, was as bleak and nasty as the final panels of a Sock Monkey story, and frequently far worse.<br />Maakies is a collection of wonderfully drawn stories about the self-loathing alcoholic Drinky Crow and his vulgar monkey companion Uncle Gabby, who wallow in drink and degradation except when they screw up and kill themselves.  Despite the unremitting horrors they experience, from venereal disease to death at the hands of their nautical enemies the French crocodiles, Drinky Crow and Uncle Gabby wittily rue their drinking and keep their chins up.  The juxtaposition of the old-style art and old-time British nautical themes and language with gore, death, and nastiness is more eerie than funny, but is highly compelling in a guilty sort of way.<br />Maakies is definitely not for all audiences, or, I would imagine, even most audiences.  I suggest reading Sock Monkey first.  If you think Sock Monkey is fine but does not go far enough, then try Maakies.	2001-05-21
US	53013446	R3BH81M8J8UPMA	0312864744	356296858	Ports of Call	Books	4	23	23	N	N	No one writes like Vance	I heard that Jack Vance was slowing down in his old age, but I bought Ports of Call anyway, figuring that bad Vance is better than no Vance at all.  Perhaps it was the reduction in my expectations from the negative opinions I'd heard about the book, but Ports of Call came as a very pleasant surprise to me.<br />It's true that there is nothing of the epic scope of some of Vance's other works in this book.  It is also true that there is even less structure to the story of Myron Tany's career as a spacecraft crewman than Vance put in even nearly plotless picaresque adventures such as his Cugel books.  Tany just wanders in search of adventure and exotic situations.  But that's fine, because he gets in adventures and exotic situations, and they are beautifully written in Vance's elegant style and conceived by Vance's inimitable mind.  They're a kick to read even if they don't seem to be leading to some huge climax down the road.  The whole &quot;life goes on,&quot; &quot;one thing after another&quot; feel of the book even evolves into a kind of theme in itself, causing me to reflect that life itself does not have an arc or a climax.  I wonder whether Vance did this on purpose in case he does not have time to complete the series on Myron Tany he obviously contemplates.<br />When I think of how the other greats, like Asimov, Heinlein, and Clarke, sold themselves at the end of their careers, allowing lesser writers to graft themselves to their finest works for marketing purposes, I love Vance even more for doing his own work and staying true to his own vision.  Ports of Call proves that he remains the master we know and love.  If he's slowing down a bit, becoming a bit more contemplative and deliberate, digressing a bit more, that's not necessarily a bad thing.	2001-04-29
US	53013446	R7M9FH9ISJ7UI	0812571096	598366215	Blind Waves	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Gould rocks	Gould's first two books, Jumper and Wildside, are ovelooked classics of SF.  His third, Helm, which was his first attempt at world-building (as opposed to introducing a single SF element in our world), was not so good.  I worried that Gould was losing it, but he has returned to form with Blind Waves.<br />Blind Waves is a rollicking thriller with fun characters, a twistier plot than expected, and a fully realized and extremely well utilized setting among the ruins of a U.S. coastline flooded by melting Antarcic ice.  Gould's muscular prose propels his heroes through a series of imaginative and dangerous predicaments.   And Gould's heroes, although perhaps not the most realistic out there, are the kind of people I like and care about, not grim jerks.  I always like an adventure better if it's about people I'd like to hang out with, and Gould's heroes Patricia and Thomas fit the bill.<br />Gould exceeds his own high standards here on many levels, from his meticulously researched maritime environment to his plot, which is far less simple than it seems.  And he manages this without sacrificing his strengths, which are his clear writing style and compelling characters.  In Blind Waves, Gould succeeded in the world-building he failed at in Helm.  He has added a powerful new skill to his already burgeoning repertoire -- there's nowhere for the man to go but up.  I eagerly await his next work.	2001-04-08
US	53013446	R1YDCMI74RBQJK	0958578346	325728610	From Hell	Books	4	133	148	N	N	A couple of caveats	This is a classic work, as dense and as demanding as any novel, and perhaps the closest to literature a graphic novel has ever come.  It could only have flowed from the pen of the great Alan Moore, whose Swamp Thing and Watchmen revolutionized graphic storytelling.  He and Eddie Campbell have done wonderful work here.  I merely write to correct a couple of errors in other reviews.<br />First,  jplatt@webspan.net says this is only the first part of From Hell.  The pictured edition does, I believe, contain the entire story, although there are single comics containing single chapters and other trade paperbacks containing fewer chapters than the above pictured edition.  If you buy the pictured edition, you are getting a complete story from beginning to end.  I read the above edition and found nothing missing -- it goes from before the first murder to after the last.<br />Second, editor Rob Lightner says that Moore believes, and wants us to believe, that Jack the Ripper was the Queen's physician and part of a Masonic conspiracy to kill the mother of Queen Victoria's grandson.  I think this misses the point.  Moore loves to make connections between things (see, for instance, his ongoing series Promethea), and the Masonic conspiracy gives him a lot of room to weave in the various aspects of the Ripper legend.  I don't know that he necessarily believes it any more than he believes, as shown in From Hell, that the killer was able to predict the future while he was gutting his victims.  Moore is a storyteller and his story contains many fantastic elements.  It would be a mistake, I think, to attribute to Moore all the opinions expressed in this fine work of fiction.	2001-04-08
US	53013446	R3C8ZUH88L8KPC	0520216121	865947898	Denying History: Who Says the Holocaust Never Happened and Why Do They Say It?	Books	5	14	23	N	N	A predictable (and correct) conclusion - with a twist ending	The most qualified people tend to underestimate the most ridiculous arguments, because they have a good handle on why they're ridiculous, and ignore them.  That gives the ridiculous arguments a chance to catch hold in the minds of those susceptible to the emotions those arguments are designed to serve.  I got Denying History so I would have ammunition the next time I ran into a Holocaust denier, and the book delivered.  The authors are meticulous and authoritative, and their tone is even -- passionate in places without being hysterical or angry.<br />What I did not expect from Denying History was the way the final chapter shows us how the tools we use to determine the Holocaust occurred and that its denial is more pathology than history can also be used to determine the same about other historical (or pseudohistorical) movements.  By selecting an example that, despite its usefulness, is also an easy and noncontroversial target, Shermer and Grobman are able to teach us the tools we will need to challenge beliefs that may be closer to our hearts, without the resistance we might feel if the authors took a straight run at our own personal sacred calves.<br />That's the surprise ending of Denying History.  I thought I was getting an excellent education on a single pseudohistorical issue, Holocaust denial.  Instead, almost by stealth, I was getting an excellent education on all of them.	2001-04-05
US	53013446	RTRXE4KTZGMMF	0345391780	608322438	The Princes in the Tower	Books	3	4	7	N	N	A quick, solid read, but Weir seems too sure	As one whose first foray into Richardology, Josephine Tey's Daughter of Time, was a pro-Richard book that inclined me to believe Richard killed the Princes, I figured I should look up an anti-Richard book and see whether it sent me in the other direction.  I picked Weir because I had already enjoyed her nearly painless description of the complexities of the War of the Roses in her earlier book of that title.<br />Weir's book is short, with strong prose and an emphasis on the fundamentals of the historical background, but it depends more and more on speculation the closer it comes to the actual question of Richard's guilt.  This is, of course, a problem everybody has, since the one thing everyone agrees on is that the deaths of the Princes were shrouded in secrecy.  Unfortunately, like Tey, Weir fails to admit the facts are hazy and instead uses the language of certainty right where everybody's case gets shaky.  I guess it's beyond the abilities of even the finest historical writers (Tey and Weir are both excellent) to run the gauntlet of the mystery of the Princes in the Tower without coming out of it as a true believer one way or the other.<br />In an atmosphere as charged as the Princes in the Tower controversy, the only way a reader will be able to get enough information to form an opinion is to sample the biases of both sides.  Weir's book would be a valuable addition to anyone's fund of knowledge on the subject, particularly for its clear outline of the years before Richard III's reign began.  However, it should not be taken as the final word on the subject.<br />And in case anyone's interested, Weir's book left me leaning the same way it found me -- towards the belief Richard III had the Princes killed.	2001-03-21
US	53013446	R11VKVOLYGEKAT	0802713610	905195727	The Boxer Rebellion: The Dramatic Story of China's War on Foreigners That Shook the World in the Summer of 1900.	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Every generation gets the Boxer Rebellion it deserves	When I got The Boxer Rebellion I was looking for a companion to The Siege of Peking by Peter Fleming, which focused, as the title implies, on the siege of the foreign legations during the rebellion.  However, Fleming's account and Diana Preston's tread much the same ground, take much from the same primary sources, and are even written with somewhat the same sense of even-handedness in doling out blame.  Among the differences in these lively accounts of the Boxer Rebellion, one of the most important is a difference in tone.  Preston's account is less judgmental and more empathetic than Fleming's amusingly acerbic 1959 work.  Fleming enjoys characterizing, one might say pigeonholing, the various personalities of the siege, while Preston takes pains to find the good in reviled figures and vice versa.  Also, as one might expect from a book written at the turn of the millennium, Preston's book gives us a better idea of the plight of the women and Christian Chinese trapped in the legations and the unprotected missionaries across the country.  Meanwhile, Fleming gives a little more military detail.<br />While I had hoped for a greater view of the Chinese side from Preston, she suffers from the same lack of primary Chinese materials that hobbled Fleming (who in any event cared less).  If she cannot give us anything definite, at least she tells us when she is guessing -- Fleming's speculations generally go unlabelled.<br />Despite these differences, the thing that strikes me most about The Boxer Rebellion and The Siege of Peking are their similarities.  To Fleming's credit, he and Preston are equally critical of the Western rapacity and condescension that inspired the Boxers (Fleming titles one chapter &quot;The White Peril,&quot; a typical example of his brand of humor).  For a deeper and more objective account of the Boxer Rebellion, Preston should get the nod, while military detail and cutting humor distinguish Fleming.  Both are excellently written popular histories thatread fast and well, and both will stay in my permanent collection.	2001-02-09
US	53013446	R219NVLA8QNC0P	0195135156	53004101	Voodoo Science: The Road from Foolishness to Fraud	Books	4	17	21	N	N	A walk in the Park	Voodoo Science is the best skeptical book I have read yet.  Organizing itself loosely around the theory that well-intentioned people can go from being wrong about matters of science to investing so much in their wrong theory that they will eventually prefer to turn their backs on science rather than admit a mistake, the book, subtitled &quot;The Road from Foolishness to Fraud,&quot; uses cold fusion and perpetual motion as its leading examples but also takes on a laundry list of odd or (in its author's opinion) unwarranted beliefs from UFOs and the French &quot;sniffer plane&quot; to global warning and the Star Wars missile defense shield.  Author Robert Park, a physicist by training, explains his views with laudable brevity and the greatest clarity and common sense I have seen in a book of this type.  His writing style is also funny, and it contains just the right amount of sarcasm.  If you make too much fun of peoples' cherished paranormal beliefs, you just insult them; if you take them too seriously, they find a way to think you believe them.  Park  walks the fine line between in a way I find the most effective yet.  (Of course, as a fellow-traveler of Park's, I admit I do not know whether my belief that Park's way is best is borne out by its effect on an unconvinced audience.)<br />Besides being short, cogent, and respectful enough for a wide audience, Voodoo Science was valuable to a committed skeptic like me for its wealth of understandable explanations for physical phenomena I had grasped imperfectly or had been unable to explain simply before I read it.  Park's arguments are so good I even agreed with him where I disagreed with him - his chapter on the absurd cost/benefit ratio of the manned space program is right on target, but I'll take humans in space on any terms I can get them, while Park apparently thinks we should quit trying to get people out of the gravity well.<br />If I were king of the world, the first thing I'd do after getting Simon and Garfunkel back together would be to get a copy of Voodoo Science to every household with a TV set.	2001-01-28
US	53013446	R2GPT4ZT9A3FVN	076560244X	675898396	Azerbaijan Diary: A Rogue Reporter's Adventures in an Oil-rich, War-torn, Post-Soviet Republic	Books	3	14	20	N	N	Solid and useful	Azerbaijan Diary details in microcosm the difficulties of building a functioning modern nation.  The author was a reporter in Azerbaijan during its difficult first years of statehood in the early Nineties and had enough high-level access to give us a personal view of the significant events of its political development, describing the forces at work and the people upon whom they worked.  We get vivid descriptions of the problems of pandemic corruption, the temptations of totalitarianism, the difficulties of remaining independent as the nation is wooed by nation after nation with varying interests in Azerbaijan (particularly its rich oilfields), and the poison of ethnic and nationalist strife which leads to a grueling war that could doom the nascent state in its infancy.  These pressures make nation-building different everywhere, but Azerbaijan had and advantage over, say, Haiti, in that Azerbaijan has a wealth of natural resources, which gives other nations, potential trading partners, a reason to support it in its quest for stability.  This one chance, however, is not necessarily enough to save it from its self-imposed problems, much less the ones visited upon it from without.<br />Much has been made of the author's pro-Azerbaijan stance on that proto-nation's war with Armenia over the Nagorno Karabakh region.  Speaking as someone with no stake in the region, I think Goltz revealed his bias clearly enough to allow us to read his work critically, and I don't know how one might expect someone who lived in Baku, Azerbaijan's capitol, for years not to become partial to his friends.  However, accusations that Goltz is a liar, paid spy, collaborator, and propagandist seem unfounded, and the outlandish venom with which they are expressed make it hard for me to take them seriously.  Even more disturbing, however, are those who claim that Goltz is doing us a disservice by not engaging in one of those debates about whose ethnic group got to a certain region first and therefore deserves to occupy it for all time.  Goltz takes the area as he finds it, explicitly refusing to play the &quot;I got here first&quot; game, which always seems to end up being an exercise in creative history writing and ethnic cleansing.  For this I commend him.  If more people took this view, problems like Azerbaijan's would be more easily solved - heck, the whole human condition would improve.<br />Regardless of Goltz's views on Armenia and Nagorno Karabakh, he is certainly able to view the heart of the book, Azerbaijan's political development from colony to state, with a detached, even cynical realism.  Azerbaijan Diary is a valuable work in itself as a primer on post-Soviet problems and the difficulty of creating order from chaos in the modern world.	2001-01-28
US	53013446	R1RD0AON56FVRZ	0441004261	970944154	Cradle of Splendor	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Anthony gets it right	Patricia Anthony's oblique style of storytelling is usually an ill fit with her broad-stroke plots, which is why her novels Brother Termite and Happy Policeman missed the mark and are worth reading only for Anthony's stylism. In Cradle of Splendor, however (as with Cold Allies before it), Anthony finds a plot sufficiently multifaceted and enigmatic to match her style. It is hard to explain the plot, not only because so much of it is a surprise but also because so much of it is left to speculation. Given how little of the story is spelled out, it is surprising how well Anthony's writing holds the reader's attention. I cannot call Cradle of Splendor a failure because it leaves us with so many questions, possibilities, and levels upon which it can be taken. I am sure that was Anthony's intent, and I found it a welcome and interesting challenge. Her ambiguity would make Cradle of Splendor an excellent novel for book-club discussion -- and her writing makes it a good read.	2000-12-07
US	53013446	R3OKL9ZI0EVS5V	0716733870	702232531	Why People Believe Weird Things: Pseudoscience, Superstition, and Other Confusions of Our Time	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Elementary yet original	Shermer's primer on skepticism has little to teach someone who's subscribed to the Skeptical Inquirer for more than a few months, but for beginners it would likely be an engaging and nonthreatening read.  Even for dyed-in-the-wool cynics, Shermer's choice of examples for types of mental fallacy make the book worth reading.  His real life experiences with health faddism are amusingly retold and give him credibility, while his controversial selection of Objectivism as an example of a cult is both original and an additional proof of his own (so to speak) objectivity.  Many skeptics have attempted the definitive popularization of their philosophy -- so far, of those I've seen, Shermer has come closest to creating it.	2000-11-21
US	53013446	R1NMV9O42LL9CF	0090883705	854386856	The giant under the snow	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A minor classic	A suspense novel for readers of about junior high school level, The Giant Under the Snow concerns English schoolkids Jonquil, Bill, and Arf (short  for Arthur), who become entangled in a magical struggle for what appears to  be the spirit of the land itself.  Gordon's writing is evocative and  atmospheric, his characters are finely drawn and non-stereotypical, and the  fantastic elements of the story are so original that they still seem fresh  today, decades after I first read this book as a youngster.  This book  deserves a new print run.	2000-08-17
US	53013446	R3NDOE7PTTTNU6	0942679180	674573361	Victims of Memory: Sex Abuse Accusations and Shattered Lives	Books	3	25	38	N	N	A good overview	Exhaustively researched and persuasively argued, Victims of Memory is another good book in the growing, and needed, field of the debunking of the &quot;recovered memory&quot; movement.  Early chapters about the history of  the movement and the highlights of its watershed cases are excellent  surveys, as are the histories of similar psychological fads such as  multiple personality disorder diagnoses, child abuse ring accusations, and  even Freudianism.<br />The book's heart, however, is in the chapters in which  the author interviews recovered memory therapists, patients, people accused  of abuse based on &quot;recovered&quot; memories, and those who have  realized their accusations were false (&quot;retractors&quot;).  These  chapters are insightful, moving, and surprisingly even-handed.<br />As a  summary of the recovered memory movement and its shortcomings, this book is  excellent.  It falls down when the author attempts to explain why this  strange phenomenon is happening now.  He gives us possible reasons from  urban malaise through ecological concerns and selfishness to pre-millenial  tension.  This laundry list of societal factors, which he says proves we  are a &quot;society in upheaval,&quot; sounds like the same list Democrats  use to explain why there are Republicans, Republicans use to explain why  there are Democrats, cops use to explain why there are criminals, and old  folks use to explain why things were better in their day.<br />Of course, the  most important thing about the recent plague of &quot;recovered&quot;  memories is that we understand they are likely false and scrutinize them  carefully.  Victims of Memory should be useful in raising awareness on the  subject, as it is powerful in both its logic and its emotional tone.  If it  cannot also answer its question, &quot;why now?&quot;, well, neither can  anyone else.	2000-07-31
US	53013446	R1ASTC5PA27AIP	0380731622	479178648	Loot	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Not a departure for Elkins, despite different marketing	Aaron Elkins has always been an uneasy fit in the mystery genre where his books about &quot;Bone Detective&quot; Gideon Oliver have been pigeonholed. His books are more adventures than mysteries, and the mystery elements tend to seem like plot twists rather than clues. Loot, starring new Elkins protagonist Ben Revere, is marketed as a thriller, which I suppose makes as much sense as mystery does for the kind of book Elkins writes. But make no mistake - despite the change in marketing strategy, this is a vintage Elkins work, much of a piece with his Chris Norgren art &quot;mysteries.&quot;<br />When I say that Loot is much like Elkins's other work, that is a recommendation. Elkins's writing style is wonderful: knowing without being jaded, cynical without being downbeat, and full of amusing and telling details. When I read his Gideon Oliver mysteries, I end up wishing I were an anthropologist; when I read his Chris Norgren mysteries, I end up wishing I were a curator in a fine arts museum. Finishing Loot, I found myself caught up in the hero's quest to repatriate art stolen during World War II. I keep hoping that he will one day spawn a host of Elkins imitators I can read, but until then, you can only get the Elkins style from Elkins.	2000-07-16
US	53013446	R3IM1RO4ZVSLGO	1902002164	74030128	The Iron Dream	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A fascinating literary exercise	This is a remarkable book and I think it succeeds on every level it tries for.  The parallels to Hitler's real-life obsessions are clear and yet the book is queasily crowd-pleasing in its battle scenes and depiction of the  hero.  The prose is appropriately pulpish, muscular and visceral --  second-rate yet compelling.<br />I have never read nor seen Battlefield: Earth  by L. Ron Hubbard (or his ghost, in any of that word's several meanings),  but the concept of near-cavemen defeating a technologically superior enemy  and bootstrapping themselves into fabulously high tech levels within a  short period of time because they are led by a pure and righteous hero --  which is what I understand Battlefield: Earth to be -- could have been  lifted directly from The Iron Dream.  This would be an interesting response  to Spinrad's thinly veiled broadside against Scientology in The Mind Game.	2000-07-05
US	53013446	R14S1H603HQ4Q4	0446607584	955920901	Playing God	Books	3	3	4	N	N	First I've read by Zettel, but it won't the last	Although slow-starting, Playing God resolves into a hard-charging actioner by the end.  What I liked most about it was the way the action sequences sprung from, and led to, complications.  No battle plan, as they say, survives first contact with the enemy, and Zettel has taken this adage to  heart.  She creates scenes in which first one of the novel's many factions,  then another, takes an unexpected and intelligent action that alters the  course of the plot in ways that none of the other factions could have  predicted.  Rather than having the plot run as though by clockwork  progression from one scene to the next, Zettel has the plot grow  organically from the thicket of conflicting personalities and cultures in  the book.<br />This is a less predictable, more interesting way of writing  than one usually finds, and also a more difficult one.  This intricate  plotting is the best feature of Playing God.  Other good features include a  fascinating and fully realized alien species and a sprightly writing  style.<br />There are a few drawbacks to this book.  The first quarter of the  book is pedestrian, the humans are not characterized in great detail, and  the inevitable drawback to the complicated, organic style of plotting  Zettel uses is the impossibility of neatly tying up all loose ends.  Still,  I think the good substantially outweighs the bad.  I liked Playing God, and  I'll be reading more of Zettel's work.	2000-05-03
US	53013446	RK3F2SQZRNIV1	1568360509	891837497	Trespassers on the Roof of the World: The Secret Exploration of Tibet (Kodansha Globe)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Hopkirk's enthusiasm is infectious	Although it's full of educational historic detail, Trespassers reads like an adventure novel because of Hopkirk's clearly evident passion for his subject and his anecdotal presentation.  Hopkirk's fascinating stories about individual adventurers and their techniques gives us a feel not just  for what happened during the time and place that is his subject, but also  what it felt like.  We get not just fact but flavor.<br />Hopkirk's  enthusiastic writing style is only matched by the depth of his knowledge.   One cannot help becoming as fascinated by the Western exploration of Tibet  as Hopkirk himself is.  This is the best of Hopkirk's impressive body of  work on the history of the high Central Asian lands, but all of them are  worth reading and educate the reader about what is, in the United States,  an obscure area of the world.  And they're all so fun to read it didn't  even feel like they were good for me!	2000-05-03
US	53013446	REWHKULPMY8NT	1563896702	301957744	Scene of the Crime: A Little Piece of Goodnight	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Fine mystery, good cast of characters.	I like detective stories only when they're well told. Dashiel Hammett, Raymond Chandler, Ross Macdonald, Walter Mosley, Robert Parker, and Sue Grafton are the only ones I read regularly. Brubaker's work here is in that class.<br />Brubaker creates a great family-tangled-in-the-past mystery a la Ross Macdonald and adds a cast of supporting characters for the private detective that is only rivaled by those created by Robert B. Parker, from a persnickety crime-scene photographer to a bellicose national-agency private operator.<br />The real contribution this book makes to the genre, though, is its protagonist, Jack Herriman, whose youth makes for a refreshing contrast with most classic detectives but whose former morally questionable lifestyle, which began at the age of 14, gives him a moral depth of greater immediacy than that of most private eyes. While other detectives have seen everything, this kid has already done everything. This gives the story a new perspective, which Brubaker makes the most of.<br />I hope Brubaker takes time out from his regular series, Deadenders, to write more Herriman stories. And I hope Michael Lark sticks with the book, too -- his work is as good here as it was in Terminal City.	2000-04-24
US	53013446	R2J95MY80HVJBI	0380718774	911494096	Beggars in Spain (Beggars Trilogy)	Books	3	22	25	N	N	Intriguing	I like the way this book faces squarely a very real possibility -- that thanks to genetic technology, the next time we get paranoid over a kind of person, it could be a kind of person that really is better than we are.   Kress avoids easy answers, yet writes a satisfying novel that's only  occasionally preachy (and, which is very rare, becomes LESS preachy rather  than more as it approaches the end!).<br />I think the way I read Beggars in  Spain is best -- I read to the end of what was clearly the part of the book  that was the novella that won the Hugo and Nebula, then put the book down  for a week and read another one, then picked Beggars back up.  The novella  is the best part, and if the book had ended there, it would have been a  better story.  However, picking up after a while and reading the rest as  though it were an inferior sequel, I was able to appreciate the novella and  still enjoy the rest of the book for what it offered without judging it too  harshly.	2000-03-28
US	53013446	RMPILHEBL2HM	0887307833	33432567	Dragonfly: NASA And The Crisis Aboard Mir	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Lots of good writing, lots of finger-pointing	Burroughs's book is gossipy, sometimes even catty, but at the same time one must admire its even-handedness.  At one time or another, everyone looks like a jerk, and every policy is criticized.<br />Despite its negative  tone, however -- it focuses on everybody in the NASA/Mir Phase One  program's criticisms of everyone else -- Dragonfly is very credible.  It is  exhaustively researched and comprehensive, and by airing everyone's  complaints Buroughs heads off accusations of bias.  This gives Burroughs's  conclusions about the program greater authority.<br />Most importantly,  Burroughs is an engaging writer, and the subject matter is exciting.  His  narratives of the fire aboard Mir and its later decompression emergency are  thrilling enough, and the information he gives us about the Russian/US  space partnership is interesting enough, that Dragonfly is well worth  reading even with its occasional descents into scandal-mongering.	2000-03-03
US	53013446	R30J8LNJPDF11Y	0671578200	437252316	Field of Dishonor (Honor Harrington Series, Book 4)	Books	1	3	30	N	N	Setting a historical novel in space doesn't make it SF	Just read my first (and last) Honor Harrington book by David Weber, and it's set in (get this) the Star Kingdom of Manticore, where there's a Victorian-style nobility including the rank of Space Lord.  It's a clumsily  written love-fest in which all good and right-thinking people spend pages  of internal dialogue thinking about how much they love the protagonist and  all evil and greedy people instinctively become terrified and repelled  whenever she draws near.<br />Weber should have given a little more thought to  how a complete clone of the British Empire could have sprung up and thrived  in space (complete with Houses of Lords and Commons, a Victoria-like queen  named Elizabeth III, the tradition of taking a ship in prize, and even  duelling with seconds).  Lois Bujold gets away with her feudalistic star  empire by giving it an imaginative backstory including reasons for every  imagined similarity (her Counts are actually the emperor's regional  acCOUNTants, shortened because of the pun, and the shorter name stuck).   Instead, Weber simply uses the Victorian pastiche a substitute for his own  imagination (if any).<br />Someone else who wrote a review here said he or she  was giving up on military SF after reading Field of Dishonor.  I can see  why one might, but Lois Bujold is light-years ahead of this stuff -- she's  still worth a look.  Don't give up!	2000-01-27
US	53013446	R16YCDND9TEI5P	0553576399	15854629	Distraction	Books	3	35	39	N	N	Pleasant escapist fare	Bruce Sterling eats Neal Stephenson's lunch with Distraction, a near-future techno-political thriller that's strongly reminiscent of Stephenson's Cryptonomicon and Interface (which Stephenson and his uncle  wrote under the pen name Stephen Bury).  I don't mind this because I loved  those other books, though it's strange to see Sterling borrowing rather  than being borrowed from.<br />Sterling's technological and political  speculations are interesting and plausible, and his plot moves right along,  propelled by informal but evocative language and a lot of humor.  The best  part of the book, though, is its protagonist, Oscar Valparasio, who  combines the genius and audacity of Lois Bujold's character Miles  Vorkosigan with a personal reserve and opacity that makes us even more  interested in finding out what he's really like.  Sterling actually manages  to keep Oscar mysterious even though we're seeing through his eyes  throughout the book.<br />Distraction is mostly about the ride -- like another  of my favorite Sterling books, Heavy Weather, it has little pretension to  epic scope or deep literary meaning -- but it has enough depth to make it a  worthwhile read.  My chief complaint is that it drowns in cynicism towards  the end, leaving us with a downbeat and overlong ending and nothing much in  the way of climax.  A classic character like Oscar deserved a better  sendoff.	2000-01-04
US	53013446	R2KH284G49C9R8	0375403515	187858272	Within Reason: Rationality and Human Behavior	Books	2	6	8	N	N	Strangely free of useful content	This book is more of a manifesto than an education.  Calne sets forth statements with which I largely agree, while giving short shrift to the basis for those statements and even less attention to the consequences of  the truth of those statements.<br />This is not a book about why we should  agree with Calne, and it is not a book about what people who agree with  Calne should do -- it is merely a book explaining what Calne believes.  I  was in the market for a book that gives his fellow-travellers, like me,  some ammunition for argument and discussion, and even some things to think  about.  But this is not that book.  At best, it's preaching to the choir.	1999-10-16
US	53013446	R2BQGFLPYTODER	0684803860	59773996	The Daughter of Time	Books	3	8	16	N	N	Paradoxical	A pleasant little historical screed, Daughter of Time seems to be in love with revisionism for its own sake.  To the detriment of its thesis, it presents all arguments against Richard III's villainy as good arguments,  and all arguments for his villainy as bad arguments.  While the factual  arguments set out in the book, such as the unreliability of More's account  of Richard III's reign and the lateness of the accusations against Richard,  are persuasive, Tey also places great reliance upon her (and her  characters, Grant and Carradine's) ability to judge a man's character and  motives from his face and his actions after 400 years.  This kind of  &quot;a person like X would never have done Y&quot; argument counts for  beans with me -- people are way too complex for such simple and subjective  judgments.<br />When it is not writing in full-out polemic mode, Tey's  dialogue is urbane and fun to read.  If she had only had the sense to  separate the good arguments for her thesis from the bad ones, she would  have been convincing as well as entertaining.	1999-09-16
US	53013446	R3EWWX09QDBLXD	0393038025	818314744	RL's Dream	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Mosley steps out of genre to create a classic	Walter Mosley was always an uneasy fit in the detective genre, and except for Blue Light, his works outside that genre were more compelling than the stuff that made him famous -- Gone Fishin' and Always Outnumbered both  outshine his mysteries.<br />I think this is because what Mosley is best at is  creating characters deeply affected by their roots in Southern poverty and  racism.  Having to shoehorn the characters and incidents he wants to talk  about into even the unconventional format of the Easy Rawlins mysteries  makes for an uneasy fit.  Always Outnumbered, Gone Fishin', and RL's Blues  are less plot-oriented, more freewheeling, and they give Mosley the room to  spread out.  Like a musician, Mosley is often at his best when he is just  riffing.  Much as he describes blues lyrics in this book, putting words  together that don't make sense unless you are there hearing them with the  audience, Mosley puts scenes together in ways that defy traditional  narrative yet increase their emotional power.<br />Freed of the constraints of  his mysteries, Mosley has created a very powerful work containing several  exquisitely drawn characters and some of the most moving prose I've read in  years.  RL's Dream ranks among the best works of one of the few popular  novelists today who I think we'll still be reading, even studying, a  hundred years from now.	1999-08-12
US	53013446	RS8OM3ZSF7B2A	0312856830	288499140	A Deepness in the Sky	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Tops A Fire Upon the Deep	In his best work since Marooned in Realtime, Vinge gives us a giant space epic with fascinating aliens much in the spirit of his last novel, the Hugo-winning A Fire Upon the Deep, only with harder science and a  correspondingly reduced temptation to solve story problems with  technological surprises.<br />Vinge's best known as SF's great idea man -- the  inventor of cyberspace, the man whose full conceptualization of Niven's  &quot;Slaver stasis field&quot; gave us The Peace War and its amazing  sequel Marooned in Realtime.  Here, no one great idea takes over to the  point where we consider it the heart of the book, and that leaves us freer  to notice that Vinge is also a master of characterization and intricate  plotting.<br />This is a long book, but it builds well.  All the threads come  together in an extended climax that's nearly a hundred pages long, and that  you'll want to read all in one sitting.	1999-07-14
US	53013446	R10TYEYJQ9N7DD	0393318680	603345732	Filth	Books	3	18	22	N	N	Couldn't stop reading though at times I wish I could have	I have never read a more disgusting book in my life and never run across a character bad on as many levels as protagonist DS Robertson.  Welsh's wild and well written hyperbole carries us through some truly vile scenes to a  finale which manages the nearly impossible:  it humanizes Robertson by  making him even more evil.<br />It is not usually idea of entertainment to  watch horrible people do horrible things.  Therefore I consider this book  not an entertainment but a very clever literary stunt.  As a stunt, it  works.	1999-06-16
US	53013446	RHWPSJDIQKCS6	0441005756	102431513	Winter Tides	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Blaylock shakes things up a bit	Other reviewers have noted that with this book Blaylock puts his trademark whimsy in the background and replaces it in the foreground with a really creepy villain.  Perhaps the book's greatest flaw is that the nastiness of  the human villain, towards the end, eclipses the eeriness of the deceased  villain -- the ghost whose pervasive presence gives the book so much of its  tense atmosphere.  Although the ghost is responsible for the chills in the  first half or three quarters of the book, by the end it seems practically  benign in comparison to the vile Edmund, and one begins to wonder whether  the book could have been written without the supernatural component and had  equal impact.<br />Still, a suspenseful and interesting read.	1999-06-07
US	53013446	RZHP8G9I4LWWE	0812555198	412077931	Earthquake Weather (Tor Fantasy)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A strong narrative	Though Powers is always interesting, he has a tendency to get so lost in his own ideas that he wanders aimlessly around in them without keeping the story moving.  Here, by spending little time explaining and lots of time  moving the complex plot forward, Powers creates an effect that sweeps one  along in the narrative.  True, it means the reader starts out completely  confused, but by letting us pick things up as we go, Powers does something  important he frequently neglects to do:  he actually goes somewhere.   That's why I'm calling this his best work since that timeless classic, The  Anubis Gates.	1999-06-06
US	53013446	R2V1AVR2DBRSQ9	1565041992	387599171	The Day I Swapped My Dad for Two Goldfish	Books	5	4	5	N	N	I'm reviewing all my old prejudices about the South...	... because the reader from Nashville a few reviews previously said so well what's best about this book.  It's a great read for kids, and it has no moral.  Whenever I, as a child, was forced to read one of those idiotic  &quot;reading is fun&quot; books written by adults for other adults to buy  for children, I questioned the value of the skill of reading.  Whenever I  read something that was genuinely fun to read, I knew why I suffered  through the idiotic things I was assigned to read in school.<br />The Day I  Swapped My Dad For 2 Goldfish is one of those fun books that makes up for  any number of stupid moralistic reading assignments, and grownups with a  sense of humor will enjoy it as much as children.  Neil Gaiman, a fine  adult fantasy writer, can be far more childlike than any childrens' writer  active today, and that is the greatest compliment I can think of to give  him.<br />Buy this book for your kids.  Read it to them aloud.  You'll have as  much fun as they will.	1999-05-25
US	53013446	R1OM455O8Z595Y	0380973464	555229230	Cryptonomicon	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Stephenson is back on form	I mostly read Neal Stephenson because of the fabulous writing style he exhibited in Snow Crash and Zodiac.  His descriptions are uncannily evocative and his informal, present tense prose carries one along like a  fascinating conversation with a really intelligent friend.  I was  disapopinted with Diamond Age because he lost quite a bit of his  irreverence with that effort, but he has made up his ground  here.<br />Everything one might love (or hate) about Stephenson is present in  Cryptonomicon, from the wild similes to the long and convoluted  digressions.  And at over 900 pages, we get a heaping helping.  When I read  a really well written book, I am often disappointed when it is over.  Here,  as with Charles Dickens's novels, I am grateful for every page.  If you are  a fan of Stephenson's, then Cryptonomicon is a big, powerful dose of  exactly what you're looking for.	1999-05-19
US	53013446	R1523RA8N2DBLH	0385486804	674569455	Into the Wild	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Alternative lifestyle taken to the extreme	An extremely well written book that makes us familiar with a very different lifestyle -- people who enjoy, and exalt themselves in, what many of us would consider unremitting pain and isolation.  Sympathetic  fellow-traveller journalist Krakauer reviews the life of Christopher  McCandless, a young man who died trying to survive alone in the Alaskan  wilderness, and through his life and death give us an understanding of the  urges to solitude and deprivation that gave McCandless such fulfillment yet  led to his death.<br />In these days when anything dangerous is viewed with  great suspicion, it is valuable to read something that shows us that risky  behavior can be, for whatever reason, immensely fulfilling to those who  knowingly choose to engage in it.  McCandless, dying and knowing he was  dying, made it as clear as he could that he wouldn't change a single major  choice he made in his doomed young life.  Krakauer does a fine job  describing both the attractions of McCandless's lifestyle and the traps  inherent in it that led to McCandless's death.	1999-05-10
US	53013446	R3O1WDFYW0SQ3P	0316570982	691198794	Blue Light	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Mosley's only bad book	Although I am mostly a science fiction fan, I've always loved Walter Mosley's books.  The farther afield he has stretched in the past from the detective stories that made him famous, the better I liked him -- his Gone  Fishin' and Always Outnumbered are even better than his mysteries.  So I  figured that Mosley and science fiction would be two great tastes that  taste great together.<br />I was wrong.  In his efforts to convince us of the  earth-shattering importance of the events of his story, he resorts to  telling us over and over again that they are important, rather than giving  us facts that would lead us to decide for ourselves that they are.  In his  efforts to convince us those affected by the Blue Light of the title are  more than human, he has his worshipful protagonist Chance tell us over and  over how trancendent they are, even though many of them seem less  functional, and far less interesting, than the ordinary humans who usually  populate Mosely works.  Also, Mosely seems intentionally to piece out the  stories of the various characters in such a way that just when we are  starting to get into them, the narrative switches to another storyline.  As  a result, the book never gains momentum.  Mosely did a better job creating  a story arc that carried us along with it in his collection of short  stories, Always Outnumbered, than he does in this novel.<br />Another thing:   I am not much of a fan of protagonists who do very little, and Chance is  one of these passive protagonists.  Even when he does have one of his rare  bouts of action or feeling, he is invariably wrong or manages to embarrass  himself somehow.  I know this is a matter of taste, but frankly, I did not  like or enjoy any major character in this book.<br />Mosely's way with  language is really the only bright spot I saw in Blue Light.  He is a true  prose stylist and deserves the praise reserved for self-indulgent peacocks  like David Guterson.  Even when, as here, he writes something I don't like,  I like the way he writes about it.	1999-04-20
US	53013446	R1LNK15SDP6W7N	0380790661	833858926	Witch Hunt: A True Story of Social Hysteria and Abused Justice	Books	3	7	8	N	N	An involving but not a journalistic read	A fairly well written and exhaustively researched book which has no pretensions of objectivity.  The author declares her views at the outset and thus allows us to filter her words through that perspective to make our  own judgments.  As one who believes the author's version of events, I found  myself wishing that she had toned back her language just a bit so she  wouldn't just be preaching to the choir.  But as a member of that choir, I  enjoyed the book.<br />I think it was important that someone write a book  about the Wenatchee hysteria, and I am glad the author took the time to do  it.  It is the kind of cautionary tale I wish every police officer and  child worker would read as part of their initial training.  Even if they  disagree with the book when they read it, at least they will be forewarned  of the possibility that a witch hunt can come about and might be able to  recognize the symptoms if one begins in their area -- or if they find  themselves succumbing to the traps the Wenatchee officials fell into when  they began their series of investigations and prosecutions.	1999-03-20
US	53013446	R2IM51SBRQK4J5	0399143939	76871705	Trick of Light	Books	2	0	0	N	Y	Not as good as The Magician's Tale by a long shot	I was so excited by the impressively original &quot;Magician's Tale&quot;  that I ordered &quot;Trick of Light&quot; in hardback, but it turned out  that Hunt's bag of tricks was exhausted in his (or her, it's a pen name)  first novel.<br />In the first book, heroine Kay Farrow was part of the  atmosphere rather than a detatched interloper.   The denizens of Kay's  first mystery gave her a &quot;street name&quot; of her own, and she seemed  like one of a group of colorful characters in the same millieu rather than  a single colorful character injected into another millieu.  Furthermore,  the enemy in Magician's Tale was more personal, sordid, and realistic.  In  this book, the bad guy is a huge conspiracy of gigantically wealthy  villains who control the law and can do all kinds of evil stuff without any  fear of exposure.  Just the kind of implausible idiocy the last book deftly  avoided.<br />Basically, Trick of Light avoids the strengths of Magician's  Tale -- atmosphere, intimacy, plausibility -- in favor of flashy martial  arts action, supposedly colorful characters we've all seen before (the  Disgruntled Viet Nam Vet, the Rich Evil Guy Who Controls the Law), and  silly conspiracy theories.<br />David Hunt's writing is still good, but in the  short time this series has been out, we've descended from the brilliance of  the first novel (which I'd recommend to anyone) to a sophomore effort  that's very much by the numbers.	1998-10-31
