US	53011885	RH6L1ST3S31DU	0808400193	612484450	Mark Twain's Quarrel with Heaven (Masterworks of Literature)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Unfinished Satire with Bonus Tracks	\\"Mark Twain's Quarrel With Heaven\\" is a short tome containing an introductory eponymous essay by Ray Broadus Browne, three pieces by Twain himself: \\"Captain Stormfield's Visit to Heaven\\", \\"The Late Reverend Sam Jones's Reception in Heaven\\", and \\"Mental Telegraphy?\\"; supplemented with an anonymous anecdote that Browne postulates Twain knew and was influenced by, \\"Old Abe's 'Slap' at Chicago\\"; and finally a short alternate passage from the first story. I'd recommend reading the Twain before reading Browne's commentary--while it does provide some interesting historical/biographical perspective, all that you really need to know is that Twain worked on \\"Captain Stormfield's Visit to Heaven\\" for about thirty years and published a portion of it toward the end of his life but considered it unfinished, and that Browne has collected all the fragments along with that published part and included the whole. It doesn't make a satisfactory story, linearly; but what one is really after is Twain's wisdom and humour, not his plotlines. And for this, Stormfield is pretty good--it's not Twain's best work, but his vision of heaven is an interesting and provocative one.<br /><br />Twain stipulates a single heaven for all deceased beings the universe over, and although Satan is mentioned, it is implied that everyone, regardless of moral fibre, ends up in heaven. The Earth section of heaven is relatively insignificant, and the Christian part of the Earth section even less significant. Twain loved to poke fun at the Euro/Amero-centric world view, and this work is no exception. Twain even points out that in the American and English parts of Heaven, the number of non-English speaking souls inhabiting it far outnumber the English speaking ones. I don't want to give away Twain's best ideas, but one in particular is worth mentioning--even after death, there is suffering, because happiness cannot be appreciated without it's opposite, it is not a thing in and of itself. For all it's narrative flaws, \\"Captain Stormfield's Visit to Heaven\\" is worth reading for the ideas, and it's a quick read. \\"The Late Reverend Sam Jones's Reception in Heaven\\" is an even shorter story, and much funnier. It's not at all an exploration of the afterlife, but instead a parody of an actual Southern evangelist of Twain's time. Without knowing anything of the individual, the type is quite familiar. Twain's wife forbade him publishing the story during his lifetime, but it's hardly the work of an inflammatory rabble-rouser. The shortest of Twain's pieces included here is a two-page musing on Mental Telegraphy, what we'd call telepathy. It's nothing special, and included only because it mentions the two other pieces in a bit of not-very-shocking coincidence.<br /><br />Browne's introduction tells us something of Twain's beliefs--he was raised by a Christian mother and an Atheistic father, and by the time he began working on Captain Stormfield he was clearly disappointed with Christianity, not only as practiced by his contemporaries, but in its very conception. But \\"Mark Twain's Quarrel With Heaven\\" as a title seems too strong for the sentiment displayed in the writing here. Certainly there is no real antipathy for Christians presented in Captain Stormfield--what is conveyed is instead a reconception of heaven, inclusive of but not limited to the Christian ideal. Christ himself is not even mentioned, either negatively or positively, except when Stormfield identifies himself as coming from the world that the Savior saved--and the response is that those worlds are many. Twain does have some fun with the paraphenalia of heaven--wings, haloes, heavenly choirs and harps--but it's by no means an attack on Christianity as the title implies. \\"The Late Reverend Sam Jones's Reception in Heaven\\" is more pointed and satiric than Captain Stormfield, and it's satire is pointed not toward Christian beliefs in general but toward a 'holier-than-thou\\" attitude held by certain individuals. Nonetheless, Browne's introduction is worth reading, but do save it until last, or Twain's witticisms and cleverness will be partially spoiled.ss, Browne's introduction is worth reading, but do save it until last, or Twain's witticisms and cleverness will be partially spoiled.	2005-04-12
US	53011885	R27SBCQ1B59CD7	B0006CKB7E	612484450	Mark Twain's quarrel with heaven;: "Captain Stormfield's visit to heaven" and other sketches, (The Masterworks of literature series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Unfinished Satire with Bonus Tracks	\\"Mark Twain's Quarrel With Heaven\\" is a short tome containing an introductory eponymous essay by Ray Broadus Browne, three pieces by Twain himself: \\"Captain Stormfield's Visit to Heaven\\", \\"The Late Reverend Sam Jones's Reception in Heaven\\", and \\"Mental Telegraphy?\\"; supplemented with an anonymous anecdote that Browne postulates Twain knew and was influenced by, \\"Old Abe's 'Slap' at Chicago\\"; and finally a short alternate passage from the first story.  I'd recommend reading the Twain before reading Browne's commentary--while it does provide some interesting historical/biographical perspective, all that you really need to know is that Twain worked on \\"Captain Stormfield's Visit to Heaven\\" for about thirty years and published a portion of it toward the end of his life but considered it unfinished, and that Browne has collected all the fragments along with that published part and included the whole.  It doesn't make a satisfactory story, linearly; but what one is really after is Twain's wisdom and humour, not his plotlines.  And for this, Stormfield is pretty good--it's not Twain's best work, but his vision of heaven is an interesting and provocative one.<br /><br />Twain stipulates a single heaven for all deceased beings the universe over, and although Satan is mentioned, it is implied that everyone, regardless of moral fibre, ends up in heaven.  The Earth section of heaven is relatively insignificant, and the Christian part of the Earth section even less significant.  Twain loved to poke fun at the Euro/Amero-centric world view, and this work is no exception.  Twain even points out that in the American and English parts of Heaven, the number of non-English speaking souls inhabiting it far outnumber the English speaking ones.  I don't want to give away Twain's best ideas, but one in particular is worth mentioning--even after death, there is suffering, because happiness cannot be appreciated without it's opposite, it is not a thing in and of itself.  For all it's narrative flaws, \\"Captain Stormfield's Visit to Heaven\\" is worth reading for the ideas, and it's a quick read.  \\"The Late Reverend Sam Jones's Reception in Heaven\\" is an even shorter story, and much funnier.  It's not at all an exploration of the afterlife, but instead a parody of an actual Southern evangelist of Twain's time.  Without knowing anything of the individual, the type is quite familiar.  Twain's wife forbade him publishing the story during his lifetime, but it's hardly the work of an inflammatory rabble-rouser.  The shortest of Twain's pieces included here is a two-page musing on Mental Telegraphy, what we'd call telepathy.  It's nothing special, and included only because it mentions the two other pieces in a bit of not-very-shocking coincidence.<br /><br />Browne's introduction tells us something of Twain's beliefs--he was raised by a Christian mother and an Atheistic father, and by the time he began working on Captain Stormfield he was clearly disappointed with Christianity, not only as practiced by his contemporaries, but in its very conception.  But \\"Mark Twain's Quarrel With Heaven\\" as a title seems too strong for the sentiment displayed in the writing here.  Certainly there is no real antipathy for Christians presented in Captain Stormfield--what is conveyed is instead a reconception of heaven, inclusive of but not limited to the Christian ideal.  Christ himself is not even mentioned, either negatively or positively, except when Stormfield identifies himself as coming from the world that the Savior saved--and the response is that those worlds are many.  Twain does have some fun with the paraphenalia of heaven--wings, haloes, heavenly choirs and harps--but it's by no means an attack on Christianity as the title implies.  \\"The Late Reverend Sam Jones's Reception in Heaven\\" is more pointed and satiric than Captain Stormfield, and it's satire is pointed not toward Christian beliefs in general but toward a 'holier-than-thou\\" attitude held by certain individuals.  Nonetheless, Browne's introduction is worth reading, but do save it until last, or Twain's witticisms and cleverness will be partially spoiled.ndividuals.  Nonetheless, Browne's introduction is worth reading, but do save it until last, or Twain's witticisms and cleverness will be partially spoiled.	2005-04-12
US	53011885	R1ORJU8UW471W5	0316143464	555987354	Dress Your Family in Corduroy and Denim	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Brilliant; Hilarious, Touching, Dark, Sophisticated, Moronic	At lunch today as I was finishing this book, my eyes were streaming tears of laughter, my body was shaking, and I had to cover my mouth to keep from whooping out loud.  I wasn't entirely successful, and I was a little embarrassed when I literally had to put the book down I was laughing so much, to notice that my fellow diners in the Hong Kong McDonalds were getting almost as much amusement out of me as I got out of Sedaris's tales.  I really don't want to give anything away--suffice it to say that although all of the book isn't this outrageously funny, every story has a moment that made me smile.  Many of them had moments that made me sad, as well--Sedaris is a master of that little twist right at the end that makes you remember just how frail, how flawed, we all are.  And Sedaris is the first to admit, he and his family are more flawed than most.  He's willing to be truthful about his flaws, even when he is uncomfortably honest.  The message is that none of us are perfect, but we're all worthy of a little attention, a little respect, at the minimum.  There are definitely people who won't like this book--homophobes have already proven that with some of the reviews here, as have a few slightly less intellectually gifted people who haven't yet, after three other of Sedaris's books which are collections from other, earlier sources, realised that he doesn't present much if any new material in these books.  But if you haven't read The New Yorker scrupulously, and you acknowledge that adults ought to have the right to love other consenting adults, you'll truly enjoy Dress Your Family in Corduroy and Denim.	2005-03-06
US	53011885	R16WGK2AI0DZC6	1559705728	922755710	The Hinge Factor: How Chance and Stupidity Have Changed History	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Popularised history	I've got to agree with reviewer Brent Wigen that The Hinge Factor is entertaining, interesting, but rather light.  I much prefer Barbara Tuchman's The March of Folly, which Durschmied must surely have known, using some of the same examples.  Durschmied's work is a much quicker read, with more situations covered in less detail than Tuchman's.  Durschmied is not a master of prose; he's readable, but somewhat awkward.  Durschmied tries balance a statistical approach--so many men per side, so many tanks or calvalry, etc.--with an attempt to bring his reader to the immediacy of the situation, by reporting bits of first hand accounts of the battles. The result is sometimes too fragmentary to read well, and I felt bogged down with unnecessary details and some outright oddities...why describe the speed of one ship in miles per hour, then in the next sentence compare it with another ship's speed in kilometers per hour?  I honestly had trouble following his description of the Gulf War, and I was alive and adult during it--I can't say that I agree with his conclusions about it, especially given the current situation in Iraq.  Another annoyance concerns language--sometimes quotations are given in their original language, sometimes not...sometimes translations are given, sometimes not...I know, Americans are coddled and should be multilingual, but really, how many people in the world know Askati?  But most problematic is the outright simplification in order to make Durschmied's point that a single factor changed the course of events. To his credit, at the end of chapters he sometimes contradicts that simplification that he seemed to be making, in \\"What If\\" and \\"The Facts\\" summaries...but then that in itself seems most strange. So...<br /><br />What If<br /><br />Erik Durschmied had had a better editor, or been a native English speaker?<br /><br />The Facts<br /><br />The book would have read more smoothly, and conveyed more information; perhaps it would have garnered more stars at Amazon and more sales.  But as it is, it's still worth reading for casual history buffs.  Serious history researchers will be disappointed.  See Tuchman's The Zimmerman Telegram for a very in depth study of a real hinge factor.zon and more sales.  But as it is, it's still worth reading for casual history buffs.  Serious history researchers will be disappointed.  See Tuchman's The Zimmerman Telegram for a very in depth study of a real hinge factor.	2005-01-12
US	53011885	R3U9EBN0C40TQ7	0812519965	61087477	Heads	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Something Different from Greg Bear	I've become quite a Greg Bear fan lately--for Christmas I got both The Forge Of God and Anvil of Stars, and I'd finished both of them by Jan. 5.  Delighted with them, I picked up Heads at a local bookstore, although I admit having some doubts about the book after looking at the blurb.  It seemed an awful lot to juggle in such a small space--410 cryogenically stored disembodied heads, along with Moon colony politics and an attempt to reach absolute zero which might change the nature of matter and of time itself, all within about 150 pages.  At the same time, I've ocasionally thought Bear was a bit too drawn-out, so I decided I'd give it a try.<br /><br />Curiously enough, spacetime was  indeed apparently affected by Heads, because I must have seen the future--I was right, and it was all a bit much to handle in such a short book.  By necessity, Bear's writing was much more expository than usual, and I didn't find that very satisfying.  The story was promisingly offbeat, but behind the story was a blatant parody of Scientology--now, I'm not a Scientologist, nor do I know any Scientologists and I have a healthy skepticism of any religion founded by a science fiction writer, especially one that espouses Body Thetans--ghosts of an alien civilization--as the source of physical illness.  It's a valid target, but somehow I'd like a touch more subtlety, a soupcon of sophistication about it...perhaps that's a bit much to ask of a book titled after decapitated noggins...<br /><br />At any rate, it's a good story, with an effective and creepy climax...it's merely the baldness of Heads that detracts.	2005-01-08
US	53011885	RNI2K7VCANBR9	6307002239	238005933	American Brass Quintet	Books	5	1	1	N	N	excellent but short	This CD is a rerelease of a Crystal Records LP from 1984.  As such, it's a bit short, at only 47 minutes.  But the American Brass Quintet is in fine form here; the performers at that time were  Raymond Mase and Chris Gekker, trumpets, David Wakefield, horn, Ronald Borror, tenor trombone, and Robert Biddlecome, bass trombone--the use of a bass trombone instead of a tuba is a hallmark of the ABQ and one which they maintain to this day, although the personnel have changed completely.<br /><br />The CD contains:<br /><br />Antonio Bertali: Two Sonatas--two tiny Renaissance pieces reminiscent of Gabrieli's brass music, except in miniature, exquisitely played.<br /><br />J. S. Bach: Contrapuntus VII from the Art of Fugue--a tasteful arrangement and performance of this masterpiece of counterpoint.<br /><br />Victor Ewald; Quintet No. 3 in Db Major--Ewald is the principal source of Romantic music originally composed for brass quintet.  Although this quartet isn't as often performed as the first, it's a gem and the ABQ does a lovely job with all of its four movements.  The major piece on the CD.<br /><br />William Lovelock: Suite for Brass Instruments--written as a commission from the ABQ in 1968, this piece is a real delight.  In four movements (Fanfare, Mediation, Toccata, Finale) the piece, although a 20th Century work, is completely accessible due to its rhythmic drive and clarity of texture, even if it is not always recognizably tonal.  The Fanfare and Toccata movements are thrillingly propulsive but not overwhelmingly aggressive.  The Meditation is less compelling, and the Finale rather straightforward and more traditionally melodic and tonal than the rest.<br /><br />Gilbert Amy: Relais--the only uncompromisingly modernist piece on the disc, this piece explores the multiplicity of tone colors and special effects the brass are capable of; at almost 14 minutes long it's probably a bit much for many listeners, but I enjoyed it.	2004-10-19
US	53011885	R24OZPBX8GJA7B	0374178674	861160614	Jay's Journal of Anomalies : Conjurers, Cheats, Hustlers, Hoaxsters, Pranksters, Jokesters, Imposters, Pretenders, Side-Show Showmen, Armless Calligraphers, Mechanical Marvels, Popular Entertainments	Books	4	10	10	N	N	'An Anomaly of Anomalies'	What wasn't quite clear to me when I got this book is that it is exactly what it says it is: a compellation of a quarterly 'newsletter' or journal written by magician Ricky Jay over a period of six years.  The newsletter combines Jay's interest in entertainers of the outrageous kind with high quality publication; as he says,&quot;a magazine printed letterpress on mold-made paper, with tipped-in color plates to present the illustrations I cherished with dignity and clarity.&quot;  Although I have not seen either the original newsletters or the paperback version of the book, I can testify that the hardback retains these fine qualities.<br />As one might expect given the nature of the project, the quality of individual chapters evolves with time.  Each chapter of the book is one volume of the newletter, preserved with the original masthead; the first few chapters show Jay warming to his subject.  Chapter one, on trained dogs, is only 6 pages long; Chapter two, on Edward Bright and other early &quot;Fattest Man/Woman/Child&quot; is eight pages.  Honestly, these opening chapters did not particularly interest me.  But then the topics became more interesting to me and Jay seemed to 'hit his stride'--the final chapter, on the Amazing Chess Automaton, is twice the length of the first.  Nonetheless, I still found the book a bit uneven--the chapter on bowling begins superbly, with a short description of Matthew Buchinger, born in 1674 who became a bowling wizard in spite of having neither arms nor legs.  But after a single paragraph and picture, this singular character is not mentioned again.  Instead, Jay concentrates the remaining pages on a general discussion of cheating at bowling--substitute &quot;pool&quot; for 'bowling' and the situation is pretty much unchanged today; and the association of bowling with amorality in the Victorian mind.  Moderately interesting, but give me a ceiling walker, chess automaton, or Bonassus any day.  It would be churlish of me to make more of this--it is, after all, Jay's Journal of Anomalies, not Coleman's Journal.<br />Among the more fascinating chapters are those on fasters, where Jay brings in the modern example of the Breatharians, who supposedly live on air alone; the Aztec Lilliputians; and a quirky chapter on &quot;nose amputations&quot;.  The common but unspoken thread among all the chapters is that odd but universal human quality--an eagerness to be deceived.  The Amazing Chess Automaton, a device which has been treated at great lengths elsewhere, is a real testament to this quality; having been purchased by not one, but two members of royalty!<br />Each chapter is thoroughly footnoted, so that the book stands not only as an entertaining collection of quirks, but also as a scholarly source of information.  One of the highlights is the Afterward, in which Jay publishes, presumably for the first time, additional material and pictures supplied by his readers in response to the original newsletter.  All in all, Jay has succeeded admirably in creating (in his own words) 'an anomaly of anomalies.&quot;f this--it is, after all, Jay's Journal of Anomalies, not Coleman's Journal.<br />Among the more fascinating chapters are those on fasters, where Jay brings in the modern example of the Breatharians, who supposedly live on air alone; the Aztec Lilliputians; and a quirky chapter on &quot;nose amputations&quot;.  The common but unspoken thread among all the chapters is that odd but universal human quality--an eagerness to be deceived.  The Amazing Chess Automaton, a device which has been treated at great lengths elsewhere, is a real testament to this quality; having been purchased by not one, but two members of royalty!  <br />Each chapter is thoroughly footnoted, so that the book stands not only as an entertaining collection of quirks, but also as a scholarly source of information.  One of the highlights is the Afterward, in which Jay publishes, presumably for the first time, additional material and pictures supplied by his readers in response to the original newsletter.   All in all, Jay has succeeded admirably in creating (in his own words) 'an anomaly of anomalies.&quot;	2004-05-27
US	53011885	RZ9GF2DEOI39W	0743449193	855907642	Heaven's Prisoners (Dave Robicheaux Mysteries (Paperback))	Books	5	48	50	N	N	Worth Reading Twice	I've read most of Burke's Dave Robicheaux series, and enjoyed them quite a bit.  Heaven's Prisoners is one of the two best, the other being In the Electric Mist with Confederate Dead.  Mist is Burke at his most exotic--Dave's on an acid trip for a substantial part of the book; Heaven's Prisoners is Burke at his darkest.  I'm unwilling to go into the plot; in fact I strongly urge you not to read further reviews as there are substantial spoilers in many of them that will ruin the experience for you.  Suffice it to say there's plenty of action, plenty of suspense.  Of course, most any thriller or action novel today promises that; where Burke is unusual is in his ability to handle language.  He writes like he's in love with language, and it's a pleasure to read him.  Mickey Spillane once said about himself that he didn't write novels, he wrote books; Burke definitely writes novels, and extremely literate ones at that.  He's one of a generation of novelists, along with Michael Connelly, James Hall, and Dennis Lehane, who have inherited  the mantle of Raymond Chandler and wear it with pride; in Burke's case, he seems also to draw inspiration from William Faulkner.  Robicheaux's a complex man, tortured by his own inadequacies and yet immensely strong simultaneously, and he's a prisoner of the dark, decaying Southern environment he was raised in.  If you prefer simple action, plots, and characters like Mike Hammer or Robert Parker's Spenser, you'll surely think Burke is overwritten.  But for a real literate treat, with an electric story, fantastic dialogue and descriptions, and characters you'll want to revisit, read Heaven's Prisoners.  I almost never reread a fiction book, except by accident--there's just too much new stuff out there; but I deliberately read this one again, and enjoyed it just as much the second time.	2004-04-27
US	53011885	R3B192PE5ENOO2	0684857359	177040953	In the Wake of the Plague: The Black Death and the World It Made	Books	2	12	12	N	Y	Avoid this like the Plague	Cantor strikes a populist direction with this book. He affects a breezy writing style (one can easily imagine much of his writing as a spoken, off-the-cuff lecture punctuated by more-or-less amusing asides, some of which totally derail his train of thought), the book is short (only 220 pages of text) and there is not a single footnote. The obvious comparison in terms of subject matter is to Barbara Tuchman's A Distant Mirror: The Calamitous 14th Century. Tuchman made a best seller from her remarkable approach in spite of her scholarly writing-style. Cantor's book lacks that sophistication of approach, and is further marred, as other reviewers have already noted, by too much repetition, too many asides, too much unsupported speculation, too many inconsistencies, and too many factual errors. There is some merit to the book, but its flaws far outweigh its worth.<br />Cantor at his best cites an interesting theory: that the Black Death was not a single disease, but two or more--not bubonic plague alone, but also some cattle-borne disease such as a particularly virulent form of anthrax. Supporting this theory are the Black Death's infestation of Iceland, an isolated island not known to have rats until the 17th Century, the often extremely rapid course of the disease--faster than that of bubonic plague; the lack of typical bubonic plague symptoms in many victims; the evidence that cattle were ravished by the Black Death; and the continued virulence of the plague in winter months when flea hosts would not normally live. The theory is not Cantor's own, but he has researched and supported it in seemingly convincing fashion, but he ignores the actual nature of the disease in its &quot;pneumatic&quot; form. Less adequate is Cantor's chapter &quot;Heritage of the African Rifts&quot;, which discusses the three pandemics of smallpox, gonorrhea, and plague and places their origin in &quot;the great mortality chute from East Africa. Certainly that is where the bubonic plague came from after A.D. 500.&quot; But in his bibliography Cantor cites William H. McNeill's Plagues and Peoples and says, contradicting his own earlier statement written with such certainty, &quot;McNeill thought the Mongols, their migrations and conquests, were a key to plague history; there may be something in that.&quot;<br />Also of interest, but clearly quirky, was Cantor's chapter on various speculations on the true cause of the Black Death. &quot;Serpents and Cosmic Dust&quot; covers alternative explanations for the &quot;biomedical catastrophe&quot; from the medieval to the present, focusing on two suggestions: the first, that snakes were the carriers; the second, that plague came from outer space. Cantor is kind, although not entirely enthusiastic, about these speculations: at one point he says &quot;It is just possible that medieval writers who placed the origins of the Black Death in serpents dispensing plague as they swam up rivers were on to something.&quot; Unfortunately, the only &quot;evidence&quot; he offers is that another historian on an unrelated issue once took medieval writers at their word in the face of academic thought and has since been vindicated. The argument in favor of the cosmic dust theory is basically that it was proposed by eminent astrophysicist Fred Hoyle--what is not mentioned is Hoyle's second career as a well-known science fiction writer. Hoyle's is a fascinating speculation, which only the most flimsy of circumstantial evidence can currently support.<br />Cantor mentions one fascinating fact in this chapter that needed to be explored much further: plague was not widespread in Poland and Bohemia. This has been explained &quot;by the rats' avoidance of these areas due to the unavailability of food the rodents found palatable.&quot; This seems unlikely --elsewhere Cantor points out the relative agricultural wealth of Poland and the Ukraine. Could Polish grain really be considerably different than Western European grain--and what of the anthrax theory, which would have the disease unaffected by the rodent's diet?<br />Socio-cultural differences between Poland and Bohemia and the rest of Europe would make an ideal testing ground for those theories concerning the effect the Black Death had on society, the arts, and religion. But rather than do any original research comparing plague-ridden and plague-free areas, Cantor merely launches into various criticisms of his colleagues' work in his final chapter, &quot;Aftermath&quot;. Cantor examines these theories and subjects them to a much less forgiving critique than the far wilder speculations mentioned previously. Some of these attacks are odd indeed, such as critiquing a book published in 1919! This is the most poorly written and argued part of the entire book, and honestly I cannot tell to what conclusion Cantor comes-whether the Black Death did or did not have any profound effect beyond killing off certain talented individuals.<br />Finally, the outright errors. Rather than repeat those caught by other reviewers, I'll discuss the extraordinary apparent claim of time-travel. Cantor recounts the story of the le Strange/Talbot family. Richard Talbot inherited the la Strange estate from the dowager Mary upon her &quot;dying in 1396.&quot; (Whether this was a plague-related death Cantor apparently deems unimportant.) Later in the chapter we are told &quot;Richard Talbot, newly enriched by the le Strange fortune, got his father out of debtor's prison and the old soldier died of the plague in 1387 in Spain...&quot; How could Richard have paid his father's debts with money he wouldn't receive for nine more years? I cannot account for the chronology of events without either contemplating a typographical error, a rift in the space-time continuum, or a mis-informed or deeply confused author. Hopefully it is the former, and Mary died ten years earlier than Cantor reports; but I am left with the discomforting concern that the dates are correct and Cantor simply speculated on Talbot's source of funds. Unfortunately this is not an isolated error.<br />While Cantor's book is more up-to-date than Barbara Tuchman's is, I can't recommend it, even as a supplement. It is too deeply flawed on too many levels. I'm left to wonder if some horrible computer virus didn't work its way through the manuscript, decimating the writing and killing at least 40% of the ultimate value of the book. As Cantor says, &quot;It is just possible.&quot;nthrax theory, which would have the disease unaffected by the rodent's diet?<br />Socio-cultural differences between Poland and Bohemia and the rest of Europe would make an ideal testing ground for those theories concerning the effect the Black Death had on society, the arts, and religion. But rather than do any original research comparing plague-ridden and plague-free areas, Cantor merely launches into various criticisms of his colleagues' work in his final chapter, &quot;Aftermath&quot;. Cantor examines these theories and subjects them to a much less forgiving critique than the far wilder speculations mentioned previously. Some of these attacks are odd indeed, such as critiquing a book published in 1919! This is the most poorly written and argued part of the entire book, and honestly I cannot tell to what conclusion Cantor comes-whether the Black Death did or did not have any profound effect beyond killing off certain talented individuals.<br />Finally, the outright errors. Rather than repeat those caught by other reviewers, I'll discuss the extraordinary apparent claim of time-travel. Cantor recounts the story of the le Strange/Talbot family. Richard Talbot inherited the la Strange estate from the dowager Mary upon her &quot;dying in 1396.&quot; (Whether this was a plague-related death Cantor apparently deems unimportant.) Later in the chapter we are told &quot;Richard Talbot, newly enriched by the le Strange fortune, got his father out of debtor's prison and the old soldier died of the plague in 1387 in Spain...&quot; How could Richard have paid his father's debts with money he wouldn't receive for nine more years? I cannot account for the chronology of events without either contemplating a typographical error, a rift in the space-time continuum, or a mis-informed or deeply confused author. Hopefully it is the former, and Mary died ten years earlier than Cantor reports; but I am left with the discomforting concern that the dates are correct and Cantor simply speculated on Talbot's source of funds. Unfortunately this is not an isolated error.<br />While Cantor's book is more up-to-date than Barbara Tuchman's is, I can't recommend it, even as a supplement. It is too deeply flawed on too many levels. I'm left to wonder if some horrible computer virus didn't work its way through the manuscript, decimating the writing and killing at least 40% of the ultimate value of the book. As Cantor says, &quot;It is just possible.&quot;	2004-04-17
US	53011885	R1KOMX9T1X4HU8	0525946780	604656398	The Museum of Hoaxes	Books	3	17	17	N	Y	Cursory Curiosities	I have to admit to being simultaneously disappointed and entertained by Alex Boese's The Museum of Hoaxes.  While Boese certainly has researched many pranks, stunts and deceptions and writes in a breezy style, I kept wishing for more information about the hoaxes he reports (not more hoaxes, of which there are plenty).  Had I come across this book in a brick-and-mortar store, I probably would not have bought it; and I have to admit that the Amazon reviewer does comment about the lack of detail.  For example, the section on The Great Chess Automaton is only two rather small pages long, with no pictures.  Look on James Randi's (the Amazing Randi) website for the James Randi Educational Fountation, dedicated to debunking hoaxes, physics, and the like, and you'll find two commentaries dedicated to the same topic, with several drawings which make the hoax perfectly clear.  Randi's account is much more engaging, as its detail brings the story to life.  Boese discusses the Loch Ness Monster and the \\"surgeon's photo\\"--but doesn't include the photo itself.  The book makes good light reading,  and perhaps it's greatest good is as a testiment to the fact that the media is less in the news and education business than in the entertainment business, a case which Randi also makes repeatedly.  You'll probably encounter a few stories you've heard before and not realised were hoaxes or outright frauds, such as the sightings of sea monsters by the passenger ship Mauretania--a report first published in the New York Times and repeated ad infinitum in books on Cryptozoology and Fortean Phenomena, but which has entirely no basis in fact.  You'll surely discover things of which you've not heard--my favorite is \\"The Great Monkey Hoax\\" hailing from my home state of Georgia, wherein a dead Capuchin monkey was doused in depiliatory cream and left in the road by two boys who claimed they'd struck it while two other \\"aliens\\" escaped in a glowing UFO.  Boese has a gullibilty test in his book, which I, a confirmed skeptic, didn't do well on.  And a number of famous or otherwise interesting hoaxes didn't make it into his book--including Mother Shipton, the psychic more accurate than Nostradamus but who unfortunately didn't exist, or the mermaid story which took place here in Hong Kong less than 10 years ago--a report was widely circulated in the media that a fisherman had caught a mermaid and his boat was bringing her into port.  People flocked to the docks, but the boat was delayed and wouldn't be in until the next day.  Still people came, but of course, no mermaid ever showed up--I don't remember what the excuse was--I think perhaps he freed the mermaid because she'd threatened him with a curse.  Or the monkey man that was running around rooftops in India, supposedly assulting people, also within the last decade.  Boese maintains a website where at least some of these hoaxes are written up; but like the book that site lacks detail and seems somewhat flat.ch I, a confirmed skeptic, didn't do well on.   And a number of famous or otherwise interesting hoaxes didn't make it into his book--including Mother Shipton, the psychic more accurate than Nostradamus but who unfortunately didn't exist, or the mermaid story which took place here in Hong Kong less than 10 years ago--a report was widely circulated in the media that a fisherman had caught a mermaid and his boat was bringing her into port.  People flocked to the docks, but the boat was delayed and wouldn't be in until the next day.  Still people came, but of course, no mermaid ever showed up--I don't remember what the excuse was--I think perhaps he freed the mermaid because she'd threatened him with a curse.  Or the monkey man that was running around rooftops in India, supposedly assulting people, also within the last decade.  Boese maintains a website where at least some of these hoaxes are written up; but like the book that site lacks detail and seems somewhat flat.	2004-04-15
US	53011885	R3TMW2ZIU6M596	0345300548	234589084	World of Ptavvs	Books	3	1	2	N	N	And whatever became of the dolphins?	I first read World of Ptavvs when I was about 16, and remembered nothing of it other than the title when I came across a copy last week. That surprised me a bit since I'd felt fairly strongly about most of Larry Niven's other works--loved Ringworld, hated Footfall.  So I grabbed it up and since it's really just a novella, thought I'd finish it rather quickly.  World of Ptavvs didn't hold my interest, though, and so I put it aside in favor of other more substantial books and took more than a week to complete it.  If this were not the first of Niven's Known Space books, honestly there would be no particular reason to spend time with it.  Other reviewers will cover the plot--suffice it to say that this is a real sci-fi gadget-driven-&quot;technology and its consequences&quot; story with cardboard characters--I couldn't even say, afterward, who I thought the main protagonist was.  Characters have never been Niven's strong suit, ideas have, and in Ringworld that was no bad thing.  But World of Ptavvs lacks the alien environment of Ringworld to a great extent, and so Niven's explorations are less compelling.  There were moments of interest, and the idea of a superwar that destroys almost all sentient life in the universe is horrifying, but the method Niven postulates given his own premises is so obviously flawed that it took me a mere 20 seconds to think, &quot;Wait, that doesn't make sense, couldn't they...?&quot;  One plot point, the exploration of space by dolphins (!) was completely dropped and seemed almost entirely irrelevant to the story.  Completist fans of Known Space will surely want to read World of Ptavvs.  Other sci-fi fans might prefer The Apocalypse Troll by David Weber, a work indebted to Niven but in some respects better written; or the Peter F. Hamilton Night's Dawn series.	2004-03-20
US	53011885	RWBY8NSFQNFC6	000648302X	350910974	Before & After	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Silly Social Satire	Matthew Thomas is writing in the British comedy tradition of Douglas Adams, Terry Pratchett, Robert Rankin and even Monty Python.  It's comedy that works on various levels, with some sophisticated social commentary but also lots and lots of pure silliness.  For example, Thomas postulates the Second Law of Thermotheology: '...the Multiverse is awash with faithons, the smallest measurable particle of belief.  When enough sentient beings concentrate these sub-belief particles into one particular form the new god appears in a flash of fidelity and in full accordance with the Laws of Conservation of Conviction.'  And like the aforenamed commedians, Thomas's wit is particularly aimed at the right--I certainly don't mind that, being a liberal myself, but I suppose there are readers out there who simply won't find their opinions being mocked very funny.  Thomas is very English, too, so in order to get all of the references it helps to be an Anglophile--I missed more than a few.<br />I enjoyed Before and After, but I have to admit that I was also put in mind of a Saturday Night Live skit that goes on too long for the material.  Clearly I'm in the minority of reviewers here, but at about page 200 I started to wish he'd just get on with it, and by about page 300 reading had really become a chore.  The book went on for another 125 pages and I gamely stayed with it for the resolution of the plot, but the humor had pretty much played itself out by that time.  Odd that, for me, the battle of Armageddon was an anticlimax.  I hope that Thomas adopts the old show biz addage from now on: Always leave 'em wanting more.  Myself, I wanted less...	2004-03-11
US	53011885	R24G3W97MJZP9C	0804115435	668170725	Pursuit	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Truth in Advertising	I've been a fan of Thomas Perry's since his first published novels, Metzger's Dogs and The Butcher's Boy (both of which I strongly recommend).  He seemed to have disappeared for a bit, then returned with the Jane Whitefield series, which, although enjoyable, didn't have the same edge for me as the earlier works.  But after a few of those, Perry turned back to stand-alone novels, and Pursuit is one of those.  It's a decent entry into a real standby of crime fiction, the duel between two equally strong adversaries in which &quot;the hunter becomes the hunted&quot;.  Perry's weakness here lies in the very nature of the genre itself--the outcome must be predictable or the story will be unsatisfying or incomplete.  The story moves forward with the inevitability of a Greek tragedy.  But his strength, here and in the Whitefield series, is the rich detail of the hunt, of pursuit and escape.  The situations his characters find themselves in, their actions and reactions, are engrossing, and the characters themselves, especially the villian James Varney, are fascinating.  And Perry's pacing is excellent, too.  The novel contains a number of stories from the characters's pasts, and just when I was at the point of thinking, &quot;The book's almost over and I still don't know much about what really motivates the hero,&quot; that issue was immediately addressed.  &quot;Pursuit&quot; is exactly what it says it is, and well worth a read.	2004-03-01
US	53011885	R365KWO7PYBJRQ	0743405900	344809762	True Justice	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Better Than Your Typical Grisham	This is the first Tanenbaum novel I've read, and except for the blurb on the back I would not have realised it was one of a series.  That I never had the sense I was getting 12 volumes of backstory nor did I need it speaks highly for Tanenbaum's writing skills; whether his long time followers are as blissfully unaware I'm not at all sure.<br />As to the story itself, Tanenbaum has taken a somewhat unconventional approach.  Rather than lots of gunplay, powerful courtroom drama, or devious legal manueverings, we are given decent people struggling with what the role of the law is, and what it should be.  The story is largely dialogue and character driven, with little action and only a minor mystery that appears quite late in the book.  Mostly Tanenbaum waxes philosophical--an approach that will drive some readers mad, but I thought it was quite fresh and more like real life than any Grisham potboiler.  I'm not sure I'd like an entire series with this approach--nor do I know that the author takes it in the other books of the series--but on its own merits, True Justice is definitely worth a read.	2004-02-28
US	53011885	R1WANY3QRL6AH6	0061031321	461879486	Thief of Time (Discworld)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Terrific!	I've read perhaps 5 of the Discworld series, and have really enjoyed a couple of them and thought the others were entertaining but not entirely captivating.  I picked up Thief of Time on my 19 year old son's recommendation, which was \\"Do yourself a favor, read this book and make your life better.\\"  Well, how could I not?<br />He was right.  In Thief of Time Pratchett strikes a unique balance between many different types of humor--from silly take-offs of oriental martial arts names (okidoki) to literate inside jokes (the raven named Quoth) and far beyond--with a complex and even philosophical plot.  It's truly an amazing bit of writing that admittedly might fall flat for those looking for lighter entertainment, but I was delighted.  I think it best not to go into plot details--you'll enjoy the book much more if you discover them for yourself--but there are plot twists aplenty, all of which make \\"sense\\".  Especially nice are the scenes dealing with the revelation of the identity of the Fifth Horseman of the Apocalypse, and the Zen Buddhist humor.<br />So do yourself a favor, read this book and make your life better.	2004-02-26
US	53011885	R1XVJY5ZBYIX1T	0385602561	958338984	The Fandom of the Operator	Books	3	2	6	N	N	Sorta funny	I read Fandom of the Operator because of ONE blurb on the back: Terry Prachett, author of the Discworld series, wrote \\"One of the rare guys who can always make me laugh.\\"  Well, that, and the fact that I picked it up cheap at a used booksale for charity.  I won't go into the plot too much--suffice it to say that the ludicrous plot is the source of most of the humor, and alien mind control and raising the dead play a big part.  It's a very silly book with more twists than an anaconda committing suicide, and nobody can rightly say they figured it out in advance.  But for me it wasn't terribly satisfying.  It's basically light entertainment, with a tiny touch of sex and a bit of disgusting stuff for fun.  Discworld's much richer textured and funnier.  I can't see it being worth the price asked here at Amazon--I think that's cause it's a UK book, and I'll bet you can get it in paperback from amazon.uk much cheaper.  If you're someone who roars at the humor of the title, you'll go for it big.  But the cover blurb, from the Daily Express, says it all for me, \\"Everybody should read at least one Robert Rankin book in their life.\\"  Well, now I have.	2004-02-14
US	53011885	R13OORR40ZTD74	0345423348	796467564	Vitals	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Stunning Sci-Fi	I suppose that I can understand some of the negativity of many of these reviews, but I certainly can't agree with it.  I thought Vitals was terrific, one of the most interesting books I'd read in years.  It has a lot of different qualities, but I was most reminded of Mel Gibson's movie Conspiracy Theory.  In both, the protagonist isn't particularly likeable--although Bear's Hal Cousins is certainly more stable (most of the time) than Gibson's character.  In both, the audience is never quite sure what is real and what isn't.  Both are action filled, frightening, horrifyingly plausible, and deliver at the end.  Vitals even delivers three times, with big, unexpected climaxes like a series of punches to the gut.<br />Now, as to the &quot;flaws&quot;: Bear is a writer who has almost always demanded a lot of his readers.  This isn't casual sci-fi, not space opera; in fact, until about two-thirds of the way through the book it's scarcely sci-fi at all.  Hal Cousins, the protagonist, is thrown into a series of bizarre events and spends much of the novel scrambling desparately to make sense of an insane situation.  In these passages, Bear reveals little, allowing the reader to share Cousins' confusion.  Perhaps the action-orientation of these parts put off some of Bear's regular readers.  After about 1/4 of the book, Bear changes point-of-view and time, and certainly I found this disorientating.  Given that at this point Bear goes back in time and deals not with Hal Cousins, but with his twin brother Rob, also a scientist in the same field, confusion is understandable.  Granted, everything is labelled, but I did have to look back when it became apparent to me that I'd glossed too much, and evidently I wasn't alone in this.  But for me it's the only real flaw in the book, and the solution's simple--read more carefully!  By the time we are back with Hal Cousins, things become extremely intense.  The story takes a sci-fi twist that those readers who are more action oriented might find hard to follow.  Bear has created a chilling but complex premise, and from there, everything else flows logically and with the inevitability of a Greek Tragedy, minus the deus ex machina.  If you're looking for light entertainment, look elsewhere.  But for a gripping, creepy and thoughtful read, you can't do better than this.  I'd also recommend Maelstrom by Peter Watts as similar in tone.might find hard to follow.  Bear has created a chilling but complex premise, and from there, everything else flows logically and with the inevitability of a Greek Tragedy, minus the deus ex machina.  If you're looking for light entertainment, look elsewhere.  But for a gripping, creepy and thoughtful read, you can't do better than this.  I'd also recommend Maelstrom by Peter Watts as similar in tone.	2004-02-08
US	53011885	R1N5M2WIQMNB5K	0768850266	932589593	Charmed 2004 Calendar	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Correction of the previous review	Just a short note to correct an error in my previous review--there are in fact three shots of each of the stars individually.  Rose McGowan (Paige) has dark hair, not red hair, in one picture.  My daughter scorned my ignorance!  But she really liked the calendar a lot, regardless of how ignorant her dad is....<br />As long as I'm finding fault, though, I wish that the calendar came with a plastic attachement to hang it with--they're quite common here in HK--so that the pictures didn't all have to have a hole in the stars' heads.<br />And to provide a little more positive input, the layout and graphic design of the calendar (not the photos) is really superior and makes up for the lack of Charmed props in the photos.	2003-12-26
US	53011885	R34D3QXGZ9RV4	0380973545	730540102	Letters from a Nut	Books	5	3	11	N	N	Open Letter to Mr. Ted Nancy	Dear Mr. Nancy,<br />My kudos to you for your recent book, Letters from a Nut. (Actually, as I understand it, you've written two more books since this one, but I haven't read them yet so your book is recent to me!) It is seldom that one finds such a good book, with almost all the words spelled correctly, and with such gripping cover art (looks like a paper bag!), especially by someone who has two first names. I noticed that your second first name, Nancy, is actually a girl's name; but in spite of that I would like to request that you consider the position of president of my new society. It's the Society for People With Two First Names (SPWTFN). As you probably know, people with this affliction have been discriminated against for years! Why, you yourself were probably called a &quot;Nancy-boy&quot; when you were a kid! I know that if I'd have known you, I'd have called you that! This is the kind of discrimination these people face. Its even worse than Siamese Twins working at Kinkos!<br />But anyway, the SPWTFN (hard to say without spitting, unfortunately!) would champion the cause of these poor people, much like you champion causes in your book. If you are fighting for the right to bring your own ice machine to a hotel, won't you give a little of your time to this cause? If you don't like the name, we can change it to APWTFN (Association for People With Two First Names), but I think SPWTFN is more poetic. Please say yes today! There would be only a little work--fundraising and hosting a national conference yearly at your house--but think of the good you could do!<br />Mr. Nancy, thank you in advance for your help and participation. And again, my complements on your book. It was really good to see how one goes about getting toenail clippings into the Baseball Hall of Fame! Inspirational!<br />Sincerely,<br />Dr. Christopher Coleman (only one first name, but I was almost Dr. Christopher Robin Coleman!)	2003-12-25
US	53011885	R1GHD0Y0WNUCRV	0671318322	518391540	The Apocalypse Troll	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Entertaining, and not quite what the blurbs have you believe	I picked up The Apocalypse Troll at a used book stall for a school fundraiser, and didn't look too carefully at it.  When I got home to peruse my purchases, I wasn't at all sure that I'd gotten something I'd normally find worth reading.  The back blurb promises that our hero \\"has his hands full of an unconcious, critically wounded and impossibly human alien warrior who also happens to be a gorgeous female\\"; the inside cover starts \\"My People are as human as you are! (said the beautiful space alien)\\"--you get the picture.  And, true, there are moments like this in the book, but it isn't primarily a sci-fi bodice ripper, thank heavens, nor done as clumsily as this.  Mostly the book is a very entertaining sci-fi/military adventure.  Although I'm no expert, the jargon seemed authentic and the story, given the standard dose of disbelief most sci-fi needs, quite credible.<br />The story is quite a bit like Star Trek: First Contact, except that Weber's version of the Borg, instead of being sluggish robots you can tiptoe around, are vicious, vigorous supercyborgs which literally wipe out or assimilate anything in their path.  They make much better villans than Picard's nemeses; so much so that they actually make it back to Earth in the past and have to be hunted down by their only surviving opponent.  It's a fun read, not particularly deep but not at all pretentious, either.	2003-12-14
US	53011885	R2SL0D4UYVT03T	0768850266	932589593	Charmed 2004 Calendar	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Nice, but not all it could be--needs more variety	My 13 year old daughter is a big Charmed fan, and I've enjoyed the show with her.  When I saw this calendar I thought she'd like it and got it for her as a surprise Christmas present--I'm hoping she doesn't see this review before the big day.  The layout is good and the photos are crisp, showing the three stars to good effect.  <br />BUT....there's not a lot of variety in the photos month-to-month.  All the pictures are shot against curtain backdrops in the photographer's studio--there's no Charmed set at all, no Charmed designs grace the backgrounds.  There are three shots of all three stars together, four shots of Alyssa Milano (Phoebe), three of Holly Marie Combs (Piper), and only two of Rose McGowan (Paige).  No Leo, none of the other supporting characters.  All the shots are basically three-quarters views--no close-ups.  In all the shots the young women have a sulty/sexy pose, but no smiles and not a single tooth to be seen--they all hide their doubtless impressive orthodonture.  And in two of the shots Ms. Combs is wearing the same red tank top.  I can't understand why there isn't one close-up, one three-quarters view, and one full view of each star with at least some of the props, like the Book of Shadows, in some of the photos.  The show is definitely more interesting than the calendar.	2003-12-08
US	53011885	RARATH92XQ5M7	0446613266	910647309	Four Blind Mice (Alex Cross #8)	Books	2	4	4	N	N	Comic Book without pictures for Grow-ups	James Patterson used to be a good writer, back in the days of Along Came a Spider.  But now if you compare his work to Michael Connolley, James Hall, Dennis Lehane and the other terrific writers publishing today, Patterson keeps coming up short.  He can't seem to tell a believable tale anymore, although his characters seem likeable or despisable enough.  He can still write a good scene, and there are some very good scenes in Four Blind Mice, but motivation seems not to interest him as a writer any longer, nor does plot.  Granted, there's such a thing as the willing suspension of disbelief that allows us to enjoy fiction from fairytales to sci-fi, but the world of Alex Cross is supposed to be present day Washington DC.  It's apparently an alternate universe, though, where the Vietnam war took place about 10 years later than in ours, and where the American criminal justice system is efficient enough to regularly execute the  convicted mere months after their trial, but incompetent enough to miss blatantly obvious connections between the murders such as dolls and evil eye amulets left in the homes of the supposed killers and the grisly habit of painting the victims, most of whom have been killed with army knives.  At one point Patterson has his characters--policemen, a psychiatrist, and a lawyer--express some doubt as to the framed person's guilt, on the basis that there was too much evidence too easily attained, but they never make much of these obvious connections.  On OUR earth I can't imagine such conversations ever happening.  I wonder if letters are written backwards over there, too, and if the Flash looks like the God Mercury.<br />So Patterson isn't a literate writer, or even a careful one any more.  But you can still enjoy his books, and in some sense they are perfect for post-literate America.  I found that although I was disappointed with Four Blind Mice in many ways, my disappointment wasn't complete if I changed my expectations.  Instead of comparing Patterson's recent work to Lehane, Hall, Connolley, or even early Patterson, if I think of it as a sort of comic book without pictures for grown-ups it seems to work.  (I don't say adults, because there's no real sexuality to it, in spite of what a few of the other reviewers claim.)  Patterson is better compared to Stan Lee, and Alex Cross isn't that far removed from Lee's creation Peter Parker, aka Spider Man, with his crime fighting and home-life problems coming into conflict; even his identity conflicts as a superhero find their reflection in Cross's character.  Stylistically there are many similiarities, too.  Comics are action-heavy with fairly flat, sometimes corny dialogue and often weak plots; so is Patterson's writing.  Characters are boldly good or bad in both, and often motivations are also black and white.  There's no mystery in a Spider Man comic, nor is there in an Alex Cross book any more.  These aren't stories about clever deduction or uncanny observation.  Instead, essentially someone tells Cross who the bad guys are.  And like comics but not real life, unfortunately, characters come back from the dead.  So although Patterson makes what seems an obvious ploy for us to compare his work to Thomas Harris--Cross's visit to Kyle Craig in a high security prison to gain information on the current killings struck me as an AMAZING reference to Harris' Hannibal Lecter (amazing in its blatant appropriation, not in its quality!)--we're better off thinking DC and Marvel.  Hey, maybe THAT'S the \\"DC\\" in Cross's home town, not District of Columbia.rson's recent work to Lehane, Hall, Connolley, or even early Patterson, if I think of it as a sort of comic book without pictures for grown-ups it seems to work.  (I don't say adults, because there's no real sexuality to it, in spite of what a few of the other reviewers claim.)  Patterson is better compared to Stan Lee, and Alex Cross isn't that far removed from Lee's creation Peter Parker, aka Spider Man, with his crime fighting and home-life problems coming into conflict; even his identity conflicts as a superhero find their reflection in Cross's character.  Stylistically there are many similiarities, too.  Comics are action-heavy with fairly flat, sometimes corny dialogue and often weak plots; so is Patterson's writing.  Characters are boldly good or bad in both, and often motivations are also black and white.  There's no mystery in a Spider Man comic, nor is there in an Alex Cross book any more.  These aren't stories about clever deduction or uncanny observation.  Instead, essentially someone tells Cross who the bad guys are.  And like comics but not real life, unfortunately, characters come back from the dead.  So although Patterson makes what seems an obvious ploy for us to compare his work to Thomas Harris--Cross's visit to Kyle Craig in a high security prison to gain information on the current killings struck me as an AMAZING reference to Harris' Hannibal Lecter (amazing in its blatant appropriation, not in its quality!)--we're better off thinking DC and Marvel.  Hey, maybe THAT'S the \\"DC\\" in Cross's home town, not District of Columbia.	2003-12-06
US	53011885	R33WKNTMEFFRTB	074343627X	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Sprawling Monstrosities	Stephen King has a proven track record as one of the world's most popular fiction writers; unfortunately he is also one of the most self-indulgent. His books are gigantic sprawling blobs, rather like the rapacious alien fungus set to devour the world in Dreamcatcher. Sometimes he can't even contain himself within even a trilogy--the Dark Tower series advanced its plot not at all in his fourth installment. In his continuing battles with the publishing world, his fans often come out the losers. It is they who ended up paying three times as much for the six installment version of The Green Mile than if King had originally released it as a traditional novel; and anyone who had faith in King and bought the internet version of The Plant simply got ripped off, as he never finished it.<br />Dreamcatcher continues along this self-indulgent path. Although there's a good story under all the fatty layers of excessive prose, it is a story King's fans have read before--sort of Stand By Me meets The Tommyknockers. King's style is full of self-reference--I counted at least four completely irrelevant references to other King books. He loves to bury the reader in detail; at its best this technique brings the characters to life, but too often simply distracts from the storyline. Although no one could truthfully say that his books are predictable, King is so fond of foreshadowing that we know well in advance what is coming. He also uses a changing point of view that allows him to move the story around from the original four characters to a situation completely unknown to them about one-third of the way through the book--a lurch I found quite awkward. I wonder how different, how much more compact and perhaps more compelling the book might have been if it had been told only from the viewpoint of the four friends, without ever introducing the one-dimensional, almost cartoonish villain Kurtz. (Given that some of those original characters die early on, it might have been quite a challenge!)<br />But King fans are all familiar with these foibles, and they seem to forgive him all. He knows how to reward his readers with little pats on the back for keeping up with him--the self-references are surely there for his die-hard fans as much as for himself, and asides like &quot;Gray&quot; and &quot;Gary&quot; being anagrams, or Kurtz as a pseudonym from Apocalypse Now and The Heart of Darkness make the astute reader feel just a little bit special.<br />In his afterward, King talks about the book as a vehicle for his pain; it seems to me that there is quite a bit of anger there too, and even contempt. The presence of these emotions, though, gives the book some strength that puts it above much of his other writing. Still, I have to hope that his pain will burn away some of the excessive gigantism; I far prefer the leaner, more intimate King of works like Misery and Thinner.<br />But King fans are all familiar with these foibles, and they seem to forgive him all. He knows how to reward his readers with little pats on the back for keeping up with him--the self-references are surely there for his die-hard fans as much as for himself, and asides like &quot;Gray&quot; and &quot;Gary&quot; being anagrams, or Kurtz as a pseudonym from Apocalypse Now and The Heart of Darkness make the astute reader feel just a little bit special.<br />In his afterward, King talks about the book as a vehicle for his pain; it seems to me that there is quite a bit of anger there too, and even contempt. The presence of these emotions, though, gives the book some strength that puts it above much of his other writing. Still, I have to hope that his pain will burn away some of the excessive gigantism; I far prefer the leaner, more intimate King of works like Misery and Thinner.	2003-11-26
US	53011885	R23CBRA0H3DAPT	1563897504	841852739	Crisis On Infinite Earths	Books	2	7	24	N	N	Great Scott, What a Critical Disappointment!	Why DC has decided to re-release Crisis on Infinite Earths 16 years after its original release is a mystery. Perhaps because they want a bite out of the wallets of gullible folks like myself. By 1985 I had &quot;grown out&quot; of comics, but I did hear about the Crisis storyline and I was intrigued--certainly not enough to follow a series through a year of comic books (I was getting a doctorate and had no inclination for such frivolity!), but enough to remember it. When I saw Crisis at the bookstore recently I thought I'd indulge in a little nostalgia and see how the universe of DC changed. In particular I was interested in how the single dimensional characters so poorly drawn in such flat colors became the more complex, better drawn and imagined characters I occasionally glimpse today. For instance, when I was young, Aquaman was a clean shaven Bruce Jenner-type in a silly orange top and green trunks, but now he's Poseidon with a flowing beard, Cap'n Hook hand and bad attitude. I imagined this transformation started, at least, with the Crisis.<br />If you've read it, you are no doubt snickering at my naivete. For, sure enough, for all the hype, very little changed forever with Crisis. Certainly it was not the stage for which DC's heroes became more complex and more visually interesting. The most significant things it contains are the death of the Flash (but he gets replaced with another Flash in the same costume) and Supergirl. Sure, other superheroes and supervillains die, but most of them are characters we hadn't seen or cared about in decades anyway. And therein lies the first of the two enormous problems with Crisis--in an attempt to incorporate literally every DC hero to date, the plot is convoluted and the characters watered down so that we simply don't care about any of their fates. Bat Lash? The Human Bomb? Why? And oddly, The Blue Beetle gets what appears to be a major role for the first several episodes, then gets dropped like a hot potato bug. Imagine a movie about the end of the universe in which every major actor in Hollywood in the last 50 years gets a cameo and only a cameo, and you'll have some sense of the scope of the problem. Writer Marv Wolfman isn't up to the challenge, but in fairness I'm not sure anyone would be.<br />The second problem is that, in spite of the affection many reviewers here obviously have for artist George Perez, he's not really that good. Look carefully at the pictures--sure, there are an awful lot of superheroes crammed into every panel, but the perspective and anatomy are often flawed. Especially where an object comes in front of another figure, often the line of the background figure does not come out where it ought. And although one reviewer recommends judging this book by its cover, I disagree. The quality of work on the cover, with its shading, is far superior to anything contained within, and not at all reflective of the book itself. Likewise, the detail of the pictures and the quality of the color I find lacking. For example, horrible shadow creatures plague the various Earths repeatedly, but they look so silly they can't be taken seriously. Perhaps I'm asking too much from a comic, but I think that Crisis set itself up to be taken seriously. And certainly the artwork and storylines of Marvel comics even 10 or more years earlier was of much higher quality. Remember the short lived New Gods, done at DC but by Jack Kirby, longtime Marvel artist? In fact, those characters return here--in particular Darkseid has an important role--and they are some of the most visually interesting in the lot.<br />In short, Crisis on Infinite Earths is only worth purchasing (and look at the price--it ain't cheap!) if you've already read the story and simply can't live without it. If you missed it first time around, do yourself a favor and avoid this Crisis altogether.movie about the end of the universe in which every major actor in Hollywood in the last 50 years gets a cameo and only a cameo, and you'll have some sense of the scope of the problem. Writer Marv Wolfman isn't up to the challenge, but in fairness I'm not sure anyone would be.<br />The second problem is that, in spite of the affection many reviewers here obviously have for artist George Perez, he's not really that good. Look carefully at the pictures--sure, there are an awful lot of superheroes crammed into every panel, but the perspective and anatomy are often flawed. Especially where an object comes in front of another figure, often the line of the background figure does not come out where it ought. And although one reviewer recommends judging this book by its cover, I disagree. The quality of work on the cover, with its shading, is far superior to anything contained within, and not at all reflective of the book itself. Likewise, the detail of the pictures and the quality of the color I find lacking. For example, horrible shadow creatures plague the various Earths repeatedly, but they look so silly they can't be taken seriously. Perhaps I'm asking too much from a comic, but I think that Crisis set itself up to be taken seriously. And certainly the artwork and storylines of Marvel comics even 10 or more years earlier was of much higher quality. Remember the short lived New Gods, done at DC but by Jack Kirby, longtime Marvel artist? In fact, those characters return here--in particular Darkseid has an important role--and they are some of the most visually interesting in the lot.<br />In short, Crisis on Infinite Earths is only worth purchasing (and look at the price--it ain't cheap!) if you've already read the story and simply can't live without it. If you missed it first time around, do yourself a favor and avoid this Crisis altogether.	2003-11-26
US	53011885	R1GQ3ZJTZXBXG9	0446606715	149103888	A Second Chance at Eden	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Terrific Sci Fi Collection	I'm so pleased that I came across this book.  Quite by accident, I've been introduced to Peter F. Hamilton's work, and if the rest of his material is this good, I guarantee I'll be reading it all.  I disagree entirely with the reviewers who claim that a reader has to know Hamilton's six volume trilogy (!) Night's Dawn to get maximum pleasure out of the stories--in the foreward Hamilton says that some of these stories predate the concept of the trilogy, and one of them (Candy Buds) even gave rise to it.  I certainly had no trouble knowing where I was, thanks to the time lines provided by Hamilton, and each of the stories seemed admirably self-contained in terms of the necessary plot points.<br />To the stories themselves--there's an excellent mix here, some mostly snapshots, others quite long and detailed.  Some deal with an individual at a time of personal crisis (Deathday, which owes much to Ray Bradbury's Mars is Heaven), others concern paradigm shifts for the entire Human civilization (A Second Chance at Eden, a truly beautifully written and plotted story).  Hamilton is at the gentler side of hard sci-fi.  While his stories all contain technology far beyond our current grasp, there's no necessity for a Ph.D. to understand it.  He's much less demanding than Greg Bear in his most substantial works.  Indeed, the technology is mostly there for the context, and the stories are primarily about human motivations rather than fun sci-fi toys.  For the most part this isn't escapest space opera at all, but a keen examination of man's condition.  And like the best literature, it's so well written that the reader is mostly unaware that this is the case--the sole exception being New Days Old Times, which is a bit more obvious in its message.  Nevertheless, I highly recommend this collection, and I look forward to the delivery of my copy of the first volume of Night's Dawn, which I ordered even before finishing this book!	2003-11-23
US	53011885	R2QB92FH7EEKYZ	0399526544	725681493	Book Finds:  How to Find, Buy, and Sell Used and Rare Books (Revised)	Books	2	26	33	N	Y	Limited value	I've inherited a whole library full of antiquarian books, and I purchased BOOK FINDS through Amazon hoping to learn what to do with them.  You'd think a book with the subtitle \\"How to Find, Buy, and Sell Used and Rare Books\\" would be helpful in that regard, but when Ellis says \\"rare\\" he means \\"first edition of modern books\\".  There is only a hint of discussion on antiquarian books, and that is primarily to say that he's not going to discuss them.  I was completely disappointed for my purposes, and had I seen the book in a brick-and-mortar shop, I would not have bought it.<br />That said, there is a fair amount of information on used and modern first edition books.  Especially good is the material on what a used bookseller is going to be looking for in the material you bring him.  As others have said, what is absent is information on bookselling over the internet and through companies like Amazon Marketplace.  In my own experience, I've done MUCH better though Amazon Marketplace than through selling to any used bookstore.  I can set my own prices, sell more merchandise (including much that a used bookstore would not take) and cut out the middleman almost entirely. (Although Amazon takes a bite, it's not nearly as big as the one taken by my local bookseller; on the minus side, going to him in person costs little in transportation and nothing in postage and handling.)  Ellis would have you believe that an annotated book cannot be sold, but at Amazon Marketplace you can fully disclose the condition of the book to the buyer and still have people interested.<br />There is valuable information in the book, especially the guide to the most collectable books.  This is important, as just because a book is a first edition doesn't mean there's a market for it.  Demand sets the price, and where there's no demand, any claimed value is artificial.  I've had a first edition that I was told was worth $100; I couldn't sell it at $15 because it was an obscure poet who no one cares much about.<br />Buyer beware, and Seller beware, too.h about.  <br />Buyer beware, and Seller beware, too.	2003-08-30
US	53011885	R1I8EZDFZUWZ8F	0525468021	152537844	Haunted House Mini-Edition	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Excellent--definitely worth the price!	Jan Pienkowski's Haunted House is a terrific book, with lots of great colorful detailed illustrations and a variety of popups, pullouts, dial turns, etc.  Except for the last, each of the five double pages has at least three \\"activities\\", and some have more.  Many of the pictures are funny, with things like a black cat in the toilet--the bathroom scene is one of my two favorites, in fact, with a fantastically silly buglike alien with peppermint lips bursting through the wall and an alligator in the tub.  Although nothing is particularly frightening for most, parents will want to exercise a bit of judgement if their children are very sensitive--there's no blood, but there is a skeleton in the closet and a ghost hovering over a bed.  If my child were prone to fears I would definitely skip this one.  But most kids will love it, and, like Sesame Street, adults will find a few details put in only for them--the bookshelf, for example, has books labelled \\"Poe\\", \\"Bosch\\" and \\"Von Dani\\" with the remaining letters of that last name off the page--recognise it?  (Hint: There's a spaceship on the same page!)<br />We were given this book for my son probably 16 years ago. My daughter also enjoyed it as a child and in fact was just studying the pop-up techniques for her high school design technology class.  Our original copy has held up well after all the years and all the loving, which speaks volumes for its construction--kudos to \\"paper engineer Tor Lokvig\\"!  Pages are thick card stock and only a few of the popup effects have suffered any of the ravages of time in our copy; but I still would recommend getting a new copy rather than buying one used, especially sight unseen.  And at the price, even a new one is definitely a bargain!	2003-06-01
US	53011885	R3ATH9UK3A6RC7	0316153915	77432495	Chasing the Dime	Books	5	83	90	N	Y	I'm astonished by the negative reviews	I wonder if those critics who panned Chasing the Dime read a different novel than I did.  Michael Connelly is a brilliant writer--one of my very favorites, right up there with James Hall and Dennis Lehane.  His books are dark, full of atmosphere and fascinating characters whose lives impact the stories they move through.  His works are not only successful thrillers, but like Lehane and Hall's works, also extremely literate.  I'm always pleased to see a series writer write stand-alone books as well, and here Connelly moves away from his Hieronymous Bosch novels to introduce a new character.<br />The criticisms that the protagonist Henry Pierce's actions are not well motivated seem absurd to me.  Pierce isn't a Pierce Brosnan/James Bond superhero--yes, he is a genius scientist, but one who moves uneasily in social circles (he's just lost his fianc&eacute; through his own ineptitude in that regard), and furthermore one who bears an enormous burden of guilt at his sister's death--in short, he's more than a bit of a nerd (admittedly a high-functioning one!).  When he tries to get in touch with a gorgeous girl on a porn site instead of the phone company, I'm not surprised at all.  He comes to believe that this beautiful woman is in trouble and consequentially tries to help her--this is supposed to be unbelievable?  I simply don't understand the criticism.  The point is exactly that Pierce reacts in a way that most of us would not--it is that which makes him who he is, the guilt and the social awkwardness, and his curiosity.  If Pierce were not the strange, driven character he is, not only would we not have a book, but Pierce would still have a fianc&eacute;, and his company would not be on the verge of a huge financial success, he would not have had to move out and get a new phone number, and none of the events of the novel would have transpired as they do.<br />I found Chasing the Dime to be a superior thriller, up to Connelly's usual high standards.  I won't discuss the plot details more, but the characterisations are well done and the storyline gripping and believable.  I've not been entirely uncritical of Connelly in the past--A Darkness More than Night didn't work for me in spite of its wonderful title.  But Chasing the Dime did, absolutely, and I look forward with great pleasure to Lost Light.tails more, but the characterisations are well done and the storyline gripping and believable.  I've not been entirely uncritical of Connelly in the past--A Darkness More than Night didn't work for me in spite of its wonderful title.  But Chasing the Dime did, absolutely, and I look forward with great pleasure to Lost Light.	2003-05-23
US	53011885	R28FXEG3DMS3RA	0140585990	210834455	Zen Poetry, The Penguin Book of	Books	5	15	15	N	N	One bath/after another/how stupid. (Isso)	This is a nice collection of Chinese and Japanese poetry in English translation--not only haiku, but all the works are haiku-esque in their brevity and style. After an excellent introduction explaining the Zen aesthetic of suggestion rather than depiction come four sections of poetry in English translation: Chinese Poems of Enlightenment and Death; Poems of the Japanese Zen Masters; Japanese Haiku; and Shikichi Takahashi, Contemporary Japanese Master. The poems are complemented by 14 black and white reproductions of Eastern paintings also demonstating the Zen influence in which detail is suggested rather than portrayed.<br />One might quibble about what is missing--apparently nothing from China after the southern Sung dynasty, or about the proportions of Japanese to Chinese work, or the inclusion of so much by a single modern master. But to do so would be to miss the point, and certainly to fail to bring a Zen sensibility to the collection as a whole. And here the introduction is invaluable--not only in explaining the selection made, but more importantly discussing the sensibility required. Certainly, for many Westerners, Zen is at best inscrutable and at worst commonplace; and they may see a haiku like Onitsura's likewise: Autumn wind--/across the fields/faces. Lucien Stryk has a very nifty comparison of this haiku with a short poem of Ezra Pound's which reveals its immediacy, and suggests an approach of thought that is absolutely necessary to the understanding of this poetry. All in all, a very worthwhile product. ...	2003-03-11
US	53011885	R1KKHFT5OKN17F	0028716108	337004693	Percussion (The Yehudi Menuhin Music Guides Ser)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	My Standard Percussion Reference	James Holland's Percussion is a terrific book, full of important and accurate information from the former principal percussionist of the BBC and London Symphony Orchestras. Holland shares his first-hand knowledge generously, and there are many references to important aspects of the percussion musical literature. It is extremely useful to percussionists, composers, and arrangers; and much of the material is written in a style accessible enough for interested non-musicians.<br />The book is divided into sections describing the various percussion instruments, (arranged as follows: an extensive section on Timpani with history and a chapter on the student timpanist, a very complete list with a few paragraphs on each of the &quot;general&quot;--non-pitched--percussion instruments, a somewhat lengthier review of keyboard percussion and mallet technique), a chapter on stands and accessories, and a final section, &quot;In Performance&quot;, dealing with the percussion section and the use of percussion in Chamber Music and as a solo instrument. A valuable appendix on &quot;Percussion Pleas&quot; is included, along with dated appendices on percussion addresses, a book list, and discography. The text is generously supplemented with photographs, line drawings, and musical examples.<br />Many such books have extensive lists of percussion instruments and photos, but Holland's work particularly shines with the richness of his professional experience. The book is full of important and interesting information, presented clearly and concisely. A wide gamut of percussion usage in considered, from marching bands to contemporary music. (Marching percussion/Drum corps is not discussed in great detail, however, and most non-western ensembles or instruments such as gamelan are absent entirely.) Especially worthwhile is the final section, in which Holland takes us through the percussion part of several contemporary pieces, offering commentary and criticism, and discussing set-up, instrument choice, performance technique, and even notation. As a composer who often writes for percussion, (I have received first prize from the Percussive Arts Society for my percussion ensemble) I use this as my standard percussion reference, and recommend it most highly.choice, performance technique, and even notation. As a composer who often writes for percussion, (I have received first prize from the Percussive Arts Society for my percussion ensemble) I use this as my standard percussion reference, and recommend it most highly.	2003-03-07
US	53011885	R2IMO170GE7L5H	0843950242	572380812	The Void	Books	2	9	14	N	N	&quot;the stringy noodles of her flesh&quot;	I can only blame my own haste--I was looking to stock up on books in the US to avoid their much higher cost here in HK, and I didn't spend the time I should have judging this one.  The first warning sign should have been the blurbs on the back--praise from people I've never heard of, and inside the cover more praise from people I've never heard of.  Not one quote from Steven King or Clive Barker, nothing from the New York Times or any newspaper at all, in fact.  Just other authors desparate, apparently, to do a favor in order to get one in return for their upcoming efforts.  But at least one quote caught my eye, &quot;The Void fills the void between literary and scary.&quot;  That seemed right up my alley, so I sprang for the thing.<br />When I got home and began to peruse it, I was immediately disappointed.  My first reaction was, &quot;I don't wanna read THIS.&quot; so I put it away.  About a week later, I thought maybe I'd judged too hastily, so I tried again.  I must admit that there is an audience for this stuff, but it certainly isn't me.  And there's NOTHING literary about this, it's just a poorly done, unimaginative slaughterfest with big words and awful metaphors.  Allow me to entertain you with one of my favorites: &quot;Slathering tongues slurped in the stringy noodles of her flesh until her body lay on the sands, fleshless and gleaming bright red, the pulp of her still screaming.&quot;  Timeless writing, I'm sure you'll agree.  If it had been an opening sentence, I'd have nominated it for the Bulwyer-Lytton Contest for worst beginning.  Sadly, it doesn't get any better.  Really, even if you just contemplate your belly-button lint, you have better things to do with your time than read this.	2003-02-22
US	53011885	R2HLEBUZ0NEXTA	0345435249	147883919	Darwin's Radio	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Demanding but Worthwhile Science Fiction	As behooves a man who has written a sequel to Isaac Asimov's Foundation Series, Greg Bear explores not just the personal but also the societal effects of his science fiction premises.  SLANT was an astonishing dissertation on the effects of nanotechnology and Bear showed Hari Seldon-esque prescience in its depiction.  In Darwin's Radio he turns from man-made to natural evolution. He takes his readers on a journey through the trauma a particular step of punctuated evolution causes, questioning whether the stresses of modern life have activated a virus to destroy us or have created a new species to replace us.<br />The story primarily follows three particular individuals: a disgraced anthropologist, an up-and-coming biologist, and a researcher for the CDC.  Through their eyes we see not only the personal effects of this evolution but also the greater societal ones as groups are pitted against other groups--Native Americans, various scientific cliques, right-wing politicians, assorted religious groups, and women's rights activists among others.  Bear's observations are often dark and seem quite likely accurate--after all, who wants to be replaced as a species?  While this topic has been treated before (A. E. Van Vogt's Slan is perhaps the most notable example, and of course the comic series X-Men), Bear takes us back to the moment of conception itself, so to speak, and uses a very believable, highly science-rich contemporary approach.<br />Many readers will undoubtedly balk at the quantity of the science and some may find themselves mired in over-explanation.  Bear does include a glossary at the end, but there is no table of contents or any other indication that it is there, and those of us leery of looking at the back so that we don't spoil the ending won't find it until it's too late.  Other readers have complained about the quality of the characterizations, and while I thought that they were mostly convincing, there were a few pages where the writing seemed somewhat awkward.  In particular, the scene where the three main characters meet for the first time was stilted and unreal--although the characters were supposed to feel ill at ease with one another, the way this was conveyed was the least effective writing in the book.  But these minor quibbles aside, Darwin's Radio is a terrific, albeit challenging read; not for those looking for light entertainment.  Taken on its own terms the reader will find it stimulating, thought provoking, and thoroughly worthwhile.what awkward.  In particular, the scene where the three main characters meet for the first time was stilted and unreal--although the characters were supposed to feel ill at ease with one another, the way this was conveyed was the least effective writing in the book.  But these minor quibbles aside, Darwin's Radio is a terrific, albeit challenging read; not for those looking for light entertainment.  Taken on its own terms the reader will find it stimulating, thought provoking, and thoroughly worthwhile.	2002-07-01
US	53011885	R2D14W90RY34ES	0486277259	174345503	Eine Alpensinfonie and Symphonia Domestica in Full Score (Dover Music Scores)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Dover scores again!	Dover scores another fantastic bargain with this coupling of two of Richard Strauss's orchestral works, Eine Alpensinfonie and Symphonia Domestica.  Why these works are paired is a mystery--Symphonia Domestica's natural companion piece is Ein Heldenleben, but Dover already published that with Till Eulenspiegels Lustige Streiche and Also Sprach Zarathustra.  The draw for this collection, though, is surely the Alpine Symphony, and that anything else at all is included is a pure bonus.  Another bonus for the language-challenged among us is the English translations for the titles of sections and the musical terms.  Dover's implementation of these translations is somewhat awkward, though, as the section titles are listed at the beginning of each piece, but the musical terms are all bunched together at the end of the volume, forcing you to flip repeatedly through it at least once.<br />These two works date from a time and place now past when a respected composer could literally write for any orchestral forces he desired.  Eine Alpensinfonie is scored for a huge orchestra (150 instruments, by one count--although not 150 different instrumental parts) and includes hecklephone, windmachine, thundermachine, tenor tubas, and 20(!) French horns--12 are offstage and play only in 21 measures of the piece, for less than one minute.  Symphonia Domestica is not quite as gargantuan (as the name indicates) but is still scored for a quite large ensemble, with oboe d'amore and 4 saxophones--soprano, alto, baritone, and the very rare bass saxophone added to the large wind section.  These scores are bibles of orchestration--Strauss is a master of handling huge forces, surpassed only by Gustav Mahler, and that arguably.  Students of orchestration can learn much about writing for large, professional orchestras from careful study of these pieces; but they are also full of important details that will be helpful for those using smaller ensembles.<br />Beyond the orchestration, however, lies deep and powerful music.  Strauss has been criticized for being overly programmatic and literal, writing trivial music and being derivative of Richard Wagner and Gustav Mahler.  But whatever truth these criticisms hold, the fact remains that Wagner, Mahler and Strauss revolutionized music.  Aside from their already well-known harmonic innovations and orchestral mastery, they freed melody from its primarily vocal conception, which had limited it from its origin.  Where most composers before them would follow a large leap with motion in the opposite direction, thereby restricting the melodic line in musical space, these three composed great soaring lines in which a large leap might well be followed by another leap or stepwise motion in the same direction.  The resulting themes often surpass the range of a single instrument; a given melody might, for example, begin in the tuba doubled with bassoon, celli and contrabasses, move to French horns and finally end in the upper registers of flutes, oboes, and violins.  Orchestration becomes not simply an assigning of instruments to particular lines, but an inseparable part of the composition of a piece.  Whatever flaws Strauss's music might have (and I have to admit that the Storm Scene in the Alpine Symphony, with its wind and thunder machines and the portrayal of raindrops in the pizzicato strings is too cliched for my taste), its glories far surpass them.<br />Reading the score can also help determine which recording of a work is particularly good.  Strauss's layers of counterpoint and his textural conceptions can suffer at the hands of an overenthusiastic brass section (this is the man who said, \\"Never look encouragingly at the trombones.\\") or an insufficiently aware conductor.  To supplement this score, I enthusiastically recommend Andre Previn's rendition of Eine Alpensinfonie with the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra, released on Telarc and also available here at Amazon.com.eep and powerful music.  Strauss has been criticized for being overly programmatic and literal, writing trivial music and being derivative of Richard Wagner and Gustav Mahler.  But whatever truth these criticisms hold, the fact remains that Wagner, Mahler and Strauss revolutionized music.  Aside from their already well-known harmonic innovations and orchestral mastery, they freed melody from its primarily vocal conception, which had limited it from its origin.  Where most composers before them would follow a large leap with motion in the opposite direction, thereby restricting the melodic line in musical space, these three composed great soaring lines in which a large leap might well be followed by another leap or stepwise motion in the same direction.  The resulting themes often surpass the range of a single instrument; a given melody might, for example, begin in the tuba doubled with bassoon, celli and contrabasses, move to French horns and finally end in the upper registers of flutes, oboes, and violins.  Orchestration becomes not simply an assigning of instruments to particular lines, but an inseparable part of the composition of a piece.  Whatever flaws Strauss's music might have (and I have to admit that the Storm Scene in the Alpine Symphony, with its wind and thunder machines and the portrayal of raindrops in the pizzicato strings is too cliched for my taste), its glories far surpass them.<br />Reading the score can also help determine which recording of a work is particularly good.  Strauss's layers of counterpoint and his textural conceptions can suffer at the hands of an overenthusiastic brass section (this is the man who said, \\"Never look encouragingly at the trombones.\\") or an insufficiently aware conductor.  To supplement this score, I enthusiastically recommend Andre Previn's rendition of Eine Alpensinfonie with the Vienna Philharmonic Orchestra, released on Telarc and also available here at Amazon.com.	2002-06-19
US	53011885	R3GJTL3L8BYEZY	0312203845	466884412	Blackwater Sound: A Novel	Books	3	3	4	N	N	What happened?	I'm a huge fan of James Hall's work and have read everything he's published to date except his poetry, and I've only missed that because I can't find it. For me, his strength lies in the balance of characterizations, plot, and description--at his best his prose is truly poetic. Only a few living authors in his genre are his equal; among them I would count Michael Connelly, Dennis Lehane, and James Burke. That these three, along with Robert Crais (another author whose works I greatly enjoy) wrote complementary reviews for the blurb of Blackwater Sound really whetted my appetite for Hall's latest, and I began it with real anticipation.<br />One of the Hallmarks (pun fully intended) of Hall's writing is a plot in which big issues are at stake--it's not just a case of solving or preventing a murder; ecological catastrophe, grisly human experimentation or the ownership of Miami are up for grabs. Blackwater Sound is no exception, and this novel concerns an experimental weapon capable of destroying electrical systems at a distance--devastating for airplanes, banks, and in fact most of modern life. Hall's antihero Thorn comes to the rescue--in spite of the fact that in his last appearance (Red Sky at Night) he was suffering from drug-induced paralysis and a gunshot from which we were told he might not fully recover. This crisis, which was so devastating and profound for Thorn, is not even mentioned in passing in Blackwater Sound. Frankly I think we've seen enough of Thorn for a while--although I like him, he's losing his credibility unless he really is a bad-luck magnet; as one of the characters says: \\"the baddest luck I've ever known.\\"<br />But the book starts beautifully. Here are the first two sentences: \\"The marlin was the color of the ocean at twenty fathoms, an iridescent blue, with eerie light smoldering within its silky flesh as if its electrons had become unstable by the cold friction of the sea. A ghostly phosphorescence, a gleaming flash, its large eye unblinking as it slipped into a seam in the current, then rose toward the luminous surface where a school of tuna was pecking at the tiny larvae and crustaceans snagged on a weed line.\\" To me, there's a sense of joy in the language that Hall conveys, and I'm captivated by writing like this.<br />Inexplicably, though, somewhere along the way the book becomes just another thriller. As other reviewers have mentioned, there is an explosion which is not explained and very subtly set-up {actually the paperback differs from the hardback in that a few lines are added concerning it}, and which propels events in a direction they might not otherwise have taken. Thorn and the female protagonist, Alexandra, fall deeply and suddenly in love most unconvincingly since they have been deeply antagonistic towards one another. One of the minor characters who Thorn enlisted in his aid is killed and there is no fallout whatsoever--Thorn apparently never gives him another thought. And finally, the villain who had acted so coolly throughout the rest of the book comes back for revenge on Thorn with apparently no more of a plan to kill him than to outdraw him. Compare this writing from the end to those gorgeous opening sentences: \\"He pulled her up in his arms and held her for a moment, both of them watching as Lawton hauled the grouper up from the shallows. The old man bent down and scooped up the fish and turned around, holding up his silver prize with both hands.\\"  I do understand that writers may handle words differently at the beginnings of books than they do at the end, but where has the poetry gone, where is the evocative description? The ending seems flat to me; serviceable, but nothing special.  Writing literary thrillers is certainly a special challenge and I'm grateful that Hall accepts it; but I hope for a return to his old magic in his next work.g as it slipped into a seam in the current, then rose toward the luminous surface where a school of tuna was pecking at the tiny larvae and crustaceans snagged on a weed line.\\" To me, there's a sense of joy in the language that Hall conveys, and I'm captivated by writing like this. <br />Inexplicably, though, somewhere along the way the book becomes just another thriller. As other reviewers have mentioned, there is an explosion which is not explained and very subtly set-up {actually the paperback differs from the hardback in that a few lines are added concerning it}, and which propels events in a direction they might not otherwise have taken. Thorn and the female protagonist, Alexandra, fall deeply and suddenly in love most unconvincingly since they have been deeply antagonistic towards one another. One of the minor characters who Thorn enlisted in his aid is killed and there is no fallout whatsoever--Thorn apparently never gives him another thought. And finally, the villain who had acted so coolly throughout the rest of the book comes back for revenge on Thorn with apparently no more of a plan to kill him than to outdraw him. Compare this writing from the end to those gorgeous opening sentences: \\"He pulled her up in his arms and held her for a moment, both of them watching as Lawton hauled the grouper up from the shallows. The old man bent down and scooped up the fish and turned around, holding up his silver prize with both hands.\\"  I do understand that writers may handle words differently at the beginnings of books than they do at the end, but where has the poetry gone, where is the evocative description? The ending seems flat to me; serviceable, but nothing special.  Writing literary thrillers is certainly a special challenge and I'm grateful that Hall accepts it; but I hope for a return to his old magic in his next work.	2002-06-18
US	53011885	R2SJ9XE5F465EJ	0486245322	893492772	The Well-Tempered Clavier: Books I and II, Complete (Dover Music for Piano)	Books	5	76	76	N	N	Fantastic bargain	Another incredible bargain from Dover. Although I think their edition of the Beethoven complete string quartets (in a single volume!) is probably the best buy in all of music, this edition of The Well Tempered Clavier is a strong competitor. (If only it had included The Art of Fugue!) This is the edition I recommend for my students because of the clarity, absence of artificial or misleading editorial markings, ease of page turns, and cost. It is not perfect; what edition EVER is--in this case, one of my quibbles is that of all the minor key fugues, only ONE (g# minor) ends without a piccardy (raised) third--it simply must be an oversight, and interestingly the accidental already present in the key signature is repeated unnecessarily. Surely B natural should have been B sharp in the final measure. Regardless of the slight problems, this is the single best tool to learn Baroque counterpoint in general and fugue specifically. No textbook I know of is capable of demonstrating the fluidity of form, nor describing the sophistication of melodic and contrapuntal writing that Bach employs. Every book I know of oversimplifies or even avoids the issues that Bach so admirably handles. The answers are here, in the music, not in a text. Absolutely invaluable for the serious music student.	2002-06-15
US	53011885	R1VIEZ1I99ABN3	0486223612	656966031	Ludwig van Beethoven Complete String Quartets	Books	5	46	47	N	N	Perhaps the best bargain in music ever...	Not every Dover score is a gem; some are merely reprints of earlier editions complete with the typographical errors that didn't get caught the first time around.  But this edition of Beethoven's complete string quartets is of excellent quality, and for the price it may well be the best bargain in music ever.  The music is incredibly important--superb pieces by one of the most gifted people to ever live.  That all the quartets are included allows the student of these works to trace Beethoven's stylistic development in a single volume from the early quartets rooted in the Classical tradition through those absolutely innovative late quartets, which combined Baroque contrapuntal and formal elements with Romantic harmonies and Beethoven's own unique sense of rhythm and drama.  (In addition to the originally published version of the final quartet with the new final movement suggested by his publisher, the Grosse Fuge is included also.)  I recommend to all my music students and especially my composition students that they get these pieces and study them throughout their lives.  I can honestly say that I have learned more from these quartets than from any other, similar body of music literature by a single composer; and even as a composer of twenty-first century music I am continuously educated and inspired by them.	2002-06-15
US	53011885	R1L3THYYA6HJJA	074343627X	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Sprawling Monstrosities	Stephen King has a proven track record as one of the world's most popular fiction writers; unfortunately he is also one of the most self-indulgent.  His books are gigantic sprawling blobs, rather like the rapacious alien fungus set to devour the world in Dreamcatcher.  Sometimes he can't even contain himself within even a trilogy--the Dark Tower series advanced its plot not at all in his most recent (fourth) installment.  In his continuing battles with the publishing world, his fans often come out the losers.  It is they who ended up paying three times as much for the six installment version of The Green Mile than if King had originally released it as a traditional novel; and anyone who had faith in King and bought the internet version of The Plant simply got ripped off, as he never finished it.  <br />Dreamcatcher continues along this self-indulgent path.  Although there's a good story under all the fatty layers of excessive prose, it is a story King's fans have read before--sort of Stand By Me meets The Tommyknockers.  King's style is full of self-reference--I counted at least four completely irrelevant references to other King books.  He loves to bury the reader in detail; at its best this technique brings the characters to life, but too often simply distracts from the storyline.  Although no one could truthfully say that his books are predictable, King is so fond of foreshadowing that we know well in advance what is coming.  He also uses a changing point of view that allows him to move the story around from the original four characters to a situation completely unknown to them about one-third of the way through the book--a lurch I found quite awkward.  I wonder how different, how much more compact and perhaps more compelling the book might have been if it had been told only from the viewpoint of the four friends, without ever introducing the one-dimensional, almost cartoonish villain Kurtz.  (Given that some of those original characters die early on, it might have been quite a challenge!)  <br />But King fans are all familiar with these foibles, and they seem to forgive him all.  He knows how to reward his readers with little pats on the back for keeping up with him--the self-references are surely there for his die-hard fans as much as for himself, and asides like \\"Gray\\" and \\"Gary\\" being anagrams, or Kurtz as a pseudonym from Apocalypse Now and The Heart of Darkness make the astute reader feel just a little bit special.<br />In his afterward, King talks about the book as a vehicle for his pain; it seems to me that there is quite a bit of anger there too, and even contempt.  The presence of these emotions, though, gives the book some strength that puts it above much of his other writing.  Still, I have to hope that his pain will burn away some of the excessive gigantism; I far prefer the leaner, more intimate King of works like Misery and Thinner.	2002-06-09
US	53011885	R3423VO3MQ5OBS	0316693200	309666534	2nd Chance	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Patterson Makes Good on His 2nd Chance	I'd really lost almost all interest in Patterson's work lately--he's gotten so caught up in double and triple plot twists that his storylines just don't make sense anymore--but I'd retained a bit of respect for the man who gave us Alex Cross and Along Came a Spider, a truly terrific book.  So although I'd sworn not to purchase another Patterson, at least at full price, when I got the chance to borrow 2nd Chance, I decided to give Patterson his own eponymous opportunity.  And how fortunate that I'd just read DC Comic's re-issue of Crisis on Infinite Earths, because that book gave me the perspective to really enjoy Patterson from a different perspective.<br />The tiny chapters, the snappy pace of the book (even though it is over 400 pages, don't be put off, about a third of those are blank, what with the beginning and ending margins!), the abbreviated dialogue, stylized characters and plot driven story--Patterson reads like a comic book for adults, I realized!  And when I'd come to this realization I began to enjoy him quite a bit more.  Instead of comparing his books to those featuring Alex Delaware (by Jonathan Kellerman), Hieronymous Bosch (by Michael Connelly), or Lucas Davenport (by John Stanford), none of which he can hold the proverbial candle to, I began comparing them to Batman and Spiderman comics and the like.  Now, granted there are no pictures and his characters have no superpowers, but there is a very similar approach--no moral ambiguity, stereotypical characters, and everything in service of the duel between good and evil.  And to his own credit, Patterson dispensed with the obligatory double plot twist in 2nd Chance, keeping the story credible.<br />What effect co-author Andrew Gross had on this book is a mystery and will probably remain so, but it seemed to be entirely beneficial.  I enjoyed 2nd Chance more than I'd enjoyed any Patterson book in years.  (For your own good, stay away from Cradle And All unless you want to experience the depths to which an author can sink and still get published--even the comic book analogy can't save this one!)  I'll surely borrow a copy of whatever Patterson writes next, and who knows, I might even find myself actually paying good money for his stuff sometime in the future.ch an author can sink and still get published--even the comic book analogy can't save this one!)  I'll surely borrow a copy of whatever Patterson writes next, and who knows, I might even find myself actually paying good money for his stuff sometime in the future.	2002-06-04
US	53011885	R15BT74TNQSE66	1563897504	841852739	Crisis On Infinite Earths	Books	2	5	8	N	N	Great Scott, What a Critical Disappointment!	Why DC has decided to re-release Crisis on Infinite Earths 16 years after its original release is a mystery. Perhaps because they want a bite out of the wallets of gullible folks like myself. By 1985 I had \\"grown out\\" of comics, but I did hear about the Crisis storyline and I was intrigued--certainly not enough to follow a series through a year of comic books (I was getting a doctorate and had no inclination for such frivolity!), but enough to remember it. When I saw Crisis at the bookstore recently I thought I'd indulge in a little nostalgia and see how the universe of DC changed. In particular I was interested in how the single dimensional characters so poorly drawn in such flat colors became the more complex, better drawn and imagined characters I occasionally glimpse today. For instance, when I was young, Aquaman was a clean shaven Bruce Jenner-type in a silly orange top and green trunks, but now he's Poseidon with a flowing beard, Cap'n Hook hand and bad attitude. I imagined this transformation started, at least, with the Crisis.<br />If you've read it, you are no doubt snickering at my naivete. For, sure enough, for all the hype, very little changed forever with Crisis. Certainly it was not the stage for which DC's heroes became more complex and more visually interesting. The most significant things it contains are the death of the Flash (but he gets replaced with another Flash in the same costume) and Supergirl. Sure, other superheroes and supervillains die, but most of them are characters we hadn't seen or cared about in decades anyway. And therein lies the first of the two enormous problems with Crisis--in an attempt to incorporate literally every DC hero to date, the plot is convoluted and the characters watered down so that we simply don't care about any of their fates. Bat Lash? The Human Bomb? Why? And oddly, The Blue Beetle gets what appears to be a major role for the first several episodes, then gets dropped like a hot potato bug. Imagine a movie about the end of the universe in which every major actor in Hollywood in the last 50 years gets a cameo and only a cameo, and you'll have some sense of the scope of the problem. Writer Marv Wolfman isn't up to the challenge, but in fairness I'm not sure anyone would be.<br />The second problem is that, in spite of the affection many reviewers here obviously have for artist George Perez, he's not really that good. Look carefully at the pictures--sure, there are an awful lot of superheroes crammed into every panel, but the perspective and anatomy are often flawed. Especially where an object comes in front of another figure, often the line of the background figure does not come out where it ought. And although one reviewer recommends judging this book by its cover, I disagree. The quality of work on the cover, with its shading, is far superior to anything contained within, and not at all reflective of the book itself. Likewise, the detail of the pictures and the quality of the color I find lacking. For example, horrible shadow creatures plague the various Earths repeatedly, but they look so silly they can't be taken seriously. Perhaps I'm asking too much from a comic, but I think that Crisis set itself up to be taken seriously. And certainly the artwork and storylines of Marvel comics even 10 or more years earlier was of much higher quality.  Remember the short lived New Gods, done at DC but by Jack Kirby, longtime Marvel artist?  In fact, those characters return here--in particular Darkseid has an important role--and they are some of the most visually interesting in the lot.<br />In short, Crisis on Infinite Earths is only worth purchasing (and look at the price--it ain't cheap!) if you've already read the story and simply can't live without it. If you missed it first time around, do yourself a favor and avoid this Crisis altogether.	2002-06-04
US	53011885	R2CY9MQ1YBS6HY	0684826127	346694031	Water Witches	Books	4	7	8	N	N	"I Want To Believe"	Having just read Robert L. Park's Voodoo Science: The Road from Foolishness to Fraud, Chris Bohjalian's Water Witches came to my attention. The two books take completely different approaches. Voodoo Science is a non-fiction examination of extraordinary claims from a purely rational viewpoint; Water Witches is a fictional account of humanity's deep need to believe in the mystical. Read together, the two complement one another in a remarkable fashion (although surely Park would cringe to hear me say so), for after all, even if the rational mind ever is able to explain everything, it surely still will not satisfy our desire for the divine.<br />Divination or dowsing, not just hunting for water but seeking contact with an outer force, is the root of the mystical in Bohjalian's book, which pits this extraordinary force against not the rationality of science but the economic force of the modern businessman. Bohjalian is fair to both sides for the most part but certainly loads things in favor of the supernatural at the end. This I found to be the greatest flaw of the book--the dowser's power was so strong, so consistent and so universally recognized throughout the area that what should have been a matter of faith became instead matter-of-fact, and the vision that came with such difficulty to the main character will seem obvious to most readers well in advance. But the gentle story is attractive and the characters well drawn. The protagonist's journey from rationalist to believer was convincing within the context Bohjalian creates. Robert Park most likely wouldn't enjoy this book, and neither will real estate developers, action fans or seekers of the dark occult arts. But the rest of us are likely to find a lovely insight into what we hope is true.	2002-06-04
US	53011885	RFNVJFD8RNWP8	0451458745	609413785	Orbis	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Entertaining Weirdness	This is my first Scott Mackay book, and I didn't quite know what to expect.  Orbis is a very entertaining alternate history, set on an Earth in which the Roman Empire attained space travel (in spite of never splitting the atom, or even understanding its basic nature) but was eventually banished from the planet by shapeshifting aliens.  I don't want to give away too much of the plot, because the plot IS the book (characterizations, etc. are nothing special), and readers of these reviews will want to proceed into other reviews with caution, if it isn't already too late.  But Mackay tosses in more and more weirdness, and manages to do so fairly plausibly.  Very devout Christians may be offended by his portrayal of the Catholic Church and Christianity itself, but keep in mind it's only fiction.  And in spite of having a book with two races of aliens, Romans from outer space, Missouri Catholics, and Kiowa Indians all together, the work isn't a farce.  What exactly it is isn't quite certain--I did find myself wondering what was the relevance of it all several times.  Perhaps the most significant theme is that &quot;The enemy of my enemy is my friend&quot; is a very dangerous slogan to live by; and this is certainly worth remembering in these trying times.  But ultimately Orbis is mostly and simply an entertaining read.	2002-06-04
US	53011885	R375TQQW1B5V6K	0805060200	351248779	Boy in the Water	Books	3	0	0	N	N	All Wet	Boy in the Water is more a psychological thriller than an action thriller, which may well account for the number of reviews here complaining of its slow pacing.  But regardless of its author's intent, I must agree with those reviews from the perspective of the reader.  Dobyns can clearly handle a sentence, even a paragraph or a chapter; but too often the suspense of the entire storyline was handled clumsily.  There were few surprises other than the rather unpleasant one for the reader of a most unsatisfactory denoument--again, probably set up the way it was to emphasize the psychological rather than action aspects, but hardly well-done for all that.  And how two of the villians of the book ever got together isn't important enough for Dobyns to concern himself with; but I was left wondering where the paths of a wealthy stepfather and a serial killer would meet and how in the world they might recognize in the other someone who would fulfil their unsavory needs.  Most readers apparently either love Boy in the Water or hate it; the best I can say about my reaction is that it left me indifferent.	2002-05-01
US	53011885	R91TFT1RVDK15	088188555X	532878216	La Cage Aux Folles ~ Vocal Selections (Piano/Words/Guitar Chords)	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Good value, and the only affordable source for these songs	A typical Hal Leonard publication, this contains Patrick Holland's (?) arrangements of all of the most important songs of the Broadway musical La Cage Aux Folles (not the Robin Williams film or the French original). From the songs on the original Broadway cast recording, only \\"Cocktail Counterpoint\\" is missing. Composer/lyricist Jerry Herman is perhaps more well-known, at least to older audiences, as the composer of Mame; these songs are rather in that same vein.<br />The keys of the pieces here are not always identical to those of the musical--the opening number \\"We Are What We Are\\", for example, begins in B major in the musical but is given in C major here. Surely the transposition is for ease of performance, but anyone looking to this to learn the show should be forewarned. The arrangements are not overly simplified and are a good representation for piano of the orchestral score. Chord symbols and guitar tablature are also included.<br />Songs included are \\"We Are What We Are\\", \\"A Little More Mascara\\", \\"With You On My Arm\\", \\"Song On The Sand\\", \\"La Cage Aux Folles\\", \\"I Am What I Am\\", \\"Masculinity\\", \\"Look Over There\\", and \\"The Best of Times\\".<br />About the songs themselves; the showstopper \\"I Am What I Am\\" has become a gay anthem of affirmation and is a gorgeous song with an important message regardless of one's sexual orientation. \\"La Cage Aux Folles\\", \\"Masculinity\\", and \\"We Are What We Are\\" are quite witty. \\"A Little More Mascara\\" is by turns poignant and funny. \\"Look Over There\\" and \\"Song on the Sand\\" are unconventional love songs, sentimental in a unique way. \\"The Best of Times\\" calls us to live and love for today, in a way reminiscent of Candide. Only \\"With You On My Arm\\" is a disappointment, and that only because it is rather average, with no particular appeal or sparkle, not because it is actively bad.<br />Along with the songs one gets a reproduction of the musical's poster on the cover and 13 full or half page black and white photographs of good quality, but not well labeled. Like the original cast CD's photos, if you don't already know which one is George Hearn and which one is Gene Barry, you won't find out here! The most remarkable of the photos is a rehearsal picture showing one of the male dancers in dress and heels (no wig) doing a 180 degree split kick in the standing position--one leg on the floor and the other fully extended over his head. How such a thing is possible without major structural damage I'm not sure, but I'm certainly in awe.y, but not well labeled. Like the original cast CD's photos, if you don't already know which one is George Hearn and which one is Gene Barry, you won't find out here! The most remarkable of the photos is a rehearsal picture showing one of the male dancers in dress and heels (no wig) doing a 180 degree split kick in the standing position--one leg on the floor and the other fully extended over his head. How such a thing is possible without major structural damage I'm not sure, but I'm certainly in awe.	2002-05-01
US	53011885	R3S5LYPSPX0Y1A	0195135156	53004101	Voodoo Science: The Road from Foolishness to Fraud	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Preaching to the Choir	Robert Park's Voodoo Science is an excellent expose of science gone wrong.  Park defines three main problems: pathological science, when scientists deliberately continue down a mistaken path in spite of the evidence; junk science, claims made to convince laymen based not on probability or evidence, but on possibility only; and pseudoscience, beliefs without scientific foundation at all, but supported by scientific jargon.<br />But don't for a moment think that this is an attack on science itself--far from it.  Park is a professor of Physics at the University of Maryland, and he is impassioned about the sciences and scientific discovery.  Voodoo Science is an attempt to make science better, by calling on all concerned to exercise critical thinking over blind acceptance and to recognize the difference between entertainment, belief and truth.<br />He takes on fellow scientists, backyard inventors, new age gurus and healers, and especially (and deservedly) the media.  I was incensed reading his accounts of the irresponsible reporting from the national media of many of these claims.  But herein lies the problem--for those with a fairly strong general scientific background, Park's writing is easy to follow and his arguments compelling.  But the media doesn't report for those people, primarily, and they apparently don't see their responsibility as education.  I can't help feeling that most people reading this book will already agree with Park's point of view, although they may not have applied his reasoning to each of the cases he examines.  I doubt that those of a less skeptical mind will be convinced, and certainly some of the other reviews bear out my expectations.<br />Park doesn't swing wildly, either; he restricts his aim to only a few targets.  Most of his time is spent on perpetual motion machines and cold fusion; homeopathy also earns his scorn.  Unfortunately, if you believe in the memory of water, and use liquid crystal displays as an example, you're not going to be convinced by the director of the Washington office of the American Physical Society, even if he knows what he's talking about and you don't.  Park cites the X-File's Fox Mulder's office sign &quot;I want to believe&quot; and so obviously he is aware of the problem.<br />Less thoroughly covered is the category of pseudoscience, and I'm lead to wonder whether Park steered clear of this category out of fear of alienating his readers through confronting their religious beliefs.  For example, creationism is totally ignored in favor of discussing the scare of high-power lines.  But the examples of voodoo science are innumerable, and criticizing Park for leaving certain ones out is to miss the point.  Park shows us a way to think, but as a true educator he leaves the thinking to us.  We will all be better if we are less gullible.ng to be convinced by the director of the Washington office of the American Physical Society, even if he knows what he's talking about and you don't.  Park cites the X-File's Fox Mulder's office sign &quot;I want to believe&quot; and so obviously he is aware of the problem.  <br />Less thoroughly covered is the category of pseudoscience, and I'm lead to wonder whether Park steered clear of this category out of fear of alienating his readers through confronting their religious beliefs.  For example, creationism is totally ignored in favor of discussing the scare of high-power lines.  But the examples of voodoo science are innumerable, and criticizing Park for leaving certain ones out is to miss the point.  Park shows us a way to think, but as a true educator he leaves the thinking to us.  We will all be better if we are less gullible.	2002-04-12
US	53011885	R3S0TMX9TQD5Y6	038550084X	597623183	Fraud	Books	3	0	4	N	N	Not Quite Sedaris	Of course there are comparisons to be made between David Rakoff and David Sedaris--they're not just both gay Jewish New Yorkers who write for This American Life and who have appeared on David Letterman, but they also share a profoundly similar world-view.  The \\"Fraud\\" of the title is Rakoff himself--his introspective essays contained herein reveal more about himself than his putative prey...er, subjects.  Similarly, the more mature Sedaris reveals himself in his essays.  And in both cases, the writers are intelligent, sensitive, lost, simultaneously sentimental and cynical; even damaged.  In Fraud's  inscription, Rakoff quotes Addison De Witt: \\"You're maudlin and full of self-pity.  You're magnificent.\\"  At his best, in Christmas Freud; Before & After Science; Lather, Rinse, Repeat; and I Used to Bank Here, But That Was Long Ago, Rakoff is indeed magnificent--the equal of Sedaris.  But he is also occasionally annoying, whiny, and opinionated--not always wittily so.  This uneven performance mars the book significantly, and marks Rakoff as a voice worth listening for, but not ultimately of the consistently high quality of Sedaris.	2002-04-08
US	53011885	R1KZ29L5ZKG27W	037570261X	102647171	Life: A Natural History of the First Four Billion Years of Life on Earth	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Disappointingly Off Target	I wanted to love this book--although not a scientist, I have been interested in the biological sciences and particularly paleontology all my life.  But the book evolved along a divergent path from the expectations raised by the subtitle: A Natural History of the First Four Billion Years of Life on Earth.  Like the Irish elk's enormous antlers, fully a third (at least) of the book takes a detrimental tangent.<br />In an already slim 322 pages, Fortey constantly veers off track into his own personal experiences or historical sketches of paleontological personalities.  While his writing style makes this material fairly engaging, it is not at all to the point of the history of life.  There is a difference between the history of life and the history of the discovery of that knowledge.<br />This approach even extends to the 88 illustrations--of which 14 are of famous scientists or other irrelevancies, including a photograph of a hotel, one of slot machines, and one of Fortey's frozen underwear.  Fortey is fully conscious of this approach--at one point he says, \\"The change from water to land, this unscrambling of history I have described, is not merely about the discovery of facts; it is also an anthropological study, every bit as human as the intention of a novel.\\"  I would argue that the change from water to land isn't at all about the discovery of facts, but about the facts themselves--the discovery of facts is unimportant except as a background on how to judge the quality of those facts, which  a popularization such as this seldom concerns itself.<br />Later, on the same page, Fortey describes the results of an application of X-rays to Devonian Shale: \\"...starfish petrified with their minutest details conserved; sea lilies with their most delicate, feathery pinnules stretched out to gather seafood, more graceful than a peacock feather; and, just as showy, trilobites with limbs and antennae still scrabbling; and other, strange arthropods that had no record since the Burgess Shale of the Cambrian.\\"  How I wish that I could have read about the lives of these organisms rather than about the professional spats between cladists and non-cladists; how I wish that I could have seen a photograph of these creatures rather than one of Lady Smith Woodward's embroidered tablecloth.<br />Ultimately I did not learn much about the development of life on Earth; and when a non-scientist can say that about a book by a senior paleontologist at London's Natural History Museum, that is a very grim recommendation indeed.Burgess Shale of the Cambrian.\\"  How I wish that I could have read about the lives of these organisms rather than about the professional spats between cladists and non-cladists; how I wish that I could have seen a photograph of these creatures rather than one of Lady Smith Woodward's embroidered tablecloth.  <br />Ultimately I did not learn much about the development of life on Earth; and when a non-scientist can say that about a book by a senior paleontologist at London's Natural History Museum, that is a very grim recommendation indeed.	2002-04-08
US	53011885	R3MICAICR1ZXPV	0684857359	177040953	In the Wake of the Plague: The Black Death and the World It Made	Books	3	23	24	N	Y	Avoid this like the plague...	Cantor strikes a populist direction with this book.  He affects a breezy writing style (one can easily imagine much of his writing as a spoken, off-the-cuff lecture punctuated by more-or-less amusing asides, some of which totally derail his train of thought), the book is short (only 220 pages of text) and there is not a single footnote.  The obvious comparison in terms of subject matter is to Barbara Tuchman's A Distant Mirror: The Calamitous 14th Century.  Tuchman made a best seller from her remarkable approach in spite of her scholarly writing-style.  Cantor's book lacks that sophistication of approach, and is further marred, as other reviewers have already noted, by too much repetition, too many asides, too much unsupported speculation, too many inconsistencies, and too many factual errors.  There is some merit to the book, but its flaws far outweigh its worth.<br />Cantor at his best cites an interesting theory: that the Black Death was not a single disease, but two or more--not bubonic plague alone, but also some cattle-borne disease such as a particularly virulent form of anthrax.  Supporting this theory are the Black Death's infestation of Iceland, an isolated island not known to have rats until the 17th Century, the often extremely rapid course of the disease--faster than that of bubonic plague; the lack of typical bubonic plague symptoms in many victims; the evidence that cattle were ravished by the Black Death; and the continued virulence of the plague in winter months when flea hosts would not normally live.  The theory is not Cantor's own, but he has researched and supported it in convincing fashion.  Less adequate is Cantor's chapter \\"Heritage of the African Rifts\\", which discusses the three pandemics of smallpox, gonorrhea, and plague and places their origin in \\"the great mortality chute from East Africa.  Certainly that is where the bubonic plague came from after A.D. 500.\\"  But in his bibliography Cantor cites William H. McNeill's Plagues and Peoplesand says, contradicting his own earlier statement written with such certainty, \\"McNeill thought the Mongols, their migrations and conquests, were a key to plague history; there may be something in that.\\"<br />Also of interest, but clearly quirky, was Cantor's chapter on various speculations on the true cause of the Black Death.  \\"Serpents and Cosmic Dust\\" covers alternative explanations for the \\"biomedical catastrophe\\" from the medieval to the present, focusing on two suggestions: the first, that snakes were the carriers; the second, that plague came from outer space.  Cantor is kind, although not entirely enthusiastic, about these speculations: at one point he says \\"It is just possible that medieval writers who placed the origins of the Black Death in serpents dispensing plague as they swam up rivers were on to something.\\"  Unfortunately, the only \\"evidence\\" he offers is that another historian on an unrelated issue once took medieval writers at their word in the face of academic thought and has since been vindicated.  The argument in favor of the cosmic dust theory is basically that it was proposed by eminent astrophysicist Fred Hoyle--what is not mentioned is Hoyle's second career as a well-known science fiction writer.  Hoyle's is a fascinating speculation, which only the most flimsy of circumstantial evidence can currently support.  <br />Cantor mentions one fascinating fact in this chapter that needed to be explored much further: plague was not widespread in Poland and Bohemia.  This has been explained \\"by the rats' avoidance of these areas due to the unavailability of food the rodents found palatable.\\"  This seems unlikely --elsewhere Cantor points out the relative agricultural wealth of Poland and the Ukraine.  Could Polish grain really be considerably different than Western European grain--and what of the anthrax theory, which would have the disease unaffected by the rodent's diet?  <br />Socio-cultural differences between Poland and Bohemia and the rest ofEurope would make an ideal testing ground for those theories concerning the effect the Black Death had on society, the arts, and religion. But rather than do any original research comparing plague-ridden and plague-free areas, Cantor merely launches into various criticisms of his colleagues' work in his final chapter, \\"Aftermath\\".  Cantor examines these theories and subjects them to a much less forgiving critique than the far wilder speculations mentioned previously.  Some of these attacks are odd indeed, such as critiquing a book published in 1919!   This is the most poorly written and argued part of the entire book, and honestly I cannot tell to what conclusion Cantor comes-whether the Black Death did or did not have any profound effect beyond killing off certain talented individuals. <br />Finally, the outright errors.  Rather than repeat those caught by other reviewers, I'll discuss the extraordinary apparent claim of time-travel.  Cantor recounts the story of the le Strange/Talbot family.  Richard Talbot inherited the la Strange estate from the dowager Mary upon her \\"dying in 1396.\\"  (Whether this was a plague-related death Cantor apparently deems unimportant.)  Later in the chapter we are told \\"Richard Talbot, newly enriched by the le Strange fortune, got his father out of debtor's prison and the old soldier died of the plague in 1387 in Spain...\\"  How could Richard have paid his father's debts with money he wouldn't receive for nine more years? I cannot account for the chronology of events without either contemplating a typographical error, a rift in the space-time continuum, or a mis-informed or deeply confused author.  Hopefully it is the former, and Mary died ten years earlier than Cantor reports; but I am left with the discomforting concern that the dates are correct and Cantor simply speculated on Talbot's source of funds.  Unfortunately this is not an isolated error.<br />While Cantor's book is more up-to-date than Barbara Tuchman's is, I can't recommend it, even as a supplement.  It is too deeply flawed on too many levels.  I'm left to wonder if some horrible computer virus didn't work its way through the manuscript, decimating the writing and killing at least 40% of the ultimate value of the book.  As Cantor says, \\"It is just possible.\\"	2002-02-11
US	53011885	R3JGJ8T02LIDB3	0761123148	501057043	8 Simple Rules for Dating My Teenage Daughter: And Other Tips from a Beleaguered Father (Not That Any of Them Work)	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Obvious Humor	I dunno, the other reviewers thought this was a hoot, but I thought the humor was pretty obvious for the most part. Yes, I occasionally laughed aloud, and the very last chapter was particularly good. Occasionally Cameron comes up with a particularly apt turn-of-phrase that evokes a chuckle, or an extraordinarily inappropriate one that brings smiles. But you know, we've heard most of this before. How funny is it that teenage girls are on the phone all the time and that your phone bills are going to be twice the GNP of an impoverished African country? ...Buy it if you need a book for the bathroom desparately, otherwise, pass...Cameron is no Dave Barry.	2002-02-01
US	53011885	R354ZSOR0RVCKS	0316154075	347427189	A Darkness More Than Night	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Say it ain't so, Bosch!	Many of the other reviews here claim that this is not Michael Connelly's best work, and I have to agree.  That it not to say it is a bad book, not by any means.  Connelly is a terrific writer and his novels are not just crime stories but truly literature, not only intricately plotted, but with strong characterizations and a poetic sensibility toward description, setting, and the like.  In a sense the problem is that he raised our expectations so high with his earlier work.  I just don't think there is any better detective fiction than the opening Harry Bosch quartet (The Black Ice, The Black Echo, The Concrete Blonde, and The Last Coyote).  The strength of those books was twofold: absolutely riveting crimes, and Harry Bosch's complex, troubled, but nevertheless fascinating personality.  You've just gotta love a cop named after Renaissance painter Hieronymous Bosch, and you've gotta appreciate a writer who respects his audience enough to do that.  But this novel, unfortunately, does not quite meet Connelly's highest standards, and it is exactly because there are problems with both crime and Bosch's portrayal.  If you've not read Connelly before, read no more of this review and go get those first Bosch books now.<br />A Darkness More Than Night tries to play on Bosch's complexities; his barely pent-up anger, his deep frustration, and his moral need for justice to be done.  A killer who had escaped justice is murdered, and former FBI agent Terry McCaleb (of Blood Work) comes to believe that Bosch is responsible.  But herein lies the problem--while, granted, McCaleb hasn't read the previous Bosch books and so doesn't know him as well as we do, the reader who knows Connelly's previous work is never able to believe Bosch capable of that.  It's as though John McDonald asked us to suddenly accept Travis McGee as a serial killer--impossible!  So the reader is left wondering why, when at one point McCaleb acknowledges the possibility that someone is setting up Bosch, he doesn't investigate that immediately.  And furthermore, when the denouement comes round, the real killer is no great surprise, nor is his motivation.  There are a few unexpected twists at the end.  Overall, however, the focus is more on McCaleb than Bosch, and since McCaleb is supposed to be a genius profiler but makes such an egregious mistake, and the true criminal so obvious, the whole is slightly disappointing.  I'm still looking forward to his next novel, City of Bones, which I believe focuses more on Bosch.'t investigate that immediately.  And furthermore, when the denouement comes round, the real killer is no great surprise, nor is his motivation.  There are a few unexpected twists at the end.  Overall, however, the focus is more on McCaleb than Bosch, and since McCaleb is supposed to be a genius profiler but makes such an egregious mistake, and the true criminal so obvious, the whole is slightly disappointing.  I'm still looking forward to his next novel, City of Bones, which I believe focuses more on Bosch.	2002-01-30
US	53011885	R3AI6T1NYIWWNX	0316640654	53273275	Not the End of the World	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Dark Social Satire	NOT THE END OF THE WORLD is an apocalyptic millennial book that is dark comedy at its darkest. Although Brookmyre missed a bit on the facts and timing, this tale of fanatical religious zealots trying to destroy America and rebuild it in their image is unfortunately all too timely. The zealots in this fictional account are Christian, not Moslem; but when dealing with fanaticism the exact flavor scarcely matters. However, Brookmyre uses his book to mount a scathing attack on fundamentalism of any sort and simultaneously makes a compelling, albeit tragically jaded, case for atheism: \\"Some wee old spinster in Coatsbridge, in her hairy coat, plastic Rainmate and furry boots, nipping into the Co-op minimarket for a half-pound of cheap mince on the way home from the chapel, Scottish Catholic Universe under her arm, might tell herself she wasn't, spiritually speaking, doing any harm. But she'd be kidding herself. And acting the humble innocent wouldn't help. Hardline Islamics would have her on the dress-code, for a start. Vain, shameless slattern, flaunting herself like that in public, for all the world to see. Hindus wouldn't go a bundle on her planned ingestion of bloody flesh, or her wider complicity in the sacred animal's slaughter. Attendance at the 'temple of the Satanic anti-Christ of Rome' remains something of a no-no as far as the Scottish Free Presbyterians and Ian Paisley's mob are concerned. And as for a woman being able to read, well, ask the Taleban about that in Kabul. Then duck. Cumulatively, the world's religions could provide a God-given justification to hate anything about anybody. Steff had decided some years ago to hate them all back.\\" And there is much more. In fact, Brookmyre's apparent vitriol toward organized religion is so strong that I am surprised the book was published in America at all.<br />But those of us who are not offended by that point of view will find NOT THE END OF THE WORLD a terrific thriller, with a fascinating and ever-twisting plot that engages the reader throughout. Just when I thought I knew what would happen next the action took another unexpected but plausible turn. And the characterizations were engaging; even the villains had some sympathetic motivations to their heinous plans.<br />Brookmyre has a darkly wicked sense of humor and pays homage to the Monty Python gang and Scottish comedian Billy Connolly, among others. All in all, NOT THE END OF THE WORLD is definitely worth a read, even though the dates in the book didn't quite pan out. People are still reading 1984, aren't they?t that engages the reader throughout. Just when I thought I knew what would happen next the action took another unexpected but plausible turn. And the characterizations were engaging; even the villains had some sympathetic motivations to their heinous plans. <br />Brookmyre has a darkly wicked sense of humor and pays homage to the Monty Python gang and Scottish comedian Billy Connolly, among others. All in all, NOT THE END OF THE WORLD is definitely worth a read, even though the dates in the book didn't quite pan out. People are still reading 1984, aren't they?	2002-01-28
US	53011885	R31KZQXE8O5QQ7	0316666009	30029813	1st to Die (Women's Murder Club)	Books	3	0	2	N	N	The Obligatory Double Plot Twist Gets Tiresome	There comes a time in some writer's careers when their penchant for being unpredictable becomes all too predictable. It happened to Ambrose Bierce--read a collection of his short stories and after a few, those great and unexpected endings become not-so-eagerly-anticipated. And so it is now with James Patterson. Readers new to his writing will probably be wowed with the endings; but his long-time fans will likely sigh with frustration at the over-familiar. Roses are Red was a terrific read, except for the last sentence--take a look at the reviews here on Amazon and see how many people that one angered. Unfortunately 1st to Die isn't the first to simply contain a few too many twists. And what is more, the twists don't really add up--in that way, Bierce is far the superior writer. I won't say more because to do so would ruin the novel, and most of it is a pretty good thriller. I didn't find the female characters quite as convincing as some of the other reviewers here, but the crimes were certainly shocking--if only the right villain had committed them! I haven't sworn off Patterson completely, but I'm certainly not buying any more hardbacks. I just finished rereading John Sandford's Certain Prey; Sandford and Patterson are a lot alike, but I think Sandford has maintained his quality through the years.	2002-01-14
US	53011885	R2BTC0A5INBDU7	0380521598	112250674	Earthworks	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Fascinating Novella Set In A Grim Future	The 1960's were a time of utopian hopes, celebrating peace, free love and the brotherhood of all; but also of a deep unease, even a nihilistic fear in the Western World.  Surely the Vietnam War, the amoral Nixon Administration and the constant threat of nuclear annihilation fed those fears; conservatives feared the destruction of values and society they had worked hard to attain while their opposite numbers feared their continuation.  The developed world's squandering of resources began to be understood by all; no longer did a belching smokestack indicate progress as much as environmental disaster.<br />At this time, science fiction gave us some of the grimmest writing yet.  John Brunner's Stand on Zanzibar, Kurt Vonnegut's Slaughterhouse Five, and Anthony Burgess's A Clockwork Orange are all outstanding examples of the fear and hopelessness authors of the time understood coursed close under the skin of the optimistic face of society.  Brian Aldiss's Earthworks is equally representative of this tone.  Although nowhere nearly as well known as my other examples, Aldiss's vision may actually be bleaker.  It is set in a future which follows all too recognizably from our own--pollution has taken its toll and disease and hunger are so rampant that they have become the identifying characteristic of the time.  Although Earthworks is quite short, at only 126 pages, it is a richly detailed and fully convincing portrait; disease and illness make the storytelling hallucinatory at times, leaving the narrator and reader questioning the very nature of reality.  Fans of Philip K. Dick will be enthralled by this quality. Aldiss is a superb writer at his very best here.  It is a real pity that Earthworks is out of print, but I would definitely recommend it for any science fiction fan search out a used copy.	2001-12-19
US	53011885	R2BVYHX3PJWWPB	0345385128	942915084	Nightmare, with Angel	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	A Different Kind of Thriller, Superbly Done	I can't agree with the previous critics who found holes in the plot and the pace slow. Given that they didn't cite any holes I can't rebut their claim, but I certainly found none and I am a quite critical reader. My take on Nightmare, With Angel was that it is a terrific thriller, far beyond the norm that takes up so much shelf space today. It is a pity that it is out of print, and I definitely recommend seeking out a used copy to thriller readers everywhere.<br />What makes Nightmare, With Angel so special is that the reader is never quite certain about the protagonist, Ryan O'Donnell. We first meet him saving the life of a young girl, Marianne Cadogan; but he is a reluctant hero at best. Marianne is drawn to him, but the reader knows him first as little more than a bum, then as a former mental patient, and finally as a convicted child killer. Whether the conviction was justified remains questionable almost to the end.<br />It is this complexity of characterization that makes the book so very good. Few of the characters are drawn in black or white; even Marianne's father and mother are ultimately revealed as deeply flawed people. As to the identity of the &quot;Angel&quot; of the title, O'Donnell, Marianne, and O'Donnell's psychotic vision are all cast at various times.<br />After reading Gallagher's Red, Red Robin (also out of print, but see my review here) I ordered this book, and Gallagher is quickly becoming one of my favorite authors. Look to him for something more than the standard American serial killer novels that have overwhelmed popular publishing today.	2001-12-19
US	53011885	REUVXVMPPQMBA	0060927453	680571095	Marching Through Georgia: The Story of Soldiers and Civilians During Sherman's Campaign	Books	5	35	40	N	Y	Excellent Recounting of a Painful Time	I was raised in Georgia and attended public school in Athens in the 60s and 70s. Even in a university town some 100 years after the Civil War there were people with embittered attitudes toward the North who saw themselves as citizens of a conquered country. This was surely due in part to Civil Rights legislation enforcing integration; and in part to that fable of Southern life, GONE WITH THE WIND. Most white Southerners know and many revile the name of William Tecumseh Sherman; not because they are ardent historians but because Margaret Mitchell and director Victor Fleming immortalized Sherman's burning of Atlanta on celluloid. In fact, although I hardly studied anything about the Civil War in public school, our class did take a 60-mile bus ride to watch GONE WITH THE WIND at the Fox Theatre in Atlanta. Although many years have passed, I have no reason to believe that today's young Georgians are any more informed about the actual history of their state; whether this is through official ignorance, shame, fear, or willful deceit I cannot say.<br />Lee Kennett's book, MARCHING THROUGH GEORGIA goes a long way toward addressing this ignorance, and should be required reading for every Georgian. The book focuses on Sherman's North Georgia Campaign, the Battle of Atlanta and the March to the Sea as it affected the soldiers and civilians of both sides. His discussion of strategy is general and primarily about Sherman's decision to have his army forage off the land. Even this is included because of the consequence such forage had for the people involved--Kennett lays the blame of the Union atrocities at the feet of this decision, but takes care to point out the nature of such \\"atrocities\\", and that truly severe crimes other than the destruction of property was rather rare. Indeed, what makes Kennett's book so valuable is its evenness of tone regarding the issues and personalities. A Sherman biographer, he neither idolizes nor demonizes the General. Sherman, though not the main subject of this book, emerges as a recognizable and very human figure. Sherman's devotion to duty was horrifyingly single-minded--Kennett relates an incident in which 28 Union soldiers are too ill to travel, and Sherman left them in the care of a Confederate hospital in Milledgeville while he moved on with his troops: \\"'If they die, give them a decent burial,' Sherman said, 'if they live, send them to Andersonville [the prison in south Georgia where Union soldiers were held in appalling conditions to die in the thousands], if course,' Dr. Massey may have looked a bit nonplussed at this, for Sherman added: 'They are prisoners of war, what else can you do? If I had your men I would send them to prison.'\\" In another incident, Sherman refused to accept Union prisoners from Andersonville in a prisoner exchange because they were too ill or wounded to fight.<br />Kennett's descriptions of Sherman's progress were very meaningful to me as a native of the state. Non-Georgians might get bogged down a bit in the geography, and this is one of the book's weaknesses, but a minor one. There are two maps included, but as neither shows a complete map of the state some readers might well be bewildered. The Andersonville prison played an important role as at least a potential target but appears on neither map. It was not liberated during Sherman's Georgia campaign, and had it been shown on the map its distance from Sherman's path would have been immediately clear. The only other flaw is the paucity of information on black Georgians and how the campaign affected them. Kennett addresses this, relating that most information on their situation is related by whites and is mostly stereotypical. He provides one touching conversation passed along from Joel Chandler Harris (author of the Uncle Remus/Brer Rabbit tales): \\"...an old black couple he found in a corner of fence, not far from the road Sherman's army had just passed: 'Who is that lying there?' asked Joe. 'It my old man, suh.' 'What is the matter with him?' 'He dead, suh, But bless God he died free.'\\"<br />Also extraordinary is the comradeship that grew between members of the opposing sides whenever contact was allowed. Animosity between combatants is expected, but over and over Kennett relates encounters between the two armies, or between Union soldiers and Southern civilians that are remarkable in that so many concerned seemed able to view their opposite number as a fellow human rather than an evil enemy. Southerners now know only the destruction Sherman's forces brought, emptying and burning Atlanta and many other towns; but at the time Sherman's actions were seen at least by some as a reasonable response to the Confederates' burning of Chambersburg, Pennsylvania.<br />MARCHING THROUGH GEORGIA is full of fascinating information: North Georgia, mostly populated by poor white farmers who didn't own slaves, was largely loyalist and opposed succession; Governor Joe Brown (after the war a US Senator!) supported States' Rights to the extent that he clashed repeatedly with Confederate President Jefferson Davis; Sherman's forces faced the most opposition and most difficult fighting in primarily loyalist North Georgia; after the burning of Atlanta Sherman was able to move through Georgia with very little fighting at all; and rather than \\"bushwacking\\" Sherman's forces and provoking a fight with vastly superior forces, most Georgians preferred to let him move quickly through their land.<br />The Civil War buff, fans of War Histories and Southern History and Georgians in general will all find much of interest in Marching Through Georgia. My knowledge of my home state has been immeasurably improved, and I am looking forward to reading Kennett's biography, SHERMAN.s the matter with him?' 'He dead, suh, But bless God he died free.'\\"<br />Also extraordinary is the comradeship that grew between members of the opposing sides whenever contact was allowed. Animosity between combatants is expected, but over and over Kennett relates encounters between the two armies, or between Union soldiers and Southern civilians that are remarkable in that so many concerned seemed able to view their opposite number as a fellow human rather than an evil enemy. Southerners now know only the destruction Sherman's forces brought, emptying and burning Atlanta and many other towns; but at the time Sherman's actions were seen at least by some as a reasonable response to the Confederates' burning of Chambersburg, Pennsylvania.<br />MARCHING THROUGH GEORGIA is full of fascinating information: North Georgia, mostly populated by poor white farmers who didn't own slaves, was largely loyalist and opposed succession; Governor Joe Brown (after the war a US Senator!) supported States' Rights to the extent that he clashed repeatedly with Confederate President Jefferson Davis; Sherman's forces faced the most opposition and most difficult fighting in primarily loyalist North Georgia; after the burning of Atlanta Sherman was able to move through Georgia with very little fighting at all; and rather than \\"bushwacking\\" Sherman's forces and provoking a fight with vastly superior forces, most Georgians preferred to let him move quickly through their land.<br />The Civil War buff, fans of War Histories and Southern History and Georgians in general will all find much of interest in Marching Through Georgia. My knowledge of my home state has been immeasurably improved, and I am looking forward to reading Kennett's biography, SHERMAN.	2001-12-19
US	53011885	R24SMBYVVMQBMI	0425174271	51899905	Certain Prey	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Terrific Thriller	I read Certain Prey when it first came out; in fact I wrote a review here which got lost in the vastness of virtual space somehow.  Usually I don't re-read thrillers; most of the joy is in the plot for works like these and they aren't really studies in characterization.  But I recently found myself looking for a quick read and unwittingly grabbed it again; within two sentences I remembered the plot but was intrigued enough to go through the whole thing again, and honestly enjoyed it more the second time around.  Sandford's dialogue is snappy, at least as good as Robert Parker's is.  His protagonist, Lucas Davenport, feels like a real character once you get past the millionaire cop thing.  Thriller readers will undoubtedly have noticed a similarity between Davenport and James Patterson's Alex Cross; but Cross is a family man who becomes more perfect with every novel.  Davenport lives alone (by this novel); he's grumpy at times and not above planting evidence if it will get him his killer.<br />And the killers--I do find the plethora of killer pairs in modern fiction getting to be tedious, and I think that is one of the major weaknesses of this novel.  Not only are there paired killers, but they are women--quite a stretch in the believability department.  Sandford does his best and is moderately successful at making their motives, personalities, and subsequent bonding seem possible.  Loneliness is a powerful force, and he evokes it successfully.  When I first read Certain Prey I thought that one of these characters, the Mafia hitwoman Clara Rinker, almost seemed to be written to be played by Jodie Foster; a kind of evil version of Clarice Starling from Thomas Harris's Silence of the Lambs and Hannibal.  That probably won't happen given her reticence to appear in Hannibal; but why the Prey series hasn't been filmed I really don't understand.  Hopefully Hollywood will come around soon.	2001-12-19
US	53011885	R38ZOUY7ONFGB2	1565121554	821428432	New Stories from the South 1996: The Year's Best	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fine Collection of Southern Slices of Life	This review is certainly belated, but the 1996 collection of New Stories from the South is worthy of review nevertheless.  The curiosity of the collection is William Faulkner's &quot;Rose of Lebanon&quot;, a story written in 1930, but only recently rediscovered and published in The Oxford American, thus &quot;qualifying&quot; it (as if there are judges standing by with little cups for the various stories to pee in?) for inclusion in this year's anthology.  Although Kirkus Reviews and Booklist hail the rediscovery, I have to think there must have been a good reason Faulkner himself did not pursue its publication more actively.  While the plot and characterisations are admirable, there is a certain awkwardness about how the tale is told.  Consider the following sentence, &quot;She looked like something made in an expensive shop, of lace and bright frosting, and turned upside down in the center of a hollow square of troops all young and none of whom had ever heard a bullet; by strange faces which, for all their youth and inexperience and perhaps foreboding, wore none the less of doubt for that.&quot;  Beautiful writing indeed, but that is supposed to be a line of dialogue.  Also: &quot;They all galloped bareheaded with brandished sabres when they had them, but anyway galloping, off the stage altogether, into a lot more rain than a December drizzle; maybe into somewhere else where they could bang themselves to pieces again, like puppets banging themselves to pieces against the painted board-and-plaster, the furious illusions of gardens and woods and dells; maybe to meet brighter faces than Lewis Randolph looking out a carriage window halted in a muddy road.&quot;  True, the South has a long tradition of storytelling and oratory which Faulkner, via the speaker, is clearly tapping in to; but it all seems a bit much for believable dialogue.  I grew up in the South, and although I love run-on sentences more than most, I've never heard anyone talk like that.  But this is a minor quibble, and the story is certainly worth a read, as are all the stories in the book.  Tim Gautreaux's &quot;Died and Gone to Vegas&quot; taps into the modern tradition of Southern Oratory--lies told over a card table; and while, like many of the stories, it is afflicted with a touch of the stereotypical view of Southerners as trailor trash, is nonetheless equally amusing and touching. My favorite story is &quot;Jealous Husband Returns in the Form of a Parrot&quot; by Robert Olen Butler.  Inspired by a tabloid headline, what seems to be an absurd idea actually takes on poignancy and becomes a surreal study of regret.  Susan Perabo's &quot;Some Say the World&quot;, Annette Sanford's &quot;Goose Girl&quot;, and Lee Smith's &quot;The Happy Memories Club&quot; all portray female protagonists at odds with the world and making their place in it as best they can.  Ellen Douglas's &quot;Grant&quot; rings with the truth of lost chances, when the narrator's husband's uncle, dying of cancer, moves in with them to live out his remaining days.<br />Most problematic was Tom Paine's &quot;General Markman's Last Stand&quot;, which Kirkus Reviews pans as &quot;simply unconvincing.&quot;  There is certainly an aspect of the story than makes it seem that Paine began with a vision of the final scene and worked backward from there.  But in some ways it is the most intriguing of the bunch--suggesting rather than telling.  Markman is a Marine general at the point of retirement who has earned the respect of his men by falling on a grenade (which turned out not to be live) in Vietnam.  He has a dark secret, though--he has a fetish for women's lingerie, and the shame of his fetish drives him to self-destructive behaviour.  The cause-and-effect of Markham's life is not clear.  Paine hints that his fetish developed in the battlefields of Vietnam, where his wife's underwear (originally sent as a reminder of her?) took on a totemic power providing for his personal safety, and that Markham'svaliant grenade dive was actually an attempt to destroy himself.  Markham finally manages at least professional self-destruction, but somehow Paine's story doesn't quite come off.  Perhaps it is as simple as needing to know what happened next.  But it certainly has one of the most shocking opening lines I've read, &quot;The General's panties were too tight.&quot;<br />If the 1996 anthology is any measure of the quality of the whole, New Stories from the South is a series to watch out for.  15 stories and not a bit of absurd gunplay, just touching or amusing slices of Southern Life.'s valiant grenade dive was actually an attempt to destroy himself.  Markham finally manages at least professional self-destruction, but somehow Paine's story doesn't quite come off.  Perhaps it is as simple as needing to know what happened next.  But it certainly has one of the most shocking opening lines I've read, &quot;The General's panties were too tight.&quot;<br />If the 1996 anthology is any measure of the quality of the whole, New Stories from the South is a series to watch out for.  15 stories and not a bit of absurd gunplay, just touching or amusing slices of Southern Life.	2001-11-17
US	53011885	R1V1FW7SIT9H1N	0156002353	310243274	People Have More Fun Than Anybody: A Centennial Celebration Of Drawings And Writings By James Thurber	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Dated but Amusing Collection of Previously Uncollected Stuff	People Have More Fun Than Anybody collects 19 of Thurber's stories/articles/letters, several cartoons, and one recipe that have been previously uncollected. Surely this is a classification that would have amused Thurber no end--are they now &quot;non-uncollected&quot; stories? In &quot;Help! Help! Another Classificationization&quot; Thurber sets himself against exactly this mindset. And frankly, at this late date in the late humorist's career, such a criteria for inclusion assures that the book will not bring us the best of his work.<br />However, Thurber is almost always witty, and even though some of the pieces are dated and irrelevant, all of the writings evoke at least a smile. The cartoons don't fare as well, some of them being merely puzzling. The end notes tell us that some cartoons had different captions in their original stages. The most wildly different is a picture of a woman leaning forward and speaking intently to a man. The published caption is &quot;If I told you a dream I had about you, Mr. Price, would you promise not to do anyting about it unless you really want to?&quot;, but the earlier caption on Thurber's original drawing was &quot;If they never found the husband's body could they do anything to the wife?&quot;<br />This is essentially a collection for the die-hard Thurber fan (who are rather few on the ground these days, it seems) only. Others will probably do better to read The Thurber Carnival.	2001-11-17
US	53011885	R3R7Y1UTNTE99V	0446519065	523975166	The Resurrectionist	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Disappointing Weirdness	The best thing about my copy of The Resurrectionist is the cover art, by Phil Heffernan.  Often it is the cover art that originally attracts us to a book, and all too seldom is the artist credited.  Thankfully, Warner Books has done so, and Heffernan's metallic, disembodied head and arms in a crucified position is an arresting image.<br />But Monteleone's text doesn't stand up to this gripping image.  The plot is unique and interesting, but Monteleone doesn't really grapple with the issues he raises.  The title character is a US Senator who discovers he has the power to raise the dead--at least temporarily.  Naturally everyone wants a piece of his gift, including the US government, who seek to keep it to themselves.  Rather than exploring the nature of his character's singular abilities, or their origin, Monteleone gives us just another shady government conspiracy novel, albeit complicated by a mysterious presence that ultimately turns out to be discouragingly mortal. But the nature of death, or the afterlife, are hardly dealt with--one resurrected character describes hovering over his own body, but that's about all.  More time is spent on the effect of the Senator's powers on his campaign for president, and whether they should be concealed or revealed.<br />There are some good moments in the book, particularly in Monteleone's characterizations.  Suddenly discovering that he has the ability to raise the dead puts a tremendous strain on the Senator, and Monteleone portrays this well.  But readers hoping for a supernatural thriller (whether of the Christian persuasion or not) are sure to be disappointed.  In that regard, The Resurectionist's powers are treated as nothing more unusual than a scientist with a secret nuclear formula.<br />Monteleone has repeatedly gone to the well of Christian-related supernatural fiction with The Blood of the Lamb : A Novel of the Second Coming and The Reckoning.  This time he comes up dry.	2001-11-15
US	53011885	R1DYG1MD26JDQR	0425179559	953931509	Hugger Mugger (Spenser)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Detective Lite	Reading one of Robert Parker's Spenser novels is like drinking a brand-name Lite beer. It's frothy, without much substance but enjoyable nevertheless, and you always know exactly what you are getting. No micro-brewery idiosyncrasies, delights, or surprises, pleasant or otherwise. But as I get older, I get more and more tired of the same old thing. Obviously Parker doesn't, nor do his readers, who never seem to demand more of him. Spenser never ages and nothing ever really changes in his universe. In Hugger Mugger, he's gone down to my home state of Georgia to solve a mystery--it doesn't really matter what the mystery is, frankly. Spenser's investigative technique is simple--he asks questions of people who in real life would never give him the information he seeks. From a bouncer at a gay bar he elucidates information about one of their patrons, and from a madam, he not only gains material about one of her prostitutes, but her clients as well--and not a penny changed hands. He finally manages to figure out that the villains of the piece are both the most and least obvious people, operating in collusion, and any halfway astute reader will be chapters ahead of him. The conclusion is totally ludicrous, with one of the villains &quot;luring&quot; Spenser to the most obvious of ambushes, and Spenser going along to ambush the nominal ambushers--somehow he neglects to inform the police, even though he has a perfectly decent contact with them. Frankly, it's just a poorly thought-out excuse for Spenser to shoot people, since he hasn't had such an opportunity to do so previously in this expedition. Whatever would a Spenser novel be without gunplay? He's no Miss Marple, but oddly enough Parker even includes an old-fashioned denoument after the flying bullets, in which Spenser confronts everyone involved in a single room and says who dunnit.<br />And the thing of it is, that in spite of a non-plot and a non-mystery and the most annoyingly stereotypical cast of characters--they've all stepped right off the plane from the set of Dallas--we don't really mind much. Spenser is about snappy dialogue, and it is light escapist reading without question. So pop open the lid, pour yourself a glass, and admire the quips bubbling to the top. It's less filling, and tastes, well, okay.ve all stepped right off the plane from the set of Dallas--we don't really mind much. Spenser is about snappy dialogue, and it is light escapist reading without question. So pop open the lid, pour yourself a glass, and admire the quips bubbling to the top. It's less filling, and tastes, well, okay.	2001-11-01
US	53011885	RWHR3BBQNFYBS	0316779237	383741816	Holidays on Ice: Stories	Books	3	3	9	N	N	Short Collection Overloaded With Cynicism	If you've read David Sedaris's writing before, you will be familiar with the tone of Holidays on Ice.  In fact, if you've read Barrel Fever, you've read two of these stories already, and if you've read Naked, you've read one other.  Out of six, three new stories is barely a compelling reason to shell out the bucks for this slender volume.  For those not yet familiar with Sedaris's style, he writes cynical and witty short stories.  They are often autobiographical (unusually in this tome half the stories are clearly fictional) and at their best full of piercingly true and hilarious observations of human nature.  Sedaris spares no one, least of all himself, and so although there is nothing of an explicitly graphic sexual nature here, this isn't the book to give to sweet old aunt Betsy as a stocking-stuffer.  Sedaris is matter-of-fact about his homosexuality and his drug use, and similarly about the sexual side of American life.  &quot;Dinah, the Christmas Whore&quot;, for example, is an uncommon Christmas tale.  Conservative readers who find themselves offended by the irreverence of the title should stay away, not only from Holidays on Ice, but all of Sedaris's writing.  Unquestionably the first story in this collection is also the best. In &quot;SantaLand Diaries&quot;, his on-the-job expose of life as a Macy's elf, Sedaris's customary cynicism is tempered, albeit only slightly, by an occasional touch of sentimentality.  The final three stories go to extremes to avoid such influence, and suffer greatly for it.  I find myself wearied by such non-stop cynicism.  The jaded outlook of these last stories is not alleviated by the fact that they clearly seek to parody that very outlook.  In &quot;Front Row Center with Thaddeus Bristol&quot; a theatre critic roasts three children's Christmas pagents, concluding with the line &quot;Is it just them, or am I missing something?&quot;  Fair enough, although not especially funny or profound, but then this is the sole point of most of the book.  Sedaris often seems eager to embrace sentimentality, but afraid that in so doing he will not seem sufficiently cosmopolitan.  Taken individually these stories are fine, but not representative of the author at his best.  As a collection I was rather disappointed.  My recommendation--buy Barrel Fever, Naked, and Me Talk Pretty One Day, and skip this one.of the book.  Sedaris often seems eager to embrace sentimentality, but afraid that in so doing he will not seem sufficiently cosmopolitan.  Taken individually these stories are fine, but not representative of the author at his best.  As a collection I was rather disappointed.  My recommendation--buy Barrel Fever, Naked, and Me Talk Pretty One Day, and skip this one.	2001-10-19
US	53011885	RKTJ6FWYOM5QE	0345386442	127417629	Red, Red Robin	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One of the Best Thrillers I've Read Yet	What makes one thriller about a crazed killer so much different from another?  Why do I want to advise you to rush out now and get your hands on a copy of Red, Red Robin any way you can, and encourage you to write Ballantine Books to persuade them to get this book back in print?  Although the plot is good, there are other, lesser books with similar plots--casual acquaintance becomes stalker becomes deranged killer isn't exactly a novelty.  Other writers write equally good characters, and an intensity of pacing has become standard in today's fiction.  But Red, Red Robin does all this and more.  Where Stephen Gallagher succeeds best is his focus--not on the single-minded cop who chases down the killer, nor on the maniacal lunatic himself, but on the victim.  Of course, in today's high-bodycount slasherfests of fiction, any novel based on the victim's point of view is likely to become a short-short story instead, but Gallagher sidesteps this trap deftly, instead apparently killing off the killer early on.  Of course this is a red herring (&quot;Why wasn't the book called Red, Red Herring?&quot;, I hear you ask) and we all know it.  Where an author like Dean Koontz would follow with an interminable and fairly mindless chase, Gallagher instead takes the opportunity to explore the consequences of the abduction and near-death upon his protagonist.  And here he excels as a writer, making us truly feel the uncertainty, the worthlessness, and the constant paralyzing fear of the victim long after any threat has passed.  For this, Red, Red Robin deserves a read.  So don't be a victim of bad marketing decisions yourself-- get off the web now and write that letter to the good people at Ballantine Books!	2001-10-02
US	53011885	R23KBJ8B1P5QF0	0375700730	496848842	The Island of the Colorblind	Books	3	20	22	N	N	A Neurologist in the South Pacific	This book is a hybrid; part Pacific island travelogue and part neurological exploration. Those of us who know Dr. Sacks's other works will recognize the latter as familiar territory while the former will be a new and somewhat unexpected area of reportage for him. And while colorblindness might not be as exotic as some of Sacks's previous neurological mysteries, the good doctor is able to make it equally fascinating, even introducing us to the concept of colorblind art--patterns created using brightness rather than chroma so that they can be readily seen by the colorblind, but incidentally are not readily discernable by others. And even more fascinating, and certainly much more horrifying, is the polymorphous disease lytico-bodig found on Guam. Sacks is at his best describing this illness, its symptoms, treatment, and the fruitless search for its root cause. The reader is gripped by the story of a single disease that manifests itself very differently in different patients. The &quot;lytico&quot; form is a progressive and eventually fatal paralysis. The &quot;bodig&quot; form a loss of muscular control similar to Parkinson's, with related dementia. The disease's victims are compassionately portrayed and their plight made real though Sacks' vivid writing.<br />But the very nature of the book may cause the reader problems. How can the travelogue parts compete with such a compelling medical story? Sacks concludes his work (with the exception of almost 100 pages of footnotes, journal citations, and bibliography!) with a brief account of his visit to Rota, (one of two of the titular Cycad Islands [Guam being the other]--although why Sacks didn't use the plural is a mystery), and here the interest is purely botanical. That the book begins with a travelogue and having set the stage gradually moves into the medical mysteries seems natural; that those mysteries are left unresolved (as they must of course, this not being a work of fiction) to rhapsodize about primitive plants seems bizarre. Sacks's comments are well written for the most part--the cycads lead him to experience a sensation of &quot;deep time&quot;, an appreciation for things ancient and &quot; a profound sense of being at home, a sort of companionship with the earth.&quot; But unless we share his botanical enthusiasm, we are likely to find the juxtaposition of the account of lytico-bodig and cycad reproduction (&quot;the pollen settles on the naked ovules and sends a tube down into them, within which the male germ cells, the spermatozooids, are produced...the spermatozooids, which are motile, powered by cilia, enter the egg cell and fuse with it totally...&quot;) a bizarre bit of post-modern prose.seems bizarre. Sacks's comments are well written for the most part--the cycads lead him to experience a sensation of &quot;deep time&quot;, an appreciation for things ancient and &quot; a profound sense of being at home, a sort of companionship with the earth.&quot; But unless we share his botanical enthusiasm, we are likely to find the juxtaposition of the account of lytico-bodig and cycad reproduction (&quot;the pollen settles on the naked ovules and sends a tube down into them, within which the male germ cells, the spermatozooids, are produced...the spermatozooids, which are motile, powered by cilia, enter the egg cell and fuse with it totally...&quot;) a bizarre bit of post-modern prose.	2001-10-02
US	53011885	RP2YK9WSJHEKF	1561450588	101707293	The Heart of a Distant Forest: A Novel (Modern Sthrn Clssc)	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Uncannily Accurate and Compelling Character Study	Having grown up not 50 miles from the setting of the Heart of a Distant Forest, I recognized the reality of the characters immediately. Philip Lee Williams' debut novel is a deeply insightful tale of a search for meaning at life's closing. The protagonist, Andrew Lachlan, is drawn with the finest pen, a beautifully captured representative of the academic Southern Gentleman. Lachlan finds himself betrayed by a body whose physical strength had been so important and perhaps more importantly, torn between a conservative heart and a liberal mind. Seeking acceptance and understanding of his life he retires to contemplate the end of his days in solitude. The novel is told as Lachlan's journal and is primarily a character study of this contradictory man, caught between his need for an almost paralyzing self-analysis and a desire to embrace life without regard for the consequences. Fear and love, intimacy and reserve, all do quiet battle for Lachlan's soul.	2001-10-02
US	53011885	R3DDOK75Z646I6	006105691X	114801696	Maskerade (Discworld )	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Phantom of the Opera Meets Bewitched	Terry Pratchett revisits Discworld yet again in this parody of the world of opera and music theatre. But herein lies his problem--the world of opera and music theatre may not be very well known to many of his readers. While The Phantom of the Opera will probably be a clearly recognizable basis for the plot, how many will understand the references that make similar Discworld novels so thoroughly funny? For example, Death tries to dispatch a swan, but before he goes the swan must sing for the one and only time in his life, which he refuses to do. Death challenges the swan's knowledge of operatic repertoire and tricks him into singing the Pedlar's song from Lohenshaak, which begins &quot;Schneide meinen eigenen Hals&quot;. Few will recognize the timely reference to Lohengren and its swans, and surely only German speakers will realise that the swan is tricked into singing the words &quot;cut my own neck.&quot; However, although some jokes are for aficionados only, others run the gamut from the over-obvious fat jokes through silliness (the Phantom writes out his maniacal laughter and uses 5 exclamation points!!!!!) to wry observation (the difference between opera and madness is &quot;better scenery&quot;; and the telling feature of good music, according to one critic, is that &quot;it's got blobs and curly bits all over it&quot;.) Prachett, in his most insightful observation, has one of his characters comment, &quot;The plots don't make sense! Half the stories rely on people not recognizing their servants or wives because they've got a tiny mask on! Large ladies play the part of consumptive girls! No one can act properly!...There should be a sign on the door saying 'Leave your common sense here'! If it wasn't for the music, the whole thing would be ridiculous!&quot;<br />Certainly if you haven't read Pratchett before, this is not the book to start with, and if you are looking for hard-core fantasy, this is not for you either. Discworld is a reflection of our own world, a vehicle to parody our own foibles. It is not a place for heroic quests and sorcerely legerdemain (music lovers looking for such are recommended Greg Bear's &quot;Songs of Earth and Power&quot;)--any tasks of daring-do are sure to go awry in as comical a fashion as possible. But for those in quest of a laugh, and without too refined a sense of humor, Discworld is a fine place to visit.a vehicle to parody our own foibles. It is not a place for heroic quests and sorcerely legerdemain (music lovers looking for such are recommended Greg Bear's &quot;Songs of Earth and Power&quot;)--any tasks of daring-do are sure to go awry in as comical a fashion as possible. But for those in quest of a laugh, and without too refined a sense of humor, Discworld is a fine place to visit.	2001-09-23
US	53011885	R40STN3JVNGQ5	0312269269	203976238	On a Beam of Light	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Fitting Sequel to an Excellent Novel	I read K-PAX almost a year ago, and enjoyed it very much.  In my Amazon review I gave the book 4 stars, and thought at the time that was an accurate reflection of its quality--I prefer to save a 5 star rating for only a very few works, and those of the highest artistic merit.  But in the intervening time K-PAX has stayed with me, unlike so much else I've read.  Gene Brewer's characters are compelling beyond description, and unique in the world of fiction.  The story, a fascinating blend of magical realism and psychiatric case study, delves deeply into the human condition, finding both gentle optimism and harsh reality.  In retrospect, K-PAX clearly deserved 5 stars.<br />On a Beam of Light however, is the second book of a projected trilogy--always a difficult challenge from the writer's perspective.  First books start the story, introducing characters and setting the themes and plot; third books bring the story to fruition, usually providing the climax of the entire trilogy.  But second books are development and must remain open-ended.  Brewer deftly places the reader within the world of his eponymous psychiatrist and the Manhattan Psychiatric Institute without too much awkward recapitulation from the first novel.  But necessarily his focus has changed.  Rather than concentrate on a further exploration of the character of prot, the personality of the alien from the planet K-PAX, Brewer examines prot's human host personality, Robert Porter.  Sensing deeper trauma still than the horrifying events uncovered in the first book, Brewer explores his patient's childhood for an explanation of prot's existence and savant-like abilities and Porter's profound problems.  Magical realism abounds here, too, as the reader is kept guessing about prot's Dr. Dolittle-esque ability to talk to animals, his phenomenal restorative powers for his fellow patients, his astronomical astronomical knowledge, and his peculiar ability to move from place to place on the titular beam of light.  While K-PAX seemed, for the most part, to resolve its dilemmas in favor of the reality with which we earthlings are most intimately acquainted, On a Beam of Light does no such thing--major questions are left dangling, clearly to be resolved (but which way?) in the next book.  I found On a Beam of Light not quite the equal of its predecessor--the revelations of Robert's past seemed rather too horrifyingly commonplace, and the resolution of one of the patient's problems (Lou, a transgendered man) required such a wild oversight on the staff's part that I found it unbelievable--but nonetheless an excellent book.  I eagerly await both the trilogy's final novel and the movie of K-PAX.hile K-PAX seemed, for the most part, to resolve its dilemmas in favor of the reality with which we earthlings are most intimately acquainted, On a Beam of Light does no such thing--major questions are left dangling, clearly to be resolved (but which way?) in the next book.  I found On a Beam of Light not quite the equal of its predecessor--the revelations of Robert's past seemed rather too horrifyingly commonplace, and the resolution of one of the patient's problems (Lou, a transgendered man) required such a wild oversight on the staff's part that I found it unbelievable--but nonetheless an excellent book.  I eagerly await both the trilogy's final novel and the movie of K-PAX.	2001-09-23
US	53011885	R16C9WT8ZCK7O	0028630734	966062584	The Unofficial Guide? to Hawaii (Unofficial Guides)	Books	3	17	17	N	N	Well, No.	Although the book touts itself as giving readers &quot;the inside story&quot; on Hawaii--everything from shopping to volcanoes, from our experience there's no truly remarkable reporting.  The descriptions are fairly accurate, albeit not over-critical, but I have to agree completely with the reviewer from LA who states that this is very much standard fare.  Okay, so &quot;Dr. Beach&quot; says that such-and-such is one of the best 10 beaches in America, how is that &quot;unofficial&quot;, and how does that reflect what the author thinks?  Tominaga relies far too much on the offical line--publicity available in every hotel lobby about the attractions--and not enough on his own experience.  Perhaps his comments on islands other than Oahu are more meaningful, but if you can get to Hawaii, a  good concierge will do as much or more for you.  There is so much more that Hawaii has to offer that isn't included here--probably a book isn't the best way to get this information anyway.  On the positive side, the &quot;Unofficial Guide&quot; formula for rating things according to age group is very helpful.	2001-09-18
US	53011885	R3D6D5GM4O73OU	0307203123	617201619	My Little Book About God	Books	5	65	77	N	N	It's Little, It's a Book, and It's About God.	Truth in advertising, what more could you ask for? My Little Book About God is indeed little, and avoids taking any particular dogmatic approach. God is not described as an old man in the sky, nor are any particular religions held to be true to the detriment of others. Simply put, God is presented as great and loving, no more. Comparisons between the child's world and God's make these points explicit. Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, Zoraster, Joseph Smith and the like never make so much as a cameo, and on this basis perhaps some will find the book too bland. But after all, it isn't My Little Book About How My Religion Is Right and Yours Isn't And You Are Going To Burn For All Eternity Because You Are An Infidel. Certainly devout atheists will find the book objectionable, but there is even room for secular humanists (God might literally be Love, and not a separate, intelligent presence at all) in in this approach. Hopefully most will find it a message of tolerance and love from which their children will benefit--two qualities that are far too rare in today's troubled times.	2001-09-18
US	53011885	R1SKQRZ3PY0WI0	0262232065	644369074	The Origins of Music (Bradford Books)	Books	4	40	44	N	N	Fascinating and Challenging Approaches to a Difficult Topic	\\"The Origins of Music\\" derives from a 1997 international workshop of the Swedish Institute for Biomusicology.  The result is a fascinating journey into a vast world of ideas, with interplay, disagreement and contradiction abounding.  Few readers will have the background to move easily through all these articles. However, wading through the quagmire of scientific writing rewards the reader with some remarkable insights.  Little is actually proven, and the editors could have done more to reconcile or enumerate the contradictions between some of the approaches.  But for the most part, the writers are sufficiently aware of the difficulties involved in applying their specific research results to general theories about the origins of music.<br />An introductory chapter discusses the comparatively new field of biomusicology, with its tripartite subdivision into evolutionary musicology, neuromusicology, and comparative musicology.  The issue, which will command much of the book, of whether certain features of music are biological or cultural is raised.  Unfortunately, all too often the weight is given to the biological answer without overwhelming evidence.<br />Another significant question is the relevance of animal \\"song\\".  Only those working directly in the field of animal song approach this with caution--none argue anything stronger than a  \\"convergent evolution\\" between animal and human music.  To apply the terms \\"song\\" and \\"music\\" to aural animal communications is to raise a whole host of related but probably irrelevant associations--those of art, aesthetics, etc.  Where music is so broadly defined as to include animal sounds (which can indeed be \\"musical\\" and quite lovely for us to listen to without being classified as \\"music\\") these associations muddy the water, and all too often the contributors simply accept these problematic issues.  One writer even wallows in them--in the book's final article, composer Mache absurdly claims that birdsong can ONLY be explained as an aesthetic act.  We unquestionably have very limited understanding of how even the human brain processes our own music; that we have even less understanding of how animals perceive their own sounds and how their brains process them makes any statement about any complicated animal response speculative at best. Slater's chapter is noteworthy as he addresses this very issue of relevance with commendable caution: \\"Considering only songbirds...there are close to 4,000 species....It would thus not be surprising if almost any characteristic found in human music were discovered in one or a few of them.  But such similarities are likely to be coincidental...\\"<br />Articles on human evolution of musical potential are fascinating explorations of real evidence.  Although of course music does not fossilize, these scientists have taken various ingenious approaches from the thorough examination of a Paleolithic bone flute to the casting of brains inside fossil skulls to examine their gross anatomy, and the results are couched in appropriate language.  Richman, in his wildly speculative theory of music origins, resorts to quite poor reasoning (\\"...complexity always comes from previous, but different complexity.\\" and \\"...language always comes from previous language.\\").  Similar points are articulated more thoughtfully in the subsequent chapter by Merker.  Equally intriguing is Miller's, in which he argues convincingly that a Darwinian approach to the issue of musical evolution allows only the single explanation of sexual selection.  His colleague Todd supports this hypothesis in his article on computer modeling of musical behavior.  In perhaps the most interesting contradiction in the book, Dissanayake takes a totally different approach, arguing equally convincingly (although smothered in jargon) that musical evolution most likely occurred as an outgrowth of mother-infant interaction.  Finally, Freeman suggests that music evolved to fulfil a sociological role of group bonding.  These four articles, by Freeman, Dissanayake, Todd, and Merker are superbly argued and maintain the highest standards of intellectual rigor; curiously they come to wildly different but equally reasonable conclusions on the origins of music, thereby highlighting the difficulties of the issues.<br />In the final section, the musicians get their turn, and as a composer myself I'm sorry to say that my colleagues' results are relatively disappointing.  Trehub attempts to find musical universals by studying the behavior of infants.  This leads her to the conclusion that \\"small-integer frequency ratios\\" are \\"preferable\\" (such as 2:1 and 3:2--the perfect octave and fifth) to large-integer ratios (the ONLY example she gives is 45:32--the tritone).  She concludes that \\"dissonances\\" are not naturally a part of an inherent universal musicality, but her argument shows no apparent understanding of the issues. Imberty's contribution is largely a defense of Lerdahl and Jackendoff's Generative Theory of Tonal Music, and although he makes some excellent points, especially about atonal music, the reader unfamiliar with Lerdahl and Jackendoff's work will find little of value here.  The eminent ethnomusicologist Nettl suggests a number of likely musical universals, some of which I must contend against: among them are the presence of an undefined cadential element (as music exists in time and must end, this seems to me inevitable and inconsequential unless further defined), and, that music exists only as particular songs, compositions, etc--that \\"one does not ever just sing or play, as for example, one may simply dance, without performing a particular dance composition.\\" (wildly incorrect, as any jazzer, mother or Deadhead will attest!)  However, Nettl raises valid concerns about the concept of musical universals--I regretted that his contribution wasn't much earlier in the book as it seemed so appropriate to so many of the claims made within. Finally, composer Mache provides what is surely the least intellectually rigorous, most romantically speculative chapter. Mache based much of his workshop contribution on recorded comparisons between various human and animal musics to which the reader has no exposure.  It is a real pity that for this article and several others no CD was included.  Regardless, Mache's concept of a truly universal biological music including an aesthetic sense ignores historical fact and convergent evolution in favor of an interspecies brotherhood of musicians.  However attractive the idea, the International Federation of Musicians is unlikely to start issuing cards to avian and simian members any time soonThese four articles, by Freeman, Dissanayake, Todd, and Merker are superbly argued and maintain the highest standards of intellectual rigor; curiously they come to wildly different but equally reasonable conclusions on the origins of music, thereby highlighting the difficulties of the issues.<br />In the final section, the musicians get their turn, and as a composer myself I'm sorry to say that my colleagues' results are relatively disappointing.  Trehub attempts to find musical universals by studying the behavior of infants.  This leads her to the conclusion that \\"small-integer frequency ratios\\" are \\"preferable\\" (such as 2:1 and 3:2--the perfect octave and fifth) to large-integer ratios (the ONLY example she gives is 45:32--the tritone).  She concludes that \\"dissonances\\" are not naturally a part of an inherent universal musicality, but her argument shows no apparent understanding of the issues. Imberty's contribution is largely a defense of Lerdahl and Jackendoff's Generative Theory of Tonal Music, and although he makes some excellent points, especially about atonal music, the reader unfamiliar with Lerdahl and Jackendoff's work will find little of value here.  The eminent ethnomusicologist Nettl suggests a number of likely musical universals, some of which I must contend against: among them are the presence of an undefined cadential element (as music exists in time and must end, this seems to me inevitable and inconsequential unless further defined), and, that music exists only as particular songs, compositions, etc--that \\"one does not ever just sing or play, as for example, one may simply dance, without performing a particular dance composition.\\" (wildly incorrect, as any jazzer, mother or Deadhead will attest!)  However, Nettl raises valid concerns about the concept of musical universals--I regretted that his contribution wasn't much earlier in the book as it seemed so appropriate to so many of the claims made within. Finally, composer Mache provides what is surely the least intellectually rigorous, most romantically speculative chapter. Mache based much of his workshop contribution on recorded comparisons between various human and animal musics to which the reader has no exposure.  It is a real pity that for this article and several others no CD was included.  Regardless, Mache's concept of a truly universal biological music including an aesthetic sense ignores historical fact and convergent evolution in favor of an interspecies brotherhood of musicians.  However attractive the idea, the International Federation of Musicians is unlikely to start issuing cards to avian and simian members any time soon	2001-08-31
US	53011885	R1ULPQFN6RI5X1	0316693251	319187092	Roses Are Red (Alex Cross)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Open Letter to James Patterson	Dear Mr. Patterson,<br />Congratulations, your fans really enjoy your Alex Cross series.  You've created one of the most interesting and human protagonists in modern crime fiction, and you have a way with creating equally fascinating villains, too.  Cross is terrific, and reading about his family life and the warmth, love, and compassion he has makes a wonderful contrast to the depravity of killers like Gary Soneji.<br />But what gives?  You seem to be telling the same story over and over--you've done the paired serial killers several times, and now in Roses Are Red you've done little more than rehash Along Came a Spider.  Are you out of ideas, that not one, but two quasi-red-herrings are inevitable?  And the similarities between the mysteries of these two books--that the outcome is so very similar is discouraging indeed.  I hesitate to say more, for fear of giving away the identity of the Mastermind, but anyone who's seen or read Along Came a Spider recently is going to find the situation unpleasantly familiar.<br />Please, Mr. Patterson, stop rehashing the same story.  The least obvious person is not always the best choice for the bad guy. I wrote a little poem for you:<br />Roses are red, Violets are blue; As far as who's the killer You've got a lot of explaining to do.<br />It may not scan too well, but the sentiment is there.  Characterisations are your strength, and the plot twists are sometimes simply embarrassing.  See how many reviews here found this one unbelievable.  I thoroughly enjoyed Roses, until the final sentence.<br />Wishing you the best,<br />Chris Coleman	2001-08-09
US	53011885	R27SCJHWSQFQJ7	0446608165	349169932	A Walk Through the Fire	Books	3	0	1	N	N	The fire's out, only ashes remain.	I have to admit never having read any of the other Sharon McCone series, nor have I read anything else by Marcia Muller (if indeed there is anything else).  But I do enjoy detective fiction as entertaining reading, and I'm certainly not adverse to female detectives, thoroughly enjoying PI's from V.I. Warshawski to Stephanie Plum.<br />So apart from the expected issues of coming in late in a long-established series (the newcomer can't expect all the characterisation to start from scratch, and relationships and other details are often simply glossed to avoid boring the long-time followers) I had every reason to expect to enjoy this book.  A writer doesn't often manage to get to a twenty-second book in a series without being reasonably articulate and entertaining (although Don Pendelton and the Mack Bolan series is definitely proof that this is a very fallible assumption).  I'm sorry to report that while McCone and Miller are indeed reasonably articulate, they are certainly not (in this novel) exceptionally entertaining.  Plot and characteristation were workmanlike at best, and there simply wasn't a lot here to hold the reader's attention.  Miller seemed to be counting on the exotic locale of Hawaii to overcome the mundane story; but the 50th state is hardly exotic anymore to those of us who grew up on Hawaii Five-0 and it's followers.  The romantic side-story never quite came together, either.  McCone is supposed to be torn between her main squeeze and a handsome helicopter pilot, but we have no understanding about what the big attraction is to the new guy.  Miller seems to prefer understatement--and it's just as well that there's no torrid sex in this novel--but A Walk Through the Fire is so understated that it failed almost entirely to interest me.	2001-08-09
US	53011885	RQPY7KSCHWDXE	0446608165	349169932	A Walk Through the Fire	Books	3	1	1	N	N	The fire's out, only ashes remain.	I have to admit never having read any of the other Sharon McCone series, nor have I read anything else by Marcia Muller (if indeed there is anything else).  But I do enjoy detective fiction as entertaining reading, and I'm certainly not adverse to female detectives, thoroughly enjoying PI's from V.I. Warshawski to Stephanie Plum.<br />So apart from the expected issues of coming in late in a long-established series (the newcomer can't expect all the characterisation to start from scratch, and relationships and other details are often simply glossed to avoid boring the long-time followers) I had every reason to expect to enjoy this book.  A writer doesn't often manage to get to a twenty-second book in a series without being reasonably articulate and entertaining (although Don Pendelton and the Mack Bolan series is definitely proof that this is a very fallible assumption).  I'm sorry to report that while McCone and Miller are indeed reasonably articulate, they are certainly not (in this novel) exceptionally entertaining.  Plot and characteristation were workmanlike at best, and there simply wasn't a lot here to hold the reader's attention.  Miller seemed to be counting on the exotic locale of Hawaii to overcome the mundane story; but the 50th state is hardly exotic anymore to those of us who grew up on Hawaii Five-0 and it's followers.  The romantic side-story never quite came together, either.  McCone is supposed to be torn between her main squeeze and a handsome helicopter pilot, but we have no understanding about what the big attraction is to the new guy.  Miller seems to prefer understatement--and it's just as well that there's no torrid sex in this novel--but A Walk Through the Fire is so understated that it failed almost entirely to interest me.	2001-08-09
US	53011885	R1CBN4LIEUTC24	0451159993	308474223	The Rats	Books	2	2	5	N	N	Exercise in Mediocrity	Herbert is a British writer, and like many of his literary countrymen, generally adopts understatement as his prefered method of delivery.  While there are hundreds of thousands of murderous rats in this novel, and plenty of people are killed horribly, Herbert doesn't quite seem to take the same gruesome delight in the exquisite details as one of his American colleagues like Stephen King might, and he certainly cuts to the chase much quicker--The Rats isn't quite 200 pages, whereas King or Koontz could stretch a similar tale to over 500 without breaking a sweat.  But Herbert's greater economy doesn't necessarily make him the better storyteller--The Rats is an extremely average horror story.  Yes, there are rats; yes, they are giant mutant rats (but thankfully not vampiric, as one of the other critics seemed to imply); yes, they swarm by the thousands and attack humans with malicious intent, especially enjoying the flesh of infants; yes, they are the spawn of a mad scientist's experiments with radioactive mutants; yes, there is the obligatory twist at the end which any horror reader will have come to expect; yes, every other chapter offers up fresh meat whose pathetic lives almost call out for extermination; yes, Our Hero is at every important attack and eventually saves the day with a plan that England's top scientists couldn't have figured out.  No, the whole thing isn't very interesting at all.  Maybe in Britain in the 70s this might have been a good read, but it isn't today.  Save your time, save your money, save your cheese.	2001-07-15
US	53011885	R3SJI8P8CXC0TT	0553801341	255570129	From the Corner of His Eye	Books	1	41	56	N	N	VERBAL DIARRHEA	I used to be a fan of Dean Koontz and always looked forward to a new Koontz book, but no more.  He went through a bad period, writing several very long books that simply amounted to a chase and a single climactic scene, and while the characters were interesting enough, the stories often weren't.  Then, with Seize the Night and Fear Nothing, he found his strength again--both the stories and the characterizations were fascinating.  But in From the Corner of His Eye, Koontz has reverted to his bad habits.  This might have made a good 200 page book, but my paperback copy is 729 pages long.  Koontz desperately needs a forceful editor.<br />How on Earth can a story be so badly written? First, the thesaurus approach.  Here the idea is to consult a thesaurus and use every available synonym: &quot;Ferocious pirates, ruthless secret agents, brain-eating aliens from distant galaxies, supercriminals  hellbent on ruling the world, bloodthirsty vampires, face-gnawing werewolves, savage Gestapo thugs, mad scientists, satanic cultists, insane carnival freaks, hate-crazed Ku Klux Klansmen, knife-worshiping thrill killers, and emotionless robot soldiers from other planets has slashed, stabbed, burned, shot, gouged, torn, clubbed, crushed, stomped, hanged, bitten, eviscerated, beheaded, poisoned, drowned, radiated, blown up, mangled, mutilated, and tortured uncounted victims in the pulp magazines that Paul had been reading since childhood.&quot; (p. 651)  What, no defenestration?!  Second, give details of every character, no matter how removed from the story: &quot;Selma Galloway, retired from a professorship years earlier, had subsequently retired further, taking advantage of the equity in her long-owned home to buy a little condo on the beach in nearby Carlsbad.&quot; (p. 671)  Would you believe that neither Selma Galloway nor her financial plans occur anywhere else in the novel?  Every detail of this sentence, from the character's name to her occupation and her ultimate place of residence, is completely irrelevant to the story--the only point is that the house next door to a certain character was available for sale.  Third, complete travel itineraries are a must: &quot;From San Francisco south to Orange County Airport on a crowded commuter flight, then farther south along the coast by rental car, Paul Damascus brought Grace, Celestina, and Angel to the Lampion house.&quot; (p. 646)  What a shame the flight was crowded--if he'd chartered a plane they could have gone more directly and in comfort.  Fourth, use plenty of descriptions that seem to qualify for the Bulwer-Lytton Contest for worst sentence, &quot;Winter night, wound in scarfs of fog, like a leprous mendicant, rattled out a breath as though begging their attention beyond the glass.&quot; (p. 493).  Fifth, be sure to give meaningful Biblical names to all your characters, so your readers are sure which ones are good (Bartholomew, Angel, Grace, Celestina, Seraphim, and even Paul Damascus!) and bad (Enoch Cain).  Sixth, give your hideous killer fun quirks so that he's clearly distinguishable from every other fictional killer--Cain has the amusing tendency to develop hilarious illnesses such as vomiting, diarrhea, and boils after he kills his victims.  Seventh, make sure that your story is meaningful--be sure to put in deep philosophical undercurrents, but be sure not to make them too difficult for the average thriller reader.  Especially important is that bad guys are stupid and good guys are smart.  Eighth, make sure you put lots and lots and lots of foreshadowing in your book, so that when you actually get around to the event foreshadowed, your readers aren't thrown by the unexpected.  Also, make sure there is lots more foreshadowing than the actual event itself, especially if that event is the climactic showdown between good and evil.<br />The list goes on and on, but frankly I've lost heart in this review--the book is so bad on so many levels that there is no challenge in so demonstrating.  Koontz has lost me as a fan, and I regret that.  But his writing has become so overblown and shows so little self-control that I'm no longer interested.  Koontz's killer developed diarrhea after he killed, but Koontz's verbal diarrhea has killed my anticipation of his future work.rating.  Koontz has lost me as a fan, and I regret that.  But his writing has become so overblown and shows so little self-control that I'm no longer interested.  Koontz's killer developed diarrhea after he killed, but Koontz's verbal diarrhea has killed my anticipation of his future work.	2001-07-08
US	53011885	R1P8VDVWGIF5SS	0451192036	730789518	Black Like Me	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Cry For Compassion	I grew up in the south (Atlanta and Athens, GA) in the 60's and 70's, went to public schools in which we had serious racial tension, and I've only now just read John Howard Griffin's outstanding book of investigative reporting, Black Like Me.  I honestly don't understand why this book was not required reading in my junior high school; in fact, it would be a service to America even today to make it required reading for everyone.  Living in the suburbs and going to newly integrated schools, black rage was inexplicable, unavoidable, and terrifying to my friends and I, but this book would have helped us by giving us a real context.  There will always be minds closed to the truths presented here, but if a more vital call for compassion toward those who seem different to us but are united in humanity exists, I don't know what it might be.  And herein lies the true worth of this book--not only that it documents the constant oppression of blacks in the South under segregation, but also that it documents the distances that build up between any oppressor and oppressed.  Black Like Me makes completely clear that the oppressed of any class, race, ethnicity, religious orientation, sexual orientation, etc., cannot &quot;rise above the problem&quot; without a lessening of that oppression; and that even the best willed of the oppressors are scarcely able to even recognize the extent of the problem.  The mythologizing of the &quot;other&quot; so overwhelms our commonalties that they are almost completely obscured.  Although many whites in the deepest South spoke of blacks as &quot;subhuman&quot; (or at best did not speak out against such grotesque characterizations) Griffin documents the fact that many blacks in the segregated South were astonishingly and universally civil toward one another, sharing what little they had with complete strangers.  This generosity of spirit was practically unknown to most whites who had no real point of contact with the black community, as black relationships with one another were decidedly different than black-white relationships.<br />Although the story of Griffin's changing his skin color to live as a black man in the south is totally compelling, ultimately I regretted that it wasn't longer or more detailed.  Griffin was an absolutely extraordinary man, yet entirely human himself, and occasionally when situations turned too extreme he felt it necessary to retreat.  At one point Griffin decides that he must go to Mississippi and so he gets to Hattiesburg immediately after a Mississippi county court rules against indicting anyone for the kidnapping from jail and lynching of a black man accused of a crime in spite of evidence gathered by the FBI.  Once there, Griffin immediately finds the tension intolerable, the constant threat of violence overwhelming, and the degradation absolute.  Rather than sticking with the story he calls a white friend and stays with him for a few days, then leaves.  I can't fault him personally for this decision, and it certainly speaks to the horrifying environment in which he found himself, but a chance for some important journalism was missed.  Similarly, the book feels truncated--after visiting Atlanta (which came off rather well at least in comparison, I'm pleased to say) Griffin winds up the project rather abruptly.  He continues to suffer the consequences of his project for some time, facing threats and ostracism from his white neighbors to the point that he and his parents move elsewhere.<br />Griffin rather casually dropped in some shocking autobiographical statements without any follow-up: &quot;when I was blind&quot;--he was blinded in a bombardment and his impairment lasted for 10 years;  and &quot;It reminded me of the nagging, focusless terror we felt in Europe when Hitler began his marches, the terror of talking with Jews (and our deep shame of it).&quot;--he's not writing in the abstract. as he worked in Resistance France helping rescue Jews.  Perhaps Griffin's humilitycauses him to omit some of these details, but I would have liked to have understood Griffin himself a bit more, to have known how he came to the decision to live as a black man.  Regardless of its minor faults, Black Like Me, a veritable cry for compassion toward one another, is a true &quot;must-read&quot;--it has my very highest recommendation.causes him to omit some of these details, but I would have liked to have understood Griffin himself a bit more, to have known how he came to the decision to live as a black man.  Regardless of its minor faults, Black Like Me, a veritable cry for compassion toward one another, is a true &quot;must-read&quot;--it has my very highest recommendation.	2001-06-14
US	53011885	R2GEXWTQ3GG7E2	0451202112	249904333	Wake of the Perdido Star	Books	3	3	6	N	N	The pintles were sprung from the gudgeons!	Let me start by qualifying my review--I'm not ordinarily a big fan of seagoing adventure tales and would not have read Wake of the Perdido Star if it had not been given to me as a gift. I don't wear an eyepatch, don't have a hook, a parrot or a pegleg, don't go around drinking grog and saying &quot;Arrr, mateys!&quot; and have never buckled a swash as far as I know. So I'm obviously not the ideal reviewer for this book, but nevertheless...<br />I guess that his experiences filming The Poseidon Adventure and Crimson Tide got into Gene Hackman's blood, as Wake of the Perdido Star is full of every seaman's cliche conceivable. One character does end up with a hook (no eyepatches, thankfully), the captain has premonitions of his own death, there's plenty of Jolly Rogers and piracy and cannonshot and shipwrecks and fathoms and beautiful native girls and evil Spaniards and noble British and Americans and topsails and broadsides and press gangs and fantails and even a letter of marquee, with the whole thing tied together in the tale of a young man out to avenge the death of his father. About the only thing that doesn't happen is a shark attack--maybe they are saving that for the sequel. However, that doesn't make it a bad book, just entirely predictable. Clearly the authors know their seamanship--Hackman's coauthor has impeccable credentials in this regard--but they don't always fill in the reader in a timely fashion, probably expecting him to either know the terms already or care enough to look them up. I'm sorry to admit that I didn't, and when I read the sentence I've used for my title, I couldn't help but think that it sounded like a Dr. Seuss version of The Night Before Christmas: The pintles were sprung from the gudgeons with care/in the hopes that Saint Nicholas soon would be there!&quot; Not for several hundred more pages (literally) do Hackman and Lenihan tell us what pintles and gudgeons actually are, and the truth is that it doesn't really matter even then.<br />Wake of the Perdido Star is the perfect beach book for those who prefer their beach books without any hint of erotic character whatsoever. The writing is workmanlike--the tale solid and familiar, and if the book gets washed away by a freak wave it is no great loss.>Wake of the Perdido Star is the perfect beach book for those who prefer their beach books without any hint of erotic character whatsoever. The writing is workmanlike--the tale solid and familiar, and if the book gets washed away by a freak wave it is no great loss.	2001-06-13
US	53011885	R20YO0S8Q22NDR	0934601569	509016409	Slow Dance in Autumn: A Hank Prince Mystery Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Worth a look, but don't hold your breath for a sequel	Philip Lee Williams is a fine author who specialises in introspective characters who find themselves somewhat unexpectedly at points of closure in their lives.  His novels are flavored with nostalgia and regret, hopes and expectations unattained.<br />Slow Dance in Autumn is Williams' shot at a detective story--although displayed rather prominently on the cover are the words &quot;A Hank Prince Mystery Novel&quot; as though it were one in a series, it should more accurately say &quot;The Hank Prince Mystery Novel&quot;, given that after some 13 years another has not appeared.  Prince is a wise-guy almost-was baseball player turned hard-drinking, hard-smoking PI facing hard times; he's intelligent but not overly competent in the dectecting trade.  For me, the character was rather too familiar--true, we haven't had many fictional PI's in Atlanta, but that is scarcely unusual.  And that in the author's note before the novel begins Williams inadvertently gives an enormous clue to the puzzle Prince faces ruined quite a bit of the suspense.<br />With these caveats, Slow Dance in Autumn is a perfectly good detective story, but it didn't quite capture my imagination the way Williams' extraordinary other novels have, like All The Western Stars, Crossing Wildcat Ridge, or The Heart of a Distant Forest, all of which I most highly recommend.  But Slow Dance in Autumn is not to be written off entirely--Williams has some very good lines, including perhaps the most intriguing line in detective fiction ever written: &quot;The stretch of I-20 between Atlanta and Birmingham is like being stranded somewhere between Murmansk and Vladivostok with a phonetic alphabet book, no rubles and an empty bottle of vodka.&quot;  Raymond Chandler must be rolling in his grave wishing he'd written that!	2001-06-10
US	53011885	R5IB9EN2D01CN	0812524829	316891420	Slant: A Novel	Books	5	16	19	N	N	A complicated book that makes heavy demands on the reader	I agree completely with those critics who have written of the difficulty of getting involved with this book.  Greg Bear is obviously not afraid to make substantial demands on his readers, but rightfully so, in my opinion.  The first six chapters (72 pages) introduce a large number of seemingly unrelated characters--the course of the novel will see them interact eventually, but that does not happen for quite some time, and the reader is left wondering where the book is going.  That the story takes completely unexpected paths repeatedly was one of its delights for me--I can honestly say that it was totally unpredictable and convincing nonetheless.  Further demands on the reader are made with the use of future vocabulary--Bear condescends to no one with lengthy explanations of the terms the characters use, preferring to let us figure them out in context as best we can.  This quality and complexity of writing, along with Bear's deeply grim vision of the future, reminded me of John Brunner's novel Stand on Zanzibar.  Slant is an exploration of a world driven by the twin forces of nanotechnology and mental therapy, and Bear seems uncannily precognisant of the issues that are likely to arise.  Thus sex, Hollywood, the military, politics, religion and personal freedom are all involved in one of the most sophisticated and well-thought out plots I've read in years.  Quotes from a future book, Alive Contains a Lie (reminiscent of Brunner's The Hipcrime Vocab) allow Bear to get a bit preachy at times, moralizing as events allow: &quot;Conservative elitists rule much of modern religion, making it a branch of the Entertainment State.  So sayeth the evangelistic moneychanger in the dataflow temple: Money can buy peace and salvation!  Good works count for nothing against an ever-growing pile of status.  Conservatism is not about tradition and morality, hasn't been for many decades...It is about money and the putative biological and spiritual superiority of the wealthy.&quot;  To be fair, liberals come in for an equally harsh treatment--in fact, Bear's depressingly disturbing future vision is clearly a result of the clash of values between conservatism and liberalism and the failure of a humanistic approach to life. If you are unafraid to engage the world of ideas and willing to pay the cost, Slant is a marvelous book, and I highly recommend it.  (Although Slant is technically a sequel to Queen of Angels, one need not have read the previous book to understand Slant, although there are a few references to prior events, and certain characters return.)  If, instead, you prefer light entertainment, go rent a video of Men in Black.fair, liberals come in for an equally harsh treatment--in fact, Bear's depressingly disturbing future vision is clearly a result of the clash of values between conservatism and liberalism and the failure of a humanistic approach to life. If you are unafraid to engage the world of ideas and willing to pay the cost, Slant is a marvelous book, and I highly recommend it.  (Although Slant is technically a sequel to Queen of Angels, one need not have read the previous book to understand Slant, although there are a few references to prior events, and certain characters return.)  If, instead, you prefer light entertainment, go rent a video of Men in Black.	2001-06-10
US	53011885	RMW6EYZFWPMFE	0786916001	250904412	The Thran (Magic, The Gathering)	Books	3	6	11	N	N	Successful but ensanguine tome	It behooves a parent to check in occasionally with his or her children, and find out what they are reading, listening to, watching, and doing.  Not only to help keep them out of trouble, but also so that they can have a decent conversation once in a while with the person who is going to be borrowing the car all too soon.  In this spirit I started playing the card game Magic: The Gathering, upon which this book is based, and in the same spirit I read THE BROTHERS' WAR and I have enjoyed them both thoroughly.  Magic is a wonderfully imaginative game, one that is constantly changing and much more interesting than any shoot-em-up video game.  I admit to trepidation when I saw the series of books based on a card game, as I was afraid that the whole series would be nothing but an advertisement for the game--something like: &quot;Suddenly Uzra pulled out his Urza's Orb, but Mishra tapped his mana and shattered the Orb into tiny pieces with a lightning blast before Urza was able to use it!  'Oh, no!' shouted Urza, 'I curse you with a Soul Burn! '&quot; Fortunately that was not to be--Jeff Grubb did a commendable job and although the book is not faultless, it stands on its own fairly successfully and isn't a blatantly obvious marketing ploy.  Unlike most series, though, the Magic: The Gathering books are by different authors--even books within a single &quot;cycle&quot; are so.  My expectations were guardedly high when I turned to this prequel to THE BROTHERS' WAR, THE THRAN by J. Robert King.  Like the earlier book, THE THRAN follows the card game's storyline--how odd it must be for an author to have to follow a plot so thoroughly worked out by others, without the possibility of revision--and it, too, manages to be much more than an advertisement for the game.  Certainly it fills in the &quot;history&quot; of Dominaria, and the story is told with a fine sense of irony and contextual realism.  Only rarely will the reader unfamiliar with the game scratch their head in puzzlement and say, &quot;Why is THAT there?&quot;  At the same time, gamers will have a bit of an extra thrill when they recognize allusions that others will miss--rather like adults who watch Sesame Street.  But altogether unlike Sesame Street, THE THRAN is filled with gore.  It reads like a veritable thesaurus of carnage, viscera, and butchery.  Well-written and with an admirable vocabulary, the bloodthirsty details are unpleasantly unrelenting and will upset certain readers.  Most Magic players are surely inured to this level of violence, but their parents may have some concern about what sometimes seems like an adolescent AMERICAN PSYCHO.  The reason for all these entrails and dismembered limbs is a realistic depiction of evil (within the context of fantasy, of course), personified in the character Yawgmoth--a postmodern, post-Kymer Rouge view of a force all too human and banal, but inexorably relentless.  This abattoir of a book is dedicated to the memory of Soviet composer Dmitri Shostakovich, &quot;who survived a real-life Yawgmoth&quot;.  Although no more is said of this, the reference is of course to Joseph Stalin, Lenin's successor and the mass butcher of the USSR.  But the character Yawgmoth bears a stronger resemblance to Adolf Hitler--after exile or imprisonment, both came to power on the strength of their own personality and ability to pander to and manipulate mob psychology; both attempted to create a &quot;master race&quot; and sadistically engaged in truly horrifying biological &quot;experiments&quot; against their opponents.  And both pursued the total destruction of other races and peoples under the guise of a benevolent concern for their own.  Where readers will understand this exploration of depravity, and where the fantastic setting distances it enough for lengthy contemplation of its consequences by younger readers the book is all to the good; but those readers who simply revel in the slaughter need a trip to the Holocaust museum.  Hesitantly recommended.mmended.	2001-05-06
US	53011885	R3CQKTGDYIVW3P	0446609404	95144783	Cradle and All	Books	2	6	8	N	N	Bad novel!  Why?  Why? Why?	Chapter One:<br />Thriller writer Patterson sat down at the keyboard, the light from the monitor glinting off the steely highlights in his hair as his fingers danced lightly across the keys.  He'd just finished a harrowing three-page chapter, a full page longer than many of the chapters in the book, and was now well into a second three-page chapter following in immediate succession.  What was this force that was driving him so?  What could it be? His brow furrowed in concentration as he typed &quot;I'm sorry, Kathy!  Oh, God, I'm so sorry for what I did! I'm so sorrrr-eeeee!&quot; Concern filled Patterson's face as he wondered whether he'd used enough exclamation points, and enough &quot;e&quot;s.  How many &quot;e&quot;s would a drunken teenager under the influence of Satan call out as he plunged to his firey death?<br />That was it, he simply couldn't sustain the effort much longer.  Time for this chapter to end, too.  As a trickle of sweat rolled down his brow, he typed &quot;Chapter 63&quot;.  He needed the relief of a two-page chapter, but as he began, he typed almost feverishly.  Using italics was a daring method to portray the mysterious voice--was it the Voice of Satan?  And suddenly, he was struck with a flash of brilliance.  Yes, THIS was why he'd become a writer--this glorious power, this majesty.  He typed, in italics, &quot;And that's not good for the babeee!&quot;  Chills ran up and down his spine as he realised that he'd just made a stylistic allusion to the ending of the other chapter, with the exclamation point and repeated &quot;e&quot;!<br />It seemed perfect!<br />Chapter Two:<br />In Hong Kong, I put the book aside in despair.  Although no one was watching me, and no birds were flocking menacingly, I had the strangest feeling that the writer James Patterson was actually two different people.  How could the author of those divinely terrific books KISS THE GIRLS and ALONG CAME A SPIDER also be the writer of such infernal drivel as SEE HOW THEY RUN and CRADLE AND ALL?  I could almost figure it out, but it kept eluding me.  Why?  Why?  Why?  Why, in a book with 350 pages of text, were chapters on an average only 3 pages long, thus leaving only about 240 pages of actual text, counting the opening and ending margins of each chapter?  Oh, the horrible loss of trees in the production of a book of this kind!  And why, why did Patterson write the book with such a peculiar point-of-view, alternating wildly between the first person for one of the characters in about a third of the chapters, and the third person for the remainder of the book?  Why make so many repeated allusions to what will happen in the rest of the book that instead of being filled with a sense of foreboding, the reader is filled first with a sense of irritation, then despair, and finally indifference?  What could the reason be?<br />There must be a reason, and whatever the reason, it must be bad...really bad.UN and CRADLE AND ALL?  I could almost figure it out, but it kept eluding me.  Why?  Why?  Why?  Why, in a book with 350 pages of text, were chapters on an average only 3 pages long, thus leaving only about 240 pages of actual text, counting the opening and ending margins of each chapter?  Oh, the horrible loss of trees in the production of a book of this kind!  And why, why did Patterson write the book with such a peculiar point-of-view, alternating wildly between the first person for one of the characters in about a third of the chapters, and the third person for the remainder of the book?  Why make so many repeated allusions to what will happen in the rest of the book that instead of being filled with a sense of foreboding, the reader is filled first with a sense of irritation, then despair, and finally indifference?  What could the reason be?  <br />There must be a reason, and whatever the reason, it must be bad...really bad.	2001-04-29
US	53011885	R22K7CGMVRF6OY	0595131069	35815229	St. Jude's Secret	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Believeable Characters and a Plot from Today's Headlines	After reading my comments about another book (The Sharpshooter Blues by Lewis Nordan--highly recommended!), the author, Daniel H. Jones, kindly offered me a review copy of St. Jude's Secret if I would consider reviewing it here, and I am pleased to do so.  It is a fine first effort, with believeable characters and a plot right out of today's headlines.  The protagonist, lawyer Bobby Grace, is a refreshingly average everyman--neither the musclebound bulletproof superheroes of David Morrell's Rambo clones, nor a Sherlock Holmesian super-genius.  In fact, Grace barely solves the mystery at all--clues are given to him (too much so, occasionally) without which he wouldn't figure things out, and he certainly can't fight his way out of a paper bag!  Grace is somewhat reminiscent of James Garner's Jim Rockford, from the TV series The Rockford Files.  Villain Carmine &quot;The Vat&quot; Cashio and his dysfunctional family are evilly quirky enough to step from a James Hall novel.  The characters and the plot, a tale of coffee genetically modified to chemically resemble cocaine which is smuggled into New Orleans, make the book well worth a read.  In fact, if Jones could put this book in the hands of the right producer I wouldn't be surprised to see a movie result.<br />There are, however, a few flaws--to be expected in a first novel, to be sure.  Smaller presses can't offer the editorial services that the big companies give to the likes of Steven King and David Morrell, and there are quite a few slips in this regard.  The most unfortunate of these is proof that Jones uses a word-processor. The sentence &quot;Bobby stared at Jewel, noting her slight widow's peak, her thin nose and her green eyes that seemed to suck in what little light there was in the dark limo,&quot; on page 136 returns word-for-word less than 10 pages later, except that now it is a dark restaurant rather than a limo.  Alas, those dark-sucking eyes weren't such a fascinating detail that they should be forced to work overtime.  But these are minor slips, and if ignored they don't detract from the story--and I admit my copy is stamped &quot;DRAFT&quot; in rather large red capitals.  My biggest puzzlement, though, and a real plot concern, was why the Mafia kept selling the GM coffee in its original state, when the whole point was to refine it as cocaine, and for which the profit would be thousands of times greater.  This failure to maximize profits is a necessary plot device to jeopardize Bobby Grace's lover, but it seems most un-Mafia-like behaviour to me.<br />Regardless, though, St. Jude's Secret is an enjoyable book, and I look forward to future works by Jones as he matures as a writer.  I wouldn't be surprised, in fact, to see Bobby Grace return as a series hero--it would be a pleasure to have such a realistic character.to work overtime.  But these are minor slips, and if ignored they don't detract from the story--and I admit my copy is stamped &quot;DRAFT&quot; in rather large red capitals.  My biggest puzzlement, though, and a real plot concern, was why the Mafia kept selling the GM coffee in its original state, when the whole point was to refine it as cocaine, and for which the profit would be thousands of times greater.  This failure to maximize profits is a necessary plot device to jeopardize Bobby Grace's lover, but it seems most un-Mafia-like behaviour to me.<br />Regardless, though, St. Jude's Secret is an enjoyable book, and I look forward to future works by Jones as he matures as a writer.  I wouldn't be surprised, in fact, to see Bobby Grace return as a series hero--it would be a pleasure to have such a realistic character.	2001-04-29
US	53011885	R3BRC9HWKR254H	1585980730	334009333	Harry Potter Collector's Value Guide	Books	1	33	37	N	N	Merchadising Madness, Editorial Crisis	My previous review of this product was removed by Amazon after receiving 54 of 58 \\"helpful\\" votes, with the remark by the editor to me that  \\"It is not clear from reading the review that you have read the book you commented on.\\"  I don't see how so many of Amazon's potential customers could disagree, and I assure you all that I have indeed read this \\"book\\" and that my comments below are thus informed.<br />To even consider that this is a \\"book\\" is misleading.  It is much more of a magazine format, and although it does contain some articles, they are obviously filler for what is otherwise an advertisement for Harry Potter merchandise, of which this book is one.  The articles contain nothing that is not readily available elsewhere--much of it available on the net for free.  This book seeks not to inform or entertain, but to part you from your hard-earned dollars with the least amount of effort on the publishers.  If the \\"book\\" were half the price or less it might be a reasonable value.  But since the Collector's Value Guide is as expensive as it is, beware of the information included--obviously the \\"authors\\" have no true sense of worth.<br />Were this truly a Collector's Value Guide, there would be some discussion of value, and what value might actually mean when the market is flooded with cheap garbage like pieces of colored plastic that are supposed to be &quot;magical stones&quot; whose real purpose is to enrich their makers, not entertain children.  But of course, no such discussion exists. Granted, not every Potter &quot;collectable&quot; is a monstrosity, but how terribly unfortunate that the real value of Harry Potter, the delight of a child, has been eclipsed by the soulless and almightly dollar. The Harry Potter phenomenon is amazing, and I'm delighted to see so many kids interested in reading, and engaged in the worlds of fantasy and imagination, but this \\"book\\" is not about that at all.  Instead, the &quot;writers&quot; of this &quot;book&quot; have managed to make a &quot;collectable&quot; from a &quot;book&quot; about &quot;collectables.&quot;  Clearly the world is not the way I'd have it...d to make a &quot;collectable&quot; from a &quot;book&quot; about &quot;collectables.&quot;  Clearly the world is not the way I'd have it...	2001-04-27
US	53011885	RWBA193AWK2K3	1585980641	460451799	Ty Beanie Babies Winter 2001 Collector's Value Guide	Books	2	2	25	N	N	Question the REAL Value	The good folks editing the reviews here at Amazon have told me in no uncertain terms that my reviews should focus SOLELY on the product itself. Comments on merchandising are entirely unwelcome, at least according to some editors here.  In reference to my comments on a similar product I've been told &quot;Your review of the Collector's Value Guide has been removed from our database, as it is not a critique of the book in question.  It is not clear from reading the review that you have read the book you commented on.&quot;  How one comments on the quality of a &quot;book&quot; like the Ty Beanie Babies Winter 2001 Collector's Value Guide, which is almost exclusively about merchandise and exists solely because of marketing, without commenting on merchandising of the products I don't quite know.  (To prove I've actually &quot;read the book&quot;, hopefully I'll be allowed to tell you that the products considered in this tome are small stuffed animal [some imaginary] toys with heart-shaped paper tags on their ears known as &quot;Beanie Babies&quot;.  I'm not at all sure that I'll be allowed to discuss these legume-namesaked infants further, though.)<br />But I'll give it a try:  Having read the Ty Beanie Babies Winter 2001 Collector's Value Guide, by an anonymous author, I can say that I was extremely disappointed.  True, there were lots of good pictures, and tons of characters, but character development was extremely limited.  The plot was completely incomprehensible to me.  Whoever this mystery author is, he or she is far more obscure than James Joyce ever was!  Talk about sound and fury signifying nothing!  I can't help but think that another author would have done so much better with this material.  Now, I don't want to give away the ending or too many &quot;plot twists&quot;, but I was disappointed to find that as soon as the reader gets interested in a particular character, that character disappears ominously (or in Beanie Baby parlance, &quot; is retired&quot;).  I'm not at all sure that younger children should be exposed to such a frightening prospect. Older children may be able to get past these concerns to see the essential theme of the book in a positive light as the continual renewal of life. But frankly, I'd give this book a miss.I'm not at all sure that younger children should be exposed to such a frightening prospect. Older children may be able to get past these concerns to see the essential theme of the book in a positive light as the continual renewal of life. But frankly, I'd give this book a miss.	2001-04-18
US	53011885	R1YD5OMHUM25EU	0439236533	429841982	Harry Potter Hogwarts Journal	Books	3	45	52	N	N	Don't be deceived--this is NOT a Harry Potter STORY	As far as Harry Potter merchandise goes, the Hogwarts Journal isn't too bad.  It seems far more intriguing to most kids than garbage like those horrid pieces of plastic which are supposed to be &quot;magic stones.&quot;  The journal is a spiral bound notebook, with appropriately Potter-y art and design on the front and inside. It comes with two full-sized pages of stickers with very colorful and well-executed pictures.  Some kids will think that the stickers alone are worth the price--whether their parents will agree is questionable.  Inside the journal are some topic headings--nothing more than three or four lines.  Page backs have no writing at all.  And herein lies my primary concern about this product--that if a child is expecting HARRY POTTER'S Hogwarts Journal, they are sure to be disappointed.  This is not a storybook--it contains no stories, no plot, no characters.  It is a fancy notebook, a place for children to draw and write, not for them to read about Harry Potter's Hogwarts experience.  As such, the Harry Potter tie-in is sure to encourage children to be creative and I have to applaud it for that.  But I do think the huge &quot;Harry Potter&quot; on the cover could easily be misleading.  My other qualm is that for the price only 64 pages seems discouragingly miserly, especially compared to the Harry Potter books with about seven times the number of pages, all with printing that had to be typeset--and a STORY!  The escalating cost of textbooks is always a concern, but with &quot;bargains&quot; like this, who could ever afford the cost of tuition at Hogwarts?	2001-04-04
US	53011885	R3RXV78WSGPIOH	0446519642	288479263	Burnt Sienna	Books	3	5	7	N	N	SOCKO!  ZOWIE!!  KERBLAMM!!!	There was a time when David Morrell was an interesting writer, and I read his works with enjoyment and anticipation. &quot;First Blood&quot; and &quot;Brotherhood of the Rose&quot; were pretty good novels, with interesting stories, flowing prose, and characters beyond the norm for the standard action/adventure thriller. But somewhere along the way he watched a few too many Rambo sequels and it really shows in his current fiction. If the only way to get your hero out of a jam is to have him outrun machinegun bullets, then count me out as a fan. &quot;Burnt Sienna&quot; is chock full of the standard thriller nonsense--so much of it that I don't even want to bother enumerating it all. The most egregious example is a manical villian so interested in torturing our heros slowly (which, by the way, he's apparently never done before!) that he'd rather let them escape repeatedly than just go on and kill them--didn't audiences get enough of that back in the days when Adam West played Batman on TV? And bombs exploding all around, bullets flying by the bucketload, grenades going off, but our fearless hero and our plucky heroine manage to get by without a scratch. Heck, even the most fiendish evil weapon (which actually was rather cleverly set up) ever created didn't even manage to kill our eponymous lass. Can David Morrell escape the trap of commercial success and return to the quality of writing that won him his first fans? Or will the desire for more easy but imminently forgettable novels win out over artistry? Stay tuned to the next novel to find out--same Bat Time, same Bat Channel!	2001-03-20
US	53011885	R2AT828GFE15I5	0393958086	886659268	Workbook for the Study of Orchestration	Books	3	68	72	N	N	Entirely Dispensible Companion to an Indispensible Textbook	Each time I've taught orchestration I've used Samuel Adler's The Study of Orchestration book and CD.  Although I have reservations about the text (which I've enumerated in my review here at amazon.com), I think it is the best available text and the accompanying CDs really make the set invaluable.  I've never been comfortable with the workbook, however, and in fact have never used it for class.  It is not entirely without value--for example, the passage on string bowings is very helpful (Worksheet 2), and for a teacher this provides material ready at hand for exercises in transposition, clefs, harmonics, and the like, which are generally satisfactory. Much of the workbook, however, takes an historical approach to the teaching of orchestration which I am uncomfortable with for most students.  Adler uses &quot;Listen and Score&quot; exercises repeatedly, in which the student is instructed to listen to a passage (included on the CD set that accompanies the text) given in piano or short score and instructed to orchestrate it exactly as they heard it.  While these can be helpful in the early stages, I can't understand why one would want to encourage a student to write for 2 horns in C and 2 horns in Eb as Berlioz did.  Modern instruments have transcended many of the difficulties that earlier composers faced, and to learn to score for those instruments in the style of a particular composer may be of some historical interest, but little practical worth.  There is the decided advantage for the teacher of answers being either right (the way composer X did it) or wrong (anything else)--but the nature of orchestration belies that duality.  Often in orchestration many choices are equally right; but if a passage must be notated choices must be made.  To make a particular choice does not invalidate the viability of an alternate choice.<br />Other exercises are downright quirky.  Worksheet 14 calls for the student to transcribe a Bach organ prelude for four percussionists, all playing non-pitched percussion.  While this might be a lot of fun, I doubt it is the best way to learn the use of non-pitched percussion for orchestrational purposes.<br />Missing almost entirely is any material on the wind band.  Where winds are considered, they are considered only as the wind section of an orchestra.  True, the set is not titled The Study of Orchestration and Band Arranging, but since most students (in the US, at least) will be much more likely to face bands rather than full orchestras in their professional life, such a section would be of great worth.ing non-pitched percussion.  While this might be a lot of fun, I doubt it is the best way to learn the use of non-pitched percussion for orchestrational purposes.<br />Missing almost entirely is any material on the wind band.  Where winds are considered, they are considered only as the wind section of an orchestra.  True, the set is not titled The Study of Orchestration and Band Arranging, but since most students (in the US, at least) will be much more likely to face bands rather than full orchestras in their professional life, such a section would be of great worth.	2001-03-19
US	53011885	R1TTEMX3DVOML1	0393958078	47906964	The Study of Orchestration	Books	4	149	155	N	N	Without peer, but not without problem	I've used Adler's Study of Orchestration (2nd ed.) each time I've taught orchestration, and the quality of the text coupled with the CD examples make it by far the best standard orchestration text I've seen.  That the reader is able to hear not only examples taken from music, but also able to compare various spacings, doublings, and orchestrations of even single chords is invaluable.  As I tell my students, it's not so much who is playing a line, it is who is playing a line in a given place--and the only way to learn what an instrument sounds like in its various registers is to hear it there.  Especially helpful are passages like Adler's discussion of woodwinds in the symphony orchestra (Chapter 8) in which several possible orchestrations of a single musical passage are illustrated, discussed, and presented on CD, allowing readers to recognize and judge for themselves the relative quality.  It is this, that much in orchestration is not particularly wrong or right, and that there are many many ways to score a particular passage, that makes orchestration so difficult to teach; and Adler is sensitive to the issue.<br />But any book of this scope is likely to have some problems, and this is no exception.  I'll mention only two that have struck me in particular as a trombonist, neither of which are particularly serious in and of themselves, but whose presence is at best unwelcome and perhaps even somewhat distressing in a textbook.<br />First, Adler's discussion of the trombone glissando (chapter 10) is inadequate and separated by several pages from his discussion of the overtone series as it relates to the trombone.  Given that the way a trombone glissando works is inseparable from the overtone series, this seems strange indeed.  The situation is compounded by Adler's example from Bartok's Concerto for Orchestra, of which he says &quot;The following glissando, first for the bass trombone, then for the tenor, is perfect, since it extends from seventh to first position.&quot;  Any trombone player will tell you that in fact Bartok got it wrong, and the bass trombone glissando is impossible without doing some serious cheating.  On the bass trombone using an attachment in F or E one can only play a perfect 4th, not a tritone, in that particular harmonic; and bass trombonists have come up with all kinds of ingenious tricks to play this devilish passage which looks so easy to the ill-informed.  It is FAR from perfect.  While this little quirk of the trombone isn't really very important in the grand scheme of orchestration it makes me wonder how many other instrumental quirks have gone unnoticed.<br />More important, however, are some oddities of Adler's observations and discussions of the examples he chooses.  In chapter 11, in the unit on the brass choir as a homophonic unit, Adler exerpts a passage from Hindemith's Noblissima Visione.  He describes the passage as &quot;a 'dark' doubling&quot; and ascribes this to the fact that &quot;neither the trumpets nor the horns ever go too high.&quot;  Later he seems to contradict himself.  &quot;The brilliance of this passage as it is scored comes from the unison of the horns and trombones rather than of blaring trumpets.&quot;  Never mind the prejudicial &quot;blaring&quot; (surely a trumpet can be played in the high register and sound brilliant without blaring); which is it--brilliant or dark?  Try as we might, neither my students nor I can ever hear this as &quot;dark&quot;.  At best, the last measure of a five measure passage might be considered so because of the low register, but in fact the trumpets, horns, and trombones all do go fairly high in one of the preceding measures.  If one fifth of a passage is sufficient to consider the entire passage &quot;dark&quot;, why isn't one fifth of the same passage sufficient to consider it &quot;bright&quot;?  Adler goes on to say &quot;If Hindemith had wanted an extremely bright sound, he could have transposed it up a third or a fourth and had the trumpets and the horns at an extremely high register.&quot;  Well, no....the passage is not complete in itself, but part of a larger piece--a passacaglia, no less.  In order to transpose the passage, Hindemith would have had to either transpose the entire movement (which would in turn have required a transposition of the entire piece in order to keep the same key relationships) or have written some modulating passage--unimaginable in a passacaglia.  It is simply wrong to consider that transposing a particular passage is an acceptable way to orchestrate &quot;brightness&quot; or &quot;darkness&quot; without regard to tonal relationships of the whole.  That is not to say that the passage could not be brighter or darker, but to do so with orchestration requires dealing with the instruments and their registers, not the pitches.  If Hindemith had omitted the horns in the first 4 measures, then brought in horns and omitted trumpets in the final 5 notes, perhaps even putting the first trombone up an octave on those notes the passage would have been significantly brighter.  There is even more that is problematic about this discussion--in fact it seems the most poorly argued in the book, but I believe I've made my point.<br />However, as a classroom tool, The Study of Orchestration is as yet unequalled, and examples like the Hindemith allow the careful teacher the opportunity to develop the students' critical and analytical skills.  The workbook has its own problems, which I won't discuss here, but the book and CD are well worth repeated study and thought.he trumpets and the horns at an extremely high register.&quot;  Well, no....the passage is not complete in itself, but part of a larger piece--a passacaglia, no less.  In order to transpose the passage, Hindemith would have had to either transpose the entire movement (which would in turn have required a transposition of the entire piece in order to keep the same key relationships) or have written some modulating passage--unimaginable in a passacaglia.  It is simply wrong to consider that transposing a particular passage is an acceptable way to orchestrate &quot;brightness&quot; or &quot;darkness&quot; without regard to tonal relationships of the whole.  That is not to say that the passage could not be brighter or darker, but to do so with orchestration requires dealing with the instruments and their registers, not the pitches.  If Hindemith had omitted the horns in the first 4 measures, then brought in horns and omitted trumpets in the final 5 notes, perhaps even putting the first trombone up an octave on those notes the passage would have been significantly brighter.  There is even more that is problematic about this discussion--in fact it seems the most poorly argued in the book, but I believe I've made my point. <br />However, as a classroom tool, The Study of Orchestration is as yet unequalled, and examples like the Hindemith allow the careful teacher the opportunity to develop the students' critical and analytical skills.  The workbook has its own problems, which I won't discuss here, but the book and CD are well worth repeated study and thought.	2001-03-19
US	53011885	R11G2LNT1D77VR	0061020540	571216131	Year's Best SF 5	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Disappointing Anthology for the Turn of the Millennium	Science fiction is an immensely broad category.  It encompasses stories as diverse as standard monster fare (the movie ALIEN, for example), social satire (the TV series THIRD ROCK FROM THE SUN, the movie THE BROTHER FROM ANOTHER PLANET), farce (THE LITTLE SHOP OF HORRORS), adventure (STAR WARS) as well as more traditionally science oriented tales of our society (1984) or imaginary worlds far beyond ours (2001) and much more.  Editing an anthology which proports to represent the best short science fiction published in a year must be an incredibly demanding task, and David Hartwell is to be commended for attempting to represent a fair share of this variety.  But if this book genuinely represents the best of SF published in 1999, I have to wonder if some bizarre millennial fever didn't strike the SF world a bit early.  As SF writers are, by definition, imaginative folks, did they as a group get a bit too worked up worrying about Y2K to concentrate on their writing?  Well, of course not; and interestingly enough there is no looming sense of catastrophe in the vast majority of this anthology.  Instead, the tales generally treasure our humanity over technology and offer a hopeful view of the future (with a few notable exceptions).  And yet...<br />Hartwell's anthology is sizable, containing 25 short stories.  Of these, less than half were memorable enough that as I write this review while looking at the table of contents, I actually remember the stories--this only a few days after completing the book.  I'm definitely getting older, sure, and more crotchety; but as yet I've no noticable symptoms of Alzheimer's.  The one word that comes to mind with regard to most of these stories is &quot;ordinary&quot;.<br />However, about 10 of the stories were worth a read.  Of these, the two best were Cory Doctrow's &quot;Visit the Sins&quot;, portraying family relationships that developed after an attempt to cure Attention Deficit Disorder goes horribly awry; and Chris Lawson's &quot;Written in Blood&quot; was an engaging look at the border between faith and technology, with prejudice and hope entangling one another.<br />Robert Reed's &quot;Game of the Century&quot; posited a future in which genetic engineering gives us superhuman athletes, but more importantly explores how they would feel growing up as such.  Sarah Zettel's &quot;Kinds of Strangers&quot; follows the psychological breakdown of the crew of a deep-space craft after a devastating equipment failure.  Stephen Baxter's bleak &quot;Huddle&quot;, about a future molded by genetic engineering and planetary catastrophe was easily the darkest story in the book.  Curt Wohleber's &quot;100 Candles&quot; and Chris Beckett's &quot;Valour&quot; were genuinely well written, well conceived stories with interesting characters.  Finally, translated from the Japanese, Hiroe Suga's &quot;Freckled Figure&quot; was a beautifully told tale that somehow bound together the spirit of ancient Japanese craftsmanship with the love of anime and technology that drives so much of Japan today.<br />For the sake of these stories, YEAR'S BEST SF 5 is worth a look.  But if you really want great sci-fi, I'd HIGHLY recommend STARFISH by Peter Watts.  I've just finished it and have to say it is the best sci-fi books I've read in many many years.  I hope that David Hartwell is able to find fiction of that quality for future anthologies.Written in Blood&quot; was an engaging look at the border between faith and technology, with prejudice and hope entangling one another.  <br />Robert Reed's &quot;Game of the Century&quot; posited a future in which genetic engineering gives us superhuman athletes, but more importantly explores how they would feel growing up as such.  Sarah Zettel's &quot;Kinds of Strangers&quot; follows the psychological breakdown of the crew of a deep-space craft after a devastating equipment failure.  Stephen Baxter's bleak &quot;Huddle&quot;, about a future molded by genetic engineering and planetary catastrophe was easily the darkest story in the book.  Curt Wohleber's &quot;100 Candles&quot; and Chris Beckett's &quot;Valour&quot; were genuinely well written, well conceived stories with interesting characters.  Finally, translated from the Japanese, Hiroe Suga's &quot;Freckled Figure&quot; was a beautifully told tale that somehow bound together the spirit of ancient Japanese craftsmanship with the love of anime and technology that drives so much of Japan today.<br />For the sake of these stories, YEAR'S BEST SF 5 is worth a look.  But if you really want great sci-fi, I'd HIGHLY recommend STARFISH by Peter Watts.  I've just finished it and have to say it is the best sci-fi books I've read in many many years.  I hope that David Hartwell is able to find fiction of that quality for future anthologies.	2001-03-18
US	53011885	R2HY9TYYTZ71TH	0312868553	792964844	Starfish (Rifters Trilogy)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Fantastic combination of ideas, characters, scene, and plot	I simply can't say enough good about Peter Watts' debut novel Starfish.  It is rare enough when a &quot;hard&quot; science-fiction novel tells a fascinating story rich with ideas in an interesting setting, but Watts goes one better and builds his novel around very compelling characters in a grim and dark &quot;coming-of-age&quot; tale.  The plot is first rate--full of plausible ideas with their consequences well thought-out.  The science involved is in many fields--we have biology, evolution, geology, and psychology, among others--and all are convincingly done.  But what makes the book so vivid is not the story as much as watt's mature characterisations.  I can't agree at all with those critics here who have written that the ending is truncated--I think they missed the point.  Starfish is a tale of how the main character, Lenie Clarke, &quot;matures&quot; thoughout her travails.  What she does next, fodder for a possible sequel, we can easily imagine; as we have learned about her and understand her motivations.  Such a sequel will likely be mundane and obvious (although I have enough respect for Watts that I believe if anyone could do such a book well, he could)--a typical &quot;monster&quot; story.  Instead, it is Lenie's journey, not her destination, which is of the most interest.  At any rate, this is a terrific read--by far the best sci-fi book I have read in years.  In fact, I'd go so far as to say it is one of the best books of any sort I've read in years.  Starfish has my highest recommendation.  I'm looking forward to further Peter Watts' writing with great anticipation.	2001-03-09
US	53011885	R1Z4ERURJ2FO4Q	0446604666	198501177	Sick Puppy	Books	4	0	0	N	N	More Hiaasen Hi-Jinx!	Carl Hiaasen is back again and venting his spleen at Florida developers and politicians as usual.  His vehicle for this diatribe is full of the same formulaic characters and plot lines as all of his previous books--wacky but loveable eco-terrorists versus zany but stupid crooks and pols. In fact Hiassen's running character, the former governor and current eco-crazy &quot;Skink&quot; Tyree, returns in a big way, to mentor the novel's protagonist Twilly Spree.  Over the last several books Skink has been comically but steadily deteriorating. (What is it with Florida's nature loving series heros?  James Hall's Thorne is also being whittled away!)  Fortunately he loses no body parts this time, but I wondered if Hiaasen's characterisation of Spree isn't in part designed to replace Skink eventually.  Or maybe it's just a twisted Batman/Robin kind of thing...<br />If you've read Hiaasen before, you are familiar with the scenario.  To put Hiassen in august company, I'm reminded of John Irving, who also seems to be writing the same book over and over.  Irving does it superbly, while Hiaasen only does it well and with a shorter reach.  But if you enjoy Hiassen, you will enjoy this book.  Like one of the other critics here, I had thought that his last couple of novels were getting too repetitious.  But Sick Puppy recaptures the best of the absurd tone that Hiaasen had done so well in the past, and flavors it with a certain darkness and self-awareness in his characters.  To call it a &quot;mature&quot; work seems wildly inappropriate for a novel in which one character is fixated on creating living Barbie dolls, another listens to recordings of 911 calls for enjoyment, another has a well deserved phobia about chipmunks; and the hero lives in a swamp wearing a plastic bag on his head, a kilt made from a racing flag, and a glass eye from a gypsy king.  But it certainly is one of Hiaasen's best books to date, and recommended to anyone with a fondness for the absurd and no sense of delicacy whatsoever.elicacy whatsoever.	2001-03-09
US	53011885	R2BV984KQXK9QZ	0446604666	198501177	Sick Puppy	Books	4	1	1	N	N	More Hiaasen Hi-Jinx!	Carl Hiaasen is back again and venting his spleen at Florida developers and politicians as usual. His vehicle for this diatribe is full of the same formulaic characters and plot lines as all of his previous books--wacky but loveable eco-terrorists versus zany but stupid crooks and pols. In fact Hiassen's running character, the former governor and current eco-crazy &quot;Skink&quot; Tyree, returns in a big way, to mentor the novel's protagonist Twilly Spree. Over the last several books Skink has been comically but steadily deteriorating. (What is it with Florida's nature loving series heros? James Hall's Thorne is also being whittled away!) Fortunately he loses no body parts this time, but I wondered if Hiaasen's characterisation of Spree isn't designed in part to replace Skink eventually. Or maybe it's just a twisted Batman/Robin kind of thing...<br />If you've read Hiaasen before, you are familiar with the scenario. To put Hiassen in august company, I'm reminded of John Irving, who also seems to be writing the same book over and over. Irving does so superbly, while Hiaasen does so less well and with a shorter reach. But if you enjoy Hiassen, you will enjoy this book. Like some of the other critics here, I had thought that his last couple of novels were getting too repetitious. But Sick Puppy recaptures the best of the absurd tone that Hiaasen had done so well in the past, and flavors it with a certain darkness and self-awareness in his characters. To call it a &quot;mature&quot; work seems wildly inappropriate for a novel in which one character is fixated on creating living Barbie dolls, another listens to recordings of 911 calls for enjoyment, another has a well deserved phobia about chipmunks; and the hero lives in a swamp wearing a plastic bag on his head, a kilt made from a racing flag, and a glass eye from a gypsy king. But it certainly is one of Hiaasen's best books to date, and recommended to anyone with a fondness for the absurd and no sense of delicacy whatsoever.	2001-03-09
US	53011885	R14YJAQKHRFWOR	0810808048	355389035	The Dracula Book	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Literary and Theatrical Dracula til 1975	I found this book in the library when looking for information on the 1931 film Dracula, and was rewarded with all the material I wanted.  The bulk of the book is about portrayals of Dracula on stage, screen, and in literature; although there are a couple of early chapters on the historical fact behind the legends they add little to what is generally known about Vlad the impaler, and make no attempt to trace vampire legends any earlier.  Although one of the chapters is titled &quot;The Ancestors of Dracula&quot;, this chapter is about literary ancestors of Bram Stoker's character.  The main limitation to this book is that its publication date precedes much of the more recent interest in vampires, probably spawned by the success of Anne Rice's Interview with the Vampire.  No mention is made of vampiric representations or appearances in the visual arts or music--an updating of the book might well cover the several versions of Dracula that have been done as operas or ballet.  But as a reference to various media presentations of the Count up to 1975, this is fairly good.	2001-02-26
US	53011885	R35QDJ1A3WAJU1	0312205406	963436946	Hot Six	Books	4	2	3	N	N	More Evanovich Fun	In this installment of Janet Evanovich's Stephanie Plum series the plot is so thin it is practically diaphanous.  The story of Ranger's possible involvement in a murder and Stephanie's search for him is only an excuse to put Stephanie in more outrageous situations, with wacky characters and dialogue and has no real importance to the novel at all--to the point that the obvious conclusion available so early on is in fact the correct one.  But who cares?  If you want to read a female detective story for the plot, better get Sarah Paretsky instead.  By now it's obvious that Evanovich is a comedy writer, not a mystery writer, and as such Hot Six is a fun addition to her series.  The running jokes are back, and oddly enough are funnier than before--in the last book I thought I'd had it with the dead car gag, but Evanovich pulls out more laughs this time round with the same gag.  And Grandma Mazur becomes an even better character, as we get to spend some quality time with her.  This is a fun, quick read; not great literature, but just right after a hard day of brain surgery or quantum physics or whatever...	2001-02-26
US	53011885	R1IDTQ5SOUVMAQ	0395939186	753005234	The Best American Mystery Stories 2000 (The Best American Series)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Flesh wound rather than a gut shot...	Having read the 1999 anthology I looked forward to this year's edition with great anticipation.  The 1999 anthology was quite simply the best book of mystery stories I had ever read.  Unfortunately, mystery writers apparently had an &quot;off&quot; year this year, though--maybe their minds were preoccupied with Y2K.  It  wasn't until the last third of the anthology that the 2000 edition really took off, with Edward Lee's twisted little &quot;ICU&quot;, Dennis Lehane's excellent &quot;Running Out of Dog&quot; and Thomas McNeely's twisted long &quot;Sheep&quot;.  Shel Silverstein's &quot;The Guilty Party&quot; is an amusing addition, but I thought he telegraphed the ending by miles.  All in all, this book has many good stories, but simply lacks the consistency of quality from the previous year's.  Lehane's story was reprinted from another anthology also edited by Otto Penzler.  Several stories listed as &quot;Other Distinguished Mystery Stories of 1999&quot;, including one by the terrific novelist James Hall, appear in this book, called &quot;Murder and Obsession&quot;, and it might well be worth a look.	2001-02-25
US	53011885	R36NOZKI14N7Y2	0061097861	623172566	Hunting Badger (Joe Leaphorn/Jim Chee Novels)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Another Hillerman Success	Hunting Badger is a worthy addition to Hillerman's already strong collection of mysteries.  Although at the beginning of the book the mystery doesn't seem to be terribly mysterious, the plot twists a few times and is very satisfying by the end.  But superceding the plot, and for the first time superceding the Navajo culture, is the character development of the two heros, Jim Chee and Joe Leaphorn.  It is high praise indeed that we care more about the characters than about the outcome of the manhunt.  It is such a pleasure to follow series characters that progress through life in a realistic way, and Chee and Leaphorn have done so under Hillerman's direction quite admirably.  If you've not read Hillerman before this is not the novel to start with, but I highly recommend all the Hillerman stories with these two characters and this is a fine addition to the series.	2001-02-17
US	53011885	R3Q2IBYT7FZ98R	0553582941	191153164	Sole Survivor	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Koontz formula wins again; new formula desparately needed!	I've been a Dean Koontz fan for a long time now, and have read almost everything he's published to date.  Koontz frankly admits that he writes to formula; and indeed almost every book features a flawed (usually male) hero, a conspiracy of some sort (often involving some shady governmental project); a lengthy chase; and a successful outcome for the hero.  Lots and lots of foreshadowing.  Often there is a dog, never a cat.  And Koontz does this formula superbly.  For a while there the chases got a bit over-long and dull, but then he hit his stride again with his best book to date, &quot;Fear Nothing&quot;, and hasn't faltered since.  Fans expect the formula, and Sole Survivor is a worthy addition to the Koontz canon.  The main character, Joe Carpenter, is likeable enough and flawed enough--he's depressed over his wife's death in a plane crash.  The conspiracy is fiendish enough and interesting enough.  By itself this is a terrific book, and makes a great, quick and entertaining read.  But I for one am really wishing for a significant departure from Koontz's formula, which is paling fast.  I can hardly fault Koontz--he's obviously raking in the money, and who am I to say he shouldn't live in luxury?  But it seems to me to be a great waste of talent, and I hope one day he wakes up with a desire to break the mold, take a chance, and really contribute a masterpiece to the genre.	2001-02-17
US	53011885	R1IB18D112OMA7	039593916X	389303269	The Best American Mystery Stories 1999	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Wonderful Anthology	This is an exceptional anthology; almost all 20 stories are true gems.  One is only a semi-precious stone, and that because it suffers in its juxtaposition with another story with a similar plot. The final story in the anthology, John Updike's Bech Noir, is just cut-glass--I can understand it appealing to mystery writers, as it deals with a writer who kills his critics, but it seemed to lower the quality of the book somewhat.  Among the very best stories are &quot;Safe&quot;, Gary A. Braunbeck's absolutely harrowing semi-autobiographical tale of those left behind by a serial killer; Thomas H. Cook's retelling of a very familiar story, &quot;Fatherhood&quot;;  and David K. Harford's Vietnam murder mystery &quot;A Death on the Ho Chi Minh Trail&quot;.  My favorite was Tom Franklin's &quot;Poachers&quot;, a novella in the best tradition of southern fiction about three orphaned brothers without a chance.  [If you like Franklin's work, I'd also recommend Lewis Nordan's novel &quot;The Sharpshooter Blues&quot;.]  What struck me most about this entire anthology was the depth of the authors' artistry.  Not only can they tell a mean mystery, but they also create vivid, compelling characters who seem very lifelike.  This is difficult enough in a novel, but in a short story it is the sign of an excellent writer indeed.  I enjoyed this anthology so much that I made sure to get the subsequent year's, which I'm reading now.  The only regret I had about this book was that editor Ed McBain did not contribute more--there is no McBain story, only a clever introduction.  I highly recommend this book and I will definitely be looking for Tom Franklin's work again.	2001-02-03
US	53011885	R2PT28J6Q6M0R1	0812576403	85474640	The Light of Other Days	Books	3	20	23	N	N	Technological Consequences vs Compelling Characters?	Science Fiction, from its earliest days, has been decried by its critics as immature, pulp fantasy.  Often this has been a well-deserved comment, as all too much science fiction is neither good science nor good fiction.  Take an intelligent twelve-year-old to the movies with you and you are likely to hear, &quot;Well, the alien was cool, but space is a vacuum and you couldn't hear the explosion, and the fire wouldn't have burned like that cause there's no atmosphere to burn, and anyway, why weren't they all floating around, cause everyone knows there's no gravity in outer space!&quot;, or some such.  But many modern day science fiction writers, following the lead of such giants as Arthur C. Clarke and Issac Asimov, now incorporate good science into their works--thus the term &quot;hard science fiction.&quot;  Stephen Baxter is one of the hardest of these hard sci-fi writers, and his co-authorship with Clarke of &quot;The Light of Other Days&quot; fulfills its potential as the book is rich with the consequences of a speculative technology.  In this case, we have, not time-travel, but time-vision and omni-vision.  With the development of the &quot;WormCam&quot;, a videocamera that can see macroscopic images anywhere in the universe and anywhere in the past, humanity faces a crisis of self.  Compounding the issue is the impending crash of a gigantic asteroid into the Earth, which seemingly cannot be averted and which will almost surely destroy all intelligent life.  (That the asteroid is called the Wormwood, the camera is the WormCam, the place the camera was developed is the Wormworks, and the phenomenon on which the technology is based is the Wormhole is all a bit much, and leads to some confusion on the part of the inattentive reader.  But that's another can of worms...)  Clarke and Baxter relentlessly pursue the consequences of the total loss of privacy, the abuse of power, the subsequent counter-measures, the demise of society's most cherished myths, the effect on religion, and so forth.  I can easily imagine a brain-storming session between the two writers--it must have been quite exciting, with ideas and their consequences flying fast and furious.  Hard sci-fi fans will love this book, and as an exploration of ideas, it is very good indeed.<br />But there is another side to science fiction, and that is the personal side, the fiction more than the science.  And here, frankly, like so much &quot;hard sci-fi&quot; writing, I feel that Clarke and Baxter have let their readers down a bit.  It is one thing to say &quot;society will be affected this way by this development&quot; and another thing entirely to write a tale with characters who are caught up in those developments that the readers care about.  The first is *telling,* and it is the domain of dissertations, newspapers, science journals.  The second is *showing,* and it is the true ART of fiction writing.  There are so many good writers of fiction now, who create very compelling characters that truly grip us with their dilemmas--James Lee Burke, James Hall, Michael Connelly (none of these are sci-fi writers, admittedly) to name but a very few.  It seemed to me a great shame that the ideas of this book, which were very interesting and well-thought out, were hung on such weak characters.  Indeed, at times the story-line, such as it was, was abandoned just for such &quot;telling&quot; writing as &quot;quotes&quot; from books and journals, etc. published about historical or sociological research.  I should have been prepared for this when the first character to appear apparently dies of a heart attack at the end of the first chapter and no mention of him is ever made again.  Although I often decry the lack of good editing, as so many of today's writers seem to me to &quot;over-write&quot;, and a compact book of 200 pages or so is a rarity today, in this particular case I think the authors simply needed more space to tell their tale in a more compelling way.  If this had hadthe characterizations of Robert Heinlein's Stranger in a Strange Land it would have been an instant classic.  But I'm afraid that in its current state it will not gain a wider appeal beyond hard-core hard sci-fi fans.the characterizations of Robert Heinlein's Stranger in a Strange Land it would have been an instant classic.  But I'm afraid that in its current state it will not gain a wider appeal beyond hard-core hard sci-fi fans.	2001-02-03
US	53011885	RA6YSUGEDITR7	0446608262	210194816	The Lion's Game	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Slightly flawed novel from a great author	Nelson DeMille has been around for quite a while and he never disappoints--he's been one of my very favorite authors for years and I'm always delighted to find a new book of his.  That said, I did not think that The Lion's Game was his best work, although it certainly was well written and beautifully plotted, as all his books are.  The climax of the book, while believable, was somewhat anti-climactic, and the big mystery of the assassin's unknown target, while unusual, was no big surprise to me.  The hero of this novel, John Corey, is a carryover from DeMille's earlier book Plum Island.  I believe this is the first time DeMille has repeated a major character, and I hope that he doesn't fall into the series-mania that is so prevalent today.  Although Corey is entertaining, I found his humor at times annoying, and occasionally (as at the climax of the novel) unrealistic--it reminds me a bit of comic book superheroes like Spiderman wisecracking as they are taking a beating, knowing that ultimately they will prevail.  To his credit, DeMille makes Corey a character who is aware of his ability to annoy; but I do think that DeMille has created more interesting and memorable characters and frankly I found it odd that Corey is the one character to return.  One more peave--DeMille needs a more demanding editor.  The paperback, at over 900 pages, is really excessive.  While the book is full of interesting and often amusing commentaries on this and that (DeMille gives a discreet nod to the movie of his book The General's Daughter, and takes a potshot at a particular movie critic), these, and the descriptions and detail do build up to bog down the story.  Do we really need to know who got in the car's front seat, and who got in the back?<br />But, these criticisms aside, DeMille is still a powerhouse at plotting, writing some of the most interesting storylines around.  No one needs to outrun machinegun fire or handgrenade explosions in a DeMille book--the action makes sense in a real-world context.  The beginning of The Lion's Game is as good as they come, with a truly terrifying and believable mass murder.  If you've not read DeMille, I heartily recommend him--but read Plum Island before The Lions' Game.  Cathedral or The General's Daughter or By The Rivers of Babylon are DeMille at his very best.a real-world context.  The beginning of The Lion's Game is as good as they come, with a truly terrifying and believable mass murder.  If you've not read DeMille, I heartily recommend him--but read Plum Island before The Lions' Game.  Cathedral or The General's Daughter or By The Rivers of Babylon are DeMille at his very best.	2001-01-25
US	53011885	R37Q04TH08S6H6	0380973545	730540102	Letters from a Nut	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Invitation to Mr. Nancy	Dear Mr. Nancy,<br />My kudos to you for your recent book, Letters from a Nut.  (Actually, as I understand it, you've written two more books since this one, but I haven't read them yet so your book is recent to me!)  It is seldom that one finds such a good book, with almost all the words spelled correctly, and with such gripping cover art (looks like a paper bag!), especially by someone who has two first names.  I noticed that your second first name, Nancy, is actually a girl's name; but in spite of that I would like to request that you consider the position of president of my new society.  It's the Society for People With Two First Names (SPWTFN).  As you probably know, people with this affliction have been discriminated against for years!  Why, you yourself were probably called a &quot;Nancy-boy&quot; when you were a kid!  I know that if I'd have known you, I'd have called you that!  This is the kind of discrimination these people face.  Its even worse than Siamese Twins working at Kinkos!  <br />But anyway, the SPWTFN (hard to say without spitting, unfortunately!) would champion the cause of these poor people, much like you champion causes in your book.  If you are fighting for the right to bring your own ice machine to a hotel, won't you give a little of your time to this cause?  If you don't like the name, we can change it to APWTFN (Association for People With Two First Names), but I think SPWTFN is more poetic.  Please say yes today!  There would be only a little work--fundraising and hosting a national conference yearly at your house--but think of the good you could do!<br />Mr. Nancy, thank you in advance for your help and participation.  And again, my complements on your book.  It was really good to see how one goes about getting toenail clippings into the Baseball Hall of Fame!  Inspirational!<br />Sincerely,<br />Dr. Christopher Coleman (only one first name, but I was almost Dr. Christopher Robin Coleman!)	2001-01-09
US	53011885	R2AK3QG8WHFWIR	1565121821	460083122	The Sharpshooter Blues (Front Porch Paperbacks)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Hommage to Faulkner and O'Connor, with a dash of Burke	Lewis Nordan pays hommage to his artistic forebears William Faulkner and Flannery O'Connor in this novel full of vivid characterisations of the deepest, deepest South. Although at times Nordan's artistry rises to the surface and shows its back like a dolphin lolling in a bayou after eating too many silver sided carp, for the most part the craftsmanship and vision drive the story unobtrusively, like a small boy out on a joy ride, barely able to see over the dashboard of his father's pickup truck that he took while daddy was passed out drunk after hearing his wife carrying on with that young Mexican carny worker. In addition to specific allusions to Faulkner's The Sound and the Fury, I also felt the presence of James Lee Burke's In The Electric Mist With Confederate Dead rearing its head like the ghostly presence of a Southern General still aching to command those troups who long ago passed on to another, more distant battlefield. Perhaps this similarity is merely a kind of convergent evolution, though--Nordan may well have been working on his book at the same time Burke was on his. But magical realism and Southern fiction and hydrocephalics and the human condition and show business and spirits and sharpshooters and fishing camps and fictional dead Mexicans and Wonder Woman and tree people and wild canaries and ghost trains and too much food at wakes and existentialism and Plastic Man and old love songs and guns and pork and beans and nihilism and hoodoo women and undertakers and homosexuals and desire and drinking and drowning and despair and sharpshooters all go together to create a terrific and unique book, one well worth reading.	2001-01-09
US	53011885	R1VOERDB6TO3LQ	0312974922	58250960	Rough Draft	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Retelling of Bones of Coral?	James Hall is a terrific writer in every respect.  Not only are his characterizations vivid and his plots intriguing, but his use of language often creates a tone or mood that is poetic in its beauty or depth.  In fact, Hall started writing as a poet.  However, in this most recent outing, I feel that Hall is slightly off his mark.  I've read all his published works to date, and recently I re-read Bones of Coral because it was so good.  So I was unpleasantly surprised when I noticed all the parallels between Rough Draft and Bones of Coral.  Both works feature two couples that are in some sense mirror images of each other.  The &quot;good couple&quot; in both novels have a beautiful woman at the peak of her career brought low by family tragedy and a hero who has seen better days but retains a lot of Travis McGee's influence; the &quot;evil couple&quot; both center around a psychopath with an unhappy childhood who is simply unable to understand normal human interactions and his female counterpart who follows him to depths of depravity believing herself to have found her soul mate.  I think Bones of Coral is Hall's best book to date; and after getting over the parallels I was able to enjoy Rough Draft.  But I must say that in this book Hall seemed to me to concentrate more on plot (the ending is more interesting than that of Bones of Coral) and less on the characterisations and descriptions and settings which have made his other works so enjoyable to me.  Rough Draft seemed like it could have been written by any of a number of good mystery writers; Bones of Coral could only have been written by Hall.  I hope that he recaptures the quality of his earlier style--but I do appreciate that this wasn't another Thorne book.  Poor Thorne has about had it, and I'm not sure after Red Sky at Night he'll ever be able to return.  But that's okay--Hall doesn't have to write a series like so many other of today's authors in order to write a great book.	2001-01-04
US	53011885	R2DS3GD5NZ2XKA	0312205503	529909939	Hemingway's Chair	Books	3	4	8	N	N	You Can't Judge a Book By Its Cover	Ah, one hopes there is a special place in Hell for the blurb writers and their kin who mislead us into purchasing their products.  Prominently displayed on the cover of my paperback copy of Michael Palin's Hemingway's Chair are the words &quot;His Hilarious Bestselling Novel&quot;--and knowing Palin's work from Monty Python, I bought the book expecting a laugh riot.  Instead, I got a charming and quirky character study of lonely people in everyday situations, and not a dead parrot to be seen.  It would be totally unfair of me to judge Palin's writing by my inappropriately targeted expectations--after all, he didn't write the blurb, and to expect that all he can ever do is more Pythoneque humor would be to do him a great disservice and ignore the fundamental need for change that all humans have--but nonetheless I read the entire book waiting for the big laugh payoff that never came.  Of course I was disappointed--in fact this book is by far more tragic than comic.  There are moments of dry wit, but this tale of an underemployed postal worker aspiring to the all-too-flawed greatness of Ernest Hemingway grants its antihero a Pyrrhic victory at best, and is much more a contemplation of the smallness of our lives rather than a heartwarming and uplifting tale of greatness achieved.  As such it is worth a read, once you've caught up with all the other reading you'd like to do.	2000-12-17
US	53011885	R3GVMQAUNRXN55	0812550722	740618247	Snake Eyes	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Enjoyable reading a la Elmore Leonard	While Richard Hoyt seems to me not quite in the leagues with James Hall, Michael Connelly, and Dennis Lehane, he can still captivate and entertain, and his books are always worth a look.  Snake Eyes, like so many Elmore Leonard novels, is not really so much about who-done-it.... as much as it is about the characters and their observations on the situations in which they find themselves.  In this book, two people are murdered and cattle are deliberately infected with anthrax--it doesn't take a genius to figure out from the very limited number of possibilities who is responsible, but along the way we have the delight of sharing the company of John Denison, who seems rather like a private eye from the beat or hippie generations.  His Indian (Native American) partner Willy Prettybird doesn't play much of a role in this book except to set up the speculations on the Great Hoop of Life and do a bit of tracking that those redskins seem to do so well.  It's not offensive, but it seemed to me to be the weak point of the book that Prettybird didn't play a larger role.  There is almost no resemblance to Tony Hillerman's works, which fully engage one in the culture he writes about.<br />If you like this one, I'd also recommend the other Richard Hoyt books, particularly Fish Story, Trotsky's Run, and Siskiyou.  It's a shame his work is not more well known.	2000-12-08
US	53011885	R3DZ3ITZI1DJ67	0385332912	689073601	Out of Sight	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Leonard's Usual High Quality	I simply can't agree with those reviewers who said that the book pales in comparison to the movie. Sure, George Clooney and Jennifer Lopez were fine, but the book is much more believable. As I recall, the ending of the movie was rather different, much more Hollywood and unlikely, but it fit the traditional happy ending formula regardless of however implausible it was given the characters. Leonard doesn't fall for that, and the book is so much the better for it. Instead of a total change of life for the two leads, the book follows them through an impulse. They act on it but ultimately remain true to their overall ideals, upbringing, and personalities.<br />Leonard is very good at writing quirky, interesting characters and situations, and Out of Sight is the equal of his best works. It is extremely gratifying to find an author in this genre who doesn't get fixated on a single series, repeating the same characters and situations endlessly, and it is similarly gratifying to read an author not caught up in the &quot;500 page book syndrome&quot;--finally someone who doesn't need an angry editor unafraid to wield a large eraser unsparingly and unstintingly, as I do in this sentence.<br />I've just finished reading Snake Eyes by Richard Hoyt, an equally talented but lesser known writer than Elmore Leonard--if you like Leonard, I'd strongly recommend giving Hoyt a chance.	2000-12-07
US	53011885	R3GP795MQTMCX9	0380703831	326809904	Tricks	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Usual High Standard 87th Precinct Book	If you've read any Ed McBain, you know what to expect--he established his style long ago and doesn't deviate, at least in the 87th Precinct series. These are all well written police procedurals, with a large cast of interesting characters, although character development isn't really the name of the game for McBain. Instead, these are plot driven books, about unusual (but usually believable) crime--Tricks features a troup of murdering circus midgets posing as kids at Halloween! And McBain is careful not to keep his characters in &quot;series limbo&quot;; although they don't age quite the same as you and I, things do happen to them--this book features an event that occurs to undercover decoy Eileen Burke that resonates through many of the subsequent books. It's a shame so many of the books in this series are out-of-print; they are good, quick reads. Bring 'em back!	2000-11-30
US	53011885	R2CIFHLQ2HMP2R	0380788314	173946565	Einstein's Bridge	Books	3	3	12	N	N	What a strange book!	Okay, kids, here's a quick quiz.  If a book is labelled prominently &quot;A novel of Hard Science Fiction&quot;  then: a) take it as a warning that the book will be dull b) take it as a threat that you won't understand the plot without a Ph.D. in quantum physics c) take it as an indication that the author can't write dialogue or do characterisation to save his life d) expect all the plot devices of &quot;regular&quot; science fiction, like time travel and fiendish aliens, but with &quot;good&quot; explanations e) the author will use the word &quot;quark&quot; as often as possible<br />Hah!  You thought it was going to be a multiple choice test, didn't you?  But no, and neither is this book quite as bad as the warning on the cover might lead you to believe.  (I wonder if the Surgeon General has started requiring the labelling of &quot;hard&quot; sci-fi, or was it simply a public service offered by the publisher?)  However, given that it is &quot;hard&quot; sci-fi, it is plot-driven; and given that the author admits that he had written 80% of the novel before the basic premise fell through in the real world, it is surprisingly entertaining.  No profound philosophical issues here, just a tale of alien invasion, time travel, and US politics in a very odd mix.  The first half of the book concerns an alternate future in which we are invaded and almost destroyed by insectoid aliens--the author makes fun of himself with one character writing a giant mutant fire ant book.  Things go awry, as they are wont to do during invasions of evil insectoid aliens, and the only possibility to save not only the human race, but our ENTIRE UNIVERSE (no small measures here) is for our plucky heros, with the help of our good alien friends, to travel back in time, raise a fortune, meddle in politics and get Dan Quayle on the ticket with George Bush.  Yes, it's nuts, and in the hands of a writer like Keith Laumer this would have been such good fun. But Cramer just isn't a superb writer, I'm afraid--perhaps his sense of humor is too dry for my taste.  He seems to all too often veer off into unconvincing explanations of WHY THIS COULD ACTUALLY HAPPEN, when we are talking about such unlikely but tried and true staples of sci-fi like time travel and alien invasion.  (And frankly, he missed one: after explaining why giant mutant ants are impossible, he turns around and gives us.....giant alien ants...oops.)....afraid--perhaps his sense of humor is too dry for my taste.  He seems to all too often veer off into unconvincing explanations of WHY THIS COULD ACTUALLY HAPPEN, when we are talking about such unlikely but tried and true staples of sci-fi like time travel and alien invasion.  (And frankly, he missed one: after explaining why giant mutant ants are impossible, he turns around and gives us.....giant alien ants...oops.)....	2000-11-28
US	53011885	R2DYWCT0O1MBCI	0425073149	676498654	Eyes Of Heisenberg	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Grim vision of genetic engineering by the author of Dune	This book takes place in the distant future, tens of thousands of years from now.  It is a grim look at a world shaped by genetic engineering which is run by the Optimen, sterile humans whose genetic makeup supposedly allows them to live forever though pharmacology.  Even &quot;meres&quot;--&quot;normal&quot; humans live for hundreds of years, so to control the population various things such as contraceptive gas are used, and breeding is strictly controlled.  Against the regime of the Optimen are the Cyborgs and a group of humans supporting natural birth, and a mysterious outside force--could it be Nature itself, or perhaps God?  One of the major resolutions smacks of a Greek Deus ex machina, and the very ending stuck me as pretty horrifying, but Herbert didn't really explore the ethical consequences of his &quot;solution.&quot;  However, it was a pretty good, albeit quick read--it's a slim volume.  Worth a look if you run across it, not really worth going out on a hunt for.	2000-11-18
US	53011885	R1OHHSS0UBZEJW	0812566785	376773427	Rainbow Mars	Books	2	5	9	N	N	Hommage to early sci-fi and fantasy	If you are an historian of science fiction, you will undoubtedly catch all the references to Burroughs and Bradbery et al, and be greatly amused by Niven's work.  This &quot;novel&quot; actually consists of one novella and several short stories which were written earlier, all about &quot;time-travel&quot; which, for Niven in this book, is really fantasy-travel, as his hero unknowlingly goes off into the realms of fiction, meeting werewolves, unicorns, the aforesaid Martians, and other stange and wonderful beings.  As such, it isn't, of course, science fiction at all.  I found it strange that the novella, which happens after the short stories, was put at the beginning of the book--the novella reveals or hints strongly at what happens in the stories to the extent that whatever wit or suspense they might have had was totally spoiled for me.  But I guess the novella is newer than the stories, and the marketing people thought that you or I would have put this book down if we'd opened it and immediately read something published elsewhere.  Overall, I found this quite disappointing; not at all the quality I'd expect from the author of Ringworld.  But then, IMHO Niven has never again lived up to the quality of his early work--although his ideas are intriuging, he can't write a real character to save his life.  I wonder if his collaboration with other authors is a recognition of his weaknesses as a writer.	2000-11-18
US	53011885	R1DXGUTCCC8H8H	0312118406	551641485	K-Pax: A Novel	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Captivating character study and social commentary	I picked this book up and read it in one day, at two sittings. It's an intriguing novel done as a psychiatric case study of the main character, &quot;prot&quot;, a homeless man who believes himself to be from the planet K-PAX. The story is a voyage of discovery into prot's character and a social commentary on the ills of our time. Although there are touches of sadness, the overall quality of the book is optimism. I didn't find it as compelling as the other reviewers, although it was certainly enjoyable and well done. I don't see this as a must-read for sci-fi fans at all--it isn't by any means a science fiction novel. Rather, for those of you interested in the human condition and in people; for those of you willing to take a touch of magical realism with your reality, this will be a good read.	2000-11-12
US	53011885	R35BVSP4DD9E77	0060988061	187685726	Double Take: The Art of the Celebrity Makeover	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Incredible transformations, a bit slim on the details	This book is an incredible photographic documentation of the power of makeup, etc; and you will understand how much you can transform yourself when you see Devon Cass turn himself into Cher.  Many of the transformations are just incredible--in particular my jaw dropped at Cher, the guy who did Marilyn, and the woman who did Mariah Carey.  And there is lots of information on how to get there, with fascinating half-face makeup shots, advice on wardrobe, and even famous lines of the stars to give you something to say once you've gotten there.  I dare say, though, that this book is, for most people, going to be something to gawk at rather than a guide to a halloween costume.  Too often necessary details are missing--you are told what to get, then sometimes it is kind of &quot;then go ahead and put it on the way Cher does&quot;....not all that helpful all the time.  But still, there's tons here, and lots of people will enjoy this book--I'd heartily recommend it for all you crossdressers out there; buy two and give one to a friend!	2000-11-11
US	53011885	ROAP64M34XOC3	0380726238	733601761	A Drink Before the War (Patrick Kenzie/Angela Gennaro Novels)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Vivid literature!	This is a terrific book, superbly written by Dennis Lehane.  I've liked the characters so much I haven't missed a single book in the series, and each one is of the highest quality.  This is the first of the Patrick Kenzie/Angie Gennaro series, and the characters are vivid, dialogue is witty and intelligent, the plot complex and believable, and the description of scenes and action terrific.  At times Lehane is poetic in his turns of phrases.  Others have likened him to Robert Parker--the similarity is purely superficial in that both have Boston private eyes who use snappy dialogue.  Lehane is without a doubt by far the superior writer.  His novels are worthy literature, whereas Parker's are, well, a fun read.  It seems to me that there is a terrific new generation of writers out there, from Michael Connelly to James Hall, who cover the territory of writing--characterisation, plot, description, tone--so wonderfully that I never want to miss one of their books.  I'd add Dennis Lehane to that list.  This book has my highest recommendation.	2000-11-07
US	53011885	ROCJLD45KTGOM	0425174018	398480832	Hush Money (Spenser)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	I have liked Spenser, but this was definitely disappointing	I've read a lot of the Spenser books, and I've always enjoyed them, but this latest effort was below par. There seemed to be me to be two fairly substantial flaws: the absurdly unbelievable &quot;resolution&quot; that never gets sufficient explanation; and Parker's own conservative bent that really becomes obnoxious in this book. He takes on political correctness, but regardless of how he tries to let himself off the hook--&quot;I don't really have anything against gays, it's just that all of them in this book are lowlifes&quot;--it comes off badly, frankly. Liberal academics come off even worse. The Spenser series has always been as much (if not more) an opportunity for Parker's societal satire and commentary as it has been about detecting; but this time he made such straw men of his characters that the book suffered.<br />On the plus side, the dialogue is as snappy as ever, which is why I've always enjoyed Spenser. I hope, having trashed academia (we really aren't all bad) and gays, Spenser, Parker and Hawk can take on some new, more worthy targets.	2000-11-07
US	53011885	RMXC560R3PBL	0312971346	442694342	High Five (Stephanie Plum, No. 5) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Another Winner	I've read all the Stephanie Plum books up to this one--at the time of this review Hot Six is out but I've not yet gotten it.  This one, High Five, is top of the line.  I especially enjoyed these last two books, Four to Score and High Five.  Janet Evanovich has hit her stride with snappy dialogue, whacky characters and hilarious relationships.  The plot is a little thin--you kind of wonder why everyone can't see it, given that Stephanie, Joe Morelli, and the Feds are all on the same case here, but then you don't really read these books for the plot.  Evanovich gives us a bit of a puzzler at the end--an O. Henry-esque ending that had me laugh out loud.  This series is a lot of fun, and I really enjoy it.  I hope she gets off some of the running gags, though.  The car thing is losing its appeal....how much longer can that go on?	2000-11-05
US	53011885	R2ZHQS5UOTPLJC	0440224705	495286249	Hard Time (V. I. Warshawski)	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Darker than most	Sara Paretsky brings back her V.I Warshawski series, and little has changed.  V.I. is still her feminist best, a complex character with a lot of anger toward others--much deserved, but not all--who finds relationships difficult.  It's refreshing to have a main character who isn't totally likeable.  I'd guess that V.I. represents a lot of the viewpoints Paretsky herself holds, especially given the plotting of her novels and the role of women in them.  I've read the other Warshawski novels and this one is much the same; although I found the plot somewhat simpler than the earlier works--sometimes almost unbelievably so.  This is the first Warshawski novel I've been ahead of V. I.--&quot;why doesn't she see that?&quot; isn't a good thing to think when reading a detective story. But even so, this book is more complex and darker in tone than most female detectives--and most male detectives, for that matter.  Certainly Janet Evanovich and Sue Grafton (and Robert Parker!) are easier, snappier reads; but nowhere near as meaty.  I really wish that the marketing departments would exercise more care on the book blurbs--I thought this one gave away far too much and ruined much of the suspense.  Still, a worthy contribution to the series.	2000-11-02
US	53011885	R3HK1M7FKK54Y2	0226521397	433761521	Emotion and Meaning in Music (Phoenix Books)	Books	5	40	44	N	N	Incredible insights into the nature of music	How very few thinkers on music dare even consider the topic of emotion and meaning in music shows the difficulty of the task Meyer sets himself.  This is a truly important book--far beyond any history or theoretical tome I've ever read, this aims right at the heart of what music is about.  It is very tough going--this was adapted from Meyer's doctoral dissertation, but it repays every effort made.  Meyer's mind is enviably far-ranging; he uses examples from the visual arts to the hard sciences and philosophy to make his points.  His later book, Explaining Music, is an easier read, still full of valuable insights but much more oriented toward a theoretical, quasi-Schenkerian approach to music.  But for me, Emotion and Meaning in Music (along with his much later Style and Music) is much more significant, dealing with more profound and much less frequently discussed issues.  This book has my HIGHEST recommndation.	2000-10-29
US	53011885	R1QAKCZY0GKQMN	0821758950	111259670	Cha Cha Cha	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Amusing, but she's gotten better	I turned to Cha Cha Cha after reading Sis Boom Bah, which I thought was totally terrific.  This one was good, but not quite as good as the other.  That makes sense, since Cha Cha Cha is her first book--she's improved with time, like good wine.  But Cha Cha Cha is still quite amusing, worth a read if you are looking for something light and frothy, with clever dialogue and characters.	2000-10-29
US	53011885	R1Y00CKKFVUK42	0226521524	866284940	Style and Music: Theory, History, and Ideology	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A stunning work	Leonard Meyer once again proves he is one of the great thinkers about music in this fantastically wide-ranging book.  The subtitle, Theory, History, and Ideology is not an empty promise--Meyer's discussion is exactly the relationships between Theory and Ideology, especially in Romantic music; how ideology affects compositional practice.  His thoughts on elite egalitatarianism, disguise in music, and the persistence of Romanticism are a must-read for the serious music scholar.  That Meyer's thoughts can scarely be contained within the confines of a book is deomonstrated by his own writing style--fully half of the book is footnoted asides--points brought up by the main text and worthy of discussion but which would side-track the main points if pursued there; almost as if Meyer has written two books in one!  I cannot recommend this book more highly--I think it is one of the most important English language books on music ever written.	2000-10-29
US	53011885	RS4SV6634T0T8	0226115224	785185406	The Rhythmic Structure of Music (Phoenix Books)	Books	4	28	29	N	N	Worthy Effort	Here Cooper and Meyer take on the nature of rhythm in music, using a system of relationships between accents and unaccented or lesser accented notes based on poetic feet.  It is one of the very few attempts to discuss rhythm (beyond a basic categorization such as simple/compound; duple/triple)--that it is not, perhaps, completely successful should not entirely invalidate the effort, or indeed, the achievement.  Certain topics are not entirely well-explained. I remember that as a student I asked Professor Meyer the difference between two particular terms used in the book--his answer was that he could no longer remember (this was probably 15 years after the book was written) and that the distinction no longer seemed important to him.  True, the book was jointly authored and perhaps this distinction was never fully convincing to Meyer--I don't know.  In spite of this, the book is truly important for introducing and discussing the concept of form as a rhythmic idea.  That rhythm, like pitch, can have hierarchic structures may at first seem counterintuitive; but Cooper and Meyer make a convincing arguement.  And that after some 35 years this book is still in print and has not been superceded speaks volumes.	2000-10-29
US	53011885	R3UK4T12SWEQRY	0807517208	445435571	The Dreams of Hummingbirds: Poems from Nature	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Kids Speak about &quot;The Dreams of Hummingbirds&quot;	Excerpts from letters by two children in fourth grade to the author:<br />&quot;I loved your book.  It was the best.  I liked then all but  I think my favorite would have to be: Lifting a Strawberry from a Bowl of  Fruit.  I think my 2nd favorite would be: Sea Poems.  Me and Rachel had a  blast reading your book.  We had a lot of fun picking out our favorite  poemes.  We realy injoyed your book.  I do not see how you wrote such good  poems.  I never could write such good poems.  I loved your book so  much!<br />Love,<br />Mary Kate&quot;<br />and<br />&quot;I really enjoyed the book  &quot;The Dreams of Hummingbirds.&quot;  I really like to read poems, and  your book had great poems....I have read it a lot.  Mary-Kate and I took  turns reading it and then we read it in the car.  I really liked the poem  &quot;If I Were A Hawk.&quot;  Your book was really good and you did a good  job in writing it.<br />Sincerely,<br />Rachel Wilkins&quot;	2000-08-18
