US	53016168	R2BDLR684NYUWO	041596895X	43380401	Negri on Negri: in conversation with Anne Dufourmentelle	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Excellent introduction to a key thinker of our time	This is a most interesting introduction to the thinking of Antonio Negri, who has emerged as one of the more provocative thinkers of our time.<br /><br />The book is conceived as a series of conversations around approximately 50 entries in a Negrian lexicon, divided into 26 chapters, each of which refers to a letter in the alphabet.<br /><br />There is a mixture of biographical anecdote and conceptual excursion that makes for compelling reading. Those wishing for insight into Negri's personal journey are offered a candid account of his activist 1970s and 80s in Italy and his exile in France. Readers wishing a relatively accessible introduction to Negri's more substantial works are introduced to most of the key concepts in his thinking (empire, multitude, biopolitical production, singularity, kairos, resistance, ...) In the first half of the book, Negri deals with the \\"lovely paradox\\" of self-defeating growth which capitalism has wrought upon itself. In the latter half of the book, Negri develops his alternative of a radical democracy based on a voluntarist, Spinozian materialism.<br /><br />I'm slightly puzzled as to why Negri has chosen Anne Dufourementelle as his interlocutor. Sometimes she is right on the ball, coaxing Negri into very personal observations or a sophisticated line of argument. At other times the interviewer leaves interesting tangents unexplored or indulges into psychoanalytic hobbyhorses (on which Negri has not a lot to say). But I admit that thanks to the sometimes surprising twists in Dufourmentelle's interview tactics, themes weave their threads across the whole length of the book, creating a coherent, multifaceted image of Negri's thinking and biography. Definitely recommended.	2005-03-08
US	53016168	R2KSW8B2IV1QCP	0893818089	778875031	Summit : Vittorio Sella : Mountaineer and Photographer : The Years 1879-1909	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Sella the Great	This is one of the key volumes in any collection of mountain photography books. Sella was one of the earliest and most accomplished practitioners of this difficult discipline and this Aperture monograph does full justice to the importance and beauty of his work. The book, measuring approximately 28x31 cm, has been handsomely and meticulously produced. The quality of the photo reproductions is very good, capturing the spirit of the originals. There is a very pleasing layout, with pictures alternatingly presented on white and grey backgrounds. Formats vary, with about 25 photos spilling over onto a second page. There are two large foldout panoramas: one taken from the summit of the Elbrus and the other one representing the Baltoro area in the Karakoram. As far as I can tell, the 3:4 aspect ratio of the original 30x40 and 18x24 plates has been respected.<br /><br />The documentary value of Sella's images is undisputed. But Sella's images surely transcend the boundaries of a purely documentary kind of photography. Take one of the earliest images shown in the book, taken on the Aletsch Glacier in the Bernese Alps in 1884 (Sella was 25 then). It is not easy to reconstruct the standpoint of the photographer, but I suspect that he is looking towards the L&ouml;tschenl&uuml;cke, with the the onset of the Sattelhorn ridge barely visible to the left and a sizable chunk of the Mittaghorn-Gletscherhorn chain in full view on the right hand side of the pass. It must be early morning as the light is slanting from the East, softened by a disperse cloud cover above the Mittaghorn. The picture is titled `Crevasse on the Aletsch Glacier, Alps, July 18, 1884', but for me the real protagonist is the mysterious human figure nearly in the centre of the picture. It is the silhouet of a mountaineer in period attire, including the typical Alpenhut. He has left ropes, ice axe and other climbing gear behind and is studying a document. We can presume it is a map, although from the shape and size of the document and the climber's posture, we could deduce it is a kind of letter he is studying. The incongruity between the majestic surroundings, bathed in ethereal light, and the hard-etched casualness of the human figure remind us of the surrealists who would be experimenting with strange juxtapositions only a few decades later.<br /><br />A later example of a fascinating image is the picture on page 111, showing the Duke of Abruzzi and guides climbing the Chogolisa icefall in the Karakoram range. The diffuse colours, the halos around some of the ice towers and the brushed effect in the gloomy sky place the picture in the Pictorialist tradition (&agrave; la early Stieglitz or Steichen). Again, there is an oddity which makes the attentive observer pause. The first climber has taken a position on a small shoulder and is overlooking the terrain they have to tackle next. Clearly, he is not belaying the second man (presumably the Duke) who, assisted by another guide, is attacking an ice bulge under an ice cave. Curiously the lead climber has left his ice axe behind on a little ledge in front of this ice cave lower down.  It is difficult to say why in that particular situation anyone would feel tempted to leave behind this essential piece of climbing apparel. As in the Aletschgletscher picture, there is a detail in this picture, a slight twist of perspective, which reveals a deeper layer beyond the purely documentary.<br /><br />The essays accompanying the pictures vary somewhat in quality. Individual chapters are ordered chronologically, reflecting Sella's progress as he worked through his major campaigns in the Alps, Caucasus, Yukon, Ruwenzori, Sikkim and Karakoram. Paul Kallmes' short introductory essays to the chapters are informative and well written, if only a little short. Wendy Watson's concluding essay \\"Picturing the Sublime\\" is a disappointment. Although it contains a lot of interesting biographical material, Watson fails to penetrate to the heart of whatmakes Sella's photography truly great. Compare this to Ansel Adam's all too brief but very insightful introductory essay where the artist and master practitioner reveals something of what it takes to create the particular spatial depth in mountain photographs. Whilst Watson occasionally tends to hyperbole, Adams' language is movingly poetic, but remains focused and precise.<br /><br />The book ends with a notes section, a bibliography and a very good timeline. This is worth studying in detail as it includes some startling anecdotes. For instance, in December 1892 Sella traveled by train from Dover to London. During the journey he leaned too far out of the window, thereby striking his head on the tunnel wall. After spending two weeks in coma, he fully recovered from his skull fracture.<br /><br />We also have to wait until the very final pages of the book to see two pictures of the man himself, both taken at very old age. One wonders how he looked like when as a young man of 25 he wandered through the Alps with his 30x40 camera ...lla's photography truly great. Compare this to Ansel Adam's all too brief but very insightful introductory essay where the artist and master practitioner reveals something of what it takes to create the particular spatial depth in mountain photographs. Whilst Watson occasionally tends to hyperbole, Adams' language is movingly poetic, but remains focused and precise. <br /> <br />The book ends with a notes section, a bibliography and a very good timeline. This is worth studying in detail as it includes some startling anecdotes. For instance, in December 1892 Sella traveled by train from Dover to London. During the journey he leaned too far out of the window, thereby striking his head on the tunnel wall. After spending two weeks in coma, he fully recovered from his skull fracture. <br /> <br />We also have to wait until the very final pages of the book to see two pictures of the man himself, both taken at very old age. One wonders how he looked like when as a young man of 25 he wandered through the Alps with his 30x40 camera ...	2005-02-06
US	53016168	RN9RWHDVP7MP0	0140074481	706208703	Life and Times of Michael K: A Novel (King Penguin)	Books	4	8	15	N	N	Coetzee: philosopher and novelist	The elementary tension between the orders of the 'symbolic' and the 'real' is the foundation which supports Coetzee's narrative imagination. Simplified, the 'symbolic' is the realm of language, which at the same time grounds and destroys our lifeworld. Words are elementary particles that coalesce in ideologies. These ideologies lead to partisanship, conflict and ultimately war. The book's protagonist, Michael K., is someone who is committed to leave behind the realm of the symbolic. He drops out of the war, drops out of human society, out of the magic spell of language in a universe that is enveloped by silence, and supported by selflessness, a slow metabolism, a deep identification with animate and inanimate nature and by moral indifference.<br />K's dominion is the 'real', that which according to Lacan, 'resists symbolisation absolutely'. The real is that which paradoxically gives meaning to the symbolic order and, at the same time, fundamentally escapes symbolisation. Human beings cannot thrive in the order of the real. They simply suffocate by an absence of meaning. The Life and Times of Michael K. is a philosophical thought experiment: Coetzee has created an avatar which he sends out on the vast and dark ocean of the real to study how he survives in the face of this immensity. What we are reading then is a phenomenological study of a human being who tries to carve out a foothold of utmost symbolic precariousness ('mother', 'earth') at the treshhold of the great black hole of meaninglessness.<br />I am convinced that Coetzee's argument is basically metaphysical, not ethical. The South African context has led to a strong and unjustified moral and political bias in the reading of this author. J.M. Coetzee is not Nadine Gordimer. Nowhere in this book is there a condemnation of the ravages of war. The violence is simply there, as an inevitable part of the symbolic order. Michael K. is not a pacifist: for him the war simply does not exist.<br />It is difficult to evaluate this book. As a novel it has enormous merit but also a number of flaws. What troubles me most is the difference in mood and style between the brief second part (narrated by the rehabilitation camp doctor) and the two other sections (where the narrative is told from K's point of view). I believe that Coetzee added the final two parts to show how the human, symbolised world deals with the mystery of K's appearance. Clearly, neither force nor bribery allow to neutralise the disquieting impact of the 'real'. From a didactic point of view this narrative strategy may work, but I am less certain that it enhances the quality of the book as a novel.<br />The philosophical mind and the writerly imagination are subject to different laws and dynamics. It is very difficult to have them work in sync. Kafka and Nietzsche could do it. Coetzee is not (yet) in the same league. His scintillatingly clear prose and his philosophical acuity are still forming a somewhat uneasy marriage.  But this only fuels our hope for a definitive, 21st century masterpiece by this very gifted artist.valuate this book. As a novel it has enormous merit but also a number of flaws. What troubles me most is the difference in mood and style between the brief second part (narrated by the rehabilitation camp doctor) and the two other sections (where the narrative is told from K's point of view). I believe that Coetzee added the final two parts to show how the human, symbolised world deals with the mystery of K's appearance. Clearly, neither force nor bribery allow to neutralise the disquieting impact of the 'real'. From a didactic point of view this narrative strategy may work, but I am less certain that it enhances the quality of the book as a novel. <br />The philosophical mind and the writerly imagination are subject to different laws and dynamics. It is very difficult to have them work in sync. Kafka and Nietzsche could do it. Coetzee is not (yet) in the same league. His scintillatingly clear prose and his philosophical acuity are still forming a somewhat uneasy marriage.  But this only fuels our hope for a definitive, 21st century masterpiece by this very gifted artist.	2003-12-10
US	53016168	R1X99XGAMY0J4W	0140296409	929204920	Disgrace: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A profound philosophical fable	I have read this book as a philosophical fable that pits two fundamentally different world against each other. The protagonist - a professor in English Literature - is representative for the symbolised world - mediated by language, images, and abstract principles - we all live in. It is not a perfect world, but despite all its implicit violence and unfulfilled yearnings, it is the world we know best and love most. That is why David Lurie after all instills some sympathy is the reader.<br />The other world is represented by the ubiquitous dogs in the story and by Lurie's daughter, who lives a modest life in a rural setting. Animals have never been admitted to the symbolised world of human beings. Their life is lived outside the whirlpool of signs and meaning. It is a 'dumb' world, if you like, but with its own kind of somatic intelligence: they are in touch with the earth, with their own unarticulated being. The deep and unbridgeable schism between the 'real' and the 'symbolic' (to use Lacanian categories) is epitomised by the unability to communicate about and to come to a shared understanding of what father and daughter experienced during a violent assault at the farm. Lurie tries to convince Lucy that she has to prosecute the perpetrators, but she refuses to articulate the violation, to personalise it and to let her actions lead by abstract principles such as 'justice', 'friendship' and 'fatherhood'.<br />Whilst her motives remain opaque to the reader, we understand that this is more than waywardness or fatalism. There is a certain kind of primal strength in her behaviour that draws respect and awe. The tension between these two worlds is not resolved by the end of the novel. Despite all the upheavals, Lurie remains stricken in his familiar universe of language and Lucy encapsulates herself in the mute routines of the rural life and traditional customs. Maybe the father's fascination for song is an indication that he has an intimation of the pre-cognitive origins of our life world that his daughter seems to inhabit. But is only an intimation and by the end of the book David and Lucy have drifted off in their private universes.<br />'Disgrace' is an uneasy and provocative book. Coetzee confronts us with impossible choices that incrust themselves in one's mental armoury: a powerful strategy for  renewal.s of our life world that his daughter seems to inhabit. But is only an intimation and by the end of the book David and Lucy have drifted off in their private universes. <br />'Disgrace' is an uneasy and provocative book. Coetzee confronts us with impossible choices that incrust themselves in one's mental armoury: a powerful strategy for   renewal.	2003-11-01
US	53016168	R1K5YSMJW19PIO	1861083300	924191570	Rangefinder: Equipment, History, Techniques	Books	2	35	40	N	N	Definitely a missed opportunity	Books by the Hicks and Schultz tandem are a hit and miss affair. Sadly this book is in the latter category. I am not saying that this book is completely without merit, but there is a mismatch between its target audience, its format and its content.<br />Let me try and list my main points of criticism:<br />* Already, the introduction bodes ill: \\"Because the field is so vast, it is impossible to be comprehensive about the older equipment; therefore, some of your favourite cameras may be omitted. Don't worry about it. Likewise, you may feel that we've got the balance wrong with new kit. Again, don't worry about it. This is a book by enthusiasts, for enthusiasts'.<br />From a reader's point of view this is nonsensical and it shows that the pair started out on this book with a very fuzzy editorial concept. The choice of which camera systems to treat in more depth than others is a crucial editorial decision in this kind of book and should not be left to personal predilections only. It is only fair that the Leica system gets discussed in more detail than, for example, the Russian Zorkii. But H&S do not like the classic Contax and the system is given very short shrift indeed: `The trouble is that classic Contaxes are wilfully complicated (...); and the shutter resembles nothing so much as a roll-top desk made of brass slats.' I don't think that any budding rangefinder enthusiast is helped by this kind of idiosyncratic assessment. There are many other instances of this kind of sloppy, arbitrary and sometimes outright dumb criticism: swing-lens are not covered at all but are characterised as a `curiosity, because most of them are not very useful'. Tell that to great artists such as Pentti Samalaahti who built a career on these kinds of cameras. Another victim is the Mamiya 6 rangefinder camera. Still very sought after because of its excellent handling and optical qualities, the camera is simply not discussed at all. The reason is that H&S do not like the square format and hence they choose to ignore it. The Fuji RF cameras (6x7 and 6x9) are discussed in exactly 7,2 lines (with, I admit, a picture of the GSW 690 Mk I somewhere 70 pages apart). There are many other inexplicable omissions (classic compact rangefinders such as Canonet QL17 and Minolta 7sII arenot discussed at all). A book that is marketed as `the' guide to users and collectors should aim for comprehensiveness, and not succumb to the kind of arbitrariness in selecting material for inclusion as demonstrated in the present volume.<br />* I agree that it is not easy to systematise the sprawling subject of rangefinder and direct view cameras. But the classification proposed by H&S is erratic and does in many instances not help the newbie rangefinder enthusiast. We know that the authors have a boon for the Swiss-made Alpa (S)WA cameras and they are separately and prominently treated under a heading `multi-format cameras', because they accept backs for different sizes. However, it would be more logical to group the Alpa with, for example, the Silvestri T30, the Cambo Wide, the Linhof Technar, the Plaubel SW690, Horseman 612,  and the Corfield WA67 (of which only the latter two discussed, the Plaubel is only mentioned in passing elsewhere) as rigid body (super) wide angle cameras (most of them accept backs of various sizes). Now the discussion is fragmented over `multi-format', `panoramic' and `other current rigid-bodied 4x5 cameras'. Confusing indeed. The section on large format cameras is equally muddled: look at how it is structured:<br />LARGE FORMAT<br /> (`Baby' 6x7 and 6x9 cameras)<br /> 4x5 technical and press cameras<br /> NPC<br />GRAN VIEW<br /> Other current rigid-bodied 4x5 cameras<br /> Graphics/Speed Graphic<br /> MPP<br /> Other format<br /> POLAROID CAMERAS<br />Wouldn't this be more clearly structured?<br /> LARGE FORMAT<br /> - Baby cameras<br /> -  4x5 press cameras<br />  Graflex cameras<br />  MPP<br />  Other press cameras (Linhof)<br />  - Rigid body (wideangle) 4x5 cameras<br />  Gran View<br />  Alpa<br />  Others<br /> - Polaroid cameras<br /> - Other formats<br />* Although the book numbers 181 pages, it could easily have been printed on, say, 80 pages. Size of fonts, line spacing and margins have been set at ridiculously large values.  The book looks as if it has been printed for 8 year old children. Pages are 18 cm wide, only half of which is filled with text (1 column 9 cm wide). In short, the information density of a given page is very low. That would be ok if we were dealing with a coffee table book. The real rangefinder enthusiast would be happy with some more substance, I am sure.<br />* Further to the previous point, an inordinate amount of space in this book is reserved for pictures by the authors. In many cases they fail to make a point or support the argument in the text (if there is one). The photography itself is wholly unremarkable: in its motivic choice and composition it is classic to the point of being tedious. It is a pity that at least 25 of the 181 pages are allocated to full-page photographs, with many others sctattered over the text.<br />* A cosmetic point, but one which continues to distract the reader, is the quality of the photographs of cameras, lenses and other gear. Probably to enhance the feeling of nostalgia, these have all been printed in a black and white that is particularly `dirty' and unappealing: very contrasty and with a lot of grain. Sadly, in many cases the perfunctory quality of the photographys obscures details that could be of great interest to the real rangefinder enthusiast.<br /><br />All in all this book gives the impression of being compiled opportunistically and in great haste. For the beginning rangefinder enthusiast it would perhaps have been better to produce a book on the great classic 24x36 rangefinder systems of yesterday and today: Leica, Contax, Canon, Nikon, Voigtl&auml;nder. For the connoisseur I would have wished much more depth and a more systematic covering of the field. Given the book as it is now, I would prefer to see it published in a slim paperback volume, for quick reference, for half the price.gle) 4x5 cameras <BR>         Gran View<BR>         Alpa<BR>        Others<BR> - Polaroid cameras<BR> - Other formats<br />* Although the book numbers 181 pages, it could easily have been printed on, say, 80 pages. Size of fonts, line spacing and margins have been set at ridiculously large values.  The book looks as if it has been printed for 8 year old children. Pages are 18 cm wide, only half of which is filled with text (1 column 9 cm wide). In short, the information density of a given page is very low. That would be ok if we were dealing with a coffee table book. The real rangefinder enthusiast would be happy with some more substance, I am sure. <br />* Further to the previous point, an inordinate amount of space in this book is reserved for pictures by the authors. In many cases they fail to make a point or support the argument in the text (if there is one). The photography itself is wholly unremarkable: in its motivic choice and composition it is classic to the point of being tedious. It is a pity that at least 25 of the 181 pages are allocated to full-page photographs, with many others sctattered over the text. <br />* A cosmetic point, but one which continues to distract the reader, is the quality of the photographs of cameras, lenses and other gear. Probably to enhance the feeling of nostalgia, these have all been printed in a black and white that is particularly `dirty' and unappealing: very contrasty and with a lot of grain. Sadly, in many cases the perfunctory quality of the photographys obscures details that could be of great interest to the real rangefinder enthusiast.<br /> <BR>All in all this book gives the impression of being compiled opportunistically and in great haste. For the beginning rangefinder enthusiast it would perhaps have been better to produce a book on the great classic 24x36 rangefinder systems of yesterday and today: Leica, Contax, Canon, Nikon, Voigtländer. For the connoisseur I would have wished much more depth and a more systematic covering of the field. Given the book as it is now, I would prefer to see it published in a slim paperback volume, for quick reference, for half the price.	2003-10-18
US	53016168	R4OZXK6O5TFGI	8846201973	412812703	City (Italian Edition)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Follow Barrico on a splendid tour through his City	Barrico's 'City' seems, in all its fragmented splendour, a thoroughly modern book. Yet, at the same time it casts a long glance back to the origins of the novel as a Western cultural invention, emulating the picaresque models of Cervantes and Rabelais, or the 'sentimental' journeys of Laurence Sterne. Barrico says he has conceived of the book as the plan of a (European) town, with its irregular, organically grown quarters, streets, buildings. Reading the book then amounts to an exploratory ramble through this city, with sudden twists and overlaps in the narrative as you turn a corner and an unexpected vista opens onto a different neighbourhood. It takes a few pages to get used to, but once one has adjusted to Barrico's pace, the experience becomes utterly engrossing. Barrico has real talent as a story teller; his prose has the directness and vivacity to keep you very involved.<br />It is difficult to say what this book is 'about'. Given the heterogeneous and evolving nature of a city it would be against the spirit of  Baricco's undertaking to outline the see-it-all-in-one-hour tour. A few important themes that emerged from my reading - as the major arteries in this sprawling town - are the importance of personal authenticity and the nature of mentorship. Ultimately, the city becomes a metaphor for human life, which is also a crooked, haphazard affair with many unexpected twists and turns. But at each crossing, we are free to choose our direction, if we really want to. Even the predicament of being a 'genius' doesn't liberate one from making these tough choices, time and again. To understand why that is you'll need to read this book ...	2003-06-13
US	53016168	R1HQR61ADHVZ2D	0374100403	136497293	The Abyss: A Novel	Books	5	32	32	N	N	A great study of a complex psyche	Reading a book by M. Yourcenar, a prose writer of great skill, is invariably a delight. The scope of her novels is epic, the composition is as intricate and carefully crafted as a Beethoven symphony. Here in The Abyss, the main theme of the book - the clash between the impetus of momentous historical forces and the destiny of a single human being - is introduced in the very first sentence of the book. It accompanies the reader throughout the book as an insistent motto theme. Yourcenar's prose is carefully polished and aristocratic and reflects her admirable erudition. It is a language with the colour, texture and depth of a precious fabric or an excellent wine. The pace of the book is naturally rather slow, particularly in its second part where  the alchemist and doctor Zenon has settled down again in Bruges and is given to long bouts of introspection. But the noble pacing is fully in accord with the gravity of the subject matter and the stakes involved. I think the book has lost nothing of its relevance today, a time in which civil rights are being widely curtailed in the name of abstract principles. As such it warrants closer study by those wanting to resist these pressures and to stick to honest and authentic choices.	2003-06-13
US	53016168	R1D2POD13KUYC5	0140441271	411034175	The Letters of the Younger Pliny (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	34	38	N	N	Delightful re-acquaintance with the old Romans	In high school I was an eager student of Latin, and so having read Caesar, Sallustius, Livius and many other great authors in the original, I was under the impression of having a good background in Roman history. And so it came that I didn't read anything about this particular historical period in at least fifteen years. Pliny's letters made me realise how superficial and cliche-ridden my understanding of that epoch was. It seems that as a high school student one is focused on the language to such a degree that the broader outlines of the enveloping history simply recede into the background.<br />As a successful, professional lawyer, as a member of a respected family, patron of a vast network of clients, as an accomplished writer, a more or less efficient administrator and prosperous land owner, Pliny embodies the quintessence of the political and cultural elite in the imperial capital. His carefully groomed letters reveal a fascinating picture of the mature Empire. What emerges from this book is a panoramic picture of a world that is not even very different from our own. Admittedly, the summit of the societal pyramid in 2nd century Rome was populated by a much smaller and more select group of people compared to the upper middle class in the advanced economies of today. But apart from the numbers, the life style of these two groups seems to have a lot of things in common. Take geographical mobility as an example. Pliny was originally descendant from the Como area in Northern Italy. Obviously, most of his time was spent in the capital, where he had a villa at the shores of the Thyrannean Sea. Additionally, he had an estate in what is now Tuscany. Finally there was his wife's estate in Campania, which is pretty far down the heel of the Italian peninsula. Much the same as today's professional elite, and undettered by vastly more primitive means of transportation and communication, Pliny shuttles back and forth between his estates, hundreds of kilometers apart. I take this as anecdotal evidence of the fact that, irrespective of historical epoch, elites have always transcended geographical distance in exercising their professional and social obligations. And many other aspects of Pliny's professional and social life remind us of our life world today. In sum, I find the texture and 'feel' of this collection of letters decidedly modern.<br />Another aspect that filters through Pliny's correspondence is the fact that Rome could be a very dangerous place to live, at least for those in the spotlights of the political scene. The Empire can, perhaps, be best described as a 'quasi-totalitarian' state. A bit like the China of today, or worse. We now from Suetonius' account how damaging and dangerous the paranoia of individuals such as Domitian could be for whoever opposed them. Pliny confirms this through many of his more or less oblique references to Domitian's despotic reign of terror.<br />The final bundle of letters contains the correspondence with the emperor Trajan, whom Pliny obviously reveres. The insights into the workings of Rome's administrative machinery to govern such a vast empire, are fascinating. Ultimately, one is astonished by the patience and competence that this particular emperor brings to bear to the many and sometimes trivial issues that his man in the East requests his advice on. One would think that Trajan would have better things to do. This testifies of the impressive efficiency and robustness of Rome's governance apparatus.<br />This collection of letters is thoroughly recommended to anyone interested in studying the predicament of our own time through the distorting but fascinating mirror of the past.this as anecdotal evidence of the fact that, irrespective of historical epoch, elites have always transcended geographical distance in exercising their professional and social obligations. And many other aspects of Pliny's professional and social life remind us of our life world today. In sum, I find the texture and 'feel' of this collection of letters decidedly modern.  <br />Another aspect that filters through Pliny's correspondence is the fact that Rome could be a very dangerous place to live, at least for those in the spotlights of the political scene. The Empire can, perhaps, be best described as a 'quasi-totalitarian' state. A bit like the China of today, or worse. We now from Suetonius' account how damaging and dangerous the paranoia of individuals such as Domitian could be for whoever opposed them. Pliny confirms this through many of his more or less oblique references to Domitian's despotic reign of terror.<br />The final bundle of letters contains the correspondence with the emperor Trajan, whom Pliny obviously reveres. The insights into the workings of Rome's administrative machinery to govern such a vast empire, are fascinating. Ultimately, one is astonished by the patience and competence that this particular emperor brings to bear to the many and sometimes trivial issues that his man in the East requests his advice on. One would think that Trajan would have better things to do. This testifies of the impressive efficiency and robustness of Rome's governance apparatus. <br />This collection of letters is thoroughly recommended to anyone interested in studying the predicament of our own time through the distorting but fascinating mirror of the past.	2002-12-28
US	53016168	R1G8X8ZENUY3UQ	0500542600	264664194	Lee Miller: Portraits from a Life	Books	5	19	19	N	N	A marvellous memento	Now that we have definitively entered into a troubled 21st century, I am developing a weird kind of nostalgia for the equally troubled previous one. This book, a marvellous memento of the period between 1930 and 1960, does everything to fuel this ambiguous attraction.<br />With portraits of Chaplin, many of the leading Surrealists, Picasso, Stravinsky, T.S. Eliot, Dylan Thomas, Henry Moore and many others, Miller's twin eye Rolleiflex produces a very intimate view of  the artistic scene in the middle of the 20th century.  Some of the pictures were taken in the artist's studio, some in Miller's own studio, but most show the sitters informally and relaxed in mundane surroundings, weaving the mystery of artistic inspiration into the fabric of daily life. Whatever the context, Miller's portraits show the mark of a great artist, with composition, lighting and atmosphere invariably matched to the personality of the sitter. A great deal of her pictures are quite classical in conception, but many are spiced up with an occasional Surrealist wink.<br />The war pictures are a different matter. When Miller registers the ravages of this savage conflict, irony makes way for tragic grandeur. For example, the portrait of a Nazi suicide, daughther of the Leipzig Mayor, reconnects with the dramatic clair obscur of Carravaggio. Many of the images of wrens and ordinary service men reveal the quiet determination of people amidst a whirlwind of extreme violence. One of the most impressive pictures of this period, and in a sense an untypical one, depicts a murdered German prison guard floating in a canal bounding the Dachau camp, producing a mixture of the bucolic and the tragic which is very moving.<br />This book is beautifully produced and is a delight to hold in your hands. The captions that go with the pictures are well written and very informative. I would have wished for a more extensive lead essay by Richard Calvocoressi, but maybe we can find more information elsewhere. Pity also that the UK version of this book sports the Hein Heckroth portrait on its cover, which I do not find one of the most attractive pictures in this collection. But these minor quibbles do not detract for this valuable addition to my library.lso that the UK version of this book sports the Hein Heckroth portrait on its cover, which I do not find one of the most attractive pictures in this collection. But these minor quibbles do not detract for this valuable addition to my library.	2002-12-12
US	53016168	R28CJXC45SW7PX	0385494149	801233492	Enduring Love: A Novel	Books	3	13	18	N	N	Finely written but uninteresting tale of obsession	'Black Dogs' was the first McEwan I read and I found it rather rewarding, so I went on to read most of his earlier books too. However, I felt my liking for this author dwindle as I grew more familiar with the Mc Ewan formula: little tales of obsession with plots collapsing under their own weight typically somewhere halfway through the book. So I left Mc Ewan alone for a while and passed over Enduring Love and Amsterdam. It was through reading marvellous 'Atonement' , his latest novel, that I became convinced again of McEwan's great potential as a novelist. So I returned to Enduring Love. Sadly to say, it suffers from the same flaws as many of his earlier books: it's a description of  a more or less static microcosm seething with obsessive emotions. The protagonists, all of them, are two-dimensional creatures that are fixed in a cramped, ridiculous pose, unable to adapt their psychological or moral outlook as a result of the forces affecting them. Hence, they are unable to support the narrative in a convincing way unto its conclusion.<br />That is not to say that reading this novel is an unpleasant affair. This is a very gifted author that produces prose that is virtuosic in its cinematographic directness. But it is a pity that this impressive gift is not used for loftier purposes. However, with Atonement, McEwan seems to have liberated himself from the creative gridlock he seemed to suffer from. Instead of constraining his literary imagination to the confines of a carefully planned, linear plot, Atonement, according to the author's own statements, grew under his pen in much more organic way. The relinquishing of control over the final shape of the narrative resulted in incomparable depth and richness. I hope McEwan will continue to experiment in this vein and relinquish his infatuation for little, but ultimately uninteresting tales of obsession.	2002-11-18
US	53016168	R3V1VQ1PSXB8O8	0804832951	302058129	The Japanese Mind: Understanding Contemporary Japanese Culture	Books	3	79	84	N	N	A useful introduction	I picked this enjoyable booklet up at Narita Airport on my way home from yet another visit to this interesting country. By the time I landed in Frankfurt I had read it from cover to cover.<br />The book is conceived as a primer. Contributions are organised in brief chapters, each one focusing on one important aspect of Japanese culture. One learns about rituals, aesthethic categories, myths, principles of social organisation, role models, etc. Each chapter concludes with a series of assignments for discussion activities in classes.<br />With short chapters, a glossary and a fairly extensive bibliography, the book is obviously conceived as a broad brush introduction to Japanese culture and a stepping stone towards further study.<br />For those unitiated to this complex and sometimes baffling culture, the modest price of this book is money well spent. But for an in depth treatment one definitely needs to look elsewhere.	2002-11-01
US	53016168	R1K9TOKO0B3AG3	0817441573	226969401	Large Format Nature Photography	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A temptation to move to LF photography	This book is currently on my night table, but I am going to change it for something more soothing. As an avid small and medium format photographer, I have been thinking of moving up to large format photography for some time. Dykinga's book does everything to wet my appetite even further. So it's difficult to get to sleep after having indulged once more into these magnificent images.<br />For me the main attraction of this book lies indeed in the quality of the photography, irrespective of the technique used. All photographers, whatever the gear they use, can benefit from studying these masterly landscape pictures.<br />With respect to view camera technique, Dykinga refers to Leslie Stroebel's book for an exhaustive treatment of the subject. I would think Dykinga' book  - in its broad brush treatment of technique and LF philosophy - to be especially suitable for readers who have not yet made the jump to working with a view camera. Although I can image that seasoned users can pick up a lot of interesting tips and tricks throughout.<br />Currently this is one of my favourite photography books. It happily strengthens me in my resolve to move to large format photography.	2002-11-01
US	53016168	RJW9SXG4IT2K9	047084227X	733232800	The Power of the Tale: Using Narratives for Organisational Success	Books	4	7	8	N	N	The subversive power of the tale ...	This book has obviously been conceptualised as a primer. It provides a broad survey of findings in various fields, particularly psychology and to a lesser extent anthropology, philosophy and linguistics. In the treatment of its material it is very didactic: the language is straightforward and non-technical, themes and issues are gradually introduced and key messages are regularly revisited. 'The Power of the Tale' starts off rather inconspicuously with a short and very general presentation of the main themes of the book. Then it moves on to the central part, consisting of seven chapters in which the role of story-telling is highlighted in a range of different organisations: formal and informal, small and large, temporary and durable, business and non-business. Some of the settings are fictitious transpositions of the author's real-life experiences, others are existing and recognisable organisations. Thus we dwell consecutively in a maturing start-up company, a large car producer, an informal community of practice, Britain's National Health Service, a not-for-profit organisation in the cultural sector and a countrywide society. Each of these settings provides the backdrop for a different way of leveraging the art of story-telling: for building trust, for furthering personal and organisational learning, for dealing constructively with dilemmas, for spurring innovation and self-organisation, and for enriching the strategic conversation.<br />Of course this book implicitly invites to be read as a story. From this vantage point, it reveals a number of interesting subtexts. To my mind, there are at least two protagonists playing a key role in the background of this narrative. First there is 'the stranger', or 'the outsider'. He can be an external or internal consultant, who joins a constituency and reanimates it with the power of story-telling. It can also be a full member of the organisation who, after having developed a certain level of proficiency in the discipline, takes her leave from her erstwhile peer group. This implicitly forces the insight upon us that stories by their very nature are  subversive. The narrative paradigm constitutes a deep antithesis to the command-and-control approach which is still dominating many of our contemporary organisations. Stories are 'Fremdk&ouml;rper', wayward entities that develop their own viral logic once they're out in the open. A commitment to introducing story-telling in an organisation, therefore, is a serious affair. It constitutes a leap of faith which over time literally might change the organisational dynamics beyond recognition. It seems that the capacity for story-telling can only lead a tenuous, unstable existence within the confines of organisations as we know them today.<br />This brings us to the second mysterious protagonist: the 'senior manager' or the 'decision taker'. At first sight he seems conspicuously absent from the scene. But he is present enough, and in not a terribly flattering role, as a 'corporate bully'. Isn't it striking that the capacity for story-telling is, with exception of the start-up company, invariably injected at lower management levels? It's as if the top of the hierarchy is simply incapable of mustering a level of trust in their own organisations that allows them to constructively embrace the power of the tale.<br />If Allan, Fairtlough and Heinzen are right, then we have no choice but to wage a guerilla war in our own organisations. Long term viability is at stake. Whether we like it or not, the larger system we are part of is self-organising. So we'd better measure up and, humbly, unleash the power of story-telling. There are no guarantees, only that we'll be better prepared for the pains of failure and the glories of success. It may not be what the average reader of business books these days likes to read. At least we need to congratulate the authors of this book for their honesty.akes her leave from her erstwhile peer group. This implicitly forces the insight upon us that stories by their very nature are  subversive. The narrative paradigm constitutes a deep antithesis to the command-and-control approach which is still dominating many of our contemporary organisations. Stories are 'Fremdkörper', wayward entities that develop their own viral logic once they're out in the open. A commitment to introducing story-telling in an organisation, therefore, is a serious affair. It constitutes a leap of faith which over time literally might change the organisational dynamics beyond recognition. It seems that the capacity for story-telling can only lead a tenuous, unstable existence within the confines of organisations as we know them today. <br />This brings us to the second mysterious protagonist: the 'senior manager' or the 'decision taker'. At first sight he seems conspicuously absent from the scene. But he is present enough, and in not a terribly flattering role, as a 'corporate bully'. Isn't it striking that the capacity for story-telling is, with exception of the start-up company, invariably injected at lower management levels? It's as if the top of the hierarchy is simply incapable of mustering a level of trust in their own organisations that allows them to constructively embrace the power of the tale. <br />If Allan, Fairtlough and Heinzen are right, then we have no choice but to wage a guerilla war in our own organisations. Long term viability is at stake. Whether we like it or not, the larger system we are part of is self-organising. So we'd better measure up and, humbly, unleash the power of story-telling. There are no guarantees, only that we'll be better prepared for the pains of failure and the glories of success. It may not be what the average reader of business books these days likes to read. At least we need to congratulate the authors of this book for their honesty.	2002-03-15
US	53016168	R3KVMFEMZVE6SA	0679775439	730850906	The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle: A Novel	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Murakami is a master of prose	I read this book whilst travelling in Africa and I vividly remember me sitting late into the night under my mosquito net breathlessly chasing the protagonist ever further into his surrealist labyrinth. The unusual character of the setting - a European reading a book in Western Africa by a Japanese author - simply added to the powerful sense of disorientation. What sticks to my mind two years after reading this book is Murakami's uncanny ability to conjure up images of great physical power. His prose is suggestive to a degree that it literally spills over into the other senses:  I cherish the memory of a number of strong aural, visual and tactile impulses related to various episodes in the book. The centrepiece, for me, is Lieutenant Mamiya's epic narrative of his war-time experiences in Manchuria and Mongolia: a dark metaphysical fable where beauty and death mingle in a deeply poignant way.<br />I have since read no other of Murakami's books. Glossing over some of their back covers I can't escape the impression that  settings, moods and plots seem to vary only a little from book to book. I'd rather stick to the Wind-up Bird Chronicle, then. It'll give me re-reading pleasure for the years to come.	2002-02-28
US	53016168	R3BITX42B47FZR	0471485578	625711214	Reframing Business: When the Map Changes the Landscape	Books	4	20	21	N	N	An introduction to the art of 'landscaping' and 'mapping'	A visit to the business book department usually is not a very uplifting experience. The unabashed shallowness of content and representation reveals the often questionnable intellectual standards of those professionally engaged in the creation of economic value. A thoughtful book such as 'Reframing Business'  is welcome oxygen for someone who finds this lack of discipline deeply troubling.<br />For those in need of convenient shortcuts in dealing with strategic issues, Normann's book carries mixed messages. The good news is that shortcuts are indeed possible. The bad news is that this requires serious conceptual thinking and reformulation of the issues at a higher level of abstraction. The key word, therefore, is 'elegance' rather than 'simplification'.<br />'Reframing Business' talks about 'maps' and 'landscapes'. The landscape denotes the dominating logic of value creation that forms the backbone for a given configuration of business systems. Maps are a metaphor then for the symbolising processes of the mind, the conceptual frameworks we use to make sense of what happens in the business environment. Between these two lines of thought  Normann posits a dialectical relationship: our strategic paradigms are shaped by the existing business context, which in turn is influenced by the mental frameworks we espouse to approach it. The co-evolution between business reconfiguration and mental reframing is the central theme of the book. Normann's approach is obviously indebted to systems theorists such as Maturana and Varela who introduced the idea of a fundamental interdependency between mind and world almost 30 years ago. This is not new and neither are the implications that Normann elaborates from these basic principles: the experience of the outside world as a dynamic continuum of opportunities and the need for an organisational infrastructure that supports recurrent purposeful emergence (autopoiesis) in order to thrive in it.<br />This is the hard part of course for those seeking quick fixes in this book. As the author rightly points out, the ability to look at the world as a continuum of opportunities constitutes a fundamental choice. Normann believes that to a certain extent, this way of being in the world can be consciously learned and a large part of the book is in fact a very cerebral introduction to the sister disciplines of 'mapping' and 'landscaping'. The latter centers on the ability to recognise and shape the business offering as a tool for organising co-production between various players in the environment. 'Mapping' requires conscious 'upframing' of the strategic issues to higher levels of abstraction, which Normann undergirds with a rather generic thinking process.<br />For those with sufficient conceptual agility, Normann's landscaping and mapping toolbox indeed constitutes a rich collection of 'shortcuts' for thinking through strategic issues. They will have no problems of buying into the argument, even if it is occasionally more suggestive than substantial. In fact, for these readers the book will fit snugly into their mental breast-pocket, ready to yield any of the numerous goodies hidden between its covers. However, those readers who have no feeling for the founding principles of this theory, will have a hard time in finding their way in what will seem a sprawling and arcane conceptual edifice.<br />It is clear by now, I hope, that I worked through this book with considerable enthusiasm. However, to my mind it doesn't qualify for a five star rating, for two reasons. An important reservation concerns the kaleidoscopic variety of sources that is mobilised in order to substantiate the main argument. Normann dips into systems theory, cognition theory, social constructionism, complexity theory and much besides. Swiftly and imperceptibly, he crosses disciplinary borders and switches from metaphorical use of concepts into rigorous explanatory mode. I am convinced this methodological eclecticism obscures the argument.  Afocused and economical effort at integrating systems and management science would have yielded a more elegant and timeless contribution.<br />Secondly, as indicated this work takes a conceptual angle in trying to come to grips with the issue of securing organisational viability in a complex environment. This is only part of the story and Normann knows it. In the final chapters on leadership, which I find amongst the weakest of the whole book, he discusses these issues only briefly. Groundedness, authenticity and humility are key aspects of the more spiritual side of leadership and they imperatively need to complement the more cerebral view of leaders as people with a strong capacity 'to perform the mental process of imagining and synthesising in the domain of the upframed conceptual future'. Margaret Wheatley has written eloquently on the 'softer' side of leadership in her books 'A Simpler Way' and 'Leadership and the New Science' but then, as a woman, she can probably afford to strike a more 'emotional' tone in the macho world of management and management science. The problem with Wheatley's book is also that they lack the conceptual incisiveness of Normann's approach. For a combination of intellectual rigour and  humane wisdom we need to move out of management science altogether, with the exception, perhaps of Luc Hoebeke's 'Making Work Systems Better' (also published by Wiley) which in its systemic, sober, low-key approach to the discipline of human value creation does not fail to make a deep impression.<br />Despite these reservations, I have no doubt that Richard Normann's book is a very valuable addition to the management science canon. It deserves to be recommended to thoughtful practitioners and managers.focused and economical effort at integrating systems and management science would have yielded a more elegant and timeless contribution.<br />Secondly, as indicated this work takes a conceptual angle in trying to come to grips with the issue of securing organisational viability in a complex environment. This is only part of the story and Normann knows it. In the final chapters on leadership, which I find amongst the weakest of the whole book, he discusses these issues only briefly. Groundedness, authenticity and humility are key aspects of the more spiritual side of leadership and they imperatively need to complement the more cerebral view of leaders as people with a strong capacity 'to perform the mental process of imagining and synthesising in the domain of the upframed conceptual future'. Margaret Wheatley has written eloquently on the 'softer' side of leadership in her books 'A Simpler Way' and 'Leadership and the New Science' but then, as a woman, she can probably afford to strike a more 'emotional' tone in the macho world of management and management science. The problem with Wheatley's book is also that they lack the conceptual incisiveness of Normann's approach. For a combination of intellectual rigour and  humane wisdom we need to move out of management science altogether, with the exception, perhaps of Luc Hoebeke's 'Making Work Systems Better' (also published by Wiley) which in its systemic, sober, low-key approach to the discipline of human value creation does not fail to make a deep impression.<br />Despite these reservations, I have no doubt that Richard Normann's book is a very valuable addition to the management science canon. It deserves to be recommended to thoughtful practitioners and managers.	2002-02-23
US	53016168	R2JXSM0X4SYX2	0679416781	152918541	The English Patient	Books	4	3	7	N	N	Seductive prose, but what's beyond?	A strange book, this novel. I read it twice in the space of a few years. On my first reading I was mesmerised by Ondaatje's beautifully suggestive prose and the ravishing exoticism of its characters and locations: the Lybian Desert, pre-war Cairo, war-torn Tuscany, ... But on my second reading I fell through the author's magical web of seduction into a great void. The magnificence of Count Almasy turned out to be a vapid pose of a would-be 'universal man'; Kip, the 'war saint', crumbled and became hardly more than a dexterous clown; Caravaggio, the thief, is a poor bugger rumaging the site for dope. And the nurse, well, she just kind of dissolved into thin air. Despite the frantic gesturing, there is nothing that ties these four characters to the earth. Their relationships are static, transitory, ephemeral and remain unexplained. The novel teems with fleeting simulacra: Herodotus' Histories (why not Coupland's Microserfs?), the Giotto frescos, the Tuscan landscape, and many more minutiae of Italian folklore. And of course there is the grand, magnificent desert, that primeval, mystical landscape that suddenly turns into a cardboard background for a cheap film. Think of it, at what point in the book does the desert really become more than a mantra of exotic names? It does, only once, at the very start of the book when the camels, smelling the esoteric aromas emanating from the mysterious healer's phials, are heard shrieking in the distance: a moment of great poetic tension and physical suggestiveness! But otherwise, nowhere we get into the thick of it, as we do in Bowles' Sheltering Sky or Patrick White's Voss. For my part, Ondaatje could have set his novel  in the Borneo jungle or amidst the glistening peaks of the Hindu Kush to similar effect. Finally, there is the war, this violent conflict which is most emphatically present when it is absent, as in the epic scene towards the end of the book where the city of Naples is turned into a ghost city for just a few hours. Ondaatje has written a great novel of our times. There is no depth in this book, only surface. But, God, is this surface beautiful!Ondaatje has written a great novel of our times. There is no depth in this book, only surface. But, God, is this surface beautiful!	2002-01-20
US	53016168	RQTZ2V4EQL4EG	0714839337	946613533	Renzo Piano Building Workshop - Volume 3 (Renzo Piano Building Workshop (Paperback))	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Very, very enjoyable set of books	As a set this is a great achievement. The books are wonderfully produced with glorious photography, lots of drawings and sketches (both of larger structures and details), stylish typography and a clear, rhythmic page layout. It's a genuine feast to the eye. However, I was slightly disappointed by the first volume's first section, in which Buchanan sets the scene for all that is to follow by providing us some conceptual and genealogical background on Piano's art. Buchanan's lead essay is repetitive, diffuse, conceptually thin and strays too far from the substance of Piano's architectural practice. The section on the 'spirit of the workshop' is really a missed opportunity: instead of a detailed picture of the collaborative dynamics in this complex environment, we get a rather glossy account of Piano's role of 'scout, actor and editor' in the design process. The pages on 'early influences' again are rather sketchy, with brief references to a series of mentors and to the role of the Genuese cityscape on Piano's mental map. From then on the book takes wing: I was grateful for the inclusion of the work in the early Studio Piano, the Piano &amp; Rogers venture (Pompidou Centre) and particularly of the fancyful, but fascinating experiments in the Piano and Rice  period. It gives us an idea of the rather exploratory journey Piano had behind him by the time the Building Workshop was established (he was 44 then). Volume I then goes on to document the early years of the workshop. Generally this represents an inconspicuous beginning: we see a lot of fine craftsmanship but there is relatively little that takes your breath away in terms of architectural vision. Compared to the later designs, we see a modesty that is approachable, refreshing and invites careful study. With its mix of full page photographs and  thumbnail pictures, sketches and plans, colours and greytones the book never tires. And this applies to the whole series. A laudable example of serious and effective book design! As a whole I have no reservations in recommending this set to anyone remotely interested in contemporary architecture.ign! As a whole I have no reservations in recommending this set to anyone remotely interested in contemporary architecture.	2002-01-07
US	53016168	R730OX6J5YM8N	0226500438	539030689	The Prince: Second Edition	Books	3	14	21	N	N	Definitely worth spending a few hours on	This little volume makes for some entertaining reading but it is not the supreme Renaissance literary or philosophical masterwork, as some would like us to believe. Based on admittedly sound insights in mass psychology and geopolitics, Machiavelli formulates some practical guidelines for autocratic rulers, helping them to seize power and to hold on to it. By no means the author's intention is to instill his target audience with cruelty and bad faith. His reasoning is thoroughly pragmatic in the sense that it outlines the implications of a particular course of action, substantiated by concrete examples from Machiavelli's own time and from Antiquity.<br />I would say that many observations are still relevant and applicable today. In that sense, The Prince is as good a book on leadership as you will find on the shelves under the Management heading today. As a management consultant, I was quite sensitive to the point that is made in two of the final sections of the book - A prince's personal staff' and 'How flatterers must be shunned' - about the relationship between the prince and his advisers. Machiavelli makes a very good point when he holds forth that \\"The choosing of ministers is a matter of no little importance for a prince; and their worth depends on the sagacity of the prince himself.\\" In other words: a leader gets the advice that he deserves. If the consultancy profession has been taken under fire lately because of malpractices, charlatanism and greed, then this is to a significant extent rooted in the immature and opportunistic attitude of many clients vis-&agrave;-vis their advisers. If external consultants are drawn in to turn the odds in political battles or to relieve the client of responsibilities about decisions he ought to take himself, then, yes, you can be sure that the sharks will come and take their due. It's a matter of choice and vigilance. Machiavelli knew it all along.<br />(Review was based on George Ball's translation in the Penguin Classics series)s)	2001-12-29
US	53016168	R26DNGXY0A6U8C	1555534252	520393551	Herbert Von Karajan: A Life in Music	Books	5	25	25	N	N	A treat, from cover to cover	This is probably the ultimate biography of a complex and controversial personality in recent musical history. The book is conventionally structured: it is based on a detailed chronology supported by a rich factual database on Karajan's accomplishments as an orchestra builder and manager, recording artist and film maker. Stretching to more than 700 pages, the rich detail of Osborne's account certainly is one of the main attractions of this book. We learn a tremendous amount about Karajan's working methods, contract negotiations, concert tours, recording schedules, casting policy, press reviews, etc. As the story progresses Osborne branches out in all kinds of directions, gradually weaving more and more threads into the basic narrative. Given the quality of Osborne's prose this never becomes tedious. And it really does learn us something substantial about the breathtaking speed, economy, tenacity and versatility of the Karajanesque genius. There is no doubt that the book as a whole transcends the merely anecdotal. What emerges is a rich, multifaceted, holographic image of a great artist. What is even more impressive about Osborne's book is that it gives us an idea of what constitutes the essence of great conductorship. Instead of being confronted with woolly and simplistic generalizations about a certain 'Factor X' that allows an individual to coax exactly the right sound from a full symphony orchestra, we see the conceptual foundations of this most elusive of disciplines emerge in all its technical, psychological and somatic richness. Therefore, this book is definitely a must-read for any classical music lover, irrespective of personal predilections with respect to the man himself.	2001-12-27
US	53016168	R2LEXX57UYR1T2	0375421475	339952574	The Shape of a Pocket	Books	4	20	29	N	N	Forget the political pamphleteering	&quot;The Shape of a Pocket&quot; is perfect bedside reading: the essays are short, meditative and carefully crafted. Berger's prose is pure and airy, and only occasionally he trespasses into the contrived and nearly bombastic. That's irritating but understandable as Berger is constantly trying to get to the deeper layers of what it means to make sense of the world through the 'act' of painting. I suppose Berger, on reading these lines, would remark that conceptualising 'to paint' as an 'act' is completely besides the point. Indeed, what he tries to get across is the 'receiving' nature of being-in-the-world as a painter. Being a real artist is a balancing act: it's a state of dynamic equilibrium between 'self' and 'world', between banality and madness. I believe Berger; his writing breathes integrity and wisdom. He has seen things that many mortals only have faint intimations of. That being said I am less sure about the appropriateness of his insights spilling over into the political realm. The complexity of globalisation is, perhaps, of a different nature than the complexity of a brush stroke. I think it shows, in Berger's language: suddenly the delicacy - holographic in its suggestion of colour, depth and texture - evaporates and we are left with the dull taste of cliche and ideology.	2001-12-26
US	53016168	R1MHHMXUA3ZCH7	0002558718	28373672	New Fontana Dictionary of Modern Thought	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A browser's delight	A very useful book. In fact, I use it much more regularly than my Britannica. Where, in a single volume, would you find entries on 'Lolita Syndrome', 'transitional object', 'hydraulic civilisations', 'Equal Rights Amendment' and 'serial music'? In the Fontana Dictionary of Modern Thought, of course. And there is much more to learn in this gem of a book. Really a browser's delight! Hurry up: it's still readily available via amazon.co.uk.	2001-12-26
US	53016168	R1HXZQIYN2D9ID	0374527695	59726640	Scar Tissue: A Novel	Books	4	4	7	N	N	A complex tale of illness and death	&quot;I could call this the history of my family as the history of our characteristic illness. I could also call it the history of an illness as the history of one family&quot;, says Michael Ignatieff at the outset of his novel Scar Tissue. Although the author has built himself a reputation as a scholarly historian, biographer and culture chronicler, this book is by no means a vapid academic exercise. To the contrary, in barely 200 pages the author paints a very personal and infernal journey to the extremities of human life.<br />The book can be read in different ways. First it is a detailed account of the dynamics of a particular pathology. The narrator describes step by step how his mother is overpowered by a mysterious illness and how it gradually dismantles her personality. Here, Ignatieff's prose can be very moving. The description of his youth is suffused with a fragile, arcadian light, contrasting effectively with the searching, melancholy figures of father and mother. The dramatic clair-obscur is tastefully woven into the fabric of the whole novel and lends a poetic tension to the work.<br />Additionally, the confrontation with a devastating neurological illness forms the basis for a compelling philosophical investigation. In this sense, the book draws the contours of a few classical questions in personality theory. What is a person? When has someone reached the point of psychic regression where the 'I' has been dissolved? Can human identity be reduced to a particular neurochemical balance, or is there more than only organic substance? In Scar Tissue, Michael Ignatieff explicitly confronts two distinct philosophical positions - materialism and idealism - with the mystery of life and death. The narrator, philosopher, and his brother, neurophysiologist, are proxy for these two different types of rationality: &quot;As my father used to say, 'Your brother has a propositional intelligence.' Meaning he had a way of reasoning that viewed ordinary life and its problems from an altitude of 40,000 feet. Whereas, my father said, I had 'an autobiographical intelligence', which was his way of saying I had a scatty female mind, interested in gossip and personal details and stories and character, things he didn't have time for.' So, a Platonic, conceptual and scientific way of thinking and an Aristotelian, pragmatic and context-sensitive rationality are crushing their teeth on the abyssmal problem of fate and death. Maybe, at the end of the story, we are witness to some sort of synthesis: &quot;Human identity is neurochemical. Infinitely small amounts of neurotransmitter fluid, microscopic levels of electrical charge make the difference between selfhood and loss. Sanity is finely poised. Fate is measured in pica-litres. On the other hand, fate is beautiful. Feel the slow beating descent of its black wings.'<br />The book's finale may seem a little contrived: pushed completely out of his existential balance, the narrator undertakes a radical quest for selflessness, an intentional destruction of his own person, into a state of pure emptiness. However, it seems to me this is another level at which Scar Tissue can be read: ultimately, in its appeal to the symbolism of death and rebirth, the story develops a logic akin to an initiation rite. Ignatieff's state of pure vacancy and selflessness corresponds to the embryonic condition, a prerequisite for each regeneration (Mircea Eliade's The Sacred and the Profane is useful background reading here). On the final page, the author prepares for the final part of the journey: &quot;But I know that there is a life beyond this death, a time beyond this time. I know that at the very last moment, when everything I ever knew has been effaced from my mind, when pure vacancy has taken possession of me, then light of the purest whiteness will stream in through my eyes into the radiant and empty plain of my mind.&quot; And then back to the magnificent motto from the hand of John Milton:<br />&quot;So by this infirmity may I be perfected, by this completed. So in this darkness, may I be clothed in light.&quot;this infirmity may I be perfected, by this completed. So in this darkness, may I be clothed in light.&quot;	2001-12-26
US	53016168	R7WHGDZZ970AF	0316743003	826475526	Skunk Works: A Personal Memoir of My Years at Lockheed	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A rich account of aerospace industry during the Cold War	I picked this book up after having read Don DeLillo's Libra, which pictures the protagonist, Lee Harvey Oswald, at a USAF base in Atsugi, Japan during his military service. The U2 spy plane that was based there definitely adds to the aura of mystery and fatefulness that pervades the whole of DeLillo's excellent novel and aroused my curiosity. Rich's account of the Skunk Works' history entirely satisfied my interest in this mysterious airplane. The book can be read in different ways: as a thrilling account of the Cold War, a captivating portrait of the complex  and brilliant designer Kelly Johnson, and as a treatise on corporate innovation, cutting edge management methods and industry-government relationships. I found the book to be exceedingly well written, with just the right dosage of technical details, humour, personal anecdotes and historical drama. The integration of 'other voices' from test pilots, high level policy makers and air force top brass complements Rich's narrative nicely and helps in modulating the sometimes breathless pace. An excellent book. I enjoyed it a lot.	2001-11-07
US	53016168	R2U6SQ4D3ZU8IY	0306808935	899767533	Talking Music: Conversations With John Cage, Philip Glass, Laurie Anderson, And 5 Generations Of American Experimental Composers	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A very intertaining and solid introduction	This is a very entertaining collection of interviews. Duckworth takes his time to explore the issues sufficiently deeply with his interlocutors. Hence, there is substance to the book: it certainly is more than a loose collection of freewheeling conversations. And I am grateful for the fact that Bill Duckworth expanded his survey beyond the obvious collection of Minimalists and Cage. I knew nothing about Pauline Oliveros, Glen Branca or La Monte Young and came away refreshed from reading all their stories. I was generally satisfied by the way Duckworth steers the interviews. The tone is relaxed, sometimes earnest, sometimes tongue-in-cheeck. He is at his very best in the long, sometimes rambling conversations with La Monte Young and John Zorn. But in other cases - such as with the more rigorous and perhaps intellectually more intimidating personality of Steve Reich - Duckworth rigidly sticks to his agenda and fails to capture a number of potentially interesting tangents. The interview with John Cage is outright funny in the way Duckworth fails to catch on with what Cage really tries to get across. He keeps asking the wrong questions whilst Cage, with dwindling patience, is making broad excursions in conceptual hyperspace. But if Duckworth fails to capture a number of interesting opportunities to dig deeper in some of the interviews, this remains a very valuable collection, at least for those new to the whole field of American experimental music.	2001-11-04
US	53016168	R51Z7Z3C7TS17	0226245322	844478837	Killing Time: The Autobiography of Paul Feyerabend	Books	5	20	20	N	N	An awesome spiritual odyssee	This is a slim volume, barely 200 pages, but it charts an awesome spiritual odyssee. Paul Feyerabend - enfant terrible of late 20th century philosophy - looked ruthlessly in the mirror and painted an unadorned picture of himself. At the end of his life, he painfully recognised that its course had been shaped by absences, rather than by specific events or, for that matter, ideas: absence of purpose, of content, of a focused interest, absence of moral character, absence of warmth and of social relationships.<br />Only when Feyerabend approached the final fifteen years of his life and settled as a professor in the philosophy of science in Z&uuml;rich - after having lectured four decades at Anglo-American universities - he started to relax. And eventually, a woman came and set things right. In 1983 he met the Italian physicist Grazia Borrini for the first time. Five years later they married. His relationship with Mrs. Borrini must have been the single most important event in Feyerabend's life. Reading his autobiography is an experience akin to listening to Sibelius' tone-poem 'Nightride and Sunrise': after 1983 the colours change dramatically and his prose is infused with warmth and immense gratefulness. It is a delight to read his rapt eulogies on the companion of the last decade of his life, on his most fortunate discovery of true love and friendship. Indeed, although Feyerabend is not interested in 'spoiling' his autobiography with an extensive reiteration of his philosophical positions, there are a few messages he clearly wants to drive home. The central role in life of love and friendship is one of them. Without these &quot;even the noblest achievements and the most fundamental principles remain pale, empty and dangerous&quot; (p. 173). Yet, Feyerabend clearly wants us to see that this love &quot;is a gift, not an achievement&quot; (p. 173). It is something which is subjected neither to the intellect, nor to the will, but is the result of a fortunate constellation of circumstances.<br />The same applies to the acquisition of 'moral character'. This too &quot;cannot be created by argument, 'education' or an act of will.&quot; (p.174). Yet, it is only in the context of a moral character - something which Feyerabend confesses to having only acquired a trace of after a long life and the good fortune of having met Grazia - that ethical categories such as guilt, responsibility and obligation acquire a meaning. &quot;They are empty words, even obstacles, when it is lacking.&quot; (p.174) (Consequently, he did not think himself responsible for his behavior during the Nazi period).<br />Contrary to someone like Karl Kraus, Feyerabend seems to think that men, at least as long as they have not acquired moral character, are morally neutral, whilst ideas are not. A question which remains, of course, is who is to be held responsible for intellectual aberrations and intentional obfuscation if this character is only to be acquired by an act of grace, an accidental constellation of circumstances.<br />There is an enigmatic passage in the autobiography which may shed light on this important problem. After having seen a performance of Shakespeare's Richard II, in which the protagonist undoes himself of all his royal insigna, thereby relinquishing not just &quot;a social role but his very individuality, those features of his character that separated him from other&quot;, Feyerabend notes that the &quot;dark, unwieldy, clumsy, helpless creature that appeared seemed freer and safer, despite prison and death, than what he had left behind.&quot; (p. 172) It prompts him to the insight that &quot;the sum of our works and/or deeds does not constitute a life. These . . . are like debris on an ocean . . . They may even form a solid platform, thus creating an illusion of universality, security, and permanence. Yet the security and the permanence can be swept away by the powers that permitted them to arise.&quot; (p. 172) These ideas do not exactly solve the question about moral responsibility, but they do suggest a tragic 'Lebensgef&uuml;hl' - an acknowledgment of the fact that the spheres of reason, order and justice are terribly limited and that no progress in our science and technical resources will change their relevance - which seems to underpin Feyerabends very earthbound philosophy.question about moral responsibility, but they do suggest a tragic 'Lebensgefühl' - an acknowledgment of the fact that the spheres of reason, order and justice are terribly limited and that no progress in our science and technical resources will change their relevance - which seems to underpin Feyerabends very earthbound philosophy.	2001-11-04
US	53016168	RN9EGJB8O79P7	0140156046	937703555	Libra (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A contemporary tragedy	Libra was my first DeLillo read and I found it to be a very compelling one. The first few hundred pages of the book meander menacingly along like a slow movement in a Shostacovich symphony. There is no humour, no quickening of the pulse anywhere: instead we see bleakness, we feel the oppressing humidity of the South and witness the claustrophobic plotting of 'men in small rooms'. At first I was less taken by DeLillo's montage technique, but I honestly can't see how he otherwise would have been able to weave such a dense matrix from which fate leaps forth. This is what is absolutely impressive about this book: as the story unfolds, the assassination plot starts to develop its own logic, with those who conceived it in the first place standing helplessly along the lines. The great engine of Fate grinds its way through History, sweeping the lives of minute individuals and the consciousness of a nation along with it. DeLillo masterfully lets the story run its own course. As a result, this is a novel which really gets under your skin.	2001-10-28
US	53016168	R1PZCS1Y4P0T5U	0714837695	629795262	Pentagram: The Compendium	Books	2	5	20	N	N	Not exactly cutting edge ...	Pentagram's Compendium is, as far as I'm concerned, not a very exciting book. There is a sense of d&eacute;j&agrave; vu all over the place. There are some happy exceptions, but generally it's the kind of design that has been around for at least 10 years. There is a lot which is clever, witty and beautiful in the conventional sense, but all too often the design collapses under its own weight. There is so little excitement! Compare this to Bruce Mau's Life Style which is an achievement in a different league. I think Mau has his finger on the pulse of our age. He wrestles heroically with the contradictions and paradoxes of his work and his book vibrates with these worries and tensions. The Pentagram book is much more suave. This is not surprising given that the collective was founded in the early seventies by a bunch of 30-plus designers. The most interesting aspect of their approach has nothing to do with their design: it's their loosely coupled organisation with seventeen partners working in three different cities that has managed to thrive over three decades. I assume that many of the corporate dinosaurs of today will continue to call on Pentagram's undoubtedly solid design expertise. But the vicissitudes of the cybereconomy demand a more vicious, tormented and volatile kind of design. For that I would revert to Mau.	2001-08-27
US	53016168	R3BSL0UGMF6LD	0201407957	156035523	Reinventing the Future: Conversations With the World's Leading Scientists	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An informative collection of conversations	In my experience, the 'conversation' format invariable leads to interesting books. Bass' 'Reinventing the Future' is no exception. There are 11 conversations with leading scientists, spread over 240 pages. That means that every scientist gets sufficient space to explore his or her ideas in depth. The selection of people is imaginative: there is a mix of discipline, gender, culture and character which is well judged. The conversations are invariably well crafted; it's obvious that Bass has done his homework very well. A number of chapters are so insightful that I keep returning to this book again and again. James Black, a pharmacologist who discovered cimetidine and beta blockers, offers a view on pharmaceutical Discovery research which, at the time of the interview (1989), must have been simply visionary. I also derived much insight from Thomas Adeoye Lambo's fusion of Western and traditional ideas on mental illness when studying psychotics and schizophrenics in the villages of his native Nigeria. As an update on important scientific theories this book is slightly dated by now. But as an account of how great scientific personalities work it remains as fresh and relevant as when it was written.	2001-08-19
US	53016168	R1YV3JFSZJZU32	0898864569	6300155	Himalaya Alpine-Style: The Most Challenging Routes on the Highest Peaks	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Indispensable for all Himalaya enthusiasts	Despite the disparaging comments of some earlier reviewers this is a great mountaineering book. Whoever was been on one of the Himalayan giants knows that this is not children's play. The risks are enormous and it is remarkable that some people venture into these inhospitable areas time and again. I see no reason to qualify the merits of this book based on the success of the authors' personal endeavours.<br />The book is magnificently produced, with excellent photographs and maps. The selection of mountains and routes is representative for what has happened in the Himalayas during the past three decades. This is not a guidebook. Rather it gives us a broad historical overview of the experiences with Alpine tactics in the Greater Ranges.<br />I would recommend this book to anyone having an interest to climb in the Himalayas. It is much more representative of what Himalayan climbing is about than the scores of self-aggrandizing, pseudo-tragic Everest accounts now claiming all the 'Climbing' section shelf space in high street bookshops.	2001-08-12
US	53016168	RLRQH49SUEFWY	0714838276	592979533	Bruce Mau: Life Style	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Thoughtful and imaginative	Working as a management consultant I'm often turned off by the staleness of much of the current management literature. The design community is a much more sensitive antenna as to what is happening in the world today.<br />Bruce Mau's Life Style is an imaginative survey of how the world is being transformed under the inexorable impetus of global capitalism. It is not a dispassionate account: basically Mau is trying to show us how he is dealing with a very fundamental existential dilemma. Because, as a successful designer, Mau is part of the system - developing and spreading the lingua franca of a global economy. At the same time he is rebelling against the pervasive homogenisation of our image culture: &quot;We should not forget that the com after the dot is short for commercial. Must we define every gesture and possibility within this envelope? Is it not our role to imagine new futures more rich and complex and wild in their style than any single framework can accomodate?&quot;<br />Yhe book is a captivating mix of artwork and short insightful essays. Sanford Kwinter's introductory three-page essay alone is worth the price of the book. I gather this book will be very influential in the years to come.	2001-08-12
US	53016168	R2BB5GR2EUKHKK	0898866901	443098371	Bradford Washburn: Mountain Photography	Books	3	9	13	N	N	A slight disappointment	After the exhiliration generated by Washburn's classic book on Denali, this one left me slightly disappointed. There are many exquisite photographs and a few truly great ones, such as the famous picture of climbers on the Doldenhorn (in the Bernese Alps). But on the whole there are just a little bit too many pictures of abstract geological features. These reveal a more scholarly side of Washburn's art: interesting to round out our view on this great artist, but less captivating than the epic mountain pictures. Also, there is an appendix with a detailed account of Washburn's career, with many little inset pictures of people he worked with (Barbara Washburn being the most prominent amongst them). I would have liked to see many more of these pictures and at a size more amenable to detailed study. A final point of criticism on this book concerns the interview with Washburn by the editor: it is very revealing but way too short! I would have guessed that Decaneas would have been able to extract much more material from all the conversations he has had with Washburn in the final years of his life. So, it's a nice book to have in the library, but Decaneas missed an opportunity to put together an absolute classic. Pity.	2001-07-29
US	53016168	R185X4D4SB99JO	1579120415	902664448	To the Summit: Fifty Mountains that Lure, Inspire and Challenge	Books	2	2	5	N	N	Pity from the shelf space ...	I don't like this book at all. It has been hastily put together. The quality of the pictures is often mediocre. And the words accompanying the picture are a mere rehash of well-known facts. Other reviewers have already commented on typographic errors. Despite its size, this is not an inspiring book.	2001-07-29
US	53016168	RKRZ33EDAVBBP	0935112618	69815725	The Clinton Years: The Photographs Of Robert Mcneely	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Spirit of America	Clinton was a master politician and is a captivating human being. A revealing picture in the book, from a European perspective: Queen Elizabeth, Francois Mitterand and Bill Clinton at Omaha Beach, 50 years hence. What a contrast between fossilized 0ld World splendour and the disarming mixture of boyishness and high seriousness embodied by Clinton! If that is the spirit of America, then I'm envious of it ...	2001-07-27
