US	53014416	R23ZS0ALKJD1R2	0789495759	809247484	Vienna (Eyewitness Travel Guides)	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Great Guide for Sights, History and Transportation	I picked up this guide for my trip to Vienna based on my perusal of all the Vienna city guides at my local bookstore. I had already booked an air and hotel package so was looking for a guide to the major sights, history, food and transportation. This book filled the bill quite nicely.  Vienna is an imperial city with a rich history and the Eyewitness guides are well known for their depth in that area. Also useful was the star rating system for sights not to be used, and very useful information on the wonderful transportation system we had included with our Vienna Card. There were some good tips on dining, particularly in the Vienna cafes.  One of my favorite features was the survival guide with lots of practical information on transportation from the airport, diagrams of bus, tram and subway lines, and more. If you don't need hotel information, this is probably the best guide for the money.	2004-02-28
US	53014416	R302IZ4TL7YG0F	0060187182	601463229	Canyon Ranch Cooking: Bringing The Spa Home	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Guide to healthful, delicious cooking	I recently purchased this book and have been very happy with the recipes I have made. Over the holidays, I cooked corn bisque and teriyaki steak and they were big hits. It was great my family did not know how healthy they were! The Corn Bisque, for example, uses pureed potatoes to give its smooth texture; you only put several tablespoons of cream in at the end for the creaminess.<BR>The book gives detailed ingredient information along with calorie, fat, carb counts. There are helpful tips on preparing the dishes as well.<BR>The only gripe I have is in the format--it is a hardback book that doesn't stay open while using it. But I will get a cookbook holder and will keep on trying more recipes in this book.	2004-01-07
US	53014416	R1276WV4UTP5RU	0385722206	749687762	Balzac and the Little Chinese Seamstress: A Novel	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A powerful little gem	Don't let the size of this book fool you--there is a big story packed into it. This is a coming of age  and a cultural revolution of its own, that took place in the Chinese cultural revolution fiasco of Chairman Mao. Two teen-aged boys are exiled to the poor, uneducated countryside because their well-educated parents were labeled as enemies of the people.  While trying to survive, they make two interesting discoveries--a suitcase full of classic banned books and a lovely seamstress with a dynamite body and a desire to learn.  The books open up a new world for all three of them, dramatically changing the way they looked at their world. Their explorations and self-discovery make for an entertaining and quick read. Even the illiterate villagers had their lives changed by these books. The village tailor, after a dramatic reading of the Count of Monte Cristo over 9 nights, began to fashion garments with naval insignias from the story.<BR>My recent trip to China interested me in Chinese history and culture. This book,and its interesting characters, helped bring alive a very difficult period in Chinese history.	2003-12-27
US	53014416	R3MA7YAHM8P23O	0764525603	98943492	Suzy Gershman's Born to Shop:  Hong Kong, Shanghai & Beijing, Second Edition	Books	5	8	11	N	Y	Indispensible shopping guide for a China Trip	I just returned from a tour of China and this book was a tremendous resource and was the most popular book on the tour. We used it to have a fun shopping trip to the Pearl Market in Beijing and found it a useful resource for items to buy all over China. It had a good section on price bargaining and some helpful tips on transportation within the three cities. China had great prices and wonderful buys. This book is a must have for your trip to China.	2003-11-01
US	53014416	R5AO8K08CR8NW	0805055088	687261224	The River at the Center of the World: A Journey Up the Yangtze, and Back in Chinese Time	Books	5	4	9	N	N	Wonderful book for anyone planning a Yangtze Cruise	I read this beautifully written book before my recent China trip and was enchanted by the story. It begins with a story of a visit by the author to a man with an ancient scroll with a drawing of the Yangtze River. He decided to write a book about his travels and, along with a Chinese woman as a guide, journeyed from the mouth of the river near Shanghai all the way to the source in the Tibetan plateau. What really fascinated me was the way the author wove the history and culture of the region into the current day narrative and interactions with people. For example, the author discusses the activities that led to the downfall of the Qing dynasty and the beginning of the republic--all of which occurred in Wuhan along the Yangtze. Skeletons found in caves along the river are among the oldest ever found, making this area one of the cradles of civilization. <br />Some of the descriptions in the book are now dated  since the first flooding of the area began in June 2003, covering much of the former riverfront and part of the villages with water. However the history and culture explored in the book are still very relevant, so much so that I reread portions while on the cruise in October 2003.<br />Highly recommended.	2003-11-01
US	53014416	R275Q2QHMGYA42	0688163173	339916413	Shutter Island: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	This thriller keeps you going until the surprise ending	Lehane's Shutter Island, is a fast-paced thriller but not in the league with his psychological thriller, Mystic River. Nevertheless the reader is plunged into a fascinating story set at a 1954-era mental hospital for the criminally insane on a lonely island. Two U.S. marshalls have been summoned to find an escaped mental patient, Rachel Solando, who drowned her three children in a lake behind her house. Marshalls Teddy Daniels and Chuck Aule start immediately to question patients and guards. They find a reluctance to help and evidence of the patients being coached on their answers. One of the patients scribbles in Daniels notebook \\"run\\" when the guards aren't looking. He also finds cryptic clues left behind by Rachel Solando and notes that he suspects involve some conspiracy about a missing patient.<br />Daniels came on this mission with an ulterior motive,to find the inmate who set fire to his apartment house that resulted in the death of his wife. He suspects the man is being housed in Ward C, a lockdown for the most dangerous patients.<br />A major hurricane hits the island and shuts down the electricity and thus all security.  Daniels find more clues about Andrew Laeddis, the suspected arsonist and possibly the missing patient.<br />A vanishing partner and no imminent escape routes from the island build suspense and keep you turning the pages.<br />The clever surprise ending will have you rereading the book to look for the now obvious (in hindsight) clues.	2003-06-01
US	53014416	R1VOR5RT0IB9EJ	0312952813	152178043	The Black Ice (Harry Bosch)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Harry Bosch investigates cop killers and Mexican drug cartel	This second in the Harry Bosch police procedural series features Bosch at work in the Hollywood divison after having been reassigned from the prestigious LAPD robbery homocide division. On call over Christmas, he hears about a murder on the police scanner in his jurisdiction and wonders why he is not called. The call involves the apparent suicide of a cop on the narcotics squad. Bosch is suspicious that all is not what it seems and when a folder from the dead cop with a note to Harry turns up, Harry takes up the quest in earnest.<br />We learn about black ice (cocaine, heroine and PCP) a designer drug originally from Hawaii but now made in Mexico and smuggled into the U.S. The intrigue involves rival drug smugglers, a mexican drug cartel made up of men who grew up in barrios (Mexican slums) and crooked cops in the U.S. and Mexico. <br />The ending is a surprise but cleverly set up so you figure it out exactly when Harry does.<br />The fans of Harry Bosch, the loner, anti-establishment cop will enjoy this episode as will those new to the Harry Bosch series.	2003-06-01
US	53014416	RNW273UQZGAMK	0316154601	239093791	Lost Light	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Luckily for us, Harry Bosch finds a good life after LAPD	Lost light means several things in the latest entry into the popular Harry Bosch series: some force coming back that was lost to you and the indirect light in a dark cave. Both are very relevant to Harry Bosch's first adventure after his abrupt retirement from the LAPD at the end of \\"City of Bones\\"  <BR>After his retirement Harry is somewhat lost about what to do with his life. Then he decides to work on a particularly vexing closed case that was never solved when he was in the LAPD. He doggedly follows up on clues despite the loss of security and entree provided by his former badge.<br />Something is definitely amiss when he is immediately warned off the case by an old partner in the LAPD and then followed and jailed in an anonymous underground cell by the FBI.  Harry's investigative skills are as good as ever and soon he learns that the murder of a young women assistant at a movie production company is linked into more complex crimes.<br />The action is brisk, the case complex and challenging and the villains particularly nasty and pervasive--we are in heaven...<br />We learn more about Harry's personality and personal life. He has several encounters with his ex-wife Eleanor Wish who left the FBI and now plays cards professionally in Las Vegas. <br />The ending is particularly satisfying as both the story is wrapped up in an exciting way and Harry gets some satisfaction in his personal life. <br />It will be very interesting to see the new directions his character takes in subsequent stories and we will all be waiting to enjoy them	2003-04-25
US	53014416	R32SDYPCWNJNBU	0452282152	858318999	Girl with a Pearl Earring: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	This historical fiction is a gem	I have been intrigued by Vermeer's works, particulary his attention to detail and &quot;picture within a picture&quot;. While little is known of his life, Chevalier weaves a fascinating tale told by Griet, a 17 year old girl pressed into service as a maid for the Vermeer family to aid Griet's starving family. Through Griet's eyes we see what daily life might have been like in 17th century Holland. What is particularly fascinating is the exposition of how Vermeer painted--his vision, his treatment of colors and his use of a new instrument to get a different perspective on his subjects.<br />  Griet is a very appealing heroine. We identify with her fears in leaving home and living in a &quot;Papist&quot; house; her sorrows from the woes of her family, and her curiosity and intelligence when she is asked to help the artist. As is obvious from the title, Griet also serves as the model for one of Vermeer's most haunting masterpieces.   All of these elements add to the pleasure of this book. I was totally engrossed with this story and finished reading it in one day.	2003-04-25
US	53014416	R3DNQYAV5HB9AF	0156027321	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Suspend belief and enjoy an enchanting ,unforgettable tale	It's hard to write a short review of this book since it is complex and really unique. So many things happen that you will want to talk about this tale as it unfolds and discuss it after you finish.<BR>An author's note sets up the tale and we are told how Martel came to hear of a story \\"that will make you believe in God\\"  But this is not a religious story. It is a tale of a fascinating 16 year old boy, his life in India growing up in the environs of a small zoo, and what he learns there of animals and life.<BR>When his father decides to move to Canada, the animals are packed up and they and the family board a steamer for the trip. As the ship sinks in the Indian Ocean, only a few survivors make it to a life raft.   And there the fascinating tale begins in earnest.<br />What is so compelling about this story--is it the personality of Pi, the Indian boy? Or the story of survival in the lifeboat for so many months? Or is it how he conquered his fears and lived day to day despite the terrors he experienced including living with a tiger in a small boat?  It is all of it plus some gruesome events that Pi had to endure to stay alive and his philosophy that kept him going.<br />As I read this book, I discussed the events as they happened with my husband (you won't believe what just happened...) When the story finally came to an end in a very surprising way, I really wanted to discuss how it all happened.<br />If you can suspend belief and jump with both feet into this story, and you don't mind a few gruesome scenes along the way, you are in for a delightful treat. Highly recommended.	2003-04-25
US	53014416	R2PNMEUHOO9E0Z	0892967293	578975146	A Fine Dark Line	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Beautifully written coming of age novel set in the South	Lansdale describes a summer in 1958 when 13 year-old Stanley Michel Jr and his family moved to a house that formed the screen of the drive-in theater in Dewmont Texas. During that summer, Stanley loses his childhood innocence when he learns about racial bigotry, passion, cruelty and violence. He also becomes close to his 16 year old sister, befriends the aged black man who runs the projector and solves a 20 year old murder mystery.<br />This \\"not to be missed\\" story draws its characters and their personalities so finely, you feel like you can actually see them.  I enjoyed some of the dialogue of the characters so much, I reread parts of the story.<br />The title, Fine Dark Line, signifies many things in the story. There is a quote by Stanley in the story in which he feared that a force he felt in his room would take hold of him and drag him with them \\"across the fine dark line that made up the border between the world of the living and the world of the dead.\\" I also think there was a fine dark line between the lives of the blacks and the whites in the town, the poor and the rich, and instances we see of both cruelty and love.<br />There are lots of memorable characters. In addition to Stanley Jr. who narrates the story, we meet his friend Richard, who receives regular beatings my his religious fanatic father but finds the courage to stand up to him; the aging black projectionist, Buster Lighthouse Smith, who helps him solve the mystery letters found in an abandoned house. Buster teaches him how to research what actually happened to two murdered teenage girls, but more importantly, teaches Stanley many life lessons.  His sister Callie, a co-conspirator in his investigations, introduces him to many adult issues. <br />This book has been compared to \\"To Kill a Mockingbird\\" and is as memorable. Highly recommended	2003-04-10
US	53014416	R2KIGZN9UKLRAW	0892962984	617323609	32 Cadillacs	Books	5	4	5	N	N	This fast paced story of  car recoveries is worth the ride!	This book explores the world of gypsies, scamps and thieves and the offbeat group of Private Investigators who pursue them. <br />Always planning the next con, theft or bunko, a band of gypsies in San Francisco pull off a perfect crime.  Using four branches of the same bank, slick tactics and phone banks, a group of gypsies manages to steal 32 cadillacs, all in the same day.<BR>Facing a million dollar loss, the bank hires DKA, a local PI firm, to recover the stolen cars.  Tipped off that a gang of gypsies was responsible, the DKA operatives, or repomen, start a chase that follows the cars across the US. Using very unconventional methods this quirky band of PIs, who are rejects and misfits, must use their wiles to \\"outcon the cons.\\"<br />What makes this story really outstanding is the background tale of the gypsy life, description of how the cons are done and the plotting of the PIs to get the cars back. There is lots of action too including breakneck chases and escapes, including one where a DKA agent must leap into a car while his rear is filled with buckshot.<br />My favorite character is Ken Warren, a repoman with such a severe speech impediment that he barely communicates. But with extraordinary skills in hunting down and absconding with cars that no one else can get, he earns the respect of his fellow DKA agents.<br />A fun ride which I highly recommend.	2003-04-05
US	53014416	R3F5XFZYZ2UZDA	0446679755	223656325	The Earthquake Bird	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Eerie Psychological Suspense Novel, Great Debut	In this promising debut novel, Susanna Jones tells the story of a bright but disturbed British woman, Lucy Fly, who lives in Japan. Believing (incorrectly) that her actions during childhood caused her brothers death, Lucy stopped talking for three years and her family ignored her during most of her childhood. Escaping to Japan after leaving university, Lucy was content with her routine and a few friends. <BR>The book is told through flashbacks as Lucy recalls events in her childhood and Japanese life that led to her questionning in a police station about the murder of a friend, Lily. As the story unfolds, you feel a sense of doom about the inevitable outcome.<br />As we learn more about what happened on the day in question and factors that caused these events, we are treated to a very interesting slice of Japanese life--what it is like to live and work in Tokyo, the relationship with her Japanese boyfriend, and a trip to lovely Sado Island in northwest Japan. The characters of Lily, the Brit expatriot bartender befriended by Lucy, is well developed and more minor characters such as the Japanese women in a string quartet that Lucy joins also add to the pleasure. The Japanese boyfriend, Teiji, is an enigma who speaks little and acts strangely, making a good match for Lucy, also a misfit. <BR>This is a book that you dont want to put down, and and due to its short length, you can reach the surprise conclusion with much pleasure in a short time.<br />The only complaint I have is the unusual writing style that combines both first and third person narrative even in the same paragraph. However this does not take away from a thoroughly enjoyable first novel.	2003-04-05
US	53014416	R410DVL52FQOB	0385508042	106527389	The King of Torts	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Grisham is back in form with a fast paced, complex thriller	Fans of John Grisham's earlier legal works should be pleased with this thriller set in the complex, greedy world of tort lawyers. You can't help but like and hate the main character, lawyer J. Clay Carter II as he changes from a low paid but dedicated attorney in the D.C. Public Defender's office to a high powered, freewheeling and greedy corporate lawyer. When the chance to cash in on 6 settlements for a new drug gone wrong lands in Carter's lap, he is lured into the jet-setting life of other wealthy attorneys looking for quick settlements. Even though you may not approve of their motives, the tort world is fascinating and a great story. As Carter buys into the lifestyle with a personal jet and home in the Carribbean yet seems unconcerned about settlements for his clients, you want to shake him. But those who rise quickly can fall the same way and the novel ends in a satisfying way.<BR>Lots of subplots, interesting characters and fast paced action keeps you on pins and needles until the end of the story. I think this is a four star book, not quite at the level of his earlier works (The Firm and Pelican Brief), but a huge improvement over later works such as The Summons and The Brethren.	2003-03-16
US	53014416	R2LIAH9L9OAHCL	0316693006	910647309	Four Blind Mice (Alex Cross)	Books	3	13	13	N	N	Fast-paced, entertaining addition to Patterson's work	You can count on being entertained by James Patterson's Detective Alex Cross series. The characters are familiar and well-drawn and the plots are challenging and provide page-turning entertainment.<br />In this installment, the first after the \\"Mastermind\\" killer was jailed in Violets are Blue, puts Alex's partner Sampson in the forefront as he suspects that an Army friend has been framed for murders he did not commit in Fort Bragg.  So starts what appears to be a pattern of cases where Army soldiers are framed in a convincing way in a pattern of ritualistic and gruesome murders.  As the plot continues we find a connection with a series of murders that took place in Vietnam in 1969. But who is ordering the murders and why--this is the element that holds your interest until a very satisfying ending.<br />Also of interest in this book are love interests for Cross and Sampson and a health threat for Nana Mamma who is the heart and glue of the Cross household.<br />Some reviews call Patterson's work predictable. The only predictable element I find is that I am fairly sure that when I pick up a Patterson novel I will be happily entertained and challenged with plot twists.  This was a very enjoyable and quick read--I finished it in one 24 hour period.	2003-03-16
US	53014416	RE0T6Q8A4P9Q4	0515133310	32851163	Echo Burning (Jack Reacher, No. 5)	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Jack Reacher is a fascinating anti-hero	I have heard a lot of praise about Lee Child's Jack Reacher series so I picked up this book at the library, not realizing it was number 5 of the series. What I found was a tough, no nonsense complex character who gets to the bottom of whatever issue he is involved with. In this case, hitchhiking out of town to avoid some unpleasantness with a local cop, he is picked up by a woman named Carmen literally looking for help. She convinces him that she has been abused by a husband who will shortly be released from jail and asks Reacher to kill him.  Reacher will not agree to be an assassin but does stay around her husband's Texas ranch to see what is happening for himself.  The husband's family is really obnoxious and the farm hands think they will teach Reacher a lesson but are much the worse for the experience as Reacher beats them senseless. Carmen refuses to leave her husband because he told her that he will keep their 6 year old daughter.<BR>Meanwhile, trained assassins are at work tracking down and killing Carmen's husband's lawyer and best friend. Watchers are also keeping tabs on Carmen and her daughter. <br />When Carmen's husband is killed the first night after his release, she is taken into custody for the murder. Reacher tries to help but she refuses his help now and the DA says she confessed.  According to the DA all she has told Reacher has been lies--or has it?<br />While there are some interesting twists in this story, the ending is somewhat predictable.  I did enjoy the show-down in the desert where Reacher cleverly sets up the scene so the bad guys think they are outnumbered. While they are not out-numbered, they are definitely out-strategized. <br />From other reviews here, it seems I started with an entry into the series that perhaps wasn't one of the Child's best. But the Reacher character is definitely an interesting one and I will read more of this series.	2003-03-16
US	53014416	R2W2WM0FYKP4AJ	0385508042	106527389	The King of Torts	Books	4	38	39	N	N	Grisham is back in form with a fast paced, complex thriller	Fans of John Grisham's earlier legal works should be pleased with this thriller set in the complex, greedy world of tort lawyers. You can't help but like and hate the main character, lawyer J. Clay Carter II as he changes from a low paid but dedicated attorney in the D.C. Public Defender's office to a high powered, freewheeling and greedy corporate lawyer. When the chance to cash in on 6 settlements for a new drug gone wrong lands in Carter's lap, he is lured into the jet-setting life of other wealthy attorneys looking for quick settlements. Even though you may not approve of their motives, the tort world is fascinating and a great story.  As Carter buys into the lifestyle with a personal jet and home in the Carribbean yet seems unconcerned about settlements for his clients, you want to shake him.  But those who rise quickly can fall the same way and the novel ends in a satisfying way.<BR>Lots of subplots, interesting characters and fast paced action keeps you on pins and needles until the end of the story.  I think this is a four star book, not quite at the level of his earlier works (The Firm and Pelican Brief) , but a huge improvement over later works such as The Summons and The Brethren.	2003-02-18
US	53014416	R3RNI1FAJCGDL3	0425188868	506468514	Dig Deep for Murder (Manor House Mysteries)	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Entertaining romantic mystery set in WW2 England	This is the fourth installment of Kate Kingsbury's Manor House series set in World War II England. Lady Elizabeth Hartleigh is a 31 year old divorcee who lives in the family manor house in the quiet village of Sitting Marsh. She is scraping by since her former husband gambled her money away but life must go on and appearances must be kept up.<BR>As part of the war effort, she has given some of her land over to victory gardens for the villagers. During weeding of one of the neglected plots, a body is unearthed. Since the victim is one of her tenants, Lady Elizabeth is bound to find out what happened since the incompetent retired constables seem to have no interest in doing so. Along the way she enlists the help of Earl, an American Air Force officer billeted in one wing of the Mansion, who provides the romantic interest. Thrown in for good measure are side plots of solving petty thievery of food, and an accident and love interest involving Elizabeth's 16 year old assistant. What I enjoyed the most, was seeing life in an English village during wartime, where people go about their daily lives despite rationing, blackouts and loved ones off to war.<br />This book is an example of an old-fashioned English \\"cozy\\" mystery where the mystery is solved without undue bloodshed in a civilized way. An easy read and entertaining story.	2003-02-17
US	53014416	R2HI4NR5JEJM60	0446612731	498818576	The Black Echo (A Harry Bosch Novel)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Complex and Engaging Police Procedural ; Edgar Award Winner	In this debut novel, we meet Harry Bosch, a smart and savvy LAPD homocide detective with lots of issues. We are immediately plunged into the investigation of what appears to be an overdose death of a junkie in a drainpipe at Mulholland Dam. Harry recognizes the victim as a fellow \\"tunnel rat\\" from his Vietnam war days and is unwilling to dismiss the case as an OD.<BR>As the story proceeds, we learn of the victim's involvement with a bank robbery, relive some of Harry's Vietnam tunnel nightmares, and meet Eleanor Wish, Harry's contact and partner for this case from the FBI. <BR>The reader is drawn into a complex labyrinth of murder, greed, and revenge that has its beginnings in the Vietnam war.  Harry's investigation is made more difficult by his superiors in LAPD who seem to thwart the investigation and a pair of heckel and jeckel Internal Affairs investigators seeking revenge who want to boot him out of the police force.<BR>The action is fast paced and Harry is a very likable hero/underdog/scapegoat.  The author, a former LA newspaperman, paints a realistic picture of police procedures and settings in Los Angeles. You can't wait to find out the ending even if some of the details are predictable. <br />This story follows in the footsteps of the classic police series; you won't be disappointed with this book.	2003-02-07
US	53014416	R15PXH7GHQA1QK	0971727902	371553693	Maui Revealed: The Ultimate Guidebook, Second Edition	Books	4	5	5	N	N	An insider's guide to Maui	I discovered this book on my first day in Maui and it was very helpful guide for my trip. To contrast this to Fodor's Hawaii, which covers all the Hawaiian islands: Fodor's devotes about 75 pages to Maui, and this book provides 300 pages of background information and tips. It has detailed guides to each section of the island covering sights, activities, beaches, hotels, dining and more. The introduction gives a history of Maui and the \\"basics\\" gives overall background information and great local maps are sprinkled throughout.<br />To give you an example of the valuable tips: we got information about a great magic/comedy show in Lahaina that was rated the best entertainment on the island--and I thoroughly agreed. Lots of budget tips like where to get quick meals and snacks reasonably at Kaanapali, details on lots of activities, suggestions for best snorkeling/windsurfing beaches. A few minor issues--the authors' dining awards, onos (delicious in Hawaiian) seem to go to some cheap eats places that were just mediocre (Cheeseburger in Paradise in Lahaina is an example). The description of the danger of the downhill biking from Haleakala volcano to the sea was so vivid I almost cancelled my trip. Luckily I checked with some locals who assured me that if accidents happened everyone on Maui would know, and I went on the trip and had a great time. Overall though I would rate the information in this book very highly.<br />In their introduction to this book, the authors stated their goal of providing information to bring independence to visitors in exploring Maui. With my insiders information from this book, they succeeded, I felt like a local. Mahalo (thank you in Hawaiian)	2003-02-02
US	53014416	R329FMS0GGG9N4	0425187381	789069629	The Clerk's Tale (A Dame Frevisse Mystery)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Nun solves murders in medieval England	Margaret Frazer documents the interesting world of 15th century England in her series about Dame Frevisse, a nun in St Frideswide's priory in the English countryside. <br />In this installment of the series, Frevisse accompanies her prioress on a journey to St Mary's nunnery to visit the prioress's dying sister. Upon arrival, Frevisse is immersed in the aftermath of a murder of a much hated local official which occurred on the nunnery grounds. There is no lack of suspects, and due to her reputation in solving other murders, Dame Frevisse is asked to participate in the investigation. <br />We learn about the main characters and the property dispute the official was mediating when he was murdered. A love triangle and another murder make the plot interesting.<br />For me, however, the most interesting aspect of this book was not the murder mystery but the insight into daily life of this time. Frazer focuses on the life of women in the middle ages: nuns, wives and widows.It surprised me to learn, for example, that widows could hold property in their own name and led fairly independent lives. While Frazer's extensive documentation and research was evident in her work, I was a little disappointed in the character of Dame Frevisse. While she has a sharp, inquiring mind, she had few interpersonal relationships so we could see little but her pious character. As a contrast, Ellis Peters' Brother Cadfael (of the 12th century in England) has both a colorful past and is a multidimensonal character.  However I did enjoy this book and will probably read more of the series.	2003-02-02
US	53014416	R25A2YN1PLAIEU	1400010322	208691148	Fodor's Hawaii 2003	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Good reference for multi-island visit	Fodor's Hawaii is a useful reference book for either multi-island trips or stays of a short duration. It does a good job of going over background, and some hotels, restaurants and activities.  I used some recommendations for restaurants in Honolulu and Maui and was very happy.<BR> Think of this book as giving you the &quot;big picture&quot;. If you are planning on a stay of four or more days on an island, I suggest getting an island-specific guide.  Because Fodor's covers all the islands, it can only give about 75 pages on Maui for example. It did not cover the popular bike rides down from the top of 10,300 ft Haleakala volcano to the sea--rather it said some companies rent bikes for this trip.  An example of an island specific book is &quot;Maui Revealed&quot; which has 300 pages of details and insider information.<br />Overall I would use Fodor's again, but would supplement with other material.	2003-02-02
US	53014416	R1B715YRWO30MU	0316154318	817062475	City of Bones (A Harry Bosch Novel)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fast paced, engaging police procedural	I have heard lots of good comments about the Harry Bosch novels and I was not disappointed with this seventh book of the series. Bosch is a hard boiled homocide detective in the Hollywood division of the LAPD who gets a call that a dog has discovered a human bone. The investigation uncovers a 20 year old murder of a 12 year-old boy who was the victim of child abuse. As the case proceeds, Bosch meets and becomes involved with a rookie cop named Julia Brasher, who has an idealistic view of police work.<BR>Some information leaks and false clues initially sidetrack the investigation but slowly the victim is identified and his short and tortured life revealed. Connelly draws his characters with fine strokes and his development of the details of the police procedures which are key to solving cases was really fascinating to me. Understanding the murder book, how warrants were drawn up and served, and details behind the forensic investigation added to my enjoyment of the story.<br />False directions provide intrigue but I was a little disappointed with the unsatisfying way the murderer was revealed and dealt with. <br />All in all though, a fast paced (I read it in one 24 hour period), and very enjoyable read.	2003-01-30
US	53014416	R1CDOFSGODND9L	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	5	0	4	N	N	A touching, poignant story destined to be a classic	I was really touched by this story told by a murdered 14 year old from her venue in heaven. You have to stretch credibility for this premise, but once you get on board, it's a wonderful story. Susie Salmon narrates the story, interspersing the narrative about how she was raped and murdered, the search for her killer accompanied by how her killer is covering his tracks and a description of how her family copes with her loss. We also get a view of what a personalized heaven could be like--- since Susie was killed while in middle school, \\"her heaven\\" looks like the high school she never got to attend. She keeps close watch on both her family and the progress to find her killer.<br />The personal stories here are the stars: her father's desperate attempts to find evidence against the neighbor who he suspects killed Susie and his subsequent medical and mental breakdown, her mother's attempts to keep things going that collapsed completely and caused her to flee to California and her sister's take charge attitude with the baby brother, breaking into the neighbor's house to find evidence and making a life for herself. As you follow the lives of the main characters, you feel a connection with them. There are interesting ideas that spirits are all around us and some people can feel them more than others. Also interesting is the idea that spirits try to make their presence known to loved ones assuring them that they are all right.  We also see how Susie gets used to the idea that she is dead, what she misses, and how she yearns for her family.  The narrative covers a number of years and brings the story to what I think is a very satifying conclusion with lots of things to think about.<br />I think it is one of the best books of 2002. I read this as a library book then went out and bought my own personal copy. <br />Highly recommended.	2003-01-02
US	53014416	R3SU21FTOJXDHO	0446525731	870710129	The Christmas Train	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Yuletide Treat	David Baldacci has a winner in the holiday story featuring a trainride from Washington to Los Angeles. A Pulitzer winning writer, Tom Langdon, decides to take the train to visit his sometime girlfriend for the holidays. Fulfilling a promise made to his father, Tom plans to write about the journey and the people he meets along the way. What a journey it is--wonderful scenery, quirky but interesting people and of all coincidences, he runs into the love of his life, Ellie, who he broke up with years earlier on assignment abroad.<br />While far from \\"Murder on the Orient Express\\" a lot happens on the two trains he takes--the Capitol from Washington to Chicago and the Southwest Chief from Chicago to Los Angeles. A Hollywood producer, with Ellie as his writer, is scouting the train to make a movie; a young couple hope to get married on the train and people who dont want to be alone on the holidays crave the family atmosphere and festive mood.<br />Thrown in for good measure are a boys choir, a petty thief and a life threatening natural disaster.  While not the typical train trip, it makes for a fascinating read. Baldacci's great description of the train ride, crew and sights, really makes me want to take this trip.  The plot gets a little preachy on the future of long distance train travel and lack of government funding but that does not detract from the whole story.<BR>  <BR>All of the elements come together at the end for a yuletide story that has hope, love, redemption and thanksgiving. I can definitely see this becoming a \\"made for television\\" movie that will be an annual holiday treat.  <br />Don't miss this heartwarming story.	2002-11-30
US	53014416	R32VETQRZSXMMZ	0743223896	942066894	Nine	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Serial Killers go after the FBIs most wanted list	Edgar and Agatha award winner Jan Burke has done it again with this exciting tale of serial killers who are applauded as heros because they systematically torture and kill some of society's worst criminals.  Always one step ahead of the police, a band of villains take out even worse villains in particularly gruesome ways. Along the way, we meet Kit Logan, who killed his stepfather who was brutually murdering women in the same way the FBI's most wanted criminals are being killed. Kit, who  has never psychologically recovered from his abusive childhood ,is on the trail of his long time friend Gabe, on the FBI list for suspected murder. Not only does Kit want to protect Gabe but also his beautiful sister Meghan, who Kit is secretly in love with. Meanwhile Sheriff Alex Brandon, in charge of the case, finds very few clues until  Kit tips him off on connections leading to the murderers.  As loved ones of both Alex and Kit are put in harm's way, the clock ticks away valuable time while the killers are making their final grandstand. <br />The characters of the good guys Kit, Meghan, Kit's ward,Spooky, Alex, and his nephew and uncle are well drawn; we come to know and like them. On the other hand, we don't learn much about the bad guys and their motives--why are they doing this and what are they trying to achieve. Nevertheless, Nine is an exciting story and I postponed several activities so I could find out the ending, which has a great buildup and a surprise twist.	2002-11-30
US	53014416	R2C2ICCQWN8M45	0789435306	70067019	Eyewitness Travel Guide to St. Petersburg	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Beautiful pictures, great background make this guide a must	I travelled to St. Petersburg in November 2002 and found this guide to be of great assistance in planning what I wanted to see, getting background information and in follow-up reading after I returned. The pictures are beautiful,  and the background information is extensive and helpful in understanding what you are going to see. There are extensive maps and diagrams to sites such as the Hermitage Museum and background information that was very helpful. For example, I read about the top sights in the Hermitage so I could be sure to look for them in my quick guided three hour tour. I also knew something about the murder of Rasputin before I toured the Yusupov Palace where the murder took place.<br />The one drawback is that the 1998 publication date makes this book not very useful in information on  new hotels, restaurants or prices. For example, there was nothing about the relatively new \\"Vodka Museum\\" which is near St. Isaac's cathedral, where  my friends and I had a fun visit. <br />Compare guidebooks and I think you will see that this one is by far the best for detail, pictures and general information.<br />Highly recommended.	2002-11-24
US	53014416	RW9TYELBR6XXE	0374281602	721325086	Reversible Errors: A Novel	Books	3	16	16	N	N	A story about the search for truth and personal redemption	Rommy Gandolph is on death row for the murder of three people in a diner when corporate lawyer Arthur Raven is assigned by the court to represent him in his final appeal before execution. Raven resentfully goes through the motions of representation until he receives word that another inmate, now dying from cancer, may have new evidence. Raven takes up the crusade of proving that Gandolph, a small time drug user and thief with a low IQ. was framed for the triple murder that put him on death row. <br />As the title suggests, the book follows both the errors made when Gandolph was convicted in 1991 and the discovery of new evidence and witnesses. But the story is not really about Gandolph, but about the three of the people who were central to the original story and current defense attorney Raven.<br />Raven works with the judge at Gandolph's original trial, Gillian Sullivan, in getting the new evidence. Sullivan, recently released from prison for taking bribes and a recovering drug addict is drawn to Raven, a hard working attorney who is unable to sustain personal relationships. The unlikely couple, a beautiful ex judge in her late 40s and an awkward driven attorney in his 30s, develop an unusual kinship. This is one of the two key relationships at the core of this story. The other relationship is that between the prosecuting attorney of Gandolph's case, Muriel Wynn, and Larry Starczek the original detective on the case. Wynn is now married to a wealthy but aloof businessman and running for DA and is put into contact with Starczek with whom she had a long term affair at the time of the Gandolph trial. Both question what happened over the years and whether they made the right choices. Wynn and Starczek have different motives for ensuring that Gandolph is executed for the murders.<br />The first third of this book alternates between flashbacks to the original events in 1991 to reveal what happened at the arrest and trial and 2001 when the new evidence is presented. Thispart of the book is somewhat tedious but the pace picks up nicely in the rest of the book. The relationship between Raven and Sullivan becomes central to the story and is as much a part of the redemption theme as is the work to free Gandolph. The final resolution of the story tests that relationship as well as Raven's core beliefs in the legal system.<br />Be aware that this is not a traditional legal thriller due to the key focus on relationships but it is still a very satisfying story.	2002-11-24
US	53014416	R2OE8VWAE8F53K	0375507345	366189909	No Way to Treat a First Lady	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Funny blend of satire, mystery and legal thriller	Christopher Buckley is a satirist/comic so this book, his ninth, is 5 parts satire, 1 part who-dun-it mystery, and 1 part legal thriller, with the latter two parts clear exaggerations of the genre. <br />The story revolves around the death of President MacMann, a former war hero now turned womanizer. MacMann is found dead in bed next to his wife with an imprint of \\"REVERE\\" on his forehead from a nearby Paul Revere spitoon.  The previous night he had a romantic tryst with Babette Van Atta, a Hollywood starlet staying in the nearby Lincoln bedroom.  Foul play is suspected and Elizabeth Tyler MacMann is arrested and earns the tabloid name \\"Lady Bethmac\\". MacMann hires Boyce \\"Shameless\\" Baylor, a defense attorney notorius for courtroom antics which succeed in getting scoundrel clients off. Baylor and McMann were once engaged in law school and the engagement was broken when Beth married war hero McMann. During their many planning meetings, Beth and Baylor renew their romance which also complicates the proceedings.<br />This hilarious plot lampoons Bill and Hillary Clinton, trial lawyers a la OJ Simpson trial, media, tabloids, the Washington, D.C. establishment and many others.  You will be laughing at the court antics and the mystery is solved in a very funny way. <br />If you enjoy satire and political humor this is the book for you!!	2002-11-24
US	53014416	R17E0GCD1G6LFU	0789435292	893880731	Eyewitness Travel Guide to Moscow	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Great guide and source of background information	I travelled to Moscow in November 2002 and found this guide to be of great assistance in planning what I wanted to see, getting background information and in follow-up reading and reference after I returned.  One use after I returned was in  matching my photos to the pictures in the guide to label them and this worked extremely well.  The pictures are beautiful,  and the background information is extensive and helpful in understanding what you are going to see. <br />The one drawback is that the 1998 publication date makes this book not very useful in information on  new hotels, restaurants or prices. <br />Compare guidebooks and I think you will see that this one is by far the best for detail, pictures and general information.<br />Highly recommended.	2002-11-24
US	53014416	R2L50KB5VCXOAK	1573222259	608984993	Across the Nightingale Floor (Tales of the Otori, Book 1)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Intrigue, mysticism, star crossed lovers spice this fantasy	Not usually a fan of fantasy, I thoroughly enjoyed this story of feudal Japanese lords, battles for honor, love and loyalty. I was intrigued by the title as I visited Nijo Castle in Kyoto and walked across the nightingale floor designed to \\"chirp\\" to alert the lord to possible intruders. The period of Japanese history where feudal lords demanded tribute and battled each other for supremacy is the setting for this fantasy involving a 16 year old boy, rescued by Lord Shigeru, a member of the Otori family, when the boy's village is ransacked and plundered. Owing his life to his lord, the boy, now named Takeo after Shigeru's late brother, is adopted and works with his Lord to seek revenge for the death of both Shigeru's brother, and Takeo's murdered family.<br />Takeo discovers he has mystical powers from his father, who was a member of the Tribe, and has unusual hearing and can make himself invisible, among other things. These gifts turn out to be invaluable when rescuing victims from the evil Lord Iida. Iida has also taken hostage Lady Kaede Shirakawa, the daughter of an enemy. Kaede has been treated as a servant for 8 years, since she was 7. Kaede is betrothed to Shigeru but falls for young Takeo, who falls for her as well. Their love cannot be, as she is duty bound to honor the betrotha. Meanwhile, Lord Shigeru is also in love with Kaede's older cousin. <br />I couldn't wait to find out what happened in the story which ended in a satisfying but in a \\"to be continued\\" way as this is book one of a trilogy.<br />... I found the amount of detail just right and the book was just at 300 pages was an easy read.  I look forward to resuming the story in Book 2.	2002-11-04
US	53014416	R1BOYBE8Q5WKJL	0786889691	338298919	The Blue Hour	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Unique police duo and terrific plot make this a winner	In this police procedural, the partner combo of young, ambitious, abrasive Merci Rayborn and retired, insightful Tim Hess make a terrific partnership. Merci has planned out her path to being police chief but this plan was interrupted by her lawsuit charging sexual harassment by her former partner. This assignment, to track down a henious serial killer who leaves behind only the purses of the women he abducts and supposedly kills,may be Rayborn's last chance to redeem herself on the force. Hess is also familiar with last chances as he is undergoing chemotherapy for pervasive lung cancer and his call back from retirement is another chance for him as well. This unlikely duo really works and complements each other.  It is really fascinating to see how the veteran Hess deduces what the killer is doing with the phantom bodies and how both Rayborn and Hess track down the clues. Meanwhile we are led on several false goose chases where the killer is supposedly revealed.  Hess also mentors Rayborn to be more insightful and less compulsive, something really needed as she is a very unlikable person. A relationship develops between the two and comes into play when one of them is threatened by the killer. <br />The ending is exciting and unusual, to say the least, but satisfying. I look forward to reading more of this series.	2002-10-16
US	53014416	R365MKBECQL9CI	1572702281	583301746	4:50 from Paddington	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Three great dames make a terrific story	In this classic Jane Marple story, Joan Hickson, who portrayed Jane Marple perfectly on the BBC series, wonderfully dramatizes all the parts in this fascinating murder mystery. Elderly Elspeth McGillicudy witnesses a murder on the 4:50 train from Paddington Station. She reports it but no one believes her as there is no body to be found. When she tells her old friend, Jane Marple the story, Jane does believe her and re-enacts the so-called crime to see how and where the body could have been hidden.  When Miss Marple pinpoints the most likely spot, she engages the young Lucy Eyelesberry to take up a post at that place, Rutherford Hall, to look for the body. The ensuing story is one of the best of Agatha Christie's with Jane Marple taking an important, though supporting role to the plucky Lucy. Not only does she find the body but she engages all the members of the dysfunctional family and serves as a foil to ferret out information about motives and alibis. Of course, all family members remind Miss Marple of someone in her village of St Mary Mead but that is the charm of the story and character.   Elspeth McGillicudy does enter the plot again at the end and is instrumental in identifying the murderer.<br />This audio book is just perfect for a long car trip or even for many short commutes. I couldnt wait to get back to my car and engage the traffic because I so looked forward to Joan Hickson, Miss Marple and Lucy.  Highly recommended.	2002-10-14
US	53014416	R2JBS1CWWKYHS0	0375503722	64748518	No Certain Rest: A Novel	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Intriguing Civil War forensic mystery	This is the story of a National Park Service archeologist, Don Spaniel, who is called in to find the identity of a Union soldier whose bones were found by Civil War souvenir hunters on private land very near the site where the bloody Antietam battle was fought. Spaniel is a man focused on history of the Civil war, so much so that this is the main focus of his life. His passion is contagious and the reader also gets wrapped up in trying to find out who this Union soldier was. Working with a Smithsonian anthropologist Reg Womach, this duo search out clues left in the grave as well as the story told by forensic examination of the bones. <BR>Woven through the story are the details of that awful day on September 17, 1862 when over 23,000 soldiers lost their lives in the single bloodiest day in U.S. military history through the mistakes of General Burnside and other Union Army leaders. This mistake, and the escape of the Confederate forces, resulted in the extension of the war by 3 years with hundreds of thousands of lives lost.<br />The story is told in two ways: while Spaniel and Womack are unraveling the clues, we also get to read the account of that day by a Union soldier who wrote the story ten years after the battle. It was a little confusing at first to understand that Spaniel did not have that written account until his own investigation was almost complete. However both lines of the story do complement each other once you realize what is going on.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed this story on all counts: the mystery aspect and the Civil war story. The story was well written and went at a brisk pace. I found the plot twist at the end a little bizarre but overall strongly recommend this book to both mystery and history enthusiasts.	2002-10-06
US	53014416	R256UXZSQDMYAH	0380716542	477770651	Birds of Prey (J. P. Beaumont Mysteries, No. 15) (J. P. Beaumont Novel)	Books	3	10	10	N	N	This retired "Beau" really needs to find a job	After many years as a homocide detective with the Seattle PD, J.P. \\"Beau\\" Beaumont has now retired. In this addition to the series, he is on a cruise to Alaska as a chaperone to his 86 year old grandmother, Beverly and her 87 year old husband (and Beau's AA sponsor)Lars.  Early in the cruise, a wealthy divorcee goes missing and a murder plot is suspected.  Beau of course can't relax and immediately gets involved in several plots. There are a number of side plots involving cruise passengers and another murder. Lars' reminiscences of his Alaska days as a fisherman are also quite entertaining. It does seem to be a stretch that Beau as a civilian has as much access to crime scenes as a policeman. He is eager to help and get involved which shows he has not accomodated himself to the role of retired ex-cop.<br />The story proceeds at a fast pace and was entertaining but still was not of the higher quality of some of the earlier  J.P. Beaumont series.  I look forward to reading Partners in Crime, when Beau works for the Washington State Attorney General's office and teams up with Joanna Brady......	2002-09-22
US	53014416	R2E849MQCJT04O	0399148876	768276217	Savage Run (A Joe Pickett Novel)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Crisp writing, grisly murders, beautiful setting =great read	Starting with probably the most intriguing first paragraph of  any novel I have ever read, I thoroughly enjoyed this tale of conspiracy to kill environmental advocates/ecoterrorists that is set in the beautiful Wyoming mountains. The hero of this tale is game warden Joe Pickett, an ordinary guy who takes his job very seriously. Pickett gets called to the scene of an explosion in a cow herd that kills 10 cows and an unknown number of people. In between his work to enforce fishing and hunting licenses or count Elk calves, Pickett gets involved in investigating the apparent murder of ecoterrorist Stewie Woods who we  find out was a teenage lover of Pickett's \\"babe\\" wife Marybeth. As the story evolves we track the progress of assassins who are working their way down a hit list of environmental activitists, Congressmen, lawyers etc. As part of their agenda, the killers dispose of their victims in an ironic way--often having the animals or setting that are being protected resulting in the deaths of the victims.  Particularly gruesome was a situation involving bacon and some wild animals....<br />I enjoyed author C.J. Box's writing style including his droll humor and his ability to turn  ordinary, everyday people into very interesting and likable characters. There was nothing particularly special about Joe Pickett: his work seemed routine, he had several bad and possibly fatal blunders and his straight-arrow personality and dogged pursuit of out of season hunters irritated some politicos in the state.  But his devotion to his job and family and his integrity endears him to the reader.<br />Box, a former ranch hand and fishing guide, is a Wyoming native and does a great job of describing the rugged Western scenery as well as the pioneer spirit of the people.  I look forward to more in this series.	2002-09-19
US	53014416	R15H34TYO1ADH7	0671011367	484181364	Deja Dead (Temperance Brennan Novels)	Books	3	61	67	N	N	Tempe Brennan is a refreshing entry into forensic mysteries	In this debut novel, the heroine, Tempe Brennan, a forensic anthropologist originally from North Carolina is working in the bilingual Montreal coroner's office. Tempe is a fictional version of the author herself who has exactly the same experience base. A forensic anthropologist is called upon to answer many questions regarding bones/corpses that arise--are the bones human, what can  be said about the age, sex etc of the person...  This sets up nicely the possibilities of a good murder mystery/police procedural and Reichs does a nice job here. The first case involves the discovery of a trashbag with human remains but goes on to identify 5 women whose murders follows a pattern of  mutilation and control by a serial murderer with a sado-sexist bent. Tempe uncovers possible connections between the 5 women who se murders dont follow a strict MO but do have similarities.  The threat comes close to home as Tempe's best friend is missing and the next potential victim and the murderer taunts her by placing evidence in her yard and threatening her and her daughter.<br />Tempe herself is a likable character--a divorced mother (19year old daughter lives with father) who is somewhat of a loner and a workaholic. She is not at all perfect--a struggling alcoholic who makes the decision each day not to drink and a rather pushy woman who often steps on the toes of the police investigating the murders. But she has a nice personality and her character is drawn with realistic strokes. I also enjoyed the descriptions of Montreal and the peppering of the dialogues with French phrases (always translated for non-French speakers).<br />I did find the novel at 532 pages for the paperback version a bit  too long. I also agree with other reviewers that it seemed at time Tempe had a death wish--going out on her own to investigate clues when she knew she was a target for the murderer.<br />That aside, I found Reichs a refreshing and interesting author in the forensic investigation/murder mysterygenre.	2002-09-15
US	53014416	R2O0YCTCMFTC38	0316154059	817062475	City of Bones	Books	4	63	67	N	N	Fast  paced, engaging police procedural.	I have heard lots of good comments about the Harry Bosch novels and I was not disappointed with this seventh book of the series. Bosch is a hard boiled homocide detective in the Hollywood division of the LAPD who gets a call that a dog has discovered a human bone. The investigation uncovers a 20 year old murder of a 12 year-old boy who was the victim of child abuse. As the case proceeds, Bosch meets and becomes involved with a rookie cop named Julia Brasher, who has an idealistic view of police work.<BR>Some information leaks and false clues initially sidetrack the investigation but slowly the victim is identified and his short and tortured life revealed. Connelly draws his characters with fine strokes and his development of the details of the police procedures which are key to solving cases was really fascinating to me. Understanding the murder book, how warrants were drawn up and served, and details behind the forensic investigation added to my enjoyment of the story.<br />False directions provide intrigue but I was a little disappointed with the unsatisfying way the murderer was revealed and dealt with. <br />All in all though, a fast paced (I read it in one 24 hour period), and very enjoyable read.	2002-09-03
US	53014416	R1H28ZTXQ42WYM	0316150487	925598518	The Perfect Store: Inside eBay	Books	5	16	18	N	N	"Ebaysian" history, people, business, culture--a great read	Not a seller or buyer on Ebay, I wanted to learn something about this e-commerce phenomenon. I hoped to get some behind-the-scene information but Adam Cohen gives us much more--an insider's look at how a tiny free website called Auctionweb, hosted by Pierre Omidyar on his personal website, grew into the multi-billion dollar company where 100,000 people now make their living. <br />This engrossing story takes us from the first days of Auction web--where Omidyar, as a lark, successfully auctioned a broken laser pointer to the evolution of a bare bones company where employees worked in cubicles and had to assemble their own desks from kits and finally to a very profitable and thriving business.<br />The most intriguing aspect of the story is the development of the Ebaysian philosophy--Omidyar's vision of a perfect market, an online auction, where the seller would get the market price for the item on that particular day. Part of this philsophy was involvement of the community in key aspects of  Ebay operations.  The community embraced this concept and, on a volunteer basis, staffed user bulletin boards giving advice to newcomers on how to get started, and sharing marketing and other business operations advice.  After Ebay's IPO and the need to generate increasing profits for their stockholders, management ventured into some practices and ventures that violated this philosophy such as commercial ventures including a Disney site that competed with Ebay's own sellers. The Ebay community protested some of these ideas and management did listen and made changes.<br />Just as fascinating as the story of the evolution of the company is the story of the people behind the company. One fascinating character was Pongo, a message board regular who gave tips on adding digital photos to auction sites. This began one of the many Ebay spinoff companies, Pongo.com, which specialized in an image hosting business.  The real person behind Pongo was Jane Dee of Sitka, Alaska, an isolated fishing village of five thousand on Alaska's Baranof Island, accessible only by ferry or plane from the mainland. Jane Dee's history was remarkable in that she was a former amnesiac who literally found a new life for herself through a business and social life on Ebay.  Other interesting stories include a housewife looking for cheaper shipping supplies, who started a shipping supply company on Ebay and a man looking to have the winning bid in auctions who wrote sniping software and sold it commercially on Ebay. (To snipe is to enter a bid at the last few seconds and win the auction)<br />Ebay also reflects what is happening in our culture and current events.  Ebay listings that made the news were the proposed auction of a kidney, a death row inmate trying to sell tickets this execution and collectibles that appeared after a news event such as the purported raft used by Elian Gonzales to enter the U.S. Ebay jokes are also now a staple of Leno and Letterman  <br />While Cohen was given unique access to Ebay management and people, he also covers their mistakes and critics. One almost fatal flaw was a major system failure that brought down Ebay's system for several days and resulted in losses (money and confidance) for sellers. It was a real surprise to me how many people count on Ebay for their living, often selling their bricks and mortar stores and hiring people to do listings, close out auctions and ship products from their Ebay sales.<br />I don't read many non-fiction books but I highly recommend this book both as an engrossing story and a preview of what ecommerce and the internet may have in store for us in the future.	2002-08-29
US	53014416	R3SUXCRA2AYX5Z	0399148914	243407138	Money to Burn	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Remarkable tale told from a unique perspective	I can't remember ever reading a novel written by a federal district court judge, but Money to Burn, written by Judge James Zagel weaves a compelling legal thriller/crime fiction tale from this unique perspective.<br />In the novel, fictional district court judge Paul Devine, plans a robbery of the Federal Reserve Bank in Chicago, motivated by a desire to avenge a wrong done by the director of the bank to his deceased wife.  Devine is also just bored with his life on the bench and plotting the crime is a thrill for him.  His co-conspirator is his best friend and fireman-turned-arsonist Dave Brody, whose own criminal experience and knowledge of explosives and medicine is key to the plot.  When a head security guard for the Fed and her electrician/husband appear in Devine's courtroom, the criminal conspiracy is underway.<br />Concurrent with his crime plotting, Judge Devine carries on his daily courtroom routine. We get to see the workings of a judge's mind: how he decides his cases, his daydreaming during cases and the games he plays to keep cases interesting.  Despite his criminal bent, Devine is a crusader on the topic of ensuring the guilty are punished, even if it means bending the law. One story line involves a lazy prosecutor who proposes a plea bargain with a short jail time for a con-artist who cheats the elderly out of their life-savings. Devine refuses to accept the plea and makes suggestions to the police detective on advancing certain evidence that comes to a bad conclusion for the criminal.<br />The chilling part of the novel includes both the suspensful robbery and aftermath but also involves the same police detective who is the only one to suspect a robbery may have taken place. Like a man on a mission, the detective seems to be everywhere which begins to rattle the suspects. Will one of them crack and turn in the others? Does Inspector Plymouth really know what happened and more importantly, can he prove anything? <br /> There are lots of surprises instore for you in this outstanding first novel.  The pages will fly, and the suspense builds to such a pitch that you are hesitant to continue in case something bad is going to happen but you are also afraid to stop reading because the story is so gripping.	2002-08-24
US	53014416	R3Q9R1U8I8VOJQ	0399148817	524201117	Sleep No More	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Suspenseful Science Fiction Thriller	In a departure from his usual mystery/legal/police thriller, Greg Iles mixes science fiction with a chilling story set in his native Natchez, with some familiar supporting characters.  A word of warning--you need to suspend belief and not expect everything to add up, because this is paranormal fiction.<br />John Waters is a successful geologist oilman who happens to see a woman at a soccer game who reminds him of a former lover. This coincidence is eerie because the woman, Mallory Candler, is dead, strangled and raped years before in New Orleans.  He is thrown for a loop when the woman, Eve Sumner, calls him and tells him that she is Mallory.  Waters, whose wife has been traumatized by a dead child and unwilling to have sex, succumbs to the siren call of Eve/Mallory and has a torrid two week affair with her. After a night of sex with her in a hotel room, Waters blacks out and awakes to find Eve strangled--just like Mallory.<br />Waters turns to his old friend Penn Cage, novelist and former DA (and lead character of Iles' Quiet Game, also mentioned in the book) for legal advice. Cage suspects some conspiracy to frame waters and begins to look into his partner, Cole, heavily into gambling debts and his wife Ivy who might blame Waters for the stillbirth.<br />What other enemies has Waters made? Will the police find out about his secret trysts with Eve and arrest him?<br />The plot takes you into unsuspected directions, with suspense building all the while.<br />I am a Greg Iles fan and I only gave this entertaining book three stars because I prefer a more factual/logical plot to the science fiction elements here.  While it was chilling, it was not frightening.  It was a highly entertaining read that I enjoyed during a day at the beach.	2002-08-11
US	53014416	R29UM6KSGA8DO5	0375756663	293318194	The Travel Detective: How to Get the Best Service and the Best Deals from Airlines, Hotels, Cruise Ships, and Car Rental Agencies	Books	3	14	16	N	N	A few real gems among the fluff and now outdated material	I am a frequent traveler, often traveling for business or pleasure once a month.  I looked forwarde to Peter Greenberg's travel book as a source for new ideas and tips.  I was disappointed that there was not a lot new there for me. I was also reminded of how the world has changed since September 11,2001--much of the information written in this book in 2000 is now outdated.<br />But to give this book its due, and its three stars, there were some real gems I found among the rough. I finally had explained to my satisfaction, the rules of bumping and compensation for volunteering to give up your seat. I checked out on my next flight that yes, the offers did increase as it got closer to flight time.  I also got a really great tip on how to redeem frequent flier miles when it appears there are no seats when you want to travel--I wont spoil it for you but see page 100. I got the answer to some questions that dont come up often but of which I wasnt sure--like medical evacuation insurance for trips and optional insurance and other charges for rental cars.<br />What I didn't like were the jokes section-often pages at a time--which is not what I wanted in this book. He also tells stories for too long without just coming to the point.<br />So forewarned is forearmed--get the book for the background info and be ready to skim.  Or better yet, wait for a revised version or get one of his newer, post-2001 books.  Happy traveling.	2002-08-11
US	53014416	R3RC79KQTK7W7V	0553381512	975856624	Folly	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Psychological suspense, family mystery on deserted isle	&quot;What does it mean to lose one's mind? Where does it go? What is sane when the world is mad by contrast?&quot;  So reads a 1918  entry in the diary of Rae Newborn's Great-Uncle Desmond, the first builder of the &quot;Folly&quot; or great house on a lonely 150 acre island in the San Juan chain in the Pacific Northwest. <br />Rae, an internationally known expert in wordworking, plans to recreate Uncle Desmond's house using only a picture taken 70 years ago. Subject to depression her whole life, and recovering from a complete breakdown after a drunken driver killed her husband and 9 year old daughter, Rae comes to Folly Island after a year in a mental institution. Rae's journey to Folly has come to mirror Desmond's--an effort to rebuild his house in an attempt to rebuild her life.<br />Desmond, considered a misfit after physical and psychological injuries sustained in World War I, escapes from the Newborn's oppressive Boston household to the freedom of the beautiful Sanctuary Islan, which was renamed Folly Island after Desmond's building attempt.  Desmond's history comes out during Rae's stay on the island and she is particularly troubled with what seems to be a family history of madness.<br />She struggles to overcome her own panic and fears on the island, all the while feeling someone is watching her. Her lawyer gets a message to her that someone paid thugs to attack her two years ago--the final event that triggered her breakdown. She also is told the her greedy son-in-law is trying to declare her mentally incompetent, so he can get control of her sizable fortune. Then things begin to disappear around her camp, disrupting the stability her almost finished house has given her. Her past and present family mystery deepens when she finds the 70 year old skeleton of Desmond in a cave near the house. Who killed Desmond and why? Who is still stalking her? Are they trying to trigger another breakdown or suicide attempt?<br />Despite her isolation, Rae makes friends witha number of locals: a handsome sheriff, an infuriatingly perky but well meaning ranger and a shady but reliable boatman is her lifeline to the outside world.  A beacon in an otherwise stormy life is Rae's granddaughter Petra, the only family member she feels close to. During Petra's visit to the island, Rae must call upon her inner strength and resources to protect them from an outside foe focused on revenge.<br />While a departure from Laurie R. King's Mary Russell or Kate Martinelli series, Folly is a chilling novel featuring an unforgettable heroine and her struggle over her internal and external demons. Highly recommended.	2002-08-09
US	53014416	R3E1QTC5XCDPVB	089296765X	145992076	Dead Midnight (Sharon McCone Mysteries)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Marcia Muller's Sharon Mc Cone is the best of the female PIs	Beginning a Sharon McCone novel is like meeting with old friends: you enjoy finding out what's new with familiar characters and meeting new ones, visiting familiar haunts in San Francisco and knowing you will be entertained from the very first page.<br />This is the 22nd Sharon McCone novel and Marcia Muller is still at the top of her game. Lots of things have happened to Sharon recently, particularly the suicide death of her brother Joey, only a short time after her father's death. Sharon is wondering if she could have done more to help Joey, when she is offered a case involving another suicide. This case, involving Roger Nagasawa, a young employee in a hip, online magazine, is to investigate whether overwork and mistreatment caused his death and thus could be the basis of a lawsuit against the company. Sharon almost refuses to take the case since it is so close to real life. But she does take it and is soon caught up in the vicious dog-eat-dog world of a dot.com struggling to survive. What did Roger find out about a conspiracy to sink the company and what did this have to do with his suicide?  A number of clues surface which show Roger had found things someone wanted to hide Before Sharon finds the answer, an old friend is murdered and some of the evidence points to her.<br />Woven integrally into the story are threads of venture capital business, computer security, personal privacy, and greed--all which add interest and intrigue to a very fast paced story.<br />Over the years Sharon McCone has kept the elements that we have enjoyed--her feistiness, ingenuity, and independence but she has also matured, developing a good-sized PI firm and lots of interesting coworkers and supporting characters that we have come to know and love.  It just keeps getting better and better....	2002-08-06
US	53014416	R27YX9GJB9RN36	0345347099	724962226	Traveler	Books	3	18	19	N	N	Psychopathic Killer Kidnaps Coed to Chronicle his Murders	In an early work, John Katzenbach weaves a tale of sadistic murder and mind control.<br />Mercedes Barren, a Miami cop who transferred to the forensic division after her traumatic shooting, is called in the middle of the night and told her only niece has been brutally murdered. Thought to be the work of the serial \\"Campus Killer\\" Mercedes works with her fellow officers to track down the killer. When a suspect is found, who rambles that Allah told him to kill the evil women, she finds evidence that someone else killed her niece.  As her life begins to fall apart, Mercedes takes a medical leave to look for \\"the real killer\\"<br />Midway through the novel, the author reveals ... the killer .... Through the narrative, we finds what drives him to kill. Not satisfied that he has escaped detection, the murderer's ego needs to have someone to document his murders and thinking. He kidnaps a Florida co-ed who he nicknames Boswell and brutualizes and tortures her until she is brainwashed and frightened to displease him or try to escape.<br />Barren picks up Jeffries' trail, finding his psychiatrist brother along the way and enlisting him in the chase.<br />The unique aspect of this novel was the mind control the killer had over his kidnapped victim, so much so she could not ask a state trooper for help when she saw him.  He lectures her on his experiences and takes her on a \\"sentimental journey\\" of childhood sites and murders that meant a lot to him....<br />My advice to you if you have not read any of Katzenbach's work, is to try a more recent work, such as the Analyst. While the Traveler is a suspenseful story, it lacks the fast pace, character development and satisfying ending of his later works.	2002-08-05
US	53014416	R27BBDTYVXAAON	0671026011	430524886	The Empty Chair (Lincoln Rhyme Novels)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Amelia Bugs Out with the Insect Boy	That is my humorous subtitle for this suspenseful thriller that takes place near the Great Dismal Swamp in North Carolina.  Rhyme leaves his beloved New York City hoping for a successful experimental surgery that will give him a small bit of independence. While he is waiting for the surgery, he is asked by the local sheriff to help in the search for a local teenager nicknamed the \\"Insect Boy\\" for his sole interest--a love of insects. Garrett Hanlon, the teenager, is accused of kidnapping two women and killing a student who tries to stop him.  Hanlon escapes into the swamp and Rhyme enlists local experts to sift though the forensic evidence to find out where he is going.<br />Despite the hopelessness of the situation, the clues do result in the capture of Hanlon.  The novel's title refers to a psychiatric technique of having the patient, in this case Hanlon, project his feelings by imagining the empty chair is someone they want to talk to. Since one of the kidnapped women is still missing, they try to have him talk to her so they can find out where she is.  Of course the plot thickens and as Amelia Sachs gets to know the boy, she becomes convinced that he is innocent. Fearing his mistreatment by inmates in the state prison, she \\"breaks him out\\" of the local jail. There are lots of very thrilling chase scenes as Lincoln Rhyme tries to outwit Amelia Sachs who is on the lam with the Insect Boy. Hanlon also is very clever and confuses his pursuers with false leads.<br />The bad guys are not all wearing black hats and its hard to tell the good guys from the bad. You aren't sure who you want to find Amelia and Hanlon.  THere are some very scary, nail-biting scenes, with lots of suprises in the end. Sprinkled among the exciting scenes are some personal scenes where we find out how much Amelia longs to have a child and when she bonds with a local policewoman. We also find out why she does not want Lincoln to have the operation.<br />Just when things seem like they are drawing to an end is another big surprise as one of the main characters is prosecuted for a murder that occurs during the chase.   Everything is tied up in the end in a logical way, making this an exciting and rewarding read.	2002-07-23
US	53014416	R1X9WJUPVH99ZL	0740712152	909558468	Jeopardy!...What Is Quiz Book 4?	Books	2	8	8	N	Y	Not worthwhile for preparing for Jeopardy Audition	I agree with David Martin who said that this book was not useful for a Jeopardy audition. I auditioned at the same time as Mr. Martin and I found more useful a book called Cultural Literacy Guide, even with its minor factual errors (the reviews of that book will point out the errors)  In addition I would recommend watching Entertainment tonight or reading USA today for a while to catch up on your popculture info.	2002-07-22
US	53014416	RX1NSTPBNKT1Z	0061031429	384682637	The Vendetta Defense	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Fast-paced tale of revenge, regret and family	Philadelphia lawyer Judy Carrier takes on the case of \\"Pigeon Tony\\" a self-confessed murderer of Angelo Coluzzi, another octagenarian Italian-American with whom he has had a \\"vendetta\\" for 60 years.  This story is an interesting look at the culture of the Italian families in Philadelphia and their history and culture, particularly the acknowledged requirement to avenge wrongs from the past.  Through flashbacks, we relieve Tony's experience as a 17 year old farmer in Italy, his meeting with his wife, his bullying by Coluzzi...P>There are interesting characters and a love interest for Judy. I enjoyed Tony's logic and flashbacks and even didnt mind the broken English.<br />Much of the action took place before Tony's trial for murder, so I would categorize this book as more a legal procedural than a courtroom thriller.  The ending was interesting:  some reviewers here don't think it was believable but I can see how a jury could make the same choice. A very entertaining read.	2002-07-22
US	53014416	R3A7K0BWCUR3OM	0345434471	487267340	L. A. Requiem (Elvis Cole)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Move Over Spenser and Travis McGee-Elvis Cole is on the case	Although this book is the eighth in a series, it is my first Elvis Cole/Joe Pike novel and I was really wowed by these characters and a great whodunit story.  Elvis Cole has to be one of the best private investigators of all time--smart, cynical but with humor, a nice guy and a real person with relationships. Joe Pike, on the other hand is literally the strong silent type--a Marine-trained killing machine with lots of forensics smarts.  Together they are a great team. On this case, they are asked to find the daughter of a leading Hispanic businessman in LA...  Crais must love Los Angeles because Cole has an intimate knowledge and affection for the city which he shares with readers.<br />Great characters, great setting, lots of twists, turns and subplots and probably the best PI story I have read in a number of years--this is a MUST READ for mystery fans!!	2002-07-22
US	53014416	RHW3Q6S45E1OC	0811825558	979162178	The Worst-Case Scenario Survival Handbook	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Book is great fun at a party; some info is good, others ?	I bought this book because I was intrigued with some of the titles of the &quot;worst case scenarios&quot;.  Some examples include:<br />How to: land a plane, hotwire a car, wrestle an alligator, escape from a sinking car, leap from a motorcycle into a car etc.<br />While some of these scenarios could address deep-seated fears in all of us (the sinking car gives me the willies), it was really fun to read some of these aloud at a recent gathering of friends because some of these situations are really absurd and funny.  The author's intent was definitely not to be funny as he works to portray the survival procedures and information in a matter-of-fact way and gives his sources in the back of the book.<br />But really, how often are we likely to have to know how to manuever on top of a train and get inside (sounds like a movie) or leap from a moving motorcyle to a moving car?  Other areas are definitely more practical--how to survive an earthquake or avoid being struck by lightning.<br />In some areas, I wonder whether the capsule information would give a false sense of security to the person in the situation. I have a private pilot's license but I don't see how a person can realistically expect to land an airplane with 6 pages of text and drawings.<br />So here is my advice--enjoy the book for what it is--a conversation starter and a source of some practical information.	2002-07-08
US	53014416	R13EDJTPGG9FMQ	0440236703	718492514	Tell No One	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Highly entertaining summer read	I finished this book in one enjoyable day involving a long airplane trip. I chose this book because I enjoyed Harlan Coben's more recent thriller, \\"Gone for Good\\".  There are many similarities between the two books that made them both enjoyable reads--a loved one missing for a long period, likable characters, particularly the main character and fast paced action.<br />Tell No One involves a very nice guy, David Beck, whose wife was murdered years ago.  Beck, a pediatrician who works in a ghetto clinic, has never recovered from this loss--his childhood sweetheart and love of his life.  When he gets an email from someone who appears to be his wife on a special anniversary known only to them, his life gets turned upside down.  Others are also interested in his wife's murder or reappearance from the FBI who try to set him up for the murder, to nefarious characters who don't want her to reappear.  Beck walks a fine line to avoid both types of enemies to find out if his wife is alive. He makes an unlikely alliance with a drug dealer who is the father of one of his patients and that world adds interest.  When the plot winds down, we get a big surprise that doesnt seem to ring as true as the rest of the story--this is my only complaint with an otherwise enjoyable book.<br />Although this is a stand-alone book, it has settings and minor characters that cross over into the later book, Gone for Good. I give the later book a slightly better rating due to its more satisfying ending but I recommend both books.	2002-07-08
US	53014416	R1QVIPN62CUMP8	038533558X	734473825	Gone For Good	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Memorable characters, plot twists make a great summer read!	Will Klein's life was forever changed when his ex-girlfriend was strangled and his older brother, Ken, accused of the murder.  Ken fled and an international manhunt reported sightings in many countries but Will believed Ken was dead.  Eleven years later, he found unexpectedly found love with a fellow worker, Sheila, in Covenant House, a shelter for runaways in New York City. His world was rocked again at the deathbed of his mother when she told him that Ken was alive. Searching his mother's possessions after her death, he does find what seems to be a recent picture of his brother. The plot picks up when Sheila mysteriously disappears and her fingerprints are found at a murder scene in New Mexico. The police don't believe Will that he knows nothing of her disappearance or the whereabouts of his brother. Although the police are after him, the biggest threat to Will is the appearance of the \\"Ghost\\" a former childhood friend, now hired assassin, who is also looking for brother Ken.<br />I liked the fast paced plot but really enjoyed the quirky characters who befriended Ken. Squares, a volunteer at the shelter, is also a famous yogi, who sees through Ken's mental defense mechanisms and tells it like it is. Streetwalker and transvestite Raquel helps in the search for Sheila. Even the evil Ghost has some interesting secrets related to the 11 year old murder.<br />The ending is so full of plot twists you will think you have whiplash. But the plot evolves in a believable and satifying way that wraps up all the story lines. Recommended as very enjoyable vacation read.	2002-07-04
US	53014416	RX2OKVP7UM37S	0451180429	333139516	The Quiet Game (Penn Cage)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Great characters, murder, racism, conspiracy are the stars	Iles is a great storyteller: The Quiet Game is complex tale set in the \\"old\\" South of racism, greed, and old boys. The engaging hero, Penn Cage, a handsome, 38 year-old former DA and current bestselling author of legal thrillers, was born in Natchez but is not part of the old South. Cage, desolate after a long illness that took the life of his wife Sarah,  decides to return home when he feels he cannot give his 4 year old daughter all the support she needs.  In an interview with the beautiful editor of the local newspaper, Penn brings up a 30 year old unsolved murder of a civil rights activist.  When it is included in the story, ghosts from that era are disturbed and Penn and his family are in danger. When his former high school girlfriend, Livy Marston, comes back home for a visit, old wounds and issues also surface.<br />When Penn decides to investigate the 30 year-old murder, he discovers FBI files are sealed as a matter of national security, reports are missing or falsified and witnesses are in fear of their life if they cooperate. But Penn is persistent and the reader is treated to a fast paced thriller with murder, conspiracy, and many plot twists.<br />What I liked the best about this book were the finely drawn characters. Penn Cage is an honest, intelligent, and appealing man and a loving father to his daughter and a son concerned about someone blackmailing his father. Caitlin, the newspaper editor is infatuated with Cage but is an equal partner is helping him solve the puzzle of the murder. Livy Marston, the former girlfriend is a puzzle, sometimes caring and other times conniving. You are never sure which one will win Penn's heart.<br />There are several things that didnt ring true or slowed the plot a little: a philosophical debate on racism between Caitlin and Penn that did not advance the plot and a key clue that was offered to Penn earlier in the novel but which he did not pick up on til the end.  Still, I was well entertained and will read more of Mr.Iles' works.	2002-06-17
US	53014416	RDQVNA727Q6SF	0399147357	486821945	Dead Sleep	Books	5	0	0	N	N	This thriller soars from the first chapter	In probably one of the best first chapters of any thriller I have read, we meet the heroine, Jordan Glass, a prize winning photojournalist who makes a shocking discovery in a Hong Kong art gallery.  After getting strange looks from the staff, she comes upon an exhibit \\"Nude Women in repose\\", reputed to be of women who are dead, not sleeping, and was shocked to see herself in one of the paintings. The shock turns to terror as she realizes that the painting is probably of her twin sister, Jane, who was kidnapped in New Orleans a year earlier.<br />Thus begins a fast-paced and exciting story as Jordan finds out that the faces in the paintings match the 11 women kidnapped in New Orleans.  Following the paintings to find the painter, Jordan is almost killed as the art dealer is murdered in New York to ensure his silence. She joins the massive FBI task force in New Orleans that includes John Kaiser, task force leader and kindred spirit.  As the trail leads to four painters in New Orleans, she is involved in the interviews to see if any of the suspects \\"recognizes\\" her from the paintings.<br />Iles finely draws Jordan as an accomplished, complex woman who has experienced loss and emotional isolation but who still longs for a stable relationship and, when visiting her niece and nephew, children. There are secondary plots involving the disappearance and probable murder of Jordan's father, also a photojournalist, in Vietnam, who Jordan still thinks may be alive as well as her difficult relationship with her twin as they were growing up. There is also a love interest story with FBI agent Kaiser.<br />The ending is as fast paced as the rest of the novel with some surprises at the end. Some reviewers thought the ending improbable but what I found hard to believe was the extent to which the FBI tolerated Jordan's demand to interview suspects alone and be a key member of their team.  However, I thoroughly enjoyed Jordan and John Kaiser and their quest to find the killer/painter and I highly recommend this novel.	2002-06-13
US	53014416	R1Q1WBP4HH5TXA	0440236169	504517515	Birdman	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Sadistic,psychopathic killer is loose in London	The story of a serial sexual killer is both intriguing and hard to take. Intriguing because Mo Hayder has a very tight and complex plot involving the search for a killer of prostitutes who is acting out some unknown script through the dressing up and surgical mutilation of their bodies. Hard to take because of the graphic descriptions of the torture and mutilation.  If you can get over the graphic scenes you are in for quite a thrilling story.<br />When five decomposing bodies are found near the Millenium dome in Greenwich, England, headlines proclaim \\"Millenium Jack the Ripper?\\" Detective Inspector Jack Caffery, newly assigned to the Area Major Investigations Pool, is assigned to find out. Caffery has his own personal problems at the same time: a rich spoiled girlfriend who plays on his sympathies claiming her cancer has returned and a next door neighbor who is a former pedophile and who Jack is still trying to prove killed his younger brother twenty-five years ago.<br />When a link is discovered between a local pub and the victims, Caffery delves into the world of prostitutes, dancers and drugs. The murderer is revealed to us midway through the book and we watch the clues unravel as the police discover his identity. When it appears the killer is in hand and all is well, the killings resume. <br />The complex plot of the murders, mutilation, why they are done and the rationale for birds  that are sewn into the victims' bodies make for a great read. The ending of this book is truly breathless as the police chase the suspect before he murders two more women, one with a personal tie to Caffery.	2002-06-09
US	53014416	R1M5TW06R49MKN	0553800973	608893858	Body of Lies (Eve Duncan)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Setting, conspiracy, supporting characters spice this tale	This is the third in the series about Eve Duncan, forensic sculptor. While the first chapter does provide some background information on the series, I strongly recommend you first read \\"The Search\\" and \\"Final Target\\" in that order.<br />The story begins with Eve happily living at her lakeside Georgia home, with her partner, Atlanta police detective Joe Quinn and their adopted daughter Jane. Then a sudden series of events upsets this domestic bliss and puts Eve at odds with Joe. These events were targeted to get Eve to accept a job to sculpt a skull in Louisiana. Here in the bayou country, Eve is protected by Sean Galen, who returns from earlier novels. Galen may be the most interesting character, part bodyguard/assassin, part confidante, companion and gourmet cook. While forces are pushing her to find the identity of the skull, others are trying to prevent her from accomplishing this, resulting in attempts on her life and those of her family. Other very interesting characters are a villain with many faces, an investigative journalist and the adopted daughter Jane, who at times seems stronger than either of her parents.<br />There is a lot of plot interest with twists, conspiracies, and false identities. In the middle of the book, there was a little too much personal interaction between Eve and Joe that slows the plot, with Eve still upset with the lie uncovered that caused her to bolt from Georgia. Luckily the action speeds up with a satisfying ending that has some surprises.<br />While this was not my favorite of the three Eve Duncan mysteries, it was still an enjoyable read.	2002-06-08
US	53014416	RWGYUOU4I13CE	0425183769	569781050	Line of Vision	Books	5	9	9	N	N	You can't put this spellbinding story down....	In this ingenious first novel, David Ellis tells the story in this psychological legal thriller through commentary by the main character, Marty Kalish, an investment banker. Kalish, an up-and-comer in a prestigious firm, tells us his story in real time and flashbacks of a love affair with married socialite Rachel Reinhardt. Early in the novel, we learn that Marty killed her surgeon husband who was in the process of beating Rachel. Or what did happen?  Marty proceeds to build alibis, ditch evidence but is still arrested for the murder despite the lack of a body or any physical evidence connecting him to the murder scene.<br />Through the preparation for the trial, we learn more about Marty  whose life was focused on succeeding in business to build up personal wealth. Except for a close relationship to his nephew, Marty has few redeeming relationships in his life. You do build a strange kinship with him in his struggle to build a defense and in his reactions to events with his former lover.<br />The most spellbinding part of this novel is that as it proceeds, Marty's exposition of what really happened keeps changing....This baffles both the defense lawyers and the reader and when the final solution unwinds in the last pages, you may be surprised. However unlike other surprise endings this one ends in a very satisfying way, with ends tied up very logically.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed this fast paced novel and look forward to future legal thrillers by Mr. Ellis.	2002-06-07
US	53014416	R20B76BT0ZU1L1	0380731851	733601761	Mystic River	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Dark, brooding psychological thriller	This is my fourth Dennis Lehane and it is quite different from Lehane's Kenzie/Gennaro P.I. series. After thinking about it, it was like peeling an onion--the more you read, the deeper you still had to go. The setting is still Lehane's Boston but this time in lower class neighborhood of the Flats and slightly better neighborhood of the Point.<br />The story revolves around childhood friends Jimmy, Sean and Dave--from different neighborhoods but friends because of their dads. Life changes dramatically when child molesters posing as police take Dave away. Although Dave escapes after 4 days, things are never the same. Twenty five years later the three are reunited when Jimmy's 19 year old daughter, Kate, is found brutually murdered. Sean is the investigating state trooper and Dave is involved as a distant relative of the victim and possible witness/suspect.<br />This is one of the best and most complex psychological thrillers I have ever read. At the beginning, Lehane teases you by seeming to reveal the murderer upfront but don't be fooled--nothing is easy and straighforward in this novel. Kate's murder is only one of many engrossing plots that involve the three men, their families, neighbors and lives.<br />One recurrent theme is that the past comes back to haunt each of the three--relating to whether they did or didn't get into the car and what happened to them since that time. Revenge, loss, sorrow and demons are all key parts of this intricate plot.  You won't see the ending coming until you get there and be warned that this is definitely noir and hard boiled.  If you are like me, you will really enjoy the plotting and characterization and will think about this book for a while.	2002-06-05
US	53014416	R2QTLSSGQEXOV	0380804212	211102990	Fury	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Renegade journalist works to stop execution of innocent man	This title is the lead of my review of this journalism expo set in Seattle, starring non-conformist, recluse journalist Frank Corso.  When first hired by the Seattle Sun newspaper, Corso works on the Trashman serial murders. When mentally deranged Walter Leroy Himes is tagged for the murders, everyone breathes a sigh of relief and Corso goes on to write a bestseller crime novel.<br />Out of the blue, six days before planned execution of Himes, the key witness comes to the newspaper office to say she lied and was not attacked by Himes.  Thus begins a whirlwind effort to get the police to get a stay of execution, and failing that, work to find the real killer.<br />Along the way, we get to meet Frank Corso, an interesting journalist who became a recluse after an earlier mistake at a New York paper and an even more interesting character, his photographer and partner in solving this case, Meg Dougherty. You will remember her long after this book for the physical attribute that makes her unique--head to toe tattoos--you will have to read the how and why--as well as her strong, straightforward personality.  She is a full partner to Corso despite his secrecy  about himself and he comes to respect her. Her investigation yields some of the key clues that solve the case. Also worthy of note is the owner of the Seattle Sun, Natalie Van Der Hoven--a Katherine Graham type--who is plucky, strong and can pull political strings. Because she gave Corso a job after he was fired in New York, he \\"owes\\" her and she convinces him to take the Himes case, which results in redemption for both Corso and the finances of the newspaper.<br />This is an easy read that I would recommend for the interesting characters and setting.	2002-06-05
US	53014416	R2G5RN32BIAOOG	0345426266	955062554	The Analyst	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Chilling, suspenseful, tour-de-force	A psychoanalyst, very set in his ways, gets his life turned upside down when he receives a letter that tells him he has committed a wrong and has only 15 days to live. This is a whirlwind story where nothing is as it seems and the deck seems stacked against Dr. Frederick Starks getting the information to be able to provide the real name of the villain \\"Rumplestiltskin\\" to call off the death threat. Rumplestiltskin sends clues and  messengers to help Starks but this help is more than offset by the destruction and false clues he also sends. As the time ticks down and Starks gets more and more desperate, you feel frightened for him. <br /> The character development of Starks is extremely well done. He is entirely believable as a plain vanilla, run of the mill psychoanalyst who is not overly concerned about his patients, or his fellow man. When his life gets turned upside down, he is forced to dramatically change and he surprises himself (and us) with the new man he is becoming.<br />There are a lot of similarities in the first part of the book with the movie \\"The Game\\" where a man has his pampered life turned inside out and has to go on the run to stay alive. The second half of the book is not as frightening but just as intriguing as Starks tries to find out the identity of Rumplestiltskin and why this is happening to him.<br />There are many twists and turns that make this a not-to-be missed thriller!!!!  Highly recommended; sit back and enjoy the wild ride.	2002-05-26
US	53014416	R36SY2FQV5OTT9	042516408X	55997621	Death of a Blue Lantern (Inspector Wang Mystery)	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	Fascinating Police Procedural in Modern Communist China	I am always interested in reading novels set in a place I want to visit. That is what I got in Death of a Blue Lantern plus a lot more.  In addition to the plot being set in Beijing, some action occurs in Canton, Shanghai and in the mountains in northern China.<br />The hero of this novel is Inspector Wang Anzhuang of the Beijing Central Investigations Division. While spending an evening at the opera, Wang finds a dead body in the theater and launches into a complex investigation of the murder, Chinese Triad mob and thefts of precious artifacts. As the investigation unfolds, we see the influence of the communist party on the police department including a mandatory \\"self-criticism\\" of each individual's thoughts and actions during the 1989 Tiananmen Square revolution/massacre.  Wang is very conflicted about his government's decisions to fire weapons and its impact on the student protestors. His own actions are called into question, making him, in turn, question his commitment to the beliefs of his party versus the more open Western culture.<br />The ideology does not get in the way of a good police story and in fact some of the party leaders are suspects in certain crimes.<br />This is an easy read and was a nice follow-up to the Chinese story line in Jeffrey Deaver's Stone Monkey that I recently finished.	2002-05-26
US	53014416	R1P7LYYRZ89OI	1575668289	450119686	Witness For The Defense	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Entertaining courtroom drama	I thoroughly enjoyed my first outing with Jonnie Jacobs' legal heroine Kali O'Brien. Returning to San Francisco after her married lover returned to his wife, Kali is just putting her life back together when another former boyfriend, Steven Cross, refers his sister Terri Harper to Kali to handle a pending adoption. Harper lost a child earlier when a parent changed her mind before the adoption was final so she sought legal advice.  Things go haywire when a controversial radio talk show host, Bram Weaver, claims the child is his and announces his intention to gain custody. When Weaver is brutually murdered, Terri is picked up as the most likely subject.<br />Throughout the development and conduct of Terri's defense, Kali seeks to find other explanations of the circumstantial evidence against her client but desperately tries to find out alternative suspects. There are several interesting side plots, including resumption of a love interest between Kali and Steven Cross and the uncovering of the hit and run killer of Cross's wife and daughter.<br />I thought I discovered the real murderer through several obsure clues and was pretty sure I was right until the very end. The ending was a bit disappointing as the conclusion of several plot lines unraveled all at once in an unbelievable way.   <br />Still the story was intriguing, the characters--including Kali's senior citizen roommates--likable and interesting and I had a great weekend read.	2002-05-19
US	53014416	R3Q441GKQ1PIL9	1551665735	870830835	A Perfect Evil	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Intriguing Debut Novel	Many of us have dreamed of writing a novel, perhaps a thriller, that would have some public success. Alex Kava has done very well for herself in this novel about how a serial killer terrorizes a small Nebraska town.<br />Young boys are disappearing in a small Nebraska town and a handsome, likable but inept sherriff, Nick Morelli, calls in the FBI to help stop the spree of a serial killer who kidnaps and kills young boys from single parent families. Morelli's father gained fame when he brought another serial killer of three boys to justice, but is this a copycat or was the wrong man put to death?<br />Maggie O'Dell, the FBI profiler, is the heroine of this novel. Wounded, literally and psychologically by a cannibalistic serial killer, and coming from a failed marriage, Maggie struggles to find the clues before another boy is brutalized. While sheriff Nick Morelli is clearly inept and misplaced in his job, his sister is struggling to succeed as a journalist and uses inside information to grab headlines despite the threat this may cause to her law enforcement brother. Antonio Morelli, the retired sheriff father of Nick is an overpowering brute, trying to overshadow his weak son.<br />You think you know who the killer is early in the novel but the author tries to throw you off the scent by pointing to other suspects.  Some weak areas of the novel include the lackluster and unbelievable romance between Maggie and Nick, some plot developments that are easy to predict and an unsatisfying ending that opens the door to a sequel.<br />Overall this is a very entertaining portrayal of small town terror.  It makes a great airplane read.	2002-05-12
US	53014416	R2FBZS8EHAYQEU	0743221990	736731828	The Stone Monkey: A Lincoln Rhyme Novel (Lincoln Rhyme Novels)	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Gripping Thriller with plot twists and great characters	I haven't read a Lincoln Rhyme book since Bone Collector and I now see what I have missed. Stone Monkey was a great addition to the series, again featuring Lincoln Rhyme, Amelia Sachs and some great new characters, particularly Chinese cop, Sonny Li.<br />The scene is set off Long Island on a Chinese ship carrying illegal aliens who come to the U.S. to avoid persecution in China. When the human smuggler, the Ghost, sees that the ship is to be intercepted by the Coast Guard, he blows it up. Thus begins a cat-and-mouse tale of intrigue, following the trail of the escaped Chinese aliens, the Ghost determined to track them down and kill them, and Lincoln Rhyme, FBI, INS, and NYPD, looking to find the Ghost before he kills the Chinese.<br />Good forensic investigation of trace evidence at the crime scenes, including one nifty search of the submerged ship,  produces some near dramatic near-misses and face-offs. The plot twists and red herrings really surprised me and turned the plot in new directions that I would not have suspected. Deaver also uses the tool of letting the reader know some pertinent info before the police so you are almost shouting at them to look at the new evidence to catch the Ghost.<br />I really liked the new character, a chinese cop named Sonny Li.  He describes himself as \\"one good f--- cop, I'm saying\\".  His Tao philosophy and insights at first annoy Rhyme and Sachs but when some of his guesses prove right, they begin to pay attention. Li also provides some insights to Rhyme who is considering some risky surgery that might give him more movement in his hand. I also enjoyed the discussion of Chinese medicine and Feng Shui, the art of designing to provide good luck.<br />Many stories either start slow, plod in the middle or drag on in the ending. This plot took off at a breakneck pace and never slowed down. Highly recommended.	2002-05-12
US	53014416	R3SYEBG1GXNQLN	0451204891	405050093	The Hearing (Dismas Hardy)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Praise from a first time Lescroart reader	In the legal thriller/police procedural, Lescroart weaves an intriguing story with likable, believable, well-drawn characters.  This is one of the Dismas Hardy series (I will go back and read the others) featuring Hardy as a low rent but hard working attorney and Abe Glitsky as a police homocide lieutenant with a very personal interest in the murder of up-and-coming attorney Elaine Wager.  When the sister of a drug addict, charged with Wager's murder, asks for help, Hardy reluctantly assists. But when the DA asks for the death penalty in an apparent alcohol/drug induced murder, Hardy smells a rat.  Actually there are lots of rats in the operation of the San Francisco police department/DA's office, making Hardy's job quite a bit harder to sort through.<br />What is not hard though, is to really like these characters. Hardy and Glitzky are best friends, a truly odd couple. When Glitzky has a heart attack and is suffering with regret for not having contacted his daughter, Hardy is there for him. Also engaging is Elaine's paralegal who turns up helpful clues as well as the villains in the case--I wont spoil it for you by telling who they are.<br />If you like the early Grisham legal thrillers and police procedurals this book is for you. A word of warning: it gets off to a slow start and at 560 pages is best saved for the beach, weekend away or a very long flight.	2002-05-06
US	53014416	R3G1Q8113ODZJB	0553111132	574421178	Justice Hall	Books	2	13	17	N	N	A Disappointing Entry in a Great Series	Since I have read all books of both series by Laurie R. King, I consider myself a fan.  I looked forward to another intriguing Mary Russell/Sherlock Holmes mystery with the Holmesian intrigue, logic and devices and Mary Russell as both a hero and equal partner to Holmes.<br />Holmes and Russell were rarely in scenes of this book together so there was little interplay or repartee; Holmes was not in many scenes period.  Instead about half of the book focused on \\"background\\" issues such as discussion of the architecture used in Justice Hall (which is a castle), peerage, bloodlines and family history of the Duke who occupies it.   About halfway through, the plot gets going and my interest picked up.<br />  The story involves two characters from O Jerusalem, Mahlmoud and Ali. Mahlmoud's brother died and he, now answering to the English name Marsh, assumes the responsibility as the 7th Duke. Holmes and Russell find him uneasy in this role which he feels is his duty. There are several plot lines--a more minor one about a child who is purported to be Mahlmoud's nephew and thus an heir to title (this plot line doesnt get tied up properly in the end) and the main story line about Mahlmoud's and Iris's son Gabrielle who is executed in WW I. The mystery involved unearthing what happened to Gabrielle and if it was a murder.<br />Even though the second half was much better than the first, I still found that I could guess ahead of time some of the major plot developments and the Holmes/Russell interaction time did not improve. The one saving grace in the second half was the prominence of the character Iris--an artist nominally married to Mahlmoud who lives in Paris with her lesbian lover.  Iris was portrayed in a warm, sensitive and interesting way and I hope she  returns to the series.<br />So my rating is 2 stars--an average of one star for the first half and three stars for the second half.<br />If you are a Laurie King fan, you may do well to skim the first half and concentrate on the more interesting second half.  Also you can hope that Ms. King returns to her winning formula with Holmes and Russell in book seven.	2002-04-19
US	53014416	R1IFVQIGHNR835	0394556178	494921316	Interview with the Vampire	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Riveting tale of horror and humanity	Anne Rice tells an appealing and scary tale as Louie, a vampire from New Orleans, tells his story to a youth in modern day New Orleans. I was surprised at the \\"belivability\\" of this tale as I was puzzling out how some events happened --when they did not happen!<br />Louie is made a vampire by the vampire, Lestat and struggles to understand both the vampire nature and how he can live with the evil side--the need to feast on blood every evening--and its implications. When Lestat turns a 5 year old girl into a vampire, Louie finds a focus for his life, the care of this precious \\"child\\".  Without giving any spoilers, they travel to Paris where they find the Theatre des Vampires and a lot of their kind. Louie finds Armand, who he learns to love and other developments tear apart Louie's world.<br />A fascinating and scary work, this story is enhanced by its dramatization by F. Murray Abraham who gives each character's voice special interpretation. I particularly liked his vocalization of the elderly vampire, Lestat.<br />Save this for a medium range car trip or a daily commute without children.	2002-04-12
US	53014416	R1Q8XGGKZGFZ99	0446516570	265598858	Up Country: A Novel	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Not a "typical" Demille but a riveting story!	Up Country is not a typical Demille thriller: it is part suspense, part travelogue of Vietnam and part personal history of the Vietnam war.  However this mix makes a riveting story that I couldn't put down.<br />There is familiar Demille territory here too. Paul Brenner, a character in \\"The General's Daughter\\" and now retired, is enlisted by his former boss in the Army's Criminal Investigation Division for an undercover assignment in Vietnam.  The story he is given concerns a 30 year old murder allegedly just uncovered--an American officer killing another officer-- for which he is to see if there is any physical evidence to recover.  Smelling a rat but not having much to do in his retirement, and in a limbo relationship, he reluctantly agrees to go. Some of his reluctance is due to his previous history in Vietnam--he saw two tours of duty and still has nightmares from his experiences. An ulterior motive in his assignment is to see if some of the ghosts will go away when he returns to the old battlegrounds.<br />In Vietnam, he meets an American ex=patriate who serves as his guide and with whom he develops a relationship. As they pursue the 30 year old murder, they have to escape the surveillance of the communist secret police (Colonel Mang is a worthy adversary for Brenner), find their way into North Vietnam, and relive for Brenner the places where he had some of his worst war experiences. As he explains what happens to Susan, his guide and lover, she begins to see Vietnam in a new light and so do we. I found the first person war history fascinating. It also was seamlessly woven into the story as an integral part as was the description of the countryside and people of Vietnam.<br />There is suspense as well--in addition to the cat and mouse chase with the secret police, there is, of course, another reason why Brenner was sent to Vietnam that is more complex than a 30 year old murder by an \\"unknown\\" GI.<br />Also familiar, and much appreciated, is Demille's characterdevelopment of Brenner as an irreverent, wise-cracking but complex hero.  I laughed aloud at many of his cynical remarks.<br />Demille is a great storyteller and I was very happy that I traveled \\"Up Country\\".	2002-04-07
US	53014416	R3FOYWUBJNV1LA	0345382323	298744764	The PMS Outlaws : An Elizabeth MacPherson Novel	Books	2	5	7	N	N	This Sharon McCrumb is a disappointment	As a fan of McCrumb's Appalachian series (She walks these hills, Rosewood casket) I didnt think I could go wrong with a try of her Elizabeth MacPherson series. What a disappointment! I see from other reviews that this is not the first entry, but after reading this I have no desire to read more of the series.<br />MacPherson is a forensic anthropologist but in this novel, we only see her as a widow in denial that her marine biologist husband somehow survived when his boat was lost at sea. She voluntarily checks herself into a private mental institution to overcome her depression.  In the mental institution we learn superficially about several other patients and there is a small (very small) mystery involving one of them.<br />Meanwhile in other story lines, we follow a thread involving her lawyer brother and his partner A.P. Post. Post's former college friend, also a lawyer has broken an inmate out of prison and the two of them have become the PMS bandits, robbing men and leaving them handcuffed and humiliated.<br />I can't categorize this novel as either mystery or suspense.  I couldn't get interested in any of the characters; the heroine was too depressed to be interesting herself. The PMS bandits story line was a rather silly one that fizzled out.<br />I am always hopeful that the story line will improve or something interesting will happen before the novel ends. I was very disappointed that none of these things happened.<br />Don't waste your time on this book--stick to her Appalachian series.	2002-04-06
US	53014416	R33FPG82YOYR27	0380730367	240949428	Prayers for Rain (Patrick Kenzie/Angela Gennaro Novels)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Gripping Psychological Thriller; Unforgettable Characters	I was really wowed by this novel, the first I have read by Dennis Lehane. I really enjoyed the characters as well--Boston P.I. Patrick McKenzie, his trenchcoat wearing boyhood friend and gun runner Bubba Rogowski and his former partner Angie Gennaro, who grandfather is with the italian mob.<br />McKenzie is hired by Karen Nichols to stop a stalker. McKenzie and Bubba deliver a not so subtle threat/beating and all seems well. Mc Kenzie does not have time to return a second call from Nichols and the next time he hears about her is about her suicide on the news. Feeling guilty that he should have responded earlier, McKenzie starts investigating a bizzare case of psychological warfare, blackmail and murder that is fascinating and chilling all at once. There are lots of bad guys, including Nichols heartless parents and step brother.  All is not what it seems in this broad conspiracy of evil. When the identity of the villain is revealed, the warfare becomes very personal, with the fight to the death.<br />Compelling,scary, and  hard-to-put down, Prayers for Rain is not to be missed!!!!	2002-04-06
US	53014416	RR9V8UO6J4Q00	0316695068	546468505	Hell to Pay: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Compelling View of "the other Washington D.C."	This gritty, hard-boiled crime novel is a little hard to take--I almost didn't make it past the street-tough, violent young perps in the first chapter.  But I am glad I presevered for this look that most of us who live in D.C.--I have lived in the D.C. area all of my life--don't see from the suburbs.  There is just enough recognizable in the streets, bars, landmarks and radio stations that you know Pelecanos is a D.C. native who knows what goes on in the streets. <br />P.I. Derek Strange teams up with his white friend and former D.C. cop Terry Quinn to work on several cases.  There are many interesting story lines--one missing girl turned prostitute case from the P.I firm, a plot of revenge on two levels--one for \\"dissing\\" a street punk and the other for a senseless killing and very personal stories of working with a Pee Wee football team to give neighborhood kids a chance and for Strange and Quinn trying to redeem their own personal lives.<br />After learning more about Pelecanos, I found out that Derek Strange and other characters have drawn on many aspects of his life--from helping his father in a greasy spoon diner in D.C., to his profiling of a shoe clerk--an occupation he lived for several years--to his frequenting many of the hangouts of Strange and Quinn. <br />Pelecanos paints a very vivid picture of the hopelessness, crime and the allure of the drug trade for youths with few options and a very short life expectancy.  There is hope in his story--through the work of volunteers with football and other youth activities, we see that there is a way out for some of the kids if they choose it. Hell to Pay is a grim story, but I am glad he told it and I read it. I plan to go back and read the first story of Strange and Quinn, \\"Right as Rain\\" as well as his early novels.	2002-03-26
US	53014416	R3LOPPT9MX7HBJ	1893937038	933459136	The Cultural Literacy Trivia Guide	Books	3	0	0	N	Y	Interesting trivia read and good prep for contests	Despite a good number of errors, all pointed out in detail in these reviews, I found this an interesting book that had lots of fun facts. Its great for reading out loud to friends to have them guess the answers as well as trying to remember some of them yourself.<br />I used this book as a study guide for a jeopardy tryout and there were a number of answers from this book. You will need to study it in more detail than I did and you hopefully will have a better result. If using this to study for a game show, I would also suggest adding an atlas and some information on popular culture.	2002-03-26
US	53014416	RNQZ6FUKCO1O5	0385503822	782272714	The Summons	Books	3	11	15	N	N	A pleasant read but not a legal "thriller"	I was anxiously awaiting this novel, having been teased by the hype of \\"pre-order yours now\\".  I got this book on a Sunday afternoon at 3pm and was finiahed by 10pm.  My experience was an interesting one, having been drawn in by Grisham's good scene setting in Charlottesville, Va and various locations in Mississippi and believable characters. Ray Atlee, a law professor at the University of Va, is a likable character and we can also understand his dread at being summoned by his dying, hardnosed judge-father to discuss his estate. His no-good brother Forrest, an alcoholic and drug addict who has never been clean for more than 6 months is a believable and sad character.  When money is unexpectedly found at the father's house, along with his father's dead body, a chase begins with Ray trying to outrun whoever knows he took the money.<br />In my analyses of the plot development, I think there is too much time moving the money and watching the money and repetitive break-ins and near misses with finding the bad guys. Ray does find out where the money came from and that is interesting...The ending comes all at once and could have been developed in a more satisfying way.<br />The point is that I was interested enough to want to find out what happened and I was entertained along the way.  This would make a pleasant airport read. I did not read any of the reviews here before I read the book--if I had I probably wouldn't have read it and that would have been too bad.<br />I have read all of the Grisham novels with the exception of the Painted House and the Christmas novel.  I have been a little disappointed with his last few books like the Brethren.  I do admit my preference for his novels like the Firm and Pelican Brief...<br />Just be aware that as he progresses as a writer, Grisham is deviating from his earlier successes with tightly plotted legal thrillers. This is more of a suspenseful story that takes place in the South.	2002-03-26
US	53014416	RXROA30CDJBLL	0345440439	661468766	Do What You Love for the Rest of Your Life: A Practical Guide to Career Change and Personal Renewal	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Wow--Bob Griffiths wrote this book for me!	I was attracted to the title of this book since I have been in the same field for 30 years and have begun to feel burnt out. I didnt see a way out before normal retirement, until I read this book. <br />This book has been very helpful to me since it includes a step by step guide to identifying your passions, what you do well, your fears, your financial picture (including differentiating between needs and wants), family concerns and more. Equally encouraging are first person reports from people who actually made dramatic life style changes and are doing what they love. I have gone over the sections and am just finishing evaluating my finances and feel that I am in a better position to make a change in the next few years. I now see that some lifestyle changes, an early or normal retirement with a reduced income and a part time job could give me options that will improve the quality of life for myself and my family.<br />Sometimes you need a nudge or another way of seeing things differently. This book has given that to me and I highly recommend it.	2002-02-18
US	53014416	R2JXVHKY029T5R	0786865644	916635301	Parallel Lies	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Railroad suspense story is a great ride	I enjoyed my first outing with Ridley Pearson that tells the story of murder and sabotage where all is not what it seems.  Peter Tyler, an ex-cop who was made a scapegoat for his beating of a child molester, is down on his luck. He lost his job, his girlfriend and is about to lose his house when the National Transportation Safety Board contracts with him for an investigation of a possible homicide in the mid-West.   This is his last chance at saving his reputation and perhaps his life and he doesnt intend to mess this up. He vigorously follows all clues and starts to piece together what happened between two men in a boxcar.<br />At the same time we are introduced to Umberto Alvarez who lost his wife and twins when a crossing guard gate did not work.  He was attacked in the boxcar by a railroad investigator intent  on covering up for the Railroad. Bent on revenge, Alvarez, an ex-Science teacher and computer expert plans to ensure that Northern Union Railroad acknowledges their guilt and suffers financial loss.<br />It is quite interesting to figure out if people are really what they seem. Who are the bad guys and who are the heroes? Tyler is a likable anti-hero and Alvarez is appealing as a \\"bad guy\\" who wont hurt anyone in his revenge plans.  The Railroad people are usually, but not always, up to no good. I especially enjoyed learning about the railroad industry and in seeing how skillfully Alvarez plots his revenge, using multiple identities, and carefully engineering each step of the way.  The plot was very engaging, I couldnt wait to find out what happened next.  The romance between Tyler and the Northern Union investigator Nell, was not very passionate or convincing but this was a small blemish on an otherwise engrossing tale.	2002-02-17
US	53014416	R10ACK8YN7UOJ6	0786866209	816084289	Conflict of Interest: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Painful story but a good one	The painful part of the story does not refer to writing or plotting but to the abuse of a developmentally disabled young adult by two hoodlum &quot;friends&quot; and his poor treatment by the justice system.<br />The story revolves around the trial of Ian Decker, the developmentally disabled adult and his friends, the Rubinsky brothers for the robbery of a convenience store.  Decker's attorney tries to convince the Assistant DA, Joanne Kuhlman, the heroine of the story, that Ian was an unwilling dupe.  Kuhlman, who recently spent all her funds to successfully find her two children who were abducted by her ex-husband for two years, has to face her own issues with re-establishing a relationship with a rebellious pregnant 15 year old and a 12 year old who looks 16.<br />The story proceeds on several parallel lines, following the Decker/Rubinsky story as well as developments in Joanna's own life. The manipulation of Decker by his friends--including stealing his credit card, getting him expelled from his subsidized housing, stealing cars from his family business is difficult to watch happen. When it appears that Decker has been murdered, all join in to find his body and murderer.<br />  I enjoyed the development of the characters and Joanna's personal story. Despite the quick way many of the loose ends were resolved in a &quot;happily ever after&quot; way in the end, this is still a worthwhile read.	2002-02-17
US	53014416	R2VU9AIU45DM16	0553801449	837851195	Incriminating Evidence	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Entertaining and suspenseful legal thriller	In a strange but intriguing plot, the San Francisco DA, Prentice Gates, who is running for Attorney General, is accused of murdering a young male prostitute under bizarre conditions.  Mike Daley, hired as Gates' lawyer, is a cynical, wise-cracking ex-Priest, ex-Assistant DA and ex-husband of his partner, Rosie Fernandez, in a low rent legal firm.  Despite their uncooperative client, Mike and Rosie, who need the high \\"a--hole retainer\\", work to find out what really happened the night of the murder. <br />    As the plot unfolds, secondary plots and suspects add to the suspense. The characters are very likable: I particularly enjoyed the wise-cracking, non-conformist Mike Daley and the hysterical 85 year old private detective  Hanson, who works first for Gates' opponent to dig up dirt on him, then switches sides mid-trial to work for Daley to dig up dirt on some of the suspects for the defense.<br />The entertainment and plot twists continue til the very end. This is my first Sheldon Siegel book and I look forward to reading more adventures of Mike Daley.	2002-01-31
US	53014416	RNSIWQPEZIR5T	0312266154	919889268	Killing the Shadows	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Characters are intriguing but plot falls short	I very much enjoyed the two main characters of the novel, Fiona Campbell, an academic psychologist, who consults as a psychological/geographical profiler with police, and Kit Martin, a popular crime novelist.  Most interesting to me was the premise that a psychologist could develop a program, which, when loaded with relevant information from a grouping of like crimes, can point out clues to the identity of a serial killer, or rapist. This is still a futuristic concept but is intriguing when it becomes doable.  Martin and Cameron are an appealing couple and the secondary plots of a serial murderer in Spain and  a bicylist/murderer in England are very intresting. What doesn't work well at all is the main plot which involves a grudge and a \\"hit list\\" of best selling crime novelists who are systemically killed according to the plots in their best selling books. The concept has been overdone in many novels. There is a red herring thrown in that is not believable and the serial killer is unmasked in a way that is also not believable and very unsatisfying.<br />While I still enjoyed aspects of this book, it does not approach her fantastic \\"Place of Execution\\" which I read before this novel. I was disappointed here but plan to try more of Ms. McDermid's works.	2002-01-31
US	53014416	R3MU3ISR62QW28	0312979533	52317828	A Place of Execution	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Gem of a mystery not to be missed	Set in England in 1963, this British thriller is anything but a &quot;cosy&quot;. Thirteen year-old Allison disappears while walking her dog in the strange, insular and perhaps incestuous village of Scardale. Detective Inspector Bennett, assigned to the case, plunges in and gets to know the villagers, their lives and concerns. Despite his best efforts, neither Allison or her body can be found.  Bennett becomes consumed with the case and cannot rest until he finds Allison for her mother.  Villagers seem to be both secretive and concerned about Allison, making the job more difficult for police. Clues such as where she could have been abducted and possibly murdered do unfold and point to her stepfather as the suspect. <br />The novel comes in parts and Part 2 begins when a novelist documents the case 30 years later.  Although the crime had been &quot;solved&quot; 30 years earlier, the story and nightmare begin again when Bennett collapses with a heart attack after making a horrible discovery. <br />A gripping, taut story with intriguing characters and a plot where things are not what they seem.  This is my favorite book of 2001.	2002-01-31
US	53014416	R26JJGCJL4TYDW	0740715674	693850140	Dilbert 2002 Day-To-Day Calendar	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Always good for a laugh	Every evening before dinner we review the Dilbert cartoon of the day. I dont have time to read the strip in the paper and we always enjoy these moments. The calendar part is just an excuse to get a daily laugh.  The points are so close to home, I wonder where Scott Adams sits in my office.  Highly recommended, we buy one every year.	2002-01-26
US	53014416	R6Q22UIKNZF2A	1570063605	957881438	Zagatsurvey 2001-2002 Washington D.C., Baltimore Restaurants (ZAGATSURVEY: WASHINGTON DC/BALTIMORE RESTAURANTS)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The BEST dining guide for  Washington/Baltimore/Annapolis!	This is an indispensible reference guide for dining in the Washington, Baltimore and Annapolis areas. It is easy to understand and navigate with reviews of most restaurants in terms of food, decor/ambiance, price etc. The reviews are right on for the restaurants I have tried.  Also very handy are the crossreferences for many categories such as brunch, parking, late night dining etc.  Probably the best feature is another index listing the &quot;best&quot; restaurants for various occasions as identified by readers.<br />Highly recommended, I get a new one every year.	2002-01-26
US	53014416	R1NH4XCZXVTMAC	0679442782	233065049	Holidays	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Nice seasonal entry to the Bon Appetit series	I am a huge fan of the Bon Appetit cookbook series--I think I own 8 of them. This is a nice entry for holiday celebrations--menus and recipes for a variety of holidays. I recently used this cookbook for some of its Christmas cookie recipes and was very pleased. The nice thing about these recipes are they are not too complicated and you will be very pleased with the result, even if you try them out on company the first time you use them.<br />I did not rate this as five stars since the holiday format limits some of the flexibility and depth of the other cookbooks.  My favorites in the series are still  Too Busy to Cook 1 and 2, and Bon Appetit--Weekend entertaining.  Still, a very good choice to add to your repetoire	2002-01-26
US	53014416	R3EFPSN0T6OHGB	0812923189	365194343	Menopause: The Most Comprehensive, Up-to-Date Information Available to Help You Understand This Stage of Life, Make the Right Treatment Choices, and ... (A Massachusetts General Hospital book)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Still remains a good reference book on menopause	Even though this book was published in 1996, it remains a good reference book for &quot;women of a certain age&quot; and those who love them.  I found particularly useful the section on symptoms of menopause to see if my experiences were connected or associated with something else. Also helpful are the tips on ways to relieve symptoms,including natural, non-HRT options.  While research is always changing, from what I have read in medical newsletters much of this book is still very sound.	2002-01-25
US	53014416	R21G0ZSSRMPGAJ	0375402500	606944200	Bon Appetit Weekend Entertaining: A Cookbook, Menu Planner & Entertaining Sourcebook for Occasions Large or Small,  Casual or Elegant	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Bon Appetit does it again--a great resource for entertaining	With my busy schedule, I dont have the luxury to test new dishes before I entertain. I know I can always count on recipes from Bon Appetit cookbooks and this one is no exception. This book is not only a cookbook but a menu planner and resource guide. Last weekend I had 10 people over and served the following from the book:  spicy shrimp in snow peas, deviled eggs with smoked salmon and green onions, spinach bacon spirals, and layered enchilada casserole.  All got rave reviews. In the fall I used dishes from the barbecue menu.  This book gives menus and planning tips for a number of entertaining ideas--from Saturday potluck to help yourself brunch to drinks and eats. <br />I highly recommend this book--get it anyway you can. But you can't have mine.....	2002-01-22
US	53014416	R1QPAOGEE6X1AG	0451204530	356134546	Code To Zero	Books	3	3	4	N	N	An engaging story, even if not his best	I found this account of space flight in the 1950's very entertaining.  While the concept of wiping out someone's short term memory is hard to believe, I enjoyed the idea of trying to find out who you are by testing your knowledge and experiences. The hero, Luke, found out who he was too quickly, but the whole story has a quick and entertaining pace. Follett created an insight into the world of early space launches at Cape Kennedy and I enjoyed the action switching from D.C. to Alabama, to Florida.  I bought this book for a long plane ride and was happily engaged  for the trip.  I echo the wishes of other reviewers that the characters should profit from more development, particularly Luke's wife.  All in all, a worthwhile effort.	2002-01-22
US	53014416	R38MIWCJN58QOG	074340615X	825511748	Two O'Clock, Eastern Wartime	Books	3	4	4	N	N	More historical fiction than thriller	I bought this in an airport because of the cover reviews that was a &quot;gripping thriller that you couldn't put down&quot;. I found it instead to be an interesting retrospective of the days when radio was the main entertainment media. It was very interesting to go behind the scene to see what it took to put on gripping radio dramas and serials.  It was a little unbelievable that the hero, Jordan Ten Eyck, aka Jack Dulaney, could come up with full blown radio scripts at the rate of one a day, but suspending your belief there, he is a likable hero.  I decided to finish the novel despite some slow going sections and was glad I did.<br />What this is not, is a suspenseful thriller. There is some suspense woven in between the many pages of historical radio detail, but a thriller it is not. I enjoy some historical or subject matter background to my thrillers and mysteries--eg the racing stories that are part of Dick Francis' mysteries. However, with this book, there is about 100 pages too much detail for it to be considered a gripping story.   So forewarned is forearmed--if you are looking more for historical fiction on the byegone radio days, this is the book for you. If you want a gripping thriller, look elsewhere.	2002-01-21
US	53014416	R2QQKJY021M6PH	2831562678	10496579	Berlitz Japanese Phrase Book & Dictionary (Berlitz Phrase Book) (English and Japanese Edition)	Books	4	22	23	N	Y	Indispensible aid to communicating in Japanese	This phrasebook was used as a &quot;textbook&quot; by a Japanese student who tutored me in Japanese before a recent trip to Japan. It contained many helpful phrases for a lot of situations you will encounter when traveling in Japan. I consider this critical for &quot;survival Japanese&quot;--contrary to what you may have heard, everyone does NOT speak English. I used this book in talking to cab drivers, making a train reservation, ordering food, asking directions, making purchases. I gave this four stars instead of five because this lacks some elements you need to be understood. The biggest one is knowing how the Japanese accent words.  Also missing was the discussion of the differences in using different numbers for different objects.  I was able to &quot;fill in the gaps&quot; from my tutor and the Pimsleur Japanese tapes.  All in all, a great reference book for travelers.	2002-01-12
US	53014416	R2AEQGEJQDAANN	038531227X	915242499	The Secret Ingredient Murders: A Eugenia Potter Mystery	Books	3	12	14	N	N	Murder She Wrote--with cooking	There are many similarities between the heroine of this novel, Genia, and Jessica from &quot;Murder She Wrote&quot;.  Both are older women, who live in a small New England town. The characters in the stories are both very likable and your overall experience is comfortable but predictable.  The likable characters, comfort factor and picturesque Rhode Island locale make this a pleasant read.  The downfall is the plot--in some cases very predictable and in one case so absurd it is laughable. I really did like Genia, a former rancher who moved to Rhode Island to help her niece and niece's children. Everyone wants an Aunt Genia--a really caring person.  As the book begins, Genia is working with Stanley Parker on writing a cookbook. Stanley Parker is killed on his way to a dinner party at Genia's house where he is to make a startling revelation. The &quot;suspects&quot; at the party are likable New England townspeople for the most part. You find out that Stanley is very controlling and some aspects of his character wont be missed. Another murder thickens the plot stew and it is wrapped up very quickly at the end. The absurd part of the plot involved an envelope with newspaper clippings that would have revealed the identity of the murderer that Genia seems not to be able to see in Stanley's cookbook, despite having gone through it in much detail earlier, finding several clues.<br />A pleasant read with not much heavy lifting to solve the murder. The recipes seemed good as well.	2001-12-23
US	53014416	R1LAR5JQLHCD8D	477002018X	288398912	Gateway to Japan (Kodansha Guide)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	The only guide you will need for Japan	I read many reviews of Japan guidebooks and bought severalof them.  This book was, by far, the best. A great combination of history, background and practical details, I used this book to prepare for my trip on deciding what to see, as an on-the-spot guide during the visit and to fill in details in my travel diary after I returned home. Highly recommended--just add a Japanese phrase book, some detailed maps and you are ready to go to Japan!	2001-12-20
US	53014416	R2RTS4U23L63TB	0399147195	469684331	P is for Peril : A Kinsey Millhone Mystery	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Skip this one and wait for Q	As a long-time Kinsey Millhone fan--from A to O, I was disappointed by this entry into the series. While Kinsey is an enjoyable heroine and the 80s were the last heyday for traditional private eyes (before cell phones and the internet) the story here was lacking Grafton's great character development. Very few of the characters were appealing and nothing much happens of interest in Kinsey's personal life. The plot is pretty slow going until the end when everything gets solved in an unbelievable rush and in a very unsatifying way.<br />I gave this book three stars since I am still Kinsey fan despite my disappointments in plot and character development. Here's to hoping &quot;Q&quot; will be a return to Grafton's winning formula for Kinsey.	2001-12-14
US	53014416	R3DFGKJPEDOFF2	0671887947	787739482	The Whole Truth	Books	5	4	5	N	N	This new series for Nancy Pickard is a real winner!!!!	I have read  and enjoyed Nancy Pickard's Jenny Cain novels for many years but this new series is really fabulous. As a true crime novel, you are aware of the outcome of a particularly heinous murder trial and the defendant who has just been found guilty.  An outbreak in the courtroom, a shooting of the defendant by the judge and an unexpected jail break are the beginning of the unraveling tale of the story behind the story.  How could Ray Raintree have no traceable past? Was it true he had  no memory of his childhood?  Why did he kill the young girl in such a brutal way and steal one of her organs?<BR>Marie Lightfoot is the very likable heroine, a true crime writer.  Despite all the knowns, she slowly finds out more of the story and creates suspense as we too discover what really happened. There are lots of plot twists that make things interesting and great character development makes all the key characters very appealing.  You will have a hard time putting this book down and the ending is a real surprise.   Pickard throws in a teaser about the heroine--we find out that she is an orphan and it just looks like she too will find out about her past and what happened to her parents....But wait and see. I was so hooked on this series that I immediately got and read the next installment, Ring  of Truth...  You will not be disappointed with this new series.	2001-11-29
US	53014416	RXLYII42L7J64	0451409329	687488927	Living Safe in an Unsafe World: The Complete Guide to Family Preparedness	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	Invaluable reference for September 11 and other emergencies	I first borrowed this book from the library and found it so useful I bought it from Amazon. I live in the Washington, D.C. area and felt very unprepared for emergencies in the aftermath of September 11. This guide helps you create a family emergency plan  and give you tips on keeping safe in more routine situations. Particularly useful was their suggestion of a disaster supplies kit, which I now have. Some items in the kit were predictable--like a first aid kit, but others were not and make a lot of sense like a NOAA emergency radio, list of key addresses and contacts, extra prescription medications etc.  While I don't expect to need it for an evacuation or terrorist emergency, these are supplies I would need in other emergencies from power outtages to storms etc. They recommend that you pack this in a carryall and take with you on trips as well.<br />Also useful was the idea of a family emergency plan--places to meet outside your home in case of an emergency. This would have been very useful on September 11 when all phone and cell phone lines in this area were busy and roads were clogged while people didn't have alternate ways to get home.<br />Other useful topics are in areas such as fire emergency, food related dangers, weather related disasters, dangerous encounters with animals and insects and a great chapter on home related emergencies.<br />I think every home should have a reference book like this one.	2001-11-23
US	53014416	RUVBCRY63ANUY	0300089678	531499520	The Coldest March: Scott`s Fatal Antarctic Expedition	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	An intriguing polar mystery story	I am not an avid reader of polar exploration but I found this tale of adventure, exploration and bravery very much like a good detective story. Even though you know from the beginning what the ending will be, the author slowly reveals facts and builds suspense about the outcome of parts of the story. While reading this book in the comfort of my home, I could imagine what  it must have been like in that frozen world: spending several hours inching my way into an ice-filled sleeping bag or rescuing my companions when they repeatedly fell into one of the hundreds of crevices in the ice.  The controversy about Scott's leadership was fully discussed, with the author showing his flaws as well as his contributions.  I had my favorites among Scott's party and was so involved with them that I found myself almost talking to them.   I particularly enjoyed the stories about the modern visitor to Antarctica at the beginning of each chapter which revealed how difficult life there can still be.  The &quot;visitor&quot; plot lines always tied into some aspect of the story, illustrating some point or raising a question. <BR>There cannot be final proof about the cause of the polar party's deaths but Susan Solomon makes a convincing case that unusually cold weather was a deciding  but not the only factor. The author poses an interesting hypothesis at the end of the book about the final factor that prevented the party from reaching the one-ton depot and safety,  but I won't spoil it for you.<BR>Most of us will never have the opportunity to go to Antarctica, lead explorations or perform feats of daring.  This is the appeal of Scott and his men and why this is such an interesting story.	2001-11-08
US	53014416	R1KHXR8VX4UPG8	0671315277	593969307	Japanese: 2nd Ed. Rev. (Pimsleur Language Program)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A great approach to beginning Japanese	I found these tapes very helpful in preparing for a trip to Japan. They were a good supplement to basic lessons since listening and repeating is the way we all learn language. I also liked the practice in being able to understand Japanese enough to formulate an answer. The tape gives you the opportunity to speak Japanese in response to conversation, yet still repeating the correct words and intonation.  The price was great too. The only drawback was the somewhat limited selection of phrases used. I learned them well but got tired of asking and responding to &quot;do you want to eat something ?&quot; <br />This is worth doing if you dont have a lot of time and need some survival Japanese.	2001-07-27
US	53014416	R2264P94OOAGTJ	0694524379	822422067	Prodigal Summer	Books	5	4	5	N	N	15 hours of pure pleasure	I was given this book as a get well gift and it did its job in lifting my spirits. This is my first book by Barbara Kingsolver and I truly enjoyed following the three different stories of Appalachia: &quot;predator&quot;--tells the story of a woman forest ranger who lives alone but is touched by love one summer, moth love--of a &quot;bug scientist&quot; who experiences loss but finds unexpectedly a new life and &quot;old chestnuts&quot; of an 80 year old crotchedy old man dedicated to a solitary life growing a blight free chestnut tree. I hesitate to write more detail on these stories for fear of spoiling them for you. All stories start independently but happen in the same valley and eventually do touch each other. The prose was gorgeous and it really made me think about how connected we are to one another in a big ecosystem and the tragic consequences of upsetting nature's balance.  Save this as a treat for yourself.  The audio version will make a long car trip or a daily commute a real pleasure	2001-07-21
US	53014416	R11C006AQCLAAO	0553801279	337342267	A Traitor to Memory	Books	1	7	9	N	Y	Give this one a pass!!!	As an avid fan of Elizabeth George's Inspector Lynley series (see my June 10, 2000 review of &quot;In Pursuit of Proper Sinner&quot;), I pre-ordered the 11th entry of the series and waited anxiously for it to arrive. It is a terrible disappointment--it is very long with a tedious plot--with much first person dialogue of the main character in a journal for his psychiatrist. There is very little new with my favorites--Barbara Havers and Inspector Lynley--and it is the development of these characters that have made the series so successful. There were no other interesting or likable characters in the story to keep your interest. The ending is so unsatisfying I forgot I finished it and thought there was more.<br />If you liked George's earlier novels, you won't miss anything if you skip this one. I hope her future novels return to her winning formula of character development and tight plots.	2001-07-18
US	53014416	R140GDLJG9N5ZJ	0380975017	158033193	Devil's Claw (Joanna Brady Mysteries, Book 8)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Sheriff Joanna Brady at her best!	At the beginning of the book, the eighth installment of the Sheriff Joanna  Brady series, Joanna, a card-carrying member of the &quot;women who do too  much&quot; club, is balancing her job, motherhood while preparing for her  upcoming marriage to Butch Dixon. But she is thrown for a loop when her  much loved neighbor and handyman, Clayton, is found dead and an Indian girl  is missing and a suspect in the murder of her mother, recently released  from prison. Meanwhile Joanna's personal life is in an uproar with a mother  who is micromanaging her wedding, new inlaws-to-be who seem more impossible  than her mother and her 12 year-old daughter who vacillates between wanting  to be treated like an adult and thinking she will be forgotten after the  marriage. Clayton's daughter, Reba, arrives for the funeral accusing Joanna  of murdering her father after she learns Joanna is to inherit Clayton's  ranch. Reba extracts a very personal revenge against Joanna. <br />Joanna  becomes much more human in her reaction to these adversities, abandoning  her superwoman mantle. She comes to terms with what is really important for  her while providing a very entertaining and engaging story. You care what  happens to these characters who are so real it seems you know them. I  highly recommend this book and am looking forward to the next installment  in what may be my favorite mystery series.	2000-08-10
US	53014416	R2WEB3PK6OLZOH	0684823438	526098515	Rock, Paper, Scissors	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	An engaging tale of political intrigue; a great first novel	Sarah Peterson, a rising star in the Secret Service, is tapped by the President to head up the Office of Diplomatic Security, to protect the Secretary of State. Intelligence reports uncovered terrorist threats and Sarah takes on her job in earnest, despite the Secretary's displeasure at her selection. Sarah inadvertently uncovers a plot to kidnap the daughter of a wealthy businessman and this begins a complex tale of political intrigue and suspense that involves Middle East politics, terrorism, murder for hire, blackmail and conspiracy. Characters here are well drawn and engaging. I particularly enjoyed a technology twist that was the key to finding the location where the kidnapped girl was held. I very much enjoyed this book and hope to see Sarah and other characters, like Hank Savage and Sam Baldwin, in future novels.	2000-08-06
US	53014416	R2V25Y98YU8DX4	0553574582	517089145	With Child	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Tightly plotted thriller	This book is the third in a series featuring Kate Martinelli--a homicide  detective in San Francisco. When Kate's lover, Lee, goes off to the Pacific  Northwest to recover from serious injuries, Kate feels sorry for herself  until she befriends Jules, a friend's daughter. She becomes involved in  many searches for children---at the job, helping find Jules' homeless  friend, Dio, and finally when Jules herself disappears while on a trip with  Kate.  This is a hard book to put down, particularly with the plot twists,  including the possibility that Jules could have been kidnapped by a  notorius serial killer. I enjoyed it but was somewhat disappointed by the  unresolved issues between Kate and Lee at the end of the book. But then  this is an incentive to read the next installment.	2000-08-05
US	53014416	R1AMTS6DXI2JFF	0393050327	637283524	The Perfect Storm: A True Story of Men Against the Sea	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not a beach book, but worth it	A meteorologist in my organization recommended this book and this should have tipped me off that this was not a beach book. This story of a  real life event, in which the ship Andrea Gail and other ships get caught in the  &quot;storm of the century&quot; is a detailed, serious read. You should  not try to read this in snatches, a few pages at a time or you will be  lost. It is worth it to read several chapters at a time to learn about the  hard life of swordfisherman by stepping into the shoes of the 6 men on the  Andrea Gail.  I recommend that if you are not interested in all the detail  provided by the author, that you at least skim to capture the flavor of  this way of life and feel what they must have experienced during that last,  fatal cruise.	2000-07-25
US	53014416	R3C6J5VC7KABQH	0425174085	608075111	Mariner's Compass (Benni Harper Mystery)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Benni is an engaging sleuth; don't miss this book	I thoroughly enjoyed Mariner's Compass, the first book I have read in this series. Benni Harper is a great heroine, self determined, smart and still caring of the people around her. The plot was very well done; I enjoyed trying to figure out with Benni why Jacob Chandler, someone she never met, bequeathed his house to her. As a condition of the will, she had to live in the house and follow the clues he set out for her. As he planned, she did learn about him and his life, with some intrigue and danger built in. The characters were great--I loved her sassy grandma who led a sit in at a local museum and her handsome hispanic sheriff husband. I do care about these characters and Benni and I will read more of this series.	2000-07-23
US	53014416	R31DSZYKHQ2U66	0425174123	202962703	Hard Evidence (Cat Marsala)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Interesting subject but characters need more &quot;life&quot;	There were lots of things that interested me about this book--reading about the gourmet food industry, what it must be like catering to the rich and famous etc. But I did not come away from this book caring about any of  the main characters--Cat Marala, the heroine, her boyfriend doctor Sam, her  coworkers etc. The only one that came off believable was the italian  co-owner Angelotti--you could feel his pain as news of the human bones  found in the soupbones closed down the business. I enjoyed  &quot;listening&quot; to the woman in the store lecture on the uses of  olive oil and the details of how precise and prepared you need to be to be  a top notch caterer. Maybe this wasnt her best book, I may try again....	2000-07-23
US	53014416	R1MIBVQPX3D5O0	0553102354	762287509	In Pursuit of the Proper Sinner	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Another Winner in the Inspector Lynley series	I will admit being a fan of Inspector Lynley and Sargent Barbara Havers, because Elizabeth George makes the reader care about them.  In this book, Havers is still in disgrace with Lynley after what he thinks was  unprofessional behavior in &quot;Deception on his Mind&quot;. Lynley, just  back from his honeymoon, becomes personally involved in a grisly double  murder on the moors of England. In a reversal of character, it is Barbara  Havers who shows the usually professionally cool Lynley the keys to the  puzzle. Lynley realizes that policework needs humanity as well as forensics  and we see him as more human and less &quot;lordly&quot;.  For those who  follow this detecting pair this is a good and personally revealing addition  to the series.	2000-06-11
US	53014416	R2YJVIG6VGT6CV	0446525774	194746957	Saving Faith	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Too bad--I wanted to like this book	Do you ever &quot;save&quot; a book to savor at a special time? I met the author and chatted with him while he autographed my book. I love political thrillers and I live in DC and so was prepared to really like this book  which I saved for Christmas week. Sadly I was not gripped by suspense and  could not feel for any of the characters. I really did not care if Faith  was saved.  Too much chasing, little left to the imagination. Kind of like  a &quot;Murder she wrote&quot; episode	2000-06-11
US	53014416	R69TJ2JUA7N16	0553110934	237994876	O Jerusalem	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	A fascinating mix of history and suspense	Laurie King captivated me in the first four books of her Mary Russell/Sherlock Holmes mystery. I thought the fifth would follow chronologically. It does not--taking a Star Warsesque type turn with fitting in between the first two books-- Beekeepers Apprentice and Monstrous Regiment. While Mary always tells the story in this series, this story is truly hers--in her &quot;homeland&quot; the focus of her Talmudic studies Mary is forced to don men's arabic garb and live as a nomad while she and Sherlock travel to solve the mystery of who is working to undermine the British occupation force. I felt the hard ground under me and tasted the unleaved bread and bitter coffee with Mary as she made her journey. Sherlock is here and has a role too, pushing Mary to speak Arabic (which he does fluently) and taking on various disguises and roles to better ferret out information. If you like a good story, with an interesting historical background, this is your book.	2000-06-11
