US	53016938	R32XREXE38AH3F	025207081X	155646347	The World's Columbian Exposition: The Chicago World's Fair of 1893	Books	4	80	80	N	Y	very interesting	I found this book quite fascinating.  I have been reading Erik Larson's wonderful \\"The Devil in the White City\\" but since that comes with virtually no illustrations, I bought this book primarily for the photographs, of which it has a great many and which go a long way to conveying just how huge this fair was (there were 735,000+ visitors on the day that had the highest attendance rate).<br /><br />It also fills in information Larson's book lacks about the exhibits themselves, the individual state and country buildings and the Midway as well as statistics on how much food was served every day and how many bathrooms were available plus it shows pictures of the moving sidewalk that took visitors who arrived by boat to the fair itself; the Xerxes telescope; many displays and decorations made out of corn and oranges; the foreigners who were part of the Midway attractions; the Wooded Island; the first automated paint sprayer (with which a crew of three was able to paint the interior of the entire Manufacturers and Liberal Arts Building in only six weeks); a lifesize statue of a wooly mammoth, then thought to have been the largest animal to have ever walked the earth; and several pictures of the Ferris Wheel under construction.  It also has a table showing what attractions were available and how much they cost and one indicating which architect designed which building (something Larson's readers will appreciate).<br /><br />The only real problem I had with the book (and the reason for four stars instead of five) is that it's printed on regular paper stock and not on glossy paper so the photographs are somewhat blurry and grainy and not as crisp as they would have been had the publisher used different paper.  Also the book provides a copy of the map of the fairgrounds given by Montgomery Ward to it's customers but this map is too small plus it's printed so that part of it lies in the book's center crease.  I think it would have been better if the publisher had had a map drawn and used that or had found one that provided more information.  There is a three dimensional map of the Exposition available on the Web -- it would have been nice if something like that had been included as well since it's impossible to get a comprehensive, birdseye view of the Fair (nevermind one in relation to Chicago and the surrounding community) from just the photographs.  There is also a bibliography and a somewhat incomplete index. I don't know how this book compares to other pictorial books on the Exposition but it was fine for what I needed and had lots of bits of interesting trivia besides.or had found one that provided more information.    There is a three dimensional map of the Exposition available on the Web -- it would have been nice if something like that had been included as well since it's impossible to get a comprehensive, birdseye view of the Fair (nevermind one in relation to Chicago and the surrounding community) from just the photographs.  There is also a bibliography and a somewhat incomplete index. I don't know how this book compares to other pictorial books on the Exposition but it was fine for what I needed and had lots of bits of interesting trivia besides.	2005-06-21
US	53016938	RZZUJCN0AJODS	0895263998	748516657	Inventing the AIDS Virus	Books	1	35	87	N	N	troubling	The first thing I noticed about this is book is that it is published by Regnery, the largest ultra-conservative publisher in the country which made me wonder why Doctor Duesberg was unable to find a reputable publisher of medical and scientific books to publish it.  This is very odd, very strange.  I am further troubled by the fact that the book doesn't appear to have been subjected to peer-review, the process that governs all reputable scientific research whereby other scientists in the field review the research and then attempt to duplicate the author's findings.  Without documented peer review, the information in this book is, at best, suspect and, at worst, fraudulent.  I also have trouble believing that NIH was so desperately in need of funding that it created a Big Lie that it then sold not only to the public and their doctors, but to the rest of worldwide academic and scientific community.  Frankly, I think it is Doctor Duesberg who is in need of funding. <br /> <br />There is clear and overwhelming evidence that many millions of people with HIV go onto develop AIDS, the effects of which eventually kill most of them.  It is also true that we now know that a very small minority of people with untreated HIV and with AIDS never develop full blown symptoms.  But to tell people with HIV/AIDS to ignore their doctors, to refrain from drug therapies and to encourage them to behave as if there is nothing wrong with their bodies is reprehensible. There are undoubtedly bits of truth in this book but the overall premise is unsupportable.   <br /> <br />With every virus that attacks humans there are some who are immune to it.  For example, nearly everyone living today has immunity to bubonic plague because most of us are descended from people who either didn't get sick when the plague was making the rounds (that would be the 14th-15th centuries for most of us) or who got sick but whose immune systems were able to fight off the disease.  So pointing out that there are people who have been exposed to HIV or AIDS who didn't get sick is interesting only for what it says about the uniqueness of their immune systems.  Remember, we have been studying this disease for only 25 years -- there are many things about it we don't know yet.  Doctor Duesberg seems to look at the unknowns and the occasional red herrings and various mistakes and determine from them his theory that the scientific community must be wrong about the whole issue.  The real danger of HIV/AIDS is that it will, because it is so widely prelevant, mutate into a virus that becomes air-born or that kills within a few days.  I can't help but think that Doctor Duesberg's proclamation that this HIV/AIDS thing is just a tempest in a teapot contrived by no-good scheming doctors, will result in more people pushing themselves into denial about the disease which will just increase the number of people who get it. <br /> <br />I'm not really interested in Doctor Dusenberg's excuses for why he can't or won't infect himself with the virus but I am curious if the people here who so whole-heartedly support him would be willing to infect themselves, you know, just to prove him right.  Be honest.	2005-06-02
US	53016938	R1174JPPXLGX66	1885061749	759543047	Birds of Illinois Field Guide	Books	5	28	30	N	N	great!	Like the other reviewer here, I too, am new to birdwatching.  I bought two other large guidebooks that cover the eastern part of the country but while these (especially the Smithsonian Handbooks &quot;Birds of America&quot;) were great for providing information on all birds in my half of the country, I didn't find them very useful for determing what birds actually live here in northern Illinois specifically.  Knowing what is supposed to be here has made it much much easier for me to identify the birds that come to my backyard feeders so I'm not hot on the trail of what I think is a White-Crested Firecracker Wheat Wren when, in fact, it's really a Black-Capped Chickadee.<br />I also found the information on what each type of bird eats quite useful as well as the &quot;Stan's Notes&quot; information at the bottom of each entry.  Another thing I found very helpful is the fact that where male and female birds differ in appearance, each is listed separately.  For example, the female Purple Finch is is listed on pages 84-85 in the &quot;brown&quot; section while the male is found at pages 228-229 in the &quot;red&quot; section, thus making it much easier to determine whether what you are looking at is a sparrow of some sort or, in fact, a female Rose-Breasted Grossbeak.	2004-01-08
US	53016938	R30DW7WKRZ7XXA	0871318741	370764269	Down the Common: A Year in the Life of a Medieval Woman	Books	2	15	29	N	Y	okay	It says on the back cover that this book takes place in the \\"World of Medieval England\\" so I don't think it's fair to criticize someone for thinking it might actually have something to do with that period.  I myself had difficulty figuring out at what point in Medieval England (1066 through the War of the Roses in 1485) the book takes place because the people Ann Baer describe here seem to be living about 500-1000 years earlier, in the \\"World of Dark Ages England.\\"      Contrary to what another reviewer wrote, we have a wealth of information about the English Medieval period.  There are contemporary letters and diaries; household records; religious texts and decrees; legal documents; paintings, music, poetry and folklore.  We know about their clothing; machinery and buildings; harvests and other food sources; and medical procedures and herbology.  Yes, Medieval life was difficult and many people were sick or injured and died early but it wasn't as bleak or isolated as Baer describes it here.  There should have been local fairs and markets (some with traveling minstrels and actors) they could attend with people from nearby villages as well as periodic visits from other itinerant merchants, craftsmen, monks traveling the countryside and even the occasional scribe.  People worked six days a week but they also took off for numerous saints days.  I'm not surprised that Marion didn't know who the king was -- during this time feudal lords and barons were far more powerful than any king -- but I was surprised at how little she knew, or cared, about the outside world.    I loved Alice, Dame Margaret and Marion's brother's family but I really began to lose patience with Marion herself along about November.  I know she has a very hard life but she seems to lack any intellectual curiosity or creativity, she does everything by rote.  I am sure there were people like Marion but she just seemed so much more interesting in the first part of the book.    -----------------------    Follow-up:    No one here knows for sure what period or where in Britain this book takes place since the author neglected to specify this.  Marion may not have known where she was in relation to the rest of Britain, but Ann Baer certainly did and I think she should have indicated this as well as in what time period Marion lived.  I looked at the clues Baer gives and came up with the 9th or 10th century.   Other people may disagree.    As for the names:  Peter, Marion (Mary) and Simon are found in the New Testament and would have been in use in England as soon as Catholicism arrived in the late 6th century.  Marjorey (from Margaret), Kate (from Katherine) and Ellen (from Helen) are of Greek origin and either came with the Romans or with the early Christians as well.  Hugh and Nolly (a diminutive of Oliver) are German names and came from the Germanic tribes that invaded after Rome withdrew from Britain early in the 5th century.    Alice (a derivative of Adelaide) is definitely a Norman name, however.  I wondered about this when I read the book since it seems out of place with the rest of the story.  In any case, to use this one name to place the book in the 14th century as the anonymous reader from Wisconsin does is problematic because if Marion and her family lived in such an extremely rural and backward part of England that they were almost entirely cut off from the rest of the country, then how did they know the name Alice even existed?  Marion and Peter would have named their children after the names common in their community, names that were familiar to them -- not those in use in parts of the country they had no idea even existed.     Something else that has occured to me is that Marion's village may not have had the reason or wherewithal to contact the rest of the world more often than once a year but that doesn't preclude the rest of the world being able to contact her community.  I think the fact they are not visited throughout the year on a regular basis by traders, iterant craftsmen, clergy etc, reinforces my theory that the book takes place in the 9th or 10th century.    As for the term \\"medieval\\": the early medieval period in Britain is more commonly known as the Dark Ages, ie, the six centuries following the end of the Roman occupation through the Germanic invasion and the Viking raids that occured in the 8th-10th centuries. For most people the term \\"medieval\\" refers to the period from the Norman invasion in 1066 through the War of the Roses in 1485 (after which the Tudor Age begins).    I am surprised at how vehement some people are in disagreeing with me on the character and personality of Marion.  I liked her at the beginning of the book, I found her boring towards the end.  It's just my opinion, it doesn't detract from the wonder and empathy she excites in other readers who apparently saw something more in what for me became a cardboard character, especially when compared to the charming Alice, Dame Margaret and Marion's brother and his family whom I found a thousand times more interesting and about whom I wish the book had been written.    ----------------------    A much better book on the general period is \\"The Year 1000: What Life Was Like at the Turn of the First Millennium: An Englishman's World\\" by Robert Lacey and Danny Danzinger.  This book is based on more scholarly research and is very readable and interesting.  It also follows a calender year but focuses on numerous people from  the ruling class to peasants to the local monastery.	2003-09-08
US	53016938	RCJ6GJVC0ALR8	0609608819	338989104	Amaryllis	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	Splendid Beauty!	What a terrific book!  It's so much more than the gorgeous photographs for which the author is well-known -- it has lots of information on cultivation and propagation plus there is a glossary with pictures of 96 different hybrids complete with growing information (type, height/flower size and time from planting until flowering).  The author also includes a history of the cultivation of amaryllis which is very interesting -- she documents descriptions and instructions for growing beginning with Milton in 1637 through the Victorian and Edwardian periods to today. She describes the three main sources of bulbs (African, Dutch and South American) and discusses both older varieties and newer cultivars including the miniatures and those with double flowers.<br />Amaryllis come in a large variety of patterns within a color range consisting of red, white, pink and, more recently, peach, pale green, yellow and orange.  Ockenga provides beautiful, lyrical descriptions: &quot;'Cinderella' boasts kitten whiskers drawn on an upturned face, 'Charisma' is speckled with cranberry dots that fade to a creamy background, while 'Elvas' and 'Allure' seem splashed with the juice of sweet cherries.&quot;<br />The book concludes with a list of suppliers (with web addresses) and an extensive bibliography.  This is a great book for anyone interested in growing amaryllis, particularily given that there is nothing else like it on the market today.  Note, however, that Ockenga grows her amaryllis in pots in her greenhouse in New York; she includes information on growing amaryllis in the ground but the bulk of the growing information is with regard to pot-grown bulbs.  Much of this is generic to both kinds of cultivation, however, as is the information on pests and diseases, feeding and watering schedules, etc.  This is, quite simply, a wonderful book.	2002-09-24
US	53016938	R1QYB5M5D3FBEJ	0380724960	404210931	Shaman Sings, The (Shaman Mysteries)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	very good first mystery	I really enjoyed this book on several levels -- the ending was a real surprise, the story is well-told and superbly plotted, most of the characters are believable and, in many cases, interesting and likable. I grew up northwestern New Mexico and found his descriptions of that area of the country very accurate. I especially liked the shaman, Daisy Perika, and her dreams and visions. The things I didn't like about the book are minor and deal mainly with the author's descriptions of the people at the college -- when is the last time you saw a female graduate student doing physics research in high heels and clip earrings? Or professors that were actively hostile to the police just on general principle? It also seemed to me that Doss plays to stereotypes unnecessarily -- the racist banter between the police and their prime suspect being the worst example. Doss leaves a few loose ends, I don't want to give anything away, but I finished the book wondering what exactly happened to two minor characters as well as what was the significance of Daisy's visions (not the dream, which was beautifully woven into the story, but the visions of the brujas y brujos at Chimney Rock). Oh, and I loved the joke about Sitting Bull and the Hunkpapa Sioux.	2002-06-20
US	53016938	R2APP1EQM7CEIH	0762409487	392730696	The Writer's Block: 786 Ideas to Jump-Start Your Imagination	Books	5	3	3	N	N	wow!	... I'm really impressed with this book and it's imaginative approach to writing.  Granted you can page through it or skip around but the way I've been using it is to do a page a day -- most days it gives you a particular writing exercise but the other entries are passages about other writers and how they have gone about writing, collecting ideas and, of course, dealing with writer's block.  I was very intrigued with the entry about F. Scott Fitzgerald and his collection of idea notebooks, later collected and edited by Edmund Wilson and published as \\"The Crack-Up\\" -- I plan to order this too.	2002-06-20
US	53016938	R22FR1RGQU4JVM	1560442999	451336745	Tallgrass Prairie Wildflowers (Wildflower Series)	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	&quot;the iridescent glow was beautiful and wondrous&quot;	I really like the fact that this book is laid out according to flower color, it makes it so much easier to find the plant I'm trying to identify.  I also liked the clear, beautiful photographs as well as the detailed text that provides common and Latin names, family, description and habitat or range for each plant.  The book seems very complete with 295 species listed, but I was surprised to find that Queen Anne's Lace isn't in it, which, although it may not be native, is certainly ubiquitious here in the tallgrass prairie where I live.<br />There is a ten-page chapter on how to use the book, a sort of Botany 101, which is very helpful in explaining how to identify prairie plants via what the author calls their &quot;diagnostic features&quot; -- leaves, flowers, overall shape, scent and, in some cases, the sap. The book's cover is sturdy and water-resistant which is nice if you need to set it down on the ground while you take pictures.  Also included is a very useful directory of many of America's remaining tallgrass prairie preserves and parks with descriptions plus phone numbers of the government agencies, universities and organizations that oversee them (I was pleasantly surprised at how many times The Nature Conservancy is listed). The book ends with a short bibliography and a very complete index.<br />I bought this book as a companion to &quot;Birding Illinois,&quot; by Sheryl De Vore (from the same publisher).  De Vore's book covers various Illinois parks and wildlife areas, many of which are prairies and woodlands.  I figure I can take both books and look for birds as well as beautiful prairie flowers.	2002-03-26
US	53016938	R1V6729QMLBTJD	0395884926	39315807	Taylor's Weekend Gardening Guide to Fragrant Gardens: How to Select and Make the Most of Scented Flowers and Leaves (Taylor's Weekend Gardening Guides)	Books	4	23	23	N	Y	lovely pictures	The photographs in this book are gorgeous and the text is interesting, informative and inspiring.  Rather than leaping right into a description of flowering plants, however, the author begins with a chapter on smell itself, discussing it's importance, the fragrances that were popular in the Victorian era and those that are sought after today.  The plants themselves are divided by type: annuals (which, for some reason, is where he puts scented geraniums); perennials; roses; bulbs, corms and tubers; shrubs and vines; water gardens; night gardens; and scented houseplants.  Each chapter describes a large variety of plants and explains where and how to grow them. Also included is a design map for planting a border of annuals; a brief section on the diseases and pests that attack roses; a short chapter on general garden maintenance; and a complete index (but no list of suppliers).<br />The author has an easy to read, rambling writing style.  He tells stories, gives personal reflections, supplies quotes from litereature and horticultural writings, and clearly know his subject.  If you are looking for a general book on fragrant gardens, then you'll probably like this one a great deal.  But if you're looking for more of a guide to scented plants, which ones to grow where, in a concise format, then this isn't the book for you.  The author does supply light/water/soil requirements and hardiness zones for the plants in the book, but it's included in the text, it isn't in an easy-to-find table which means that you have to read through the entire thing in order to find appropriate plants for your garden.<br />This book is so pretty and fun to read that it would make a nice present for someone who likes to read gardening literature but it really isn't for the person who, like myself, was looking for quick reference guide to the types of scented plants for zone 5 that grow in full sun and under dense trees.	2002-03-26
US	53016938	R1TFN086H91SYJ	0895949113	912482619	Pocket Guide to Hatha Yoga (The Crossing Press Pocket Series)	Books	3	2	5	N	Y	not as complete as I had hoped	I took yoga classes years ago and now, having decided to start the exercises again, I wanted a book that would skip the spiritual side in favor of the physical -- how to start a session, which exercises combinations to do and how to do them. Unfortunately for me, however, this is a very holistic guide to hatha yoga, from meditation to breathing to exercise and diet. If this is what you're looking for, then you'll probably like this book a lot, although it is a \\"pocket guide,\\" not a comprehensive overview, and maybe not be the best book for a novice.	2002-03-22
US	53016938	R2M2NT51U9T177	1552094642	95158435	Geraniums and Pelargoniums	Books	4	17	17	N	Y	great basic overview	Both geraniums and pelargoniums belong to the family \\"Geraniaceae,\\" of which there are 750 species (and thousands of cultivars) scattered over most of the world. Geraniums are the hardy plants that grow in the wild. Pelargoniums, however, are the plants most of us think of when we think \\"geranium\\" -- the colorful flowering houseplants on our windowsills and the lovely scented varieties growing in our kitchens.<br />The book begins with the characteristics of geraniums. Often called \\"Cranesbills,\\" geraniums are hardy perennials (zones 4-8) found in mountainous areas, meadows, marshes and near woodlands. Their flowers have five petals, are symmetrical and are relatively small; their foliage varies by shape and color. Size ranges from the taller Meadow and Dusky Cranesbills to the shorter Sanguineums and Wood Geraniums. They make superb ground cover plants with many types able to grow in full sun as well partial shade; they propagate by seed and can become invasive.<br />Most pelargoniums, on the other hand, are from South Africa and have been cultivated since the 17th century, initially as garden flowers and later as house or conservatory plants. All pelargoniums have a recognizable scent, they have tiny hairs on their stems, their flowers are asymmetrical, they can be propagated by cuttings and most are not cold-hardy and will not survive winters above zone 9.<br />While there is an abundance of information about geraniums in this book, the main emphasis is on the pelargoniums. There are a seven basic forms: Ivies (sprawling habit with ivy-shaped leaves); Scented types (which can either be upright or trailing); Zonals (named for the bands or \\"zones\\" of color on their leaves); Highfields (compact plants with lush flower clusters); Stellars, Startels and Cacti (with star-shaped petals); Regals (beautiful, showy plants with large flowers); and Butes (Single and Double Dwarfs, Miniatures, Micro-Miniatures, Angels and Deacons). Angels are miniatures with Regal-type flowers; Deacons are miniatures crossed with Ivies.<br />Also included are very short chapters on cultivation, propagation, dealing with pests (although nothing about the mealy bugs that plagued my plants last summer) and treating diseases. A list of 175 species and cultivars is provided with Latin and common names along with a very complete index and a list of world-wide suppliers (with web.addresses!)<br />This is definitely the book to buy if you want to know more about the various types of geraniums and pelargoniums but it is not a how-to book on cultivation nor is it an indepth guide to all geraniums and pelargoniums. It is beautifully illustrated, however, and I learned a great deal about these wonderful plants from reading this book. My favorite pelargoniums are the scented varieties and I was a bit disappointed that there wasn't more information about them and only a short list of 19 different types (there are well over 200 varieties). I had never heard of the enchanting Rosebuds, Stellars and Deacons before reading this book, however, which more than made up for this.ers; Deacons are miniatures crossed with Ivies. <br />Also included are very short chapters on cultivation, propagation, dealing with pests (although nothing about the mealy bugs that plagued my plants last summer) and treating diseases. A list of 175 species and cultivars is provided with Latin and common names along with a very complete index and a list of world-wide suppliers (with web.addresses!)<br />This is definitely the book to buy if you want to know more about the various types of geraniums and pelargoniums but it is not a how-to book on cultivation nor is it an indepth guide to all geraniums and pelargoniums. It is beautifully illustrated, however, and I learned a great deal about these wonderful plants from reading this book. My favorite pelargoniums are the scented varieties and I was a bit disappointed that there wasn't more information about them and only a short list of 19 different types (there are well over 200 varieties). I had never heard of the enchanting Rosebuds, Stellars and Deacons before reading this book, however, which more than made up for this.	2002-03-12
US	53016938	R68D7Y7OF2RG1	1583220291	423031635	It's the Media, Stupid	Books	4	17	21	N	N	compelling analysis	This indepth analysis should put an end to the myth of liberal bias in the media. As the Left has been saying for years, the media is only as liberal as the conservative corporations that own them. We seem to be tumbling towards a world in which everything is owned by a relatively few number of conjoined companies whose activities are reported on by a handful of aqenda-driven media giants all bent on diseminating a particular view of predigested news aimed at the lowest common denominator. There has to be another way although, like a previous reviewer, I'm not sure all the solutions in this book will work. I would also like to point out that 90% of National Public Radio's funding comes from donations made by listeners and from corporate underwriting. Only 10% of the NPR budget comes from the federal and state governments and all of that is in the form of grants used for specific programs (science, history, music, literature, etc).	2002-03-09
US	53016938	R1Z6SCVL1LTTH5	0764107275	828667463	Hand-Raising the Orphaned Kitten	Books	3	55	56	N	Y	Mostly good guide	I have hand-raised over 100 orphaned kittens over the last seven years for the humane society where I volunteer, and am the former manager of it's temporary home care program where we care for an average of 300 orphaned kittens every year.  I like some parts of this book very much but I can only recommend it with reservation. Especially good is the information on: 1) bedding materials (I liked her admonition that you want to keep the kittens warm, \\"not cook them\\"); 2) how to feed kittens from a bottle; 3) commercial and home-made milk substitutes; 4) kitten illnesses and disorders; 5) early spay-neuter of young kittens; 6) zoonosis (ie, the diseases and parasites cats and humans can transmit to each other); and 7) the terrible problem of cat overpopulation that exists today.<br />The parts I find troubling begin with the author's suggestion that someone with orphaned kittens first attempt to find a mother cat to care for them. Dr Papurt is concerned about diseases or parasites the stepmother might pass to the kittens but doesn't mention the fact that you may be putting the mom cat at risk for contamination by the kittens, especially if you found or were given the kittens and don't know anything about their medical history.  I speak from experience -- after several success stories of adding orphans to the litters of other mother cats, I gave three orphans to a four year-old mom with one kitten of her own.  We knew the history of the mother cat -- she had been an inside cat, she and her kitten had been given up for adoption after their owner died. But we knew nothing about the orphaned kittens who had been found on a farm.  Within two weeks, all of the animals were dead of feline panleukopenia, spread from the orphans to the mom cat and her kitten.<br />The biggest problem I have with the book, however, is Dr Papurt's suggestion that kittens be separated from the time they are born until they are weaned six or seven weeks later.  Her reasoning for this is that unlessthey are kept isolated from one another, infant kittens will chew or suck on each other's ears, tails, paws or genitals.  In my experience, not only is this reaction very rare, but of the nine or ten cases I've seen of this behavior, all but two were directly attributable to the kittens being underfed (the isolated cases were two \\"neurotic\\" kittens that continued this behavior through the time they were adopted at the age of four months).  I think baby kittens need to be together, they keep each other warm and they enhance each other's sense of safety and well-being.  A kitten that feels isolated or abandoned will rapidly become unhappy and agitated, crying loudly for it's mother. Furthermore, older kittens must have contact with their littermates in order to become properly socialized with other cats plus they need to play with each other in order to develop motor skills.<br />I also found Dr Papurt's suggestion that you can mark the kittens with \\"ink, paint or nail polish\\" or cut their hair in various patterns after they are weaned and put with their siblings in order to tell them apart to be just plain bizarre.  It can be difficult to tell infant all-black or all-white kittens apart but after a few weeks, differences in size, demeanor and face are usually apparent, as is the sex of the kitten.  (...)	2002-01-04
US	53016938	R1LL8GFAJ65YOO	0395911761	564418180	A Field Guide to the Birds: A Completely New Guide to All the Birds of Eastern and Central North America (Peterson Field Guides(R))	Books	5	23	23	N	N	the best I looked at	I looked at nine or ten bird books over the weekend before finally deciding on this one. I like it's compact size, durable cover and it's very complete index. The most important reason for my decision, however, is the fact that it shows pictures of both male and female birds where the female bird's plummage and head differ from that of the male. None of the other books I checked showed female birds or only showed them in very rare instances. I also like this book because it shows most birds in both standing or swimming positions and also in flight. There are also occasional drawings of chicks.<br />The text that accompanies the pictures is necessarily brief but covers: Latin and common names, description, food, range, migratory pattern, habitat, voice and similar species. Also included is a &quot;Systematic Checklist&quot; so you can keep a &quot;life list&quot; of all the birds you've seen. There is a guide to identifying birds by visual categories (swimmers, birds of prey, waders, perching birds, etc), size, tail and wing patterns. The last part of the book contains maps illustrating each bird's range which makes it easy to compare the habitat of, for example, an Olive-Sided Flycatcher with an Acadian Flycatcher.<br />Obviously this is a guidebook and not the type of book you sit down and read through, but I have found myself reading the entries for the often amusing &quot;voice&quot; sections. Here's the one for the Chestnut-Sided Warbler: &quot;Song, similar to Yellow Warbler's; 'see see see see Miss Beech'er' or 'pleased pleased pleased to meet'cha;' penultimate note accented, last note dropping.&quot; Hey, someone who knows what &quot;penultimate&quot; really means!	2001-12-04
US	53016938	R1Q0YJ8ZJH8G5R	1560446897	234540916	Birding Illinois (Regional Birding Series)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	very useful reference book	I bought this book not so much because I want to go birding, but because it lists over 110 bird refuges, conservation areas, creeks, forest preserves and tall grass praries, many of which I know I have driven by on the highway without realizing that just down a state or county road is natural habitat full of wildlife. Some of the areas covered will be familiar to anyone who has lived in Illinois (Morton Arboretum, Fermi Lab, Jackson Park, Montrose Harbor, Chicago Botanic Garden, Starved Rock State Park) but the others are probably new to most people -- Meredosia Wildlife Refuge, Midewin Tallgrass Prarie, Pecatonica River Forest Preserve, Kickapoo State Park, Mermet Lake, etc.   <br />The entries are divided into regions (northeast, northwest, west-central and southern) with each featuring a map of the area with directions, and a list and description of the birds that live or migrate through there. There are also black &amp; white photographs and beautifully-detailed sketches of birds scattered throughout the text. The entries include walking or driving tours and information about the best time of the year to visit the site as well as general information on the conditions of the area (with instructions on when you need to bring your own water, insect repellant and food), what times of the year it may be closed and whether there are picnic/camping areas.  In some cases the history of the area is given (for example, the fact that Shabbona Lake State Recreation Area and Forest Preserve is named after a Native American chief who lived there with his tribe in the 1830s). Each entry also includes the name of the park district that supervises the area and the nearest town. <br />The book ends with a checklist of birds so you can keep track of the ones you have seen, a list of extinct and endangered birds, the official form for reporting a rare bird, a bibliograpy and a list of federal, state and county contacts with phone numbers and addresses.  This is a terrific referencebook as well as guidebook.  I'm grabbing my binoculars, a picnic lunch, this book and heading out to explore the rest of Illinois!	2001-12-04
US	53016938	R21PUZ3O4VNUAZ	0312278187	303328000	Killer Stuff (Jane Wheel Mysteries, No. 1)	Books	4	11	11	N	Y	I'm off to hunt Bakelite and glass frogs!	This book was very favorably reviewed on our local (Chicago) NPR station which is what prompted me to read it. I liked it a great deal, it's beautifully written, the characters come alive, the mystery is definitely mysterious and all the bits and pieces of pottery and postcards and vases and embroidered tea towels that make up Jane's life are wonderfully detailed. I learned a lot from this book, in particular, how to figure out which garage and estate sales to avoid and which ones might have &quot;killer stuff,&quot; as well as how to organize my searching. <br />I was a bit disappointed with the ending, however. I don't want to give away anything but I found the some of the motives for the various crimes to be rather implausible. They are woven together well and there is a delightful twist at the end of the book, but it just didn't seem realistic. I also think we aren't told enough about Jane's character -- we get all kinds of tantalizing hints into her psyche but having finished the book, I still don't understand why she rejected her husband (or, alternatively, why she was unable to balance her family with her &quot;picking&quot;).<br />That said, I sure hope this is the start of a series of books featuring Jane Wheel, although I'd be more than happy to buy any books Sharon Fiffer writes.	2001-11-30
US	53016938	R1XH8QMA8S9COY	0761507949	663391631	Bread Machine Baking for All Seasons: Delightful Recipes for Year-Round Pleasure	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	terrific book	I am completely new to the world of bread machine baking so, of course, I ran to Amazon and bought several books of recipes.  This book by Connie Merydith is, however, far and away my favorite and the one I turn to the most.  The book is beautifully laid-out with clear, easy-to-read type and nice small illustrations of bread at the bottom of most pages.  The recipes are arranged by season with hearty wheat, nut and spice breads made with molasses, rolled oats and dried fruits for fall and winter, and lighter breads with honey, yogurt, fresh fruit and vegetables for spring and summer.  The author also includes recipes for non-loaf breads such as bagels, breakfast and dinner rolls, pita bread, pizza dough, bread sticks, focaccia, and bread rings.  I used this book to make an assortment of rolls for Thanksgiving last week:  oatmeal-molasses, peppery parmesan, orange spiral, wheat spice and rich dinner rolls (the bread recipes can all be made into rolls -- just stop your bread-maker before it begins to bake).  There are also instructions for making and using a sourdough starter and a very complete index.  If you're only going to buy one bread machine cookbook, then this is the one to get.	2001-11-28
US	53016938	R3B35MTRZSPQNM	0425178951	788292440	Deep South (An Anna Pigeon Novel)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	terrific!	All of Nevada Barr's books are extremely atmospheric (I still feel claustrophobic when I think about the Lechugilla Cave in &quot;Blind Descent&quot;) and &quot;Deep South&quot; is no exception.  Barr's descriptions of April in the southern end of the Natchez Trace are alternately lovely as she describes the spring beauty of the landscape, and cloying as she writes about the pervasive, encompassing growth.  This is a terrific mystery story, expertly told with clues and red herrings woven skillfully throughout the text.  <br />I feel compelled to respond to the previous reviewer who wrote of &quot;slogging&quot; through yet another Anna Pigeon mystery.  Life is too short to slog through books written about characters or by writers you already know you don't like.  Anna does have numerous friends, male and female, but even if she didn't, why does it matter that she has a close friendship with her older sister?  I only wish I was as close with my sister.  And so what if she likes to drink? There are far worse personal habits then a glass or two of wine in the evening.  I have thoroughly enjoyed all of the Nevada Barr books, Anna is an intelligent, tough and compassionate character.  I personally would have picked fellow district ranger Steve Stilwell over Sheriff Paul Davidson, but hey, no one's perfect.  I also liked the peace/piece joke on page 276 as well as the bit where Taco is described as a &quot;tourist.&quot;	2001-06-08
US	53016938	R3GJL141WOC38M	0380728273	196701038	Liberty Falling (Anna Pigeon Mysteries)	Books	4	14	14	N	Y	great mystery!	I have liked and admired Anna Pigeon since I read  Nevada Barr's first book in this series but this is the first time that I really -liked- Anna as a person.   Maybe it's because she's not officially on duty or maybe it's because she's in New York, but the Anna in &quot;Liberty Falling&quot; is much more approachable and  human than she has been in the previous books.<br />The story itself is first-rate with expert plotting and character development.  One of the best things about the last two Anna Pigeon mysteries is that  you really have to pay attention to what's going on -- Barr interweaves very subtle clues throughout the story. The only thing I didn't like about this book was the  endless descriptions of the rides back and forth  between the city and the monument but that's a small thing.  This book is most definitely worth reading.	2001-05-08
US	53016938	R2IEZR5NMEHUCP	1889538183	73467717	Landscaping Indoors	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	Bamboo Garden here I come!	On the design side, this book succeeds very well, there's all kinds of information here about indoor garden design elements and practices including four design plans.  One nice feature of this book is it's emphasis on historical gardening practices, especially those of the Victorians (there's even a list of rare book dealers specializing in botanical history at the end of the book in case you wish to see what your great-great-grandparents were reading).  Included here are terrariums, Wardian cases and water gardening, each with a picture right out of garden books from the 1860's.  The most intriguing entry in this section is &quot;The Epiphyte Tree&quot; -- a branch or log on which you grow epiphytes (plants such as tillandsias, hoyas, certain orchids and bromeliads, that grow on other plants).  <br />I thought the second section of the book (&quot;Plant Specifics&quot;) was  the most interesting.  Here we learn how to create and care for  six specific types of gardens (Palm, Bamboo, Indoor Orangerie, Cacti and Other Succulents, Ficus and Fern). It would never have occurred to me to make an bamboo garden but judging from the pictures, this plant makes a terrific addition to anyone's indoor garden.  Each of these sections has growing requirements plus a list of the best plants for indoors. The last chapter in this section lists other landscape plants including Aralia, Schefflera, Norfolk Island Pine, Dracaena and Cordyline,  Spathiphylum (ie, Peace Lily), Yucca, Podocarpus, Aspidistra, Philodendron and Grape Ivy.<br />The last section has basic cultivation instructions (soil mixes,  pots, fertilizers, watering, light requirements and biological pest control).  The chapter I found most useful was that explaining how foot-candles and wattage are calculated and giving alternative sources of indoor lighting.  This is followed by a bibliography, an extensive list of suppliers (including web addresses!) and the index.  A very interesting and useful book at a very reasonable price.	2001-04-08
US	53016938	RWK50XNQIL5RJ	081181033X	967080329	Easy Orchids (Garden Style Book)	Books	4	41	41	N	N	Mostly Great Book for Beginners	I think the oddest thing that confronts new orchid  owners is learning that, unlike most other types of plants, most orchids  cannot all   be treated the same way.  The various species or varieties  of, for example, ferns and geraniums require the same  general growing conditions but with orchids, each one is different.  The temperature, light and water conditions  that cause one orchid to thrive may actually kill or inhibit the growth of another. <br />This book begins with the general characteristics of orchids (growth patterns, root systems, types of flowers and light, humidity, water and temperature requirements) with the idea of teaching you to think about each orchid you grow in these terms. This is followed with information on pots, potting mixtures, how to water, fertilizers, resting periods, how to propagate  by division and by keikis (plantlets) and how to deal with pests (slugs, snails, rodents and insects).  The  orchids themselves come next, each with a gorgeous photograph, description and detailed  instructions.  The plants are arranged by type:  &quot;Orchids to Grow on a Windowsill,&quot; &quot;Orchids to Grow in Outdoor Containers,&quot;  &quot;Orchids to Grow in the Ground&quot; and &quot;Exotic Orchids (note: &quot;Orchids to Grow in the Ground&quot; lists two species native to  Asia -- there is nothing here about growing native or woodland orchids from North America, unfortunately).  The book ends with  a very brief list of mail order suppliers, an index and a short bibliography.  <br />This book will go a long way towards instilling confidence in someone who isn't quite sure he/she can grow orchids.  The reason I gave it 4 stars instead of 5 was because (as mentioned above) there is no information on North American woodland species (many of which fit the title -- Easy Orchids) and because there is very little information on how to diagnose and treat orchid diseases.  The author's suggestion that you return a sick or dead plant to where you bought it isn't really useful if a year or two have gone by during which your orchid seemed healthy enough but has now developed an unknown malady.  Other than that, it's an excellent book and one that I very much enjoy browsing through as I decide which orchid to buy next.  Did I mention the photographs?  The photographs are wonderful!	2001-04-08
US	53016938	RBYUW5DVW2W9F	0789471442	593526671	AHS Great Plant Guide	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Terrific Book!	I am so glad I found this -- many of the plant books I have looked at recently were published in the early 1990's -- this edition of the Great Plant Guide  has been revised and updated for 2000.  The book begins with the fundamentals, how to shop for and choose healthy plants that are appropriate for your garden, how to prepare the soil for them and then how to plant them. Next are descriptions and growing requirements for 3000 plants, each with a color photograph and a special &quot;cultivation&quot; section.  I was especially impressed with the last section of the book which lists plants by 57 different categories:  flowers for hanging baskets, plants for autumn color, container plants, variegated trees and shrubs, flowers for drying, plants for acidic soil, plants to attract bees and butterflies, plants for coastal gardens, plants with scented foliage, trees for small gardens, etc.  I found this section extremely interesting and useful.<br />There are many houseplants listed here, in particular plants that are grown outdoors in the warmer zones and in containers in the cooler zones, eg, Norfolk Island Pine, but the primary focus of the book is on outdoor plants.  A number of plant &quot;families&quot; receive several pages of discussion such as dahlias, scented geraniums and fuchsias, etc, the largest of which covers roses (ie, floribundas, climbing, hybrid tea, rambling and miniature).<br />I should point out that this is not an expensive coffee table book with large, lavish pictures of beautiful plants. It is, however, chockfull of information -- a very informative book at a  very affordable price.  Amazon says this is a paperback book which isn't quite accurate; the cover is actually composed of two pieces of thin cardboard, the outside of which is glossy -- my point being that it is sturdier than the average 670 page paperback.	2001-03-20
US	53016938	R3EDWOB6XQDW05	0789405652	14980136	101 Essential Tips: House Plants	Books	4	15	15	N	Y	Good Beginner's Guide	This is an great book for beginners plus it's cute and small and easy to read (this book would be especially appropriate for teenagers and older children).  Chapters include: &quot;Choosing Houseplants&quot; including how to match plants to the growing conditions in your home and how to grow bulbs indoors; &quot;Light and Humidity;&quot; &quot;Watering Know-How;&quot; &quot;Feeding Your Plants;&quot; &quot;Pots and Potting On;' &quot;Pruning and Training;&quot; &quot;Propagating Houseplants;&quot; &quot;Tackling Pests and Diseases;&quot; &quot;Favorite Houseplants;&quot; and &quot;Display &amp; Arrangement.&quot; The &quot;Favorite  Houseplants&quot; chapter includes descriptions and growing requirements for 20 easy-to-grow plants including English Ivy, Philodendrons, Rubber Plants, Boston Ferns, African Violets, Cyclamens, Hyacinths, Poinsettias and Geraniums, etc. &quot;Display &amp; Arrangement&quot; has instructions for container plants,  hanging baskets and terrariums.  The only reservation I have about this book is that some of the symbols used to designate humidity and amount to water are a bit confusing; in particular, I had a little trouble telling the difference between the medium drop (&quot;water moderately&quot;) and the small drop (&quot;water sparingly&quot;).	2001-03-15
US	53016938	R3OZDJTA3C3T4	0525463976	604184133	Small Brown Dog's Bad Remembering Day	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	terrific book!	This is a great book.  Small Brown Dog has lost his collar and can't remember his name -- the story follows him as he visits with other dogs who all remember individual things about him (for instance, that he likes to splash in puddles) but can't remember his name either.  The ending is inventive and funny, children and adults will both enjoy this book.  I also loved the illustrations, they convey action and excitement as well as a bit of sweet goofiness.	2001-01-13
US	53016938	R137Z96G1LH0Q7	0764912135	597852694	Neglected Murderesses, 2001 Wall Calender	Books	5	9	11	N	Y	Go, Sarah Jane!	January: Natasha Batti-Loupstein, canape killer 1923<br />February: Angelica Transome who did in her little brother in 1889 <br />March: Miss Elspeth Lipsleigh, successful in 1892<br />April: Mrs Fledaway, a widow in 1903<br />May: Lettice Finding, a shooter in 1934<br />June: Lady Violet Natheless, celebrating Midsummer's Eve 1925<br />July: Miss QP Urkheimer, homicidal bowler circa 1936<br />August: Miss Emily Toastmaster, smotherer 1916<br />September: Madame Galoche, mass murderer in 1911<br />October: Sarah Jane (&quot;Batears&quot;) Olafsen, logger mistress 1907<br />November: Nurse J Rosebeetle, jobless in 1898<br />December: Mrs Daisy Sallow, daughter-in-lawless, 1921<br />Great great calendar!	2000-09-20
US	53016938	R3R2PAPTCZDZF5	0486245470	218346357	Color Source Book of Authentic Art Nouveau Designs: 146 Motifs (Dover Pictorial Archive Series)	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	great sourcebook	Max Benirschke was a graphic artist working in  &quot;Jugendstil&quot; -- the Austrian-German equivalent of the Art Nouveau movement.  This book is a republication of &quot;Buchschmuck und Flachenmuster von Max  Benirschke&quot; (&quot;Book Decoration and Flat Design by Max  Benirschke&quot;) and was originally published by Verlag Martin Gerlach,  Vienna and Leipzig (ca. 1902).  It contains 146 of his designs on 32 pages  and includes everything from small ornaments to frames, borders, decorative  initials, magazine frontpieces and book covers done in an assortment of  realistic and stylized drawings of flowers, vegetables, birds and people  (mostly gargoyles and beautiful women) as well as general geometric shapes.   There are even some examples of &quot;tessellation&quot; -- the geometric  arrangement of repeating patterns made famous by M.C. Escher. <br />This is a  excellent visual sourcebook for artists and craftspeople plus there is also  a brief biography at the end of the book that describes the types of work  Benirschke did and those artists and styles that influenced him.  The  designs would adapt well to graphic arts use (magazine and book covers,  newsletters, menus, calling cards, wrapping paper, stationery, rubber  stamps, greeting cards and posters) as well as to fabric arts (fabric  design, batik and embroidery) and fine arts (painting and woodblock  designs). <br />All of the pictures are done in two colors on white in one of  four color combinations:  burgundy/dark orange; hunter green/light orange;  hunter green/purple; and brown/dark olive-mustard green.  Although intended  as a source for teaching and for inspiration, you could also  laminate  these pictures and use them to make  pins, bookmarks or ornaments (note  however, that the designs are printed on both sides of the page).<br />Should  you buy it?  Well, it's an interesting book and worth getting if you want  to learn about Max Benirschke in particular or Art Nouveau in general or if  you're looking for an alternative to the ubiquitous Mucha.  There are a  number of beautiful designs here that I have seen in other places but had  no idea who had drawn them so it  was nice to finally put the images with  the artist.	2000-06-12
US	53016938	R1UYR1NJT7GK9S	188301056X	771717637	Beadwork Magazine Presents: The Beader's Companion	Books	4	234	235	N	N	basic guidebook for weaving and embroidery techniques	This book is so little and cute and darling, it will happily go with you wherever you go with your beading projects, tucked in a bag if you take your beads to the beach or the park for an afternoon picnic or if you're  traveling and want to work on a project enroute or even if all you plan to  do is sit on the couch and do beading while you watch TV.  It is aimed at  both novice and experienced beaders and, for the most part, includes  precise, detailed instructions and clear drawings for easy stitches that  new beaders will find easy to follow as well as complex weavings that will  definitely challenge those with more experience.<br />The book begins with  descriptions of the various kinds of beads, threads, cords, bead wax and  needles that are currently available.  Especially helpful are the sections  on &quot;Matching Thread to Bead,&quot; &quot;Choosing the Right  Needle&quot; as well as the information on seed bead sizes and types.  Two  chapters on bead weaving come next -- the first covers  off-loom beading  and includes various peyote stiches (even and odd flat stitches, circular  and tubular stitches and the Native American or &quot;gourd&quot; stitch);  the square, ladder, brick and netting stitches; several variations on the  right-angle weave stitch; the herringbone and the daisy chain.  The next  chapter covers loom beading with lessons on how to set up a loom (including  instructions on how to make your own loom) and how to do basic weaving,  adding weft thread, increasing and decreasing beads, etc.<br />The next  section is called &quot;Stringing Beads&quot; and begins with a brief  description of how to make a simple beaded necklace; the instructions that  follow on how to make a knotted bead necklace (with knots between the beads  like a pearl necklace) are much more thorough.<br />The next four chapters  deal with embroidering, knitting, crocheting and doing macrame with beads.  The embroidery section shows how to incorporate beads into  basic crewel  embroidery stitches (back, buttonhole, chain, feather and herringbone)  followed with instructions for the tent stitch used in embroidery work on  canvas (ie, needlepoint and cross-stitch).  Also included are instructions  on how to use a tambour (a hook similar to that used for crocheting that is  used to pull chain stitches and beads through cloth).  Next are sections on  knitting with beads, crocheting with beads and using beads in  macrame.<br />The next chapter is on findings (clasps, crimp beads, knot cups,  connectors, earwires, jump and split rings, end cones and coils, pinbacks,  head and eye pins), which, while thorough insofar that it covers most  findings, does not have the same excellent, detailed instructions and  drawings that characterize the rest of the book.  Using head pins to make  earrings or attaching a crimp bead might seem obvious but  someone who has  never done these things may need more than just a brief written description  on how they are accomplished.  This section would have been so much better  had the authors provided clearer explanations as well as illustrations.  Also helpful would have been instructions on how to make secure bead loops  using head/eye pins.<br />This chapter is followed by a section on wirework  that has information about types of wire as well as tools (pliers, jigs,  mandrells,  mallets, hammers, etc) and basic techniques for making coils,  figure eights, spirals and loops. The final chapters deal with making  simple beaded cords and ropes, how to add fringe (including adding  Victorian chain edging) and making netted fringe.<br />One of the best  things about this book are the instructions on what to do if you make  mistakes.  I also liked the various &quot;hints&quot; that are scattered  through out it as well.<br />Should you buy it?  Well, if what you are  looking for is a book that will teach you how to do basic bead stringing  for a necklace or a bracelet or if you need instructions on how to make  earrings, then you would be better off skipping this and getting a book  like &quot;Exotic Beads&quot; instead.  But if you're looking for the  basics in bead weaving, etc, then this is definitely a good sourcebook for  you.  Be warned, however, it does not contain patterns or instructions for  projects.make  earrings, then you would be better off skipping this and getting a book  like &quot;Exotic Beads&quot; instead.  But if you're looking for the  basics in bead weaving, etc, then this is definitely a good sourcebook for  you.  Be warned, however, it does not contain patterns or instructions for  projects.	2000-05-28
US	53016938	RVC8FV9F5B13W	0943604559	911856938	Simple Lace and Other Beaded Jewelry Patterns	Books	5	24	24	N	Y	what a great book!	I've been wanting to learn how to make bead lace for a long time but never came across a book I thought was worth buying until this one.  The instructions are excellent and the illustrations are large and clear.   Everything is done in simple easy steps which makes it great for children  and for adult novices alike. So far I have made &quot;Julia's Loopy  Necklace,&quot; a bracelet using the lace diamond pattern and the   &quot;Pagoda Earrings&quot; (which actually look like little Christmas  trees).  <br />Patterns and instructions for a wide variety of pretty  necklaces, chokers, earrings, bracelets and rings are included as well as  detailed descriptions of materials plus beautiful photographs of finished  pieces.  This would be a terrific book for grandparents/parents/aunts and  children to get so they can make lovely pieces of jewelery together.	2000-05-28
US	53016938	R1JQCPOWUL6AWH	0965819728	818287207	Turning the Centuries: Calendar 2000 (Historic Fashions Calendars)	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	exquisite	While the primary focus of this calendar is on fashions from 1890-1910, there are a few examples of early 19th century dress plus one lovely embroidered mantua (a loose-fitting gown) from 1700.  The main emphasis of  this calendar is not so much on dress, however, as on the museums from  which the featured items of clothing were selected.  A different museum is  showcased each month along with several items from it's collection.   Information on how to contact each museum is also listed, including web  addresses.   Featured institutions include:  Royal Ontario Museum, Old  Sturbridge Village, Missouri Historical Association, Hillwood Museum and  Gardens, Old State House, DAR Museum, Nevada State Museum and Goldstein  Museum of Design.	1999-12-26
US	53016938	ROAAY3ERVJIEW	0517182661	809641949	A Diary From Dixie	Books	1	89	95	N	N	incomplete version of famous diary	(...)certainly I always thought \\"Diary from Dixie\\" was the real thing but I discovered while reading \\"Mary Chesnut's Civil War\\" (edited by C. Vann Woodward, Yale University 1981) that, in the first place, the material that is exerpted in \\"Diary from Dixie\\" was actually written by Mary Chesnut between 1881-1884, nearly 20 years after the Civil War ended. Secondly, \\"Diary from Dixie\\" (which was published 15 years after Chesnut died) was put together and edited by two other women who were under contract to their publishing company to produce a heavily abridged, selectively-edited volume of about 130,000 words in length (Chesnut's 1880's \\"Diary\\" is more than three times that in length). Woodward maintains that the editors were \\"concerned that Chesnut passages out of line with the current Southern version of the Confederate legend be deleted. Mrs. Witherspoon's death is mentioned, for example, but with no hint that her slaves had anything to do with it.\\"<br />Mary Chesnut is so interesting that it only makes sense to read her work as she intended it to be read and for that you need \\"Mary Chesnut's Civil War.\\" Out-of-print now but also worth reading is \\"The Private Mary Chesnut: the Unpublished Civil War Diaries\\" (Oxford University 1984) which is the actual journal text that Chesnut wrote during the war (and on which she based her 1880's \\"Diary\\"). Note, however, that this book only covers the entries made during 1861 and 1865 (the original journals for 1862, 1863 and 1864 have not survived).	1999-12-12
US	53016938	R1TRFB31J31YM6	0805046208	930894186	Little Bunny on the Move	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	gorgeous, wonderful book!	This is a really terrific book, the drawings are quite wonderful and dreamy -- I'd love to get posters for framing. I like this book so much I ended up keeping the copy I ordered for Christmas for my nephew and ordering a second copy for him (this was after my husband and I had each read the first copy several times and I had taken it to work to show everyone how wonderful it is).	1999-11-27
US	53016938	R16JX975YC8C9	0964595702	104597023	The Best Little Beading Book (Beadwork Books)	Books	2	61	67	N	Y	great text lost in a poorly-designed book	I think the thing that amazes me the most about this book is how poorly designed and organized it is given the cost of the book.  The illustrations look like they were scribbled on scraps of paper, the black and white  photographs are dark and murky and the whole thing is laid out with only  minimal organization which is really a shame because there is a great deal  of very useful and comprehensive information here providing you can  actually find what you are looking for -- the Table of Contents is at the  -&gt;back&lt;- of the book under the heading &quot;Index;&quot; there is,  needles to say, no index per se.  Ms Conner should seriously consider  either finding another publisher for her book or persuading her current  publisher to hire both a graphic artist and an editor with experience in  creating crafts books in the event that she writes a revised edition.	1999-10-08
US	53016938	RH1T7CE3Q3T	0380728265	707245221	Blind Descent (Anna Pigeon Mysteries)	Books	5	18	19	N	Y	the best Nevada Barr book so far!	I have thoroughly enjoyed all of the books in the Anna Pigeon series but &quot;Blind Descent&quot; is the best of the bunch so far.  Barr's books are always  interesting and well-written but the previous ones sometimes  didn't have quite enough clues with the result that the endings came as a  bit of a surprise.  &quot;Blind Descent&quot; not only has the requisite  number of hints, but they are so skillfully interwoven into the story that  you will find yourself thinking, &quot;oh of course&quot; at the end.  This  is a terrific book, the descriptions of the cave are harrowing, the other  characters are well-drawn and intriguing and the pace of the book is fast.	1999-09-29
US	53016938	RMRQ04Y9KUVAO	0451405498	175779309	Anna's Book	Books	5	5	7	N	N	I loved it!	This is a beautifully crafted novel that transcends the mystery genre -- it belongs in the category of exceptional fiction.  The characters, especially that of Anna, are exceptionally well developed, the story has a  smooth, even pacing with numerous plot twists and the book's Edwardian  atmosphere is superb.  This is a terrific book!	1999-09-13
US	53016938	R1ME246C9JLDT2	0671521012	533895653	The JOURNAL OF CALLIE WADE	Books	3	0	0	N	Y	doesn't really make use of the diary format	The thing I liked best about this book was the author's beautiful and evocative descriptions of the land through which Callie travels.  I really felt as though the author has actually been to the places about which she  writes and has walked and ridden more than a few miles along the wagon  trail.  I liked Callie and her family and the people she meets but thought  the book had a very abrupt ending.  I also think the author should have  just written this as a first person novel.  This would have allowed her to  add more depth to her characters without having to keep them within the  confines of a diary format.  Still, it's a pleasant and interesting book  and well worth reading.	1999-07-14
US	53016938	R1Q78NLB99HGUT	0395854032	401143196	Polkabats and Octopus Slacks: 14 Stories	Books	1	1	15	N	Y	yuck	I ordered this as a gift for my nephew but sent it back after i read it because it seemed so listless and unimaginative.  Maybe it's something some kids would like but this adult thought it was pretty uninspired -- the sort  of thing that makes you think, gee, if this got published then just about  anyone can write poetry for children.  Give me John Ciardi anyday over  this.	1999-07-03
US	53016938	R2J1PLR3NB7KVH	0312187106	698240855	The Diary of Mattie Spenser: A Novel	Books	3	6	9	N	N	trite and formulaic	I felt like this was more of a writer's exercise in historical diary keeping than an actual diary.   I liked Mattie herself but I kept thinking that the author had made a list of required elements that appear in  authentic historical diaries that she checked off as she worked each into  her book.  Worst of all, however, was the ending.  Mattie falters and loses  sight of her true self and the story gets buried in a Hollywood ending.	1999-06-30
US	53016938	R1LPD63JLKXZ3W	0910412529	412191599	Virginians at Home: Family Life in the Eighteenth Century	Books	4	2	2	N	N	great introduction to colonial life	This brief overview of colonial life in Virginia is both entertaining and instructional.  Professor Morgan draws on numerous diary entries, letters and newspaper accounts to illustrate life in Virginia.  Although most of  the text is in regard to families living on plantations, there is plenty of  information pertaining to farmers and townspeople as well as indentured  servants and slaves. Chapters include: 1) Growing Up; 2) Getting Married;  3) Servants and Slaves; and 4) Houses and Holidays.	1999-06-26
US	53016938	RP07FJ3388Z7T	0451160916	966329377	The Shining (Signet)	Books	2	6	18	N	Y	ho hum.....	I love the movie but friends kept telling me it doesn't do the book justice and that I really should read it.  So I thought, hey, I'm willing to try anything once, even Stephen King, but boy, was I disappointed with  this novel.<br />It started out promising enough with just enough metaphors,  motifs and compulsive thinking to keep things interesting and spooky but  about half way through the book (about the time all that supernatural stuff  gets going) King begins hammering the reader over the head with  heavy-handed allusions and repeated references as though he's afraid we  won't get it.<br />Maybe it's just that I don't have much tolerance for or  interest in magical thinking but I found the last half of the book tedious  bordering on  silly.  To my mind, the scariest part of the book by far was  something that could have happened in real life -- the episode with the  wasps nest in Danny's room.  But I also think that the things real human  beings are capable of doing to each other are far more horrifying than  anything involving an elevator that moves on it's own, background ballroom  music, the whirring machinations of a wind-up clock or a hotel taking over  the body and mind of a sad, pathetic, middle-aged man.	1999-06-15
US	53016938	RN8UO42OQ4FTX	0312971028	865358360	Glass Houses: Shocking Profiles of Congressional Sex Scandals and Other Unofficial Misconduct	Books	4	52	55	N	N	startling	I was skeptical about this book at first but after  reading the profiles of the three members of Congress about whom I know the most (Henry Hyde, Trent Lott and Carol Moseley-Braun) I came to the conclusion that not only  is it factual for the most part, but it doesn't go far enough.  The authors  clearly think that impeaching President Clinton over something as banal as  lying about a sexual affair with a consenting adult is bizarre beyond  belief especially given that a) most of the attacks on the prez have come  from Republican leaders who have done far worse things  than Clinton; and  b) many of these same officials sat by while Reagen and Bush actually  committed crimes that really were worthy of impeachment.<br />However, the  authors don't spare Democrats.  Also covered are Barney Frank, Joseph  Biden, David Bonior, Alcee Hastings and Chuck Robb but to be fair,  Democrats only comprise six of the 35 profiles.  It's difficult to know if  this is because the rest of the Democrats in Congress are reasonably clean  or if the authors were deliberating targeting Republicans since they are  the ones who are out to get Clinton.<br />The book makes three things clear:   1) the GOP leaders who launched the impeachment attack on  the president  have elevated hypocrisy to a new limit; 2) the House Ethics Committee is a  joke; and 3) that nothing will change until campaign financing laws are  rewritten so it is not possible for political action committees,  corporations and individuals to &quot;buy&quot; congresspersons.<br />I wish  the authors had documented their allegations more completely, with  footnotes and references (although parts of this book comes from interviews  with Congressional staffers and with the Capitol Police).  I also think it  would be a great idea if they put out this kind of book every two years,  six months or so before the House elections.	1999-05-03
US	53016938	R1K6SFHH7LXEQE	0836221834	330814963	The Cats' House	Books	5	88	90	N	Y	a marvelous, marvelous book!	Don't buy this expecting detailed woodworking plans or construction blueprints because you'll be disappointed if what you're after is a how-to guide.  What the author has given us instead, however, is a magical book  full of inspiration and cats and color and ideas and cats and textures and  cats that will help you decide how you want to design your own special  feline walk-ways, steps, balconies, boxes, alcoves, entrance and exitways  for your cats in your house or apartment.<br />The author and his wife are  avid collectors not only of cats, but of Mexican folkart as well.  Their  house abounds with colorful textiles, furniture, masks, frames, pottery and  numerous carvings.  They have incorporated their love for these things into  the type of catwalkers and connecting pieces they designed for their house:   everything is done in vivid shades of red, purple, yellow, blue and green  and the cat pieces compliment them beautifully.  My husband and I don't  collect Mexican folk treasures but after reading this book and studying the  pictures, I realized how easy it would be to incorporate our own color  schemes, style and art objects into making a unique set of catwalkers for  our own cats.  <br />The author does provide enough instructions and  measurements so that someone who is reasonably well-acquainted with  woodworking could install the  basics (or you could always show the book  and your designs to your contractor).  The author also has suggestions on  cat-proofing your house and your collectables (such as using &quot;Quake  Hold&quot; to attach breakable objects to tables)<br />Also included in the  book are pictures of a cat habitat designed by the author for the National  Cat Protection Society in Newport Beach.	1999-05-03
US	53016938	RT4ZM84R5HM7L	0345434013	111890392	It's the Stupidity, Stupid: Why (Some) People Hate Clinton and Why the Rest of Us Have to Watch (Library of Contemporary Thought)	Books	4	6	10	N	Y	hey, it's an imperfect world	Working on the assumption that most Clinton-haters reside in the south, Shearer offers up an interesting hypothesis to explain the anti-Clinton venom (he's a traitor to his class, to his sex and to his race) but this  fails to explain why rich, white conservatives from other parts of the  country seem to hate him as much  as do the poor, white conservatives from  the deep south that Shearer writes about here.  He does veer off briefly  into other plausible reasons, most notably the hate-drenched paranoia that  propells the militia and white supremist movements, the current  &quot;culture war&quot; between generations, and the belief some Americans  have that politicians are directly  responsible for the  country's  morality, but doesn't develop these as fully as he could have.  Still, it's  a fun book and will have you laughing outloud regardless of whether you  like Clinton or merely tolerate him.	1999-04-01
US	53016938	R3FRKCM6AQJ002	0789404885	652278776	Introduction to Art Techniques	Books	4	29	30	N	N	impressive	This book is great if you are looking for a single source of information on a wide variety of art techniques.  It covers the basics and history of drawing, perspective, watercolors, pastels, oils, acrylics and mixed media  and is lavishly illustrated with examples, instructions and types of  materials used to create each.  While it is not particularily useful if you  are looking for an indepth guide to any of these areas, it is an excellent  (if pricey) choice if what you want is a good, solid, comprehensive  overview.	1999-03-29
US	53016938	R2IILK2XV81YSX	0345324412	797995088	Have Space Suit, Will Travel	Books	4	75	78	N	Y	great book	This was the first science fiction book I ever read, I found it in the public library when I was 12 years old, was intrigued by the title and took it home to read.  I enjoyed it immensely and went on to devour Heinlein's  other kid's classic, &quot;Podkayne of Mars&quot; which I thought was  equally wonderful.<br />Thirty-five years later, Kip, Peewee and the Mother  Thing have lost none of their charm.  What I found most interesting about  this book, however, was how very much things have changed since this it was  first published:  the story begins with Kip's attempting to win first prize  in a soap slogan contest (he sends in 5,000+ entries) the grand prize for  which is a trip to the moon.  He doesn't win the trip but he does win  Oscar-the-Traveling-Spacesuit, which turns out to be the best prize after  all.  Back to the contest:  Kip can send in the actual contest form   included with each bar of soap or he can send in a &quot;reasonable  facsimile.&quot;  He entertains the idea of photographing the form 5,000  times before deciding that's impractical, so he settles instead for  collecting the forms from the people who have bought the soap.  I kept  thinking, so why doesn't he just use the photocopier when it occured to me  there weren't any photocopiers when this book was written.  There weren't  any intergrated circuits either, never mind microprocessors, which would  have been necessary to achieve colonization of the moon in the first place.   I also found it interesting that although when Kip graduates from high  school he is  reasonably well-educated in sciences and math (thanks to  self-teaching -- and a diatribe from Heinlein on what he considers to be  the sorry state of 1950's high school education) because he doesn't get a  scholarship, he is faced with having to work while attending the local  (read mediocre) state college.  This book predates the arrival of college  loans and grants as well.<br />I did like the fact that the other main  character in this book is a girl -- it was good of Heinlein to provide his  readers such an intelligent and resourceful role model.	1999-03-28
US	53016938	RFWT939NRNF2Q	0812692373	473417562	Why Men Rule: A Theory of Male Dominance	Books	1	36	100	N	N	think again	The thing that kept occuring to me while I read this book was that if it  was my sex that had so thoroughly dominated human history and therefore was  primarily responsible for all the evil, misery, death and suffering humans  have inflicted on ourselves and on the planet, then I don't think I'd be so  foolish as to broadcast it from the rooftops.<br />Both Goldberg and a number  of early Second Wave feminists made the mistake of assuming that there  exists some kind of strange competition between men and women that allows  for only one winner rather than seeing us first as a species that has  always worked together to guarantee mutual survival.  This was somewhat  understandable from the perspective of feminism in the 1970's -- the  movement was just getting started again and, like all new cultural and  political movements, was interested in proving that its members have made  significant contributions to our history, that we have been and continue to  be an important and valuable asset to our community and that we are capable  of playing a much more vital role in the future.  The same thing occured  of black historians claimed that their ancestors used to rule the world and  that they had been subjugated by white barbarians who then took credit for  all the inventions and discoveries made by the conquered people.<br />It's  regretable that non-dominant peoples respond this way, but it is also  entirely human.  The problem I have with Goldberg is that rather than  simply refuting his critics, he fails to realize that the whole premise of  their claims and his response is largely irrelevant.  Yes, men have  dominated those aspects of our culture that men have valued most.  But that  doesn't mean anything except that men as a sex, have been conditioned by  our society to value dominance over cooperation, say, and that they tend to  be better at achieving this dominance by virtue of the fact that they have  more testosterone than do women and that they are not &quot;burdened&quot;  by pregnancy and child-rearing.<br />Goldberg's book would have been better  had he refrained from refighting old battles with his critics and instead  concentrated on exploring how our society is going to change in the future  now that women and girls are beginning to have greater access to the types  of education, employment and sports that have always been available to men  and boys	1999-03-24
US	53016938	R3G5V9FGWBHPYG	0345430514	692598359	Another City, Not My Own	Books	4	9	11	N	N	smarmy but lots of fun to read	I had never read anything by Dominick Dunne before this book and I only dimly remember seeing him on TV news/talk shows during the OJ trial but I've become quite enchanted with him as a result of reading this book.  He certainly seems to lead a charmed and very interesting life, green leather  notebooks and all.<br />As far as OJ goes, I really liked the excerpts from  Dunne's &quot;Vanity Fair&quot; columns and I wish I had read these  throughout the trial.  The mixture of these serious expository pieces with  the day-to-day gossip and name-dropping that the rest of the book employs  creates an interesting combination.  The book is 400+ pages long but it  goes very quickly, it's a fun book to read.  I appear to be one of the few  people who didn't mind the ending -- I figure it's Dunne's time to move on  to other things and what better way to accomplish this than by writing the  ending he did.  Sometimes fictional characters get too busy and involved in  real life for the writer's own good and the only way to alleviate the  problem is to send that fictional character some place else. Btw, did we  all notice Dunne's mentioning that he is a close friend of Lucianne  Goldberg's?  But maybe he's saving that for another book.....	1999-03-10
US	53016938	R2N982W2T1WZLB	096153530X	157310508	The Basics of Bead Stringing	Books	4	75	75	N	N	excellent quick reference	This book is not necessarily the best beading book for a novice but for anyone who has done any kind of beading or jewelery making at all, it is an valuable resource.  It provides quick access to what really are the  fundamentals of beading, it's a good reminder for the person who hasn't  made anything with, for example, the brick stitch in a couple of years and  just needs a brief guide to get her started again or for the person who  needs to remember how to attach a beadtip and clasp.  <br />The first section  explains how to begin and finish a necklace (or bracelet) including  information on  beadtips, jump rings and clasps; using crimp beads and clam  shells; knotting beads; and the double needle method.  This is followed by  a section on using wire and pins for earrings and pendants and includes  instructions on how to make wrapped wire loops, how to attach cones, how to  use memory wire and how to wrap cabs and beads.  Next is a brief section on  knotting and finishing leather and satin cords.  This is followed by  instructions on weaving, stitching and finishing designs that incorporate  the daisy chain, brick and peyote stitches.  The remainder of the book  includes descriptions of available jewelery-making materials including  types of bead cord, wire, findings, clasps and chains with examples of each  as well as a section on tools including descriptions of the various kinds  of pliers, cutters, glues, bead boards, vises and reamers.  <br />The only  problems I had with the book were minor:  the author clearly favors one  type of beading wire over the others, there is no mention of the usefulness  of split rings plus the section on how to attach a crimp bead doesn't  explain that this is a two-step process (hence the two separate sections of  a crimping plier).  It also would have been a better book had the author  included a list of major suppliers.  Still, as a quick reference, it's a  solid, dependable book.	1999-02-14
US	53016938	R3DI4T0X98KDHY	0312150601	240594756	Behind the Scenes at the Museum: A Novel	Books	5	230	242	N	Y	amazing, amazing, amazing	This is one of the best books I have ever read.  I've been carrying it around with me, showing to all my friends and recommending that they read it, too.  It's magical, magnificent, a very great, important piece of writing.  Although the story revolves around Ruby and her family, the lives of her maternal great-grandmother, grandmother and mother are woven into the story so that in effect, the there two books here:  Ruby and pre-Ruby. Several reviewers have described this novel as &quot;one of the funniest books to come out of Britain in years (The NY Times Book Review) and as &quot;comic&quot;  (Boston Sunday Globe) and while Behind the Scenes is enormously charming, inventive and endearing, don't buy this expecting it to be a funny or humorous book.  At times it is unbearably sad, sadness tinged with dark scamperings of  horror.  I was telling my husband about this book and he kept saying, &quot;this sounds awful, terrible things keep happening to these people,&quot; ! and while that is true, the author tells this story with  a beautiful lightness that keeps Ruby safe despite her sadness.  <br />One thing I found very interesting about this book was the way the women's lives went from the unending drudgery of cooking, cleaning, mending, pregnancy and taking care of numerous children by Alice, the great-grandmother who lived in rural 19th century England, to the comparatively empty days of Bunty, Ruby's mother, days that are filled up with a dedication to housekeeping that only mimics what was once a necessity of life.  Alice lived in a world where the failure to bake bread and to keep up with darning and mending meant that  children went hungry and cold in winter.  Bunty lives in a world attached to a strict household schedule (washing on Monday, ironing on Tuesday, cleaning on Wednesday, etc) and where store-bought cakes and cookies are looked upon as evidence of a slatternly nature.<br />Another interesting this about this book is the way Ruby's!  voice changesfrom when she is little to when she grows up! .  Little Ruby is consumed with magical thinking, she believes in a world of ghosts where things happen for no reason and a deck of cards designed to teach the alphabet become a wondrous bridge to life away from home. As she grows, her voice takes on depth and the effects of secondary school and while the frivolity and delightful silliness that characterize little Ruby's world continue to exist, they are moderated by her maturity.  This is a truly wonderful book.	1998-08-07
US	53016938	R9ZHBP4OOQQPX	0679454748	504254963	The Autobiography of Foudini M. Cat	Books	4	22	26	N	N	wonderful book marred by the ending	Although this is Foudini's autobiography, which he recounts for his cat, Grace, so that she will know what Life is like, the book is basically a love story about Foudini and his dog Sam.  Foudini  is rescued from the laundry room of an apartment building when he is still a small kitten.  He is eventually adopted by a couple whom he names &quot;Warm&quot; and &quot;Pest&quot; and later befriends their dog Sam (at first Foudini thinks Sam is a wolf who wants to eat him but later they become very close companions).  Much of the book details both conversations between Foudini and Sam and their games and adventures together, including the various times when Sam saves Foudini's life.  I found parts of the book utterly charming, in particular the section in which Foudini explains why cats like heat so much as well as the section in which Grace tries to teach &quot;Warm&quot; how to speak cattish (I read this outloud to my husband -- it took me nearly ten minutes to read three pages, we were laughing so much).  Schaeffer has clearly spent a great deal of time observing her own cats and here creates a universe for them that is richly populated with &quot;dog fairy tales&quot; and dreams in which real and mythological cats appear to Foudini  to help him sort out his thoughts and emotions on various matters.  The only real problem I had with the book was the ending -- one of those mythological cats that keep coming around should have told Foudini that two to three million homeless cats and kittens are euthanized in the US every year -- more kittens are not the solution to this problem.  Still, it's definitely worth reading if you like cats or dogs.	1998-07-09
US	53016938	R3SJDBJUFO2C1C	0810939886	779353370	The World of Edward Gorey	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	A is for Amy who fell down the stairs	If you like Edward Gorey then you really owe it to yourself to get a copy of this very fine book.  The authors, Clifford Ross and Karen Wilkin are artist and art critic, respectively.  Ross begins the book with an interview with Edward Gorey himself in which they talk about other painters (Matisse, Albert York, Picasso, Manet and Max Ernst in particular); Surrealism; the creative process (included are a number of sketches and notes for finished drawings); Gorey's theater pieces; fiction; and television.  Wilkin's piece   follows next in which she discusses the &quot;band of crypto-Edwardians&quot; that appear so many of Gorey's books as compared to the illustrations he does for books by other authors, for Mystery Theater and for the stage, opera, theater and ballet.  She has a very interesting perspective on Gorey's work within both historical and cultural contexts.  The second half of the book contains numerous drawings and designs followed by a chronology of Gorey's life (rich with photographs of his home, including one of his cats) and a bibliography.  A very interesting book.  The only thing I would have added is a section on the Gorey cats (the ones that grace the Amphigorey books).	1998-07-09
US	53016938	R1N4MKGIQUXSAD	0345427637	327814320	The Angel of Darkness	Books	4	70	77	N	Y	s- l-o-w beginning followed by fast, exciting conclusion	If you've already read &quot;The Alienist&quot; you can skip the first 100 pages of this book, it takes that long for Carr to settle into telling the story of Libby Hatch.  Whereas &quot;The Alienist&quot; was told from the viewpoint of John Moore, a journalist for The New York Times, &quot;The Angel of Darkness&quot; is narrated by Stevie Taggart, one of the characters from that first book.  Once the book actually gets going, however, it's first-rate, in particular the courtroom scenes with Clarence Darrow and the sections in which Stevie and Miss Howard (also from the first book) drive around upstate New York searching for information about the elusive Libby.  Theodore Roosevelt makes a reappearance in this book as well although I thought his whole reason for getting involved in the case was a bit contrived.  On the whole, however, it's a well-written and interesting book.  Carr twice hints that the next book will be written from the perspective of the independent and energetic Sara Howard, which should be most interesting.	1998-07-07
US	53016938	RQEDFFFK7PNAL	0801987482	231147162	Exotic Beads : 45 Distinctive Beaded Jewelry Designs	Books	5	72	73	N	N	excellent,  innovative	I've been collecting beads, making jewelery and reading bead books since 1970 and Sara Withers' &quot;Exotic Beads&quot; is far and away the best bead book  for the design of necklaces, bracelets and earrings I have ever seen.  The designs range from simple to complex, the photographs are large and clear and the instructions are detailed and easy to follow.  The book begins with an introduction to the history of beads and beading followed by sections on tools, equipment and findings, followed by a long section on &quot;techniques&quot; including finishing, weaving, using wire,  beadwork, loomwork and making cords and braids. The 45 designs are presented next each with a list of supplies and step-by-step instructions.  Many different artists contributed work to this book which is one of the best things about it -- you get to see a wide variety of materials and designs all exquisitely photographed.  An excellent book for all persons interested in beading, from beginners to experts.	1998-07-05
US	53016938	R2DI60BGNB9IP3	0811816443	589378073	Fantastic Felines	Books	4	42	44	N	Y	beautiful but somewhat insubstantial	If you love Laurel Burch then you will love this book.  It's gorgeous, sumptious, lavish -- all the words that people use to describe Burch's artwork.  I thought the most interesting parts were 1) the biography; 2) the pictures detailing how various objects are planned, sketched, painted and then produced; and 3) actress Tippi Hendren's work in rescuing big cats (lions, tigers, etc).  It would have been a better book, however, had there been more text regarding production as well as Burch's background and approach to her work.  The last couple of chapters  contain information about the various product lines (cups, plates, scarves, umbrellas, etc) plus four pages showing all of her cat jewelery -- but no information on how to obtain them or when and if her jewelery will be available again.  Many of the pictures of Burch's artwork are suitable for framing, btw, so you may want to order two copies. Nb:  with a couple of exceptions, all of the  photographs are of Burch's cat pieces (hence the title of the book, &quot;Fantastic Felines&quot;).  Don't buy this expecting an overview of all her work.  But if you like the cats, then this book is definitely for you.	1998-06-22
US	53016938	R2BF8QCJB2DKUL	0553562967	96085944	Bellwether	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Marshmallow Fluff	I think Connie Willis is the best writer of English prose alive today.  Her other books, in particular &quot;Lincoln's Dreams,&quot; are astoundingly beautiful and lyrical, serious books told in a vivid voice that draws pictures, scenarios and characters together with what seems like effortless grace.  She is like a breath of cool clear air after the stuffiness of a closed room.  &quot;Bellwether,&quot; however, is about as subtle as a grocery cart at it careens around the heroine's self-conscious pre-occupation with fads and trends.  I must admit, however, there were several things i liked:  Flip the office assistant; the little girl's use of a map to tell a story about her Barbie doll; the scene in the cafeteria where everyone has to come up with Dilbertesque slogans. But overall, the book is a disappointment, albiet minor.  It's also fast and easy so you might as well read it.  My husband, btw, liked it more than I did, especially the bits about bread pudding, the longevity of the angel/devil's food cake fads, po-mo pink, Malibu Beach House Barbie, Alice Blue, diorama wigs and, of course, Billy Ray and the sheep.	1998-06-12
US	53016938	R3PPTFZH512YB5	0380842939	611242480	Sacajawea (Lewis & Clark Expedition)	Books	5	77	79	N	Y	beautiful, sumptious, magnificent writing	I was completely enthralled with this book during the month it took me to read it and now that I have finished it, I feel like I am saying good-bye to a true and valued friend.  Anna Lee Waldo has created a scholarly masterpiece that deserves to be read by future generations, not just by North Americans seeking to learn more about their countries, but by people all over the world.  Sacagawea's story of perservance, hope and belief in herself are an inspiration for everyone.  Although the book covers all of what is known about Sacagawea's life, there appears to be some question as to when and where exactly she died.   Waldo presents the known facts and lets the reader decide for him/herself.  The book contains hundreds of interesting footnotes as well as a detailed biography.  There is also a small, rather inadequate map -- you may find you need to get a larger, clearer one of the area in order to keep up with Sacagawea's travels throughout the west.  My only problem with the book was the cover which makes it look like an historical romance which it is decidedly not (although it does contain love and romance and joy as well as sorrow and pain).  I am greatful to amazon.com for  helping me to find this wonderful book, to echo what jhogan said earlier, why isn't this book better known?	1998-05-23
US	53016938	R199BBVG12ND7N	0451190866	850646477	The Misty Hills of Home	Books	4	10	11	N	Y	more about Oklahoma than about the Osage	I read &quot;Misty Hills of Home&quot; based on the fact that I really enjoyed two of Medawar's other books (&quot;People of the Whistling Waters&quot; and &quot;Death at Rainey Mountain&quot; are about 19th century Crow and Kiowa tribes) but unfortunately, the details that made the other two books so interesting are absent from &quot;Misty Hills of Home.&quot;  Which is not to say that &quot;Misty Hills&quot; isn't worth reading.  It's an entertaining book that covers the lives and loves of an Osage family living on tribal lands in Oklahoma from the beginning of the Great Depression until the end of World War II.  The problem I had with the book is that for all the reference that's made to Native American culture and history, Medwar could just as easily have been writing about my own Irish-American family, residents of Oklahoma since the 1870's.  Still, it's worth reading, particularily if you are a fan of the author.	1998-04-27
US	53016938	R2SS0RWZ7SOTRB	0553576577	348280939	People of the Whistling Waters	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	wonderful book!	This is a marvelous, thoroughly entertaining and very interesting book.  The characters, beginning with Renee and Willow DeGeer and their family, are complex and intriguing.  The story focuses on the period between the 1830's, when white settlers began moving onto Crow land, and the 1880's, after the Crow have moved to the reservation, moved into houses and begun taking &quot;real&quot; jobs.  The story begins with Nicholas, the adopted son, and follows him as he is assmilated into the Whistling Waters Clan.  The relationship between the DeGeer parents and their children is warm, loving and humorous.  The book is full of historical and cultural details and, as is usual with Medawar's books, all the women are small and feisty while all the men are tall and handsome.  This book won the Western Writers of America award for best first novel in 1994.	1998-04-27
US	53016938	R13LB4QDJ5VBKA	0440224071	64914490	Los Alamos	Books	4	1	3	N	N	entertaining	I really liked this book, it's a mystery within a mystery within a mystery.  I liked the characters and the story and I thought it was reasonably true to the times, historically as well as culturally (sorry, I don't know enough about nuclear fission to comment on the science) including the overt racism towards American citizens of Hispanic descent that was so prevalent at the time (although Kanon could have done with a bit less authenticity in this area) as well as the main characters' tendency to romanticize the Anasazi people of Chaco and Bandalier while marginalizing current Navaho and pueblo tribes.  It did irk me that Kanon kept referring to the Los Alamos/Jemez area as the &quot;desert,&quot; when, in fact, it's actually part of the Rocky Mountains and sustains not only the snowfall but also similar varieties of the flora and fauna found throughout that mountain chain, but that's a small thing in comparison with how much I enjoyed this book.  Ps for Mr Kanon:  most of those roads were not paved until the 1960's and 70's.	1998-03-31
US	53016938	R2IK8PNH5910IS	042516098X	71891417	Hornet's Nest (Andy Brazil)	Books	1	4	7	N	N	Virginia West is great even if she does smoke.	I don't have a problem with Cornwell introducing new characters -- I loved Virginia West and hope she appears in more books.  But overall the story is bland and tedious, nothing much happens except everyone seems to spend a lot of time eating in diners and fast food places.  This in contrast to the luscious restaurant and cooking scenes of the Scarpetta books where the food always sounds like something you'd actually enjoy eating.  I also got very tired of Cornwell's constant use of size, shape and athetic prowess as valid indicators not only of an individual's personality but also of his/her value to society.  But worst of all is what Cornwell does to Andy Brazil, one of her main characters, whom she initially describes as a wonderful person, intelligent, hard-working, dedicated, talented and (of course) thin and athletic, but who also has a strange habit... I wonder if West's words to him signify the beginning of a relationship similar to that of the Chief and her husband: strong woman character whose formerly thin and talented husband gradually sinks into despair and obesity, alienated from his wife, his sons and himself.	1998-03-23
US	53016938	RIOGNHI5LM9AH	0060987103	816790174	Wicked: The Life and Times of the Wicked Witch of the West	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Great story marred only by the ending.	Despite what other reviewers have written and what the blurb on the back of the book says, I never thought this story had anything to do with determining the nature of &quot;evil.&quot;  Basically, it's just an extraordinarily beautiful, rich and detailed retelling of the Oz story from a different point of view.  I was terribly disappointed with the ending, however, Elphaba loses all her idealism, courage and spirit after her lover is killed.  She wastes away to a shadow and all that is left by the end of the book is her guilt, sadness and denial.  Elphaba is such a strong, interesting and innovative character full of intelligence, justice, action and fury, it just doesn't make sense to me that she would lose all this and then retreat first to a convent for seven years and then to the outlands of the Vinkus before  acceding to her own death.  On the other hand, Frank Baum decreed the ending of this book 98 years ago so perhaps there was nothing more Gregory Maguire could do.	1998-03-23
US	53016938	RR3QGCUN3HGGW	0385481713	604702171	The Alphabet of Modern Annoyances	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Mostly entertaining.	Some of what Steinberg writes about has already been done to death by the media (&quot;Oprah&quot; and &quot;McDonalds&quot;) plus he is just plain wrong in at least one instance (while it is true that most adults who abuse their children were themselves abused, it is not true that all or even most of these adults inevitably go on to abuse their own children).  I also disliked his double-standard with regard to fat:  apparently it's okay as long as you are male and don't weigh more than Steinberg himself does.  However, the book is certainly worth reading, the sections on &quot;Advertising,&quot; &quot;Bureaucracy,&quot; &quot;Idiot,&quot; &quot;Litter,&quot; &quot;Quackery,&quot; &quot;Traffic,&quot; &quot;UFO's,&quot; &quot;Yugoslavia,&quot; and &quot;Zealots&quot; are insightful, humorous, interesting and well-written.  My favorite chapter, &quot;Computers,&quot; is laugh-out-loud-funny in places, in particular the part on Socratic dialogue in AOL Lobby 35.  It's a good book for an evening or for reading aloud during a car trip.	1998-03-23
US	53016938	R1TFC2Q3R25AGI	0871136791	11590154	Cold Mountain	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Wonderful Book	Cold Mountain has only two flaws:  the ending and the fact that it alternates from gorgeous, splendid, magnificent writing to merely gorgeous, splendid writing.  It's quite unlike anything I have ever read before, extraordinarily well-researched, lyrical, beautiful, you can touch the snow and taste the coldness of the creek water.  I often find myself thinking about it even though it's been three months and nine other books since I read it.  My great-grandmother, who lived in the same general area, was 20 years old at the end of the Civil War.  Like Ada, she too was educated, came from a well-to-do family and also had to wait until the end of the war before she could be with her betrothed.  My great-grandparents' story end differently but  but reading Ada's story made me taught me a great deal about what daily life must have been like for my great-grandmother.	1998-03-23
