US	53015768	R3JK7TVNZDNRH2	0802150373	62415828	Murphy	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Comic-tragic masterpiece	Murphy is a novel unlike any other. Quite deliberately, Beckett's characters are not portrayed with realistic fullness, and the plot is fragmented and incomplete. Nevertheless, this is an enjoyable read if conventional expectations are suspended. Beckett's early work is often compared to Joyce, but they are actually very different. Beckett's works are essentially tragic-comic. There is one passage that perfectly encapsulates the problem of desire:<br /><br />\\"I greatly fear,\\" said Wylie, \\"that the syndrome known as life is too diffuse to admit of palliation. For every symptom that is eased, another is made worse. The horse leech's daughter is a closed system. Her quantum of wantum cannot vary.\\"<br /><br />Beckett considered this passage important enough to repeat twice in his novel. Murphy, the protagonist of this novel, realizes in effect that desire can never be satisfied, and so he simply withdraws from life, attempting to reach a state of catatonic stupor. His girlfriend tries with tragic pathos to draw him back into life, but her attempts are doomed to failure. Murphy's friends are all similar to himself, fragmented and incomplete. The novel's vision is absurdist, tragic, and existentialist--humans are \\"windowless monads,\\" doomed to isolation and misunderstanding. Beckett's achievement consists primarily in the brilliantly original language used to communicate his vision. Like Shakespeare or any great poet, his work cannot be summarized but must be experienced.	2005-10-10
US	53015768	R235AYBR8CRWU3	1579100996	678154255	Calvin, Geneva and the Reformation	Books	4	10	11	N	Y	Helpful and well-written	This is a sympathetic study of Calvin as Geneva Church leader by a well-qualified scholar who has written at least two other books on Calvin's doctrines. While most books on Calvin focus on his theology, Wallace looks at Calvin the public person, especially his stormy relationship with Geneva and his work as pastor and teacher. There is also a brief section on Calvin's theology which approaches the subject from a pastoral point of view. Wallace is frankly Protestant, and he defends Calvin from his many detractors. This is not hagiography, however; Wallace is not afraid to discuss honestly some of the more unsavory episodes of Calvin's career, for example the Servetus affair. Wallace is a minister and biblical scholar, so he approaches the subject from this perspective. This is a good place to start in learning about John Calvin, the great Protestant reformer and theologian.	2005-10-04
US	53015768	R1WHK68U7LHM5Y	0192822500	405174767	The Malcontent and Other Plays (The World's Classics)	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	A quirky genius	Marston is among the first rank of English Renaissance dramatists, right up there with Marlowe, Middleton, and Webster. His achievement, however, is not fully commensurate with his genius: his reputation rests largely on one play, the satire THE MALCONTENT, which helped establish the fad for \\"disguised ruler\\" plays in the early 17th century (including Shakespeare's MEASURE FOR MEASURE). The other four plays in this collection, however, are also consistently fascinating.<br /><br />Marston is a rather anomalous figure in many ways; in the middle of a successful career as a dramatist, he became a clergyman and completely dissociated himself with the theater, even refusing to allow his name to be used on a printed collection of his plays. Unlike Middleton and Shakespeare, Marston wrote for the \\"boys'\\" acting company of St. Paul's Cathedral which used the indoor Blackfriars theater. Marston's works themselves are quite unique, blending tragedy and comedy in a highly satirical combination. His satirical perspective typifies the Jacobean period more than the Elizabethean. He has a real gift for language, with many very memorable lines. Another unusual feature of Marston's works is the many songs and musical interludes; the lyrics are included, but the music has been lost. This collection is essential reading for fans of Shakespeare and the English Renaissance. The introduction is highly intelligent and insightful, well worth reading.<br /><br />The general editors of this series should be flogged, however, for using inconvenient endnotes instead of footnotes. Notes are essential, as Marston liked to sprinkle Latin quotations throughout the dialogue, but turning to the back five to ten times each page will drive a reasonable person crazy. The editors seem to take an adolescent pleasure in pointing out every single possible sexual reference. There are many of them, but the editors sometimes invent sexual references even where they don't exist. As Freud once said, sometimes a cigar is just a cigar. In any case, I don't need the editors to tell me of a sexual reference. If you have to explain it, the joke isn't funny.times a cigar is just a cigar. In any case, I don't need the editors to tell me of a sexual reference. If you have to explain it, the joke isn't funny.	2005-09-25
US	53015768	R1P87SDNY7LAO5	0486282759	334933191	The Description of England: The Classic Contemporary Account of Tudor Social Life	Books	4	16	16	N	Y	Smorgasbord of delights	This is a wonderful account of life in Renaissance England by someone who was actually there, a quite worldly clergyman named William Harrison, who is opinionated and often comically pedantic. Did you know that England has more \\"idle servingmen\\" than any other nation on earth, who \\"otherwise would be brought to labor and live in order like subjects. Of their whoredoms I will not speak anything at all, more than of their swearing, yet it is found that some of them do make the first a chief pillar of the building, consuming not only the goods but also the health and welfare of many honest gentlemen, citizens, wealthy yeomen, etc. by such unlawful dealings\\" (119).<br /><br />Not many people know that \\"If the philosopher's stone were once found, and one part hereof mixed with forty of molten glass,\\" we would have glasses that would never break, but bounce right off a stone floor (128).  Did you know that clergy and religious men have the strongest wines (130)? Harrison also includes detailed instructions for making your own beer, starting with raw grain.<br /><br />In the olden days of England, accused malefactors were subject to a trial by fire or water. In the trial by fire, you were forced to walk over iron ploughshares heated red hot, \\"whosoever did bear or tread upon the same without hurt of his body, he was adjudged guiltless; otherwise, if his skin was scorched, he was forthwith condemned guilty\\" (168).<br /><br />Most people think that \\"idle vagabonds\\" are simply an disordered rabble, but in Renaissance England they were actually a highly organized hierarchy consisting of Rufflers, Uprightmen, Hookers or Anglers, Rogues, Wild Rogues, Priggers of Prancers, Palliards, Fraters, Abrams, Fresh-water mariners or whipjacks, Dummerers, Drunken Tinkers, Swadders or Peddlers, Jarkmen or Patricoes; Women Vagabonds were classified as Demanders for glimmer or fire, Bawdy Baskets, Morts, Autem Morts, Walking Morts, Doxies, Dells, Kinchin Morts, and Kinchin Coes. Harrison provides definitions of all of the above. \\"Players\\" or actors were also classified as vagabonds during this time period.<br /><br />For serious crimes, malefactors were taken from \\"the prison to the place of execution upon an hurdle or sled, where they are hanged till they be half dead and then taken down and quartered alive; after that, their members (genitals) and bowels are cut from their bodies and thrown into a fire provided near-hand and within their own sight. Sometimes, if the trespass be not the more heinous, they are suffered to hang till they be quite dead.\\"<br /><br />According to Harrison, everything in England is going to hell in a hand basket in these newfangled modern days, \\"for when our houses were builded of willow, then had we oaken men; but now that our houses are come to be made of oak, our men are not only become willow but a great many, through Persian delicacy crept in among us, altogether of straw, which is a sore alteration\\" (276). Everybody is trying to get rich and etc. etc.<br /><br />Nevertheless, according to Harrison, England is plainly the greatest country in the world, with the best sheep and cows, the best houses, the best building rocks, the best water, the best religion, the best ships and best everything, certainly much better than those effeminate French or Italians, not to mention those corrupt Spanish!<br /><br />In sum, this is delightful tour of the English world during the 16th century. Not much on politics, but lots on the social and cultural life of everyday Englishmen. I won't say it's consistently fascinating, but it has lots of interesting tidbits.l of the above. \\"Players\\" or actors were also classified as vagabonds during this time period.     For serious crimes, malefactors were taken from \\"the prison to the place of execution upon an hurdle or sled, where they are hanged till they be half dead and then taken down and quartered alive; after that, their members (genitals) and bowels are cut from their bodies and thrown into a fire provided near-hand and within their own sight. Sometimes, if the trespass be not the more heinous, they are suffered to hang till they be quite dead.\\"     According to Harrison, everything in England is going to hell in a hand basket in these newfangled modern days, \\"for when our houses were builded of willow, then had we oaken men; but now that our houses are come to be made of oak, our men are not only become willow but a great many, through Persian delicacy crept in among us, altogether of straw, which is a sore alteration\\" (276). Everybody is trying to get rich and etc. etc.    Nevertheless, according to Harrison, England is plainly the greatest country in the world, with the best sheep and cows, the best houses, the best building rocks, the best water, the best religion, the best ships and best everything, certainly much better than those effeminate French or Italians, not to mention those corrupt Spanish!     In sum, this is delightful tour of the English world during the 16th century. Not much on politics, but lots on the social and cultural life of everyday Englishmen. I won't say it's consistently fascinating, but it has lots of interesting tidbits.	2005-09-16
US	53015768	R2O1UMD10L1Q3P	0198207662	411720920	The Sixteenth Century: 1485-1603 (Short Oxford History of the British Isles)	Books	2	6	10	N	Y	Dry and Disconnected	This book is not your standard narrative history, but rather a collection of essays by leading 16th century English historians. There is an attempt to give equal space to Ireland and Scotland in addition to England. While generally admirable, this leads to a rather disconnected history, with many abrupt switches back and forth from England to Ireland to Scotland. The organization of the book into sections on Economy, Politics, Religion, Political theory, Arts, and Foreign relations is rather awkward and leads to an unnecessarily fragmented account. The writing is generally quite dry and dense, as the author is required to cover an entire century of history in one short essay. John Guy's essay on Political theory during the period, however, is quite interesting, covering an aspect of 16th century history usually ignored in general histories. There are much better histories of the period available, notably NEW WORLDS, LOST WORLDS: THE RULE OF THE TUDORS, 1485-1603 by Susan Brigden.	2005-09-15
US	53015768	R1HHXZ795T5CXE	0192823205	671422606	Four Jacobean Sex Tragedies: William Barksted and Lewis Machin: The Insatiate Countess; Francis Beaumont and John Fletcher: The Maid's Tragedy; Thomas ... of Valentinian (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	David Lynch, move on over!	Oh my goodness! What a wonderful gruesome collection of early 17th century plays! Jacobean drama is conventionally characterized as \\"decadent,\\" and this anthology seems to justify the appellation. How about nymphomania, necrophilia, incest, murder, poison, blackmail, adultery, and rape? Although the subject matter is sensational, these are also serious psychological studies, well-written and well-plotted dramas. These fascinating plays are not widely available, but they should be. Anybody interested in 17th century English drama and culture will enjoy these plays. The plays are especially provocative in their treatment of monarchy; the royal court is typically portrayed as deeply corrupted, tyrannous, and decadent. Amazingly, for an age of royal absolutism, these plays seem to justify regicide. David Lynch, more over, here come the Jacobean sex tragedies.<br /><br />I agree with the comments of the previous reviewer that the editing leaves much to be desired. The use of endnotes instead of footnotes is horribly distracting. I finally just stopped using the notes. Most of the notes are unnecessary and add little to the understanding of the text. If you're familiar with reading Shakespeare, you can probably comprehend these texts without looking at the endnotes.	2005-09-14
US	53015768	R200LBL0AGP2N8	0140432191	563429704	Five Plays (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	True dramatic masterpieces from the English Renaissance	This is probably the best available collection of Middleton's wonderful plays. It includes the interesting \\"city comedies\\": \\"A Trick to Catch the Old One\\" and \\"A Chaste Maid in Cheapside,\\" which reveal so much about 17th century London culture. The highlight of this collection, however, is undoubtedly the 3 great tragedies \\"The Revenger's Tragedy,\\" \\"Women Beware Women\\" and \\"The Changeling.\\" Modern movies have nothing on Jacobean drama when it comes to sex and violence. Incest, adultery, murder, and poison are all the order of the day here. The female leads are fascinating psychological studies. These are disturbing plays! Unlike the Oxford editions of Middleton, the editing here never gets in the way of your enjoyment of the text. Footnotes are used to aid with the occasionally unfamiliar language, but they are never obtrusive. The introduction is insightful and interesting. If you like Shakespeare, you will probably enjoy Middleton also. While his poetry is not as consistently sublime as Shakespeare's, Middleton is fully comparable with the other great English Renaissance playwrights Christopher Marlowe, Ben Jonson, and John Webster. The only really significant play by Middleton which is missing here is \\"A Game at Chess,\\" an anti-Catholic satire which is historically fascinating.	2005-09-09
US	53015768	RBUVZWAEDBDH8	019282614X	11108432	Women Beware Women: And Other Plays (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Neglected Masterpieces	Thomas Middleton is one of the greatest playwrights of the early 17th century, and this is a collection of some of his best works. \\"Women Beware Women\\" and \\"The Changeling\\" are both devastating tragedies, fully comparable to Christopher Marlowe's and John Webster's greatest works. This collection also includes \\"A Chaste Maid in Cheapside,\\" a good example of a 17th century London \\"city comedy.\\" The editors also include a fascinating work of anti-catholic propaganda, \\"A Game at Chess,\\" an historical allegory. \\"A Game at Chess\\" is not widely available, making this collection especially valuable.<br /><br />The language of the plays is frequently quite difficult, making footnotes absolutely necessary. However, the editors of this work have inexplicably chosen to use endnotes instead of footnotes. This makes reading extremely slow and difficult, since there are 5 to 10 notes per page. For each page the reader must go to the back of the book 5 or 10 times to check the unfamiliar vocabulary, syntax, or sloppy 17th century editing.<br /><br />For the reader interested in Middleton, there are other choices available, including a penguin collection (entitled FIVE PLAYS) which uses footnotes and includes \\"The Revenger's Tragedy\\" and another comedy in addition to the essential tragedies mentioned above. The Norton anthology of ENGLISH RENAISSANCE DRAMA includes Middleton's great tragedies in addition to the important cross-dressing comedy \\"The Roaring Girl,\\" and also uses the more convenient footnotes.	2005-09-07
US	53015768	RJROZ9QOGA9WM	019283455X	68975839	A Mad World, My Masters and Other Plays: A Mad World, My Masters; Michaelmas Term; A trick to Catch the Old One; No Wit, No Help Like a Woman's (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	3	6	10	N	N	London "City Comedies" by a Renaissance Master	This is a collection of Middleton's \\"city comedies\\" that take as their subject matter life in Renaissance London. They were written in the early 17th century. Middleton wrote some great tragedies, and he deserves his reputation as a major playwright of the time, perhaps unjustly overshadowed by Shakespeare's looming presence. The comparison, however, is unavoidable. The plays in this collection are not among Middleton's best works, which are undoubtedly the tragedies. The \\"city comedies\\" here are the Renaissance equivalent of a modern soap opera or situation comedy, and just as ephemeral. They are, however, of substantial interest to social and cultural historians, as well as scholars of Renaissance drama. They are all about cuckold husbands, greedy tradesmen, adulterous wives, foolish aristocrats, and grasping prostitutes. The character names say it all: Follywit, Harebrain, Brothel, Dustbox, Falselight, Pecunious Lucre, Moneylove, and Goldenfleece, to give just a sampling. The plots are generally convoluted and contrived. The language is often hard to decipher, not because of its rich complexity, as with Shakespeare, but because of the obscure vocabulary, syntax, and sloppy 17th century editing. Compounding the difficulty of the text is that the explanatory notes are all in the back of the book. Now, modern Shakespeare editions always use footnotes, not endnotes, for obvious reasons, so what makes the Oxford editors think they can use endnotes? It's very distracting and awkward to have to turn to the back of the book 5 or 10 times for each page of reading. Yes, every page has 5 to 10 endnotes! There is also a glossary in back, so if you have a question, and there is no endnote, you have to look up the word in the glossary. All this explanatory material should be put on the same page as the playtext. This is a major editing blunder, and there is no excuse for it. Compare the Norton edition of RENAISSANCE DRAMA, where they use footnotes. On the positive side, the Oxford English Drama series does make these plays more widely available. Although I can't imagine that anyone will read them apart from historians, literary scholars, and their students.ford English Drama series does make these plays more widely available. Although I can't imagine that anyone will read them apart from historians, literary scholars, and their students.	2005-09-04
US	53015768	R1BNHT3QLFXRBO	0060633166	405787417	2: The Story of Christianity: Volume Two - The Reformation to the Present Day	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Essential and fascinating	This is a very readable and detailed history (in two volumes) of the Christian religion from the time of the Apostles until 1984, when the book was published. I read this book out of general interest, although I understand that it is widely used for college courses on church history and doctrine. The history of the church is a huge topic, and Gonzalez has a real talent for summarizing complex developments and making them very accessible for a general reader. No special background in theology or history is required to appreciate this wonderful account. Gonzalez is apparently Protestant, but he gives a fair and balanced account of all denominations, including Catholic and Orthodox. He also includes mysticism and the radical sects. He is aware of the current scholarship, but he doesn't get bogged down in the numerous scholarly controversies of historians. He doesn't succumb to revisionism and p.c.; he's not afraid to call a spade a spade. But if there is genuine ambiguity and grounds for debate, he does mention that. The two volumes of this book also work well as a concise history of western civilization from year one until 1984. Gonzalez is able to identify the most important events and issues and describe them clearly and concisely. The major theological movements are described very briefly. This is not primarily a history of doctrine, but rather a history of the various Christian churches.<br /><br />Footnotes are kept to an absolute minimum here, in order to avoid unnecessary distractions. Suggestions for further reading are given at the end of each section, but these are very incomplete. For example, the only suggestion for further reading on English Puritanism was published in 1912.<br /><br />Gonzalez's area of special interest is Latin American Christianity, and so he devotes some space to the history of Christianity there from the time of the Spanish Conquistadores to the Liberation theology of the late 20th century. Since this book was written before the demise of the Soviet Union, I think a revised edition is in order.e demise of the Soviet Union, I think a revised edition is in order.	2005-09-02
US	53015768	R121NSKRRC60SF	0060633158	101171164	The Story of Christianity, Volume 1: The Early Church to the Dawn of the Reformation (Story of Christianity)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Essential and fascinating	This is a very readable and detailed history (in two volumes) of the Christian religion from the time of the Apostles until 1984, when the book was published. I read this book out of general interest, although I understand that it is widely used for college courses on church history and doctrine. The history of the church is a huge topic, and Gonzalez has a real talent for summarizing complex developments and making them very accessible for a general reader. No special background in theology or history is required to appreciate this wonderful account. Gonzalez is apparently Protestant, but he gives a fair and balanced account of all denominations, including Catholic and Orthodox. He also includes mysticism and the radical sects. He is aware of the current scholarship, but he doesn't get bogged down in the numerous scholarly controversies of historians. He doesn't succumb to revisionism and p.c.; he's not afraid to call a spade a spade. But if there is genuine ambiguity and grounds for debate, he does mention that. The two volumes of this book also work well as a concise history of western civilization from year one until 1984. Gonzalez is able to identify the most important events and issues and describe them clearly and concisely. The major theological movements are described very briefly. This is not primarily a history of doctrine, but rather a history of the various Christian churches.<br /><br />Footnotes are kept to an absolute minimum here, in order to avoid unnecessary distractions. Suggestions for further reading are given at the end of each section, but these are very incomplete. For example, the only suggestion for further reading on English Puritanism was published in 1912.<br /><br />Gonzalez's area of special interest is Latin American Christianity, and so he devotes some space to the history of Christianity there from the time of the Spanish Conquistadores to the Liberation theology of the late 20th century. Since this book was written before the demise of the Soviet Union, I think a revised edition is in order.e demise of the Soviet Union, I think a revised edition is in order.	2005-09-02
US	53015768	R10OYU2NY0F8QK	0300027605	60295148	The Age of Reform, 1250-1550: An Intellectual and Religious History of Late Medieval and Reformation Europe	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	Profound, insightful, accessible, and interesting!	Steven Ozment's writing stands head and shoulders above that of most historians. He makes the difficult and thorny religious issues of this period accessible and interesting. At the same time, he goes in depth and never oversimplifies the complicated issues at stake in this period. Even scholars very familiar with this period will learn from this book. Most histories of the Reformation skim over lightly the medieval background. A great strength of this book is the in-depth treatment of the late medieval religious and intellectual period. Ozment gives insightful treatments of Thomism, late-medieval nominalism, mysticism, Renaissance humanism, anti-clericalism, and how all these contributed to the Protestant Reformation and modernity. Although he focuses on intellectual and religious history, he also discusses the political and social history since religion, politics, and culture cannot be separated in this period. Another notable feature of Ozment's treatment is that he recognizes and discusses the interpretive controversies of Reformation and Renaissance historians. He gives very fair summaries of the positions of the leading scholars, including their strengths and weaknesses; these summaries are very handy for graduate or undergraduate students who need to write an essay on this period. I give this book my highest recommendation. For anyone interested in Christianity and its role in the development of modernity, this book is essential!	2005-08-16
US	53015768	R2EUGUWRSTURWV	0847688356	67591012	Europe's Reformations, 1450-1650 (Critical Issues in History)	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Fascinating history	This is a very informative and well-written history. This book is not just a religious history, but also a general history of europe from 1450 to 1650: culture, society, politics, economics, and art. He makes the valuable point that religion and politics are always intertwined, and that we need to consider both. The trend today among revisionist historians is to reduce everything to power and self-interest. Tracy argues, on the other hand, that religious ideas tend to have a life of their own. Politics is vitally important of course, but ideas are also important. Tracy's discussions of theological issues are a model of clarity and insight. Tracy is mildly revisionist, insisting that the Reformation is more about an ideal (sometimes a reality) of \\"holy community\\" than about individualism. This claim seems to have become the new dogma among Reformation historians; compare Diarmaid MacCulloch's recent history of the Reformation. Tracy divides the book into 3 main sections: Doctrine, Politics, and Society. The section on politics is often extremely dense and boring; it seems often merely a list of wars and battles.<br /><br />I agree with the previous reviewer that there are way too many endnotes. Many of the endnotes are simply unnecessary: words in common usage, such as \\"salvation,\\" are noted and defined in the endnotes. The fact that the endnotes are in back of the book and not at the bottom of the page is extremely inconvenient. The problem here is that the reader never knows when an endnote is actually important or not, so he or she is forced to go to the back and interrupt the reading. If something is important enough to be noted, then it should go in the text; if not, leave it out. 'Nuff said.	2005-07-28
US	53015768	R2TJ123CPRVHAO	0446671940	956390499	How to Stay Single Forever	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	This book Works!	I bought this book for myself because it's so funny, and my then-girlfriend took it and read it, and sure enough, we never got married! It has hilarious tips for staying single including: \\"get along GREAT with his mother.\\" Another good one is \\"have an image problem\\" which includes this sample dialogue:<br />Her: Do you think my thighs are fat?<br />Him: No, I think your thighs are beautiful.<br />Her: Then you think fat is beautiful.<br />Him: Well, if you don't like your body, why don't you start working out?<br />Her: So you do think my thighs are fat!<br />Him: No, I think your thighs are beautiful.<br />Keep repeating this conversation until your relationship is over. (It won't take long.)	2005-07-19
US	53015768	REY9Q73FETWH5	0679736654	738686232	A Scanner Darkly	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Drug-induced paranoid fantastic hilarity	Not primarily a science-fiction novel, but a chronicle of the drug-crazed sixties based on personal experience. Includes a lot of very funny and witty conversations between the various drug addict characters. A Scanner Darkly is also a deeply felt elegy for Dick's friends who died or went crazy from drug use. The protagonist, Robert Arctor (actor), is an undercover drug agent assigned to spy on himself. He eventually becomes so alienated from himself from drug use that he doesn't even realize that he is spying on himself; he can't recognize himself or even remember his own name. Dick draws here on the tradition of the Double, found in Dostoevsky, Poe, Freud, and others. Classic questioning of our understanding of identity, showing how fragile and inessential our self is. Plenty of cosmic speculations on the soul, and many great moments of paranoia in which the reader and protagonist can't tell what's real or not. Often entertaining, this is not up to the high standards of Dick's best work, but still better than 90% of the science fiction novels out there.	2005-07-15
US	53015768	R1WX5EBK5Z6OAQ	0393974294	647883590	The Norton Anthology of Theory and Criticism	Books	4	38	40	N	N	Amazing collection of essential Literary Criticism	This is one of the few comprehensive anthologies of literary theory on the market now, and among the best. THE CRITICAL TRADITION, ed. David Richter, is also very good. But CRITICAL THEORY SINCE PLATO, ed. by Adams, is out of date, and LITERARY THEORY, ed. by Rivkin and Ryan, is not well-edited, giving only short selections, and not comprehensive, with no coverage of classic criticism. Unlike some previous reviewers, I find that the Norton covers well the pre-twentieth century periods. But the coverage of the modern period, while wide-ranging, is still incomplete. The editors, as is typical with norton anthologies, try to cover too much, and end up leaving out some of the most important writers and works. There are too many essays by currently fashionable yet ultimately obscure post-colonial, race, queer, gender, and pop culture theorists. There is nothing here by Brecht on his famous \\"alienation effect.\\" Where is Shklovsky's great essay on \\"defamiliarization\\"? Rene Girard, indubitably one of the most important theorists of the twentieth century, is completely missing in action--a rather shocking omission. Rey Chow, one of the most important post-colonial theorists is also missing. Major players Greenblatt, Bakhtin, Eagleton, Gilbert & Gubar, Showalter, DuBois, Henry Louis Gates, Derrida, Wolfgang Iser are included, but the editors do not always select their most important works. Like all the Norton anthologies, it is printed on onion skin paper which is so thin you can easily see through to the next page. Hopefully the editors will correct some of these faults in future editions; meanwhile this is still one of the best anthologies of literary theory available and essential for all English majors and teachers. But consider also THE CRITICAL TRADITION edited by Richter.	2005-07-14
US	53015768	R1B2KL0Y8MDX0K	041535112X	775969817	Literary Theory: The Basics	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Clear, concise, and insightful	This is absolutely the best introduction to modern literary theory, and I have read them all! He introduces the theories in an historical narrative, explaining how and why they arose. He discusses the major figures in theory, and includes a valuable guide to further reading. His explanations of the abstruse and arcane world of literary theory are models of clarity and conciseness. I teach an introductory class on literary theory, and this is the book I use, chosen after carefully reviewing all available options.	2005-06-24
US	53015768	RMFQSFH8UIQF7	0679409890	935878950	Canterbury Tales (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Best reading Edition.	This review is for [[ASIN:0679409890 Canterbury Tales (Everyman's Library Classics & Contemporary Classics)]]. Please note that this version is Chaucer in the original Middle English, with easily accessible side notes and foot notes. This version is actually preferable to the Riverside Chaucer and the Norton Critical edition for simply reading and enjoying Chaucer in his original language. The Everyman's library edition is NOT a translation, and includes ALL the tales (unlike the Norton ed.). It's worthwhile reading Chaucer in the original Middle English, despite the difficulty for a modern reader, because of the beauty of the poetry, which can't be translated. The Everyman's edition is the easiest to use, as all the footnotes and glosses are complete and easily accessible on the same page with the text, not in back as with other editions. This edition is hardbound yet affordable and will last several lifetimes.<br /><br />If there were ever a \\"desert island book,\\" Chaucer's Canterbury Tales is it. His story-telling ability is without parallel, and his poetry is magnificent, even better than Shakespeare, which, of course, is not a completely fair comparison, since Middle English is a more musical language than Modern English. Compare, for example, the sound of Italian to the sound of modern English, and you'll know what I'm talking about. Check out, for starters, the Pardoner's Prologue and Tale (the basis for Bogart's Treasure of the Sierra Madre), the Nun's Priest's Tale, and the incomparable Wife of Bath's Prologue and Tale. Chaucer's Tales cover a wide tonal range, from hilarious farce, to mock-heroic, satirical, bawdy, to horrific, autobiographical, to High Chivalric and so on. Together they form a literary encyclopedia of Medieval life, history, and culture.<br /><br />Note: Amazon rather confusingly lumps together all the Canterbury Tales reviews for translations, partial editions, and etc.	2005-06-24
US	53015768	R2QC10N66RRYVG	1581343167	641355416	The Holy Bible: English Standard Version (Red Letter Edition)	Books	2	15	18	N	N	onion skin paper	What I like: a good translation, cross references on each page, and a concordance in back. What I don't like: the paper is so thin you can see through to the next page--very distracting when you're reading. Why can't they use decent quality paper?	2005-06-13
US	53015768	R3J07WH1A68EC9	0897215001	167250634	Complete Guide to Trees & Shrubs	Books	5	19	19	N	N	detailed and useful	This is an excellent guide to selecting and planting trees and shrubs. It tells you the required climate and soil conditions, which trees and shrubs will grow in your area. It has a very detailed guide to pruning also. There are also some good suggestions for planning and designing your yard. I like how it refers to plants by the common names as well as the latin names; it makes it a lot easier to find what you're looking for. I'm no expert, but it seems pretty complete. It certainly covers all the trees and shrubs available at my local nurseries.	2005-05-24
US	53015768	ROYOYEV44CNGN	0631218785	938891635	A Companion to Shakespeare	Books	3	2	4	N	N	good but not great	There are a few excellent essays here, including George Wright's on  Shakespeare's verse, David Daniell's on the English Bible, and Norman Jones' fine overview of English history during Shakespeare's life. But overall the writing here tends to be rather technical and flat. Many of the essays are so over-specialized in content that they do little or nothing to illuminate Shakespeare's works, which is after all the purpose of this volume.	2005-05-20
US	53015768	R1MZ4OGWUJ3CWX	0321272501	533010004	The Necessary Shakespeare, 2nd Edition	Books	5	28	33	N	N	More Politically Correct?	This is an excellent alternative to THE COMPLETE SHAKESPEARE edited by Bevington. It has all the major plays that are likely to be taught in a college course, except for Henry IV part 2. The footnotes are easily accessible, and will answer almost any question you have about Shakespeare's language, while remaining concise and not overlong and pedantic. The introductions are marvelous, discussing the most important issues of interpretation, as well as the critical history and stage and even recent movie versions. The general introductory essays are also wonderful, introducing students to Shakespeare's life and time, the historical, social, and political context, as well as the drama and theater of the era. There are also some nice color illustrations from Renaissance England.<br /><br />The \\"introductions\\" to individual plays in this edition have been revised and updated, in part because, Bevington explains, \\"Introductory essays need to be open to recent as well as more traditional critical approaches.\\" Readers might well be afeared that Bevington has revised his introductions to be more \\"politically correct,\\" as the review below suggests. I decided to test this hypothesis by comparing and contrasting 4 revised introductions with the originals. 12th Night: Bevington's revised introduction gives more attention to possible homosexual suggestions in the play, and \\"the socially constructed nature of sexual difference\\" (192). Yet even in the discussion of a possible homosexual love between Sebastian and Antonio, Bevington warns us that \\"expressions of warmth between men seem to have been more common in Elizabethan times than today\\" (192). Homophobia is a modern fear. Bevington's revisions in this case actually seem completely justified and balanced. The revised Hamlet introduction adds a valuable discussion of recent stage and film versions, but is otherwise the same. Macbeth adds a substantial and valuable paragraph on the contemporary English political context of the play, and a discussion of stage and film versions. Tempest, a new paragraph on Shakespeare's language, and a discussion of stage and film versions. Based on these four examples, I would conclude that Bevington's revisions here add substantially to the value of this edition, and do NOT succumb to the imperatives of political correctness or post-modernism.<br /><br />Buy this edition if you're on a budget, or THE COMPLETE WORKS OF SHAKESPEARE, also edited by Bevington, if you can afford it. They are the best!discussion of stage and film versions. Tempest, a new paragraph on Shakespeare's language, and a discussion of stage and film versions. Based on these four examples, I would conclude that Bevington's revisions here add substantially to the value of this edition, and do NOT succumb to the imperatives of political correctness or post-modernism.     Buy this edition if you're on a budget, or THE COMPLETE WORKS OF SHAKESPEARE, also edited by Bevington, if you can afford it. They are the best!	2005-05-10
US	53015768	R2ZXPW9QECEEE2	0231102437	790014431	A New History of Early English Drama (World Bank Comparative Macroeconomic)	Books	4	10	13	N	N	A mixed bag	In this collection of essays each author strives to give a \\"new\\" or revisionist account of his or her subject matter. As with most essay collections, the results range from the sublime to the ridiculous. There are some valuable essays here, notably Peter Blayney's essay on \\"The Publication of Playbooks,\\" which should be required reading for all teachers of Shakespeare. Blayney corrects the notions (1) that acting companies resisted the publication of their plays, (2) that the plays were \\"stolen\\" by sundry rogues and scoundrels, and (3) published at great profit. On the contrary, the acting companies, including Shakespeare, willingly sold scripts to publishers--for publicity--and there was precious little money to be made in publishing these playbooks, which mostly lost money, with a few exceptions. Other valuable essays include \\"Theater and Religious Culture\\" by Paul Whitfield White, \\"The Theater and Literary Culture\\" by Barbara Mowat, \\"Censorship\\" by Richard Dutton, \\"The Revision of Scripts\\" by Eric Rasmussen, and \\"The Repertory\\" by Roslyn Knutson. Most of the other essays will be of interest to micro-specialists only. There is also one very silly essay on \\"Playwriting\\" by Jeffrey Masten, in which we learn that \\"seventeenth-century authors did not exist\\" (369)--which is actually a metaphysical statement of faith in the dogma of poststructuralism, and not an argument. I would recommend getting this book from the library and reading the essays of interest to you.	2005-05-09
US	53015768	R1KDXRZSBEOS7A	0472065521	636317918	The Tremulous Private Body: Essays on Subjection (The Body, In Theory: Histories of Cultural Materialism)	Books	1	11	15	N	N	Very interesting, but . . .	It takes a very clever person to write a book this stupid. There is no real argument here, just a string of hyperbolic and oracular assertions. If we try charitably to reconstruct his argument, we come up with something like: *In Pepys' Diary we find represented a private and interiorized sense of self. Shakespeare is not Pepys. Therefore there is no representation of a private self in Shakespeare's plays.* As they say in logic, the undistributed middle is glaring. All Hamlet's talk of \\"having that within which passeth show\\" is explained away as gestures toward that which does not yet exist. At the heart of Hamlet's mystery is . . . \\"nothing\\" (37). And not just Hamlet, but Renaissance England as a whole does not have any concept of a private self, according to Barker! He completely ignores an enormous body of evidence that contradicts his thesis. Renaissance/medieval confessional literature, spiritual autobiography, lyric poetry, etc. etc. etc. -all simply disregarded. His writing is so bad that it would be laughable if not that people actually take this nonsense seriously.<br /><br />For example, Barker writes, \\"The split subject is designed at an abject inner distance from itself and from the ambivalent supplementary body which has been exiled, in one of its aspects, from the interior consistency of the subject's discourse to a ghostly, insubstantial place at the margins, and in its other phase, to a location outside discourse as one amongst its objects in the world\\" (67).<br /><br />Notice the passive voice: who, pray God, has designed such a diabolical \\"split subject\\"?<br /><br />There are important cultural differences between the early and late seventeenth century, but Barker comes nowhere near to identifying those differences.	2005-04-21
US	53015768	R1J6VJ54QKW6BY	0521822556	379159148	Shakespeare as Literary Dramatist	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A revolution in Shakespeare studies!	This book has totally changed the way I think about Shakespeare. Erne absolutely demolishes an entire tradition of Shakespeare scholarship: i.e.,that Shakespeare wrote only for the stage and did not care about the publication or literary afterlife of his plays. Erne reminds us that Renaissance stage performances were approximately 2 hours long, 2 ½ at most. And even at performance speeds far exceeding modern standards, the maximum number of lines that could be acted in 2 ½ hours is 2500. Yet no less than 28 out of Shakespeare's 37 plays are over 2700 lines! Why did Shakespeare write such long plays that could not be acted on the stage? Erne argues convincingly that he wrote the long versions for publication and then abridged them for stage performance. The so-called \\"bad quartos\\" of Hamlet, Romeo and Juliet, and Henry V represent acting versions of the longer folio versions. The quarto versions of the plays were published by Shakespeare and the acting company; they were not stolen by spectators with notebooks, or reconstructed later by actors. Likewise, Erne argues that Shakespeare himself planned the folio text, even though he never lived to see it through to publication. In sum, Shakespeare was self-conscious literary artist, well aware of the literary value of his plays, who wrote his plays both as literature to be read and as scripts to be performed.	2005-03-25
US	53015768	R1LN48F1XQV7WW	0674780299	96108605	The Ruin of Kasch	Books	5	34	34	N	N	Brilliant meditation on Modernity	Calasso is one of the greatest modern writers, and his work defies all generic conventions: a fascinating blend of history, poetry, scholarship, and philosophy. The era of great artists and masterpieces has perhaps passed, but there is still room for a genius like Calasso to write this postmodern pastiche. This work is a profound meditation on modernity, which he considers as beginning with the French Revolution. He considers the history of the French Revolution and its aftermath, and especially the role of Tallyrand, whom Calasso find fascinating for many reasons. Beyond the French Revolution, however, Calasso ranges far and wide, from Max Stirner to Marx to Nietzsche to Dostoevsky to Melville and even back to Hindu mythology. The coherency of this book is at the level of poetry or an epic novel such as Moby Dick, not at the level of logical argument. Those looking for a tightly focused argument or linear history should go elsewhere; those capable of appreciating a poetic and philosophic historically-informed mediation on the problem of our identity as moderns will read and savor this unique performance.	2005-03-16
US	53015768	R2Z8DS6JIQ5XMQ	0631208038	873374474	Renaissance Drama: An Anthology of Plays and Entertainments (Blackwell Anthologies)	Books	2	7	8	N	N	Limited Selection--Incomplete	This anthology comes off rather badly in comparison to ENGLISH RENAISSANCE DRAMA: A NORTON ANTHOLOGY edited by David Bevington. Missing in action are Tamburlaine and The Jew of Malta by Marlowe, The Tragedy of Mariam by Elizabeth Cary, The Alchemist by Ben Jonson, The Maid's Tragedy by Beaumont and Fletcher, The Roaring Girl by Middleton and Dekker, Women Beware Women by Middleton, and The White Devil by Webster--classic works all.	2005-03-01
US	53015768	R3SXQJ4QLOIP9E	0395290317	321044664	The Riverside Chaucer	Books	3	29	41	N	N	Complete but not convenient	If you want a complete edition of Chaucer's works, this is the only one available. And there's no question of Chaucer's greatness. His language is arguably more beautiful than Shakespeare's, if only because Middle English is a more musical language than modern English. But you need good footnotes for Chaucer; here we have a glossary at the back, a set of textual notes in a separate appendix, and footnotes--so there are three different places that you have to go to for questions about Chaucer's language! A major editing blunder. In addition, there are no color images of Chaucer, and only one black and white image.	2005-02-26
US	53015768	R1EXSAEZRHVSI4	0375421904	297408294	Shakespeare After All	Books	4	210	225	N	Y	Insightful and complete	I bought this book on the strength of Marjorie Garber's excellent past Renaissance scholarship. I was expecting something more theoretically informed and original, but as it is this is a very worthwhile book, and I predict it will be an essential reference book for teachers and students. It's a BIG book with a substantial chapter on each play (but not the sonnets), as with Harold Bloom's book on Shakespeare. Garber, however, is less idiosyncratic than Bloom; She synthesizes the best of recent scholarship, but without footnotes or extensive theorizing a la Derrida and Lacan. Garber combines close attention to language with valuable historical background and context. For example, in her chapter on Macbeth, she relates a \\"new critical\\" analysis of the clothing imagery to  sumptuary laws regarding clothing (laws which served to enforce the social hierachy of Renaissance England). The strengths of this book are her comprehensive discussions of the play, which sum up what we know for sure about the plays including the relevant historical contexts, and her brilliant analysis of Shakespeare's language, i.e., close reading. While her work is illuminated by recent scholarship, she avoids the Stalinesque imperatives of political correctness. Compare Garber's intelligent discussion of the problem of gender in Macbeth with Stephen Orgel's \\"introduction\\" in The Complete Pelican Shakespeare, in which he reductively reads the play as a \\"misogynist fantasy.\\" The only reason I docked the book one star is that, based on the chapters I've read so far, she doesn't really make a  major original contribution to Shakespeare studies (in contrast to, for example, Greenblatt's recent bio of Shakespeare, Will in the World) so much as synthesize what we already know. All in all, a very valuable reference book that I will be consulting regularly in my college teaching. Highly recommended for high school teachers, English majors (undergraduate and graduate), and all fans of Shakespeare.	2005-01-23
US	53015768	R10OD3T41YLOAX	0782141048	688149233	Shooting Digital: Pro Tips for Taking Great Pictures with Your Digital Camera	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	Wonderful guide to advanced techniques	Reading this book will teach you A LOT about how to use advanced features of your digital camera like aperture, focal length, ISO settings, and shutter settings. The author targets those who know a little, but only a little about cameras. Even for the complete novice, this would be a useful book. For those like myself, who have been using cameras for many years, but without any advanced knowledge, this book is perfect. He also goes into depth on photographic techniques for framing shots, catching elusive shots, and taking an ordinary shot and making it into something special. He even has a great little section on taking movies with your camera. Highly recommended! BTW, this book has excellent color photos to illustrate his points.	2004-07-31
US	53015768	R21OK5Z97NMFXB	0312406843	994510449	A Pocket Style Manual	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The best brief style manual available	This grammar handbook is concise and so EASY TO USE! It has all the essential reference information that you need when you are writing an essay or professional letter. Everything is clearly laid out and well-explained. Many grammar books are thick, heavy, and intimidating--filled with information that will never be read. Who wants to read a grammar book? They are for reference, not reading! This is a small paperback with a spiral binding so it lays flat. I teach freshman composition and introduction to literature classes, and I always assign this book to my students. P.S. If you want a small grammar book that you can actually read, check out THE NUTS AND BOLTS OF COLLEGE WRITING by Michael Harvey. I have my students buy both; Hacker for reference, and Harvey to read.	2004-06-27
US	53015768	R1BSDVZYXFQ9CZ	0679642447	828818109	The Age of Shakespeare (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Great Intro for &quot;the very age and body of the time&quot;	This is an excellent and eminently readable introduction to the historical context of Shakespeare's drama. Given the short length, it is amazing how much Kermode packs into this neat little book. I only wish it were available in paperback for my Shakespeare classes!	2004-06-14
US	53015768	R3UP5JRTJVTXO4	186207528X	48678498	Shakespeare Is Hard, But So Is Life: A Radical Guide to Shakespearean Tragedy	Books	2	4	11	N	N	Helpful for undergraduates	O'Toole's historically-based concept of tragedy is a valuable corrective to the artistotelian viewpoint. He sees Renaissance tragedy as reflecting the problematic transition from medieval to early modern in England. His argument is not especially original but still very helpful for undergrads. O'Toole historicizes tragedy, presenting an accessible methodology for undergrads, taking them beyond purely formalistic analysis.	2003-12-05
US	53015768	R3QYM6A9JL2B6B	0312390823	62253608	Mind Readings: An Anthology for Writers	Books	5	4	4	N	N	stands above the crowd	This is one of the best anthologies for teaching writing. It includes sections on animal rights and artificial intelligence, among other good topics. The book allows for good debates on interesting, relevant, and controversial current issues in cognitive science. It avoids the usual hackneyed and trite topics of other anthologies.	2003-12-05
US	53015768	RZRFQAJ9ZI1JW	0142001252	929586931	New Worlds, Lost Worlds: The Rule of the Tudors, 1485-1603	Books	5	4	7	N	Y	makes history fun	Wow! This is a great history of one of the most exciting periods of english history. Brigden does a fantastic job integrating politics, religion, popular culture, discoveries and exploration and so on. She has a natural talent for compelling narrative and detailed description. Buy this book, and you won't be sorry!	2003-09-24
US	53015768	R396EFBSE77KT6	0321012542	420218883	The Complete Works of Shakespeare (4th Edition)	Books	5	34	35	N	N	Best Complete Shakespeare available	Bevington's edition is by far the best Complete Works of Shakespeare available today. Why? First and most important, the footnotes give you just what you need to understand the play and no more. They're complete, concise, and accurate. The formatting of the footnotes also facilitates their accessibility. Second, the introductions to individual plays are marvelous--they get right to the most important critical issues that make reading the plays interesting, without being vague and out-of-date or pedantic, overly concerned with trivial minutiae. Third, the background essays are excellent and up-to-date. The essays on &quot;The Drama Before Shakespeare,&quot; &quot;London Theaters and Dramatic Companies,&quot; &quot;Shakespeare's Life and Work,&quot; and &quot;Shakespeare's Language&quot; are among the best available anywhere, complete and concise, giving you exactly the information that is needed for studying and appreciating Shakespeare in the 21st century, without bogging down in unnecessary details. Consider also Bevington's The Necessary Shakespeare, which uses the same footnotes, introductions, and background essays, but includes fewer plays. It's possible to quibble with some of the editorial decisions, but unless you're writing a Ph.D. dissertation on Shakespeare, students and aficionados will want a good &quot;reading edition&quot; like the Bevington that includes the important variants. If you really want a completely &quot;authentic&quot; 17th century version, folio reproductions are now widely available.	2003-09-13
US	53015768	R27M68E9LWP58W	0393976556	126653104	English Renaissance Drama: A Norton Anthology	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Some great plays here	This is an excellent selection of plays from authors contemporary to Shakespeare. There are some real masterpieces here, such as Women Beware Women and the Maid's Tragedy, that have been unfairly neglected due to the looming presence of Shakespeare. The editing is generally fine, although perhaps a bit overdone. According to the editors, every second line includes a sexual reference. The introductions to individual plays are helpful AFTER you've read the play. For English Majors and scholars, these plays are an unexplored gold mine!!	2003-07-25
US	53015768	R7AHT79BQRZCJ	0521349834	392546367	Shakespeare: Hamlet (Landmarks of World Literature)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Hamlet in a Renaissance context	This is a great introduction to the play within a Reniassance context. The author does an admirable job in reconstructing the historical and literary contexts surrounding Hamlet. For example, the conflict which the play embodies between classical ideals of heroism and Christian skepticism is well-developed. Overall, this is the best place to begin any study of Hamlet, and it may be all you'll need. The language is clear and concise, in contrast to the pompous jargon-laden prose of so many &quot;post-modern'&quot; critics. Well-written, well-argued, well-informed: one of the best works available on this quintessential Renaissance play.	2001-04-28
