US	53027728	R1TGPEX27RNQ2W	1580082505	144963589	Charlie Trotter Cooks at Home	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A must-have for a budding foodie	Despite being a resident of Chicago for four years, I only recently made my pilgrimage to Charlie Trotter's.  Given the high expectations going in, it still amazes me that his restaurant was still able to exceed all of them.<br />However, that dining experience was not my first with Charlie Trotter.  I have owned Charlie Trotter Cooks at Home for over a year and have tried three to four recipes from each section (Starters, Entrees, and Desserts) of his book.  With the book, a person can transport some of the amazing flavors and techniques into the home, yet not to be intimidated.  The ingredient list for each recipe is reasonable since you can find 95% of the ingredients at the local supermarket.  The cooking techniques are simple enough for someone who has comfortably advanced beyond cooking with a microwave.  Each recipe ends with a simple insight offering information about the ingredients, techniques, or substitutions.<br />The recipes offer a solid repertoire which you can cook regularly.  In fact, Trotter includes sample menus and wine pairings.  <br />After getting the recipes down, don't be afraid to experiment because that is what cooking is all about.  Then you will really be able impress your friends.	2003-02-17
US	53027728	R2FM4FR3YBLSIE	1580082505	144963589	Charlie Trotter Cooks at Home	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A must-have for a budding foodie	Despite being a resident of Chicago for four years, I only recently made my pilgrimage to Charlie Trotter's.  Given the high expectations going in, it still amazes me that his restaurant was still able to exceed all of them.<br />However, that dining experience was not my first with Charlie Trotter.  I have owned Charlie Trotter Cooks at Home for over a year and have tried three to four recipes from each section (Starters, Entrees, and Desserts) of his book.  With the book, a person can transport some of the amazing flavors and techniques into the home, yet not to be intimidated.  The ingredient list for each recipe is reasonable since you can find 95% of the ingredients at the local supermarket.  The cooking techniques are simple enough for someone who has comfortably advanced beyond cooking with a microwave.  Each recipe ends with a simple insight offering information about the ingredients, techniques, or substitutions.<br />The recipes offer a solid repertoire which you can cook regularly.  In fact, Trotter includes sample menus and wine pairings.  <br />After getting the recipes down, don't be afraid to experiment because that is what cooking is all about.  Then you will really be able to impress your friends.	2003-02-17
US	53027728	R261RWYR43LY6	078180566X	125555521	Beginner's Chinese (Beginner's (Foreign Language))	Books	4	69	75	N	N	Fine book for beginners	I am a 30-year old ABC (aka American-Born Chinese).  As a result, I have grown up in and have adopted American culture as my own.  In fact, I staunchly maintain that my native tongue and culture are English and American, respectively.  My primary connections to recent immigrants from China and Taiwan are racial and genetic.<br />While I have an decent grasp of the Taiwanese language which is that of my parents, I have barely any grasp of Mandarin Chinese except a word or two.  At the urging of my Cantonese girlfriend, I have recently purchased this book to learn Mandarin which is the predominant dialect in Chinese society.  I have found the book to be well-organized as it builds on the vocabulary and sentence patterns learned in earlier chapters.  Exercises in each chapter provide ample opportunities to use your vocabulary in a variety of ways.  The repetition really helps you get used to the vocabulary and structure.  The Language Points in each chapter explain the rationale for the language's structure.  Fortunately, structure in Chinese is usually simpler than that of English.  Cultural Insights provide information about the people of China and show how language is used to show politeness and respect in certain situations.<br />All that being said, you cannot learn a language simply by picking up a book.  No book will ever get you to pronounce the words correctly or get you comfortable with the language.  No fault of the book but I find pinyin, at times, to be counter-intuitive.  To really excel at the language, you have to hear and listen to it.  Fortunately, my girlfriend is a living, breathing language lab.  I also suggest practicing a little bit each day otherwise you will rapidly slip back down the learning curve.	2003-02-01
US	53027728	R2PZDXC5ZF195T	0375708111	458870497	The Elegant Universe: Superstrings, Hidden Dimensions, and the Quest for the Ultimate Theory	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A review by a physics dummy	I was one of many people who owned Hawking's A Brief History of Time but never read it.  I recently re-discovered the Hawking book and actually read through the whole thing.  While I am no expert in the field of theoretical physics, I found the ideas presented in that book to be thoroughly fascinating.<br />So I decided to take a chance on another highly touted book on theoretical physics.  I bought Brian Green's The Elegant Universe.  If I only read the first five chapters, the purchase would have been justified.  I think they ought to be mandatory reading for anyone taking introductory physics at the university level.  They provide excellent context for what modern physics is all about and generate interest for the subject matter.     In these 100+ pages, he outlines the critical discoveries of general relativity and quantum mechanics.  Through detailed examples he describes how to think about them, and discusses their impacts on theoretical physics in the 20th century.<br />He then drops the bomb on these beautiful theories.  They are wrong as they are currently conceived.  Greene and other physicists are busy reconciling the inconsistencies between these theories under an emerging field call superstring theory (aka string theory) in attempt to create a theory of everything (TOE).  Superstring theory alters how we conceive our universe.  Still the theory is incomplete.  Physicists have not been able to solve the complex mathematics behind it.  To date, they have relied on mathematical approximations.  Nor have they been able to generate the empirical evidence that would support superstring theory.  Physicists would need massive particle accelerators (or to find particles that would last been created by the energies of our universe's creation).<br />Overall, I think I have been truly awed by how close we may have come to discovering the true nature of our universe (and perhaps come closer to knowing God).	2003-01-18
US	53027728	R21ZWNZUXJK8DJ	038549565X	161920063	Ghost Soldiers: The Epic Account of World War II's Greatest Rescue Mission	Books	4	14	19	N	N	Interesting historical narrative	Admittedly, Ghost Soldiers is not typical reading material for me.  I tned to read financial non-fiction or fiction.  However, I was handed the book recently prior to a trip to the airport.  After a quick hour in the lounge and a few in the air, I had found myself through most of the book.<br />The author sets up the situation in a prologue with a survey of the history of Japanese occupation of the Phillipines and the conditions (i.e. starvation, disease) and treatment (i.e. mental and physical tortures) which American POWs faced as captives.  In the waning days of the war, the Japanese out of desperation committed atrocities by executing POWs with the war lost and the POWs usefulness diminished.  A few POWs managed to escape to tell their horrific tales that sets the US Rangers up for their valiant rescue mission - the 1st Ranger mission in the Pacific theater.<br />After the prologue, the remainder of the book is broken up into essentially two stories that eventually merge.  The odd chapters provide a narrative on the early war in the Phillipines with the eventual surrender, the Bataan death march, and life as a POW in a Japanese prisoner camp.  The even chapters provide a narrative on the selection of the Ranger team and the planning and execution of their mission.<br />Overall, I found the book entertaining and informatigve, but I must admit that I was far more interested in the Rangers story line than the POWs' experience.  It was far more exciting and uplifting to read about the mission planning and execution.	2002-12-27
US	53027728	ROMYQXBUJSLL2	158648138X	14000679	Pipe Dreams: Greed, Ego, and the Death of Enron	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Last in a series of reviews	This will be my third and final online review of an Enron-related book (barring any oustanding new releases on the subject).  As with all previous efforts, I remain anonymous since I was an employee of the company during the mid 90s and would like to avoid any attention which my efforts may draw.  Having read the Cruver, Fox, the Bryce/Ivins books and reflected on all the events, this review may feel more like a commentary than an actual review. <br />That being said I think the common thread throughout all the books is that Enron remains an enigma.  Everyone defines Enron differently depending on their perspective and that is affected by the information they have in hand.  For some this is an indictment on greed in America.  For others this is a monumental failure of governmental oversight and regulation.  I believe in neither.  In a recent conversation with another former Enron employee, he asked me to allocate 10 points towards the contributing factors of Enron's demise. I don't even recall how I allocated the points and would probably give a completely different answer today.  His answer differed significantly from mine as he assigned the majority of the blame to accounting systems and Arthur Anderson.  That is endemic of the ever-shifting nature of the situation, and to be honest, events still remain to unfold.  Fastow has been indicted, but what is happening with Lay, Skilling, and the other senior managers and board members?  If story ends here, the only lesson that will be learned from Enron is that it's probably worth the risk to create an unsustainable, poorly-capitalized business model (and discounting the possibility of fraud to cover up that fact) if you can walk away with hundreds of millions of dollars in stocks and options.<br />The Bryce/Ivins book focuses largely on the corporate culture of the Enron as being the culprit.  An early conversation with a fast-talking, mid-30s, Lexus-driving former employee, led the authors to the thesis that Enron wasa product of its deal-making, wheeling-and-dealing culture.   They support that thesis by analyzing the beginnings of the company, the key players, and the many questionable transactions.  Perhaps, my telephone conversation triggered it, but the discussion with my friend made me take more notice of the chapter on the Performance Review Committee (PRC) which is discussed in detail in this book (and in the other books).  During the PRC, all employees are forced ranked 1 to 5 under a secretive, Byzantine process.  The authors contend that the process created and championed by Skilling is largely responsible for the corporate culture at Enron.  It rewarded the dealmakers who brought in the dollars.  Combined with the emphasis on current quarterly and annual income that is often marked-to-market, it is no surprise why the environment was ripe for entering into bad transactions (i.e. negative NPV or cash flow but high current MTM income) which ultimately needed to be covered up with off-balance sheet shennanigans.  <br />Like a dimaond under the proper magnification, I think all readers will find some fault with the books about Enron including this one.  However, the book provides a contribution worthy of being part of the literature on the subject.	2002-11-26
US	53027728	R3H5IIOHN5OSG2	0471237604	670945541	Enron: The Rise and Fall	Books	4	23	23	N	N	Better than the Cruver book	I am a former Enron employee from the mid-1990s.  I do not hold any bitter or bad feelings from my exeperience there and firmly believe that I have benefitted from the experience.  I have also previously read and reviewed the Cruver book stating that there would be other books giving a better perspective of the issues.  Loren Fox's Enron: The Rise and Fall is one of those books.<br />Like a good non-fiction business writer, Fox takes a global approach in helping the reader understand what happened at Enron.  He immediately lays out the working thesis that the collapse of Enron was symptomatic of the corporate culture at Enron but also reflective of the business environment at-large throughout the eighties and nineties.  Even with this viewpoint in mind, he too acknowledges that he lacks all the answers because many of the outcomes from Enron's collapse are still in flux (e.g. Will Fastow go to jail?  Will Lay and Skilling get indicted) and the ultimate impacts on corporate America are unclear (e.g. Where is Sbarnes-Oxley taking us?).  <br />To support his thesis, Fox presents a well-researched book presenting the key players in the evolution of the energy giant.  He provides the background information on the deregulation of the natural gas industry that led to the formation of Enron.  He anlayzed the dueling business strategies of ECT and EI run by Skilling and Mark.  With Skilling winning the political infighting, the off-balance sheet shennanigans became more important to obtaining the capital needed to support his grandiose visions.  That is where Fastow and Kopper come in.  Relative to other journalists including Pulitzer Prize winner Rebecca Smith, Fox better understands and explains the nature of the off-balance sheet transactions (e.g. often a form of Islamic financing but also more complex structures) created by these two but always adding color to story with his inside look at the key personalities (e.g. Kaminski saying, &quot;This is so terminally stupid only Fastow could come up with it.&quot;).  <br />It is obvious that Fox has had access and discussions with some very senior managers at Enron in completing this project.  Despite that, it still feels as if he has only gotten part of the story.  Still I must commend him for the best effort to date.	2002-11-18
US	53027728	R3KN7LG6QE3NWT	0060012781	86601151	A Cook's Tour: Global Adventures in Extreme Cuisines	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Get behind the scenes	Tony Bourdain capitalized on the tremendous success of \\"Kitchen Confidential\\", an insider's look into the restaurant industry, with a devilishly interesting follow-up.  The proposal to his publisher was simple enough.  Tony would travel around the world in search of the \\"perfect\\" meal.  A great excuse for him to leave the hot and sweaty world of his kitchens for a year.  His search would lead him to exotic locales around the world and allow him to taste the simple (e.g. food of Puebla, Mexico birthplace of many in his kitchen staff), extreme (e.g. boiled fetal duck egg and pulsating Cobra heart), and over-the-top (e.g. 20 course meal at the French Laundry).  In the process, he admits he sold his soul to the devil to get this project done as he traveled with two cameramen who would capture his adventures for the TV Food Network.<br />The book is an excellent companion to the television series offering behind-the-scene looks at adventures that obviously got left on the cutting room floor.  Since Tony is quite a scamp, there are many anecdotes too violent or too disturbing for the average viewer of Emeril Live.  He is also better able to articulate what he was observing and more importantly thinking at the time of his adventure.  This is something that is difficult to do on video even with voiceover.	2002-11-15
US	53027728	R35EWSTLXEDGF6	0812235150	507358890	Building America's First University: An Historical and Architectural Guide to the University of Pennsylvania	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Hurrah for the Red and the Blue!	I guess it helps being an extremely old (the actual founding date is debated and discussed within the book) Ivy League university to get your very own historical and architectural guide published.  <br />Part I of the book follows the development of the University from its initial charter through to its march to modern times.  Speaking as an alumnus of Penn, I always though the University had an exceptionally beautiful campus, but its rich history was virtually unknown to me.  This book makes it clear that the plan for institutional growth required the Deans, Trustees, and other campus leaders engage in detailed campus architectural planning - where, what, and how?.  Only now can I appreciate the decisions and compromises made that are reflected by the campus architecture.  The authors use the epilogue to address some of the myths that campus students have spread and continue to perpetuate.  <br />Part II of the book is a detailed review (North, South, East, West, and Central campus) of the current structures on the campus.  Each building gets its own entry detailing its address, date of construction, purpose, and accompanying photo.   <br />The book is chock full of diagrams, illustrations, and photographs showing the campus and the movers and shakers that shaped it.  <br />This is the perfect coffee table book for graduates of The University of Pennsylvania.	2002-10-28
US	53027728	R3G9BGELZQ0ND5	0671723650	132993260	How to Win Friends & Influence People	Books	2	13	26	N	N	A "Classic" Despised	I was recommended this book by a fellow professional as a must-read.  His boss was a strong believer in the theories presented in this book and found it useful to read and re-read this book.  In fact, I am probably the target market for this book as a person who needs to develop his social interaction skills and leadership style.<br />While I find the study of influence and leadership fascinating, I am not interested in this book.  I found this book to be extremely annoying.  The book is essentially a string of anecdotes that the author uses to illustrate his points - techniques for managing people, getting people to like you, influencing people, and being a leader.  There really aren't any facts behind the material.  You either take to it or you don't.<br />In this field of study, I personally enjoyed Cialdini's Influence: Science and Practice much more.  It offers a better balance between the academic/scientific evidence and anecdotes which illustrates the principle.	2002-10-27
US	53027728	R36DE6EUXH1PDV	1585670383	796392396	Way to Victory: Annotated Book of Five Rings	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Excellent book on the way of the samurai	This is a translation of The Book of Five Rings.  The Book of Five Rings is samurai warrior Miyamoto Musashi's treatise on sword combat and strategy.  The translator's explanations of the samurai code of feudal Japan and commentary that analyzes the writings in the context of modern times are extremely helpful to the modern reader.  <br />The most important section of the book may be volume 3 (Fire) where Musashi reflects on achieving victory in battle.  To achieve victory one must be prepared psychologically and mentally.  For him that meant he was prepared to literally face death at any time.  There are no \\"do-overs\\" in samurai sword fighting.	2002-10-27
US	53027728	RZHCBKVVWZ8UB	0446676950	487605353	Monkey Business: Swinging Through the Wall Street Jungle	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Must read before you consider a career in I-banking	Written by John Rolfe and Peter Troob, the book recounts their journey from MBA school (Wharton and HBS) to Wall Street.  Rolfe is the career switcher jumping to investment banking and Troob is the former Kidder Peabody analyst returning because he didn't want to be a consultant and couldn't get a job in private equity.  While their interview processes were divergent, their lives ultimately converge with their summer intership at Donaldson Lufkin Jenrette (now merged with Credit Suisse First Boston), securing a full-time job offer, and finally finding redemption in the world of hedge funds.<br /><br />This is a must-read for anyone seriously thinking about investment banking as a career.  This book will help job candidates understand the process for getting hired (e.g. culture and fit) and the mascochism that is involved once employed (e.g. late nights, no social life unless strip clubs count) for what is ultimately \\"monkey work\\".  Associates are paid ridiculous amounts for that does not require reason and/or creativity and for the heaps of abuse piled on from the vice presidents and managing directors.  While this book obviously focuses on life at DLJ in the 90s, this book is in my opinion a fairly accurate portrayal of life at all investment banks no matter what insiders at other firms may say...<br />Stylistically, the authors take turn writing about their experiences and though with different fonts allowing the reader to easily differentiate the author's thoughts.  This is useful in helping you understand which author is offer his thoughts.  Overall, it is written in the colloquial manner typical of a men's locker room conversation.  Expect numerous references to bodily functions (e.g. farting, defecation) and sex...	2002-10-27
US	53027728	RL2WKHH9RN0SN	0609607758	680905609	The Babbo Cookbook	Books	5	22	25	N	N	More than a cookbook	Mario Batali's Babbo Cookbook is no mere cookbook.  While delivering the recipes that have been developed and presented at his Village restuarant, it's through Mario's brief pre-chapter and pre-recipe writings where he lovingly conveys his passion for Italian food and cooking.  His core passion is for fresh ingredients in simple (unlike the French) yet tasty preparations.  He cannot stress enough how important it is to have relationships with the local baker, butcher, fishmongerer, grocer, etc. to insure the delivery of the best quality ingredients.  He stresses the use of ingredients that are in-season to maximize the taste and appeal to the senses.  His passion extends to the presentation and delivery of food.  Simple suggestions in the cookbook include priming the wine glass before serving fine wines.    <br />This book is a superb addition to any cook's collection.	2002-10-25
US	53027728	R1PH07GEZEKGT5	0971865906	291676723	A Reader's Manifesto: An Attack on the Growing Pretentiousness in American Literary Prose	Books	5	12	16	N	N	Wish I had this in lit class	B.R. Myers' A Reader's Manifesto is an extended version of an article first published in The Atlantic Monthly a year ago.  In the original article and through this book, the author attacks the foundation of literary criticism which bestows upon certain authors rave reviews for &quot;serious fiction&quot; when he believes them to just be examples of very bad writing.  <br />Myers offers up five examples of bad writing produced by some of the most critically acclaimed authors of contemporary fiction - Annie Proulx, Don DeLillo, Cormac McCarty, Paul Auster, and David Gusterson.  He takes these authors to task for long sentences, repetitiveness (a.k.a. shopping-list sytle of writing), overloading on the imagery through metaphors and similies, and nonsensical equivocations on trivial issues.  The point is made through analysis of numerous writings excerpted at length.  The author takes pains to often include excerpts cited by critics as masterworks, <br />After studying these excerpts and Myers' arguments, I understand and generally agree with his viewpoint.  To potential skeptics, don't misinterpret this book as purely a criticism of style.  The book primarily argues against using style as a novelty for its own sake and champions using it effectively in conveying ideas - an apparently unique concept.	2002-10-06
US	53027728	R111GDNYBXYN6F	0786710934	44968230	Anatomy of Greed: The Unshredded Truth from an Enron Insider	Books	3	13	16	N	N	Review from  a former Enron employee	To provide some context, I worked at Enron for four years through a substantial portion of the company's transformation from being a North American pipeline company into the world's leading energy company.  While at Enron I worked on deal orgination teams and eventually landed a spot on the infamous energy trading floor(s) as a trader. <br />Brian Cruvee admits that his book isn't the definitive Enron book.  This book is a collection of anecdotes and personal observations on the culture of Enron.  It is a highly credible and interesting story, but ultimately it is incomplete. <br />Brian worked at Enron for less than a year, and in a non-core start-up operation.  He offers a few funny stories and fleeting glimpses into the core problems (e.g. his conversation with an analyst in the RAC group, possible fraud at EES), but mostly the cupboard is bare.  Throughout the book, he demonstrates that he is merely a cog in a machine but he can't even describe what the machine is or is doing.  Early on, his Wall Street analyst friend quizzed him about Azurix, broadband, and international strategy, but all he can say is that is not his business and everything will be fine.  Perhaps, that attitude among employees is one reason why the company came toppling down on itself.   <br />Nor was he exposed to any of the major principals that you see in the financial press (unless you count running into Andy Fastow at Cafe Japon a major incident).  Most of his anecdotes about the principals (Lay, Skilling, etc.) are drawn from the gossip/rumor mill.  He does have interactions with an unnamed senior executive, but those conversations merely confirm what we all know - something is wrong.<br />With respect to the annoucements that led to the exposure of accounting regularities due to LJM and other partnerships, he threads them into the story with brief explanations.  The explanations are useful to the layperson who hasn't read the Wall Street Journal, but that's about it.<br />Despite the overall negative tone of the review, I do credit Brian with publishing the first Enron book that I found worthy of purchasing.  I consider this book to be an interesting autobiography, but it definitely isn't the definitive investigation into Enron.  It might not even be the definitive book on Enron's culture.  Perhaps I should take up my pen.	2002-09-25
US	53027728	R3OPJ9ODEG2S4T	0312284195	495145095	Super-Cannes: A Novel	Books	5	12	14	N	N	A glimpse of the near-future now	Repeating his previous effort Cocaine Nights (also outstanding), JG Ballard once again uses the mystery-thriller structure to engage us in his deep thoughts about a society where people are obsessed with working 7-days a week for 16-hours per day with the drive for corporate profits a transcendent virtue.  <br />When Paul Sinclair follows his wife Jane to Eden-Olympia, Paul is plunged into a mystery which no one seems eager to solve. Located near Cannes, Eden-Olympia offers multinational corporations a high-tech tax haven with temperate weather similar to Northern California's Silicon Valley.  Busy executives live in crime and sickness-free enclaves leading extremely productive lives.  Everything seems perfect except for the shocking mass murder recently committed by Dr. Greenwood, the pediatrician whom Jane is replacing.  While Paul recovers from his injuries, he plunges head-first into discovering the motives and possible conspiracies behind Dr. Greenwood's murders.    <br />Many literary critics consider Ballard to be a science-fiction writer.  More accurately, I consider Ballard a futurist capable of offering a glimpse of the near-future which our society and culture may be headed for.  In Ballard's Eden-Olympia there is \\"an inability to rest the mind, to find time for rest and relaxation\\".  The only prescription offered is \\"small doses of insanity\\" taking the form of robberies, rapes (and other fetishes), drugs, and kiddie porn.<br />If Ballard is correct in his bleak vision, is it not unsurprising that the captains of industry - Welch, Koslowski, Skilling - all decided to play God (to one extent or another)?  Going \\"a little mad\\" with adulterous affairs, grand larceny, and other felonious activities may have been the only way of staying sane in an unforgiving world demanding performance.	2002-09-22
US	53027728	RYDP5C4TTRNMR	0130870528	412110289	The Choice: A Fable of Free Trade and Protectionism Updated Edition	Books	4	4	6	N	N	An economic fable	Prof. Roberts, an economics professor, has created series on interesting little novels to teach his readers about libertarian economic thought.<br />In The Choice, Roberts borrows from Capra's &quot;It's A Wonderful Life&quot; to introduce his protagonist Ed Johnson to alternate worlds where free trade does and does not exist.  Instead of Clarence the Angel, Ed is led around by David Ricardo, the economist who developed the Law of Comparative Advantages, which forms the foundations for supporting global free trade.<br />Throughout the novel, Ed raises questions based on his traditional thinking on protectionsim. Ricardo addresses each key concern in turn.  The concepts debated include: loss of jobs, loss of our nation's economic status, national security needs, etc.  More importantly, Ricardo convinvingly makes the point that total national economic self-sufficiency is a recipe for economic disaster/failure.<br />I found this to be an entertaining way to learn more about the debate on free trade and protectionism.  This novel is easily more enjoyable than the typical economics text or article, and hence its message was delivered more effectively.	2002-09-21
US	53027728	R3M7O8Y70OZNQS	0321011473	978667155	Influence: Science and Practice (4th Edition)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	The book on influence	Cialdini is an expert in the field of influence.  The book is a comprehensive study on the psychology of influence.  It is a indispensible tool for professionals involved in sales and marketing and negotiations, but it has practical applications for everyday social intereactions as well.<br />Cialdini explains techniques (aka weapons of infleunce) that can be used to gain compliance from others.  These techniques are drawn from real-life situations.  While he constantly cites academic sources and laboratory experiments, the book remains accessible to the casual, non-academic reader.  Illustrations, cartoons, and &quot;reader's reports&quot; are sprinkled throughout which helps the book stay firmly grounded in practicality.  The study questions at the end of the chapter help to pull each chapter's ideas together.<br />To critics of the book many of the ideas presented are seen as common sense, but I really think that everyone can benefit from reading this book.	2002-09-17
US	53027728	R2ACSK9B1WB8KH	0691090866	784732871	Hubbert's Peak: The Impending World Oil Shortage	Books	4	6	8	N	N	A must read for any serious energy analyst	Ken Deffeyes, a colleague of M. King Hubbert, has written a critical book which tells the reader that global oil production will peak in the next decade.  Hubbert, a geophysicist employed at Shell, first predicted in 1956 that US oil production would peak around 1970.  This has come to pass.  Using the same basic analytical methods for global oil production, Deffeyes makes a strong case as to why global oil production will peak in 2004-2009 timeframe.  Certain variables can delay the peak in oil production but the peak is inevitable.  All of this is neatly laid out in Chapter 1 and presented in detail in Chapter 7 &amp; 8.  The remainder of the book is a background in oil exploration and production and some discussion about alternative sources of energy.<br />Far from being an environmentalist or policy wonk, Deffeyes, as an oil professional and academic, has clearly outlined the implications of Hubbert's peak for our hydrocarbon-based society.  Unfortunately, the short-sighted politicians and policymakers in Wasghington will not want to seriously debate this issue.  Instead policies to support America's insatiable hunger for SUV's (and other waste) will continue until an energy supply crisis hits home.	2002-09-12
US	53027728	R1M5VC0MDZ96ES	0609610597	723611342	The Shelters of Stone (Earth's Children, Book 5)	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Only for serious fans of the series	After putting her fans on hold for several years, Jean Auel's The Shelters of Stone delivered a relatively disappointing product.  Again, Auel clearly demonstrates that she has researched the daily lives of early man in stunning detail.  However, this latest book does not deliver anything new or interesting to the reader.  Ayla, her proto-feminist(?) protagonist, does exactly what she has done in previous novels: be kind to children and old people, heal furry critters, question religious, cultural, & scientific norms, and make passionate love with her man.  <br />I can only assume the book is a bridge into the final chapter of the life of Ayla which will in all likelihood bring together her people with those of the Clan.  Save your dollars and get this one from the library.	2002-09-12
US	53027728	R2YVLMTTXZY27T	0932750435	111367642	Elliott Wave Principle: Key to Market Behavior	Books	3	41	55	N	N	Interesting material if you believe in technical analysis	I will avoid a long discussion about stock market efficiency and the efficacy of simple technical analysis, and point you in the direction of Malkiel's A Random Walk Down Wall Street.  I would suggest further readings if you want to delve into the academic debate behind it.<br />That being said Prechters's book offers a basic guide into the fundamentals of Eliiot Wave analysis.  The principles of the analysis are the belief that there is information to be gained from the price action of stocks (e.g. the implict information of transactions by traders) and that there is a natural flow to these price movements (e.g. stocks don't go up in one direction).  <br />In incorporating price information, the belief is that stocks move in a 5-wave impulsive pattern, which can be either bullish (up) or bearish (down).  A 5-wave move is followed by a 3-wave corrective pattern.  Larger cycles are basically an aggregation of many 5- and 3-wave patterns.  If believed to be true, the practical benefit of understanding waves and cycles is that investors can use this information to identify &quot;where&quot; they are in the cycle of a stock's movement. <br />The book follows the basics of identifying waves and cycles with some historical and matehmatical background information.  This is where Pretcher ties the material in with nature.  He believes that waves move in a natural way, which can be described by the Fibonacci sequence and Fibonacci ratios.  He advocates using Fibonnaci ratios to forecast the distance (e.g. percent change) and timing of stock price movements.  I found this material to be the most informative since it provided background reading on Fibonacci numbers which many technical traders employ in the various tools they use.  Now I know what they are talking about.<br />The rest of the book can be skipped.  It is primarily an  application of Elliot Wave to various historical contexts.  Of course, Pretcher draws on examples that fit nicely with the belief that Elliot Wavehas strong predictive abilities.  If I recall correctly, the author does close the book with his predictions for the stock market and did correctly predict a long-term bullish Wave 5 coming out of 1982-83.	2002-07-06
US	53027728	R288L0RJCF5SMA	1556233841	914343219	Super Stocks	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Focuses on PSR as a valuation tool	I was first introduced to Fisher's concept of Super Stocks about 10 years ago.  The idea behind the concept is buying stocks with a low Price-to-Sales Ratio (PSR), typically 1.0 or less.  Simply having a low PSR is not sufficient to be a Super Stock.  The valuation tool is combined with fundamental analysis (e.g. growth, margin analysis, balance sheet analysis, etc.) of companies to identify stocks with favorable characteristics that will make them Super Stocks.  Fisher also introduces a complementery tool Price-to-Research Ratio (PRR) which is a measure of the company's reinvestment rate into growth.   <br />Fisher spends a lot of time discussing how to make money off the &quot;Glitch&quot;.  Basically, he believes that many Super Stocks are stocks that have been hit by a &quot;Glitch&quot;.  A &quot;Glitch&quot; is a temporary setback experienced by a company that makes the out of favor (e.g. product life cycle delay, revenue short-fall, etc.)  This attitude is indicative of his value-orientation in investing.  In other words, his fundamental analysis may find a great stock, but he will wait for a pull-back from a &quot;Glitch&quot; to a more appropriate PSR before investing.<br />Overall, the concept of PSR is not so different from other valuation measures for &quot;low-priced&quot; stocks such as Price-to-Earnings or Price-to-Book.  However, it doesn't hurt to have another tool in the kit.  <br />On a more interesting side-note, Wall Street analysts have definitely not read this book.  It is amusing to note that analysts in the hey-day of the Internet boom touted stocks with PSRs in excess of 10x.  A careful fundamental analysis would have resulted in concluding that the growth, margins, and balance sheets of these companies did not justify such high valuations.  Nothing in the business models indicated superior performance on any dimension.  Even if a business model was found to be superior, prudence would have dictated waiting for a &quot;Glitch&quot;.	2002-07-06
US	53027728	R17RZO127IPM9	0140143459	488185202	Liar's Poker: Rising Through the Wreckage on Wall Street	Books	5	34	38	N	N	Captures the essence of the culture	In Liar's Poker, Michael Lewis writes about his journey in becoming a bond salesman and his two years of work experiences at Salomon Brothers.  While the book does offer some information about the finacial innovations driving the bond business in the 1980s, I think the principle thrust of the book is an examination of the culture and the personalities of Wall Street trading desks.  The first chapter story, which is the basis for the title of the book, involving John Gutfreund and John Meriwether encapsulates the nature of this world.<br />This book is an important read for anyone who thinks they might want to become a trader/salesperson on Wall Street.  If not, it is still a very interesting peek into a world that most people do not understand.<br />My last comment is a minor criticism of Michael Lewis.  Lewis writes in the first person and is obviously a very self-involved individual with an extremely high opinion of himself.  This is more evident in his later writings and columns for various periodicals (e.g. his NY Times article on Long-Term Capital was sickening).  Despite this criticism the book is still very enjoyable.	2002-07-04
US	53027728	R25B71NLEVZ4LJ	0887306675	434310283	The New Market Wizards: Conversations with America's Top Traders	Books	3	27	33	N	N	General insights into successful traders/investors...	Through a series of interviews, Jack Schwager introduces the readers to traders he deems to be Market Wizards.  He talks to people trading in different markets, employing different methodologies, and exhibiting different strengths and weaknesses.  In spite of the differences, Schwager identifies some commonalities.  Schwager sums up the book by offering his takeaways for being a successful trader.  Some of them are quite obvious (e.g. have a passion for trading and examine your reasons for trading, have an edge) while other are more subtle (e.g. match your trading style with your personality, have a method).<br />Having attended a lecture given by him, Schwager will be first to tell you how he had to modify his trading style and methodology to a quantitatively-driven one.  Before the change, he felt that he lacked the discipline to exit his positions subjectively.	2002-07-04
US	53027728	R1DMXL4KQZ49ZJ	0738200417	584188886	Principles For A Free Society: Reconciling Individual Liberty With The Common Good	Books	5	13	15	N	N	A must for every civics class	Richard Epstein, a law professor at The University of Chicago, is more than a legal expert.  He is a scholar and theorist presenting his distinctive libertarian interpretation of the appropriate role of government in a free society.  <br />In each chapter, Epstein discusses a principle of interest to him and to society.  He reviews the balance between the need for personal liberty and common good.  Overwhelmingly, he documents the history of our society as one where changing legal/societal standards have reduced personal liberties.  To illustrate, he uses real examples such as Social Security, zoning, and organ transplants that show how the changes negatively affects peoples' lives.<br />I was most intrigued by Epstein's reasoning in his writings about altruism.  I must admit that I would fall into the pessimistic camp that believes that altruism is usually egoism/self-interest in disguise)  <br />As he notes in the introduction, the book is a collection of his thoughts and essays over his career.  As a result, he does not really tie the thoughts together except for an introduction and epilogue, which emphasize the desire to return to a more laissez-faire society.	2002-07-04
US	53027728	R9BV11BG5CX23	0385720920	729613164	Choke	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Disappointing effort	I've also read Fight Club and Invisible Monsters.  When I picked up Fight Club, I considered it one of the most interesting thought-provoking novels I had read. Invisible Monsters was a disappointment, but I wanted to give Palahniuk the benefit of the doubt.  <br />With Choke, Chuck Palahniuk disappints and rehashes familiar thematic territory.  With his newest protagonist Vincent Mancini, we have another character with an addictive personality who does not fit in with society at-large.  Vincent is placed in series of absurd situations both in the present and through flashbacks into the past.  Finally, Vincent is figuratively reborn into society, accepting life for what it is.  All of this should be very familiar to readers of his previous books.<br />To his credit, Palahniuk is very creative in generating scenes and situations.  As usual, they are quite amusing especially those involve Vincent's insane hippie mother.  Okay for a quick read, but there just isn't enough thought-provoking material in the novel for me to recommend it.	2002-07-01
US	53027728	RP3FOJEGRFL61	0072503661	468856747	Investments + S&P Card + Powerweb + StockTrak discount coupon	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Basic book on investments	I've owned an edition of this book since 1993 when I took an Investments class as an undergraduate at the University of Pennsylvania. Throughout my career, my return to graduate school, and my pursuit of my CFA charter, I have used and seen others using this book,<br />This book is an introductory textbook on investments. To get a deeper understanding about the research that developed the theories and the ongoing debates in academia (e.g. APT, efficient markets hypothesis, behavioral finance), I would suggest reading some of the authors/researchers referenced in the book. Despite this limitation, this is an excellent starting point. The book begins with basic introduction of financial markets and instruments, develops the basic finance toolbox (e.g. basic statistical tools - mean, variance; discounted cash flow), and applies them in a portfolio setting. From this base, it goes on to introduce the most basic financial concepts such as beta, CAPM, diversification, efficient frontier, CAL, etc. These are all the basic tools that are used in portfolio contruction and management. The book extends itself by introducing additional concepts such as derivatives (e.g. futures, options, swaps) which can alter the charateristics of portfolios. As other reviewers have noted and I will agree, these topics are only in a cursory fashion, and I recommend further study on these topics through other texts or papers.<br />Overall, this is a must read (at least as a starting point) for anyone interested in developing knowledge about portfolio theory.  For example, this book would be very helpful for anyone who would like to understand with a more critical eye what the commentators/analysts on CNBC or at the brokerage firms are trying to recommend for their own portfolios.	2002-06-15
US	53027728	RF5695CT6B4OQ	0385495323	440237161	The Code Book: The Science of Secrecy from Ancient Egypt to Quantum Cryptography	Books	4	3	3	N	N	An excellent starting point on the subject	I will be the first to admit that I only have a passing interest in the field of cryptography.  In addition, I am not an expert in any of the related disciplines: mathematics, computer science, linguistics, etc.  However, as a libertarian concerned with the issues of personal liberty and privacy, my curiosity in the subject matter surfaced when I saw this book at the store.<br />With this book, Simon Singh has weaved a captivating account on the importance of and the development of cryptography over time.  He portrays the evolution of the science as a see-saw battle between the code makers and the code breakers.  He drives the point home by introducing key events in history (e.g. execution of Mary Queen of Scots, WWI, WWII) that were severely affected by the security, or lack thereof, of private communications.  He ties these historical events together with explanations and anecdotes on the development of the particular encryption methodologies employed and the weaknesses/obstacles that led to their downfall.  Of special interest, he highlights in his writings the contributions of key figures in the development of crytography that would otherwise be historical footnotes due to the secrecy of their work (e.g. GCHQ's development of modern public key cryptography). <br />In the final section of the book, Singh spends some time speculating on the future direction of cryptography.  If history is any indicator, it is only a matter of time before what is considered &quot;unbreakable&quot; will also be decoded.  Perhaps, it already has...<br />For further reading, Singh has included a comprehensive reading list that covers both the history and science in greater detail.	2002-05-31
US	53027728	R1SLBWDT2GXO79	0671792253	777019112	Class: A Guide Through the American Status System	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Entertaining book on the class system	I first read Paul Fussell's Class in the early 90s and reread it recently.  I find it to be an entertaining examination of the class system in America.  Fussell works from the premise that the egalitarian ideal of a classless society is a myth.  Further, class is not purely conveyed by money and power because status is a function of your upbringing and environment.  You can determine status in everyday life from observing a person's appearance, behavior, likes/dislikes, etc.  It is here where Fussell's razor sharp wit and eye for detail either offends readers (perhaps cutting too close too home), or has them rolling on the floor laughing like myself. <br />My main caveat is that you should not treat this book as a sociological treatise on the class system in America.  While it is well written, organized, and offers Fussell's curmudgeonly witticism, it fails to address any major sociological issue or question.  Fussell is (was?) a Professor of English at the University of Pennsylvania, and thus I am emphasizing the entertainment value of book in my review.   If you would like to examine the sociological implications of class more thoroughly (especially the upper classes), I would suggest that you read the works of Fussell's colleague Prof. E. Digby Baltzell.<br />Overall, I still rate the book 5 stars because it is rare to see a book this well-written.	2002-05-31
US	53027728	R2TIKHDLCHPEV2	0440180201	281014950	Sexual Astrology: A Sign-by-Sign Guide to Your Sensual Stars	Books	5	71	79	N	N	Be amazed by the predictions.	Let me start off the review with the following disclosures.  I am not a believer in astrology.  I do not consult charts, 900 phone numbers, or daily/weekly horoscopes prior to making everyday decisions.  Despite all that, I at least found this book to be highly entertaining. <br />Each chapter of Sexual Astrology is devoted to an astrological sign and details the sexual proclivities of people born under that sign.  It provides advice on making the first move, erogenous zones, and breaking it off.  Finally, the chapter closes with a compatability index indicating the likelihood of a successful short-term and/or long-term relationship with people of other (or the same) signs.     <br />I think my friends and I found this book to be entertaining because of the accuracy of the frank, graphic descriptions (e.g. down to specific deviant sexual acts).  As a non-believer in astrology, I am not sure _why_ the predictions are so spot on, but they are.  One theory I have is that we want to believe in the predictions so we fit the story of our lives to the description, but that is a psychological explanation way beyond the scope of this review.  <br />In any case, this is fun book to read and definitely a conversation starter if you leave it lying on your coffee table or nightstand.	2002-05-31
US	53027728	R26HWF8QZJRMO9	076790477X	708746530	Great Wine Made Simple: Straight Talk from a Master Sommelier	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A simple way to learn about wines	As the title indicates, Andrea Immer makes wine very simple to understand.  Instead of being an encylocpedic reference manual on wine producing regions &amp; other esoterica, she breaks down winetasting into the following simple components and describes them: full body vs. light body, dry vs. sweet, crisp vs. low-acid, oaky vs. no oak, high tannin, vs. low tannin.  To help the reader better understand them, she employs the techinique she uses to train the waiters at the restaurants she's worked at - she has them taste.  Therefore, you are going to be buying and tasting multiple flights of wines.  This may be a plus or minus depending on your point of view.  <br />While the tasting flights are the most useful, she does also provide simple short-cuts to help you determine the character of wine based on characteristics like color and alcohol content and includes a primer on cracking the &quot;code words&quot; that appear on wine labels.	2002-04-29
US	53027728	R2TAOC7W8GJCGP	0609605305	441674081	Blue Ginger: East Meets West Cooking with Ming Tsai	Books	5	7	8	N	N	East meets West	As Ming Tsai likes to put it, his cuisine is all about East meets West. His recipes are grounded by the Chinese influences of his youth. He has taken that and broadened it with his training in various kitchens which taught him \\"traditional\\" Western techniques. The end result is imaginative takes on traditional Eastern (e.g. various \\"dim sum\\", summer rolls, pho) and Western foods (e.g. osso buco, risotto).<br />The book is organized into sections so you can easily design a multi-course meal from first course to dessert. I have tried his Hoisin Marinated Pork and Curry Braised Lamb Shanks. Both are wonderful main courses. He also has numerous excellent sides like Three Onion Cous-Cous and Napa Cabbage Slaw.  My guests have always showered praise for the dishes I have prepared from the cookbook.  For the adventerous, there is section called \\"Over the Top\\" for that magnificent foodie experience.<br />I recommend this book to the serious foodie. You will want/need a well stocked pantry with \\"unusual\\" ingredients like oyster sauce, fish sauce, hoisin sauce, black beans, sambal olek, wasabi, etc. However, you won't be disappointed with the results. My copy is already stained with various sacues/marinades and wrinkled by water.	2002-03-25
US	53027728	R2539YDFURK6CV	0609605305	441674081	Blue Ginger: East Meets West Cooking with Ming Tsai	Books	5	3	3	N	N	East meets West	As Ming Tsai likes to put it, his cuisince is all about East meets West.  His recipes are grounded by the Chinese influences of his youth.  He has taken that and broadened it with his training in various kitchens which taught him &quot;traditional&quot; Western techniques.  The end result is imaginative takes on traditional Eastern (e.g. various &quot;dim sum&quot;, summer rolls, pho) and Western foods (e.g. osso buco, risotto).<br />The book is organized into sections so you can easily design a multi-course meal from first course to dessert.  I have tried his Hoisin Marinated Pork and Curry Braised Lamb Shanks.  Both are wonderful main courses.  He also has numerous excellent sides like Three Onion Cous-Cous and Napa Cabbage Slaw.  For the adventerous, there is section called &quot;Over the Top&quot; for that magnificent foodie experience.<br />I recommend this book to the serious foodie.  You will want/need a well stocked pantry with &quot;unusual&quot; ingredients like oyster sauce, fish sauce, hoisin sauce, black beans, sambal olek, wasabi, etc.  However, you won't be disappointed with the results.  My copy is already stained with various sacues/marinades and wrinkled by water.	2002-03-25
US	53027728	REF77IP5HM5YA	1582341028	615107411	Bone in the Throat	Books	3	33	40	N	N	Mildly entertaining.	The best parts of the book are the semi-autobiographical elements which are probably lifted from the author's career as a chef.  The convuluted plot includes dealings with the mafia, and ends pretty unsatisfactorily.<br />Where the author excels is entertaining the reader with tales about the sex, drugs, and criminal behavior, and he's only talking about the restaurant staff.  He let's us in on the secrets behind how food is delivered to your table at dinner time.<br />For a better look behind the restaurant business, I recommend reading his non-fiction works Kitchen Confidential and A Cook's Tour.	2002-03-21
US	53027728	RLP66RRTTJ81O	0767902904	413616953	Commander's Kitchen: Take Home the True Taste of New Orleans with More Than 150 Recipes from Commander's Palace Restaurant	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Learn about Creole and Cajun cuisine...	Having spent 4 years of my life in Texas I was introduced to the wonders of Creole and Cajun cuisine.  Generally, Creole developed in the city of New Orleans using local produce but influenced by the multicultural nature of the city.  Cajun (or Acadian) cooking is food from the country.<br />I am partial to the simplicity of one-pot cooking offered by Cajun cooking.  These are wonderful hearty and spicy meals (gumbo, red beans &amp; rice, etoufee, jambalya) that I often cook to serve large groups of people.  In fact, Chef Jamie includes many of these recipes in the &quot;crew&quot; section of the cookbook since he used them for staff meals.	2002-03-21
US	53027728	R3VY9H5M6NEXXK	0684818701	422504912	The All New All Purpose: Joy of Cooking	Books	4	5	7	N	N	A must-have starter for a kitchen library.	If you had to have one cookbook, this is probably it.  While other books may offer &quot;over-the-top&quot; and &quot;take your breath away&quot; recipes, this encyclopedic tome covers the basics of just about everything you need to know in the kitchen.  It offers information about ingredients, cooking techniques, and an extensive list of recipes <br />The most useful features of the book are the index and the organizational structure.  You can find recipes based on an ingredient which is what I often do since I am inspired by the fresh produce of the season.  Because the book is well-organized, you can then thumb through a number of recipe options all using the same primary ingredient.<br />I have never had trouble following a recipe.  This is a time-tested book created for the home cook.	2002-03-21
US	53027728	R2UCA9KCF84XV6	0130122173	754893819	Marketing Management: Millennium Edition (10th Edition)	Books	4	48	53	N	N	The marketing standard bearer	Phillip Kotler is an internationally recognized name in marketing, and this introductory text (undergraduate or MBA-level) is a comprehensive resource on the subject.  It provides a framework for analyzing marketing  opportunities and making strategic decisions with respect to the marketing  mix to maximize customer value.  This latest edition was written with the  Internet in mind and how it has changed marketing strategy.  The only  problem with the book may be its comprehensiveness because it tries to  cover every conceivable topic.  That makes it a handy reference, but you  may need to consult other resources on both marketing and strategy to get a  deeper understanding.	2000-05-15
US	53027728	R3ECELRJ7TZB34	007011675X	469899631	The New Corporate Finance	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A good reference for motivated MBAs and practitioners	As the title of the book clearly indicates, the text advances corporate finance beyond the theory presented in texts like Brealy and Myers.  Thus, the text is geared towards a more sophisticated reading audience.  In a  collection of articles, academics and finance practitioners discuss the  real world impact of capital budgeting, dividend/share repurchase policy,  financial innovations (e.g. convertibles, commodity-linked bonds,  derivatives, etc.), and bankruptcy on firms.  Do not be scared off by the  &quot;academic&quot; nature of this text.  Unlike academic journals, the  long-winded discussions on hypothesis testing and experimentation are  abandoned (along with the high-level mathematics).  The articles are very  readable and any empirical evidence is presented in relatively friendly  charts and graphs, which do a great job at providing the proper intuition.   More importantly, the authors usually include real world anecdotal evidence  to support the conclusions, as well.	2000-05-15
US	53027728	R2J3UKXX7BCHQ7	0786310952	308554145	The Handbook of Fixed Income Securities	Books	3	21	24	N	N	The problem with any book claiming to be a &quot;Handbook&quot;...	The Handbook attempts to be all things to all people, and thus tries to cover many too many topics with uneven results.  The Handbook provides good institutional knowledge about fixed income markets and the basics of  pricing and portfolio management (including some international portfolio  management issues).  This is sufficient to learn basic fixed income  intuition, which may be enough for people not heavily involved in fixed  income markets (i.e. MBA students, consultants, CFA candidates, etc.).  The  greatest fault (to me) is the book does not address the biggest assumption  of basic fixed income pricing theory (i.e. interest rates are assumed to be  constant or at least know functions of time).  This is obviously  unrealistic.  The Handbook does not help  practitioners interested in  advanced pricing theory and requires consultation with more advanced  texts.<br />However, I must admit the Handbook does look impressive sitting on  your desk.  In a pinch, it also makes for a good, albeit expensive,  paperweight or doorstop. :-)	2000-05-15
US	53027728	R12KV065ZAZJ3R	0195131444	610673953	The Origin and Evolution of New Businesses	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Additional insights	Arnold Kling has an oustanding review of this book, but I wanted to add my two cents on the subject.<br />Basically, Bhide provides interesting insights into the entrepreneurs themselves as well.  Entrepreneurs can generally be  divided into two types: 1) those that plan a venture very carefully, and 2)  everyone else.  The former group gets most of the press because they tend  to be associated with VC funding, corporate partnerships, and eventually  IPOs.  Careful planning can be a prerequisite to funding, but as the book  notes, VC funding, especially with the amount of capital available today,  does not automatically mean things have been well thought out.  <br />In many  ways, I am more intrigued by the latter group of entrepreneurs focused on  the marginal businesses.  They lack the pedigree (i.e. MBA education and  experience) and resources, but create many more businesses.  The real key  is that these investments make sense.  Unlike the current state of Internet  investing, these entrepreneurs look to make low-risk bets (say $50,000 of  money from family and friends), which can be turned into a big hit but also  have limited downside risk.	2000-05-15
US	53027728	RLMMFCP5ETX44	0140263667	937889896	Recipes 1-2-3: Fabulous Food Using Only 3 Ingredients	Books	4	14	17	N	N	Don't expect a miracle...	The concept of Recipies 1-2-3 is intriguing: recipies with only 3 ingredients (water, salt, and pepper not included).  In many ways, this simplifies recipes.  However, the tradeoff is that cooking techniques or unique ingredients (e.g. tahini) are often substitutes for creating flavor,  which may challenge some readers.  The book also offers tips for adding  ingredients to improve the dishes, complete menus using recipes from the  book, and helpful wine pairings.  I will probably check out Rozanne Gold's  other books in the future.	2000-05-03
US	53027728	RABNYP4R9WIZ4	0138857407	425196887	Taxes and Business Strategy: A Global Planning Approach	Books	4	12	14	N	N	A good text	Excerpts of the text are used in the Taxes and Business Strategy course at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business.  Scholes and Wolfson have provided an excellent, multi-perspective framework for thinking about tax issues and how taxes can impact the value of a transaction.  Unfortunately, S&amp;W have been making too much money in the private  sector to update this book so some of the details in the book regarding tax  laws are dated.	2000-05-01
US	53027728	R3V55X4ELD7R6L	0130224448	505888351	Options, Futures, and Other Derivatives (4th Edition)	Books	5	12	15	N	N	A classic	Hull's text is the definitive text on futures and options.  The book provides the basis for understanding the underlying principles for valuing derivatives intstruments.  Since the text is academic and theoretical in  nature, the book is geared towards graduate business school students and  Wall Street professionals (and maybe only those working on trading/research  desks).  For the day-trading crowd, you will not find any specific  discussions about trading strategies that make money.  Instead, you will be  enriched with a fundamental understanding of derivatives pricing --- from  there you can try to earn your riches.	2000-05-01
US	53027728	RT0278GU4XXPJ	0684835185	48592985	Global Bargain Hunting: The Investors Guide to Profits in Emerging Markets	Books	1	4	8	N	N	Save your money	The book reads like a very bad Forbes article. Definitely not what you would expect from noted academics. The book is anecdotal with limited academic evidence presented to prove the authors' thesis that a well-diversified portfolio should include investments in international companies (and probably mutual funds or other indexed investments). Nothing you haven't seen before if you watch CNBC. Therefore, the book adds very little to an investor's understanding of international investing. With a large universe of literature written about investing and portfolio management, save your money and avoid this book like the plague!<br />I wanted to add my 2 cents on the benefits and disbenefits of index investing (esp. vs. closed end funds).  Benefits: 1) low transcations cost, 2) low tracking error (hopefully), 3) liquidity at NAV.  Disbenefits: 1) vicious cycle of reinvesting in winners, 2) fails to take advantage of the asymmetries of information in these markets, 3) fails to use real information which analysts generate (e.g. shouldn't you pull out if you are predicting a currency crisis).  <br />I took a class with Prof. Mei and even he favored buying into \\"beat-up\\" markets after a crisis.  That sounds like classic mean-reverting, market-timing investing to me and not buying an index.  Don't beleive all the press you read on indexing.	2000-05-01
