US	53027693	R2KMVM6LL3DSSV	0590457268	396521393	Sideways Arithmetic From Wayside School	Books	5	30	32	N	N	Logic challenge!	This is a wonderful extra for a bright and mathematically-minded kid. It's silly, it's fun, and it hones the logic circuits. It is actually a cleverly disguised introduction to the concept of mathematical variables. Some of the puzzles are complex enough to engage most adults as well.	2001-12-04
US	53027693	RZUTQP24LNXU5	0425178218	370448941	Anonymous Rex	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A delightfully wacky genre-blender!	I've rarely had more fun reading a story! Garcia takes an absolutely out-the-window bizarre premise (1 out of every 20 humans is actually a dinosaur in disguise - yeah, RIGHT!), and writes it so well that it works! This is only made possible by his total faithfulness in one plane to the private dick genre, while doing alternate reality s.f. on another plane, AND messing wildly with science-run-amok horror on yet another. This is an amazing feat of writing! <BR>Wryly humorous, thought-provoking, and steamy by turns, this tale (tail?) gets you right under this guy's (guise?) fake skin. Oh, so very well done, Mr. Garcia!	2001-12-04
US	53027693	RH48HTCFQEAG8	0441028926	804242939	Archer's Goon	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Jones' outrageous best!	This is far from a typical children's book! It is a fabulous, funny, wildly imaginative coming-of-age tale about a family (or two families) and ... wars. Parental wars, sibling wars, wizard wars, gang wars! <BR> <BR>It is impossible to convey the feel of the wacky, warm, confused and confusing bunch of characters that Jones created in this amazing yarn. Successive versions of reality are revealed and then peeled away to reveal another below, like an onion. She has created many wonderful and wildly differing worlds in her many books; this may just be the best and most original.	2001-11-30
US	53027693	R1U0LYKG7PRX9D	044652560X	396075786	Wheelers	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Tasty cosmic soup	I rarely read &quot;hard&quot; sci-fi anymore, but this book successfully caught and held me with its richly eclectic mix of elements. History, highly realistic and interesting futurism, religion (presented with beautifully understated cynicism), social analysis, and a non-standard human drama enrich this book beyond its science fiction base. <br />These authors take meticulous care to make their science fiction as believable as possible; a praiseworthy - and unfortunately rare - trait in modern sci-fi authors. While the premise of intelligent life on Jupiter initially seems wildly far-fetched, the explication is amazingly logical, plausible, and well fleshed out... though occasionally a touch ponderous.  Wheelers makes the point that reality is all about unexpected truths - particularly when life enters the equations. <br />Stewart and Cohen obviously had a good deal of fun in their creation of a sentient alien society! The ponderous movings of the alien government, and political groups and movements are amusingly parodical. And several groan-out-loud sick word jokes (&quot;antibiautics&quot; and &quot;antibiautic resistance&quot; particularly spring to mind!) are buried like juicy nuggets in the cosmic soup.<br />All in all, this was an enjoyable and thought-provoking book. I am not sure that the &quot;Pause&quot; is an original concept, but from this pre-Pause point in history, I am hoping it is an accurate prediction...	2001-05-15
US	53027693	R1WYCQPFZVXDLU	0374527229	198259676	Ex Libris: Confessions of a Common Reader	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Hilarious reinforcement for the Readaholic!	This book is sheer enjoyment for anyone who loves to read. I laughed 'til my eyes teared at her chapter on the compulsive proofreader (Insert a Car^/rot)! Anne Fadiman obviously had fun examining the many facets of the reader/book relationship -  and the human relationships also affected. Both the trials, and special pleasures unique to married readers are all here. The books brought to bed, attendant crumbs, read-aloud passages... And the reading parent and child relationship, with chewed pages, re-visited favorites, the teen discovery of erotica on a parent's shelf. It's all here, in her fresh and clean prose.<br />I, who NEVER read non-fiction without a concrete need, could not put this book down! It is a book to read, keep, and share.<br />Throughout her essays, you will recognize yourself, your family members, and your friends who read, with their beauties and eccentricities (often one and the same). If I had the money, I'd buy a cratefull! I have already thought of at least a dozen folks to whom I would love to give this book...	2001-04-26
US	53027693	R39JNCMETC2DKI	0345417623	786105285	Timeline	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A lack and a lass...	Crichton again has used the formula that brought such an amazing payoff with Jurassic Park: A thin outline of genuine science, liberally overlaid by sensationalist sci-fi speculation, forms the framework of a high-paced dramatic adventure. With, of course, a smattering of love interest.<br />Unfortunately, the gaps in the pseudo-science of Timeline are even more glaring than in Jurassic Park. Good science fiction should be believable, or at least logical! Crichton chooses quantum physics as his playground, stretches a few fringe facts to extremes, and voila, TIME TRAVEL! His &quot;quantum computer&quot;, which uses the theoretical 32 quantum states of individual electrons for ultra-high-density data storage and manipulation, is the most plausible part of the picture he paints. <br />Then he uses his quantum computer to record the enormous amount of data required to formulate a human being, and somehow transfer that into another time and place. Never mind the details. No, no, I don't mean I won't give away the details; I mean Crichton never gives away the details! And there are a lot of big details missing!  For instance, Crichton completely forgets to posit an interface capable of making that data into real protoplasm... If his quantum computer could create matter from mere data, jeez, wouldn't that be, like, God?!! It would at least put manufacturing out of business!<br />However, once Crichton gets his characters into the past, he comes into his own. He paints a highly knowledgeable and convincing picture of the place and period.  This is where his tale shines!  The unexpected complexity and structure of the &quot;Dark Ages&quot; comes to life - language, economy, social roles, architectures and all. And he gives us a clear contrast between life in modern society versus life in that past: Safety and control, versus unexpected physical and mental challenge. He makes his point clearly. How very less alive we are in our sanitized modern world!<br />Despite the book'sobvious flaws, ultimately, it is a fast-paced, good read, and manages to provoke some real thought. And dreams...	2001-04-24
US	53027693	R26MP84NSIJESE	044021906X	779004110	Staying Fat for Sarah Byrnes	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Perhaps too much fun for its subject matter.	It almost hurts to find yourself laughing so much on the way through such a book. When the book is dealing with the pain of a socially ostracized teenager that was deliberately burned as a tender 3-year-old by a brutal,  controlling father, and abandoned by a cowardly mother, how can these  amazing lines force you to laugh? But they do.<br />This is a beautifully  choreographed little book that hurtles along at top speed, lurching from  highs to lows, with absolutely pitiless humor. It's only some breaths after  finishing that the reader can consider and find it a bit too neat.<br />Eric  (a.k.a. Moby) Calhoune is the fattest kid in the school. Sarah Byrnes, face  and hands hideously burn scarred, is the ugliest. But they are both among  the brightest. Thrown together by their deformity, they bolster each  other's determination in the face of social attacks. Eric's talent as a  swimmer buys his ticket out of ostracism, and the workouts begin to burn  him out of his fat. But he is determined never to leave his first and best  friendship behind.<br />This is a good story about loyalty, moral courage, and  inner honesty. Although each character is well-drawn and believable, it is,  however, perhaps a bit too pat, with too many absolute villains and heroes  to be fully convincing. Still, a great read, darkly funny, and one to  discuss with any young adult.	2000-06-25
US	53027693	R2FMLO7FTOF7IL	0060973390	643710589	The Year of the Zinc Penny	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The haunting coming-of-age tale of a lonely kid in wartime.	Maybe it wouldn't be too bad to live this story for just anyone. Some of us are more independent than others, some are just simple, and some are unemotional. But this is the story of an emotional, intelligent, and  complex boy, and a brief year of life with his mother and an extended  family.<br />Paul's widowed mother has left him several times in unhappy  circumstances - with his grandparents for several years, and in various  institutions. When he finally has the chance to live with her in a family  context, he never wants it to end. But it is wartime, and everything is  much too complicated and desperate for normalcy to prevail. This is the  story of Paul's manic struggle to swim rather than sink in the  much-too-adult life current that has collided with his childhood. <br />This  is a very American story, and many American readers will crack a grin as  they identify with Paul's maudlin escapist daydreams, as he visualizes  himself at the controls of a fighter plane, coming down in enemy territory,  and (of course) dying dramatically in the arms of various beautiful women!   <br />A very good read, sad and funny, with a haunting aftertaste.	2000-06-11
US	53027693	R27X83VD8YRROH	059043277X	932563878	Tangerine	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A family circus with a twist.	Tangerine is the new town that Paul's family is moving to. On the surface, it looks like many other towns, but its surface is a false front. Under the neat new turf and posh condominium communities is a deep layer of white sand, and under the sand is the old town of Tangerine - once a green and  fruitful center of citrus production. The trees have been burnt and plowed  under, but the old town never really has gone away. Water still flows where  it used to, lightning still strikes the spots where the highest trees once  stood, and the burning trees that were plowed into the muck burn on  -  under the white sand.<br />Paul's family is much like Tangerine. On the  surface, the two boys, Paul and his brother Eric, are star athletes. Dad is  the town's new civil engineer. Mom is leading the new Homeowners'  Association within weeks of moving in. All very upper middle class,  civic-minded, and successful. But a very ugly truth lurks beneath. They all  know it to some degree or another. How long before it emerges from under  the false front?<br />This is a well-written tale of a boy's struggle to face  his fears, and the ugly parental mistakes that can change the face of a  family. However, I wouldn't give it to any kid to read without some  discussion.	2000-06-10
US	53027693	R1RUPIBFLEU0W7	0192818481	728615735	Life on the Mississippi (The World's Classics)	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Essential for any Twain fan.	Mark Twain, the most globally recognised of the greatest American writers, comes closest to autobiography in this odd and fascinating book. This is the story of part of his life at least,  and lays out much of his unique  moral and political philosophy.<br />As a book, Life on the Mississippi lacks  a truly coherent story line after the half-way point; it tells the story of  Twain's training as a Mississippi steamboat pilot, then, when he returns to  the river years later as a successful writer, it drops off into anecdotes  as Twain travels down the great river, and can be a deadly bore for some  readers. <br />But, oh, what a picture of Twain it draws! There are great  tales of characters he meets along the river, told in his inimitably funny  style, wonderful bits of his childhood - like the tale of his insomniac  guilt and terror when the match he loans a drunk ends up causing the jail  to burn down, killing the drunk - and insightful portraits of the towns and  villages along the river.<br />This is a characteristically American book,  about progress and independence as well as the greatest American river,  written by this most characteristically American writer. It is a true  classic (a thing Twain despised! He said, &quot;Classics are books that  everybody praises, but nobody reads.&quot;), a book that will remain a  delight for the foreseeable future.	2000-06-06
US	53027693	R2KDYLTLT4J31N	0684814617	62777015	Death and Restoration: A Jonathan Argyll Mystery	Books	4	16	20	N	N	A tense but amusing mystery with a haunting subplot.	Once again, the charming but luckless young art dealer, Jonathan Argyll, and his new wife, the capable art cop Flavia stumble into an odd situation with a stolen piece of art. <br />Set in a dusty but gorgeous old neighborhood  in the streets of Rome, this tale is filled with subplots. A blackmailed  grandmother, risking her life and reputation to save her young  granddaughter, an ancient order of monks moving reluctantly into the modern  century, an ancient legend that seems to have come to life. Throughout the  tale, Pears walks a delicate line, allowing the reader to slip into the  aura of the past, and to wonder at the possibilities of real backing for  old superstitions.<br />This story is not only filled with engrossing  secondary stories, but also chock full of wonderfully drawn and realized  characters. An old monk slipping into senility, who is the only one with a  complete understanding of the history of the missing piece of art. A  superstitious and dutiful neighborhood cleaning lady. Two aging, brilliant  criminals, with their own stringent moral codes, and a secret past love  affair. And the reader meets again with Jonathan and Flavia's favorite  nemesis.<br />Again in this warm and engaging series, Pears has produced a  charming mystery that stands well above the ordinary.	2000-06-01
US	53027693	R1WXV655JZ7EW8	0425173585	782673302	Giotto's Hand (Art History Mysteries)	Books	4	12	13	N	N	A nice little mystery with a cosmopolitan flavor.	Not only is this book an outstandingly enjoyable read on its own, but also, in Giotto's Hand, Jonathan Argyll and his fiance Flavia meet up with a character who is pivotal to other books of this charming series. <br />The  struggling young art dealer Jonathan and Flavia the art cop live, of  course, in Rome, the art capitol of the world. Pears not only gives the  reader a beautiful feel for life in this culturally rich and layered city,  but also gives a delightful study in contrasts when Jonathan is propelled  by circumstances back into a small English village. As the story moves from  one country to the other, the characters remain firmly and convincingly  immured in the world of art dealers and art thieves - often one and the  same. <br />Unlike so many mysteries, this is not one with an open and shut  conclusion. Morality must get gently re-defined as the circumstances of  real life impact the black and white facts of the crime. Although this is a  relatively simple tale, and doesn't pretend to the complexity of Pears'  &quot;An Instance of the Fingerpost&quot;, this is a subtle, heart-warming  and sophisticated mystery.	2000-06-01
US	53027693	R2QLBK0WSNURRN	0395549701	538003042	The Samurai's Tale	Books	4	42	44	N	N	A window into a different time and place.	This is a beautifully written tale of the life of the orphaned son of a samurai. It is filled with the dramatic changes of fortune that are commonplace in times of war, and imbued with the alien values and  atmosphere of ancient Japan.<br />In the space of a day, the petted son of a  noble samurai loses not only his family, but all his status. Rather than  being killed with the rest, he unintentionally charms a samurai of the lord  who killed his father and family, and is allowed to live - as a servant.  Throughout his life, the boy seeks to return to the heights from which he  descended. He meets wonderful friends, and learns many hard lessons -  always in a state of war, or on the edge of it.<br />This is an excellent  tale, filled with adventure and contemplation both. As is obvious by the  schoolkids reviews on this site, it is not necessarily for the average  child. But an intelligent kid, who is a good reader, and capable of  understanding the differences between cultures, will enjoy this  coming-of-age adventure.	2000-05-06
US	53027693	RTA0FUY6L446Z	0684189593	969773844	Rift	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Beyond the pales.	This is an outstanding piece of work. It is, however, not really classifiable as a mystery, or even a thriller. It is a high-energy adventure and survival story.<br />The female protagonist is tough,  independent, smart, and pretty savvy. But when she decides to go into a  section of Africa that no one can tell her much about, she realizes that  she has made a mistake. Of what use is money when transportation, food, and  lodging is absolutely not available? And who in such a modern world would  imagine that one could end up so thoroughly out of reach of civilisation?  <br />She gamely begins the battle to return home, but it seems that someone  in her group has become the target for undercover political violence. Could  it be her?<br />Gritty (literally, since washing is a rare luxury in the rift)  and suspenseful reading. The details are utterly evocative and convincing;  the characters are fully realized. Cody is an outstanding writer, and this  is one of her very best.	2000-05-05
US	53027693	R1ZZ0TXNVSF93Y	0531095398	724578650	A Girl Named Disaster	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An ultimate adventure of trial and survival.	This is an outstanding story of a young girl's odyssey. Nhamois a realistic African Cinderella. An orphan, she lives with hercousins, and does most of the dirty work. The only adult in her littleback-woods village that loves her is her grandmother. Smart and tough, Nhamo gives her bullying aunts plenty of trouble. But after a terrible bout of cholera, the entire village's troubles are blamed on Nhamo. In a short time, Nhamo discovers some very ugly truths about her family, and is about to be married to a diseased and evil older man.  With the encouragement of her grandmother, Nhamo decides to run away. She has no idea of what she will face on the journey! During her long search for the Zimbabwe border and her father's family, Nhamo deals with starvation, dehydration, and prolonged solitude. Her courage and positive outlook are challenged again and again, but she is a fighter!  This is a wonderful story for any girl. Sick of boys doing all the good stuff in the books? Nhamo does everything she must.  She finds food, builds shelters and traps, makes weapons, and faces predators. Ultimately she finds a haven.   This book is much more serious than Farmer's wonderful &quot;The Ear, The Eye, and The Arm&quot;. Where that book was loaded with whimsy and yearning, this one carries desperation. But it is not devoid of humor. The antics of the baboon troop, and the interactions among the folks at Efifi are hilarious! Farmer has an absolutely magic touch.  This book is also a wonderful immersion in the ways of another part of the world. It is an edifying little slice of a totally different culture. It will broaden the worldview of most any reader. A wonderfully good read.	2000-04-27
US	53027693	RLZ70GAJSY5SG	0553212435	109240111	Villette (Bantam Classic)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	From within the mind of the depressive.	An engrossing and internal tale. Lucy Snowe, Bronte's heroine,is a sensitive and thoughtful woman, with a powerful code of internalhonor. She allows herself never to dodge reality, but faces itstraight on, whatever the consequences. Unfortunately, she is fated for bad luck.<br />Though she never tells the early details of Lucy Snowe's life, Bronte paints a picture of a young woman of good family (this translates into money and social privilege), whose family and fortune evaporate in her adolescence. From this point on, she is thrown on her own resources. <br />Lucy Snowe is practical, intelligent, and perceptive, but unfortunately prone to depression. She has the ability to make her own way in life, and soon finds a good post as a teacher in a young woman's school. But she feels her isolation keenly. No longer one of the pampered daughters of a good family, she is reminded of her loss by her pupils constantly. With no close relationships around her, Lucy cannot maintain her emotional stability, and sinks into severe depression. The cycle is repeated several times through the book: Lucy suffers the loss of an emotional ally, sinks into a depression, meets with another source of emotional support, loses this one...<br />The tale is told very well. I admired Lucy for her inner honesty and determination throughout, and suffered with her aching loneliness. The portrait of Lucy, and every other character in the book, is utterly convincing. Many of the characters and interactions are so clear and human and funny that you may laugh out loud at the reading! Yet, the story is ultimately tragic.<br />The book is studded with French dialogue, making me wish strongly that I had studied the language! The reader who can not read French is at a distinct disadvantage. Of course, at the time the book was written, French was the universal language of the educated world. But the sense of the story is quite clear nonetheless.More offputting were the many panegyrics to abstract entities.Hope, Reason, and Hypchondria (which meant &quot;melancholy&quot; at the time)are personified and addressed repeatedly. This, of course, was the style of the day, but I still felt it was a bit overdone.<br />My greatest objection, however, is the ambiguous ending! I have always felt that it is the author's duty to tell the end of a story - not leave it up to the reader!  Of course, the logic of the book dictates the worse of the two choices, but I feel it was done in a cowardly way.<br />Yet this is a beautifully written book, full of real thought and emotion. Quite rightly a classic.	2000-04-27
US	53027693	R3OHCLTMIVQAUJ	038542017X	507593319	Like Water for Chocolate: A Novel in Monthly Installments with Recipes, Romances, and Home Remedies	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Dreamy and lush.	This is a story filled with the sort of simplicity and symbolism of legends and fairy tales. And, like water for making chocolate, it boils violently - with passion!<br />In both book and movie, this is a tale of the tortures of repressed emotion. The youngest daughter of a cold, powerful,  and autocratic mother, Tita learns (only after she has fallen in love!)  that she is forbidden to marry because she is designated to care for her  mother in her old age. Rejected as a baby by her mother, Tita grew up in  the kitchen, nurtured by the loving cook. Blocked at every turn from acting  on her emotions, Tita magically transmits her frustrated and repressed  feelings through her food.<br />The food is stunning and complex, and adds yet  another level of sensuous symbolism. With either the book or the amazingly  faithful movie, you will be swept into romantic allegory.	2000-03-24
US	53027693	R30KG5BTGBNVMA	0878579990	679477487	Rodale's Ultimate Encyclopedia of Organic Gardening: The Indispensable Green Resource for Every Gardener	Books	4	51	52	N	N	An excellent general gardening guide.	I have poked through endless shelves of gardening books, seeking the one, complete gardening book that I could use as a reference for everything! I was looking for one that would tell not only how to plant and grow things, but also how to harvest and prepare the products. How should you cut your  asparagus so as not to damage the crowns? How do you dry your herbs? This  was one of the few gardening books that addressed this aspect.<br />This was  not its only outstanding characteristic. Not only does this book address  the vegetable garden, it also tackles anything the home gardener is likely  to face. Houseplants, trees and shrubs, ornamental plants as well as  productive plants. It covers general topics, such as crop rotation, in  addition to specific plants. And it is all arranged alphabetically, and  nicely cross-indexed, so that you can nearly always find what you  need.<br />The first and second time I bought this book, it was as a gift. I  finally had to get it for myself as well. It is the best I have found so  far.	2000-03-23
US	53027693	RKUQC2H3H0XC2	0531058379	668218168	Afternoon Of The Elves	Books	5	51	55	N	N	A tragic judgment on our comfortable social assumptions	This is a difficult book to read and accept. It beautifully delivers a message that I think most readers will dodge, particularly young readers, but perhaps most well-trained adults as well. It points out that our  society's politically correct response to some social situations may be  morally completely wrong.<br />Hillary is a happy kid from a good home, with  plenty of happy friends. But she is fascinated by her next-door neighbor  Sara-Kate in spite of her junk-filled yard, her ratty clothes, and her  strange ways. Sara-Kate, you see, has elves in her back yard. And an  inordinate amount of knowledge of the strong and independent ways of elves.  Slowly, Sara-Kate's elvish charm draws Hillary closer, until finally  Hillary enters into Sara-Kate's fantasy along with her. As this happens,  Hillary also begins to absorb the ugly reality that the fantasy makes  bearable: Sara-Kate's father has left, and sends odd bits of money  sometimes. Sara-Kate's beloved mother is sick, mentally ill, and Sara-Kate  cares for her like a child, hiding the reality from the world so that  authorities won't take her mother away from her as before. <br />There are two  levels to the story. On the surface, there is the story of an odd,  graceless outcast slowly charming another child away from her old friends  with the intensity of her fantasies. Below, however, is the story of an  abandoned child and mother, and more, the story of an unusually loyal,  strong and resourceful child forced by her mother's mental illness to take  on incredible responsibility.<br />It is a terrible story. By that, I mean  that it draws a picture of a horrible mental and physical ordeal. The  beautiful fantasy that sustains this unusual kid has the power of its  creator's determination. And the sadness of the story is offset by the  amazing nobility and optimism of an unusual character.	2000-03-22
US	53027693	R3JUWRY3OCRB98	0060930535	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	30	34	N	N	A stunning and powerful story.	I didn't want to read this book. And even after I began reading it, it did not pull me in for several chapters. But after the first time  around, through each of the voices, the characters came clearly into focus, and I  was lost. Even now, days after finishing the book, I remain in the spell it  cast.<br />Kingsolver presents this experience of an uprooted middle-American  family desperately trying to adapt to life in the Congo from 5 different  points of view - a mother, and each of her 4 very different daughters.  Similarly to Pears' technique in An Instance of the Fingerpost, Kingsolver  tells a part of the story from each different viewpoint. Like Pears, each  of her narrators has a strong, clear, very real personality. But Kingsolver  outdoes Pears in that each of her narrators has a characteristic voice all  her own. Orleanna is a desperate and naive young mother, striving to keep  her children well. Rachel is the self-centered beauty queen, Leah is an  earnest, brilliant tomboy, Adah is Leah's crippled, bitter, perhaps more  brilliant twin, and then there is little Ruth May, bossy and competitive.  Each one's different perspective meshes with the others' to create a  complete and engrossing picture of the whole. <br />In the unfolding of the  drama, there is a wealth of sensory detail, and plenty of humor to offset  plenty of tragedy. The incongruous differences in social outlook, and the  endless language difficulties make for lots of laughs, as well as some of  the biggest tragedies. <br />Someone should slap Alix Wilber for calling  Kingsolver's presentation of her philosophical and political viewpoint a  &quot;weakness&quot;. The message in this book is actually a social one,  and isn't that one of the responsibilities of art? And whose viewpoint  should she write from, if not her own? But the political message is  anything but strident; the message and the story are entirely intertwined,  each enhancing the other.	2000-03-17
US	53027693	R394A12CDVROAB	039330812X	878853693	Desolation Island (Aubrey/Maturin)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	One of the most touching of these human dramas at sea.	Patrick O'Brian's Aubrey/Maturin series is a special genre unto itself. I can only compare it to Jane Austen with sea legs and a jolt of testosterone! O'Brian offers a unique and realistic insight on human nature. <br />In this book, Maturin's fruitless pursuit of love has brought  his spirit to new lows. His friends fear for him; even he, as a physician,  fears for himself. But his secret agent role brings a new lease on life. He  is assigned to get the details of the newly fledged American intelligence  service from a convicted American agent - who just happens to be a  beautiful woman, strongly resembling Diana, the object of Maturin's  hopeless love.<br />In the course of this voyage, Captain Aubrey comes to a  sudden realization of the true horrors of war, and Dr. Maturin finds the  generosity of spirit to enjoy and mentor vicarious love. With a long and  suspenseful chase on the water, a witch on board, and a &quot;Jonah&quot;  to boot, this is one of the best yet.	2000-03-15
US	53027693	R3ILF26NY2ULZO	0882668978	312769165	A Guide to Raising Chickens: Care, Feeding, Facilities (Storey Animal Handbook)	Books	5	63	64	N	N	Comprehensive, well-organised, and very readable.	My 9-year-old daughter wants to raise chickens, and we bought this book to find out how to proceed. It has answered every question we had, and many we didn't know to ask! The book is so clear and easy to read, that my daughter read it cover to cover. But don't get the impression it is written for  kids; it is intended for an adult reader, and has all the detail you could  want.<br />This is an excellent piece of work, with information on every  aspect of chicken raising from housing and disease prevention to the  general management of a flock. It covers all the aspects of raising  chickens from nearly every point of view: the backyard flock, small-time  commercial operation, and show birds. Everything is written clearly and  well-illustrated, and even sprinkled with occasional gentle touches of  humor! An excellent reference book for any chicken owner to keep on their  shelf.	2000-03-14
US	53027693	R22WBGX4ILTBJN	0151004099	427489038	Casanova in Love	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Sardonic and sad.	Miller's second book is similar to his first in that again he deals with large themes: the nature of life and death, happiness, and the human experience. And again, Miller's prose is lyrical and sensuously  descriptive. But there the resemblance ends.<br />Casanova In Love is a  melancholy and contemplative piece, with a touch of ironic wit that never  quite breaks out into open humor. What humor the book contains is at the  expense of this love idol, the great Casanova, stumped at last in his most  expert game. Casanova, in the grip of his mid-life crisis!<br />Wanting to  change the course of his life, Casanova tries to re-define himself.  Unfortunately, he unwittingly tries to find an ultimate love through which  to redefine himself, and in so doing, he ends up in the same role he has  played so very many times before. And is defeated by his own  disillusionments. Once the master of the game of love, he finds himself  cynically trying to buy the woman he wants. He cannot believe in love as he  used to, and is unable to see that this is the very reason he cannot  succeed.<br />The premise of this story is far tamer, and the pace and mood  much steadier, than Ingenious Pain. It is less exciting; however it is no  less thoughtful.	2000-03-13
US	53027693	R2P050I5HQQM3Y	0688124887	766274412	Hexwood	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Outstanding, but overshoots the target audience a bit.	As with all of Jones books I have read, this book instantly grips the reader and creates a solid bond with the main characters. But unlike most of her books, this is a very challenging read! For one thing, there simply is no solid timeline. The reader begins the book at a half-way point, but  does not even begin to discover this until chapters and chapters later.  Characters are not who, or even what, they seem, and shift without warning.  But beyond this, there are deep references not only to Arthurian legend,  but also Beowulf. And while it is still enjoyable without the frame of  reference provided by knowledge of those times and tales, the reader  without it cannot help feeling that they are missing something.<br />All of  these tricks do serve to enhance and deepen the story - for the right  reader. And that reader is a highly intelligent teenager or adult with an  extensive reading background and a love of fantasy and/or science fiction.	2000-03-13
US	53027693	R1A0Z74DTEG3Y	039330762X	350671306	The Mauritius Command (Aubrey/Maturin )	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Aubrey attempts to steer men as well as their ships.	Jack Aubrey's dreams of success in the British Navy get a boost when he is assigned as the Commodore of a fleet near Mauritius. But, along with the glory of the management post, comes the hellish torture of responsibility  for the actions of several captains less capable than Jack. <br />Aubrey and  Maturin finally fully join their mental forces in the attempt to understand  just what makes each captain in the fleet tick. Each at their own level  (Maturin's rather deeper), they form a concept of the other personalities  they must work with. And Aubrey ultimately finds that even the best  planning can be brought to nought by one committee or another... <br />This  book also gives us a gently amusing glimpse of Aubrey's life on land as a  married man. As with all the Aubrey/Maturin books, this is by turns amusing  and thoughtful, as well as realistic and picturesque.	2000-03-13
US	53027693	RFSM4L84EYO4M	0679810307	697653099	Shabanu: Daughter of the Wind (Border Trilogy (Pb))	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Not for just any kid.	This is a beautifully done tale from inside a culture from the past. The Cholistani are clearly portrayed as a scattered people clinging to old ways in the desert.<br />This is the tale of one Cholistani girl, rebelling against  her fate as a woman, while loving and deeply appreciating the way of life  of her people. It is very convincingly told, and beautifully written.  <br />This story is not for the average teen or pre-teen, but for a thoughtful  and intelligent young girl, it is an eye-opening and provocative  experience.<br />I bought this book for my daughter, and we both loved it.	2000-03-08
US	53027693	R20U4QVKQCDWZY	0698118057	883712699	The Great Dimpole Oak	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A delightfully sweet and silly romp.	The big old oak in the farmer's field was many things to many people. The children of Dimpole had played under the great tree for many generations. The farmer himself was fond of telling tales of ancient murders and hidden  treasure under its branches. When an officious pillar of the community  decides to take offense to the lurid tales, she plans a parade and public  gathering at the tree.<br />At the same time, two neighborhood boys plan  revenge on a local bully under the tree. Two shy adults gradually find some  common ground, and the possibility of love. And an Indian swami sees the  tree in a dream, and begins a pilgrimage. All come together under the  beautiful old tree, with a surprising twist to the ending.<br />This little  book is beautifully written, with clean, rhythmic prose. It begins with  deceptive simplicity, but ties its many story lines together with a  satisfying and poetic beauty that brings Louis Sachar's &quot;Holes&quot;  to mind.<br />I bought this book for my daughter, but, once I began reading -  and laughing - I had to continue to the warmly enjoyable end. This is very  readable for all ages.	2000-02-24
US	53027693	R20ACL643T2F4	0679433023	772509401	Violin	Books	3	20	24	N	N	Self-indulgent emotional effusion.	Few authors handle the English language as musically and rhythmically as Anne Rice; this book is a beautifully flowing wash of words. However, the book is also supremely and tiresomely self-indulgent.<br />In this book, Rice  has committed an egregious offence popular to many amateur authors: she  talks directly of raw emotions rather than showing them in the actions of  the characters, or building them into the atmosphere of the scenes. Unlike  most of Rice' other works, which are a more even (and effective) mix of  plot and introspection, Violin is simply chock-full of endless internal  ponderings on death and guilt. <br />We begin the book with the death of  Triana's AIDS-ridden husband Karl. Triana falls into a trance of despair  and denial, and spends a couple of days alone in the house with the corpse  and memories of all those she has loved and lost. So far so good! But  somewhere in this wallowing in thoughts of death, we lose Karl. He becomes  nothing more than a vanished benefactor, who paved Triana's life with  money.<br />And then comes her ghost. From the beginning, the ghost is  ambiguous. Good or evil? Bringing pleasure or pain? And for what purpose?  Eventually, Triana takes up the position that the ghost intended to drive  her insane. But it seems more a rationalization than a truth.<br />The  remainder of the tale has no internal logic. Triana and her ghost ramble  about from century to century, palace to palace, luxury to luxury. Triana  progresses from wealth to talent to renown, and on to an ultimate victory.  Why? How has she earned this? Where is the conflict or sacrifice? Should  Triana's obsessive and unjustified guilt for the deaths of her loved ones  earn such rewards? <br />Sorry Anne, it doesn't work.	2000-02-23
US	53027693	R1GA0HU1YP8VVY	0531300242	186109857	I Rode A Horse Of Milk White Jade	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A lovely story of courage and determination.	This is a story within a story; Oyuna tells her life story to her granddaughter as they wait for the birth of a new foal. Oyuna was crippled shortly after her birth, when a horse stepped on her foot as she lay in the  grass. Unable to walk well, she learned that horses gave her freedom of  movement, and she learned to regard her disability as an indication that  she was fated to be a great horsewoman. <br />She grew up knowing the pain and  shame of her difference from others. Not only was she a girl in a time and  place where girls had little value, but she was a cripple, too. But having  greater limitations than others drove her to even greater determination to  attain her dreams. And this is the lesson that she passes on to her  granddaughter.<br />Oyuna followed her heart, buying an old mare despite her  age and a lame leg because of the bond between them. And her strong bond  with her horse, and her cat as well, became the greatest forces that shaped  her life.<br />The superstitions of her simple society permeate Oyuna's  narrative, and it may require a bright and skillful reader to separate the  real from the superstition in the tale. But for that reader, this is an  enchanting and gripping story.	2000-02-07
US	53027693	R1UPWA3QFFU19P	0440404029	304607356	The Slave Dancer	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Powerful, realistic, and horribly depressing.	This is a convincing and terrifying tale of a 13-year-old Creole boy's kidnap, and subsequent ordeal at sea on a small slaver. The boy himself is little more than a slave on board the ship, where his most important  function is to play music to assist in forcing the slaves to exercise  regularly. <br />Worse than the physical trials of his overwork, partial  starvation and thirst, are the emotional ordeals which the boy goes  through. Jessie is emotionally alone on a ship full of self-absorbed men  devoid of empathy. When the new-bought slaves are brought on board, he is  the only one on the ship human enough to identify with their anguish.<br />It  is a depressingly real view of our venal world. People are sold into  slavery by their own greedy kings. Bribery and corruption bring  anti-slavery laws to nought. Men turn on their own supposed friends for  profit, and money persuades relatively normal men to ignore the humanity of  their victims. <br />This book presents no fully good characters. There are  only varied gradations of evil. The only man on the ship who shows some  rough concern for Jessie's welfare is an Irishman whose resentment of his  own ethnic group's trials has somehow rebounded into a hatred of most other  ethnic groups. He hates the French (Jessie is half French) and despises the  slaves as less than human. Yet he has more capacity for affection than any  of the others.<br />This book is not merely entertainment. It should be given  only to intelligent and mature kids, and should be discussed with them and  explained by an intelligent and sensitive adult. It will horrify readers of  any color and ethnicity, for it is not merely concerned with the inhumanity  of the American slave trade, but with the larger theme of man's inhumanity  to man.	2000-02-04
US	53027693	R3UYWMCOLPXA1W	0393037037	952337324	H.M.S. Surprise (Aubrey/Maturin Novels)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Another jem in the string.	Like the preceding Aubrey and Maturin books by O'Brian, this is a beautifully written, meticulously realistic tale. In this, the third book of O'Brian's seafaring saga, things take a painfully tragic twist.<br />In the  setting of the sea voyages, the dual romantic dramas of Captain Aubrey and  Doctor Maturin continue to unfold. What reader can truly care that the bold  and dashing Diana Villiers has been subjected to all sorts of low, nasty  gossip, when Maturin has realised that his love for her has survived it?  And will Aubrey's fiance, Sophie, break their engagement in the face of his  long and silent absence at sea? Especially with a charming new minister in  the neighborhood... <br />Always before, in spite of rivalries and breaks, the  good captain and doctor's fortunes have risen and fallen pretty much  together. But in this book, only one will win through to joy.<br />Aside from  the poignant human drama, this book holds the most dramatic description of  a storm at sea that I have ever read. O'Brian's prose drove my heart rate  to amazing heights for the usually non-athletic pursuit of reading!  His  gift for succinct description is purely wonderful.<br />Another wonderful book  in a series of wonderful books.	2000-01-31
US	53027693	RELDCLUNDINJ5	1556614934	839193640	Some Wildflower in My Heart (The Derby Series #2)	Books	3	13	21	N	N	A modern American Christian evangelist tale.	This is a very well-written and readable tale, with a good and convincing story at its heart.<br />Margaret, the protagonist, is a meticulous, overly controlled, cold and unfeeling woman. She is distanced from her fellow  humans in three ways. For one, she is more intelligent, well-educated, and  far more well-read than the average. For another, she was home schooled by  her mother until her teens, when her mother died. But lastly, she has  closed herself emotionally after terrible emotional traumas through her  teen years.<br />But a warm and giving woman who is determined to win her  friendship gradually forces Margaret to re-examine herself, and begin,  slowly, to change.<br />Unfortunately, the writer's Christian evangelical  intent becomes quite blatant, and long tracts of unconvincing dialogue are  used as an excuse to deliver evangelical speeches. If you are not a  &quot;born-again&quot; Christian of the appropriate type, some of the  scenes will make you cringe. Also, in an attempt to lighten the delivery of  the religious message, she has created some unconvincingly (and  unremittingly) humorous characters. <br />Still, the writing is good, the  literary references are good, and the main story is good. I found myself  compelled to read to the ending in order to &quot;find out what happens  next.&quot; And isn't that, after all, the very definition of a good book?	2000-01-28
US	53027693	R2KD0VI6XSS3TE	0671026224	969498109	Dirk Pitt Revealed	Books	1	15	63	N	N	Drowning in testosterone; wallowing in ego.	My spouse has been a devoted Dirk Pitt fan for years, and told me I just HAD to read this book! Spare me!<br />To enjoy this book you must be buried in serious unreality; you have to be a Dirk Pitt fan. Dirk Pitt's name tells  all. His first name - Dirk. A knife, for goodness sake. Not to mention the  major-league echoes of the standard phallic nickname. It is a name that  reeks of violence and danger. Then Pitt. Well, armpit of course! Manly  sweat, hair, and darkness! Some more reeking for you, boys.<br />So Dirk Pitt  reigns as the king of testosterone, romping unscathed through battle scenes  that would take an Arnold Schwarzenegger movie character down, and  uninfected through countless carnal entanglements with unbelievable  babes.<br />This book apparently was written to help keep straight the many  names of similar characters (the bevy of unbelievable babes, for instance),  and details of similar illogical plotlines in Cussler's many unbelievable  books. For the besotted fans only!	2000-01-28
US	53027693	R1EBUJRN2SPWKX	043492850X	892717900	Well Met by Witchlight	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A delightful tale of magic and adventure	It is a pity this book is out of print. If you are lucky enough to stumble on it in a library, or at a used book sale, it is a lovely tale.<br />Three children accidentally meet and befriend a sweet, strange little woman  climbing a tree in the woods, and find that their new friend is just what  they were guessing - a witch. Their friendship with Meg brings them a new  perspective, and she is also a powerful ally.  But by becoming her friend,  they have also gained her enemy.<br />There are many adventures, and  eventually, the children are swept into the age-old battle of good and  evil, and discover that friendship isn't always easy and risk-free.<br />This  is a light and lively story, with adventures in the woods, and lighthearted  magic. But the book carries a gentle message about the need for loyalty to  friends, and courage in the face of seductive evil. It is beautifully  written, and very engaging. Its primary target audience would be children 8  - 13 years old.	2000-01-24
US	53027693	R1FA7UOPKD97BN	0553211803	3653538	Middlemarch (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	195	210	N	N	Amazingly funny and penetrating!	I have had a copy of this book on my shelf for years without reading it. It was so very thick, the print so small, the pages so thin!  It looked dauntingly long and dull. <br />But when I finally picked it up out of a sense  of obligation (after all, I majored in English, and it is a highly  acclaimed classic) I was amazed to find myself laughing out loud on the  very first page!  <br />Dorothea, Eliot's heroine, is SO very earnest, SO  idealistic and ardent! She would never be so tawdry as to fuss with her  hair and dress, or wear (gasp!) jewelry in public! She is interested only  in bettering the lives of the poor in their neighborhood (you could  visualize her at the fore of a modern anti-war protest). But when her  sister draws her into trying on their mother's old jewelry, the pure beauty  of an emerald ring inspires her to decisively choose it as her own. And she  stubbbornly ignores any inconsistency between that decision and her ideals.  <br />But her idealism traps her into marriage with a man who is not at all  what she believes. She sees him as a paragon of learning, questing the seas  of knowledge with fearless curiousity. In actuality, he turns out to be a  cautious and small-minded scholar, drily obsessed with minor points of  criticism on others works. Poor Dorothea strives to find ways to hold  constant in her love in the face of ugly truth. And when she meets young  Will Ladislaw, a man of similar idealism and energy, she fights to stay on  her moral high ground. Thank goodness the dry old scholar dies! But even  after death, he manages to poison the possibility of Dorothea and Will ever  making a life together.<br />Around this couple swarm their relatives and  acquaintances, and others quests for their best lives. Each couple and each  character is amusing and absorbing in their own way.<br />Eliot's characters  are introduced and drawn so very well that each personality is fully  believable and real. But beyond that, Eliot looks at all of them, the best  and the worst, from a viewpoint of loving and gentle amusement. Her pithy  comments are hilarious, but never malicious. She draws the reader into her  own frame of mind, and invites us to look at the variety of our fellow  humans with compassion and laughter.<br />In spite of its length, and several  dizzy plunges into despair, this is a light and lively story, very readable  and heartwarming.	2000-01-10
US	53027693	R102YZ3QZLS27B	0531068293	275280929	The Ear, The Eye, And The Arm (Newbery Honor Book)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Outstandingly good! Funny, insightful, and very different.	Tendai is an intelligent and sensitive teenage boy with all the problems that come with over-achieving and over-protective parents. His father, General Matsika of Zimbabwe's army, is admirable but forbidding, his  mother, a celebrated chemist, is wonderful but much too busy. So Tendai and  his younger brother and sister live a regimented life within the walls of  their huge, beautiful, and much too controlled home estate. In the  believable and not-too-distant possible future world in which this book is  set, they are cared for and brought up by servants - both live and  automated. When they finally manage to leave the estate on their first  adventure, they are unprepared for the complexity of the outside  world.<br />When they are kidnapped, the children find themselves dealing with  the real world without the protection of their parents. Adventure, so  tantalizing from a distance, turns out to be a good deal more uncomfortable  in real life! The children all begin to grow up at a much faster rate.  <br />The Ear, the Eye, and the Arm are private detectives with unusual  weapons; they are mutants with magnified senses. A charming group of  misfits, with their hearts in the right place, they are hired by the  children's distraught mother, and embark on a series of hilarious  adventures to restore the children home.<br />This book is beautifully  written! It is funny and touching, and presents a coming of age adventure  in a way that will bring every reader along. Beyond this, it justaposes a  very believable near future with ancient legend, and will provoke some deep  thought about the modern way of life versus the old ways in any sensitive  reader. <br />Though its characters are children, and the audience for which  it is intended is most probably intelligent adolescents, this book will  hold most adult readers as well.	2000-01-03
US	53027693	R1IVP2N1V6X6NH	0451451511	627037652	In the Blood	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Fabulous genre blend - private eye/vampire tale	This is an absolutely roaring high-paced page turner with the one and only Sonja Blue! Sonja is a vampire for the feminist within any female reader. This is no sultry seduction-artist kind of babe vampire; she's badder than  bad, tough as nails mentally and physically, and yet has an admirable code  of personal honor at her core. <br />I first met Sonja in &quot;Sunglasses  After Dark&quot;, which is excellent. &quot;In the Blood&quot; is even  better!  Vampire and private eye team up when Sonja meets Palmer, a P.I.  with &quot;the sight&quot;. Love and partnership build, blossom, and morph  into various flavors as the action relentlessly continues. With Palmers  help, Sonja continues her hunt for her roots - the vampire who callously  created her, and her human parents as well.<br />A great vampire book, with a  flavor all its own.	1999-12-29
US	53027693	R2S2WTS7Q359BD	0451523814	817574880	Captains Courageous (Signet Classics)	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Wooden and moralistic, not at all typical of Kipling.	This book is loaded with convincing and picturesque details of life at sea in a small fishing boat, and details particular to the time. But these are the book's best points.<br />Characters are 2-dimensional and relatively unconvincing, the prose is loaded with jargon (interesting and picturesque  jargon, but still jargon), and the story line, though believable, is  uninspired. <br />The basic tale is this: a spoiled rich brat falls off a  luxury liner, and is saved from death in the depths by a small fishing  boat. On the boat, for the first time in his life the brat must follow  orders, and do some real work. It's a good basis for a story, but done  unrealistically. (If you want to see the same basic idea done well, read  &quot;Sand&quot;, by Will James) The supposedly incorrigible brat converts  overnight, and begins doing his best to learn the ropes. The conflict is  over instantly, and all that is left to the book is the details of  day-to-day on the fishing boat, with an occasional adventure.<br />It's not  terrible; it is believable in most ways, loaded with interesting detail,  and has a satisfying ending. But it has little or none of Kipling's more  typical tales' whimsy and grace of language.	1999-12-20
US	53027693	R3P8GKC2GCP1RL	0688133606	920682474	Cart and Cwidder (Dalemark Quartet, Book 1) (No 5)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	A very satisfying coming-of-age fantasy.	Moril is a dreamy and contemplative boy, with &quot;his head in the clouds&quot; most of the time. He loves the stories of the old and glorious days, when big doings were about, which his father, a well-known singer,  tells often. Little does he know what his future holds, just around the  corner.<br />This is a tale of unexpected magic, immersed in plenty of action.  The old mandolin-like cwidder that Moril's father played, turns out to be  more than just a musical instrument in Moril's hands. And just in the nick  of time...<br />As always, Jones gives us a cast of characters that become  instantly familiar and believable. The tale is a warm and believable human  drama, mixed judiciously with magic, and a young person's budding maturity.  Beginning as an engaging adventure, the book turns into a compelling  page-turner, with a wonderfully complex and unpredictable ending. Great  stuff for an imaginative young reader.	1999-12-13
US	53027693	R294AVZJMV7S7O	0140344454	213675177	Rascal: Celebrating 50 Years of Sterling North's Classic Adventure! (Puffin Modern Classics)	Books	5	22	24	N	N	A classic American tale, and a wonderful animal story.	I first read the story of Rascal as a child, and was fascinated with the thought of a raccoon as a pet. The adventures of Sterling and his unusual pet were absolutely captivating, and that is all that I remembered of the  book.<br />I recently read this book again to my daughter, piece by piece, at  bedtime. The tale of Rascal captured me again, but so much more became  evident! As an adult, I am struck by the beauty of the land North  describes, and fascinated by the historical and naturalistic detail in his  narrative.<br />North's language is natural and readable, though not overly  simple. It is as though the reader sits at the foot of a rocking chair as  an aged, eminent natural philosopher tells the story of his boyhood. The  words flow over and around the reader, and refresh our sense of wonder at  the beauty of our natural world.	1999-12-13
US	53027693	R1XC0H5IOAFB5S	0803706863	294850794	Bobo's Dream	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Simple, sweet, and perfect for preschoolers.	This is a very cute little story, told all in pictures. A little dog and his little boy are relaxing in the park, and a big dog steals the little dog's bone. The little boy gets the bone back for his dog.<br />Then the little dog has his dream. In the dream, his boy gets his football taken by  some big bullies, and the little dog comes to his rescue. But in the dream,  he is huge! And waking from this dream with a little smug doggy smile, he  catches the big dog returning to steal his bone again. Still full of the  triumphant dream, the little dog routs the big one with a single determined  bark!<br />It's sweet, it's upbeat, and it carries a nice little message about  self-confidence. It's just right for the little ones who love stories, and  cannot read yet, but love to page through familiar books to retell the  story to themselves.	1999-12-13
US	53027693	R4SGZCY1KLP1	1585190357	582584246	Tears Against The Dreamer - Book on CD, Win 95/98	Books	3	1	2	N	N	No match for his previous works.	Sadly, a great and glorious imagination has been reined within the pales of modern suburbia! In this book, H.C. Turk, the author of &quot;Black Body&quot;, a mind-bendingly unique witch story, set in Victorian England,  restricts himself (only an omniscient God would know why) to a completely  realistic modern set. The subject matter of the story could have come off  the front page of any American newspaper - anti-abortion protestors, and a  minority violent fanatic among them. <br />But mundane subject matter can  often become wonderful art in the hands of an artist. Alas, here it did  not. Handled superficially, in this very short book, characters are not  developed deeply enough to bring the reader to identify with them. There's  plenty of action, but no real depth.<br />As always, Turk uses elaborate and  interesting language, but it fails to suit the tale. It rather resembles  gilt paint applied to a stock pine table.<br />Still, the story is well  constructed and tense. And Turk generates a very powerful ending that ties  in all the threads of the various subplots.	1999-12-03
US	53027693	R1VUFL161BGSM2	0345416260	21574649	Pope Joan: A Novel	Books	5	17	20	N	N	A well-told and poignant story.	Taking the legend of Pope Joan as a seed, Cross has written a plausible and very readable tale. It is a tale to strike terror and pride into the heart of any modern woman of intellect, for it is the story of an  intelligent woman - born in the times when women were property, chattels,  strictly limited in the roles they could play in society - who breaks free  to attain one of the greatest positions of power in her world.<br />Joan is  exposed to learning only by accident, through her brother's tutor. She must  defy an abusive father, and a mother who would limit her for her own  safety, in order to follow her compulsion to learn more. When her brother  dies, she daringly takes his robes, and takes up his identity in order to  go further in her studies, and in the church. <br />This is a well-told and  touching story. The veracity of the legends behind Pope Joan is  questionable, but that is irrelevant. IF Pope Joan was real, this is how it  COULD have happened. And in that spirit, it is extremely well-done. A very  satisfying book.	1999-12-02
US	53027693	R2G0GOFCG1SPLA	0385491832	352044771	Motherless Brooklyn	Books	5	41	45	N	N	A darkly comic tale, with a detective with a difference.	Lionel is one of four orphans from St. Vincent's who are recruited by a small-time New York hood for grunt work. Afflicted by Tourette's, Lionel drives most people crazy, but he tickles his mentor's sense of humor. All  four orphans (the &quot;motherless Brooklyn&quot; of the title) look up to  their leader, but Lionel's admiration includes a large component of  unstated love. <br />When his father figure is murdered in the street, Lionel  is the only one of the four no-longer-boys with the intellect, loyalty, and  determination to find out what really happened.<br />Previously a science  fiction author, in this book, Lethem takes off into reality like a rocket.  The only alien landscape we view here is the inside of the  Tourette-inflicted mind, and Lionel is as alien as it gets. But his tics  and hollers are the fuller realizations of our own small compulsions and  fascinations. They bring the reader right into his mind and body. Despite  the pace of the action, and constant plot twists and developments (he tells  this story walking, alright) his is an internal journey, and very  human.<br />This is an absolutely riveting good book.	1999-11-29
US	53027693	RTCHK224W6GNE	0140374396	120708575	The Magic Circle	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A short but poignant tale.	This is a haunting little story of courage, pride, and redemption. Although the story sits loosely on the framework of the tale of Hansel and Gretel, it is a different story altogether.<br />This is the story of an ugly,  hunchbacked woman, with a deep appreciation of the beauty which she will  never have. Through love for her beautiful daughter, and the wish to give  her beautiful things, the Ugly One (as her neighbors call her) is tempted  into the dangerous healing arts, and dealings with devils. And devils are  always tricky...<br />The story is told in lyrical, lovely prose which adds to  the sense of magic and antiquity. It is a gripping, short book, that is  difficult to put down until its wrenching end. The story examines the  concept of personal pride closely, with some religious overtones.	1999-11-24
US	53027693	R2SAMCO88NG5Z7	0878423524	809229033	Sand	Books	5	19	19	N	N	An uplifting tale of one man's redemption.	There's a big distance between an alcoholic dandy from the city, with too much money and too little ambition, and a cowboy that's a good hand on a ranch. But that is the journey that Bert Tilden, nicknamed the Corpse by  his decadent city friends, decides to attempt.<br />Accidentally lost on the  prairie, Tilden stumbles into a cowboy camp. The skills and values that he  finds there awaken him to a whole new world. Tales of a beautiful and  uncatchable wild black stallion raise the determination in his mind and  heart to be the one to capture the legendary horse.<br />This is the story of  one man's internal odyssey, and of his quest for a horse - and love. But  the journey turns out to be far more important than the goal.<br />Of course,  the story is told in Will James' inimitable Western prairie jargon, giving  it the ring of the wide open spaces. You can almost smell the sagebrush.  Wonderful.	1999-11-23
US	53027693	R12Q4REHCFOVVJ	0689716826	534522790	Smoky the Cow Horse	Books	5	33	35	N	N	An absolutely fabulous horse story,  with stunning sketches!	Will James obviously knows horses inside and out.<br />Inside of a horse:  James manages to put the reader right into Smokey's head throughout his adventures. Smokey is a bright and beautiful wild &quot;mustang&quot;, who  is caught and barely half-broke by a cowboy to work range cattle. He and  the cowboy, Clint, develop a special partnership, and Smokey becomes a  minor legend among the local cowboys as the savviest cowhorse out there.  Then fate takes a downturn when Smokey is stolen, and an outraged and  heartsore Clint searches for his horse.<br />Outside of a horse:  Will James  drawings of Smokey are more alive than most living horses! They are loaded  with action, personality, emotion, and the perfectly true portrayal of a  horse in motion. As good as the book is - and it is wonderful - the  sketches and paintings are perhaps even better!<br />This is a story of hard  work and good fun, courage, trust, affection and loyalty. It's a great book  for kids and adults alike.	1999-11-17
US	53027693	R3JIGAWKFSDYTM	0333187911	917261227	Dogsbody	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A wonderful girl and dog story, and a unique fantasy.	Kathleen's mother is dead, and her father, an Irish terrorist, is in prison. She is living with her father's brother's family, in England. Despised by her peers for being Irish, despised by her aunt as an unwanted  burden, she is a modern-day Cinderella.<br />Sirius is a star. We know of it  as the dog star. In this fantasy, Sirius is a living being, that lives in  the sphere of the star. He is in big trouble, accused of murdering a lesser  star by using a celestial weapon to cause his sphere to go nova. Wrongly  convicted of the murder, Sirius is condemned to a dog's life - and death -  on Earth, unless he can find the missing weapon and return it to the  stars.<br />The story of Kathleen and Sirius' relationship, and Sirius' quest  to return to the skies is touching, funny, and amazingly believable. The  tale is filled with adventures and trials, and has action enough to engage  any kid. It also deals with poignant human relationships, and touches on  legend in a manner guaranteed to engage most adults.<br />This is a wonderful  story, and a great read for nearly anyone.	1999-11-15
US	53027693	R2YE6WWOJMB2AW	0393307069	659543252	Post Captain (Aubrey/Maturin)	Books	5	45	47	N	N	Adventure, romance, the sea, and capital comic wit combined!	What absolutely delicious reading this is! Master and Commander was excellent. This is even better. I cannot believe how very, very funny O'Brian can be!  <br />There is a little scene in the beginning of this book  where he briefly describes Jack's horse, a \\"sullen gray gelding\\" who spends  most of his time \\"mourning his lost stones\\", and the horse's train of  thought, something like, \\"Sits too far forward at a jump, I'll have him off  sooner or later... Oh, a mare! A mare!\\"  I just laughed myself to tears.<br />It  is rare to find a book that has such a rich blend of various ingredients.  O'Brian's insights into the wide variety of human personality (not to  mention equine!), his quirky sense of humor, his excellent portrayal of the  ways of life in that time, the politics, the navies, the ships, all are  tied together, and blend beautifully into this absorbing human drama.<br />I  think I'll have to read them all!	1999-11-05
US	53027693	R3UN9PRHE2S269	0670827592	276032073	The True Story of the 3 Little Pigs!	Books	5	29	29	N	N	A beautifully done spoof on the 3 Little Pigs!	This is an irresistibly silly, great work of comic art!<br />Yes indeed, there is always another side to a story! A. Wolf explains his side of the classic tale in an almost plausible and sympathetic way. It was all an  accident! It wasn't his fault! He didn't mean to sneeze those flimsy little  houses down, and now would you have him walk away from a perfectly good ham  dinner?<br />This book is great fun to read, and the art contains amazing  little extras that add another layer to the humor. Of course, the audience  has to know the old version of the 3 Little Pigs story; not one of the  modern, watered-down, nobody-gets-hurt modified versions...<br />A perennial  favorite.	1999-11-03
US	53027693	R1VIEE43QHCV6B	0345311485	12581581	On the Beach	Books	3	18	21	N	N	A very interesting and possible take on a nuclear apocalypse	This novel gives a very possible, and frighteningly probable, view of the way things could easily end up, as small and unstable countries enter the  growing club of nuclear armament. The most eery (yet unfortunately  difficult to swallow) aspect of the book is the refusal by many of the  supposedly intelligent characters to truly absorb the reality of the  situation. Bit by bit, over the space of a couple of years, radiation is  slowly drifting across the equator from the heavily bombed, destroyed, and  radioactive northern continents, to invade and kill the southern half of  the globe in turn. But people continue to plan for the future, and act as  though that future will come.<br />Unfortunately, the characters are so  2-dimensional, and act such trite and ordinary roles, that they failed to  come alive for me. I never could quite believe in their reactions, either.  That they could so fully split their consciousness of the approaching  radiation from the actions of their daily life boggled my mind, and blew my  suspension of disbelief. <br />Sorry. Great concept, unconvincingly executed.	1999-11-01
US	53027693	R1Y8OQZ56FIV0W	0679433740	331831848	Paradise	Books	4	7	8	N	N	An emotional and poetic tale of resurrection.	This is a harrowing story. A small group with a big dream has taken off to create their own paradise on earth. The original group is a brotherhood of  black men and women of near-direct African descent, racially pure,  &quot;8-rock&quot; dark. Rejected by whites and even blacks of less pure  descent, they found their own, closed community.<br />But like all racially  closed communities, they have their own excellences and their own bigotry.  Ultimately, they begin to see their own flaws.<br />The women that gather at  the Convent are a symptom of all the ills of the society the small town  tried to escape. Rejected by the town, and leaning on each other, they  manage an escape of their own, and perhaps attain a more meaningful  paradise - in the real world.<br />As usual, Morrison's writing is lyrical and  laden with emotional imagery. However, characters are never truly  developed, the highly symbolic scenes are difficult to string together into  a storyline, and events are difficult to decipher. It is a challenging and  difficult read, but a gripping story.	1999-10-29
US	53027693	R1DAR39E7T1QD4	0213763028	178646783	The Horsemen	Books	5	13	17	N	N	A fearful tale of cruelty, arrogance, ordeal, and ego.	A unique look at the stubborn inner self, and self-punishment. And a revealing view of humankind.<br />A proud and savage prince has been trained all his life to win a game that goes beyond a game. He is an outstanding  athlete, his father raises outstanding horses, and he and his horse have  been groomed and trained to win. Nothing less. <br />This is the tale of a  struggle to deny reality. It is a painful, frightening, revealing, gripping  story, and nearly impossible to put down.  I have never forgotten it,  though I read it many years ago, and I doubt anyone else could forget it  either.	1999-10-15
US	53027693	RBM1IR7GWG073	0671019090	549429146	The Tenth Man	Books	3	15	18	N	N	A good tale, but shallow.	This little story is tightly constructed and gripping. A rich lawyer is incarcerated during the war with a bunch of ordinary joes. As a result of hostage-type negotiations, a set number of them are designated for random  executions. The prisoners draw lots to determine those to die, and the  lawyer is one of the losers. Desperate to live, he offers all his estate to  anyone who will trade places. The man who drew the 10th lot takes him up on  the offer, accepts the estate as payment for his life, and has the lawyer  make out a will leaving the wealth to his family. The guilt over this  &quot;act of cowardice&quot; haunts the lawyer to his grave.<br />This story  is hard to put down and gracefully written, but the characters are  relatively flat, 2-dimensional figures. They are useful symbolically, but  not terribly convincing as real people. All in all the tale reads more like  a parable than a novel.	1999-10-15
US	53027693	R173KXVNWBZZ3T	0881848379	959982855	Passage of Arms	Books	5	24	24	N	N	An outstanding human drama.	A humble but enterprising Indian clerk with the dream of owning a bus company accidentally finds out about an abandoned terrorist weapons cache. He carefully and painstakingly sets up their sale through a businessman in  Singapore. In the sale process, an American couple on vacation get drawn  into the affair, and end up on the firing line between Sumatran factions.  <br />Ambler's characters are all beautifully drawn. They are presented, too,  with a finely honed sense of humor, and deep understanding of human nature.  The carefully constructed plot never ceases to turn, and each new episode  is a fresh surprize and delight.<br />I particularly enjoyed the character of  Girija Krishnan, who so loved the buses. And General Iskaq, with his  pondering of just how to best shock and annoy the British and American  consuls. And the Tan family politics. Etc., etc., etc.<br />This book was  great fun, and beautifully well written.	1999-10-15
US	53027693	R2Y0NZ2GQ117G8	0812556356	227039040	Ether Ore	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Well worthwhile for the persistent reader.	My first review of this unusual novel was written after I had doggedly plowed through only the first few chapters. At that point, I thought I would never pick up the book again. Luckily, though, I did. For I found an  extremely engrossing story.<br />More witches (see Black Body, Turk's 2nd  book)! And again, different witches. And the plot picks up and begins to  move faster and faster down into a dreamlike nightmare of different worlds  within different worlds. Contrary, rebellious, devious Melody is also a  lonely and lost adolescent. When her plotting to get sent to Mars (oops,  Marz) actually succeeds, she finds a dreary reality that she wishes to  escape even more than the previous. Yet when she actually BECOMES one of  the ghosts sighted on the ore fields, she discovers that all adventures are  not fun. A time of successively increasing terror ensues.<br />This is an  amazing piece of inventive plotting and imaginative world-building, with  Turk's totally unique and eccentric syntax adding to its aura. And its  ending is as cathartic and poetic as any I have ever read.<br />The beginning  of this book may be a bit rough to swallow, but builds course-by-course to  become a gourmet experience.	1999-09-27
US	53027693	RISDBLE2UNVPY	0525458425	159237966	Stones in Water	Books	5	5	8	N	N	A boy gains inner maturity through a horrible wartime ordeal	On a lark, Roberto and his older brother sneak off with some friends to go to a movie - spending money loaned by a slightly shifty friend. But at the movie, all the boys in the theatre are summarily rounded up and herded onto  trains at gunpoint by German soldiers.<br />This is just the start of a long  and grueling ordeal for Roberto, who learns first hand of the horrifying  brutality of the Nazi regime. Rumors that he had always uneasily dismissed  as too awful to be true are fleshed out before his eyes. The boys are  carefully split up into geographically unrelated groups, the Germans using  Italy's many dialects to minimize the chances of conspiracy in the work  groups. The only one of their original bunch that remains with Roberto is  his Jewish friend Samuele.<br />Like all the drafted boys, Roberto and Samuele  barely manage to survive physically from day to day. But Samuele and  Roberto keep each other alive in spirit.<br />This is a poignant and wonderful  story of trial and determination. Never maudlin, clean and realistic. It is  a beautiful little book.	1999-09-14
US	53027693	R1AMPUL6O55Y86	0553213105	503057596	Pride and Prejudice (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Austen's insightful best!	This is my favorite Austen book, beating out my second-favorite, Emma, by maybe half a mile! Every character is believable and human, and perhaps more importantly, can be understood by those of us of modern times.<br />Elizabeth is entirely lovable because she is NOT entirely perfect. She  has a penchant for mischief and irony that she has obviously inherited or  absorbed from her wonderfully eccentric and hilarious father, and a  slightly over-developed sense of her own worth that springs from her highly  and consciously intelligent observation of all the folks that share her  corner of the planet. But she is also wonderfully honest and capable of  eating crow when she sees the error of her assumptions.<br />Although this is  a beautiful glimpse into the ways and mores of a very different age, it is  also a timeless human drama, loaded with subtle humor.	1999-09-14
US	53027693	R3DM29P0NVIX4I	0345401964	428400581	Exit to Eden	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Starts off into the wilderness, but returns to small town.	This is my least-favorite of Rice's works. It begins boldly, with an over-the-top sexual adventure in the fringes of s&amp;m, but ends up with an unlikely and boringly banal marriage.<br />It is as if Rice had an attack  of conscience (or publisher?) half way through. So the book ends up being  neither a satisfying piece of erotica or romance. Neither fish nor  fowl...<br />I preferred her Beauty books for her somewhat unique brand of  b&amp;d erotica, and on the literary side, her best are not the Vampire  Chronicles, not the Mayfair witch books, but the little-known Cry to  Heaven, and Feast of All Saints.<br />This is neither good nor typical Rice.	1999-09-10
US	53027693	R2EJ0MSRQTKJAM	0812556356	227039040	Ether Ore	Books	1	5	7	N	N	Only worthwhile for the most serious H.C. Turk fans.	Despite the encouraging and upbeat lead-in by Ben Bova, it is soon apparent why H.C. Turk had difficulty in publishing this, his first book. Witticism is piled upon witticism, irony upon irony, wordplay upon  wordplay, to the extent that the first chapters are almost  unreadable.<br />However, to the masochist that persists in reading further  into the book, there are echoes in his characterization of Melody Preece,  and even in her dialogue, of Alba, Turk's outstanding heroine of Black  Body. Also, in places, the overworked language of Ether Ore may remind a  Black Body-obsessed reader (such as myself) of Alba's clever and  clause-laden constructions.<br />All in all, I found it of some interest in  showing where this writer came from, before writing a mind-blowing  masterpiece such as Black Body.	1999-09-10
US	53027693	R3IJATS55GABBG	0515125490	659470638	Judas Child	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An excellent, twisty, compulsive page-turner.	An engrossing tale of kidnap and murder, and the varying flavors of guilt of surviving friends and relatives.  This is a slightly over-ambitious, but compelling tale. I could not put it down. But a few flaws emerge. I think  Ali Cray, one of the main characters of the novel, is never developed well  enough that the reader can identify with her, and there are a couple of red  herrings that are never clarified. A vanished ransom, and political  sub-plot clutter the book to little purpose.<br />But still a very good  mystery, with a couple of beautiful surprizes.	1999-09-10
US	53027693	R37ONQOI5FJ0AL	0345334531	63633228	The Feast of All Saints	Books	5	62	65	N	N	One of her very best.	I have read nearly all of Anne Rice' works - the erotica, the vampire books, the Mayfair witch books, etc. - and this book is second only to Cry to Heaven. Just as in that vivid and lovely book, Rice has chosen a  distinct period of history and an obscure group of people, and brought them  to nearly palpable life. <br />Years after reading this book, it's atmosphere  and clearly drawn scenes linger in my memory. I had never known of the  &quot;gens de couleur libres&quot; of New Orleans until this book. Rice has  done an incredible job of bringing the time, place, and people to light.  And the book brought such an engrossing human drama along with the  knowledge, that it cannot be forgotten.<br />Beautiful.	1999-09-10
US	53027693	R3AMI6PMTZRGEA	0439064864	667539744	Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Not great literature, but great fun.	The overwhelming critical acclaim for these books gave me expectations of timeless greatness! However, the Harry Potter books are simply good fun for kids of all ages.<br />Poor Harry has had the worst summer of his life on the  heels of his first season of wizardry. The authorities at Hogwarts School  for Witchcraft and Wizardry have forbidden the students to use their new  skills in the Muggles (ordinary, non-magic) world, and no one could be more  tempted than Harry, living as he does with some of the worst Muggles in the  world, the Dursleys! Disaster after disaster befalls our underdog hero  Harry, and only his upright character and good friends are on his  side.<br />Back at school, a mysterious monster is on the loose, and the  legend of the Chamber of Secrets, a tale of historical bigotry, has all the  students trembling with either outrage or fear. Harry and his friends soon  realize that they have a large stake in this battle, and that it is more or  less up to them to solve the mystery of the monsters identity and  location.<br />A farcical romp in a hilariously unlikely magical version of  the English boarding school, The Chamber of Secrets is a nicely plotted  mystery loaded with schoolboy humor. Thrills and chills abound, and valor  is tested and ultimately rewarded.<br />This is a good book to pull in  borderline young readers; the vocabulary is not challenging, the action is  nearly non-stop, and it's filled with engaging details.	1999-09-10
US	53027693	R1WZ8TRMJEUI87	0679436405	991276040	The Swiss Family Robinson (Everyman's Library Children's Classics Series)	Books	3	9	11	N	N	More - and less - than a family version Robinson Crusoe.	Similarly to Robinson Crusoe, the Swiss Family Robinson's ship gets hung up on rocks off the coast of a mysterious land. Again, similarly, they manage to salvage some things from the wreck, and provide for themselves  off the land. Here the similarities end.<br />The Swiss Family Robinson plot  line is way less convincing! The entire crew leaves the ship by lifeboat in  the night, and is never heard from again - and no reason is given for their  desertion of just this one family! Oddly enough, their &quot;wreck&quot;  never gets really wrecked, but remains intact enough to plunder endlessly.  Not to mention that since it was stocked to supply a brand new settlement,  it has everything they could possibly need. Fruit trees, livestock, seeds,  tools, even a forge and a little ship! Every time they turn around they  stumble over another food source or other resource! And Mr. Robinson is a  seemingly endless storehouse of knowledge about obscure tropical plants and  animals and their uses.<br />If you are a realist, it is a bit much to  swallow!<br />It is also very religious, and loaded with little morality  speeches. There is nothing about illness, all injuries are minor, and  nobody ever gets depressed with their lot! And all are continually very  grateful for God's providence.<br />It is a very pretty picture of a family  stranded in Eden, all working hard and cheerfully together. Just lovely,  but much more sanitized than the truly convincing story of Robinson Crusoe.	1999-09-03
US	53027693	R3EKPZ31I3YIW9	089966380X	474714897	Prince and the Pauper	Books	5	30	34	N	N	A wonderful classic for intelligent and imaginative kids.	This story has been a favorite of mine since I first read it as a child. I have re-read it many, many times, most recently to two of my children (who also enjoyed it), and it continues to be rich and engaging. Since the  language is true to the era of the story, however, it may put some readers  off. Others will find that the archaic language enhances the tale.<br />A  beggar (Tom Canty) and a prince (Edward Tudor), who look so alike as to be  twins, meet and swap clothes for a lark. But an accident of judgment  stretches the lark into an adventure, and the adventure into a nightmarish  struggle of life and death, honor and dishonor.<br />Hasn't everyone wished  to be royalty at some point in their lives? And especially if you were the  poorest of the poor, like Tom Canty, wouldn't it be your dearest wish as a  child? This is a great and yet fearful adventure, superbly detailed and  believable. It was carefully written in such a manner that genuine history  leaves it possible. One of Twain's best ever.	1999-09-02
US	53027693	RAZYNRJNQQKQS	0006548350	506758476	I am Mary Dunne	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Are you Mary Dunne, too? Internal and chilling.	Is this what the psychiatrists mean when they speak of character dissociation? Throughout a day spent in the emotionally vulnerable state of premenstrual stress, the protagonist continually runs up against reminders  of the most trying times of her life, with disastrous emotional  echoes.<br />An amazing book. The story of Mary Dunne's life is told in the  space of just one day's meetings and memories. And over and over she asks  herself the same question throughout the book that you must ask: Is she  losing her mind? Or is this just a bad and shaky moment, exacerbated by  hormonal changes?<br />Any woman that has ever suffered through a day with the  glibly labelled PMS will recognize Mary's Mad Twin. And among those, many  of us must also identify with her fearful sense of lost identity, and fears  of the wide open edges of mental dysfunction.<br />Frightening, internal,  true-to-life - this is not a book to read in an off-balance moment. But it  is an amazing internal portrait of a woman. It would be an amazing portrait  even if it was written by a woman; how much more so when written by a man!  Yet Moore seems to effortlessly empathize completely and realistically. He  has once again created a wholly believable and poignant character whom we  must follow through the toils of her personal hell.	1999-09-02
US	53027693	R2IB205EWD1DOZ	0586087370	516175373	The Colour of Blood (Paladin Books)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A driving story of a good man in a world turned upside down.	Though he is a cardinal, Bem has successfully managed to avoid the sin of pride, and is attempting to do the will of his god, within his church. Surrounded by gentle and religious people, immersed in the day-to-day  details of his regime, he is totally unprepared for the sudden intrusion of  personal violence in his life. An attempt is made on his life, followed by  his kidnapping and incarceration. Suddenly, he finds himself struggling  against hidden enemies, and struggling to find and feel the will of his  god. <br />This is perhaps the most taut and action-packed of any Brian Moore  novels. Right down to the last word, this book will keep you riveted and  straining. And in Cardinal Bem, Moore has perhaps created one of his most  simply admirable and likeable protagonists ever. But he lacks none of the  inner honesty and complexity that mark Moore's protagonists. In addition to  being an incredibly suspenseful thriller, the book is as emotive and  thought-provoking as anyone could ask. It is a beauty.	1999-09-01
US	53027693	R1D1AJWT7XXTB3	0380715473	338305031	Lies of Silence	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Trapped between two impossibilities!	This story is set in the socio-political turmoil of Northern Ireland. However, it is not about the political issues, but about a very personal dilemma. The main character of this novel is poised on the verge of leaving  his wife for another woman - leaving his homeland, family, and job as well.  The night he plans to break it to his wife, they are held hostage by  political terrorists who threaten to kill his wife unless he bombs the  hotel which he himself manages. His responsibility for the safety of his  hotel staff and guests comes up smack against his guilt at the impending  abandonment of his wife, and responsibility for her safety. He is trapped,  trying to decide what is the &quot;right&quot; thing to do. <br />Love, guilt,  terror, responsibility, and rage against a moral blackmail form the  tortuous emotional landscape of this novel. <br />A driving read.	1999-09-01
US	53027693	R25ZYSEAZ8PLL3	0064407055	505341703	Ella Enchanted (Trophy Newbery)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A delightful and satisfying new twist on an old tale	Ella is a beautifully believable expansion of the simple old Cinderella fairy tale. Did you ever wonder why Cinderella ended up scrubbing the floors in her rich dad's home? Why didn't she just run away? Now you will  understand.<br />This Ella has an engaging personality and plenty of spunk.  But a foolish fairy has given her the &quot;gift&quot; of obedience. Can  you imagine being forced to follow any order? <br />A fascinating adventure  comes to life in intricate and engrossing detail.  We my daughter and I, both loved it.	1999-09-01
US	53027693	RFIU2IAN121DF	0006548369	826602798	Catholics	Books	5	50	50	N	N	A heartrending story of the inner battle of religious faith	This has to be one of Moore's best. I ached with grief for the old Abbot at the end of the book. And I am an atheist...<br />Catholics are coming from all over the world to celebrate the old Latin mass at an obscure spot in  Ireland. Some see it as a religious revival. Some see it as a sign of the  endurance of &quot;hard core&quot; Catholicism. However, the Pope, and  other modern highly place ecumenical figures, see it as trouble. A  rebellion against the new, populist church, and a flagrant  disobedience.<br />A young, modern, American priest is sent to deal with these  old-style upstarts. But can he help but share the genuine sincerity of the  isolated monks - living in utmost modesty on the Island of Muck -  who have  innocently begun the furor? And it comes down to belief in miracles versus  the mundane need for the common good. The brash young American priest comes  hard up against the solid old Abbot of Muck. Dependable, honest within and  without, the Abbot is the only one that knows that his faith is a tenuous  thing.<br />The facts of the plot matter little. The excellent character  portrayals, and the understanding of the internal workings of such  different minds is uniquely Moore. As only he can, he makes the anguish of  the Abbot your own, and brings you with him through the trials of his  decision.<br />Outstanding.	1999-08-31
US	53027693	R1ZGFU5QYR7QVY	0452276322	198793250	The Statement (William Abrahams)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The processes of human judgment laid bare.	In this thought-provoking novel, Moore examines the reality of differing viewpoints. There are definitely more than one or two ways to view his protagonist, and Moore gives us a myriad. He brings the reader into the  heads of the man's prospective assassins, the clerics who have been duped  by the man - some through genuine gentleness of spirit and forgiveness,  some through sympathetic prejudices - for decades, his disillusioned wife,  his supposed friends and accomplices, even the hunted man himself, with his  half-self-deceptions, his hatreds, his rationalizations, his nightmares.  Many facets of human morality, thought, and feeling are all here. All in  all, it is a coolly told thriller, with injustice piled on injustice, and  convincingly real people making the kind of compromised judgments that real  life would force. Many of them start with the same basic premises, but end  up making a completely different judgment of what is right.  This is not a  simple story. It is also, as are all the Moore books I have read,  impossible to put down.	1999-07-26
US	53027693	R16BZTOEY8Z5YP	0312743629	875732010	Some summer lands (Atlan series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Cija's adventures continue through her daughter's eyes.	In this, the last of the books of the Atlan Saga, the reader gains a clearer perspective on Cija's wild adventures. Through the eyes of Cija's mute daughter Seka, we follow Cija through yet more and wilder blunders and  triumphs. Brilliant and clearsighted Seka's tale is poignant and  believable, and always gripping. Loaded with the same shocking detail as  all the books in the Saga, this one manages somehow to be even better.	1999-07-26
US	53027693	R3ARIZCFTF7UJG	0312139829	405507940	The City (The Atlan series)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	More fantastic adventures with Cija!	Cija has escaped to the city where she was born, though she does not at first know it. She returns by way of the slave market, where she is sold, and is rescued only to become a slave/whore in a brothel! As usual, she  blunders from one danger to the next...<br />There are no adventures like  these on this earth, and no adventuress like Cija! She lurches from luxury  to the utmost degradation in the space of a gasp. She is a Goddess, a fool,  a child, and a mother wrapped in one skin, and is an utterly believable and  empathic heroine. As are the other books of this saga, this is sublime  fantasy/adventure!	1999-07-26
US	53027693	R1PFQ7C44IQKAM	0340110007	207425063	Sweet, Sweet Summer	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A mind-blowing post -apocalypse tale.	There are alien spaceships in possession of our planet, but humanity has not improved in the face of a common enemy...<br />Gaskell has created a horrifying tale of the takeover of the planet, but in the microcosm, on the  streets of London.<br />She puts the reader into the head of possibly the most  repellent protagonist I have ever read. The world may be falling apart, but  this London street rat will simply continue to feed on the bits and pieces  of remaining humanity. Is there any hope that he will develop a human  conscience?  Become capable of love?<br />This is a fascinating, repellent  work, unfortunately unforgettable.	1999-07-23
US	53027693	R2V93OSAFFYMHH	1561387428	571846578	A Little Princess: Being the Whole Story of Sara Crewe Now Told for the First Time (Courage Classics)	Books	2	28	41	N	N	A re-write of a classic. Why?	The original book was a favorite of mine in my childhood, and, when I returned as an adult to re-read it to my own daughter, I discovered it all over again.<br />It is a story about a different kind of princess than one  might imagine; a princess that is an orphan - lonely, cold, hungry and  abused. Sara Crewe begins life as the beloved, pampered daughter of a rich  man. When he dies a pauper, she is thrown on the non-existent mercy of her  small-minded, mercenary boarding school mistress. Stripped of all her  belongings but for one set of clothes and a doll, Sara becomes a servant of  the household. Hated by the schoolmistress for her independent spirit, Sara  becomes a pariah in the household, with only a few secretly loyal friends.  But through her inner integrity and strength of will, Sara Crewe maintains  the deportment, inner nobility and generous spirit of a &quot;real&quot;  princess. <br />It is a fabulous story of the triumph of human will, and of  good over evil. <br />This story is a real classic, and needs no re-writing to  be as enjoyable and readable today as it ever was. Ask my 8-year-old  daughter, who has already re-read the original twice. Accept no  substitutes, re-writes, abridgements or copies! &quot;A Little  Princess&quot; is a work of art, and should not have been tampered with.	1999-07-12
US	53027693	R2V2ZPFND0PVKH	0064401871	571846578	A Little Princess	Books	5	183	186	N	N	One of the greatest children's stories of all time.	This book was a favorite of mine in my childhood, and, when I returned as an adult to re-read it to my own daughter, I discovered it all over again.<br />This is a story about a different kind of princess than one might  imagine; a princess that is an orphan - lonely, cold, hungry and abused.  Sara Crewe begins life as the beloved, pampered daughter of a rich man.  When he dies a pauper, she is thrown on the non-existent mercy of her  small-minded, mercenary boarding school mistress. Stripped of all her  belongings but for one set of clothes and a doll, Sara becomes a servant of  the household. Hated by the schoolmistress for her independent spirit, Sara  becomes a pariah in the household, with only a few secretly loyal friends.  But through her inner integrity and strength of will, Sara Crewe maintains  the deportment, inner nobility and generous spirit of a &quot;real&quot;  princess. <br />It is a fabulous story of the triumph of human will, and good  over evil. <br />This story is a real classic, and needs no re-writing to be  as enjoyable and readable today as it ever was. Ask my 8-year-old daughter,  who has already re-read it twice. Accept no substitutes, re-writes,  abridgements or copies! This is a work of art, and should not be tampered  with.	1999-07-12
US	53027693	RYCV1NCZHDV21	068884281X	392288812	That Terrible Halloween Night	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A great cartoon book, and a great Halloween story!	Since I first stumbled across this book at Halloween when my daughter was 5, we have gotten it out of the library as a Halloween tradition every year. It's been 4 years now, and I don't think we'll be losing interest any  Halloween in the next few years!<br />It's a bit truly scary, and absolutely  hilarious! We love it.	1999-07-09
US	53027693	R2SBZ16BWZUZSF	0374140960	812190907	The Doctor's Wife	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A disturbingly real tale of a woman's awakening.	Smart, quiet, shy, too tall, Sheila had never been on her own. She went from dependence on her parents to dependence on a husband. After 15 years of marriage, a long-planned 2nd honeymoon sets into motion the chain of  events which leads her away from her safe, ordered, boring existence, and  awakens a desire for autonomy.<br />Moore's cool, precise, detached prose  steers the reader through an emotional storm. If anything, this coolness  enhances the intensely erotic scenes in the story.  As always with Brian  Moore, the tale seems to be driven by its own internal workings, and the  personalities of its characters. Yet the ending is neither staid nor  predictable. You will not be able to put this book down easily, or to put  it out of your mind until long after you have finished reading it.	1999-07-09
US	53027693	R11MM295B3EEB8	0062050354	385138899	The Man in the Ceiling	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A fabulous, funny, feel-good story!	This is an absolutely wonderful work of art! The poignant story of a boy's discovery of his own ability to push past failures to accomplish something difficult is studded with laugh-out-loud portraits of family members, and  hilarious episodes of family life. It is filled with truth and love. And  the cartoons and illustrations are an entirely wonderful addition to the  story. They are excellent in their own right, and add immeasurably to the  tale.<br />My daughter picked this book out of the library at random, was  glued to it for a day, and told me I should read it. Boy, was she right!  Try it, and see if you don't come up laughing and crying at the end.	1999-07-08
US	53027693	R1PXAKF453KK0X	0525481788	94240975	Great Victorian Collection	Books	5	7	8	N	N	An intense, internal, emotional rollercoaster  ride.	In this dreamy, strange little tale, a relatively ordinary man struggles to escape his seductive but limiting fate. <br />Tony Maloney has a dream which comes true. Fabulous! But, like King Midas, he finds that this gift  is not the ultimate joy he first thought. Tony wakes up to the reality of a  precious collection of Victoriana - and cannot leave it. He fights to free  himself from his precious burden, and finds that things are even worse than  he thought. His abandonment of his treasure causes it to be damaged, and he  cannot bear the pain of watching its deterioration.<br />Moore has taken an  unlikely premise, and uses it to produce an oddly believable tale of inner  torment. Maloney's inner sense of artistic integrity and his sense of the  value of his treasure become the means of his punishment. <br />As in the  other Moore novels I have read, the story seems to drive itself through its  inner logic, and is simply a gripping, haunting story, independent of any  moral message.  <br />Similar to &quot;Cold Heaven&quot;, the protagonist  struggles against an unknowable greater power to assert free will. This is  an excellent read.	1999-07-07
US	53027693	R252ZKMB26OKQ5	0679417796	501395694	The Alienist	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An intriguing peek into the past.	Some nice little cameos of turn-of-the-century historic American characters, including Teddy R., and a fascinating portrayal of the city of New York at the time, raise this murder mystery above the crowd. It also  gives a very interesting look at the evolution of the modern approach to  abnormal psychology, and the use of psychology in the solution of serial  crimes. <br />It also rubs the reader's nose in the ugly realities of earlier  city life in a way that will make you appreciative of every social  institution and government institution out there in modern times!<br />An  excellently written and gripping story. Its only real weakness is in its  ending, which lacks a sense of real closure.	1999-07-07
US	53027693	RGGS5VE1TLE14	0395705614	370147627	Venus Among the Fishes	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An excellent shift in perspective.	This tale of a dolphin adventure is beautifully done. The details are solidly based in fact, and presented without excessive scientific jargon.  It gives the point-of-view of a dolphin with just enough anthropomorhising  to allow the reader to identify with the animal. It also presents the  plight of our sea mammals without being overly maudlin. A delicate touch.  <br />I bought this book for my 8-year-old daughter, but both of us enjoyed it  hugely.	1999-07-02
US	53027693	RMD553MB7LLOD	0440204739	51479272	Missing Madonna, The	Books	1	5	12	N	N	A too sweet&amp;silly narrative.	A poor-to-average attempt at a murder mystery. The main characters are too cute, the murderer too obvious, and the entire story is too dull. I read this simply out of curiousity to see if the author, who is a nun, could  bring an interesting perspective. Alas.<br />It's not terrible, but neither is  it good. <br />Sorry, Sister.	1999-07-02
US	53027693	R3VA19YY3DMPCX	0679416781	152918541	The English Patient	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A dreamscape.	This book feels much like a dream, with bits and pieces of its various storylines falling into place over the length of the novel. The language is lovely, though frequently pretentious. It is full of contemplative  observations and philosophical meanderings, along with the bits and pieces  of the several plots. This is sometimes overdone. But the book nonetheless  sets a beautifully dreamy atmosphere for the reader.    I was not surprised  to see criticism on the factual aspects of the book; the youth of the  nurse, and several other bits and pieces of the novel struck me as rather  &quot;off&quot;. However, the human drama of the stories still holds merit.	1999-06-28
US	53027693	RKW7R1NOY6M52	0385319673	247672694	Red Dragon	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Unforgettable pictures from a killer's mind.	This is a masterfully done piece of writing. Utterly believable, horribly wrenching. I read both this book and &quot;The Silence of the Lambs&quot; many years ago. Funny, I can't remember what &quot;Silence&quot; was about.  But poor Frances Dolarhyde's tortured childhood, and the twisted fantasy  that possessed his brain will never leave my memory. Nor, unfortunately,  will the memory of the stark horror that the story invoked.	1999-06-28
US	53027693	R2ZMF5QBEJC2DA	0380009471	464846845	The Dollmaker	Books	5	15	19	N	N	A painful, shattering tragedy, beautifully written	This is a haunting story. In it, a unique woman with clear and powerful dreams and goals, betrays her self by listening to the advice of the average folk who surround her. In following their advice, she forever loses  her chance of attaining her own dreams, and also betrays and loses 2 of her  children - one of whom returns to the land they left, one of whom,  tragically, dies.<br />This is one of the most painful books I have ever  read. At the beginning of the book, Gertie is portrayed as nearly  superhumanly powerful in her determined success in saving her youngest  child's life.  Then Gertie forces herself to give up her lifelong dream of  owning her own farm - when it is almost within her grasp! - to follow her  husband into the ugly heap of industrial Chicago in the name of the war.  She does this because she is convinced by vast numbers of average folk that  it is the RIGHT thing to do. She convinces herself that her private dreams  are mere selfishness, and that she should sacrifice them to &quot;follow  her man&quot;.<br />Echoing the same mistake again later, she bows again to  popular opinion, and banishes her most beloved and unique child's imaginary  playmate. As an indirect result, her daughter dies. Fleeing to play alone -  where none can hear/watch her with her imaginary playmate - she has a  horrific accident in the train yard, and dies nightmarishly in her mother's  arms. And yet, Gertie does not see that these betrayals of all that is most  unique, sensitive, and artistic at her core is evil. Instead, she continues  to see it as self-scrificing, when she is killing the best self she could  be and sinking into the dross around her. Symbolically, at the very last,  she gives up her beautiful cherrywood carving of Christ to be cut up to  make mass-produced dolls; her final betrayal. Ah, no wonder she could never  see his face!<br />This story will never leave me. In many ways, I wish it  would. But it teaches a hard lesson; that to be true to anything, one must  be true to oneself. To a religious reader, it truly brings home the lesson  of the parable of the talents. One must not misuse or waste the gifts of  talent given by the creator. But, oh, poor Gertie!ng, one must  be true to oneself. To a religious reader, it truly brings home the lesson  of the parable of the talents. One must not misuse or waste the gifts of  talent given by the creator. But, oh, poor Gertie!	1999-05-28
US	53027693	RH0HF0NBCGPPH	0486270874	94879300	A Dog of Flanders: Unabridged; In Easy-to-Read Type (Dover Children's Thrift Classics)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A haunting story	I have had a little copy of this book with 2 other Ouida tales in it for years. It is a perennial favorite of mine and my children in spite of, or perhaps because of, its shamelessly emotional nature. <br />The writing is  lyrical and lovely, as are the illustrations.	1999-05-18
US	53027693	RIPPI23PAPP9Y	0374332657	159975375	Holes (Newberry Medal Book)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	This ironic, poetic, fabulous story ain't just for kids!	A lovely piece of black comedy with light at the end of the tunnel!! This book is touted as a children's book, but it's a bit much for the average kid, and definitely beyond sub-average readers. Meticulously structured,  this tale blends realism and legend into a wondrous gypsy recipe.<br />The  stench of foot odor, pigs, and onions come up against Kissin' Kate Barlow's  spiced peaches. And love and the underdogs finally prevail against an  ancient curse and a modern obsession. It's funny, painful, sweet/sad and  strange.<br />A richly complex, compulsive page-turner of a story, which comes  together bit by bit, hole by hole, to make a whole, horrifying, satisfying  tale.	1999-05-08
US	53027693	RS7MVT2R8X6QO	0380725231	573028455	Coyote Blue	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A mischievous romp with an ancient Indian god !	This is a non-stop rout, chock full of irreverent fun. The story is a gas on its own, but as if that were not enough, it is sprinkled with hilarious modern-day hybrid versions of ancient Indian legends with an authentic  feel. Christopher Moore steers this high-powered beauty with a sure hand  and a light touch. It is just right!	1999-05-07
US	53027693	RKR442346DVA8	0525484221	115400111	The Color of Blood	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A driving story of a good man in a world turned upside down.	Though he is a cardinal, Bem has successfully managed to avoid the sin of pride, and is attempting to do the will of his god, within his church. Surrounded by gentle and religious people, immersed in the day-to-day  details of his regime, he is totally unprepared for the sudden intrusion of  personal violence in his life. An attempt is made on his life, followed by  his kidnapping and incarceration. Suddenly, he finds himself struggling  against hidden enemies, and struggling to find and feel the will of his  god.<br />This is perhaps the most taut and action-packed of any Brian Moore  novels. Right down to the last word, this book will keep you riveted and  straining. And in Cardinal Bem, Moore has perhaps created one of his most  simply admirable and likeable protagonists ever. But he lacks none of the  inner honesty and complexity that mark Moore's protagonists. In addition to  being an incredibly suspenseful thriller, the book is as emotive and  thought-provoking as anyone could ask. It is a beauty.	1999-05-07
US	53027693	R245YNF6JVFSCE	0452278678	233730461	Cold Heaven	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An amazing, eerie thriller, with depth and feeling.	Reading this book is like being caught in a nightmare. The tale is intensely gripping - an emotional roller coaster. Moore is a storyteller without peer. His language is clear, and draws no attention to itself. He  simply puts you right into the head of his protagonist, and carries you  along with her, as she battles with her conscience, her fear, death, and,  ultimately, heaven itself. Beautifully done.<br />This was my first  electrifying experience with Brian Moore. More Moore!	1999-05-07
US	53027693	R1RMCAC0IOZE04	0452279593	699079153	The Magician's Wife (A William Abrahams Book)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A beautifully understated tale of inner strife.	More fabulous storytelling from Brian Moore.  An intelligent and sensitive woman, married to a controlled and remote, but fascinating man, Emmeline is bored, self-indulgent, contemplative, and aware of all of these. Thrust  into an episode in high society, she is seduced by its glitter and facade  of importance, and repelled by its cruelty and pettiness. Her husband is  recruited by the Emperor himself to use his magician's illusions to overawe  the superstitious and religious people of Algiers. Reluctantly impressed  with the beauty and simplicity of the Algerians way of life, and humbled by  their religious sincerity, Emmeline finds her already strained loyalty to  her husband tested further by her sympathies for the people he intends to  dupe.  <br />Moore does a wonderful job of carrying us along in Emmeline's  inner struggles with her best and worst selves. She faces her own petty  fascinations with social foolery and meaningless connections, and struggles  to act on her inner sense of rightness. At the same time, she does not  spare herself the knowledge of her own weaknesses. <br />Wonderfully crafted  and absorbing - as have been all the Moore novels I have read so far.	1999-05-07
US	53027693	R3GHZTG3OTUZDW	1881287122	636076051	Old Black	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A great story that should have been a better book.	The story in this book is powerful enough to hold a reader in spite of poor presentation. It's a story about an equally unique boy and horse, united by chance. Both are good at what they do, a cut above the rest, but  not flashy. Together they are faced with the toughest test they have ever  known, and come through with flying colors.<br />The book's front flap review,  however, is the best piece of writing in the book. The author writes clear  and gripping action episodes, but organizes the book poorly. Background  info, recollections of past events, and slightly preachy social commentary  clutters and slows the story line.<br />It still manages to be a rewarding  read, and worth the patience you may have to summon through the tedious  parts.	1999-05-05
US	53027693	R2HPV7ID2QEXP9	0440424852	934485084	The Famous Stanley Kidnapping Case	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A children's adventure complex enough for any adult.	This book is that rare treat - a children's book that is so multi-faceted and well told that it will capture any adult reader as well.<br />I found this book looking for something good for my daughter to read, then couldn't give  it up to her until I had finished it! A tense, realistic, and heartwarming  tale.	1999-04-05
US	53027693	R6Q8MTQA95JAJ	0689718489	515994556	Black and Blue Magic	Books	5	14	15	N	N	A forever favorite.	I loved this book as a kid, and went looking for it to feed to my daughter, a voracious and advanced 8-year-old reader. She loved it as much as I had. And together we are discovering the rest of Zilpha Keatley  Snyder's books. I don't know who is enjoying these more, me or her! They  are absolutely wonderful, every one of them. Thank you forever, Ms. Snyder.	1999-04-05
US	53027693	R380HY6LEXV6FT	0606005277	348367148	The Witches of Worm	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A lightly surreal, slightly creepy, adventure.	A great story from any perspective! My daughter loved this as a creepy adventure story. From a parent's point of view, though, it is a great piece about a child's discovery of her own responsibility for her actions.	1999-04-05
US	53027693	RVN822N200MEW	0440409152	165635532	Blair's Nightmare	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Another adventure with the Stanley kids	This is a gripping tale of children's loyalty to each other and a frightened and fearful dog. An adventure with self-discovery - one of Ms. Snyder's specialties. As are all of hers, this is a wonderful page-turner.	1999-04-05
US	53027693	R2PKL7MFK4M7KT	0151002584	75363464	Ingenious Pain	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Beautiful and moving.	This is a first novel? Fantastic! The language is so rich with sensory imagery, and the rhythms of its structure so musical that it borders on poetry. <br />The story, too, is poetic, and one to pierce to the heart. James  Dyer is born without the ability to sense pain or pleasure. As such, he is  not truly human. He knows no sympathy or empathy, and therefore no love, no  joy, no sadness; how could he?<br />When he is finally &quot;fixed&quot;, and,  as an adult, is basically re-born to natural pain and pleasure, all the  accumulated experiences of his flesh, throughout his life, are still to be  felt. And it drives him temporarily mad. And yet, in his agony, he still  knows that he has been saved from an incomplete existence.<br />This is a  complex and beautiful book, that illuminates the richness of ordinary human  life, through its discovery by an extraordinary man. <br />Not for  intellectual or emotional lightweights.	1999-03-29
US	53027693	RKC0D2JLHARA7	0449221482	753000717	J Is for Judgment (Kinsey Millhone Mysteries)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A fun romp with a most appealing private detective.	This is the first Sue Grafton book I have run into, and will not be the last. The plot is a little over-complicated, and the ending a little on the philosophical side for an action/mystery read of this sort. But the central  character, Kinsey Millhone, is the most realistically drawn, convincing and  sympathetic female private dick I have EVER run into! V.I.Warshawski, go  jump in a lake! I'll never resort to your mealy-mouthed politically correct  milk-toast kind of non-humanist feminism again! Since I understand this is  not by any means one of Grafton's best, I will have to investigate the  other books of the series. Thank you, Sue Grafton, for a female protagonist  that doesn't embarrass readers of the same gender.	1999-03-12
US	53027693	R2VGMAR79C00UO	1573220825	89472327	An Instance of the Fingerpost	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A complex and engrossing interweave of genres and stories!	What a rich and riveting read! With a deceptively low-key opening, the reader is drawn gently into the mystery of a murder and a framing. The reader also must sift through the various accounts of the happenings to  re-interpret and separate the reality from the perceptions and  rationalizations of the various narrators. Pears has done an amazing job of  portraying utterly different historical characters so believably well! Each  narrator is a thoroughly grounded person of their time and place, with each  their own attendant beliefs of what is right and proper, each the  appropriate educational background, superstitious and religious beliefs.  All of them are convincingly real. And of course, through each of them we  get the &quot;feel&quot; of the time and place, and an understanding of  their reality.<br />I am loving this book! I am perhaps a third of the way  into Wallis' narrative, and of course, panting to know the ultimate truth  of Grove's death and the real story of the  Blundys' life. I am also  beginning to wonder about the full story of Marco da Cola. And I cannot  help but hope that Jack Prestcott ultimately suffers an agonizing and  humiliating death even after the conclusion of his narrative...	1999-03-05
US	53027693	R1TV50TSJYN4FN	0898702682	903674976	Joan of Arc	Books	5	212	214	N	N	The inspiring and poignant tale of a lasting heroine.	I read Twain's Joan of Arc simply because it was included in a collection with 2 of my perennial favorites: The Prince and the Pauper, and A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court. I loved Joan of Arc also. But it  is a very different cup of tea.<br />Nowhere else does Mark Twain rein in his  irreverent spirit as in this work! He allows his sense of humor to emerge  only in the stories of Joan's peripheral friends and fellow villagers (the  Paladin, most notably, and even the narrator in the story of the love  poem.) The sense of the author's genuine respect and admiration for his  amazing heroine permeates the book. <br />The story of Joan of Arc, always a  moving tale, takes on greater weight when a man like Mark Twain - a  worldly, cultured, highly intelligent, and totally irreverent man - not  only gives 12 years of grueling research to it, but then produces a book  that is so unequivocally respectful and devoted.<br />Such a picture he draws!  THIS is a character to excite anyone's admiration, and to inspire us all to  give our best selves. And throughout the tale, while one recognizes that it  is indeed a &quot;story&quot;, it rings convincingly true. No matter what  construction a religious or non-religious reader may put on the happenings  of Joan of Arc's story, it is still a story of an enduringly noble  character and amazing intellect. A woman who stood - and still stands -  above the remainder of her species.<br />This is an inspiring and uplifting  piece of work.	1999-02-19
US	53027693	R3VEMYKFJFIQHZ	0940450828	555777400	Mark Twain : Historical Romances : Prince & the Pauper / Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court / Personal Recollections of Joan of Arc (Library of America)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	A fabulous collection of perhaps Twain's very best works!	This collection contains my 2 childhood and all-time Twain favorites - Prince &amp; Pauper, and Connecticut Yankee - and added the magical ingredient of a historical romance I never knew Twain had written - Joan of  Arc. Now that I have read this as well, I see that it may be even better  than the other two! <br />The wry sense of humor characteristic of Twain  definitely is most in evidence in CT Yankee. All 3 of these works deliver  Twain's wide understanding of human nature in different times and  sociological conditions, and his admiration of human nobility and greatness  of heart in adversity. Joan of Arc unquestionably is the most inspiring of  these tales, being the story of the greatest hero (or heroine). The Prince  and the Pauper, however, remains a jewel of an adventure story, which any  child can identify with, and learn from.<br />It is a collection to keep  forever, and re-read frequently.	1999-02-19
US	53027693	R1B0MHLL0D629C	0345419642	630892090	The Vampire Lestat (Vampire Chronicles)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A wonderful immersion in the mind of an imaginary being.	This is the very best of all Anne Rice' writings of the supernatural. Again, here, she exercises her immense talent for empathy and expression of the inner thoughts and feelings of a character. Her language flows  beautifully, and is loaded with sensory detail. Lestat lives on the pages;  a sympathetic and poignant character. <br />This is a fascinating and rich  tale, loaded with historical detail, with the taste and feel of reality. I  found this by far the best of the Vampire Chronicles, and, in all her  supernatural works, approached only by The Witching Hour. It was surpassed  only by Rice' historical fiction, Cry to Heaven and Feast of All Saints, to  be precise.	1999-02-12
US	53027693	R21OB0P9XLIQM9	0394587863	470794658	The Witching Hour	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of her best	An excellent story! Or should I say stories, for there are many tales combined here. What wondrous witches! As usual with Rice, I enjoyed the oldest stories most. The stories of Susanne and Deborah were the best. But  the whole book was great. Cheap ending though; just an excuse for a sequel.	1999-02-12
US	53027693	R2K5SOCJIGPJG8	0345373707	183408691	Cry to Heaven	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The best writing Anne Rice ever did!	I read just about everything Anne Rice has written up to the past 3 years, and this novel is my absolute favorite. It is totally unique and fresh. She takes the voice of a male protagonist, and makes the character so real, so  vital, that this poignant story will never leave you. Whether you, the  reader, are male or female, you MUST identify with this character.  <br />Incredibly sensuous description, and stirringly erotic scenes do not  make this a seamy book, but give depth and reality to it. I am amazed and  moved by the depth of the author's imaginative empathy  portraying this  life in another time and essentially another world.	1999-02-12
US	53027693	R2E7843GAB8HDJ	0679777504	728817726	Oscar and Lucinda	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A bittersweet romance in the inimitable Carey style.	The simple legends of a family's past are brought into microscopic focus to become a moving saga.  Two unique people, each misfits in their society, gradually come together to create an amazing white elephant - a glass  church. This beautiful but impractical artifact, like its creators, is a  misfit, and ultimately flawed. <br />But the object of the book is not the  final results, but the journey. The stories of the protagonists lives are  filled with moving human detail. Each episode strikes a poignant chord.  Through their trials and small triumphs, Oscar and Lucinda come of age to  plan their great achievement.<br />The story illustrates the ability of human  beings to imagine and aspire to divine goals, even if reality intrudes in  the effort to achieve them The book is filled with wonder, high ideals... and  shortsightedness and miscommunications. Ironic opposites abound. Strengths  and weaknesses, the abstract and the actual, churches and gaming hells. And  it is nearly impossible to put down until the last page leaves you gasping!	1999-02-05
US	53027693	R23K9CN1Z7BDJW	0679735984	334038429	The Tax Inspector	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A maelstrom of stories combine in a darkly comic yarn.	Another totally unpredictable masterpiece by Peter Carey. Poor Maria, young, intelligent, beautiful, and gifted so far in her life with financial/career success, is thrust into juxtaposition with the Catchprice  family when she is assigned to audit Catchprice Motors. The Catchprices  seem to epitomize the modern dysfunctional family, a wild blend of  discordant characters commonly saddled with guilt and impossible dreams.  Against the Catchprice backdrop, Maria shines like a diamond.  Unfortunately, the Catchprices are charmed by Maria, too, and their  attempts to bring her into their world are varied and unforgettable.<br />Far  busier and more entangled than Bliss, less uplifting than either Bliss or  Jack Maggs, this is not a book for the faint of heart, or those prone to  depression!  But there is still a thread of hope throughout this tale,  winding through seamy strands of dishonesty and craziness.	1999-01-28
US	53027693	R1AE8Q066UIOZF	0441002617	570030418	The Shape-Changer's Wife	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Poetic and poignant; a delightful and unforgettable read.	The Shape-Changer's Wife is a simple, powerful story of fascination, love, and moral courage. The likeable hero, Aubrey, a gifted student wizard, has run up against a situation that tries his strongest points - his  straightforward morality, and his magic. The language of this lovely story  flows like a poem or a song, and enhances the emotional chords of the tale.  Descriptions are sensuous and visceral, and the reader cannot help  identifying with Aubrey throughout his internal  odyssey. One to read and  re-read, and even to read aloud. Rare.	1999-01-11
US	53027693	R38PA2CIO8QZ1O	0698114205	935903381	The Big Bazoohley	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A children's book just as quirky and unique as they come!	This kid needs more than ordinary luck to get himself and his parents out of a tight spot, but he isn't just going for a fix for the situation; he's shooting for the Big Bazoohley! <br />A book about guts and glory. A childhood  adventure with a touch of magic.<br />Peter Carey brings his originality and  poetic vision to a children's book with all the success he has had in adult  prose. I loved it!	1998-12-28
US	53027693	R3CMDNMGAPEY96	0140077030	383742226	Nights at the Circus	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A sweet and silly surrealist tale with a central feminism.	This story is a fable to be enjoyed on several levels. A journalist, devoted to the debunking of false claims, tackles the legend of Fevvers, the winged woman aerialist at the circus. But in the rarified air of the  big top, things seem to be a little more complicated than just science can  explain. Love and fascination bring him to a totally different way of  thinking, and ultimately, he no longer cares how she weaves her magic  spell, for he is caught up in it.<br />This book is a great read; poetic and  evocative. It is one that will be a lasting favorite of any thinking and  feeling reader.	1998-11-11
US	53027693	R23RK19OULQ8UK	0679440089	572624538	Jack Maggs	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Again, PeterCarey celebrates the triumph of the human spirit	This novel is peopled entirely by people who are the products of  abandoned at birth, parents dead of horrible infections following a  relatively minor injury, and children and spouses abandoned to starvation  and madness. Illegal and death-dealing abortions, &quot;doctors&quot; of  frightening ignorance, destitution, desperation, and the constant struggle  for bare survival were the way of life. <br />In the middle of this world,  Carey has given us two central characters out of the squalid depths of the  meanest part of London; one is a writer who by the very power of his  imagination and determination will make a way to comfort, security, and  fame, AND the other is Jack Maggs, simultaneously a victim, feared  criminal, and, ultimately, a hero. How these two lives collide and change  each other's course make up the center of this absorbing tale.  Yes, there  are some parallels to Dicken's &quot;Great Expectations&quot;, but that is  a minor theme in this human symphony.    This is a very rich, complex  intertwining of stories. It is a fabulous can't-put-it-down non-stop plot,  with bring-tears-to-your-eyes poignant sub-plots in all directions. I can't  recommend it highly enough	1998-11-09
US	53027693	RHTAD7T06PKBN	0679767193	524309685	Bliss	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Black comedy at its best!	At the beginning of this quirky and original tale, Harry Joy thinks he has  it all. He is proud of his children, has a successful career, is still in  love with his beautiful and intelligent wife, is best friends with his  boss. Then, he has a heart attack, and has one of those near-death out of  body experiences where he approaches a zone of complete bliss, and a zone  of complete horror. During his recovery, he becomes convinced that he truly  is dead, and that he is in that zone of complete horror, indeed in hell.  Suspecting this, he begins to find evidence that he is right! After one of  the worst of the revelations, he has an interlude with a young woman who  lives an alternate lifestyle in a much more remote area. He falls in love  with Honey Barbara, and his life begins to change. And then Harry Joy  begins a struggle to truly change his entire life and self, and finally  attain complete bliss. This is a silly/sad/sweet story filled with  surprises, human frailty, and poetic beauty. It is a story to become a  lasting favorite. And, surprise of surprises, the movie matches the book	1998-11-09
US	53027693	R14RGBNYQ6EN6D	044111816X	448868894	Cowboy Feng's Space Bar and Grille	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The old west meets the stars in a smash romantic thriller!	Like Cowboy Feng himself, this story is a blend of  seemingly unrelated things into an unusual and heartily satisfying totality.<br /><br />Love, music, space/time travel, grief, mystery and  espionage sweep the reader off into a world that  only Steven Brust could create. Cowboy Feng's Space Bar and Grille is really the only downtown  place to be.  This is a happening spot, indeed.	1998-08-03
US	53027693	R31X4AGF6BLGNA	0812524985	770509298	The Gypsy (Tor Fantasy)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A fabulous blend of cop thriller and fantasy!	This is a book which blends romance and fantasy most deftly into the grungiest of street-level murder mysteries. <br />  Again, Brust has created a one-of-a-kind fable. His Gypsy and his brothers spring to fully convincing  life under Brust's pen; modern-day (or semi-modern) Romanian versions of the Fates. The unlikely  mix of their street wise and romantic gypsy characters with near eternal responsibility makes them very  appealing. <br /> Brust takes unusual ingredients, and blends them into an addictively delicious invention. Any more Gypsy books to come?	1998-08-03
US	53027693	RDAOV6RVTHFM4	0515120456	999582911	The Dark Room	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Another riveting psychological murder mystery from Walters.	As usual, Walters keeps the reader teetering from one theory to another throughout the tale. And also as usual, she draws complex and interesting  characters. However, the plot and subject matter  are more mundane than some of her other works, though  Walters is never ordinary or dull. Jinx, the  protagonist, brings the reader with her as she  recovers slowly from her amnesia, trying to solve the mysteries of her missing memories, her  apparent suicide attempts, and her friend and fiance's disappearance. Jinx, and the reader with her, is not at all sure who to love, like, trust, fear, or hate - including Jinx herself.<br /> This is an excellent book, though not Walters' best. Fascinating foreshadowings fail to develop in a satisfying way, and the final ending is a little lackluster. But, all in all, still a great read.	1998-07-01
US	53027693	R6XAZIK9CYEXZ	0446404578	661541589	Monkey Wrench	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Mysteries look different to a professional wrestler!	The usually simple formula of a detective story has been hopelessly convoluted by dirty reality, and  Eva Wylie's slightly twisted perception of it. I've   never met a protagonist so ugly, tough, and stubborn,   and she's female! <br /> Eva's arms look a lot better than  her face; the wrestling fans don't call her Bucket Nut (Bucket  Head) for nothing. But underneath her hard-as-nails  exterior, she's way more vulnerable than she wants  to be. Eva ends up using her muscle and street know-how  to try to even up the score in one of the oldest   battles known to the city scene. Prostitutes in the   area are getting brutally killed, and one of them  happens to be the sister of her old sidekick, Crystal.  Crystal wants justice for her sister, and she doesn't  hesitate to manipulate Eva into helping out. Eva   just wants peace - a few good workouts, a wild  fight in the ring now and then, and hanging out   with her junkyard dogs. But Crystal has the tenacity  of a Monkey Wrench, and won't let her be until she   feels her sister is avenged. <br /> It's a non-stop ride  through the seamiest streets of London, with the   most unusual, nasty, oddly laughable and ultimately   admirable heroine I've  ever read. Go, Bucket Nut!!	1998-04-03
US	53027693	RHPQ5OWKFCO3R	0684802449	704818523	The Blood Countess	Books	2	4	6	N	N	This book rubs your nose in the ugliest side of human nature	This book is a confusing mixture. It tells the story of a rather fascinating human monster, but gives the reader no real understanding or empathy for any of its characters. The voices of the book are too removed, too cold. The countess tormented and killed her hundreds of young women with no interest in the reality of their lives and interests; the book chronicles the killings in the same manner, and thus fails to involve the reader. Even the parallel plot line of the modern-day Drake, drawn into the mystical world of immortal evil, fails to involve the reader closely. Too much blood, pain, and perverse excitement, not enough understanding. All in all, it was lurid and adolescent.	1998-03-26
US	53027693	R2LCAO29KXY7CN	0446601934	922692393	The Mummy Case	Books	4	7	11	N	N	A tongue-in-cheek detective story spoof - with cats.	Amelia Peabody may sound like the name of a meek,  proper, Victorian female, but very litte about Amelia is typical of women of her time. Amelia Peabody Emerson is actually a stubborn, headstrong, highly intelligent Egyptian archaeologist, with an unfortunate tendency to clumsiness. So is her husband. And her young son. And each of the three Emersons is convinced that they are correct, and the others incorrect.    In their unique manner, this little family bumbles their way to the heart of both a pyramid and a mystery, both of which are fraught with danger. And let's not forget the help of the cat Bastet...	1998-03-17
US	53027693	R13U24C3GX9EZB	0380712350	119196861	National Velvet	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A childhood classic to cherish for life.	This story is more truly a story about a child than  for a child. It will bring tears to any parent's  eyes. The 14-year-old heroine is a truly selfless<br />idealist, and this story of her single-minded determination<br />to prove the quality of her horse to the world  is<br />inspiring and poignant.<br />I think this story is a timeless classic, and will be<br />enjoyed by anyone with a heart and a love of<br />good narrative.	1998-02-06
US	53027693	R2563NJ97DF9PW	0375400699	702863006	Love in the Time of Cholera (Everyman's Library Contemporary Classics Series)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A splendid black comedy of love. Lush and lively.	This is a book written in rich and beautiful prose.  Even in an English translation, the language is  musical, picturesque and poetic. The book pretends  to focus on an enduring frustrated love; a rejected suitor, who continues to love one woman although she has married another. Instead, for me, the focus of the book is truly on  the other love story within it; on the amazingly  rich, complex, and true picture of the love,  understanding, and pettiness of a long-standing  marital love. For anyone who has experienced  a &quot;good&quot; marriage, this insightful, poetic, comical book is a delight.	1997-11-19
US	53027693	R22KYDNKS2S13H	0445405252	282618499	The Black Dahlia	Books	3	0	3	N	N	Unforgettable human evil pervades its pages.	This is not a great book. The writing is so-so. Characters are poorly drawn. There isn't really a sympathetic or appealing characterin sight. But after many pictures of ugly  Americans involved in thestory, I cannot shake  the vivid diary accounting of the torture of the victim. I wish I could. It brings you too closely into the mind  of a crazy and sick killer. Horrible.	1997-11-07
US	53027693	R1V41L0LDD3R36	0802130208	161411385	A Confederacy of Dunces	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A uniquely American tragicomic masterpiece!	I know I'm just adding to the heap, but, as this is one of my favorite books of all time, I have to comment. Toole has mercilessly  caricatured nearly everyone and everything in his book, giving thereader an exaggerated, but palpable picture of New Orleans'neighborhoods, with neighbors in residence.<br />  Hilarious? You bet! But it is hilarity based on poignancy.  Each new episode that the pompous but pitiable Ignatius  embarks on brings its varieties of sad sacks. Yet you cannot help but laugh. And laugh. But you know, each time I  re-read it, I have to go buy some hot dogs...	1997-11-07
US	53027693	R3A6CXGTD3ARU3	0312956126	936643050	The Scold's Bridle: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An unusual, can't-put-it-down mystery full of human dramas	This book is excellent on many different fronts,  and contains several good stories, artfully interwoven.  Characterizations are great, dialogue is equally so, suspense is whetted, satisfied, and renewed  throughout the story, and an unusual story is made totally believable through the craft of this writer. The narrative is artfully studded with selections  from the victim's extremely colorful diary, and new revelations feed varied speculations and different views of the crime and characters right to the  very end.END	1997-10-31
US	53027693	R3PAKAQZN9IBZ8	0451163060	751088888	The Girl in a Swing	Books	5	21	25	N	N	Some books won't let you forget them. Even if you want to...	She is haunted by a mystery in her past, he is haunted by her beauty, <BR> I am haunted by the story. For this book holds revolting human evil,<BR>  and an incredible, lyrical love - and they are both tied together. <br />    For years after reading it, I could not shake the sensation of horror <BR>  that came over me when I thought again of what had been done. <BR>  How could anyone do it? And yet, the spell of love that is cast in the <BR>  beautiful telling of this story is equally haunting. <br />    This is no average horror story. Readers who find Clive Barker and Dean Koontz <BR> the height of enjoyment may not appreciate the delicacy, and gradual building <BR>   of this lovely tale. <br />    The language of this book is nearly poetic in its beauty.  It is rich with detail,<BR>  complex, and fully convincing. This is a sophisticated piece of work, <BR>  and incidentally, nothing like any of Richard Adams other books. <BR>  (I have read most of them, since after reading this book, I wanted <BR>  to investigate its author.) <br />    This book is a gourmet meal, full of fine ingredients, exquisite flavors, <BR>   and subtle blendings and contrasts. It is excellent.	1997-10-24
US	53027693	R178OY4QIF2WCY	0446600660	976761954	Strip Tease	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A hilarious, no-holds-barred, political spoof!	This book is chock full of snide shots at our fearless governmental leaders, the FBI, and the human  animal in general.  It's also full of action and suspense. Hiaasen's characters and plot twists both often ride a fine line between realism and caricature.   It's a fast and funny read - a can't put it downer -  full of both belly laughs and snickers. Fun stuff	1997-09-19
US	53027693	R108AG0NYKB46A	0879979909	969211332	The Serpent (The Atlan Saga, No 1)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	No other princess-locked-in-a-tower was ever like Cija!	The journey to Atlantis begins with Cija's being freed from the tower in which she spent her childhood. Raised thinking that males no longer existed, and  that women had evolved beyond them and hatched from eggs, Cija is rudely thrust into the real world with the task of seducing and killing the first man she has ever seen.   This is great fantasy by, for, and about an unusual woman	1997-06-25
US	53027693	RSD1WQR6KJ9EO	0441071821	440464083	Brokedown Palace	Books	5	3	6	N	N	A fairy tale, a soap opera, a legend.	This is a wonderful tale of the mystical powers of Faerie,  the power of love, and the acceptance of fate.  It is a rich allegorical soup, with a martyred magical horse, an only slightly  evil wizard, a gentle giant, and no absolutely good or bad guys. It is absolutely wonderful	1997-04-11
US	53027693	R1GC02HT1EJIBC	0441033423	349459379	Athyra	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Brust gives us an outside view of Vlad Taltos	This is the most complex exercise in writing of all the Vlad Taltos books. Instead of Vlad's own wisecracking, hard-boiled, street-smart voice, this book is written from the point of view of one of the alien Dragaerans.  But this Dragaeran is a simple kid,  and a humble Teckla peasant - a very sympathetic character.   The Dragaeran, Savn, turns out to be a very necessary help to Vlad, and saves his  life in a twisted ending, forcing Vlad to see him as a peer and a friend,  making Vlad re-evaluate some of the nastier aspects of his own personality.   Like all the other Vlad books, this one is loaded with action and mystery, with, ultimately, a more mature Vlad emerging as a result of the blood debt. Very satisfying	1997-04-11
US	53027693	R1312T4UWS5MV3	0812506898	61718670	The Phoenix Guards	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Not worthy of Stephen Brust	This book is set in the Dragaeran world that Vlad Taltos moves in; the same setting as in &quot;Jhereg&quot;, &quot;Taltos&quot;, &quot;Orca&quot;,  &quot;Phoenix&quot;, &quot;Teckla&quot;, &quot;Athyra&quot;, have I missed any? All of which books I loved.  But this is a slightly strained attempt to  parody &quot;The Three Musketeers&quot; by Alexander Dumas, an old favorite of mine. Well, I don't think it worked.  Brust's characters act far more outrageously than the originals, and I think the attempt to bend the story to match the original too  closely ruined its believability. It doesn't quite work. Still, it is a well-written piece, and an ambitious attempt	1997-04-11
US	53027693	R1S9L217L1XSJT	055326611X	109024298	Even Cowgirls Get the Blues	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An unforgettable lark; Sissy's giant thumbs hitchike West	Sissy is a beautiful small-town girl with a messed up start, and a pair of giant thumbs.  She can flag any vehicle down with her huge digits, and takes off into the West.   She spends a good deal of time at the Rubber Rose Ranch,  a dudette ranch manned only by cowgirls, financed by douche sales  (a typically Tom Robbins-esque construct which is so silly as to be almost possible). Sissy's introductions to life, love, death, and compromise are a mixture of sweet and sour, comedy and tragedy. A great read	1997-03-19
US	53027693	R1FV1M8AE43VGK	0394577132	84273112	Black Body	Books	5	8	10	N	N	A bizarre and fabulous love story	I could not put this book down.  Two nights in a row, I read into the wee hours of the morning, until I finished the book.   This book invents a new way of viewing witches; as a separate species, not intrinsically evil, whose magic costs them horribly.    The writing is incredibly rich and dense, with old-fashioned, long, syntactically challenging, clause-laden sentences.   Dialogue is full of subtle wit, and almost Shakespearean puns. The story is about a white witch, a sort of genetic sport among witches,   who is incredibly beautiful (in contrast to Turk's standard witches, who are very ugly - a characteristic of the species). The white witch  unfortunately has a horrifying physical anomaly; she is sexually irresistible to human men (though she is uninterested in sex)   but sex with her is a great mistake.  An   expert on witches, the lady Amanda Rathel wants to use this white witch as a weapon.    However, Alba, a very loveable white witch, attempts to surmount her physical self in the name of love.  This book is simultaneously a black comedy, a horror story, and a historical romance, AND the best book I have read in at least a year	1997-03-19
