US	53021951	R3U2SSFODH2SBG	006093736X	817493742	Krakatoa: The Day the World Exploded: August 27, 1883	Books	4	3	3	N	N	History brought to life	This book is a fascinating examination of the eruption of Krakatoa.  Simon Winchester gives a vivid account based on eyewitness testimony of the eruption itself and the destruction that the explosion of August 27, 1883 wrought upon the people living in Indonesia.  The tales of ships trapped in pitch black ash, ships thrown miles into the jungle, waves 150 feet high sweeping people off cliffs that were thought to be safe, and skeletons found thousands of miles away on floating rafts of pumice all help to build a full sense of the horror and tragedy of that day.  Almost 40,000 people died that day, most from the sea waves caused by the collapse of Krakatoa into the sea and Winchester's writing and use of first person sources brings the events of more than 100 years ago to life.<br /><br />The book covers much more than just that one day.  Winchester brings the time to life by discussing the Dutch colonizers and the Javanese who lived under Dutch rule.  We get to meet the people who lived at the time of the catastrophe and experience their lives.  We also get to understand how geologically dangerous the land these people lived on was (and is) by examining how volcanoes arise in the first place.  There are many twists and turns in the story, some fascinating and some less so.  The author looks at the post-Indonesian world, briefly discussing the massacre of some Dutch by Moslem militants but doesn't look more deeply.  The last chapter looks at the new volcano that has arisen where Krakatoa once was and the return of plants and animals to the new Krakatoa and the surrounding islands.<br /><br />Winchester is more than anything else a story teller and less so an educator.  For example, his story of how the theory of plate tectonics was developed is very interesting but his explanation of the theory could have been clearer.  Some of the book drags, for example Winchester spends 15 pages explaining how a telegram announcing the first eruption traveled from Batavia to end up in the Times of London.  This was less than scintillating reading.  The weakest part of the book is the diagrams, maps, and pictures.  There are very few pictures of any of the main characters.  The author describes the effect of the eruption on the island of Rakata in great detail but doesn't give us a photo.  When describing the magnificent sunsets that occurred after the eruption, the author shows us a copy of a painting of one of these sunsets but he gives it to us in black and white.  The map of the Dutch East Indies in the book does not identify any of the towns mentioned in the text and is difficult to interpret.<br /><br />Overall, the book is a very engaging read and although it occasionally wanders off, it is well worth reading.end up in the Times of London.  This was less than scintillating reading.  The weakest part of the book is the diagrams, maps, and pictures.  There are very few pictures of any of the main characters.  The author describes the effect of the eruption on the island of Rakata in great detail but doesn't give us a photo.  When describing the magnificent sunsets that occurred after the eruption, the author shows us a copy of a painting of one of these sunsets but he gives it to us in black and white.  The map of the Dutch East Indies in the book does not identify any of the towns mentioned in the text and is difficult to interpret.   <br /> <br />Overall, the book is a very engaging read and although it occasionally wanders off, it is well worth reading.   <br />	2005-08-04
US	53021951	R1L50UBKQR0F0I	1590591429	118781154	Oracle JDeveloper 10g: Empowering J2EE Development (Expert's Voice)	Books	2	11	11	N	N	Little more than available for free	Sometimes you just get lucky. You write a book about a fairly obscure and expensive Java IDE and then, without any warning, the company that makes the IDE releases it to the general public for free. The book is mostly a summary of the features of JDeveloper and doesn't go in deep into any area. If you are interested in a book to get you started with JDeveloper then this might fill your need. If you are looking for a book to show you the power of JDeveloper and help you get deep into its capabilities then this isn't the book for you.<br /><br />The book has some major shortcomings; first and foremost that it was written using the preview version of 10g. Because of this there are some screen differences and the flow isn't always exactly as described. It would have been better if the author had waited until the final release version. Also, because JDeveloper was formerly a purchased product, there is quite a bit of information available free from the Oracle web site. You can find tutorials, demos, product tours, etc on the Oracle Technology Network (OTN). Finally, the book doesn't cover writing your own custom extensions and instead points the reader to OTN.<br /><br />So what does the book offer? It is a fairly basic overview of the features available in JDeveloper. The author looks at servlet/jsp development, UML, web services, EJB, database interaction, Swing, and a few other features including the Application Development Framework (ADF). It covers everything at a fairly high level so at the end of the book you might not know how to do a lot in JDeveloper but you will know what JDeveloper is capable of doing. There really isn't a better JDeveloper book on the market however. A book about JDeveloper with the detail available in the many Eclipse books is still waiting to be published.	2005-07-22
US	53021951	R1PCV9MSQ9EFWA	1932394125	303952962	JavaServer Faces in Action (In Action series)	Books	3	18	20	N	N	Why the long face?	JavaServer Faces (JSF) is one of the newest technologies in the Java toolbox and is designed to make developing web applications as easy in Java as it is in .Net.  JSF is designed mainly to be used inside of an IDE by dropping JSF components onto a screen from a palette.  This book is an introduction to JSF and although it is far from perfect, it is still a worthwhile read.<br /><br />The book starts with an introduction to JSF with a good overview of the component technology and how it works as well as a brief discussion of some of the IDEs that support JSF.  The next few chapters discuss the components in depth and the book bogs down.  There is too much detail with very little in the way of code samples.  To some extent this might make sense since the components are meant to be dropped from a palette, but at the same time it makes it very difficult to follow along without some understanding of how the components would be used in an application.  Starting with chapter 8, the author tries to put it all together with a sample application.  Unfortunately, it is presented as a development case study instead of a JSF case study.  We get three chapters of screens with no code behind it that includes prototype versions and final versions.  This seemed very unnecessary and helped to inflate the page count.  It isn't until chapters 12 and 13 that we finally get to see some detail code but by then I had forgotten what the screens introduced four chapters earlier were supposed to be doing.  The book ends with a chapter on Struts integration and a chapter on developing your own custom components.<br /><br />There are bonus chapters available on the Manning web site, but since some of the bonus chapters are important to understanding the material in the book, unless you are reading the book while sitting at your computer, this isn't very helpful.  The book would have been much better with some serious editing and rearranging of topics.  The sample application should have been simplified and combined with the component reference material presented earlier.  Code and screens should have been discussed together.  The bonus chapters should have been incorporated into the printed version of the book.<br /><br />I don't want you to get the impression that this is a poorly written or useless book.  In fact, there is a lot of good material here and after reading this book you will have a thorough understanding of JSF.  The author gives very clear (if not concise) explanations but the book is too long and parts are difficult to wade through.en simplified and combined with the component reference material presented earlier.  Code and screens should have been discussed together.  The bonus chapters should have been incorporated into the printed version of the book.   <br /> <br />I don't want you to get the impression that this is a poorly written or useless book.  In fact, there is a lot of good material here and after reading this book you will have a thorough understanding of JSF.  The author gives very clear (if not concise) explanations but the book is too long and parts are difficult to wade through.   <br />	2005-07-08
US	53021951	R2LNCC8PUQQ7UD	0596007124	390771989	Head First Design Patterns: A Brain-Friendly Guide	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Why a pattern?	Disclaimer:  I served as a technical reviewer for several chapters of this book.<br /><br />Understanding design patterns and how they are used in developing an application is a critical skill.  It is important that developers be able to make use of the same lexicon when discussing application architecture.  Books like \\"Design Patterns\\" by Eric Gamma, et al (affectionately referred to as the Gang of Four, or GoF) do well to catalog design patterns and provide this lexicon but they are difficult to use as a guide to learning and understanding design patterns, especially for the less-experience developer.  \\"Head First Design Patterns\\" provides the skills required to learn and understand what design patterns are and how to use them and does it in a fun, easy-to-read way.<br /><br />Although this book does present many of the patterns found in the GoF book, it is not a design pattern catalog.  Its real goal is to help the reader look at their applications in new ways to discover how design patterns can simplify their development efforts.  Patterns are covered in great detail, some may say in almost too much detail, but the end result is a thorough understanding of the patterns under discussion as well as the whole reasoning behind using patterns in the first place.<br /><br />Each pattern is discussed in a similar way.  It generally starts with a programming problem that has been handed to the development team.  They look at a typical, non-design pattern solution and point out the problems with this solution, usually involving issues with making future changes.  The team then starts looking for alternate solutions and discovers a design pattern.  The application is then refactored using the design pattern.  Simplified UML diagrams and easy to follow Java programs are used throughout the book.  All of this is done in an amusing way that will keep the reader interested and not distracted.<br /><br />I can strongly recommend this book for any developer with a sense of humor who wishes to understand design patterns.  Even if you are not a Java programmer, the programs are simple enough for any developer using an object oriented language to understand.  The book does a great job of explaining object oriented design goals and showing how each pattern fits into those goals.  You won't find a discussion of every design pattern known but you will find a highly instructive discussion of some of the most common patterns.  Reading this book will provide you with the skills to understand design patterns and to understand why you should be using them.design patterns.  Even if you are not a Java programmer, the programs are simple enough for any developer using an object oriented language to understand.  The book does a great job of explaining object oriented design goals and showing how each pattern fits into those goals.  You won't find a discussion of every design pattern known but you will find a highly instructive discussion of some of the most common patterns.  Reading this book will provide you with the skills to understand design patterns and to understand why you should be using them.	2005-06-27
US	53021951	R7NH0C2VZ2KK5	0764549863	869971643	XML 1.1 Bible	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Sola Scriptura	Review for XML 1.1 Bible (3rd Edition):<br /><br />Elliotte Rusty Harold is that rare technical author who can write about anything and make it interesting.  In this case, he has written 1,000 pages on XML providing us with an excellent guide book to this technology.  Whether you are a beginner or advanced user of XML, there will be something in this book for you.<br /><br />The book is divided into five parts.  The first part discusses the basics of XML giving us an introduction to what XML is, what it is used for, and explaining the basics of creating a well-formed XML document.  Part two discusses DTDs and explains how namespaces are used.  Part three looks at various style languages including CSS and XSL.  The section on CSS will be useful to anyone wishing to use CSS to format their HTML documents.  Part four gives us a tour of some supplemental XML technologies including XLinks, XPointers, XInclude, and Schemas.  The chapter that most interested me was on Schemas and the explanations were clear and complete, leaving no mystery about how to use this technology.  The final part looks at a few XML applications including XHTML, RDDL, and SVG.  The book does not cover writing programs to process XML documents using SAX or DOM, for example.  The author has another book on that topic if that is of interest to you.<br /><br />Each part of the book does an exceptional job of explaining the topic.  The author gives us plenty of examples to make the text crystal clear.  The author writes as a colleague helping out fellow programmers and not as an instructor droning away at a blackboard.  You really get the idea that the author enjoys XML and enjoys explaining it.  If you are interested in working with XML this book is truly an indispensable guide.	2005-06-24
US	53021951	R32EAHWIUMX7S5	1932394281	242336080	Lucene in Action	Books	5	35	36	N	N	Where did I leave my car keys?	Lucene is an open source, search engine library that provides a sophisticated API that can be used to index documents and provide advanced search capabilities. Although using Lucene is not particularly difficult, like many open source projects, the available documentation leaves something to be desired. This book nicely fills that missing area.<br /><br />The book starts with an introduction explaining both what Lucene is and also what it isn't. The next couple of chapters show us how to use the Lucene classes to index documents and then search for those documents. The authors next show us how to improve our searches by using different analyzers including how to write our own custom analyzers. Custom analyzers can allow, for example, searches using common misspellings or words that sound alike. The book moves on to look at the advanced search features that are available to the developer as well as explaining how to add your own features into Lucene. Since Lucene works only with text data, the authors next show us how to convert various data formats such as Word documents, HTML documents, and PDFs into text formats to allow Lucene to index and search them. The authors wrap up the main portion of the book with a look at some of the tools and extensions available that can provide some nice additional functionality such as highlighting search words in the found documents. The final chapter is a look at some real-life case studies of Lucene contributed by various authors. Some of the writing here is rather weak and seems, at least in some cases, to be little more than ads for the various sites and products.<br /><br />The book is very well written and gives a good in-depth exploration of Lucene. The authors give plenty of code snippets showing the features of Lucene and provide a complete application to review as well. Anyone interested in using Lucene and wants more than the little documentation available should consider getting this book. One thing that annoyed me about the book was the constant pushing of JUnit. Most of the code samples include some traces of unit testing and seeing blocks of code with \\"assertEquals\\" everywhere was distracting to say the least. The authors should have considered that not everyone is using JUnit and that when you are trying to understand code, additional off-topic lines are simply confusing.e about the book was the constant pushing of JUnit. Most of the code samples include some traces of unit testing and seeing blocks of code with \\"assertEquals\\" everywhere was distracting to say the least. The authors should have considered that not everyone is using JUnit and that when you are trying to understand code, additional off-topic lines are simply confusing.  <br />	2005-06-22
US	53021951	RK0GJXKCDWTB5	1890774227	314420390	Murach's C#	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Excellent for teachers and students	This is an excellent book for the beginning C# programmer.  The book uses a \\"paired-page\\" format where the page on the left gives descriptions of a concept and the page on the right provides examples, syntax, and additional information.  Although this does lead to some repetition, overall it provides clearer explanations of concepts that are laid out in front of you all at once.  It also makes it easier to go back, find, and review information read previously.<br /><br />The book starts with a tour of C# which leans heavily on Visual Studio.  The first three chapters cover using VS.NET and very little C# code is presented.  In fact, explanations of how to work in Visual Studio are provided throughout the book.  The next two sections, covering 12 chapters, cover the details of programming in C# and writing object oriented code.  The coverage of OO is excellent and it will remove much of the mystery associated with OO programming.  Database programming using ADO.NET is covered at a good level of detail in five chapters.  The final section covers reading and writing files including using the .NET classes to read and write XML files.<br /><br />In many ways this book provides a level of detail not found in other books with plenty of code samples to help clarify the material.  The only thing not covered is ASP and web forms.  I can highly recommend this book to anyone interested in learning C# or to anyone planning to teach a C# programming course.  The book is well designed as a textbook for a programming class.  It includes objectives, a summary, a list of important terms, and programming exercises at the end of each chapter. A student workbook and an instructor CD are available.	2005-04-29
US	53021951	R1HT26SE6TTX8P	0321305027	224674490	The Java Developer's Guide to Eclipse, 2nd Edition	Books	5	40	45	N	N	The one Eclipse book you should own	The first edition of this book was excellent for plug-in developers and helpful, although not vital, to all others. Two things make this new edition even better than the first edition.  First, plug-in development in Eclipse is now so easy and so well explained in this book that there is no reason why anyone shouldn't be doing it.  Have you ever worked with an IDE and thought, \\"why isn't this function available in the pop-up menu\\" or \\"why doesn't it have this feature\\"?  Developing a plug-in will allow you to customize the functionality of Eclipse to provide the missing feature and this book will clearly explain exactly how to do that.  Second, the section of the book that deals with developing with Eclipse has been improved with detailed chapters on team development including using CVS as well as an excellent example of integrating with Tomcat to develop an E-Commerce application.<br /><br />The book is divided into two sections.  The first 200 pages deal with using Eclipse and cover everything from the basics to complex team development issues.  The next 600 pages cover everything you need to know about extending the functionality of Eclipse.  The book ends with 200 pages of exercises that give detailed, step-by-step examples.  Five exercises deal with using Eclipse while the rest show examples of extending Eclipse.  It is a big book that covers a lot of material but it covers it clearly and with plenty of examples.  If you buy one Eclipse book, this should be it.	2005-01-19
US	53021951	R2AQZ3GLP6ZXSK	0321268199	8803058	Hibernate: A J2EE¿ Developer's Guide	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A good introduction to Hibernate	Hibernate is a popular object-relational mapping (ORM) system for Java programmers. As any Java programmer who has worked with a SQL database knows, trying to link Java objects to a relational database is not a trivial exercise. Hibernate simplifies the task by providing an API and a set of tools that can generate Java classes and link seamlessly to a database.<br /><br />The book starts with an introduction to Hibernate including some details on installation. The author looks at how Hibernate can generate a database schema or it can generate Java classes depending on where you are starting to build your application. XDoclet is discussed with the author pointing out some of the issues with using class annotation. After the introductory chapters, the author gives a good explanation of the details of Hibernate in the middle chapters. The last few chapters look at performance, caching, design issues and other advanced topics. Throughout the book there are many code samples that help to further explain the use of Hibernate.<br /><br />I do have a few complaints about the book. Although performance is discussed, the cost of using Hibernate on performance is not. I would have liked to see some comparisons of Hibernate versus stored procedures, for example. Also, the weaknesses of an ORM are not discussed. Anyone who has worked with an ORM knows that at a certain level of complexity they start to fall apart and make an application overly complicated. It would have been nice for the author to discuss these issues and at least point towards solutions. Overall, the book serves as a well-written and clearly explained basic introduction to Hibernate.	2005-01-18
US	53021951	RXVPQTA2M9Z4G	1932394273	795511404	Swt/Jface in Action: GUI Design with Eclipse 3.0	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Solid coverage of SWT/JFace	SWT and JFace are the graphical libraries developed by IBM as an alternative to Swing to improve performance of GUI applications (specifically Eclipse) written in Java. This book offers a thorough introduction to SWT/JFace. The authors avoid getting into a Swing vs. SWT/JFace debate although they do provide a comparison of the two libraries.<br /><br />The book starts with a look at writing a program in SWT and then rewriting it using JFace. The authors compare the two approaches and give a good description of why you would want to use one over the other. The next few chapters look at the basic widgets, layout managers, event handling, and graphics contexts. Later chapters cover more advanced widgets such as trees, viewers, tables, menus, dialogs, and wizards. The last chapter looks at GUI development using Eclipse's Rich Client Platform. The appendices cover development within Eclipse and integrating SWT/JFace applications with OLE and ActiveX.<br /><br />Overall this book does a great job of explaining SWT/JFace at a good level of detail. The book includes a reasonable amount of code samples as well as UML diagrams that help explain how these libraries work. The authors should have chosen a better sample application to demonstrate use of the libraries and there aren't enough screen shots included which may leave you wondering what some of the widgets look like. Other than these two minor complaints, this is an excellent book to learn how to use SWT/JFace and I can strongly recommend it.	2004-12-22
US	53021951	RJM7UJ0DI70W6	0131482025	955090687	1: Core Java&#8482; 2, Volume I--Fundamentals (7th Edition)	Books	4	14	18	N	N	Seventh Edition - little change	This is the seventh edition of this book and in some ways it hasn't changed much since the first edition.  The first edition was aimed at C++ programmers who were looking to transition to the new language.  The seventh edition is still fast-paced and detailed and aimed for the experienced programmer.  This is not an easy-to-follow tutorial for the beginner programmer.  The authors assume that you already know the basics of programming even if it isn't with an object oriented language.  The book might make a fairly good college textbook but not as a first language.<br /><br />The book covers the main areas that you would expect in an introductory Java book with a few surprises.  The book gives a little bit of the history of Java and shows how to install and run Java from the console and Eclipse (but not NetBeans).  There is an early introduction to reflection but exception handling isn't covered until well into the book.  Swing is covered in a fair level of depth.  J2SE 5.0 changes are covered throughout the book with the many examples written to show off the new additions to the language.  Threading and Collections are not covered but rather are saved for volume two.<br /><br />Overall this is a well written book but the target audience is getting small.  How many C++ programmers can be left that don't already know Java?  If you are looking for an introductory tutorial then this book may be a bit too advanced.  Through seven editions, Core Java has changed little other than to reflect language changes.  Perhaps it's time to rethink the franchise.	2004-12-17
US	53021951	RCMGJ3S4XUB3U	1932394206	346368137	Explorer's Guide to the Semantic Web	Books	4	24	25	N	N	Science Fiction or a possible future?	The semantic web is an intelligent web, that is, a web that can be intelligently used by computers.  There are two things you need to know about the semantic web.  First, it doesn't exist.  Second, it may never exist.  If this isn't enough information for you, and you want to look at what the future may hold in the area of an intelligent web, then I can't think of a better way to get an introduction to the technologies and ideas that may be part of the semantic web than by reading this book.<br /><br />The author of the book takes the layers of the semantic web as proposed by the W3C and looks at each one in turn, skipping over the familiar XML and XML schema layers.  The author starts with the RDF layer and gives one of the best explanations of RDF and RDF schema that you will find.  RDF is the potential meta-data language of the semantic web and the author makes it clear and understandable.  Other than XML, RDF is the most real layer of the W3C layer cake so this section is also the most accessible.  The next chapter delves into ontology which is vaguer and less clearly defined.  The chapter on web services seems a bit unnecessary except as how they fit into the semantic web.  A chapter on how intelligent agents may work is included.  The last section deals with how information may be verified for truthfulness and authenticity.<br /><br />If you are interested in RDF then you may want this book just for that section.  If you are interested in what the semantic web might look like then this book may be of interest.  If you are looking for practical programming samples or ways to build intelligent agents then this isn't the book for you.  This is an explorer's guide for those having no fear to tread into unknown waters.  This part of the web is still uncharted but this book will help you learn what technologies may be used to fill in the missing pieces of the map.	2004-12-17
US	53021951	RBFOL3R8T4F0W	1590592840	132729369	Building Portals with the Java Portlet API (Expert's Voice)	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Solid intro to portals	Portals are becoming more popular as companies are looking for a single web-based entry point into their various applications.  Java provides a standard portal model with JSR 168.  This book is a thorough introduction into JSR 168 that will help get portal developers up to speed into this relatively new specification.<br /><br />The book starts with an excellent introduction into developing portlets.  The first seven chapters cover all the details of developing portlets.  Response and request objects are covered in detail.  The portlet life cycle is clearly explained.  Deployment descriptors are discussed.  Integrating with Servlets and JSPs is described.  The remainder of the book covers more advanced topics.  Anyone working with a portal knows the problems with providing single sign-on to multiple applications.  The authors discuss this issue giving several examples.  The authors cover syndication, searching, personalization, web services, content management, and more.<br /><br />My only complaint with the book is that it uses the Apache Pluto portal, which is not in final release yet.  Pluto is an open source portal but it is complicated to distribute content to it (you are forced to use Maven).  When the book explains how to distribute portlets to Pluto it gets a little confusing because the authors need to explain multiple configuration files, some of which are exclusive to Pluto.  Other than this one problem, the book gives a solid introduction to developing a portal providing detailed information of both the basics and many advanced concepts.  Clearly the authors understand portal development and know how to pass that information on to their readers.	2004-12-13
US	53021951	R3TYE2YPXKBAIU	1932394184	556564068	Java Reflection in Action (In Action series)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Outstanding guide to reflection	There are only a handful of books that every Java programmer should own.  This book manages to enter into that elite group of books by providing exceptional coverage of an area of Java programming that is generally poorly covered and often misunderstood.  Reflection is a topic that many programmers know about but don't truly understand.  Reflection can provide simple ways to get out of complex problems, which makes it well worth knowing.  Reflection is one of those tools that you never knew you needed until you learn it.<br /><br />The authors of this book are a father/son team that have been working with reflection for years.  They attack reflection in small pieces, making each topic crystal clear before moving on to the next.  In keeping with the \\"action\\" from the title, the authors show examples of each aspect of reflection, breaking down each line of code with complete explanations.<br /><br />The book starts with the basics of reflection, looking at how to examine a class at runtime and dynamically load it.  The book then moves on to demonstrating how to use the Proxy class.  Later chapters show how to examine the call stack, customize class loaders, and transform one class into another.  Performance is covered with a chapter that gives some good examples of benchmarking the cost of using reflection.  The book ends with a look at the impact of Java 1.5 on reflection.<br /><br />The best advice I can give is, buy this book.  You will be amazed at the things that you didn't know you could do with Java.	2004-12-08
US	53021951	R20UPRQQHM2ZS5	159059410X	910702398	Pro Jakarta Velocity: From Professional to Expert	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Complete coverage of Velocity	I have always been a strong supporter of Velocity.  I even wrote an article for JavaRanch about Velocity back in March.  Velocity is an open source template framework designed to simplify the task of generating content such as web pages, email, or any other text-based output.  The Velocity documentation available from Apache is short, low on examples, and leaves holes (even if it is fairly good compared to some other open source projects).  This book fills in the gaps and gives excellent coverage of the many features that are available with Velocity.<br /><br />The book starts with an introduction to Velocity and then explains how to install and configure it.  The author then discusses the Velocity Template Language, examines its shortcomings, and demonstrates how to get around them.  Best practices are covered early in the book.  Although Velocity is normally thought of as a web-based framework, the author doesn't let us forget that it can be used for both stand-alone and web applications and gives us detailed chapters on both.  Velocity tools are well covered including Anakia, which can be used to transform XML.  The Velocity architecture is explained as well as ways to extend that architecture.<br /><br />The examples are well thought out and give good coverage of the features of Velocity.  The most interesting part of the examples is how little work it is to integrate Velocity into a well-designed framework.  The author shows how Velocity fits into both Struts and Spring, demonstrating that Velocity is not meant to replace these frameworks but rather to simplify content generation in any framework.  I can strongly recommend this book for anyone interested in Velocity.  For anyone not interested in Velocity, the question is, why not?	2004-11-24
US	53021951	R3FFY2CCT16HA3	0321130006	878941291	Effective Enterprise Java	Books	5	3	3	N	N	We all need a mentor	As anyone who has programmed using Servlets, JSPs, and EJBs knows, the complexities of integrating multiple layers of code can drive you to distraction.  If you aren't careful, you can create an application that performs poorly under load, is difficult to maintain, and is impossible to port from one platform to another.  The tricks that a programmer needs to avoid these problems often come painfully with experience.  The author has taken his experience and given us a book that is well-written, easy to understand, and provides plenty of excellent advice that will help you produce superior applications.  The best part is that the advice you get is practical advice from someone who has actually experienced the pain and suffering of J2EE development.  This book deals in the reality of development and not pie-in-the-sky theory.<br /><br />The book contains seventy-five items of discussion broken up into seven main areas.  The items cover a wide range of topics from the broad, \\"Keep it simple\\" to the specific, \\"Never cede control outside your component while holding locks.\\"  The items cover everything from architecture, \\"Define your performance and scalability goals,\\" to coding, \\"Use HttpSession sparingly.\\"  Even if a particular item is not of interest to you, there will be plenty of other items that will be of interest.<br /><br />This book is not a tutorial or beginner's book.  It is expected that the reader already has some experience with Enterprise Java.  If that describes you, make sure you get this book to avoid more pain and suffering.  You will end up a better J2EE developer and your applications will be cleaner and easier to maintain.	2004-11-15
US	53021951	RJBM9U1UEWLV0	0321246233	270648052	Java Garage	Books	2	13	19	N	N	Headache.	Headache.  That is what I got every time I picked up this book.  Too cute.  Too many short sentences.  Sentence fragments.  Headache.  Recipes.  Like reading my 12-year-old daughter's instant messages.<br /><br />First thing to note is that this is a beginner's book.  You won't find that anywhere in the description unfortunately.  Second thing to note is that I blame this on \\"Head First Java\\".  You know how when a successful TV show comes out and all the other networks try to copy it?  You know how they never do it right because they always miss the point?  It's as if someone saw \\"Survivor\\" and decided it was a success because people ate bugs so they made a show where people had to eat bugs to win.  \\"Head First Java\\" uses humor to help focus the mind on difficult concepts.  It makes use of educational techniques that have been studied by scientists.  This book uses humor to be cool(?), funny(?)  but most of the time the book is just annoying, which is a real shame because there is some good information here and some of it is very well presented.  Other times I was left wondering why he stopped and didn't finish explaining a concept.  Then there are these stream of consciousness blurbs that seem to just come out of nowhere and go on about anything except the topic at hand.  I assume the author is trying to be amusing and be less like a traditional technical book but he fails at the former and overachieves at the latter.<br /><br />At one point in the book the author suggests that if you still have questions that you should get some Zoloft and take up a hobby like gardening.  I think it's a little odd for an author to suggest that his curious readers are in need of anti-depressants but if forced to read this book, it may not be a bad idea.  cya.	2004-11-12
US	53021951	R3ENQ11HFVUZ0Q	0131491687	721844777	Java(TM) Studio Creator Field Guide	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Excellent guide to an interesting tool	Sun's Java Studio Creator makes use of JavaServer Faces (JSF) to allow visual development similar to the way Microsoft's Visual Studio allows visual development of ASP based sites.  It is an easy to use IDE that allows you to drag and drop JSF components, validators, and converters to design a web application.  Much of the code required for a web site is automatically generated for you as you visually develop and additional classes can be generated or hand written (depending on their complexity) using the tool. This book will not teach you JSF but it will teach you how to use the IDE and quickly create web applications.  This book is a well-written and easy to follow step-by-step tutorial to using this new IDE.<br /><br />The book starts with a chapter on Java that can be easily ignored.  The next chapter gives a quick introduction to the IDE.  The authors demonstrate many of the basic techniques and show how to use the visual features to create navigation for a multi-page web site.  The third chapter discusses each of the JSF components that are available in the IDE.  Chapters four and five demonstrate how to use these components to build a web application.  The examples are simple but they show how to integrate the generated code with custom beans (that can also be generated).  Chapters six and seven show how to integrate Web Services and databases into your application.  Chapter eight looks at internationalization and writing custom validators.  The final chapter covers debugging.<br /><br />If you have a copy of the software and want to utilize it to the fullest then this book is well worth buying.  If you don't have the software then look at ISBN 0131499947 to purchase the book and the software together.	2004-10-26
US	53021951	R3M688UE84660Y	1590593820	24073330	J2ME Games With MIDP2	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Brings the fun back to Java	I really enjoyed this book.  The author does a solid job of explaining everything you need to know to write games for MIDP devices.  If you are familiar with Jonathan Knudsen's book on J2ME (probably the best book on the subject), this book expands the single games chapter into a fun and interesting book.<br /><br />The book starts with a quick sample showing us how to use the Sun IDE and how to run our games on the emulator and how to download our games to a phone.  The author shows a couple of example games, a maze and a jumping game, that give a good overview of the basic techniques games use on MIDP devices.  She then expands those examples by showing proper use of threads and shows how to play tones and music during a game.  Storing information (such as high scores or user preferences) is demonstrated.  Downloading game enhancements such as new levels for a dungeon game are also demonstrated.  The book is full of well-commented code samples (worth stealing) that show the techniques being discussed.<br /><br />The author of this book has a nice, easy to read style of writing.  Her enthusiasm for the topic comes through and makes you want to try the many sample games.  If you have been spending too much time on enterprise programming then playing around with some MIDP games might be just the antidote and this book will get you started on the fun.	2004-10-25
US	53021951	R13Q2791GQUROB	0321246101	340647553	InstallAnywhere Tutorial and Reference Guide	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Better than three days of training	This book is an excellent guide to using InstallAnywhere no matter which platform you are running or how much experience you have with the product.  This is the kind of documentation that you wish that the company would provide especially when you consider the price of the software.  According to the introduction, the book was produced from the handouts that Zero G had produced for their three day InstallAnywhere course.<br /><br />The book starts with a quick introduction and some screen shots showing what running an installer would look like from a customer's point of view.  The authors next show a simple example of building an installer.  Unfortunately, and this remains true for the rest of the book, no screen shots are included.  This means that you must be running the software to take full advantage of the book.  No reading this book in the bathtub.  The book works well as both a tutorial and reference guide.  The authors take you step by step through an exercise explaining each of the options even if they aren't used in this exercise.  The instructions for each exercise are very clear.  The use of the product is clearly explained while you are using it, which makes the learning \\"stick\\".<br /><br />The book covers everything from the most basic installer all the way up to writing your own custom plug-ins.  If you are interested in taking full advantage of the InstallAnywhere software and don't want to spend the money for three days of training, then this book is for you.	2004-10-19
US	53021951	R15GMGBMQ01NYJ	0321268385	530057849	Official Eclipse 3.0 FAQs	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Well-written and useful book for plug-in developers	The name of this book is a little deceptive as this is really the official FAQs for Eclipse plug-in developers.  The book is broken up into chapters with each chapter covering about 20 questions.  The first three chapters seem a bit unnecessary as they cover a general overview of Eclipse.  Most plug-in developers probably don't need the answers to those questions and most developers not trying their hand at plug-ins won't need the answers to the remaining 300 questions.<br /><br />Starting with chapter 4, the book covers many of the questions that plug-in developers will have. The main sections are broken up into a look at the basics of the Rich Client platform including JFace and SWT and specifics on the Eclipse IDE platform.  Workbench, editors, perspectives, and views are covered in the general part.  The next part goes into more specific details of the Workspace and Resources API and the Java Development Tool API, among other topics.  The questions are arranged well so rather than a random collection of questions, each chapter is very readable.  Supporting screen shots and source code are provided as needed.  The questions selected cover many of the more confusing areas of plug-in development.  The answers are well written and easy to follow.<br /><br />The book includes a CD that can be installed as an Eclipse plug-in so that the answers will always be nearby even when a co-worker borrows your copy of the book.  Overall, this book is a valuable aid to have nearby while doing plug-in development.	2004-10-18
US	53021951	R2E7C1EQB13R0Z	0131480103	817720723	J2EE 1.4: The Big Picture	Books	4	11	16	N	N	Could have been a lot better	This is a book that could have been a lot better.  The main goal of the book, and one at which it generally succeeds, is to give you an overall view of what J2EE is and how it fits into an overall IT strategy.  The advantages and disadvantages of each piece of J2EE are discussed.  There is very little code in the book (and what is in there could have easily been left out without any loss of clarity) so if you are looking for a book to show you how to write programs then this is not the book for you.<br /><br />The book has some serious drawbacks.  First, the authors of this book are trying desperately to reach some level of geek coolness with mentions of The Simpsons, Buffy the Vampire Slayer, and Pulp Fiction, and with the use of deliberate (at least I think it is deliberate) poor grammar and spelling.  But after awhile it just gets annoying.  The book is probably twice as long as it needed to be because of the authors' desire to try to make the book fun.  But unlike the Head First books, the \\"fun\\" here just gets tedious and turns short discussions into long and confusing discussions. (Why is a J2EE server like a dolphin? Does it like fish?)  The book is also repetitive.  For example, the discussion of session beans on page 48 is repeated almost verbatim (including the same picture) on page 139.  The book does not cover JavaServer Faces and makes only a minimal mention of Struts.  None of the other open source frameworks are discussed at all.<br /><br />Overall, the information in the book is accurate and there is really no other book on the market that covers the material at this level (which is why it is getting 4 stars and not 3).  The authors apparently know their stuff but the book could have been a lot better.	2004-10-15
US	53021951	R31AG8EC9K7ANB	0201728281	97111317	A Programmer's Guide to Java¿ Certification: A Comprehensive Primer (2nd Edition)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Excellent study guide, excellent reference	If you are studying to become a Sun Certified Programmer for the Java 2 Platform 1.4 this book will help you to receive not just a passing grade but an excellent understanding of the intricacies of the Java programming language.  Mughal and Rasmussen aren't satisfied with simply giving you a minimal understanding of Java so that you can pass a test.  They are interested in helping you to understand the language at a deeper level.  After all, it is much easier to pass the certification exam when you actually understand the material rather than when you have simply memorized a lot of details.<br /><br />I'll give you an example of the level of detail that the book covers.  Section 5.2 of the book covers Selection statements.  The section starts with a description of the if statement followed by an activity diagram which explains the flow of the statement.  The authors then show a simple example followed by a clear explanation of the if statement.  Then they do the same with if-else, this time using several examples.  The same level of detail follows for the switch statement, again providing clear text, with a simple activity diagram, followed by several well explained examples.  Finally, the section ends with several review questions.  What this means is that this book can serve you well even after you have passed the certification exam.  You will be hard pressed to find a better written reference.<br /><br />The book covers all the information you need to pass the certification exam and covers the material needed to connect all the pieces together.  The included CD has several mock exams with questions that will help you understand the type of questions that you will face on the actual exam.  If you do well on the mock exams you will do well on the real thing.  Overall, this is an excellent book for studying for the Java certification.  But it is such a good reference that you will want to keep it nearby even after you have passed the certification.	2004-10-14
US	53021951	RZ1L83JDQTDV	1590592832	609022590	Pro Jakarta Commons	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Good introduction to Jakarta Commons	Jakarta Commons is a collection of generally unrelated but useful classes that can be incorporated into any Java project.  In general, the documentation available is limited at best and in some cases is limited to little more than the Javadoc from the API.  This lack of good documentation has helped to prevent the widespread acceptance of the Commons classes.  This book will help to address that major shortcoming of the Jakarta Commons.<br /><br />This book is an introduction to the most commonly used classes found in Jakarta Commons.  Not all the components are covered.  For example, Betwixt, Jelly, Jexl, and Codec are barely mentioned.  However, the components that the author discusses are the most useful and are generally well covered.  The book starts off slowly with an introduction to Jakarta Commons and then a brief and incomplete look at the Lang component.  This chapter will give you no more than a flavor of what is available.  The Logging component is well covered although I would probably never use it and the coverage of the Validator component should have concentrated solely on implementation outside of Struts and left Struts explanations to books on Struts.  The remaining chapters cover the more useful components including Digester, Pooling, BeanUtils, and FileUpload and do a great job of explaining the components and providing realistic examples of usage.<br /><br />Anyone who is writing Java code should be interested in the Jakarta Commons and anyone who is interested in Jakarta Commons should have a copy of this book.  It will serve both as a good introduction to Commons components and a reference to using those components.	2004-09-21
US	53021951	R3RPESQOGQSDF2	0309085497	220623865	Prime Obsession: Bernhard Riemann and the Greatest Unsolved Problem in Mathematics	Books	5	9	10	N	N	An author not afraid of the math	In 1859, Bernhard Riemann, one of the greatest mathematicians of his day, wrote a paper about the distribution of prime numbers.  In that paper as an incidental remark he wrote, \\"All non-trivial zeros of the zeta function have real part one-half.\\"  Riemann had no proof that this was true but he suspected that it was true based on his intuition and his understanding of prime numbers.  For nearly 150 years, mathematicians have been trying to either prove or disprove Riemann's hypothesis.<br /><br />Writing a book about something as obscure as the zeta function for the non-mathematician is a daunting proposition but John Derbyshire is up to the challenge.  In a book on a topic like this, you expect the author to not be afraid to discuss complicated mathematics.  By starting off slowly and holding our hands as he moves through the math, Derbyshire makes complex mathematical functions understandable even to someone who hasn't looked at calculus in more than twenty years.  So even if non-trivial zeros, natural logs, and prime number distribution theories sound over your head, Derbyshire will explain it in a way that will make it clear and interesting.  Derbyshire breaks the book up so that the odd-numbered chapters cover mathematical details and the even-numbered chapters cover historical background of the story.  So even if you do get lost in the math, you still can still follow the story which is fascinating in itself.<br /><br />At the time of writing this review, a possible solution proving the Riemann hypothesis to be true has been produced by Louis de Branges of Purdue University.  That makes \\"Prime Obsession\\" both fascinating and timely.	2004-09-12
US	53021951	R2EAEYLXVMFH8N	0226534219	623457278	How to Lie with Maps (2nd Edition)	Books	3	61	69	N	N	Could have been better	Any book that calls itself, \\"How to Lie with...\\" is simply begging for a reviewer to compare it to, \\"How to Lie with Statistics.\\"  The latter is a classic that is fun and educational.  Unfortunately, this book falls short of deserving the title but it is still an interesting read.  One of the main problems is that rather than being a guide to help avoid being fooled by maps, the author uses the book as an introduction to the science of cartography.  It seems that a large portion of the book is aimed towards the prospective mapmaker. I found these parts to be a bit difficult to get through.  Also, there are very few real life examples in the book.  I would have liked to see more examples from newspapers or magazines in place of the samples the author provides.  Some of the few real life examples are from Nazi Germany and the USSR and seem very dated.<br /><br />That was the bad side but there are many good points to the book.  The chapter on development maps was very interesting (although the attempts at humor are wasted) and should be required reading for anyone who is serving on a zoning board.  Also, the discussion of choropleth maps is excellent and the reader will come away with a clear understanding of how these maps can be abused either deliberately or accidentally by the cartographer.  The author shows examples of very different choropleth maps using the same data that will make you skeptical of anyone who uses choropleth maps to prove a point.<br /><br />Although parts of the book drag, the book is short at 150 pages so it is a relatively quick read.  I wouldn't say that it is required reading, but it will help you maintain a healthy skepticism about maps that you might encounter.	2004-08-23
US	53021951	R2LSWNOTX6ZLSY	0471462071	441585606	Mastering JavaServer Faces (Java)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Well written JSF tutorial	JSF is a new technology designed to simplify the task of creating Java web applications by making them work more like typical GUI event driven applications.  There are a lot of changes to the web framework for JSF and this book does a very good job of clearly explaining these changes.  The book starts with an introduction to JSF that compares it to both Struts and Swing.  The authors explain both the architecture and the main patterns used in JSF, which helps to make clear how JSF works.  UML diagrams are used to help explain how the various pieces of JSF interact.  The middle section of the book covers all the main points of JSF at a nice leisurely pace: configuration, UI components, navigation, event handling, and data conversion and validation.  Plenty of code samples are provided and all the code is clearly explained.  The final section of the book covers building a complete JSF application, designing custom components, and converting an application from Struts to JSF.<br /><br />This book is a nice introduction and tutorial on JSF.  For many developers, this will be all they need.  Others may be looking for a book that can serve as a reference or will cover more detail and this book will not fill that need.  If you are looking for a book to help you learn the basics of JSF and to get a good understanding of how to properly implement a JSF application, then this book will serve you very well.	2004-08-17
US	53021951	R6KALWNAOJT60	1932394117	220544869	Tapestry in Action (In Action series)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Nice coverage of Tapestry	Tapestry is a web development framework that is radically different than most other frameworks used for web development.  The author of this book, Howard Lewis Ship, is the principal architect of Tapestry.  It is often the case that an expert is not necessarily the best person to write about a topic as they often forget what it is like to be a novice.  The book starts with this problem but fortunately after the first couple of chapters the book improves greatly.<br /><br />Chapter one is an introduction to Tapestry.  The explanation is far from clear so if you don't know what Tapestry is when you start this chapter, you will still not know what it is when you finish.  Chapter two is our first exposure to a Tapestry application but the author chooses a sample (a hangman game) that is complicated and is not a typical web application.<br /><br />Chapters three through five discuss HTML forms and form components, showing how to use and validate them in a Tapestry application.  The next three chapters show how to build your own form components and the last two chapters show how to build a complete Tapestry application.  Starting with chapter three the book takes a turn for the better.  If you were lost at the beginning of the book, it will all make sense by the time you get to the end.<br /><br />I can strongly recommend this book to anyone interested in Tapestry whether they are a novice or an experienced Tapestry developer.	2004-08-04
US	53021951	R18D33JR8H7ZJP	0789726122	244600788	JavaScript Goodies (2nd Edition)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good introduction for the complete novice	This is the JavaScript book for the non-programmer who knows some HTML and wants to learn how to enhance their web site with some JavaScript.  The book assumes no knowledge of programming at all so even the complete novice can learn some programming skills.  I used this book in my JavaScript class and by the time we got through the book, my students were even able to write some simple games like Blackjack and Craps.<br />The book opens with a look at the main objects of a web page that are used in JavaScript and gives some example scripts that are explained in detail.  In fact, the book is full of scripts that are used to explain each technique as you learn.  The key concept of what an object is and what properties, methods, and events are is explained in some detail.  Validating a form is explained.  Image flipping and animation are covered.  Example scripts will explain how to create scrolling text and a digital clock on your web pages.  Basic programming techniques such as if statements, loops, and arrays are covered.<br />Examples are really the one thing that make this book worth the investment.  Each new subject being discussed is introduced with a script followed by explanations and further examples.  Then an assignment is given to help you verify that you have learned the information covered.  The solutions to all the assignments are on the author's website.<br />The book covers the basics of JavaScript and will provide a good foundation for the novice.  After reading this book you won't be an expert JavaScript programmer but you will be ready to move on to more complex programming tasks and more difficult books.	2004-06-26
US	53021951	R1XT1EGF450R4W	0201771861	450741482	Processing XML with Java¿: A Guide to SAX, DOM, JDOM, JAXP, and TrAX (2 Volume Set)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Excellent!!!	If only every technical book was written this well!  Anyone who is working with Java and XML should have a copy of this book.  Highly example driven with clear explanations, the author makes using XML in your Java programs a breeze.  Even better, the author has a style that makes the book fun to read as you feel like you are learning all sorts of secrets from an XML insider.<br />The book starts with a quick introduction to XML and then gets into how to create XML documents in your programs.  The first four chapters cover everything you need to know about creating XML whether it is for XML-RPC, SOAP, or simply to store in a file.  The next section covers parsing XML documents.  SAX and DOM are compared and then the next eight chapters discuss these two methods of parsing documents, explaining how to use them, comparing them, and helping you determine how to decide which technique to use for which situation.  The section on DOM explains not just how to parse documents using DOM but also how to create new documents.  The final chapters of the book cover JDOM, XPATH, and XSLT.<br />Did I mention that this book is full of examples?  The author doesn't rely on simply explaining how something works or how to use a technology (even though his explanations are excellent), he has examples to demonstrate everything he discusses.  Each example builds upon the previous example and  makes learning the techniques easy and enjoyable.	2004-06-26
US	53021951	R39CCIHLI1DKPA	0471469513	694749921	Professional Portal Development with Open Source Tools: JavaTM Portlet API, Lucene, James, Slide	Books	3	22	24	N	N	Incomplete look at Portal development	There seems to be a new breed of technical cookbook book that involves throwing a lot of different technologies into a stew and hoping that what comes out is flavorful.  Unfortunately, the result is more often than not, a less than tasty meal.  This book is a prime example.  Although it claims to be a guide to portal development using Java, it is mainly a bare bones discussion of lots of open source technologies without tying them together.<br />The book starts with an introduction to the Java Portlet API.  This should be the heart of the book but in 35 pages we get a glance at some aspects of portals and some tables that give us a little on what but virtually nothing on how or why.  Thinking that this was simply a quick introduction I wasn't too let down but then the book moves on to short chapters on Lucene, Apache James, Apache OJB, and Jakarta Slide.  The book talks about security, planning, JavaScript, deployment, web services, etc. The one thing that is lacking is a feel for how this should all fit together within the Portlet API.<br />Taking each chapter by itself, some of them are good while others cover little more than the surface of each topic.  Overall, the book fails to be a guide to developing a portal using Java.  It should be considered as a series of articles dealing with different aspects of portal development but without any real connection.	2004-06-22
US	53021951	R26SB2QYBSY06G	0321118898	741230462	Enterprise Java¿ Security: Building Secure J2EE¿ Applications	Books	3	13	16	N	N	Needs more code samples	This book is a nice, general, \\"white paper\\" type overview of security in Java.  The authors demonstrate a good, solid understanding of J2EE security.  However, they don't provide enough in the way of actual implementation examples.  I feel this is a major shortcoming of the book.<br />The book starts with a general overview of security and then moves on to using applets with RMI through a firewall.  The next section deals with Servlets, JSP, and EJB security and shows us some deployment descriptors and a few code samples but not enough to get a firm grasp on how to implement security.  Part 3 discusses the basics of Java security. Part 4 discusses cryptography.  The final part discusses advanced topics including a way too brief chapter on web services.<br />In general the book spends too much space discussing security topics and not nearly enough space demonstrating how to use the information provided.  The book tends to be too technical in ways that are generally not interesting to Java developers.  For example, does a developer really need this: \\"One straightforward application of the one-way function to DH is to have two entities to publicly agree on a point P on an elliptic curve E over a finite field, where p is a very large prime number.\\"<br />I think this book may be very useful in combination with another book that is much more example driven, \\"J2EE Security for Servlets, EJBs, and Web Services\\" by Pankaj Kumar.	2004-04-05
US	53021951	R2LCS1OLGC0E0O	0321150406	112250430	Effective XML: 50 Specific Ways to Improve Your XML	Books	5	15	21	N	N	The XML book you should own	Imagine you are given the opportunity to ask one of the leading experts on XML 50 questions.  And further imagine that this expert will answer those questions clearly and completely.  You can stop imagining because Elliotte Rusty Harold has done exactly that in this book.  Whether you are a relative newbie or an experienced XML developer, you will find useful information in this book.  Should I use DOM or SAX?  What's the right way to encode binary data? When should I use processing instructions? Should I use XML 1.1?  Do I really need to parse my documents? This is just a random sample of the questions that Harold answers in this book.  Every page contains valuable information.  Harold is unusual in that even though he is an expert he still remembers what it is like to not know something.  His explanations don't leave any blanks that you need to fill in.  There are no jumps from point A to point Z without taking you through the points in between.<br />So who should buy this book?  Anyone who has some knowledge of XML who is interested in working with XML the right way.  Whether you are developing applications to process or create an XML document or whether you are simply designing an XML document you need to read this book.  Once you understand the basics of XML, this book will take you to the next step of being able to work with XML effectively.	2004-04-02
US	53021951	RVH7DGMA3I12J	0385505841	849423440	A Concise History of the Catholic Church	Books	2	188	207	N	Y	Needs more history and less editorializing	This book is an interesting although deeply flawed look at Church history over the past 2,000 years.  It is less a history than a collection of moments in time without a true feel for the flow of events.  In addition, many prominent events are simply ignored or passed over with barely a mention.  Let me give a few brief examples. Little is said of the collapse of the Church in North Africa where it was thriving (Saint Augustine was a bishop in Hippo) until it was replaced by Islam.  The Crusades are barely discussed and their effects on relations with the peoples of the Middle East aren't discussed at all.  The Thirty Years War is given a single paragraph.  This is surprising because this war turned Europe from a continent of nations based on religion into a continent of nations where national loyalties were more important than religious loyalties.  The loss of power of the religious leaders in Europe can be traced to that war.<br />This is fairly typical of the book.  It discusses many prominent people such as Saint Augustine and Saint Jerome in some detail but fails to put their lives into a perspective of overall Church history.  The flow of the book is often interrupted by jumps ahead and then back again so sometimes it is confusing because it isn't clear as to what events have occurred and which are still to come.  There is also a tendency in the book to move too fast at times and introduce characters with a sentence and then never mention them again.<br />All that being said, the book is not a complete failure.  Taken from a Catholic viewpoint, the book is an acceptable, although incomplete, introduction to Church history.  The author does not try to hide the bad acts of the Church that led to the Reformation, for example, and instead points out the critical failures of the Church.  His discussion of some key Protestant leaders such as Luther and Calvin will enlighten those who knew little of their lives.  In fact, the book is at its best when the author ignores trying to write a history and instead gives us short biographies of key figures in Church history.<br />The last part of the book covering the period since Vatican II was the most disappointing to me.  The author abandons any attempt to write a history and instead turns the book into an editorial about the Church's failure to become &quot;modern&quot; in the last 40 years.  Strangely, this is the longest part of the book.  I'm not sure how a book claiming to be a history can discuss 1,960 years of Church history in 400 pages and then the remaining 40 years are given more than 100 pages.  Overall, the book is fair as an introduction to Church history until about 1900 but a failure as an editorial on the current Church.ores trying to write a history and instead gives us short biographies of key figures in Church history.  <br />The last part of the book covering the period since Vatican II was the most disappointing to me.  The author abandons any attempt to write a history and instead turns the book into an editorial about the Church's failure to become &quot;modern&quot; in the last 40 years.  Strangely, this is the longest part of the book.  I'm not sure how a book claiming to be a history can discuss 1,960 years of Church history in 400 pages and then the remaining 40 years are given more than 100 pages.  Overall, the book is fair as an introduction to Church history until about 1900 but a failure as an editorial on the current Church.	2004-04-02
US	53021951	R3VX70ML10GK7O	1590591070	402904338	Java Regular Expressions: Taming the java.util.regex Engine	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Excellent tutorial and reference	This book is an excellent introduction to regular expressions in general and the Java regex package in particular.  The author assumes that the reader has no experience with regular expressions so even if the subject is completely new to you, you will be able to follow along easily.<br />The book approaches the topic in a clever way that makes it both an excellent tutorial as well as an excellent reference to keep nearby.  The first chapter covers regular expression syntax.  The second chapter looks at the two main classes, Pattern and Matcher, and discusses each of the methods in these classes.  The way the information is presented makes it a perfect tutorial, as the methods are introduced in a sensible order that allows the detailed discussion to build.  At the same time, since each method is discussed with excellent description and examples, it serves as a useful reference.  Chapter three looks at some advanced topics such as groups, qualifiers, and lookaheads.  In chapter four the author gives us some advice and chapter five demonstrates some useful examples.  The books ends with a reference, summarizing the topics discussed in the first two chapters.<br />Other than a few minor misprints and one slightly confusing group example early on I could find nothing to complain about.  Any Java programmer interested in learning regular expressions will find this book extremely useful.  It is hard to imagine that there could be a better book on regular expressions than this one.	2004-03-26
US	53021951	R1XP6BSBJMJI2L	0375422218	633305509	The Constants of Nature: From Alpha to Omega--the Numbers That Encode the Deepest Secrets of the Universe	Books	3	21	21	N	N	Not quite from alpha to omega	There is a good book in this book somewhere, but it is trapped inside of a fair book that promises a lot more than it actually delivers.  There is an initial problem that the book fails to make the case as to why particular constants are important.  When discussing the fine structure constant (which is really the only constant that is given any significant coverage), the author tells us that it is made up of a combination of the electron charge, the speed of light, and Plank's constant.  One might ask why these three particular values and that would be a fair question.  The author tells us that if these three values changed but the fine structure constant remained the same, the resulting universe would be indistinguishable from our own.  And then he leaves it there.  What does that mean? Why is this the case?  The author skips over this and moves on to other topics.  He also makes a claim for &quot;natural units&quot; without being clear about what he means and why they are particularly natural.<br />In chapter six the author discusses some curious coincidences surrounding Eddington's number.  But after having debunked some other coincidental numbers he seems to leave himself open to claims that he is simply invoking meaningless coincidences.  For example, he lays claim to an odd coincidence between the number of protons in the Universe and the ratio of the strengths of the electromagnetic and gravitational forces between two protons.  Why these particular numbers?  There are some interesting twists and turns in the book but there are also enough things that seem rather shaky that I began to doubt how much of the book was truly reliable.  As one reviewer has already pointed out, what does one say when a book is so careless as to claim that solar eclipses are caused by the Earth's shadow falling on the Sun?  I am sure the author doesn't believe that to be the case but it shows a certain amount of carelessness that worries me about the remainder of the book.<br />There are some good parts to the book that I should mention.  The discussion of the Anthropic Principle was clear and concise.  His explanation of why intelligent life could not evolve unless there were exactly three spatial dimensions and one time dimension was convincing although I would have liked him to expand on this in more depth.  Chapter eleven's discussion of natural nuclear reactors was also quite interesting.  Overall there are some good parts in here but I didn't find the book as a whole delivered on its promise.here are some good parts to the book that I should mention.  The discussion of the Anthropic Principle was clear and concise.  His explanation of why intelligent life could not evolve unless there were exactly three spatial dimensions and one time dimension was convincing although I would have liked him to expand on this in more depth.  Chapter eleven's discussion of natural nuclear reactors was also quite interesting.  Overall there are some good parts in here but I didn't find the book as a whole delivered on its promise.	2004-03-24
US	53021951	R15HCTIFUMXIAL	0385477058	790441627	Hyperspace: A Scientific Odyssey Through Parallel Universes, Time Warps, and the 10th Dimension	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Rambling Tour of Modern Phsyics	This book was written ten years ago but it still holds up well.  Michio Kaku examines the theories of multi-dimensional space in an entertaining and educational book.  His explanations are so clear that 10-dimensional space actually made sense.  The book is somewhat a rambling adventure.  Kaku takes us on a tour, introducing us to an interesting cast of characters  including the sad story of Georg Bernhard Riemann who developed key equations for analyzing multi-dimensional space in the 1800's.  The tour differs from a typical physics book in that instead of giving us the basic lecture of the advance of physics, Kaku approaches everything from a slightly different angle.  In trying to help us understand multi-dimensional space, he looks not just at science but in art and literature.  To emphasize a point he might explain it using something from his own career or from a science fiction story. The main problem with the book is that the author does tend to get off topic and ramble at certain points in the book.  Stories about what an intelligent culture might do as the Universe ends doesn't really fit into the flow of the book and since we really have no idea how the Universe will end, it all seemed a bit pointless.  I started to get the idea that Kaku had a number of pages in mind and was trying to fill the book with a lot of different ideas he has had floating around to reach that number.  But don't let me scare you away.  At least two-thirds of this book is brilliant writing that will make you think, help you understand modern theories of physics, and entertain you.  I can forgive the author's ramblings when he provides that much in a few hundred pages.	2004-03-23
US	53021951	R2P5N3RZHYD5V5	0767908163	931225579	The Golden Ratio: The Story of PHI, the World's Most Astonishing Number	Books	1	39	52	N	N	More like the Golden Bore	What a depressing book this turned out to be.  I thought a book about the &quot;golden section&quot; would have been interesting but in the hands of Mario Livio it is pure pain.  To give a few examples... The author discusses the theory that the golden ratio was used by the builders of the pyramids and refutes it easily.  And then continues to refute it for page after page.  Then he does the same thing with the Parthenon, destroying the theory using the exact same reasons he used for the pyramid, explaining them in the same level of detail.  But he isn't done yet.  We get to have the same discussion again when we look at Renaissance paintings.  I didn't really care about the discussion when discussing the pyramids but by the time I heard the argument for the third time I was ready to find something else to read.  As he discusses the history of the golden section he goes into side trips to discuss anyone who had even the slightest relationship with phi.  Anyone who has never heard of Kepler may find this interesting even if it is irrelevant to phi but I just started skimming pages hoping for something a little meatier.  There is a little spark here and there that kept me reading hoping for more but more never arrived.  A writer with a greater interest in the mathematics of phi could have made this a fun and interesting book.  Livio seems to think the math is boring so he avoids it like the plague and creates a book that completely misses the point and ends up being a total bore.	2004-03-16
US	53021951	R3DZATKZC1C95Y	0471463620	66099077	Java Open Source Programming: with XDoclet, JUnit, WebWork, Hibernate	Books	3	15	15	N	N	A missed opportunity	What a good book this might have been.  It isn't an awful book but it could have been so much better.  The premise of the book is to take the &quot;Pet Store&quot; and improve it by using several open source tools.  The first part of the book discusses each of the tools with brief explanations and sample code.  The second part takes us through the development process showing how to use the tools that were discussed earlier.<br />The good parts of the book are mostly in the second half.  The authors apply each of the tools, explain test-driven development, demonstrate how and when to refactor code, etc.  The integration of the different tools is made naturally so that it doesn't seem that the authors are trying to squeeze a tool in just to demonstrate it.  The bad parts: this book desperately needs editing, both technical and for grammar.  It is very distracting to see so much improper English usage including run on sentences, sentence fragments, and noun-verb disagreement.  On the technical side, there are so many errors in the code that I doubt very much will actually compile, let alone run.  Typical errors include methods declaring to return a value and not returning anything, closing files before they are used, and using variables that are not declared.<br />If you are interested in the technologies discussed and can debug the code in the book, there is a good amount of value.  But it could have been so much better.	2004-03-15
US	53021951	R2PBZMCP847TIA	1932394060	874413322	Art of Java Web Development: Struts, Tapestry, Commons, Velocity, JUnit, Axis, Cocoon, InternetBeans, WebWork	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Interesting look at framework architecture	This book is about using frameworks for developing Java web applications.  The author gives a thorough overview of some of the most popular frameworks and discusses the pros and cons of various web architectures.  The discussion is almost exclusively in the Servlet/JSP realm with little discussion of back end applications servers.  The audience that will find this book most useful are those who have some experience with Java web development and are looking to expand their knowledge of modern web architectures.<br />The first part of the book is a discussion of Java web architecture in general with a concentration on MVC architecture.  The second part is an examination of some of the most popular frameworks in use today.  This part is interesting as the author demonstrates the same application developed in the various frameworks.  The section finishes with a list of criteria to use when evaluating any framework for your own development projects.  The final part is a discussion of best practices in various aspects of a web architecture such as resource management, performance, and debugging.  This section reads almost as a series of articles.<br />The book is not really a how-to guide to using the various frameworks.  I had trouble getting a couple of the examples working exactly as provided and some of the discussion was a bit confusing.  But the overall view of how to choose and then incorporate a framework into a well designed architecture makes the book a very worthwhile read.	2004-03-09
US	53021951	R1K2ZIFAUNM6CS	0375708111	458870497	The Elegant Universe: Superstrings, Hidden Dimensions, and the Quest for the Ultimate Theory	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Very Interesting - Occasionally a Struggle	Superstring Theory is the hot topic in Physics these days and this book is written by a physicist heavily involved in research on the topic.  The book starts with a quick introduction to special relativity, general relativity, and then quantum mechanics.  It is a lot of information to digest in three quick chapters so at least some familiarity with the topics will be useful.  Think of this more as a refresher than a tutorial.  The author then explains why current theories have a huge hole and how string theory might be able to close that hole.<br />The author does a very good job of explaining string theory to the point where a layman can actually make some sense of it all.  He uses examples, metaphors, and analogies that simplify the concepts so that although we may not have the deep understanding that a physicist would have we can at least get a glimpse of what ten dimensional space is like and why it is important to string theory.  Although the author is a proponent of the theory this does not prevent him from allowing the critics of the theory to have their say.<br />I will admit that the book does bog down in places and not all his explanations are crystal clear.  I did feel lost in places and never got a real feel for ten dimensional space although I did at least get an idea of why it is important.  The Nova series based on the book covers the same territory but the book goes into more detail so if the Nova series intrigued you then this book is well worth reading.	2004-01-29
US	53021951	RROJB35EBOSGQ	0471146153	90425722	J2EE AntiPatterns	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent for J2EE Designers/Developers	Did you ever have the feeling that there was something wrong with your application design but you just couldn't put your finger on the problem?  The authors of this book have taken their own experience developing J2EE applications and produced a book that will help you avoid many mistakes in application design.  The book is geared toward helping the experienced designer/developer produce robust, maintainable applications and fixing applications that are not robust and not easily maintained.<br />The book covers most of the J2EE spectrum.  There are sections on JSPs, Servlets, Entity and Session Beans, JMS, and Web Services.  There are also sections on general J2EE architecture including distribution, scaling, and persistence.  Each chapter gives a background on a specific antipattern, discusses the typical symptoms of the antipattern, and then covers various refactorings that can be used to correct the antipattern.  Some of the antipatterns discussed may sound familiar (&quot;too much code in JSPs&quot;) but the list of refactorings will provide useful information for even these obvious coding errors if you happen to be supporting an application that suffers from that antipattern.<br />The authors have done a great job of clearly explaining each antipattern, both explaining why it is an antipattern and what you can do to fix the problem.  Each refactoring is demonstrated with code samples as well as with UML diagrams where appropriate.  Overall, this is an excellent book that should be on the shelf of anyone involved in designing J2EE applications.	2003-12-19
US	53021951	R2XZ2NSJDHY4MN	1930110995	419328704	JUnit in Action	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Every programmer should own this book	I think we can all agree that unit testing is a good thing that can be painful to implement.  The main problem with unit testing is building tests that are easy to run and maintain.  That is where JUnit enters the picture.  JUnit simplifies the task of creating unit tests and this book simplifies the task of understanding and using JUnit.<br />The book starts with the basics of using JUnit but then moves on to explaining the intricacies of JUnit.  UML diagrams clearly show the flow of control within JUnit and your unit tests.  The author gives a good description of how to integrate JUnit with Ant, Maven, and Eclipse.  The book also shows how to do unit testing of Servlets and JSPs which can be much more complex to test.  The author demonstrates both the use of Cactus as well as the use of mock objects for J2EE testing.  In fact, the best part of the book is that the author helps you determine how to decide what type of testing strategy is right for your application.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed this book and found the author's comments clear and insightful.  The author supplies plenty of code samples with explanations of not just how but why we do our testing a certain way.  The author's own experience is passed on to us with his &quot;best practices&quot;.  Anyone who is writing Java code should read and understand this book.  The quality of the code you produce will vastly improve.	2003-12-17
US	53021951	R25GYE2AD376WO	0131407317	367553362	Core Java Data Objects	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Could have been better	Java Data Objects (JDO) is an alternative to JDBC that allows you to treat rows from a database as Java objects.  The simplicity of JDO removes many of the complications involved with developing JDBC applications. This book does a decent job of covering the JDO specification and explaining how to properly use JDO.  The book starts with an introduction to JDO and shows some examples of how to write code with JDO.  The section on the object lifecycle isn't clearly explained having too much concentration on lists and not enough on explanations.  The following chapters do a decent job of explaining the pieces of JDO.  In addition to the basics, the book covers using JDO in a J2EE environment with a look at Enterprise JavaBeans, security, and transactions.  A later chapter shows a comparison of JDO and JDBC. The authors wrap up with some tips, take a look at what might be coming in the future, and show a case study.<br />The authors do not look at any JDO implementations, which leaves their explanations in essence, hanging in mid-air.  Although they show how to code in JDO they don't show what a programmer needs to do to hook their code in to a database.  This means that without further reading, you can't run any of the examples supplied.  Although the book is not bad and might be worth a read, it is not as clear or as well written as one might like.	2003-12-15
US	53021951	RY0AX713J2Y9V	1931182108	93711950	Developing J2EE Applications with WebSphere Studio: IBM Certified Enterprise Developer (IBM Certification Study Guides)	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Not just a certification guide	This book is written to serve two goals.  First, it is a guide for anyone using WebSphere Studio to develop enterprise applications.  Second, it is a study guide for those intending on taking IBM Certification Test 287.  Due to the dual nature of these goals there may be certain parts of the book that someone studying for the certification test is already familiar with especially when it comes to knowledge of the basics of WebSphere Studio.  However, the excellent coverage of the test objectives makes this a minor issue.<br />For the person looking for a guide to enterprise development using WebSphere, this book will get them quickly up to speed.  The various pieces of J2EE are explained briefly while how they are programmed using WebSphere Studio is very well explained.  The book does not serve as a complete primer on Servlets, JSPs, EJBs, etc but it does serve as an excellent guide to programming these in WebSphere Studio and installing them in WebSphere Application Server.  For the person looking to study for the IBM certification exam, they will find an excellent guide that clearly identifies each objective of the test and points to which chapter covers which objectives.  The one thing missing however is sample test questions.  Although some sample questions are available on the IBM web site, additional questions and study advice would have been helpful.<br />Overall, I can recommend this book for either those using WebSphere Studio for development or those intending on taking the certification exam.	2003-11-24
US	53021951	R3SW4854D843VJ	0596004656	523745409	Head First Java: Your Brain on Java - A Learner's Guide	Books	5	154	164	N	N	An Amazing Achievment	Who do Kathy Sierra and Bert Bates think they are?  Don't they know that learning a programming language is supposed to be hard?  Don't they know that it is supposed to involve suffering?  Apparently not, as they have written a complete introduction to Java that is fun to read and easy to understand.  If we don't stamp this out now, students will start expecting their teachers to be entertaining!<br />The book is an excellent introduction to Java.  It covers all the typical topics of a basic introductory text and some extra including serialization, networking, and distributed computing.  Each topic is covered in a fun way with important information highlighted.  The authors use stories, fake interviews, pictures, and assorted other clever techniques to catch your imagination and make the topics memorable.  There are plenty of exercises (with answers) to help you check to be sure you understood each chapter.  And there are plenty of fun programs to code including a cool music machine instead of the typical &quot;reverse a String&quot; exercises.<br />If you are looking for a traditional text then this book is definitely not for you.  Instructors should think carefully whether this book fits in with their style of teaching.  This book is not for everyone but if you want to learn Java and object oriented programming in fun and unique way then this is the book you want.  Now I just have to figure out how to keep it away from my students.	2003-11-14
US	53021951	R2505ZYLL2X67R	0321150791	508315590	JavaServer Pages, Second Edition	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Nice introduction for web site designers	This book is geared for web site designers with no Java experience who are interested in understanding how to incorporate JSP into their web site.  The book gives a good introduction to the basics that anyone doing web site development with Java will need to know.  Although the book concentrates on incorporating JSPs into a web site it also includes enough information to allow the non-programmer to do some basic programming.<br />The first half of the book is a basic overview of JSP with a concentration on building dynamic pages by using JavaBeans, JSTL, and the expression language.  Anyone who is familiar with ASP or ColdFusion will find this section very easy to follow.  Each chapter has examples that help to make the information from the chapter easier to understand.  All of the examples are on the included CD and ran without any problem in Tomcat.  The second half of the book starts with a brief introduction to the Java programming language.  The book then shows how to use Java to write your own JavaBeans. Servlets are discussed along with explaining what an MVC architecture is using Struts as an example.  The second half ends by showing how to develop your own tag libraries.<br />The author has done a good job of explaining the basics of using JSPs but then he tries to cast too wide a net in the second half of the book.  Each of the topics is covered too lightly (each topic could have its own book) and will tend to leave the inexperienced reader a bit lost.  If you are a web designer and need to understand how to incorporate Java into your site then this book will be very helpful.  Read the first part of the book in detail and just catch the major themes of the second half and you will be in good shape.	2003-11-10
US	53021951	R33HRAEWBQQDUP	1590590775	153788195	Wireless Java: Developing with J2ME (Books for Professionals by Professionals)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Best J2ME book on the market	Two years ago, Jonathan Knudsen released the first edition of this book.  At the time I said it was an &quot;excellent book&quot;.  Knudsen continues to keep his title of &quot;Author of the best intro to J2ME book&quot; with the release of the second edition of his book.  About double in size and completely rewritten for the latest release of J2ME, Knudsen has once again written an excellent book.<br />The book is about writing MIDlets and the first three chapters are an introduction to the topic.  Chapter four shows how to leverage your knowledge of J2SE into the MIDlet world, showing which language features of J2SE are available to the MIDlet author.  The next few chapters discuss developing a user interface, using persistent storage, connecting to the internet, performance tuning, parsing XML, and securing information.  New chapters demonstrating how to use the new game API and the new multimedia extensions have been added to the book.<br />As always, Knudsen's writing style is perfect.  You won't find yourself re-reading paragraphs because the author's language was confusing or because he failed to explain a topic clearly.  Each chapter is full of examples that help to make the topic under discussion more easily understood.  If you are an intermediate to advanced Java programmer looking to learn how to make cell phones and PDAs learn some new tricks then this book is exactly what you want.	2003-11-04
US	53021951	RLAZ4RQC4S8K6	1590592557	387997168	Professional Struts Applications: Building Web Sites with Struts ObjectRelational Bridge, Lucene, and Velocity (Expert's Voice)	Books	3	15	16	N	N	Wait for the second edition	This book is a reprint of a Wrox book that APress bought when Wrox went out of business.  Although the book has a publication date of September 2003, it was actually published by Wrox earlier in the year.  Also, APress intends on releasing a second edition of this book (ISBN:159059228X) in December 2003.  With that in mind, let's discuss the contents of this book.<br />The book is broken up into five sections.  The first and longest section discusses Struts.  This section is very good as it concentrates on developing a Struts application and demonstrates good design while discussing the issues that make bad designs bad.  This section ends with a look at using ObjectRelationalBridge (OJB) as a data access tier.  Unfortunately the book uses an beta version of OJB (it is still not in release) that makes this section obsolete.  The remaining chapters cover other open source tools available to developers including Velocity (template engine), Lucene (search engine), and Ant (build tool).  Although it is interesting to see how each tool integrates into the Struts application developed earlier, the chapters are not long enough to give detailed information on any of these tools.<br />The conclusion is that if you are looking for a book on properly building a Struts application, you probably want to wait for the second edition.  Since the OJB chapter is obsolete and the chapters on the other tools are fairly brief, this book doesn't provide anything that shouts, &quot;Buy Me&quot; from the shelves.	2003-10-30
US	53021951	R3Q928ZA2JD99O	032119442X	559880628	MDA Explained: The Model Driven Architecture¿: Practice and Promise	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A vision of the future?	If you are interested in Model Driven Architecture (MDA) but you don't have a clear grasp of what it is or where the designers of MDA see it heading then you might want to pick up this brief, well-written description written by three authors who are well acquainted with MDA.<br />MDA is the concept of using models developed using a modeling language (UML) to generate real applications.  This book can be seen as a high level overview of MDA and at 150 pages it is a fairly easy and quick read.  The authors show both what is available today (not too much) and what might be available in the future (perhaps all applications will be generated from models).  The authors do try to make the book practical by showing how you can use modeling tools to at least build skeletons of code that can be the start of code development.  MDA brings a new set of acronyms but this book explains each of them without too much pain.<br />So how much of what is discussed here is needed by a typical developer or designer?  Probably not too much.  But if you want to keep your eye on the future of IT then this book is well worth the read.  Perhaps one day writing code will be thought of the same way we think of writing machine language.  When that happens you will be able to say you knew it was coming.	2003-10-30
US	53021951	R8527R42VD6LL	0131402641	817872262	J2EE Security for Servlets, EJBs, and Web Services	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Lots of sample code	Security is like spinach - it's good for you but not too many people like it.  Most security books bore me to tears with page after page of description accompanying three lines of code.  This book is different.  This book is geared towards actual developers who are looking for not just explanations of security but useful examples showing how to make security work in their applications.<br />The first section of the book is an introduction to security in general and Java security in particular.  The next section looks at the basic technologies and APIs used for encryption, authentication, and authorization.  This section starts with a look into cryptography and covers JCA and JCE.  It continues with coverage of digital certificates and then looks at controlling access to resources by using policy files.  This section ends with a look at SSL and securing XML messages.  The final section examines using these technologies in various J2EE applications such as RMI, Servlets, EJBs, and Web Services.<br />The explanations throughout the book are clear and easy to follow with plenty of code samples to demonstrate how to use the various APIs associated with security in Java programs. The best part of the book is the many code samples provided and the detailed descriptions accompanying these code samples.  In addition, the author has provided a group of tools to assist with security development.  Over all this is one of the best J2EE security books on the market.<br />Note: In general, J2SE security is only covered when it involves J2EE issues but then this is &quot;J2EE Security&quot;.	2003-10-09
US	53021951	R20TNK17YOJJWV	0471449156	192241605	Jakarta Pitfalls: Time-Saving Solutions for Struts, Ant, JUnit, and Cactus (Java Open Source Library)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Using Struts?  Buy this book!	I have to admit that I am a big fan of antipattern books.  There are many ways to code an application but a few of those ways will cause problems in the long run both in debugging and maintenance.  This book looks at four of the most popular Jakarta applications, JUnit, Cactus, Struts, and Ant, and shows the most common problems that you encounter when using these applications.  The book gives a chapter each to Ant and the two testing applications JUnit and Cactus but the majority of the book is dedicated to Struts.<br />Each chapter looks at several programming mistakes and then discusses ways to revise your code to fix these mistakes and make your code more robust.  The problems with certain coding styles are well explained with clear reasoning as to why you don't want to code a particular way.  Corrective solutions are well documented with plenty of code samples to show both before and after images.<br />Although the chapters on testing and Ant are good, the heart of the book is the chapters on Struts.  The authors discuss potential problems using Actions, ActionForms, and the Struts tag library.  Some problems can just make your code more difficult to maintain while others can introduce intermittent bugs that are very difficult to diagnose.  Anyone who is using Struts should absolutely read these chapters, as it will save you from making some simple mistakes that could cause a lot of long-term pain in your development.	2003-10-04
US	53021951	R1450WNQ69RS8Y	0126567557	445319871	JSTL: Practical Guide for JSP Programmers (The Practical Guides)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	The best JSTL book on the market	JSTL provides a set of common tag libraries for JSP programmers.  This book explains the JSTL and it does it extremely well.  In about 200 pages, the book covers what the JSTL is, what to use it for, how to use it, and gives plenty of examples.<br />The start of the book covers the basics of tag libraries and explains why we need JSTL.  Next, the basics of JSTL and the expression language are covered. The one small flaw in the book is that the expression language could have been covered in a bit more detail.  The rest of the book covers each of the tags (actions) broken up into the separate libraries.  The core, XML, internationalization and formatting, and SQL actions are each given their own chapters.  The author doesn't just cover the tags but also provides enough background information to insure that you can understand how the tags are used.  For example, in the XML chapter, the author starts by explaining the different technologies around XML and then shows how the XML actions can be used to simplify the task of using XML in your JSPs.  The SQL chapter explains why you would never want to use the SQL actions before she discusses the actions themselves.  The book ends with a &quot;quick reference&quot; section.<br />Sue Spielman has a very easy writing style that makes reading her books a pleasure.  Her book is short and complete, a very difficult combination to pull off.	2003-10-03
US	53021951	R160HNC1RMT1WG	0596003447	848973537	Learning UML	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A nice introduction	O'Reilly publishes a selection of books as their &quot;Learning&quot; series. These books tend to be geared to the programmer or student unfamiliar with a technology who is looking for a good introduction.  &quot;Learning UML&quot; is a worthy addition to this series.  This book is not a complete introduction to the topic of UML diagrams but for the programmer or student wanting to get a good understanding of the basics of UML this book will serve very nicely.<br />The book starts with an explanation of why we model code and then gives a brief introduction to UML.  The author then discusses the most commonly used UML diagrams.  Class and object, use case, component and deployment, sequence and collaboration, state, and activity diagrams are each given a chapter.  How and why each diagram is used is explained with sample diagrams designed to show the most common usage.  There are exercises at the end of the main chapters with solutions for the exercises in the back of the book.  The exercises are designed to help you to check whether you have understood the information in each chapter.<br />If you are looking to become an expert in UML then there are other books that will serve that purpose.  At a little over 200 pages, this book gives enough information for most students and developers without overwhelming them with the multitude of diagrams that are available in UML.	2003-10-03
US	53021951	R2KXRRTH2OYZI4	1590591046	76318275	In Search of Stupidity: Over 20 Years of High-Tech Marketing Disasters	Books	5	28	31	N	N	He who does not learn from stupidity...	In 1982, Tom Peters told the world about how excellent companies were turning around the US economy.  What Peters failed to recognize was that many of the companies that he was looking at weren't actually \\"excellent\\" but were in fact huge clunking dinosaurs that were producing buggy whips in the age of the automobile.  New, smaller companies came around and ate the lunch of the big \\"excellent\\" guys and then proceeded to make either the exact same stupid mistakes as the big guys or new and more innovative stupid mistakes.<br />This book basically deals with the stupidity found in high tech companies of the 1980's and 1990's.  Why is Microsoft such a huge company today?  It isn't because their products were better or because they cheated other companies out of their rightful place in the market.  It's because they weren't as stupid as their competition.  Merrill Chapman takes us through the comedy of errors that companies like Digital Research, WordStar, Lotus, and Ashton-Tate went through as they tossed their market leads aside in fits of stupidity.  You can't help but laugh (or cry) at the amazing levels of stupidity that these companies exhibited. Examples: WordStar was once one of the finest word processing programs in the world.  But somehow the company ended up owning two competing mediocre products.  Lotus was the leader in spreadsheets but ignored the rise of Windows and allowed themselves to be knocked out of first place by Excel.  These and many more examples are well documented in this book.<br />The book is not an in-depth study of the business world.  You won't find very much analysis of why a particular company made such obviously fatal errors.  Why did Borland pay an outrageous sum to buy Ashton-Tate at a time when Ashton-Tate had virtually nothing that Borland needed?  You won't find the answer here.  What you will find is an amusing, well-written (without being vicious) examination of the collapse of perfectly good companies under the weight of their own serious errors of judgment.<br />There is a moral to be learned from this book.  It isn't necessary to be excellent.  In fact, excellence can be expensive and drive up your costs so much that they make your products uncompetitive.  The secret is not to be excellent, in fact you don't even have to be very smart.  All you need to be is less stupid that your competitors.  Just ask Microsoft.r own serious errors of judgment.  <br />There is a moral to be learned from this book.  It isn't necessary to be excellent.  In fact, excellence can be expensive and drive up your costs so much that they make your products uncompetitive.  The secret is not to be excellent, in fact you don't even have to be very smart.  All you need to be is less stupid that your competitors.  Just ask Microsoft.	2003-08-29
US	53021951	RGXWLI65I48XI	1930110898	202093238	Jess in Action: Java Rule-Based Systems (In Action series)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Excellent tutorial on using Jess	Jess is a rule engine written in Java.  This book is not about rules engines, although it does have a brief introduction to rules engines.  This book is about Jess.  In fact, this book is the book on Jess.  If you are interested in learning what kind of problems Jess can be used to solve and how to use Jess to solve these problems then this book will answer your questions.<br />The book is basically divided into two sections.  The first section is a tutorial on Jess.  This section starts by showing how to install and configure Jess.  The rest of this section covers the Jess syntax and demonstrates how to write rules for Jess.  The tutorial is clearly written with some simple examples that do a good job of helping to make Jess understandable.  The tutorial even shows how to do some optimizations for the rules that you write.<br />The rest of the book covers some fairly complicated applications written using Jess.  The author refers to this section as a cookbook and the examples are complex enough and explained so well that it could easily serve this purpose.  The best part of this section is that it will help someone who isn't familiar with rules engines develop ideas about how they might implement a rules engine to solve their own business requirements.  The examples themselves cover integrating Jess with Java both in typical client based applications and  J2EE web based applications.<br />If you are interested in using Jess as a possible solution to your business needs then this book is a virtual necessity.  I couldn't imagine trying to use Jess without this book.	2003-08-29
US	53021951	R3NUAYRQOS603K	1583470441	29809195	Eclipse: Step-by-Step (Step-by-Step series)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Perfect for the novice	So you download Eclipse and start it up and stare at the screen in confusion.  Or maybe you haven't even figured out how to start it up.  Don't worry.  Just get a copy of this book and you will be using Eclipse like an old ranch hand in no time.  Many books for the novice claim that they will teach you something but they hit &quot;magic happens here&quot; moments that leave you lost.  You won't find any of that in this book.  The title of this book is &quot;Step By Step&quot; and that is exactly how this book teaches the subject.<br />The book assumes that you know nothing about the subject.  After showing how to download, install, and start up Eclipse, the book takes a tour of the basic features that every programmer will need to know in order to code, test, and debug their programs.  It starts by explaining what a &quot;perspective&quot; is in Eclipse terms and examining three of the most commonly used ones.  The book then takes a look at a few simple Java programs, showing how to code and debug them.  The programs let you take a look at the SWT (Eclipse's client interface) and JDBC.  By the end of the book, even the complete novice developer will be using Eclipse without any trouble.<br />This book is geared for novice users and is not meant as a reference.  The book does not cover any of the Eclipse plug-ins.  If you are familiar with IDEs and don't feel lost when using them then this book is probably going to be too basic for you. But if you are new to IDEs and like a lot of hand holding then this book will help you to work comfortably with the product.	2003-08-19
US	53021951	R3PYBNHONONSFQ	0131422464	877600240	Core J2EE Patterns: Best Practices and Design Strategies (2nd Edition)	Books	5	25	27	N	N	A must have for J2EE architects/developers	There are two obvious changes between this second edition and the first edition of this book.  First, some new patterns have been added mostly dealing with web services.  Second, the book has been released as a hard cover book, presumably because the publisher expects this to last on your shelf as long as the original &quot;Design Pattern&quot; book.  The new patterns dealing with web services are a welcome addition to the book although anyone who is interested in this subject will probably want more detail such as found in Paul Monday's book.<br />Part 1 is an introduction to design patterns and the J2EE platform followed by a catalog of design considerations, bad practices and refactorings. Developers working with poorly designed J2EE applications will find this section especially helpful.<br />Part 2 is the collection of the design patterns and strategies. Each pattern is described in the expected level of detail.  The format will remind you of the GoF book.  Since this has become the standard format for presenting design patterns this should not be a surprise.  The patterns are well thought, explained clearly, and demonstrated with some good code samples. If you have the first edition you will be very impressed with the improvements made in this new edition.  It appears that virtually every pattern has been reworked to make the pattern easier to understand and use.<br />This is the book that every J2EE architect and programmer should have on their desk.  Using the strategies in this book will make your applications more robust, make you more productive, and make your code easier to understand and maintain. Anyone designing, architecting, or coding with J2EE will find this book to be extremely useful.	2003-08-12
US	53021951	R3APAX816S4CU7	1590590783	133350470	Bluetooth For Java	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Excellent resource for the Bluetooth API	Bluetooth is a short range (max range of 30-300 feet) wireless communications protocol. JSR-82 is a Bluetooth API for Java that allows Bluetooth enabled devices talk to each other using the Java programs.  Using Bluetooth, a PDA could talk to a printer and ask for a document to be printed or two Bluetooth enabled PDAs could exchange Java objects.  Even if you know nothing about Bluetooth or wireless communications, this book will give you enough information to get started.<br />The book starts with an examination of Bluetooth and the terminology you need to know to understand Bluetooth enabled devices.  It then gets into the basics of the Bluetooth API for Java and developing programs using J2ME MIDP.  Chapters cover creating a Bluetooth print server, passing objects between Bluetooth devices, and securing messages between devices.  The authors discuss the PC software available to simulate two Bluetooth devices talking to each other so that you can develop an application without having two Bluetooth devices sitting on your desk.  The final chapters covers topics such as Jini and Ericsson BlipNet.  The book contains many well commented code samples demonstrating how to use the Bluetooth API.<br />The book is very clear and concise.  The book reads as if it was written by a couple of enthusiastic Bluetooth developers anxious to share the technology.  And they do an excellent job of doing exactly that.  The book is well written and interesting.  I started the book knowing almost nothing about Bluetooth but now I feel confident that I can develop Bluetooth applications.  If you have any interest in Bluetooth then I can recommend this book as an excellent resource.	2003-07-24
US	53021951	R14EFIT350BMSW	0321173848	104812201	JDBC¿ API Tutorial and Reference (3rd Edition)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	The only JDBC book you will need	Whether you are a beginner, intermediate, or advanced JDBC programmer you will find useful information in this book.  The book is divided into two sections.  The first section is a tutorial on using JDBC which makes up four chapters. The tutorial starts with a look at JDBC 1.0.  The next chapter looks at the additional features added to JDBC in 2.0 and 3.0.  The third tutorial chapter looks at metadata.  The final chapter examines the RowSet interface, which is complex enough to need its own chapter.<br />The remainder of the book (about 800 pages) is a reference containing a chapter for each class or interface in JDBC.  Each chapter contains an overview of a class or interface, sections on anything of either special interest or complexity, and then a list of all the methods of the class or interface with complete descriptions.  If a section applies to a particular version of JDBC, the version it applies to is clearly marked.  The information contained in the reference is much more than you can find in the APIs.  The reference section itself is well laid out to make the information you need easy to find.<br />This is probably the only JDBC book you will ever need.  No matter which version of JDBC your database drivers support, you will find your answers in this book.  The book is well written with clear explanations and plenty of code samples (which can be downloaded from the Sun web site) .  Anyone working with JDBC will want this book by their side while they are coding.	2003-07-16
US	53021951	R20UFIQ4G1S4EA	0201914662	666893280	Applying Enterprise JavaBeans 2.1: Component-Based Development for the J2EE Platform (2nd Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	New edition is excellent	This new edition of &quot; Applying Enterprise JavaBeans&quot; is a well written look at the Enterprise JavaBeans 2.1 specification.  The explanations of the various topics are in-depth and yet easy to follow.  The authors provide diagrams and supporting code samples demonstrating how to write the code for each topic covered.  They also provide explanations of when a particular technology is appropriate for your applications.  The book even has a glossary so that if you forgot what an acronym stands for, you can look it up.<br />The book covers all the usual topics one would expect in a book on EJBs.  It starts with a general overview and then takes a look at each of the various bean types.  Session beans (stateful and stateless), message driven beans, and entity beans are each covered.  An application example is discussed which includes packaging of the application for production.  The following chapter covers integrating web services into your EJB applications. Subsequent chapters cover transactions and security.  The authors have done a great job of explaining not just how to code EJBs but also how they work within an application server, which you need to know to use EJBs successfully.<br />The book is similar to the O'Reilly book in size and scope although this book has the advantage of being more current.  Overall, the book is well written, easy to follow, and extremely useful.  If you are new to EJBs or if you are looking for a book to bring you up to date on the new specification then this book will make a good choice.	2003-07-14
US	53021951	RWWVD4YHGLQK2	0321198018	794777753	MIDP 2.0 Style Guide for the Java 2 Platform, Micro Edition	Books	4	3	4	N	N	The standard for designing MIDlets	If you are designing Java programs to run on cell phones or PDAs then you will want to keep this style guide nearby.  This will not teach you how to code but it will teach you how to design your MIDlets so that they will be usable.  The book will show you what works and what doesn't work on small devices. You won't find a single line of code in this book because that is not what this book is about.  What you will find are lots of samples of good design and bad design plus plenty of recommendations to help you to write usable MIDlets.<br />The target audience for the book is made up of two groups, those who are porting the Java environment to a new device (implementors) and those who are writing MIDlets to run on those devices (application developers).  The book is well structured to show what is the responsibility of each group.  For example, the style guide tells the application developer not to worry about text that is too long to fit in a field because it is the responsibility of the implementor to determine if text should be clipped or wrapped.<br />The book starts with some basic guidelines (make your code simple, predictable, and efficient) and a description of the minimum MIDP hardware (tiny screen, limited input, two colors, and little memory).  The authors then get into the main focus of the book, designing MIDlets.  Starting with screen layouts, they take us through the different items you can place on a screen such as lists, text fields, forms, commands, etc.  The focus is not on how to code but on how to make these items usable.  The book also covers issues such as push, security, and touch input from the usability point of view.<br />There is no doubt that this book will be the standard for designing programs for MIDP devices.  This book can help you avoid a lot of simple (and not so simple) mistakes that you may not notice until you get to usability testing.  You could write your MIDlets without this book but why not save yourself some headaches.	2003-07-14
US	53021951	R1UP13S408MGOX	0201719541	633837369	Java¿ Development on PDAs: Building Applications for Pocket PC and Palm Devices	Books	4	6	8	N	N	PersonalJava and MIDP in one well written book!	Doing development for PDAs is a bit complex as different PDAs support different J2ME implementations.  The two main J2ME implementations available for PDAs are MIDP, which is available on most Palm devices, and PersonalJava, which is available on most PocketPC and Windows CE devices.  This book covers both of these implementations and explains the differences between the two in clear and concise language.  The book is relatively short at about 200 pages but it covers the material in sufficient depth to get you started in developing for both of these environments.<br />The book starts off by explaining the many different configurations and points out which configurations are available on which devices.  Next, after showing us how to set up a test environment, the author discusses the coding issues involved with working with devices with limited memory and speed.  The next few chapters discuss developing a user interface, storing data, networking, and accessing web services.  The differences between MIDP and PersonalJava are pointed out in each section with plenty of code samples demonstrating these differences.<br />The book is written for anyone with a basic knowledge of Java.  No knowledge of J2ME is assumed and you don't even need a PDA to run the provided code (although how to get your code on your PDA is discussed).  You should be familiar with Ant to make use of the provided build scripts.  The book serves mostly as a tutorial although it could be used as a reference as well.  Although there are several books out that cover developing for MIDP, there is very little information available for PersonalJava and for comparing MIDP with PersonalJava.  This book fills that slot nicely.	2003-07-11
US	53021951	R9FE5N68W8R7D	0131428489	739586802	UML for Java¿ Programmers	Books	2	34	43	N	N	&quot;Why I Hate UML&quot; by Robert C. Martin	This book could have easily been titled, &quot;Bob Martin hates UML&quot;.  Actually, that it isn't quite fair.  Only the first part should have that title.  The second section should be named, &quot;UML is boring so let's design an object oriented coffee pot&quot;.  The last section could be titled, &quot;I don't have anything else to say so let me pad the book with 50 pages of Java code&quot;.<br />As far as UML goes, the book covers five diagrams.  The author's advice can be summed up as &quot;don't use UML except on the back of a napkin that you immediately throw away&quot;.  Use cases are reduced to four pages and he advises against getting any real details. He likes sequence diagrams as long as they are so trivial that they impart no real information.  He gives an example of a &quot;too complex&quot; diagram that in half of a page clearly and simply shows the inter-relationship between six classes.  Trying to understand this same relationship with code could take hours.<br />The big problem for this book is that the author is in love with his process.  He is an XP proponent and uses this book to push the XP paradigm.  The problem is that a lot of programmers that are not using XP will not realize how XP-centric this book is from looking at the title.  XP is not the only process and many programmers work in environments where designers design and developers write code.  This book will not help them and could actually hinder them by giving them the wrong idea about the usefulness of UML.  If you are looking for a book to help you understand how to use UML to design and develop complex J2EE applications then I strongly recommend &quot;Enterprise Java and UML&quot; (ISBN: 0471267783).  I would avoid this book.	2003-07-10
US	53021951	R32PIOA28JL57Z	1590590848	397696930	Web Services Patterns: Java Edition	Books	4	8	13	N	N	Required reading for web service architects	Now that we have read all the books on the basics of web services and have a good understanding of how they are supposed to work it is time to get down to actually trying to create some decent designs for our web services applications.  That is where this book fits in.  The book shows how to apply design patterns to a web service architecture in order to solve common design problems.  If you are designing a web service architecture you will want to read this book before drawing another UML diagram.<br />The book starts out by looking at the design patterns used in web services itself.  These are the patterns utilized by software such as Apache Axis.  This part of the book was interesting but not overly useful.  The next part, making up most of the book, covers design patterns that you are likely to need in developing web applications.  This part of the book is excellent.  Each pattern is discussed in detail and then demonstrated in a case study that is developed throughout the book.  Some of the patterns covered are event monitor, observer (with a good comparison of the advantages and disadvantages of the two), business process, asynchronous business process, physical tiers, faux implementation, and service factory.  The book covers twenty different patterns so if these don't sound applicable to your application there is bound to be another that will be applicable.<br />The book contains only snippets of code from the case study so you will need to download the code in order to get the full value of the case study.  The book does include the parts of code that apply to the pattern under discussion.  The reader of this book should be comfortable with web services and design patterns in general and be ready for an in-depth discussion of web services architecture.	2003-07-10
US	53021951	R13KGI0W3Z8PZ3	1890774189	54181338	Murach's Java Servlets and JSP	Books	5	23	24	N	N	The best tutorial for the novice	If you are looking for a book that is going to teach you Servlets and JSP in a very easy way with a lot of hand holding then you are looking for this book.  The authors make the assumption that the reader knows the basics of Java but has absolutely no knowledge of internet programming.<br />The book starts by guiding the reader through the process of installing Tomcat (all the samples use Tomcat as the servlet engine) and creating a simple HTML page before they introduce you to Servlets and JSP.  Servlets and JSP are covered separately and then working together in the Model 2 architecture.  The one thing missing from this section is any mention of Struts or other MVC frameworks.  Advanced topics such as using SSL and restricting access to a web site are covered very well and in a way that makes it easy to follow and understand.  The authors even show how to write your own tag libraries.  Unfortunately, no mention is made of JSTL.  The authors show how to install and use MySQL and how to code SQL before moving on to explain using JDBC in a web application.  The book ends with a complete sample application of an online store including secure credit card handling.<br />This is an excellent tutorial that will painlessly teach you how to write complex web applications.  I doubt that there is another book available that makes the subject this easy to understand.	2003-06-24
US	53021951	RARUDDT474OUW	189077412X	351260654	Murach's Beginning Java 2	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Excellent for the novice	Note that this review does not apply to the JDK 5 edition of this book.  That book had too many errors and earned only two stars but a bug in the reviewing software of Amazon is preventing me from posting that review.<br /><br />This is an excellent introduction to the Java programming language.  This book has several good things about it that make it an excellent resource for the inexperienced programmer.  First, it is simple and easy to follow.  Second, it allows the inexperienced programmer to quickly start writing programs.  Third, it covers only the basics avoiding anything that would make learning more difficult than necessary.  The book works by concentrating on how things work.  Sections are entitled,  \\"How to work with the String class, \\"  \\"How to catch exceptions, \\" etc.  The book gives brief descriptions followed by practical examples.<br /><br />However, the book needs to be updated.  Although the cover says that it include version 1.4, only the CD has been updated, not the book itself.  Inner classes are given brief mention and the discussion of local classes is reduced to a sentence.  The Collection and Map frameworks are not mentioned at all.  Only the Vector class is discussed and that is only given four pages.  On the positive side, JDBC is discussed as well as file I/O and threads.<br /><br />Overall this book is very good for the person with little or no programming experience wanting to get some practical knowledge of Java.  Other books might provide more information and be more current but they are also more difficult to follow.  You are unlikely to find another book that has as much hand holding as this book.  If you want to learn Java and would prefer a book that will gently teach you the basics then this book would make an excellent choice.	2003-06-23
US	53021951	R3G87VN8A554QL	0471267783	798423311	Enterprise Java and UML, Second Edition	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Excellent Book for OO Analysis	This book takes you through the development of an application from proposal to implementation.  In alternating chapters the authors explain the use of UML for a particular step in the development lifecycle and then demonstrate what they just explained to develop a sample timecard system. The best part of the book, which is not significantly different than the first edition, is the first half in which the authors discuss requirements gathering and object oriented analysis. The book is worth the price for this first part alone.<br />The second half of the book has been expanded to discuss new J2EE technologies.  The chapters on evaluating technologies are good as far as discussing how to evaluate technologies but the actual analysis is weak as they ignore candidate technologies such as Struts in favor of their own homegrown HTML production framework.  They also fail to explain why EJBs are a better choice for their sample application than simply using Servlets/JSPs/JDBC.  The final section on design gets bogged down with too many pages of code listings and not enough explanations for the code.<br />Arrington and Rayhan have done a very good job explaining UML although some familiarity with UML notation (or at least a handy manual) would be helpful.  If you already own the first edition then you can ignore this edition.  If you don't own it then you will definitely want to read this book.  This is a must have book for any Java architect/developer doing OOAD.	2003-06-23
US	53021951	RHBDSKBEPSLOV	0201799405	996159849	Code Reading: The Open Source Perspective (v. 1)	Books	3	62	79	N	N	Unfocused	Programmers need to be able to look at code and analyze what it does in order to change it or fix it.  The concept behind this book is to use many of the open source code samples to discuss how to read code and how to spot potential trouble areas in code.  Unfortunately the book doesn't stay focused on this single goal and that detracts from its overall value.  The book spends too much time explaining the basics of programming instead of concentrating on reading code.  It also bounces around from one language to another, from C to C++ to Perl to Java, which is very confusing.  For example, if you are a Java programmer do you really care how the C compiler optimizes strcmp calls? And what does that have to do with reading code?<br />Some of the advice is fairly basic such as try to realign indentations properly and replace complex code structures with simple placeholders when doing analysis.  Although there are parts of the book that are excellent, too many of these good parts are wrapped under what should be basic concepts to anyone reading code.  How can you debug a Java program, for example, if you are unfamiliar with abstract classes, libraries, or polymorphism?  Do you really need a book on code reading to explain basic object oriented programming?<br />Overall, the book seems very unfocused and I really can't recommend it.	2003-06-23
US	53021951	R213002R6YGR6B	0321159640	224674490	The Java(TM) Developer's Guide to Eclipse	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Excellent for those writing plug-ins	The authors of this book are part of a core IBM group formed to share knowledge of the Eclipse universal IDE.  The first part of this book deals with using Eclipse from a Java developers point of view.  I found this was not any more helpful than the documentation available on the Eclipse web site.  Eclipse works extensively with plug-ins that can be integrated into the Eclipse environment to provide new functionality. I would have liked to see something on some of the more popular plug-ins such as those used to run application servers.  Even a list of where to go to get plug-ins would have been helpful.  Unfortunately, this part of the book only covers the basics of what comes with Eclipse and does not discuss any existing plug-ins.<br />The second part of the book, about 450 pages,  covers writing your own plug-ins.  This part of the book is excellent.  It covers not just the basics, but virtually everything you need to know to write your own plug-ins.  Whether you wish to code a new toolbar, editor, specialized view, or wizard, it is all covered in this section. With this book you will be writing plug-ins in a fraction of the time you would have otherwise spent. The book also contains exercises which allow you to test your new knowledge.<br />If your only goal is to use Eclipse then you don't need this book.  If your desire is to write plug-ins then I wouldn't even try without it.	2003-06-17
US	53021951	R2GJZFZACMOU2U	1590590996	231689244	Logging in Java with the JDK 1.4 Logging API and Apache log4j	Books	4	10	15	N	N	Very well written book	This book covers the two most popular logging APIS, the one built in to JDK 1.4 and the Apache log4j. The book starts with a brief introduction to logging and why we should care about it.  The rest of the book is divided into two parts, each discussing one of the two APIs.  The final chapter covers best practices and a brief comparison of the two APIs.  The sections on the logging APIs are divided into two parts, the first discussing the features of the API and the next discussing how to create your own custom components to extend the API.<br />The book is very well written.  The author does a nice job of combining the discussion with code examples to make the topics clear.  He uses UML diagrams appropriately to help the reader understand how a log request flows through the many classes.  He clearly explains each of the classes in the logging frameworks and how to properly use them.  The discussion of log4j ends with a chapter on the log tag library written for use with JSPs.<br />Overall this is a very good book.  If you are doing no more than very basic logging then this book is probably a lot more information than you need.  But if you want to incorporate logging into your development projects in more than just a very basic way or if you are interested in comparing in detail the two APIs, you will find this book useful.	2003-05-23
US	53021951	R1U55PL6F5RMWA	1590590880	977791317	Enterprise JavaBeans 2.1	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Nice Introduction to EJB	This book is aimed towards the experienced Java developer who is familiar with distributed environments, Servlets, JSPs, and JDBC and wants to get a good in-depth introduction into Enterprise JavaBeans. The book starts with an introduction to EJB technology and the EJB architecture in general.  This book is translated into English and these beginning chapters seem to suffer a little bit in the translation as some of the sentences are poorly constructed.  The later chapters don't have this problem however. After the introduction, the book covers each of the different types of beans (session, entity, and message) in detail with a discussion of when and how to use them.  Examples of their use from both the server and client side are provided.  The deployment descriptors for each type are also covered.  Transactions and security are discussed with examples that help to clearly explain how these mechanisms work in EJBs.  The authors then discuss some of the practical issues that arise when developing an EJB application such as performance and bean interaction.  In the final chapter, the authors explain where EJB fits in with Web Services and then give a brief discussion of the standard timer service added to EJB 2.1.  The authors do a good job of not just showing how to use EJBs but also explaining what it is and why you would want to use it.  The level of detail makes this a good book for both developers and architects.	2003-05-06
US	53021951	R1R3NRKUBQ14P0	0596002807	736762405	NetBeans: The Definitive Guide	Books	4	4	5	N	N	clear explanations and examples	NetBeans, a free IDE available ..., is based on donated code developed by Sun. The NetBeans architecture is an open architecture that supports plug-ins for each function of the IDE. This book, which discusses the NetBeans IDE, is made up of two parts. The first part is a description of the IDE designed for the NetBeans user. The NetBeans architecture is described in detail. The book covers each of the different pieces such as editing, compiling, and debugging. The book also covers using the NetBeans GUI editor to design visual components. Integrating NetBeans with CVS and Ant is also covered. The book does a fairly good job in this section of providing a handy manual for NetBeans users. The second part of the book is aimed at those who wish to use the NetBeans open architecture to define their own modules to be added to NetBeans. This part of the book is very well written and will serve as a major resource for anyone interested in module writing. Several examples are demonstrated including building an IMAP email server and client to integrate into NetBeans. The first part of the book is for a general audience and will be useful but it isn't required reading to use NetBeans. The second part of the book has a more limited audience but will be extremely useful to anyone interested in writing NetBeans modules. Overall this is a well-written book with clear explanations and examples.	2003-04-08
US	53021951	R11SVPQY4SIR4C	0672324261	805814479	Ant Developer's Handbook	Books	4	11	12	N	N	A good introduction to Ant	Ant has become a widely used tool and should be part of every developer's toolkit.  This book is a nice introduction for the developer who is unfamiliar with Ant and is looking to get started using it.  If you are a developer who is experienced with Ant then this book will not be of much interest to you.  The book starts with a nice introduction to Ant showing how to create and use a typical build script.  The first three chapters cover the basics of Ant and the authors do a nice job of making Ant simple to understand.  The next two chapters cover all the built-in and optional tasks that are part of Ant.  This section is of limited use to the new Ant user.  Since the tasks are listed in alphabetical order and broken out into separate chapters for built-in and optional tasks, you have to know what you are looking for in order to find it.  It would have been nice to have a list of all the tasks with a brief description all in one or two pages which would have made it much easier to find a task.  There is one brief chapter explaining how to write your own Ant tasks.  Troubleshooting Ant scripts is followed by two chapters showing real world examples of using Ant. The book ends with a discussion of tool support.  Conclusion: the authors have done a very nice job of explaining Ant for the novice Ant user.	2003-04-03
US	53021951	R1DLDHB1WRW268	0672322579	821968169	Cocoon Developer's Handbook	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Very well done	Cocoon is a Java-based open source XML content manager and publishing engine from the Apache project.  This book was written as an introduction to Cocoon for the developer with a good background in XML and Java but with no background in Cocoon.  Part I of the book is an introduction to Cocoon.  I found this part of the book to be very difficult and confusing. There was a lot of writing on Generators, Transformers, and Serializers, but the overall discussion was hard to follow.  Fortunately, this was only the first 65 pages of the book.  Starting with Part II, the book takes on a whole new and much better flavor.  After a chapter describing how to install Cocoon, the authors go right into some real examples of how to use Cocoon.  Suddenly all the information from Part I which felt incomplete started making sense.  The examples and sample code (which need to be downloaded) are excellent in explaining how to use Cocoon.  This section goes through example after example, each demonstrating more of the functionality of Cocoon. All the examples worked exactly as advertised and were well designed to demonstrate the many capabilities of Cocoon.  Part III of the book discusses advanced topics such as database connectivity, web services, and integrating Cocoon with EJBs.  Part IV covers design factors, administration, etc.  The last two parts of the book are reference tools.  Overall, I though the authors did a good job of making Cocoon easy to understand.	2003-04-02
US	53021951	R2WX2GZRFJWR86	0130622214	147426910	C# How to Program	Books	3	14	14	N	N	Needs some work	Deitel books have been getting better and better with each new release. The later editions of &quot;Java How To Program&quot; were a vast improvement over the early editions of the book. Taking that experience, Deitel published this, their first C# book, in December 2001. The result is a mix of good and not so good. The overall approach to the topic is the standard Deitel method of covering topics in-depth with plenty of code samples. Anyone familiar with their C++ or Java books will recognize the Deitel formula immediately. In this case, the book suffers a little from being a first edition. The book covers all the main topics of the C# language, explains how to use Visual Studio, gives a primer on object oriented programming, and touches upon some advanced topics such as ADO, ASP, and web services. The book does have a feel of being rushed, however. Some of the examples seem either overly contrived or unnecessarily confusing. In some cases the explanations of the code are incomplete. For some reason, Deitel chose to print this book using only black and red instead of the multi-color print used in their Java books. Overall, this book is one of the better introductory C# books. It covers a much wider array of topics than many of the other C# books available and in general it covers them reasonably well. The CD does not include a student or demo copy of Visual Studio.	2003-03-15
US	53021951	R3D2OSBHFHB746	0596003773	976518386	Java Performance Tuning (2nd Edition)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Fun and informative	Once the business rules have been settled and all that is left is to tune the code, then the fun starts. Like a race car mechanic trying to squeeze out a couple of extra MPH from a race car, the most fun in programming is to try squeeze out extra performance from some code. A book on performance tuning should understand that and make the topic fun. Reading this book it is clear that Jack Shirazi loves to tune code. He has done an incredible amount of detailed research on different JVMs to determine exactly how to make Java perform. But he is also practical. He explains how to find performance problems, which exact areas to concentrate on, and which areas to ignore. After reading this book you won't waste your time on areas of code that can't be easily optimized and instead you'll know how to concentrate on those places where you can get the most bang. The book has been updated from the earlier edition to bring all the information up to date with the latest JVMs. Best of all, an additional 250 pages has been added to the book covering J2EE including Servlets, JSPs, EJBs, and JDBC. &quot;Java Performance Tuning&quot; is a programmer's book. You are guaranteed to learn a lot of very neat and useful tricks. I doubt that there is another Java book on the market with as many &quot;WOW!&quot; moments in it. Buy it and watch your code zoom.	2003-03-15
US	53021951	RGIA3FQ98FLF3	0471236403	717879763	Developing Java Web Services: Architecting and Developing Secure Web Services Using Java	Books	5	8	14	N	N	Full of examples - a great tutorial	The cover of this book says, &quot;Timely. Practical. Reliable.&quot; and that is a good description of the book.  It covers the current state of Java APIs for web services, it gives plenty of well thought out examples, and it provides enough information to actually make the alphabet soup of acronyms understandable. The book starts with an introduction to web services.  The next section covers web services architecture and the standard technologies of SOAP, WSDL, and UDDI.  Interoperability with non-Java applications is demonstrated with a .NET example.  The book is written by three Sun employees so it does tend to be a bit Sun-centric as the next sections shows.  The Java Web Services Developers Pack (JWSDP) is given plenty of coverage.  JAXP, JAXB, JAXM, JAX-RPC, JAXR, may be just acronyms when you get this book but after reading the six chapters covering the JWSDP they will be technologies that you understand.  A case study wraps up the six chapters putting the whole thing together. The book ends with a chapter on security and a look at Sun ONE. The book is full of examples demonstrating how to use each of these technologies. When you read a line such as, &quot;The real fun is understanding how the EncryptDecrypt class works,&quot; you know you are dealing with authors who love code. For developing Java web services you will be hard pressed to find a better book than this one.	2003-03-09
US	53021951	RMBZ7BMS9EV6P	193011088X	9048232	Swing, Second Edition	Books	5	24	24	N	N	The Bible of Swing	Two years ago, the JavaRanch reviewer, Anmarie Ziegler, wrote this about the first edition: &quot;Overall this is an excellent book, and I would recommend it for the intermediate to advanced Swing developer.&quot; The same can be said of the second edition of &quot;Swing&quot;. This edition has been updated to bring it up to Java 1.4 with new examples, new components, and three new chapters. You should note that this book is not for beginners. If &quot;threads&quot;, &quot;anonymous classes&quot;, or &quot;event handling&quot; are foreign words to you then you should go over the basic Swing chapters  in a Java intro book such as &quot;Beginning Java 2&quot; by Ivor Horton.  If you consider yourself at least an intermediate Java programmer and are comfortable with the basics of the AWT and you want to learn Swing very well then you are ready for this book.  The authors have written the Bible of Swing. This book covers not just the basics of Swing but goes beyond that to teach you how to build your own Swing components.  The cover states that the book contains, &quot;production quality code&quot; and this is exactly what it contains. You will find no simple &quot;Hello World&quot; examples but instead demonstrations of how to make use of the real power of Swing. The coding samples you will find in this book are extremely detailed and well commented.  If you want to learn how to be a competent Swing developer then you should get this book.	2003-03-03
US	53021951	R3NPQFOCW4TUW1	0131016210	858790755	Java How to Program, Fifth Edition	Books	4	17	22	N	N	A very impressive textbook	Once again, Deitel has published a very impressive book. This new edition has been updated for Java 1.4 with, among other topics, coverage of regular expression and NIO.  In addition, chapters on JDBC, Servlets, and JSP have been added.  The chapter on object oriented programming and polymorphism has been rewritten and expanded into two chapters.  The book has been cleaned up with redundancy removed in order to keep it around 1500 pages.  Overall, the book is as complete as you would want in an introduction to Java. The book covers virtually everything in J2SE, gives a good primer on object oriented programming, covers design patterns and UML, and even gives an introduction to server side development. There's enough information in this book for at least two semesters of Java. All this information can be overwhelming but the authors use extensive, well commented color coded program samples to explain each topic.  It is almost impossible to turn a page and not find either code samples or a diagram. In addition, there is a natural flow from topic to topic.  This book was written as a college textbook and it has a college textbook &quot;feel&quot;.  Each chapter has well thought out exercises but the solutions must be purchased separately.  A lab manual for this book is also available (release date, July 1, 2003).  If you are planning on teaching a Java course and you are looking for a textbook this is book would make a good choice.	2003-03-03
US	53021951	R3Q56LYHNYVQCV	0131001531	38124373	Core JSTL: Mastering the JSP Standard Tag Library	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Excellent for Servlet/JSP developers	The JSP Standard Tag Library is designed to simplify many of the difficult tasks encountered while creating JSPs. This book covers the new built-in tags and the expression language which are part of JSTL.  The book describes itself as a \\"definitive\\" guide and that fairly well sums it up. JSTL is covered in excellent detail with lots of examples and sample code. The book is divided into three parts. The first part introduces JSTL and discusses the JSTL expression language. Examples of proper usage as well as common errors are shown.  The next part covers the tags themselves (referred to as actions). This part is split over several chapters including chapters on conditional actions, iteration actions, i18n actions, database actions, and XML actions. Each action is covered in detail with at least one example of its usage.  The final section is a short reference covering all the actions.  Overall, I found this book to be very well written guide to JSTL. I think most Servlet/JSP developers will find this to be an excellent resource for learning JSTL. There were a couple of places in the book that I found the author's explanations a little confusing but overall he does an excellent job of helping to understand how to properly use JSTL.	2003-02-24
US	53021951	RZUIHW726LH0G	0672324539	453831974	Data Structures and Algorithms in Java (2nd Edition)	Books	5	46	47	N	N	Excellent book	Just about every Computer Science program requires a course called &quot;Data Structures and Algorithms&quot;. In order to become a programmer you must understand the information provided in this course. This book was written as a textbook for a &quot;Data Structures and Algorithms&quot; course and all the expected topics are covered; arrays, queues, stacks, linked lists, trees, hash tables, heaps, sorting, recursion, and searching. Whether you are a teacher looking for a text, a student who wants a better text than the required one, or just someone who wants to learn more about programming, this book is a very good choice. By using Java, all the complications of C++ are eliminated and the author's crystal clear explanations come shining through. And the author's explanations and examples are excellent. For example, the chapter on link lists explains what a linked list is, what problems it is supposed to solve and what problems it fails to solve, and then shows how to implement your own link list.  The author provides a set of applets to visually illustrate the topics covered in the book. There are questions at the end of each chapter and answers are provided. This book is not going to explain the Collection classes or help you learn the API. What this book will do is help you get a deeper understanding of what data structures are, how they work, and what performance sacrifices must be made in order to achieve better overall performance in your programs.	2003-02-09
US	53021951	RP51BDZHQYWDT	0596003285	736871524	Programming Jakarta Struts	Books	4	21	26	N	N	Good coverage but could be better	The target for the book is any experienced Java developer who is interested in Struts but has little or no experience with Struts. The book starts with an explanation of why Struts is a &quot;good thing&quot; and shows how Struts fits into a web architecture. The author then gives an explanation of each of the pieces of the Struts architecture and demonstrates a simple application. Although the explanations were clear, I felt that the author was making the architecture overly complicated by explaining things out of order.  A diagram showing the interrelationships of the different Struts classes and config files would have been helpful. The author covers all the expected topics such as internationalization, exception handling, logging, and the Struts tag libraries. The chapter on the Struts tag libraries could have used more examples to make the explanations clearer.  The book concentrates on Struts 1.1 and the author does a nice job of explaining the changes from the 1.0 version and the features available in the new version. The chapter on the new Validator framework is clear and the examples are on target.  The chapter on Tiles is short but the author does a great job of explaining how it fits into the Struts architecture. The chapter on performance seemed completely unnecessary since there was nothing in it specific to Struts.  Overall this book is a good addition to the Struts library. The book has some shortcomings but it provides a good deal of value.	2003-02-09
US	53021951	R38U0F70LVNVED	0782141315	115690900	Cocoon 2 Programming: Web Publishing with XML and Java	Books	1	17	17	N	N	Desperately seeking editing	What the authors of this book desperately needed was an editor. This book is a mess. There is no sense of flow. There is no attempt by the authors to explain a topic and then delve further into it building upon what they show us. Instead we get detail. We are told Cocoon is made up of these frameworks and these frameworks use these design patterns and are made up of these pieces which are made up of these pieces. And in the end we know no more than when we started. We are told Cocoon contains these Java classes and are given a sentence explaining each one. We are given lists of SAX classes with no clear explanation of why we should be interested. There are lots of tables and lists and charts that explain nothing. The book never gives a clear explanation of what Cocoon does or how Java fits into Cocoon. The chapter on LogicSheets is a perfect example. There are thirty three tables in this chapter going page after page with no clear explanation of what the tables mean. Then the example at the end of the chapter is so trivial as to be meaningless. In fact, the examples throughout the book are much too simplistic and don't demonstrate the power of Cocoon. There is no question that an enormous amount of research went into this book. It's a shame that the authors weren't able to present that research in a useful way.	2003-01-12
US	53021951	R2YOKGOCTJGA0	1890627119	987631952	Classroom Language Skills for Children With Down Syndrome: A Guide for Parents and Teachers (Topics in Down Syndrome)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Buy it for your child's teacher!	This book picks up from where Dr. Kumin's earlier book, \\"Communication Skills in Children with Down Syndrome\\" leaves off. Aimed at the elementary and middle school years, this book is about developing good communication and learning skills. Parents and teachers interested in reading skills will want to look at, \\"Teaching Reading to Children with Down Syndrome,\\" by Patricia Logan Oelwein. I have had the pleasure of hearing Dr. Kumin speak and she is undoubtedly one of the leading expert on communication skills in children with Down syndrome. The book starts with a look at what language skills a child will need in school and then goes on to discuss building a team and a curriculum to reach that goal. The main topic of the book is how to help the child with Down syndrome learn in an inclusive environment. Dr. Kumin shows us that children with Down syndrome can learn and can succeed but they may need to have the curriculum adapted to their needs. For example, she shows how worksheets can be confusing for a child with Down syndrome but she also shows how they can be easily adapted to make them less confusing. Many children fail, not because they don't understand the material but rather because they have trouble following complicated multi-step instructions. One specific example she discusses is math word problems. The complex language of the word problem can be very difficult for the child to understand even though they have no difficulty doing the actual math problem. Dr. Kumin discusses how IDEA requires that children with disabilities be given accommodations in order to help them be fairly assessed. As a parent or a teacher you will want to read this book. The research discussed and the many ideas put forth can help a child succeed and build self confidence where before there was fear and failure. If you are a teacher of a child with Down syndrome, buy this book. If you are a parent of a child with Down syndrome then buy two copies, one for yourself and the other for your child's teacher.your child's teacher.	2002-11-23
US	53021951	RS4U847OUXIYC	0471418153	459298928	Down Syndrome: Visions for the 21st Century	Books	5	23	23	N	N	A collection of very interesting articles	At the NDSS annual conference in Washington, DC in 2000, the sponsors asked the participants to share their ideas. This book is a result of that request. Many of the names will be familiar to those who live in the world of Down syndrome. There are articles by Martha Beck Ph.D. and Siegfried Pueschel M.D. on the role of the family; Len Leshin M.D., Pat Winders P.T., and William Cohen M.D. on health issues; George Capone M.D. and Joan Medlen R.D. on psycho-social issues; and Chris Burke on living with Down syndrome; as well as a host of others. The book also features articles on communication, inclusion, advocacy, research, and self-determination. There is a wealth of very useful information in this book. David Patterson Ph.D. writes about the human genome project and what impact it may have on understanding Down syndrome. Libby Kumin, Ph.D. writes about maximizing communication and language skills in infants, toddlers, children, and adolescents. Patricia Logan Oelwein, M.Ed. writes about math and reading skills in children with Down syndrome. There are also a few lesser known names in here such as John Peter Illarramendi, Jeffrey Mattson, Mia Peterson, and Joshua G. O'Neill, all people with Down syndrome who write about their lives, hopes, and dreams.  They remind us that people with Down syndrome can achieve a great deal and can live wonderfully fulfilling lives. This isn't a book for a new parent and it certainly shouldn't be your first book on Down syndrome. There are other books such as \\"Babies with Down Syndrome,\\" that would be a better choice as a first book. But this book does provide a lot of very useful and interesting information. Anyone interested in finding out what is going on in the world of Down syndrome will want to get a copy.	2002-11-22
US	53021951	R1HJZIM8FSAIZV	0933149646	955382891	Babies With Down Syndrome: A New Parent's Guide (The Special-Needs Collection)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	The first book you should get	In the delivery room when my son Mikey was born, we were told he had Down syndrome. We knew very little about the condition and were confused and frightened about the future. Our son's geneticist gave us a copy of this book and it answered almost all of our questions, including some we never thought to ask. The information in this book relieved many of our fears and showed us how to be the best parents for our son. The book starts with a forward by Ann M. Forts, a member of the Board of Directors of the National Down Syndrome Congress; the New Hampshire Developmental Disabilities Council; and the President's Committee on Mental Retardation. Ms. Forts also happens to be a person with Down syndrome. Right away, we knew this book was going to be positive! The book starts with a chapter on what is Down syndrome followed by a chapter on adjusting to your new child. Chapter 3 discusses some of the medical issues that are associated with Down syndrome. This is good information to be aware of even if you never need it. The next few chapters discuss taking care of your baby, family life, how your baby will develop, early intervention, and educating the child with Down syndrome. The last chapter covers your legal rights. Every chapter has several pages of short quotes from parents. It helped to lessen the fear and stress to read that other parents are coping. This is by far the best book for the new parent of a child with Down syndrome. Before you read anything else, you will want to read this book.	2002-11-22
US	53021951	R3J4M1N6UUMR3Q	1890627062	484750065	We'll Paint the Octopus Red	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	Best book for this age group	Six year old Emma isn't very happy about the idea of having a new brother or sister but when Emma and her dad start thinking of all the things that they can do with the new baby, Emma becomes excited at the prospect of being a big sister. When her dad comes home and tells Emma that her new brother, Isaac, has Down syndrome, Emma worries that he won't be able to do any of the fun things that she has imagined. As Emma and her dad think back over all the things they wanted to do with the new baby, they realize together that as long as they are patient and helped him when he needed it, there wasn't anything he couldn't do. This is a reassuring story for young children bewildered by Down syndrome and what it means for their relationship with their new sibling. This is truly a wonderful story. Your child will ask you why you are crying after you read it to them. Of all the books for this age group, this book is by far the best.	2002-11-22
US	53021951	R1A3QUZ9HMO9JY	0471296872	683935526	Down Syndrome: A Promising Future, Together	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A collection of very interesting articles	This book is a collection of 34 articles summarizing many of the presentations at one of the recent NDSS annual conferences. The list of authors read like a who's who of the Down syndrome community. The book is divided into ten sections with articles ranging from advocacy to communication to education to the role of the family. The last section is made up of six articles written by people with Down syndrome. The book is very similar to the more recently published \\"Down Syndrome: Visions for the 21st Century,\\" (ISBN: 0471418153). But this book is not replaced by the new edition. The articles in this book are different and are still very much worth reading. This isn't a book for a new parent and it certainly shouldn't be your first book on Down syndrome. There are other books such as \\"Babies with Down Syndrome,\\" that would be a better choice as a first book. But this book does provide a lot of very useful and interesting information. Anyone interested in finding out what is going on in the world of Down syndrome will want to get a copy.	2002-11-22
US	53021951	R1J1I0D7SHK3KS	0743222172	78011641	The Sea Shall Embrace Them: The Tragic Story of the Steamship Arctic	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Engrossing tale	I found this book to be a well written account of a tragic maritime accident. Captain Luce, the captain of the SS Arctic, comes alive on the pages. His love for his disabled son comes across strongly and makes Luce human across the distance of 150 years. The book introduces us to a time when the American shipping industry (taking advantage of the British being occupied with the Crimean War) led the world in transatlantic shipping. The author shows us how the competitive nature of the time to always be the fastest led to the disaster. When the tragedy strikes and the ship is damaged, the author brings the disaster to life as we see the crew abandoning women and children (not a single woman or child survived the sinking) as they steal the few lifeboats the ship carried. It is in discussing the events after the sinking where the book fails in my opinion. Nothing was done to punish the crew and the author doesn't really explain why the maritime courts never sought out the crew for punishment. Overall, however, the book is well written and informative.	2002-10-14
US	53021951	R2NCMESY8U3MS	0321118871	36900472	Java(TM) Class Libraries Poster, The (7th Edition)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	It will look nice in your cubicle	These posters (this one and the J2EE one) contain a list of each Java package contained within either the J2SE or the J2EE. The J2SE poster contain 120 packages (more than 2600 classes) from the Standard Edition. The poster shows each package and the classes and interfaces making up the package along with their hierarchical relationship to each other and to other classes in other packages. Classes from other packages are coded to show their &quot;home&quot; package. Abstract and final classes are indicated. Posters containing a list of all the classes in the J2SE or the J2EE may be useful at times and may save hunting down a class in the API to determine if, for example, JarOutputStream inherits from DeflaterOutputStream or not. But that isn't the real reason you want these posters, and you know you want them! You want these posters on your wall because they look so cool. Just think how jealous your co-workers will be when they see them hanging in your office or cubicle. Think how impressed your boss will be when she realizes how much there is to know about Java. And when you're stuck on a problem and leaning back looking for inspiration you can stare at these posters and no one will think you're daydreaming.	2002-10-09
US	53021951	R1F6L3E4TAJPXL	0735612897	896890881	Microsoft Visual C# .Net Step by Step (Step by Step (Microsoft))	Books	3	13	14	N	N	Good intro for the novice	This book is geared for the person who is either a novice programmer or is new to object oriented programming. Anyone who is migrating from another language such as C++ or Java would be better served by choosing the Microsoft Press Core Reference book. This book takes a leisurely pace through C# and Visual Studio. Each chapter introduces a concept and then takes you through a step-by-step demonstration in Visual Studio of a program using that concept. Beyond the basics of C#, the book also covers such topics and ASP.NET, ADO.NET, and web services. It includes a brief tutorial on XML as well. The book does not cover each topic in great depth and some topics are left out (I/O, for example) but for someone with little or no experience the pace and the material covered is about perfect. Overall the book is well done. The book makes it easy for the novice to learn C#. The lessons are well designed to help the reader understand the material that was just covered. The authors' pace is perfect for a self-study course and should allow you to learn the material without much struggle. If you have experience then you will probably want to look elsewhere, perhaps to the Core Reference or the O'Reilly book.  You should note that this book is very much a &quot;hands on&quot; book so you will need a copy of Visual Studio or Visual C#.NET to make it worthwhile.	2002-10-01
US	53021951	R2B5TI7DIH1EXR	0596003765	237023849	Learning C#	Books	4	42	50	N	N	Very Basic Introduction	Jesse Liberty has written an excellent introduction to C# entitled, \\"Programming C#\\". That book required some background in an object oriented language such as Java or C++ to get the most out of it. This book is geared for the less experienced developer. \\"Learning C#\\" covers basically the first half of \\"Programming C#\\" in about 50% more pages. A person without a background in OO will find this book much easier to follow. The book covers the language a little slower, gives more hand holding, and even gives an introduction to Visual Studio. Of course, none of the advanced topics in \\"Programming C#\\" (ASP.NET, ADO.NET, Web Services, etc.) are found in this book. The author has a nice style of writing that makes the topics easy to follow. His examples are clear and there are plenty of them. All the basic C# topics are covered including control structures, enums, structs, delegates, operator overloading, polymorphism, interfaces, and collections. The topics covered demonstrate the main features of OO languages without being overwhelming. However, the book is not a complete introduction to C#. Some topics are left out (I/O for example). But overall, the book is a good introduction for the novice object-oriented programmer. If you already have some OO experience then you will probably want to get \\"Programming C#\\". If object oriented programming (or just programming in general) is new to you then this would be a good place to start.	2002-09-29
US	53021951	R1MREP7M6C9W2T	0130341517	858790755	Java How to Program (4th Edition)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Impressive	Deitel &amp; Deitel books are impressive. They are impressive in size and scope (not to mention weight). How can one describe a book that starts with &quot;What is a computer?&quot; and ends with a discussion of the Java Media Framework? The book is as complete as you would want in an introduction to Java. It is more than 1500 pages plus bonus chapters on the included CD. The book covers virtually everything in J2SE, gives a good primer on object oriented programming, and covers design patterns and UML. There's enough information in this book for two semesters of Java.  Perhaps this is the problem with this book. All this scope, all this information is just too overwhelming. Trying to use this book to self-teach Java would probably be too much. This is the kind of book that needs a steady guiding hand to point out the important information. The book even starts out hard, throwing the reader right into Swing which is used throughout the book. But this book is good. Code examples are everywhere and they are very well explained. The publisher even uses multi-color syntax highlighting to make it easier to read the code. Virtually every line of code is explained. It is almost impossible to turn a page and not find either code samples or a diagram. If you are planning on teaching a Java course and you are looking for a textbook this is one book that would make a good choice.	2002-09-29
US	53021951	R12TIJCXLP2DG9	1861004397	798117696	Professional C# Web Services: Building .NET Web Services with ASP.NET and .NET Remoting	Books	3	4	4	N	N	An OK introduction to web services	Building web services is generally a simple task in .NET.  This book covers the two methods available to .NET developers to build web services, ASP.NET (referred to as XML Web Services) and .NET Remoting (a technology similar to RMI, although with more flexibility). There are several books that cover building web services with APS.NET but this book is rare in that it covers both technologies. If you aren't interested in .NET Remoting then you may want to look elsewhere. Overall, this book does a nice job of covering web services in .NET although it could have been better. The book suffers from the common problem of multiple authors, it tends to be repetitive. For example, the SOAP protocol. is explained in detail in chapter 2 , and then again in chapter 4. The chapter on web services security gives a good description of cryptography but doesn't discuss other issues of web service security. Although the book does discuss user authentication (although briefly) it does not discuss the problem of passing user credentials from one web service to another. At least half the book is case studies and examples so the actual content is not deep. The book is a fairly good basic introduction to web services. If you are new to web services and you are looking for a book that covers ASP.NET and .NET Remoting, you could do a lot worse than starting with this book.	2002-09-23
US	53021951	R2NGSHYZM9OY45	0735612900	67706414	Microsoft Visual C#(tm) .Net (Core Reference)	Books	4	34	35	N	N	Well written tutorial	This is a very nice introduction to the C# language using Visual Studio.NET. Although the book is referred to as a &quot;Core Reference&quot; it is not a reference in the typical sense. Microsoft Press also publishes a &quot;Step By Step&quot; book on the same topic which is a basic introduction for the inexperienced programmer. This book is a more advanced tutorial, more suitable for a  programmer with Java or C++ experience. However, it is not a complete introduction to the language. Several major topics are missing including regular expressions, inner classes, and, most surprisingly, I/O. The book does cover a wide range of features in .NET and does a nice job of explaining how to use these features in Visual Studio.NET. The first half of the book is an introduction to C# starting with the basics and going up to threading and debugging. The second half of the book covers topics such as creating windows and web forms, ADO.NET, XML, and web services. The section on windows forms is the most complete while the other topics are covered lightly. Overall, the book is generally well written and well edited. I found no obvious mistakes.  The book is in hardcover and comes with a CD containing all the code and a DVD with a 60 day version of Visual Studio.NET. The book is not as complete as the O'Reilly C# book but because it is more fully integrated with Visual Studio, may be more useful to most developers.	2002-09-18
US	53021951	R2DZNCZ7G0ORNA	0596003099	236783539	Programming C# (2nd Edition)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Almost perfect introduction to C#	&quot;C# Programming&quot; is close to being the perfect introduction to C#. The author has a nice style of writing that makes the book easy to read and understand. Although the author assumes that you have some familiarity with programming, he does not assume that you know C++ or Java and does not rely on you knowing either language. This helps avoid the problem some authors encounter of explaining how something is &quot;just like in C++&quot; and then losing anyone not familiar with C++. The author does show how to use VisualStudio.NET but he does not rely on this tool, allowing programmers without access to it to run the many examples in the book. Like most O'Reilly books, this is a well-focused and well-written product. The book is divided into three sections. The first is a detailed introduction to the language. The coverage of the C# language in this section is where the book excels. With very few exceptions (I would have liked to see a little more on nested classes) I found the coverage of the book and the examples provided to be excellent. The second section is a brief discussion of several topics including ADO.NET, ASP.NET, and Web Services. This section is just an introduction to these topics. The last section covers advanced topics such as reflection, threading, and remoting. I highly recommend this book to anyone interested learning the C# language even if that interest is purely academic.	2002-07-08
US	53021951	R33VZZ3YO2CDJX	1893115399	745702211	A Programmer's Guide to ADO .NET in C#	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The near perfect introduction to ADO.NET	This book is an excellent introduction for the developer new to ADO.NET. The book is geared towards the C# developer using VS.NET so if that doesn't describe you then you will want to look elsewhere. If that does describe you then this is the book you want. The book starts with an introduction to C# which is probably good enough for someone familiar with Java or C++. This is followed by a brief introduction to ADO.NET and how to use VS.NET to build data driven applications. Chapter 5, the longest chapter in the book, is an excellent explanation of using ADO.NET disconnected classes and data providers. The author does an excellent job of explaining these critical topics. The book goes on to explain how XML documents fit into ADO.NET and follows this with a discussion of web applications, web services, and ADO events. The book contains a nice discussion of the ODBC data provider including how to install it into the VS.NET toolkit.  This information is not easily found elsewhere. I especially like the author's style, which makes the book feel like a discussion with an enthusiastic co-worker rather than as a dry treatise. The book contains quite a few step-by-step, screen-by-screen examples of building applications. If you are (or plan to be) a C# developer and are new to ADO.NET you are unlikely to find a better book than this one for making this complex topic easily reachable.	2002-05-29
US	53021951	R24E3DMRN9JNYE	186100558X	321220755	ADO.NET Programmer's Reference	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Excellent as a reference	Wrox lists this book as a &quot;Programmer's Reference&quot;. In a reference I look for detailed information and code samples demonstrating usage all of which should be more extensive than what can be found in the help files or online API. This book succeeds very well as a reference providing a great deal of information that you will want to have nearby while you are coding. The book starts off with a description of ADO.NET which I found to be the weakest part of the book. This section doesn't quite put all the pieces of ADO.NET together in a meaningful way. The remainder of the book is excellent. Each of the key ADO.NET classes (DataSet, DataReader, DataAdapter, etc.) and their constructors, properties, methods and events are discussed in detail with code samples in both VB.NET and C#. Each key class or concept (data relationships, transactions, XML mapping, etc.) is given a chapter in the book. The explanations are much more useful that what you will find in the online help files. Besides covering SQL and OLE, the book also covers the ODBC classes which are not documented in the help files included with VS.NET. In a reference the index is important and here the index is good although some entries seem to be off a page or two. If you are looking for an in-depth introduction to using ADO.NET you will want to look at other books. If you need a detailed reference book then this should be your first stop.	2002-05-24
US	53021951	R3J28L8UNPZDUC	1893115283	276286905	Essential Guide To Managed Extensions For C++	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Required Reading for C++ programmers	\\"Essential Guide to Managed Extensions for C++\\" is required reading for any C++ programmer who wants to learn about writing C++ for .Net.  What this book covers is virtually everything that a C++ programmer will need to write code using Managed Extensions for C++ (MC++). The first section is an excellent tutorial of the various features of MC++. This sections starts with a  brief overview of the .Net framework. It continues with an introduction to MC++ with a very good low-level description of how managed classes differ from native classes.  The remainder of  this section contains the best explanation of managed extensions that you are likely to find.  Topics are discussed in terms that make sense for C++ programmers. For example, delegates are discussed in terms of function pointers which they replace. The code samples are designed to give a clear explanation of the topic being discussed. The second part covers interoperability issues between managed and native code. For performance reasons C++ developers will sometimes need to mix code types so the explanation of how to avoid performance degradation when mixing managed and native code will be very useful. This section also includes descriptions of how to mix COM and .NET components and how to write wrapper classes for native code. For the C++ developer worried that C# is \\"the\\" .NET language, the authors show that MC++ is an important part of the .NET world and provide the information that C++ programmers need to develop for .NET.	2002-04-27
US	53021951	R2A8PNQBUMBR80	0596003021	479469118	.NET Framework Essentials (2nd Edition)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	A quick introduction to .Net	&quot;.Net Framework Essentials&quot; is a good introduction to the .Net framework. It will, however, leave you hungry for much more. The authors have chosen to keep their book short (300 pages) and yet cover most aspects of .Net. The authors starts out with an overview of .Net and the Common Language Runtime (CLR). They then go on to discuss some simple programs written in the main supported .Net languages (VB.NET, Managed C++, and C#). The authors then move on to the meat of .Net. We get chapters on ADO.Net and integration with XML, Web Services, ASP.NET, and Windows Forms. What this means is that each topic is covered very briefly. For example, ASP.NET is covered in 60 pages. O'Reilly publishes a book on this topic that is almost 1,000 pages long! There is also nothing in the way of linking any of the information in the book to VisualStudio.Net which is the tool that most .Net developers will be using. Most of the examples in the book use C# so some knowledge of that language (or Java) will be helpful. As an overall view of and introduction to the .Net framework, this book is useful. Anyone unfamiliar with the different pieces that make up .Net will have a much clearer understanding when they have finished this book. But this will not be the last .Net book you need and it will not be a book that you refer back to very often.	2002-04-20
US	53021951	R3IB5ABSIY7LPO	013093383X	409119499	Application Development Using C# and .NET	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent Tutorial	&quot;Application Development Using C# and .Net&quot; is an excellent introduction to the .Net framework. This book is for the experienced developer with knowledge of an object oriented language such as Java or C++.  The first part of the book gives a quick introduction to the basics of the .Net framework. The next three chapters give a rundown of C#. Three chapters is hardly enough to explain any programming language in any detail but the book provides enough detail to make a Java/C++ programmer feel comfortable with the language. The remainder of the book covers using C# to develop programs in the .Net framework. ASP.NET, windows forms and ADO.NET are all covered with a running case study. Building assemblies is given a good amount of coverage as is security. Web services are also explained with examples showing how to use WSDL to generate client proxy classes. I especially appreciated how all the pieces were demonstrated through the VisualStudio IDE.  This was the first book I read on .Net and after having finished it I felt that I had a good, if basic understanding of the various parts that make up the .Net framework. You should note that the index is almost useless. For example, there is not a single entry for SQL in spite of the book having a chapter on using ADO.NET to access relational databases. As with most introductions, this book does not work as a reference. But as a learning tool, this book excels.	2002-04-20
US	53021951	RZBH4A9C57A6S	1930110359	87073893	Java 3D Programming	Books	4	37	41	N	N	Required Reading for 3D Graphics Developers	The Java 3D API from Sun provides an object oriented abstraction around OpenGL and DirectX functions. Sun provides a fairly good introduction to Java 3D in their documentation. However, it can be difficult to find more advanced information on Java 3D as some of the best information can only be found in newsgroups. This book provides the information that anyone working with Java 3D absolutely needs. The author has covered all the bugs, workarounds, pitfalls, design problems etc. that aren't found in the Sun documentation. Starting with the basics of 3D graphics programming, the book moves quickly on to the heart of the Java 3D API, the Scenegraph. The author does a good job of explaining this key class and how to use it to create 3D scenes. The book then moves on to explain creating geometric shapes, defining light sources, creating textures, attaching behavior to objects, interacting with objects, and much more. Each chapter contains code samples highlighting the topics of that chapter. As a novice to Java 3D, I was overwhelmed for a little while but the code samples and the author's excellent explanations of the code kept me from becoming lost. This is definitely a book that should be read in front of the computer while working on the examples. Any experienced Java developer (even if you have no experience in graphics programming) who is interested in developing 3D games or scientific or architectural 3D applications should get this book.	2002-04-18
US	53021951	R1Y8VUVUMPFMLA	0672321807	80085987	J2EE Unleashed	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good introduction to J2EE architecture	\\"J2EE Unleashed\\" covers the major aspects of the Java 2 Enterprise Edition. The three main pieces (servlets, JSPs, and EJBs) are each well covered with good examples. JNDI, JDBC, JavaMail and JMS are each given a chapter and XML is also covered. The strength of the book, though, is its coverage of designing J2EE architectures. For example, servlets are explained but then the authors go beyond the explanation to show how servlets fit into an overall J2EE architecture. Model 2 controller architecture is covered and Apache Struts is discussed as an example of using servlets as controllers. According to the publisher, \\"The goal of this book is not to teach the J2EE specification but to illustrate the best practices for developing J2EE applications.\\" In fact, it does both. The example application which is used throughout the book is well designed to cover all the pieces of J2EE. I do have two complaints about the book. First, it concentrates too much on the SilverStream Application Server getting down to the level of showing screen shots of deployment wizards. Second, the book could have used some editing to give it a better flow. J2EE architecture is explained before any of the pieces that make up the architecture are discussed. EJB session beans are used to demonstrate how to use JDBC before EJBs are covered. Overall, however, the book is well done and  can stand up against any of the books covering this complex topic.	2002-04-03
US	53021951	R258B909US2K1C	1861005695	971240319	Beginning Java 2 SDK 1.4 Edition	Books	5	91	97	N	N	Best book to learn Java	Ivor Horton has once again produced an exceptional beginner's book for Java. I have reviewed many beginner books on Java in the search for a textbook for an \\"Introduction to Java\\" class that I teach at Hofstra University. Few of these books have met the goal of providing a solid base of knowledge upon which a programmer can build. Ivor Horton's \\"Beginning Java\\" is one of those few. This book is an excellent introduction to Java for anyone who has a basic understanding of programming and is willing to apply some effort to learn the language. Horton proceeds at a rapid pace to cover virtually every important topic in Java outside of the Enterprise Edition. Starting with the basics of the Java language Horton explains the Java syntax in great detail. He then goes on to cover exceptions, streams, utility classes, threads, GUI (with a concentration on Swing), and file processing. In addition, Horton covers all the important new features of the 1.4 release including more than 100 pages on XML. Each chapter builds upon the previous chapter using extensive, well designed and clearly explained examples. Although the book covers a wide range of topics, it does not treat any of them lightly. Many introductory books fall short in the very important topic of object oriented technique. Horton does an excellent job of both explaining OO and then using it in his many examples. Unlike other books that you may read and discard, this is a book that will continue to provide help far into your Java career.	2002-03-30
US	53021951	R1LLTOQ6LCWLDI	0966525035	844306177	Eric's Gift	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Wonderful story of unconditional love	Eric's Gift is the story of a small boy with a loving heart and the family that learns what unconditional love really means. Kimberly Thompson is the mother of Eric, a little boy with Down syndrome, and this book is the journal of her first two years being Eric's mom. Kimberly takes us on a roller coaster ride of emotions as she records the fear, anger, happiness, and love she experiences. Finally, the little boy with a congenital heart defect gives her the greatest gift; he teaches her to love unconditionally. This book is the gift that Kimberly gives us. Through it she shows us that we are not alone and that other parents are experiencing the same emotions.	2002-03-27
US	53021951	RSPZCPA700NNQ	0471105600	528944781	Convergent Architecture: Building Model-Driven J2EE Systems with UML (OMG)	Books	2	21	24	N	N	Disappointing	When I started this book, I was looking forward to an explanation of how to use the Convergent Architecture to create a J2EE application. What I found was a vague, confusing, and repetitive discussion that often reads as if it was in a tragic accident with a thesaurus. The idea behind the Convergent Architecture is not that complicated. We need to create a model driven architecture above UML that can link design and actual code development. Too often in this book the Convergent Architecture is not explained in terms of what it is but rather how it is like designing cathedrals, diesel engines, or jet planes. The author tells us that using the Convergent Architecture can reduce time up to 70% and that these numbers are endorsed by neutral parties but he gives us no information about these neutral parties. And he doesn't tell us what the 70% is actually compared to making these numbers useless for doing any evaluation.  The book promises to be a &quot;step-by-step&quot; guide but instead reads like a corporate white paper designed to sell a product. And there is a product in here that the author is selling. He is the founding director of the company that makes a product that takes up the last two chapters of the book. The only part of the book that is &quot;step-by-step&quot; is the tutorial on how to use the author's product. Overall, I was very disappointed in a book that I looked forward to reading.	2002-03-15
US	53021951	R3HP9QP6LGOLGA	0933149530	640133501	Communication Skills in Children with Down Syndrome: A Guide for Parents (Topics in Down Syndrome)	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	A great resource for parents and teachers	Children with Down Syndrome are often delayed in developing speech but can compensate for this delay by using sign language and other skills in a technique called Total Communication. This guide provides a wealth of information about speech and language development in children with Down syndrome. Parents learn what to expect as communication skills progress from infancy through early adolescence, how Down syndrome can affect those skills, and what they can do to maximize their child's potential in this crucial area of development. This book was recommended by our son's speech therapist.	2002-03-15
US	53021951	RJUNYNHSE0QVD	0201729563	357492669	Building Scalable and High-Performance Java Web Applications Using J2EE Technology	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A nice introduction to server side development	This book takes an interesting approach to using J2EE technology. Rather than concentrating on a single aspect (servlets,  JSPs, etc) or spending hundreds of pages to explain all technologies in detail, the author has chosen to lightly cover all the important aspects. In a sense, this book is an \\"executive summary\\" of J2EE. The readers who would probably get the most from this book are architects who need to understand J2EE but don't need to write much code and developers who are unfamiliar with J2EE and need an introduction to the technologies. This is especially helpful to developers who have completed the Java Programmer Certification but are unfamiliar with server-side development. There are two things that make this book unique and especially valuable to those new to server side development. First, the book covers the complete end-to-end solution. The author spends several chapters explaining the architecture of web applications. All the basics of server side development are discussed (JSP, servlets, EJBs,  JMS, JDBC) but the author also covers other important issues such as the http protocol, web services, database design, and SQL. Second, the author explains which issues are likely to have an impact on the scalability and performance of your web applications. The entire book is under 400 pages and is very readable. Code samples are interspersed throughout the book to help explain the topics. If you are new to J2EE and are looking for a well written introduction then this book is very good choice.	2002-03-15
US	53021951	RNQZT597TLJQ4	1557664528	335136048	A Parent's Guide to Down Syndrome: Toward a Brighter Future, Revised Edition	Books	5	21	21	N	N	A must have for new parents	Dr. Pueschel is well known as an advocate for people with Down syndrome, a leading expert in the field, and a father of a child with Down syndrome. A noted speaker at Down syndrome conferences across the country, Dr. Pueschel has revised his popular book with the latest information. The book covers a range of topics from prenatal diagnosis to stimulating your child's gross motor, fine motor and speech skills to pre-school to adolesence and on to adulthood. It also covers vital information about the most current legislation including IDEA 1997. This is one of the books that should be on every new parent's bookshelf.	2002-03-15
US	53021951	R321VLZ88TNTCJ	0385482434	603082818	Changed by a Child: Companion Notes for Parents of a Child with a Disability	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A book to treasure	Barbara Gill is a writer, attorney, and disability advocate as well as the mother of a child with Down syndrome. In this book she shares short one or two page vignettes that honestly tell what she has experienced. With titles such as \\"Awareness\\", \\"Sorrow\\", \\"Magical Thinking\\", \\"Forgiveness\\", \\"Pain\\", she captures the emotions that parents of children with disabilities share. Each reading stands by itself and can be read over and over again. It is a book that you will always keep nearby and will want to read from for years to come.	2002-03-15
US	53021951	RJ6IELJ5SZ0GV	0192626620	531900940	Down Syndrome: the Facts	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Positive and informative	Written by an Australian pediatrician, this book is both positive and informative. The book presents a great deal of material but does it in an clear and accessible style . The author is extremely optimistic about the future of people with Down syndrome and this optimism shows in his writing. The material covered includes early childhood development, school, adolescence, and adulthood. Laws in the US, UK, and Australia are covered.	2002-03-15
US	53021951	R1GQFHEHFZTJDD	0933149549	215174563	Medical & Surgical Care for Children With Down Syndrome: A Guide for Parents (Topics in Down Syndrome)	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Vital information every parent should know	Children with Down Syndrome are at increased risk for many medical problems. As a parent, it is important to understand these risks, be able to recognize potential problems, and also become familiar with many of the medical specialists you will encounter even if your child is healthy. This book discusses all of the common medical problems you may be faced with in a way that can be understood by a parent. Armed with the information in this book, a parent will be able to make vital decisions regarding their child's health and cope more comfortably if medical care is required. Topics discussed include: heart disease, endocrine problems, skin conditions, gastrointestinal problems, and many others.	2002-03-15
US	53021951	R3OUNMCNIHN40T	0933149816	91390355	Gross Motor Skills in Children With Down Syndrome: A Guide for Parents and Professionals (Topics in Down Syndrome)	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	The "bible" of physical therapy	Children with Down syndrome often have low muscle tone (hypotonia) and increased flexibility which can affect overall gross motor development. There are many issues that parents need to be aware of if their child has hypotonia. Even the way you hold your baby can affect his gross motor development. This book shows how to encourage and maximize a child's gross motor development - head control, rolling, sitting, cruising, walking, kicking, jumping - from infancy to age six. Pat Winders has written the \\"bible\\" of physical therapy for children with Down syndrome. It contains useful information for parents, therapists, and teachers.	2002-03-15
US	53021951	RBEEY12FI4QDL	1571290095	205279917	Understanding Down Syndrome: An Introduction for Parents	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	An excellent second book	This book is an excellent introduction to Down syndrome. The author of this book is British so it does not concentrate on US law as much as the book \\"Babies With Down Syndrome\\". This is the book to read after you have had a chance to catch your breath and are ready to learn some of the practical issues of raising a child with DS.	2002-03-15
US	53021951	RFABPTXDBWOHB	1893115968	616133493	J2EE FrontEnd Technologies: A Programmer's Guide to Servlets, JavaServer Pages, and JavaBeans	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Fairly detailed and yet limited	&quot;J2EE FrontEnd Technologies&quot; refers to itself as a &quot;programmer's guide&quot; and that is probably the best description of it. While it also claims to be &quot;chock full of code examples&quot; and contains &quot;what you need to know,&quot; it falls short in both these areas. What you will find is a fairly detailed and yet limited explanation of the three major J2EE technologies, servlets, JSPs, and EJBs. Although you will find extensive information for these three areas, there are many details left out and there is little attempt made to tie the three pieces together. For example, you will not find any examples of linking servlets and JSPs other than by using the Struts framework. You will also find no more than a brief mention of message driven EJBs. There are numerous UML diagrams throughout the book but in many cases they add little beyond what you can get from looking at the APIs. The examples in the book tend to be overly simplistic, in some cases wasting many pages to show an example that could have been summarized in a few lines of code. The best section of the book is the section on EJBs. The author's detailed description of EJB deployment descriptors is better than what you will find in most EJB books. This section also features the most complete examples found in the book. Overall this book does contain value, although it fails as an introduction or tutorial on the technologies that it covers.	2002-02-19
US	53021951	R2X0YVP0BMJVAZ	0201485397	326913746	Java¿ Design Patterns: A Tutorial	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Not bad but not THE Java design pattern book	Any Java developer who has read &quot;Design Patterns&quot; by Gamma, et al, has probably tried to relate the patterns discussed to Java programs. This book provides a linkage between &quot;Design Patterns&quot; and Java. Each of the 23 patterns discussed in &quot;Design Patterns&quot; are covered in this book using an example of a Java Swing program. The book opens with a brief discussion of design patterns in general and a quick review of UML, which is used throughout the book. The book then has a chapter for each of the 23 patterns. The book then finishes with an overview of Swing and a case study demonstrating how design patterns might be used in an actual development project. Although the author says that this book is not meant to be a companion book to &quot;Design Patterns,&quot; I found that is actually the best way to use this book. Reading the description of each pattern in &quot;Design Patterns&quot; followed by reading about the same pattern in this book helped me to understand each pattern in a deeper way than by reading either book by itself. This book is not, however, the Java version of &quot;Design Patterns&quot;. Some of the examples seemed strained to make their point. Also, by limiting himself to Swing, the author missed the opportunity to discuss how to use patterns in server side Java development. In general, however, the book does a good job of explaining design patterns and how to use them.	2002-01-17
US	53021951	R2EDGYKG927ISB	0072126019	29726872	Instant JavaServer Pages (Book/CD-ROM Package)	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Too basic for most developers	JavaServer Pages (JSP) is one of the hot Java technologies. For the experienced Java developer, JSP is not difficult to learn. For the inexperienced Java developer, JSP is not a good place to start. Which leads me to wonder who might be the target audience for &quot;Instant JavaServer Pages&quot;. There are serious holes in what this book covers that will leave most developers looking for additional resources. Some examples:<br />* The author spends less than one page discussing taglibs, most of which is simply taken from the version 1.1 specification.<br />* Although using JSP with XML is prominently featured on the cover of the book, the author spends more pages discussing how to install and configure PostgreSQL to run the examples than he does on XML.<br />* On page 4, the author tells us that JSP can be used to generate WML but no examples of this are to be found in the book.<br />If this book was 200 pages long I might understand this missing material, but the author spends 500 pages explaining no more than the basics of using JSP. That being said, the book is not all bad. The author repeatedly demonstrates the proper use of JSP for creating a user interface. His many examples stress that business logic should be placed in Java Beans and those beans invoked by a JSP. The fact is, however, that although the author does well with the material covered, there is too much material left out for me to recommend this book.	2002-01-17
US	53021951	R1WYKGLXA3QXVS	0672317958	139394914	Building Java Enterprise Systems with J2EE	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The one-stop everything reference	In a perfect world, on the day you started working with J2EE you would be handed a book that contained everything you needed to know about the subject. This is very close to being that book. This book is for experienced Java developers who are working with Java enterprise technologies. That does not mean servlets and JSPs, although those topics are covered. This book covers much more than just the basics of J2EE. Naming services, directory services, messaging services, transaction services, DCOM, RMI, CORBA, XML are all covered in some depth. You might think that a book covering so much would need to cover each topic only briefly. In this case, you would be wrong. CORBA has more that 150 pages, JDBC has 120 pages, RMI has 100 pages, XML has 60 pages and so on. Other topics which are often skimmed over in other books (security, cryptography, network communications) are given good coverage here. A case study is covered throughout the book showing how each technology could be used in a single application. The end result is a book that is huge with over 1400 pages. However, the book does have some weaknesses. It is light on the most popular topics of servlets and JSPs. It is also light on helping the developer to determine when to use one technology instead of another. If you are looking for a comprehensive guide to J2EE beyond servlets and JSPs, then this book may be the resource you need.	2002-01-17
US	53021951	RMP73DY7JEWMN	0471386804	798423311	Enterprise Java with UML	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent overview of project lifecycle	Trying to develop a Java application without first developing a model can lead to a poorly designed application that fails to fulfill the needs of users, lacks reusability, and is difficult to maintain. The Unified Modeling Language (UML) was developed as an open standard notation to assist developers in modeling OO applications. As enterprise developers we are finding that we are expected to be able to design applications using UML, explain UML diagrams to our users, or be able to develop applications from UML diagrams. UML can be difficult and confusing to use and many of the books available fail to clearly explain the proper use of this development tool. &quot;Enterprise Java with UML&quot;, by CT Arrington is an excellent introduction into the complexities of UML. Arrington takes us through the entire lifecycle of a sample EJB application (a timecard system) from requirements gathering to implementation. In alternating chapters he explains the use of UML (use cases, sequence diagrams, class diagrams, etc.) for that step in the development cycle and then uses what he just explained to develop the timecard system. Along the way we make technology decisions, develop our design, and ultimately convert our design into actual code. By the time we are done UML has become a new tool in our toolbox. Arrington has done a very good job explaining UML although some familiarity with UML notation (or at least a handy manual) would be helpful. This is a must have book for any Java developer wishing to learn UML.	2002-01-17
US	53021951	R1D8JJVHZWWZLY	1884777716	903210167	Server-Based Java Programming	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Interesting but of little real world use	Would you believe that there is a Java Server book that has almost nothing to do with Servlets, JSPs, and Enterprise JavaBeans? If you are an advanced Java programmer and have felt a need to write your own application server then this may be the book for you. The author starts off with a well written discussion of class loaders and then goes on to show how to design your own application server using your own class loader. For most developers this may be interesting but of little real value. The thread chapters will provide little new information for anyone who has studied for the SCJP. The next few chapters discuss RMI, sockets, persistence, serialization and other issues that are required for the application server that the author is developing throughout the book. Servlets are briefly discussed but mostly on how they can be used to replace sockets and RMI within the application server framework. This is followed by a discussion of modeling business objects that seems somewhat out of place. The middleware section is very interesting and covers a wide array of topics from JMS to CORBA. The JNI section will probably not be used by many Java developers. Although the book is interesting I am left with the feeling that the author has missed the point. Why would a team of developers spend tens of thousands of dollars developing a service framework when inexpensive and robust application servers are readily available on the market?	2002-01-17
US	53021951	R7S3UK425QQG	1861006055	741114285	Early Adopter J2SE 1.4	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Nice preview of the upcoming release	This book, as part of the Wrox \\"Early Adopter\\" series, explains some of the new features of J2SE 1.4. This new version of Java has many improvements over prior versions and also contains quite a bit of added functionality.<br />The book is very well done and gives excellent examples of some of this new functionality. However some new features have been left out including print service and some AWT and Swing enhancements. The information included, however, covers some of the more complex features of this release.<br />The book starts with excellent coverage of the new I/O features and the Java Network Launch Protocol (JNLP). The chapter on XML, however, seems unnecessary. Although this version of Java is the first to include XML support, the JAXP, SAX, and DOM information is not new and is readily available from many published sources. The author's coverage of enhancements to the java.util package (especially regular expressions) is very good. The chapter on language enhancements is a bit confusing because the author starts the chapter with items that are not included in this release. This information would have been better placed in a separate appendix. The book ends with a section on possible enhancements for the next release of Java. The section on JAXB will be good news for many developers since it is available as an early access release. The book does not contain an index.<br />Anyone interested in the new features of Java will find this book very useful.	2002-01-17
US	53021951	R9Z8950Z69ZPY	1861004842	535448156	Professional Oracle 8i Application Programming with Java, PL/SQL and XML	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A tour of Oracle technologies	To produce this book, Wrox took twenty expert Oracle developers and had each of them write about their area of expertise. The result is that whether you are a manager, a developer, or a DBA, if you are working with Oracle 8i this book should be on your desk. This book covers virtually every topic that you need to understand about the Oracle 8i development platform. It does not cover each topic completely but it provides a thorough and in most cases sufficient introduction on each topic. For a particular topic of interest you may need an additional book but to get all the information found in this book you would need ten volumes at least. The book opens with an introduction to Oracle 8i and some of its components including Net8 (Oracle's network solution) and Designer 6i (Oracle's development environment). The next section covers PL/SQL and PSP (this is similar to JSP). This is followed by an extensive section covering Java. This section covers JDBC, SQLJ, EJB, and interMedia (Oracle's powerful search tool). The last section covers XML and includes information on DOM and SAX parsers, SOAP, XSL, XSQL, and more. Extensive case studies are scattered throughout the book. Examples show how to use Oracle tools such as BC4J to develop enterprise applications. The book even includes primers on Java and XML. As a tour of all the features of Oracle 8i, this book is without competition.	2002-01-17
US	53021951	R2DH74OHTWDAYX	0672314231	582512543	Pure JFC Swing	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Could have been good - but it is cheap	Although \\"Pure JFC Swing\\" is 800 pages, more than half the book is a reference to the Swing API. As a reference it is mostly useless. The pages are not labeled and the classes are listed by package so it is almost impossible to find a class without using the index. Each class contains only the signature of each method with no explanation as to how the method might be used which limits its usefulness. The Sun online API is a much better reference. The first half of the book is an introduction to Swing and this is what makes the book worth its very reasonable price. The book starts off with a nice introduction to Swing and the MVC architecture. The author then discusses some of the basic Swing classes. This section of the book features a good discussion of panes but like most of this section it leaves you wanting more. The author has an excellent writing style and gives good, clear examples for each of the classes but each topic ends too soon. Also, too many topics are not included in this book. This book could have been an excellent book. If the publisher had abandoned the idea of supplying a reference and had let Dr. Pantham have the entire 800 pages, this would have been a much better book. If you plan on doing a little work with Swing and you're looking for a light introduction, this book may serve that purpose.	2002-01-17
US	53021951	R2RL8NNIF2SHFB	0596001975	660372375	Java & XML, 2nd Edition: Solutions to Real-World Problems	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Updated version of an excellent book	The first edition of this book was considered one of the best on the subject of Java and XML. This new edition has expanded to include the developments in Java and XML over the last year. The author gives a little less handholding on the basics of XML reducing a three chapter introduction in the first edition to a one chapter summary. SAX, DOM, and JDOM all are covered in detail with each topic getting an introduction and an advanced chapter. JAXP 1.1 is covered in sufficient detail. After the introduction to the basic Java/XML APIs, the author moves on to some other interesting topics.<br />The chapters on web publishing frameworks and XML-RPC haven't changed much since the first edition. New chapters on SOAP, Web Services, and content syndication are welcome additions. The book ends with a look at data binding and JAXB.<br />The examples in the book are extremely clear and concise, explaining each topic well without being overly simplistic. As with the first edition, the author assumes that you are familiar with Java but unlike the first edition he assumes you have a basic understanding of XML.<br />If you are a Java developer and you are going to be working with XML then this book is required reading. The coverage of the Java/XML APIs is excellent. As for the other topics, it is a good introduction but for anyone working with SOAP or Web Services, other books will probably be required.	2002-01-17
US	53021951	R3RERB6N7GMB7B	1861002998	552090974	Professional Java 2 Enterprise Edition with BEA WebLogic Server (Programmer to Programmer)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An interesting case study	The words &quot;A Case Study&quot; added to the title of this book would more clearly explain what this book is about. This book doesn't really work as a stand-alone introduction to J2EE development but should be thought of as a companion to your favorite J2EE book. The premise of the book is a case study of an imaginary company (Pizza2Go) which wishes to take its current applications and migrate them to a J2EE internet application. The migration goes through stages as the developers first move to JSPs and servlets followed by the edition of various Enterprise JavaBeans. Following sections include integrating a J2EE application with an ASP application, messaging using JMS, and adapting an application to handle wireless devices. The last section discusses how to thoroughly test your application including stress testing. The case study is the heart of the book and is both the book's strength and its weakness. The book features an enormous amount of code but in some places little discussion of that code. Without some knowledge of servlets, JSPs, and J2EE this book would be difficult to follow. However, if your complaint about other books is that the examples are too simplistic or not realistic then this book may be just what you want. Although the book does discuss topics within BEA WebLogic Server, there is little if anything that can not be adapted to any J2EE server. Overall, I found this book to be a very helpful and interesting case study.	2002-01-17
US	53021951	R7P1IA2367ELI	0201432978	860454252	The Java Class Libraries Poster, Fifth Edition: Covering the Java 2 Platform, Standard Edition, v1.3 (The Java Series)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	It will look nice in your cubicle!	These posters (this one and the J2EE one) contain a list of each Java package contained within either the J2SE or the J2EE. The J2SE poster contain 58 of the 70 packages in the Standard Edition while the J2EE poster contains all the packages within the Enterprise Edition. Between the two posters, almost 80 packages and well over 2,000 classes are displayed. The posters show each package and the classes and interfaces making up the package along with their hierarchical relationship to each other and to other classes in other packages. Classes from other packages are coded to show their &quot;home&quot; package. Abstract and final classes are indicated. Posters containing a list of all the classes in the J2SE or the J2EE are useful at times and may save hunting down a class in the API to determine if, for example, JarOutputStream inherits from DeflaterOutputStream or not. But that isn't the real reason you want these posters, and you know you want them! You want these posters on your wall because they look so cool. Just think how jealous your co-workers will be when they see them hanging in your office or cubicle. Think how impressed your boss will be when she realizes how much there is to know about Java. And when you're stuck on a problem and leaning back looking for inspiration you can stare at these posters and no one will think you're daydreaming.	2002-01-17
US	53021951	R30TF20JAZBOC4	156592455X	871901970	Java Swing (Java (O'Reilly))	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	One of the best Swing books available	For visual programming, Swing is a vast improvement over the AWT. Using Swing you can create virtually any user interface. At the same time, Swing is much more complex and contains far more components than the AWT. This book provides an in-depth introduction into the complexities of Swing. The authors start with a discussion of some of the features of Swing and the Model-View-Controller architecture which helps to make Swing so much more powerful than the AWT. The authors then discuss some of the simpler Swing objects (JLabel, JButton) leading us into a deeper understanding of the Swing architecture and preparing us for the more complex objects that follow. Each Swing class (JLabel, JInternalFrame, JDialog, JTree, and more) is explained in detail with numerous examples for each class. As the topics become more complex, the authors spend more time on the topic and provide more examples. The authors spend 6 chapters explaining the Swing text framework and make this complex topic almost simple to understand. The authors are not content to merely explain how to use the Swing classes but they spend time showing us how to create our own objects derived from the Swing classes. Java Swing is a huge book (more than 1,200 pages), especially by O'Reilly standards, but there are no pages wasted on a &quot;quick reference&quot;. The authors have provided us with a well written, complete, easy to understand, and ultimately indispensable guide to Java Swing.	2002-01-17
US	53021951	R2Z8DOO1NDLCL6	0130648841	444052728	Core J2EE Patterns: Best Practices and Design Strategies	Books	5	18	21	N	N	Required Reading for Anyone working with EJB	Not another line of code for Servlets, JSPs, or EJBs should be written by anyone who hasn't read this book and understood the concepts explained. This book is about best practices in designing and coding J2EE applications. The lessons explained here were developed by the Sun Java Center based on their work in the field. As they developed applications for clients they noticed that the same problems occurred over and over again. This book documents the standard solutions to solve these problems that were built as a catalog of design patterns and best practices.<br />Part 1 is an introduction to design patterns and the J2EE platform. Part 2 is a catalog of bad practices (the authors describe these as, &quot;less than optimal ways to solve problems&quot;), and refactorings (ways to correct these problems). Developers working with poorly designed J2EE applications will find this section especially helpful.<br />In Part 3, fifteen separate design patterns and strategies are explained. Each pattern is described in detail with the motivation for using the pattern and the design goals to be achieved. UML class and sequence diagrams are included along with detailed code examples that serve to further clarify the pattern. These patterns aren't theoretical constructs but rather are practical strategies that can be applied to real world applications. Using the strategies in this book will make you more productive and your code easier to understand and maintain.<br />Anyone designing, architecting, or coding with J2EE will find this book to be extremely useful.	2002-01-16
US	53021951	RWHIL4T71L9I	0072129433	111024303	Instant Enterprise JavaBeans	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good tutorial - not a reference	&quot;Instant Enterprise JavaBeans&quot; does an excellent job of explaining EJB technology, how to develop programs to use the technology, and how to deploy those programs. Using the reference implementation that comes with the Sun J2EE, the author covers key aspects of developing and deploying EJB applications. The author starts with a good explanation of the Java 2 Enterprise Edition including n-tier architecture and then demonstrates a basic &quot;hello world&quot; EJB class. Using this class, the author shows us how to use the Deploy Tool to deploy and run EJB applications. In each chapter, we are taken step-by-step through the entire process required to produce working EJB applications. The author shows us how to develop stateless and stateful session beans and entity beans using bean-managed and container-managed persistence. Several clear examples of each type of bean are discussed. He then uses the different types of beans to create a more complex example that even includes an interface to a web ready cellular phone. In later chapters, he shows us many of the additional features available in EJB servers including creating container-managed transactions, authenticating users, and customizing applications using deployment descriptors. The author finishes up with a brief discussion of performance issues. Even though the book only discusses the J2EE reference implementation, by covering the basic functions found in an EJB server we learn what to look for in other EJB servers. My one complaint is that the index is almost useless, even lacking entries for such basic topics as &quot;transaction&quot; and &quot;database&quot;.	2002-01-16
US	53021951	R6Z1MBLFBCPZX	0596002262	448745463	Enterprise JavaBeans (3rd Edition)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Best info on the EJB 2.0 specification	This is the third edition of \\"Enterprise JavaBeans\\" in three years, which shows how popular this book is and how fast EJB technology is changing. This new edition has been updated for EJB 2.0 and it gives excellent coverage to the many changes in the new specification. Some of the changes covered include message-driven beans, the new CMP model for entity beans, the EJB Query Language, and how to build complex relationships between entity beans.<br />The book is written for the advanced Java developer who wants to learn the complexities of Enterprise JavaBeans. This is not a simple tutorial for the beginner. The book starts with a brief introduction to EJB and then spends the next couple of chapters covering the complexities of the EJB architecture. After a brief review of the basics of EJB, the author spends the next three chapters covering the complexities of EJB 2.0 container managed persistence. Bean-Managed persistence and the entity-container contract are then covered followed by a chapter on session beans. The new message-driven beans are given a chapter. The book ends up with a chapter on design considerations for J2EE applications.<br />The author does an excellent job of including diagrams at just the right places to help clarify difficult topics. Anyone who will be working with EJB 2.0 should own this book. Note: Companion workbooks are available from the O'Reilly website. These include instructions and versions of the sample programs for WebLogic and WebSphere.	2002-01-16
US	53021951	R1OSSJI7CFHPIP	0130307041	441099291	Advanced JavaServer Pages	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Beyond the Basics!	The basics of JSP are easy to learn for anyone familiar with HTML and Java but it is difficult to learn the many advanced features. This book covers the complexities of JSP very well and helps to make them simple and easy to understand.<br />The book starts with coverage of JSP custom tags, one of the most important features of JSP. HTML forms and JSP templates are covered next. The section on templates is extremely useful for those who wish to use pluggable components to build web sites. The best part of the book for me were the middle chapters which cover designing a Model 2 framework using servlets and JSP. The framework is generic and can be applied to any web site development effort. He then demonstrates how event handling can be used within the framework to provide internationalization, authentication, and form resubmission trapping. (Have your users ever created additional profiles by using the back button?) The next chapter demonstrates using custom tags to access databases. The author then shows different ways to process XML with JSP. The final chapter is a case study demonstrating all the techniques used throughout the book.<br />Code samples are found throughout the book and I had no trouble getting any of them to run in Tomcat. The tag libraries are provided as open source by the author and will be helpful for most developers. The book is very well written and will be useful for anyone interested in advancing their knowledge of JSP.	2002-01-16
US	53021951	R1E6FW5AB855XT	0735710899	950128435	XML, XSLT, Java, and JSP: A Case Study in Developing a Web Application	Books	1	14	14	N	N	A poor attempt at a case study	There are some books that are published that you wonder why the publisher went through the exercise. New Riders should have rejected this manuscript. It claims to be a case study of XML, XSLT, and JSP but it isn't. It is a confused and confusing discussion of the author playing around with technology.<br />The author wanted to try out some ideas so he decided to write a chat program. But there is no real design effort (you won't find a single UML diagram anywhere) so it is difficult to understand precisely what the application is supposed to look like. Without any real design, the application ends up with one servlet of over 50 pages and another of over 40 pages in length. (The book is inflated with 300 pages of source listings that are unreadable.) As a case study in how to do bad design and write awful code, the book can serve as a warning perhaps. As far as actually trying to explain any of this technology, the author admits that isn't the purpose of the book. In a case study you like to hear of problems encountered or the different solutions attempted but you won't. No mention is made of security or performance. The code itself is useless and can't be used in other applications because it is so poorly designed. The author admits that huge chunks of code need to be refactored.<br />Overall this book fails to provide any real value.	2001-12-18
US	53021951	RWP59LV2DU0RW	0596000154	94815440	Java Performance Tuning	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Excellent coverage of a complex topic	You have been working on that Java application for two weeks and it's finally ready for testing. Your window for having the web site down is ten minutes but you aren't concerned. Three hours later with the program still running, you are more than concerned. Before you panic, pick up a copy of &quot;Java Performance Tuning&quot;. This book is geared for serious developers who need to dramatically improve performance in their applications and are willing to dig deep into the code. For example, writing your own customized Reader and byte-to-char converter can be ten times faster than using the BufferedReader class. Shirazi starts off by showing how to measure performance and identify bottlenecks, including a way to override the Object class to measure object creation. Subsequent chapters discuss key performance issues and possible solutions. Topics covered include replacing Strings with char arrays, eliminating casting and minimizing object creation, removing method calls from inside of loops, writing your own sort routines instead of using Arrays.sort(), identifying the correct Collection object, using threading to improve performance, and optimizing distributed systems to decrease network communication. As Shirazi explains, some of the methods covered may violate encapsulation or other OO techniques so they should only be used when performance has been identified as a critical problem. Besides being well written, the book is fun. I found myself trying to figure out along with the author how to improve the performance of the various examples demonstrated in the book.	2001-12-18
US	53021951	R3AY8PBNS3WV2B	1861003668	884111410	Beginning Java 2 - Jdk 1.3 Edition (Programmer to Programmer)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	One of the best introductions to Java	I have reviewed many beginner books on Java in the search for a textbook for an &quot;Introduction to Java&quot; class that I teach at Hofstra University. Few of these books have met the goal of providing a solid base of knowledge upon which a programmer can build. Ivor Horton's &quot;Beginning Java&quot; is one of those few. This book is an excellent introduction to Java for anyone who has a basic understanding of programming and is willing to apply some effort to learn the language. Horton proceeds at a rapid pace to cover virtually every important topic in Java outside of the Enterprise Edition. Starting with the basics of the Java language Horton explains the Java syntax in great detail. He then goes on to cover exceptions, streams, utility classes, threads, GUI (with a concentration on Swing), file processing, and database access using JDBC. Each chapter builds upon the previous chapter using extensive, well designed and clearly explained examples. Although the book covers a wide range of topics, it does not treat any of them lightly. Many introductory books fall short in the very important topic of object oriented technique. Horton does an excellent job of both explaining OO and then using it in his many examples. Unlike other books that you may read and discard, this is a book that will continue to provide help far into your Java career. The latest edition of this book includes revisions for JDK 1.3.	2001-12-18
US	53021951	R1KAP2JREZ8TK	189311550X	153788195	Wireless Java : Developing with Java 2, Micro Edition	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent intro to a new technology	The latest revolution in Java (the micro revolution) has begun within the release of J2ME. However, the revolution has just started and most of the specification is still being defined within the Java Community Process. The one part of J2ME that is available to developers is the Mobile Information Device Profile (MIDP), the specification for devices such as pagers, mobile phones, and small PDAs. This is the focus of this excellent book by Jonathan Knudsen. After a brief history of J2ME, the author introduces us to MIDlets, which are the applets of Mobile Information Devices. Comparing J2ME with J2SE, the author shows us how to leverage our Java skills to make coding for MIDP devices a breeze. Each step of the way, the author uses working code examples to demonstrate the capabilities of MIDlets. Starting with developing forms, the author explains how to interact with the user and code event handlers. He then demonstrates how to interact with servlets over the Internet using HTTP. Maintaining persistent storage, handling cookies, and programming a game interface are all demonstrated. Performance tuning, which is a critical issue on MIDP devices, is discussed. As long as we are going to be on the cutting edge, a chapter on XML is included. Security and cryptography are critical issues on MIDP devices. Knudsen is the author of \\"Java Cryptography\\" and as expected he does an excellent job with these topics. All of this information is well covered in a concise 175 pages. (...)	2001-12-05
US	53021951	R2L42FEEBOLHS6	1893115100	726724049	Taming Java Threads	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Interesting coverage of a complex topic	This book is for the experienced Java developer who has a solid understanding of the basics of threads. If you have been working with threads and are looking for a book to help you avoid thread problems then this book may be exactly what you need. The author does an excellent job of explaining why threads are not easy to use correctly and then provides an extensive library of classes that can be used to overcome thread problems. These classes are the meat of the book. Each class is designed to solve a specific problem that using threads by themselves can create. In general the classes are explained well although there were several blocks of code that I thought deserved a deeper discussion.<br />The topics covered are extensive: exclusion semaphores, counting semaphores, locks with timeouts, and read/write locks. The semaphore classes provided can solve a host of problems and are worth the price of the book by themselves. For Swing the author discusses timers, alarms, thread safety, observers, and multicasters. The discussion of Swing and threads is critical for Swing developers to understand but is often skipped over in books on Swing. However, I have one complaint with this book. The main reason for buying this book is the code but the author insists on either a mention in your about box or you must pay a license fee to use the code. For some corporate IT departments this could be an issue. (...)	2001-12-05
US	53021951	R2WGN0D2DRNYKJ	1565924029	66377460	Java Cryptography (Java Series)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	One of the best books on the subject	Are you concerned about someone outside your company intercepting a password between your applet and your server? Are you worried about someone inside your company using a packet sniffer to capture the credit card numbers of your customers? No? Well, perhaps you should be! As a first step towards closing your security holes you should pick up a copy of &quot;Java Cryptography&quot;. This book is written for the experienced Java developer with no cryptography background who needs to build cryptography into their application. The book starts off with a brief description of secure systems and demonstrates a &quot;Hello zoT1WY1NJA0=!&quot; program. It then gives a fairly detailed description of cryptographic concepts and the Java Cryptography Architecture (JCA). Subsequent chapters discuss how to use the Java Cryptography Extension (JCE). Chapter 5 covers generating and managing symmetric and asymmetric keys with an explanation of the difference. Chapter 6 discusses authenticating users and messages. Signatures and certificates are covered. Chapter 7 covers encryption techniques using different types of ciphers. Chapter 8 covers signing applets. The last chapters include sample encrypted chat and e-mail programs. The end result is a book that provides excellent coverage of cryptography in Java. The only defect in the book is that it is three years old (Java 2 was in beta). Fortunately, the book was written recently enough to include the new utilities used in Java 2. Even though a new edition is desirable, &quot;Java Cryptography&quot; still stands alone as the best book available on this topic.	2001-12-05
US	53021951	RITLZHC2TJRV	0596000685	969800830	Java Message Service (O'Reilly Java Series)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Excellent introduction to JMS	In the past, programmers using Message-Oriented Middleware (MOM) were forced to learn the protocol specific to a middleware product. With the development of the Java Message Service (JMS), developers only need to learn one simple API set for any MOM system. This book is written for the experienced Java developer who wishes to quickly learn how to use the JMS API. It clearly explains and demonstrates using the JMS API with easy to follow examples. The authors start with a description of the basis of MOM systems and describe the two types of messaging systems (point-to-point and publish-and-subscribe) that are supported by JMS. They also explain why an asynchronous messaging system may have an advantage over remote procedure calls in some applications. In the next few chapters, the authors give details on how to use the JMS API to develop a simple B2B application using the two messaging systems. The authors then discuss some advanced JMS topics including guaranteed messaging, transactions, and message failures. They then cover deployment considerations (including performance, scalability, and security), and the new EJB type, the message-driven bean. The final chapter is a brief look at some of the JMS products available. Appendixes provide a quick reference to the API and detailed information about messages. At a time when publishers seem to prefer more pages to quality information, it is a pleasure to find a book that manages to provide you with all the information you need on a topic in only 220 pages. (...)	2001-12-05
US	53021951	RLAQSELMUBSI7	0596001436	437881535	Java and XSLT (O'Reilly Java)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Excellent view of an alternative enterprise architecture	The combination of Servlets and XSLT is a natural fit and a possible alternative to Servlets and JSP.<br />This book gives excellent coverage to using XSLT to generate dynamic web pages. The first part of the book is an introduction to XSLT. For those unfamiliar with XSLT, this part of the book will be an excellent introduction. For those using XSLT, an additional tutorial or reference will be required. The next part of the book covers how to use a Java program to transform an XML document into HTML. SAX, DOM, JDOM, and JAXP are all covered. This section includes information on how to configure your environment to correctly process XML documents. Anyone who has run into the mysterious \\"sealing violation\\" will appreciate this help. The next part of the book is a series of case studies starting with a discussion forum. The case studies demonstrate solutions to real world programming issues and help to uncover some of the issues that programmers will face if they choose to use these technologies. Performance issues are discussed with each solution.<br />My one complaint with this book is that the author tends to overstate the advantages of XSLT while understating the advantages of JSP. Overall, the author has done an outstanding job of putting the two technologies (Java and XSLT) together in a way that is easy to understand.<br />Anyone interested in using XSLT in their Java development efforts should start with this book.	2001-12-05
US	53021951	R3HSH5IKWBS3ZQ	0596000197	376980836	Java Internationalization: Creating International Applications (Java Series)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	The "bible" on this topic	There are three ways to handle internationalization of your Java applications. First, ignore it and give up all your non-English speaking customers. Second, write customized versions of your programs for each language you wish to support and live with a maintenance nightmare. Or third, take advantage of the many internationalization features built into Java. Fortunately, the internationalization features of Java are fairly simple to use and this book clearly explains how to apply them to your applications. The authors start with a description of the many writing systems in use through the world and discuss the many problems that these writing systems can cause for developers. The book then covers a wide range of topics:<br />* how to use resource bundles to isolate locale specific data<br />* formatting dates, numbers, and currency<br />* handling searching and sorting issues for non-Latin alphabets (Japanese, Chinese, Hindi, etc.) as well as special cases within the Latin alphabet (an \\"a\\" with an umlaut is sorted with \\"a\\" in German but after \\"z\\" in Swedish)<br />* handling languages such as Arabic and Hebrew that write from right to left<br />* designing graphical interfaces to handle any writing system<br />* building internationalized web sites<br />If you plan on using the internationalization features of Java then you will definitely want to start with this book. The book is written for the intermediate to advanced Java programmer who needs to develop internationalized applications. The authors assume that the reader is unfamiliar with the issues involved with developing internationalized applications. (...)	2001-12-05
US	53021951	R2OB020LV6TZHR	0807501018	240517608	ABC for You and Me	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Wonderful Book Featuring Children with Down Syndrome	This is a wonderful ABC book. Each letter has a full page photograph showing a child with Down syndrome in an activity with an object corresponding to a letter of the alphabet.  The letter &quot;D&quot; for example, has a young boy with Down syndrome and a dog. The pictures are  very colorful and clear. The children are beautiful models. This is a fun  book and I highly recommend it. If only they made a hard board edition for  little children...	2000-02-29
US	53021951	RLG1CSK146Y95	0933149646	955382891	Babies With Down Syndrome: A New Parent's Guide (The Special-Needs Collection)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A great book for new parents of children with Down Syndrome	It is a frightening thing to find out that your new baby has Down Syndrome. This book will help new parents understand what Down Syndrome is and what they can expect from their new baby. This book discusses DS with compassion and understanding and provides a wealth of information for the new parent. This should be the first book you read	1997-05-09
