US	53026413	R33PQ85U54C8WM	0765305224	768895051	Naked Empire (Sword of Truth)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Better than Pillars of Creation but not by much	I am a Goodkind fan and, thus I anxiously awaited anxiously this latest installment in the series -- in part because I hoped it would be better than the last book.  Well, it was, but not by much.  In the previous book I felt as if Goodkind were writing for elementary school-aged readers -- something I didn't appreciate at all.  In this book, I think he's graduated us to high-schoolers that need a refresher course in lessons of philosophy, fairness and cause-and-effect.<br />This book does have its good points: Richard and Kahlan are together and are included in much of the story, and there is some action - that adds interest to the story.  However, when Richard and Kahlan run into a group of people that don't understand what's been going on in the world around them, the lessons begin.  Richard espouses over and over and over again about how things are, how they came to be the way they are, what we can/should do to change them, what happens if you don't, etc. Quite literally, the story was bogged down in his constant dissertations on life.  That got old quick.  And when he wasn't explaining life to these people, he was explaining it to his sister.  <br />Because these new characters were so \\"thick-brained\\" -- as in, hard-to-learn what seems obvious, there was no real depth to them.  They seemed to be just characters thrown in to put a wrinkle in Richard's movement -- if you want to call what was going on \\"movement\\".<br />Kahlan had her own issues as well -- blaming herself over and over again for some of what was happening in the world.  There comes a time when you just need to \\"get over it\\", find a way to fix it and/or move on.  She didn't.<br />The Slide was a new and imposing threat that had promise to create a lot more tension than he did -- not only with Richard but with Jagang (sp?) but that didn't happen either.  Fortunately Zed had a bit part, since I like him, but it was smaller than I would have liked.  <br />The book gets 3 stars instead of 2 because it WAS better than the Pillars of Creation, even if not by much.  And there was some action in it and some interesting parts.  However, I'm hoping that Goodkind decreases the amount of philosophizing these characters do and gets back to the methods he used to start this series off with a bang.  I agree with another reviewer, if he wants to wax philosophic, he should teach a course - not put it in a fiction book for his readers who just want to read another darned good story.	2003-08-29
US	53026413	R21NW7YNK8B6KQ	157270098X	321579009	Frenchman's Creek (Cover to Cover)	Books	3	36	37	N	N	A satisfying read	If you like historical romances and can enjoy one even if it lacks the \\"sensuality\\" found in the historical romance novels typically sold today, you'll likely enjoy this story.   <br />Set in the 17th century, this story is basically about a wealthy, bored housewife and mother (Lady St. Columb) who finds herself falling out of love with her husband and wanting a change from the life she is living, or in her mind merely \\"existing\\".  Although her husband adores her, realizing she needs a break from him and their surroundings, she leaves him \\"for a visit\\" to their Cornwall estate.  With her kids in tow, she expects nothing more than some peace and quiet.  What she finds is a ship moored just off her property, and a mysterious but intriguing man that makes her laugh and feel more alive than she has in a while.<br />When she later learns that he's a pirate, the damage has been done; her attraction to him is too strong to end their friendship and budding relationship.  And to make matters worse, he's equally attracted to her.  <br />What follows is a bittersweet love affair that is hampered by the fact that she's a wife and mother with responsibilities.  As if those weren't issues enough to deal with, she's also surrounded by nosey neighbors and other acquaintenances who are quite content to try and mind her business, and eventually through their actions, threaten her happiness and even her life.  <br />While this story lacked the \\"fire\\" and excitement I was expecting, it was nonetheless a good read.  Don't expect to be plunged into a whirlwind romance with a young, beautiful virgin being chased by the man she happens to captivate in a flurry of action.  Expect instead, to find two mature people who know what they want out of life and who develop a relationship based upon mutual attraction and friendship, that simmers and builds slowly.  There is some sensuality in the book, but it's subdued by today's standards.  <br />In this story, you will find romance, some action, and an atmosphere that contributes to a feeling of \\"being there\\" in 17th century England and experiencing a part of what life would be like for a titled woman, and a pirate.  It's an interesting, bittersweet story that had my emotions on a rollercoaster as the two individuals were forced to make hard decisions about their directions in life.  <br />There wasn't much I didn't like about this book but if I had to pick something, it would be that in a few spots the pace was just a tad slow, and the fact that I happen to like the \\"fiery\\" (okay, real sensuous) historical romances of today.  While a little more fire would have been nice, this book was satisfying nonetheless because the story is well told.  I would recommend it.	2003-02-27
US	53026413	R19CMBUNQLD987	0553713310	826329544	The English Assassin	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Recommended...  (3.5 stars)	Overall, I enjoyed this book and would recommend it if you like suspense, intrigue and a good old spy story.  There were a few moments when the book failed to hold my attention, but not many.  And those moments were mostly because the author gave more information than I wanted/needed to know about the art and its theft.  I wanted to focus more on the characters and the people that the author made come alive in his storytelling.  In that respect, this book is good.  Characterization was great and I really liked Gabriel.  The other characters were well drawn out too so it was easy to feel as if you knew them and thus could understand their motivations even if you disagreed with them. Even the &quot;bad&quot; guy had a decent side to him as well.<br />The suspense was palpable.  I felt the danger along with Gabriel, and his desperation to stay alive and figure out what in the heck was going on.  Because the story takes place in different parts of the world, there was enough variation in the scenes to also add interest.  There was also a sufficient amount of action to appease my taste for &quot;movement&quot; and excitement, and it kept me wondering what would happen next.  The ending, generally, was as I expected, but it did seem to end rather quickly.  But again, I would recommend the book.  <br />(Listened to unabridged audiobook version)	2002-12-31
US	53026413	R7C1TGX9O0F0J	0553581872	694900967	The Widow's Kiss	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Not your typical historical romance	While this story was entertaining, it was not what I was expecting when I picked up what I thought was a typical historical romance.  When the two love interests in this story first meet, they don't particularly care for each other.  Yes, there's a physical attraction, but that's about all.  Hugh was sent by the King to investigate the deaths of Lady Guinevere's four husbands, and Lady Guinevere's suspects he came to her land expecting to find her guilty no matter the truth, and to steal her land from her.  <br />After their meeting, Hugh starts his investigation and the storyline follows the investigation.  As events unfold, Hugh comes to respect Lady Guinevere's mind.  She's not the typical woman of those times - she's strong willed, very smart, and quite capable of taking care of herself.  She finds him appealing but she knows she cannot trust him if she is to protect herself and her children.  <br />Lady Guinevere is quite likeable.  It's easy to respect her intelligence and ability to do what women of those times usually did not do -- protect their financial interests.  Hugh on the other hand, is a difficult character to like.  He's suspicious of everything, which in truth, is understandable since four of her husbands all did die untimely deaths.  But his unyielding personality makes it difficult for Lady Guinevere to get through to him, and makes him a little hard to like.  However, he does have his good points -- he has a weak spot for children which shows in his interaction with Lady Guinevere's children.<br />What follows is a story that provides a picture of the life and times of the 1500's.  It's not a very happy picture.  The book follows the characters' daily lives, but under the pall of the investigation, their lives aren't very gay and carefree.  <br />Despite the attraction between Hugh and Lady Guinevere, this book really doesn't seem to be an historical romance.  It reads more like an historical story that has a bit of mystery and intrigue and romance wrapped up in it.  I expected the typical fireworks and cat and mouse game between lovers found in \\"typical\\" historical romances, but I did not get that here.  The book was nonetheless enjoyable, but definitely different.<br />Yes, there are parts of the story that will pull at your heart strings and have you feeling strongly for one person or another, but don't expect to swoon and be enveloped in a lively romance like those found in a vintage Woodiwiss or Lindsey novel.  It's not that type of romance story.  But if you prefer more history than romance, and you like a little mystery and intrigue thrown in, you'll find this book quite enjoyable.	2002-10-12
US	53026413	R23JYTHERZFOMQ	0312953038	567073858	Bold Angel	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Should be named the Troublesome Angel	This book starts off with the promise of excitement and doesn't let you down. From their first meeting, Raolfe de Gere, a knight for King William, and Caryn of Ivesham, are at odds. He's a dreaded Norman knight plundering the Saxon lands, and Lady Caryn is an unwilling victim. Events thrust them together as Lady Caryn faces one dangerous encounter after another, and seems to always be at odds with Raolfe.<br />The plot is good and believable and there are plenty of subplots that keep your interest and add more excitement to an already good story. The dialog is good and believable, as are the characters' actions. The descriptions are good, and the scenes all fit nicely within the story. The good characters are very easy to like and the bad ones are ... well, sleazy. And, to keep the reader off track, there are a few characters whose loyalties you'll come to question. <br />In sum, this is a very good and enjoyable historical romance. There's always something going on. And just when you think the romance between Caryn and Raolfe is about to blossom into a deep, trusting and long-lasting love, something happens that tears them apart. At times I wanted to shake both of them to make them see the light. Thankfully, there were characters in the book that did the task for me. Bottom line, this is a book I would recommend.	2002-09-30
US	53026413	R2NQ0LDH1UJH2Q	0671043862	705687442	Every Dead Thing (Cs)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	3.5 star rating	This is a book about redemption.  Charlie \\"Bird\\" Parker, is a detective with the New York Police Department.  On a night when he's out drinking, someone breaks into his home and brutally kills his wife and daughter.  His life now in shambles and torn by guilt, he's going nowhere fast when a he decides to take a stab a being a private investigator.  He's hired by Catherine, a wealthy woman that is looking for her stepson's girlfriend who has mysteriously disappeared.   Catherine, who was becoming fond of the young girl, is hoping to find her alive and well.  When Charlie agrees to take the case, his problems really begin.  <br />What follows is a story that delves into a deep, dark mystery with a reach that spans three decades.  Charlie delves in, determined to help others before they suffer the loss he has.  He soon discovers that the trail he's on leads him in circles, with one dead body after another turning up.  The clues he finds also give him hope that he just might discover the identity of the person or persons that killed his family, but the clues also sicken him.  As he immerses himself deeper in mystery, he's also drowning in danger.  <br />This is a very good book.  It's dark because you're dealing with a man tortured by the death of his family, who is suddenly surrounded by even more death as he tries to help someone else.  The action is smooth, quick, and crisp, as is the dialog.  The characters are very believable as is the plot - which has a number of twists and turns that add interest.  And the scenes are described as if you're there.  Charlie's in a place where no man can trust anyone, and the question is, will he get out...alive?  A recommended read - if you're not squeamish.	2002-09-03
US	53026413	R1B4L3L66B5487	0515131520	502406772	Darkling I Listen	Books	3	6	6	N	N	A long soap opera	This is a long book, with average characters that lead above average lives - in the sense that they face dangers the average person wouldn't expect to face.<br />Brandon Carlyle was one of the hottest, sexiest, best looking actors to hit the scene.  Although he had a bad-boy reputation, life was good.  Women threw themselves at him, men loved him, his fans adored him, and he could command top dollar for doing a film.  Then things went wrong.  A woman in his company died and Brandon couldn't remember all of the events leading up to her death, and so he found himself in jail.  When the story starts, Brandon is out of jail after spending three years there, and he's trying to live in relative obscurity with his aunt and uncle.  Things are going okay for him.  His life is very dull in comparison to what it once was, but he needs the time to get himself together.  Besides that, he's still a very wealthy man and doesn't have to work another day in his life if he doesn't want to.  And right now, he doesn't.<br />Alyson James is a tabloid journalist.  She wants to make name for herself and thinks she can do just that by getting an exclusive story on Brandon.  She comes to Ticky Creek, Texas, where Brandon's been \\"hiding\\", and meets him.  Since she's changed her name so as not to have her identity discovered, he doesn't have a clue that she's one of the hated tabloid writers.  <br />Circumstances throw them together and Alyson gets to know Brandon and his family.  She discovers that he's nothing like what she expected.  He's a sensitive, introspective, very caring man that may have spent time in jail for a crime he didn't commit.  Some of the people in Ticky Creek despise him for the crime, but most others prefer just to let him live in peace.  Alyson also discovers that Brandon's being stalked by a deranged fan that has been sending threatening letters to him, something that has Brandon fearing more for his aunt and uncle then himself.<br />As luck would have it, Alyson andBrandon spend enough time together to fall in love.  And that's where the trouble begins.  Brandon's troubled childhood, the deranged fan, the police officer who hates him and others in and outside the town, all serve to spoil what could be a great love affair.  But not only that, Alyson hasn't told Brandon who she really is and why she came to Ticky Creek in the first place.  Having gotten to know him, she knows that information may kill their new relationship.<br />What follows is a series of events that test Brandon's relationship with Alyson and others close to him.  Brandon comes through as an average guy, who just happened to become a hot movie star, and Alyson is the woman of his dreams that has more spunk in her than he would have expected.  <br />The book reads like an overlong soap opera.  It has its good points, but at times it seems as if the author was throwing a little bit of everything into the book to add length.  Overall, I'd say it's an average read with some above average instances of suspense and danger.  It's worth a read if you like long, drawn out stories - which can be a good thing if you don't want a book to end.	2002-08-19
US	53026413	R3TDGM2WLOFYD5	1559277114	970494196	Robert Ludlum's The Paris Option: A Covert-One Novel	Books	1	5	8	N	N	A forgettable book	I just finished this book a little over a week ago, and already it's hard for me to write a review because I've forgotten most of the details with one exception - it was a rather boring book.  Yes, there was a lot of action, and yes, there was a lot going on, but no, none of it was mesmerizing or good enough to pull this book up to a level of being considered good.  The characters were boring and the story was lackluster - it lacked depth, and the scenes all just seemed to rush together.  Every now and then something interesting happened, but not enough to pull this story out of the rut it is in.<br />I listened to the unabridged audiobook.  I listen to a lot of unabridged audiobooks.  Typically, when a book is good, I'm aware of every word being spoken, I hate to stop the tape/cassette to do anything, and when in the car, I don't mind rush hour traffic because I've got something to take my mind off of the sightseers who make you miss making it through a light.  But with this book, I could barely keep my mind on the story.  While listening, I was painfully aware of the rush hour traffic, I made mental lists of what I needed to get from the grocery store, and I solved the world's problems - all when I should have been listening to this book.  When I did come back into focus and start listening again, do you think I stopped the tape and backed it up to hear what I missed?  Heck no!  I was just glad that I had less to listen to so I let it roll. <br />This is definitely not a \\"Ludlum\\" quality book.  I suppose now that the author is no longer with us, books \\"written\\" by him should no longer be published if the quality is along the lines of this one.  If you pass on this one, you won't have missed a thing.	2002-08-19
US	53026413	R3VKUD74C9QMMH	156740359X	38926947	Nightshade	Books	3	1	1	N	N	More mystery than horror	While this book is a mix of mystery and horror, there's more mystery than anything else.  The book starts off giving a glimpse into the hell a woman, Joan, must have endured as she grew up with a mother who despised her, and the sister, Cynthia, that her mother favored, but who is now dead.  Joan has an illegitimate son, Matt, that her mother also despises.  It's clear from the beginning that her mother doesn't like her or Matt.  Fortunately, Joan met and married a man that has accepted Matt as his own, and helps Joan to escape the hell that she and Matt had lived with her mother.  It also doesn't hurt that he's wealthy and his family has been a pillar of the community for years.<br />...<br />The general focus of this story is the dysfunctional relationship Matt's mother has with her mother, and the effect it has on their lives.  After his grandmother moves in, secrets best kept in the family closet begin to spill out.  Before Matt knows it, he has to confront these secrets in a battle to save his life.  <br />The \\"story\\" in this book starts almost immediately, and simmers throughout with threats of the danger to come.  While I liked the book and found it entertaining, it's not the best book I've ever read and it's not one that I would insist anyone read right away.  I was expecting more of a horror story, but found there's more of a mystery here instead.  That isn't bad in and of itself, because the mystery is interesting, and there were some spooky moments.  But just don't expect horror and you'll be okay.<br />The dialog was good, as were the descriptions of the scenes and setting.  Some of the action didn't seem plausible, but it wasn't totally unbelievable either.  I may be being a little hard on this book because I've read other Saul books that I found more enjoyable, but this one isn't bad at all.  It's just not as good.  If you're done with all of those \\"can't wait\\" books on your \\"to-read\\" list, than this book would be a good way to pass the time.	2002-08-19
US	53026413	R3A6DKK1AL5CCN	0930435206	899583062	Lie Down With Lions (Bookcassette(r) Edition)	Books	4	33	36	N	N	Great book, great readers	I purchased this book because the setting -- Afghanistan -- sounded interesting, I like spy stories, and I'd just read Jackdaws by Follett which I'd thoroughly enjoyed.  This book exceeded my expectations.  <br />Three characters are the main focus of the story -- Ellis, a CIA agent, Jane, the woman he loves and wants to marry (although she doesn't know it), and Jean-Pierre, the man who also wants Jane for himself.<br />From the beginning Jane and Ellis's relationship is rocky because she doesn't know he's a spy and some of his actions have her puzzled.  She wants more of a commitment and he doesn't seem willing to cooperate.  On the day he decides to come clean about what he does for a living and how he feels about her, all hell breaks loose.  The next thing Ellis knows, Jane is gone and so is Jean-Pierre.  <br />Ellis later accepts an assignment to Afghanistan and their paths cross again.  The fact that Jane now has a child doesn't change the way he feels.  He's still in love with her, but he expects no love in return.  Aside from that, his mission could get him killed and he doesn't want to bring harm to her or her child.  Besides that, Jean-Pierre, who's always been jealous of him, has no intention on losing Jane to a past rival.  <br />What follows is a roller-coaster ride of action, danger, romance, and suspense. I listened to the unabridged audiobook version of this book and the cast of six readers were excellent.  They changed their tone and pace to fit the scenes that they read.  As a result, the characters seemed to come alive.  Follett does a pretty good job of giving you enough of a description to help you envision the scenery and the dialog was good. To top it off, the action made sense and was interesting.  <br />I don't know if the book accurately portrays the people of Afghanistan, so I didn't accept some of the characters' observations about how they are as a people.  I mainly listened to the book to be entertained and it did that superbly.	2002-08-02
US	53026413	R1C4A8FO7C3AA	1587520044	603069114	A Small Percentage : A Dark Tale of Alien Invasion (Small Percentage, 1)	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Could have been much better	I've listened to hundreds of audio books and I must say, the readers on this made this one of the all time worst.  The male reader was okay.  He attempted to change his voice for different characters and situations, and did a half-way decent job of acting out his lines.  The woman reader almost had me in tears she was so bad.  She sounded like a third-grader that had just learned to read and sound out words.  Forget any acting, she just read the words, and quite poorly I might add.<br />Why did I mention the bad readers first?  Because they detracted from the story.  The story in and of itself wasn't that bad.  In the future, aliens take over the earth in order to get sorely needed resources for their race.  Naturally, the humans aren't too happy, and with good reason.  Some of the aliens are just downright cruel and mean.  Others try to learn from the humans and learn about compassion.  Then to make matters worse, another alien race shows up.  What's a human to do?  The answer is plan and figure out a way to get rid of the aliens.<br />This book focused on the conflict between the humans and the aliens and the humans drive to take back the Earth and get rid of the aliens once and for all.  <br />Like I said, the story wasn't that bad, but it was no page turner either.  I gave it two stars because every now and then something interesting happened that gave me hope the book was getting better.  Then the woman reader would read her lines, and my hopes would be dashed anew.  In my opinion, if you pass up on this one, you shouldn't feel as if you've missed anything.  But, if you decide to be brave and read it, check it out from the library.	2002-07-26
US	53026413	R5H3ZVNOZXJU0	0142800031	583024749	Jackdaws	Books	4	1	1	N	N	I'm no war buff, but this story is good...	I typically steer away from war stories because they simply don't interest me.  In addition, I'm not too familiar with K. Follett's works.  But based upon some of the positive reviews, I decided to try this book.  I'm glad I did.  It was a pretty good and involved story.  <br />First let me say, the first few chapters or so of the book were pretty hard for me to get into.  A few times, I started to just give up, but I persisted and persistence paid off.  If you can make it past the first few chapters -- which are setting up the story so that you understand actions and motivations that will follow -- than you're in for a good read.<br />The plot.  The plot is good.  The setting is war times -- just before D-Day, and the place is France.  A British female spy, Flick, is charged with a mission that must be carried out, despite the costs, in order to cripple the German's war efforts.  Flick puts together a team of women that must help her get the job done.  Unfortunately, the team needs a lot of work before they're capable of doing anything besides fainting or crying at the sight of a gun.  The odds of a successful mission don't look good. Once the team is established, what follows is a story that quickly moves ever closer to their ultimate goal -- fulfilling their mission -- while at the same time, providing you with an interesting glimpse of their lives and in some cases, loves.  Yes, there's some romance, both on the German side and the British side of the story.  While this is not a romance novel, the romance just seems to fit and is quite appropriate since it helps to tell the story of the women's lives and adds depth.  Because of this, the characters come alive in the story and you'll understand the turmoil that Flick feels as she makes some of the hard decisions that she has to make.<br />The authors descriptions of setting helps too.  I was easily able to &quot;slip&quot; into the time frame of the story and see the events as they occurred.  Everything isn't wine and roses.  I mean, this IS war and bad things happen to good people.  Hopefully you're not squeamish because you'll be &quot;there&quot; as those bad things happen.  Fortunately though, good things happen to good people too, and you'll be there as well.  <br />The story is filled with suspense, danger, and a good bit of action.  You'll feel as if you want to run, duck or hide along with the characters.  All of the action isn't running, shooting, etc. kind of action, but it is action that keeps the story moving forward at a pretty nice pace.  And yes, some of it is nail-biting action.  <br />The dialog is good and appropriate.  Nothing said or done sounds phony or contrived just to move the story forward.  It fits. <br />I'm not a historian or a war buff, so while this story is based on a true story, if anything said or done is inaccurate, I wouldn't know, nor would I care.  I wanted to be entertained and the book succeeded in that respect.<br />Bottom line, I would recommend this book even if you, like me, typically do not read war stories.  Yes, the war is the reason and background for the story, but the focus is the characters and their actions, and that adds up to a very good read.	2002-06-29
US	53026413	R222U4VPRNT50M	0736631429	384254706	Swept Away	Books	1	5	6	N	N	Under average at best...	I love historical romances, and for that reason, it's pretty hard for me to really not like one.  But this book is one that I particularly didn't like.  Since I'd spent a small fortune purchasing the unabridged audio version, I really tried to like it, but to no avail.  <br />Generally speaking, the book is lackluster.  There's little to no real excitement in it.  I'll admit there was a scene or two that I thought were pretty decent, but overall, this book just doesn't have &quot;it&quot;.<br />The majority of the characters were lifeless dull people that weren't very likeable.  Most of them seemed to dislike the main female character, Eden, for one reason or another, and so she moved from one bad set of circumstances to another. <br />And to make matters worse, Raven, one of the men and major characters in this book, didn't improve her lot.  Raven is one character that I didn't like at all. He was selfish, cruel, and spiteful.  Even when he was supposedly feeling love towards Eden, he still seemed like a mean person.  I couldn't understand why or how she could return any semblance of feelings outside of scorn.  Since I didn't like Raven, and I questioned Eden's sense of self-respect for caring for him, the book was very hard to enjoy.  It was like watching a cat toy with and torture a mouse for an extended period of time.<br />Historical romances usually include just that, romance.  For the majority of this book, there was little of that.  Yes, two people were thrown together and yes there was some emotional interaction between them, but &quot;love&quot; ... I don't think so.  Tolerance or resignation seemed to be the prevailing emotion.<br />As for the good things, the dialog was decent and the descriptions were okay.  But the poor storyline and unlikeable characters outweighed those positives.  <br />This is my first Phoebe Conn book and I must say, it didn't inspire me to go in search of another.  This is definitely a book that you should check out from the library IF you decide to read it.	2002-04-25
US	53026413	R2259IYNVXWN1X	038079747X	681868285	The Pirate Lord (Lord Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	A slow burn� (3.5 stars)	This was an enjoyable read.  Sara Willis is a strong-willed, determined woman who has no immediate plans to marry, if at all.  Gideon, known as the Pirate Lord, is looking for a wife for him and his men.  During his quest for wives, Gideon stumbles across Sara and a group of convict women bound for the penal colonies of Australia.  Sara's going along on the trip to make sure that the women's rights are protected.  Upon learning of the women, Gideon, thinking they'd be perfect matches for him and his men, decides he's going to make them an offer they can't refuse.<br />From their first meeting, things don't go well between Sara and Gideon.  Sara despises pirates and therefore, Gideon; and Gideon despises titled English people, and therefore Sara.  What follows is a battle of wits between Sara and Gideon.  Sara, ever the activist, feels that she's obligated to protect the women's rights, even if that means possibly facing danger as she defies the Pirate Lord.  Gideon, on the other hand, struggles between his dislike of English nobility and his growing attraction to Sara.  They have a number of skirmishes some of which end in Sara's favor and others in a draw.  Gideon just can't seem to win a battle against her.  <br />The romance between these two characters is nice and believable, but it builds up a little slow.  There were times when I wished things would speed up and get the romance going a little faster than what it was.  Don't get me wrong, there were very good romantic (or shall I say sexy) interludes sprinkled throughout the book, but for me they served more as teasers of what was to come, than of the real thing.  Depending on your perspective that might not be a bad thing.  Despite that, there was always something going on, be it a battle of wits, bickering among the women, or some form of external danger.  This made for a pretty interesting read.  In fact, I thought the premise for the story was pretty good.  The dialog was good, as were the descriptions.  And in the end, you're surprised with a twist that ties up all loose ends perfectly.  In sum, this was a pretty good book.  If you don't mind a slow-burning romance, than you'll likely enjoy this book.	2002-03-04
US	53026413	R32UZ2TGKQQQP7	0843949325	706690115	The Dragon Lord	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Good but rushed...	This was a pretty good book and I rate it 3.5 stars.  However I must admit, the plot was one that I had read before in another book -- a father (and landowner) is killed and a king sends his champion out to wed one of the surviving daughters to make sure that his kingdom holds onto the lands. Nevertheless, I enjoyed the story, which contained some twists and turns that made it differ slightly from the other book, and added interest. Suffice it to say, I enjoyed the plot.  I also enjoyed the characters.  The Dragon Lord was just as reluctant to marry as was the sister he wound up with and neither were shy about letting the other know this.  Naturally, this set up the tension that would follow as the two found themselves forced together in matrimony.  And if that weren't bad enough, one of Dragon's spurned lovers wasn't at all happy with the union and wasn't shy about letting him and his new bride know.  <br />The dialog was also refreshing.  Rose was particularly blunt and asked questions that you would hope she'd ask rather than sit back and wonder what Dragon's thoughts were.  I really appreciated that touch.  And because Rose was forever getting herself into one scrape after another, there was a decent bit of action in the story as well, with the Dragon running to her rescue.  <br />If you like sensual books, this one almost hits the mark.  This is where the book fell short in my ratings.  The romance and the intimate scenes seemed a little rushed, as did parts of the story.  I got the feeling that the author had a lot to say but tried to compress the story in as few words as possible.  While it's okay to skimp in some areas, it's not a good idea to skimp on the romantic build-ups.  While the romance and the romantic scenes were enoyable, they could have been much moreso with just a few more pages added to each scene.  <br />Despite this minor flaw, the events in the book made for a very enjoyable story.  There was always something going on and Rose and Dragon were two very likeable characters.  I very much enjoyed this book and I will definitely read another book by this author.	2002-02-05
US	53026413	R3611Y6S3V6M1B	0312978405	691874366	Love Lessons	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Sizzling!!!!	My eyes nearly bugged out of my head when I ran across the first steamy pages of this book.  Wow!  Talking about hot!  Now for my review...<br />It wasn't too hard for me to accept the plot - that a woman back in those times would seek out instruction on sex from a man, er... excuse me...a gorgeous man, who had all of the answers.  Yes, most women from those times are depicted as prudish and had to abide by a strict decorum, but I don't believe that EVERYONE did.  So, I accepted the plot with glee.  <br />Having accepted the plot, I easily moved on to the characters and the dialogue.  That's where this book excels.  I loved the characters.  As with typical historical romances, yes the main characters were gorgeous and wealthy, and the woman was wide-eyed innocent.  The man, as usual, was worldly wise and a take-charge type of guy.  But they also had their flaws.  She was rather demure and nigh on to being a spinster.  He on the other hand had a dubious view of romance and had some family issues he needed to deal with.  But these flaws helped to both advance the story and add depth to the characters.  <br />The dialogue between the characters was very good as well.  For the most part, the dialogue was interesting, appropriate for the events taking place, and on occasion totally scandalous!  How scandalous you ask...  let's just say that I wouldn't dare read this book in a public place if you're prone to blushing or heat flashes, or if you don't want the person next to you glancing over your shoulder at the sometimes \\"scorching\\" text.  <br />The \\"action\\" in this book -- meaning the various confrontations among characters, was very good too and interesting.  Both the dialogue and the events.  They added a bit more spice and picked the pace up.  Not that I'm complaining about pace.  The pace was very appropriate.<br />I read this book in a couple of days - which for me lately, is pretty fast considering my hectic schedule.  I admit, towards the end of the book I skimmedthrough some of the dialogue and some of the text.  But that was because it was 3:00 am, I was tired and I had to get up for work at 5:30 am, but I could not sleep without getting to the end of this book.  And besides, I only skimmed through a few paragraphs here and there.  Yes, the book is that good.  Today, I have red, itchy eyes and I'm tired, but I'm darned happy that I got to the end of the book and found out what happened, and I'd do it again.  I wouldn't have gotten any sleep otherwise.  Bottom line, if you don't mind some, I mean, alot of erotica in your historical romance, this is the book for you.  Heck, I'm still grinning after this read...	2002-01-24
US	53026413	R3JTRUGC421KSP	1567404073	915756963	The Elusive Flame	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Better than expected...	Make that 3.5 stars.  Although this book isn't as good as some of the vintage Woodiwiss books, it was still better than I expected, and thus, I enjoyed it.  It starts off with interesting events - the death of Cerynise's guardian and unexpected arrival of her guardian's heir, Alistair.  He doesn't particularly care for Cerynise and he makes no secret of that fact.  Before she knows it, she's thrown out on the streets with no money and nowhere to go.  Deciding her only choice is to return home to the states, Cerynise heads for the docks.  Barely making it to the docks, she is rescued by Beau, a man she knew from her childhood.  They enter into a hasty and temporary marriage as a means of keeping Alistair from taking her back as his ward.<br />During the long voyage to Charleston, Cerynise falls hopelessly in love with Beau.  But because the marriage is only temporary, they both try not to give in to temptation and consummate the marriage -- and there's a lot of temptation.  By the time they reach Charleston, both are in turmoil about the direction their relationship should take, and unbeknownst to them, Alistair is hot on their trail bringing with him the threat of death, and the destruction of their shaky relationship.  To make matters worse, Beau is a much sought after and very wealthy bachelor whose family home is in Charleston.  Upon their return, women pose another threat to Cerynise and her shaky marriage as they try to ensnare Beau for themselves. <br />While the Elusive Flame doesn't make the reader pant and sigh with emotion as much as some of Ms. Woodiwiss' earlier romance novels, it nonetheless delivers enough romance to hold your attention.  The story has elements of danger, adventure, suspense, a little mystery, and a lot of jealousy - which adds a nice bit of spice.  The different circumstances the two lovers find themselves in also add a good bit of excitement to the story.  Both Beau and Cerynise are developed well enough that they come to life, and you can feel their feelings changing from merely curiosity and admiration for each other to a deep and lasting love.  <br />While at first it seemed a little weird to have a man reading this book, I quickly got over my surprise since his reading didn't distract me from the story.  Bottom line, this is a book I would recommend.	2002-01-20
US	53026413	R25WLBLJJPUUEA	1587889366	103095266	The Pillars of Creation (Sword of Truth Series)	Books	2	2	2	N	N	I'm disappointed...	My first impression of this book is that it's targeted audience is teenagers or an even younger age group.  The writing was stilted and elementary, which eliminated any chance of a nice smooth pace to the story.  And to make it worse, Goodkind (or whomever really wrote this book) wrote as if the readers needed to be hand-held (or guided) towards understanding the reasons why the characters acted or thought in a particular manner.  For example, some of the dialogue between two characters read more like a teacher/student interaction - full of examples and explanations to make sure the student understood what the \\"teacher\\" was saying.  These long preachy &quot;lessons&quot; seemed unnecessary and dragged on much longer than was warranted.  <br />Plot: The plot was less than riveting too.  I understand and can appreciate the need/desire to introduce new characters into the series.  In fact, I'm all for that since it can greatly add to the storyline, but these characters leave much to be desired.  Quite frankly, they nor their lives were exciting nor seemed to add much to the story - aside from the fact that Richard and Kahlan had someone new to fear - if only for a short while. One was just plain stupid and too blind to &quot;see&quot; the truth -- though I understand she led a sheltered life; and the other was a plodding brute who apparently used cruelty to make up for his low self-esteem. <br />Characters: A few of the characters had potential, but overall, the book lacked so much of the zest and life found in the previous books that they paled in comparison.  I wouldn't mind seeing one or two in future books, but the remainder should stay in the background.<br />Action: Well, all I can say is, there was little of this.  This was more of a story of discovery with a couple of new characters learning about their heritage and going on a journey in search of &quot;something&quot;.  One wanted to rid herself of what she perceived as an ever-present threat, the other wantedto attain glory and a higher status.  There was a drop of action here and there, but for the most part, don't expect much of it.<br />Dialogue: The dialogue suffered from the same problem as the writing; it was stilted and unlike the first books in the series, seemed geared towards a much younger audience.  It made the read a bit more painful than it had to be.<br />What I liked: Sorry, there's little here.  It was nice to see life from another person's perspective, but I don't feel this book added much progression to the storyline.  Nonetheless, I continued to listen to this book in hopes that something would happen that would make me feel that the money spent on the unabridged audio version of this book was worth it.  Unfortunately, aside from making sure that I haven't missed a book in the series, this book didn't add much to my collection - except for a strong hope that the next book is much, much better.  I admit, I was happy when Richard and Kahlan finally showed up -- in the very last pages of the book, but even their brief appearances couldn't help pull this book up to a more acceptable level since they had what amounted to no more than a &quot;bit part&quot; in the series.  Finally, the reader left much to be desired. He read as if he were just as bored with the storyline as I was.  <br />My recommendation: If you've been following the series, you'll likely want to read it to make sure you don't miss anything, but I'd suggest you save yourself some money (and angst) and check it out from the library.	2002-01-03
US	53026413	R1M99HVV5USJIM	0440226295	69460434	McClairen's Isle: The Passionate One	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A great find!	I stumbled across this three-part series while looking for another book, and I'm glad I did.  I listened to the unabridged audiobook version and I enjoyed every minute of it.  This book starts off telling the story of two lovers very passionately in love.  These two lovers are the Merricks - the mother and father of the two brothers and sister that are the focus of this series.  Unfortunately, the father changes and through his treachery and evilness, their lives are ripped apart.  Through the father's actions, his sons are later imprisoned.  He bails out his eldest son, Ashton, who then spends his days trying to raise enough money to purchase his brother's freedom - since his father has failed to do so.<br />In an effort to raise money, Ashton goes on a mission to find and escort his father's young ward to him.  The circumstances he finds her in and the young woman herself stir Ashton's emotions and he finds himself strongly attracted to her.  The more he learns about her, the more Ashton is torn between doing his father's bidding to get the money he needs to free his brother, or keeping the young ward for himself.  <BR> <BR>The young ward has plans of her own.  Having built a life for herself, she's none too happy about being escorted to a guardian that she doesn't know and being forced to give up the life she has built for herself.  She's both repelled and strongly drawn towards Ashton whom she doesn't understand.  To make matters worse, she doesn't understand the dark world of the Merricks nor their strange behavior towards one another.  She becomes even moreso troubled when she meets Ashton's father and begins to glimpse the evil side of him.         <br />This is a very good and interesting story.  It's the type of book that you should curl up with on a comfortable sofa with a beverage of your choice.  In no time, you'll find yourself sucked into the world of the Merricks.  The plot works well, the scenes are aptly described, and the dialog fits in nicely.  For the most part, the characters say and do exactly what you would expect them to - in other words, they do what makes sense.  You'll feel the Merrick siblings' pain as their father uses them as no more than puppets on a chain, and you'll feel their joy at their stolen moments of happiness - which thankfully they have.  And, since this book focuses moreso on one of the siblings, Ashton, you'll want to purchase the other two books in the series to see what happens to the other two.  I know I did.  This is a book I would recommend and an author I'm glad to have found.	2001-11-12
US	53026413	R3FMAEIM0TEGVT	1587884569	550790495	Icarus	Books	3	2	6	N	N	Overlong soap opera	This book started off pretty good and had me glued to my chair waiting to see what would happen next.  Then, it got bogged down in storytelling -- which should be a good thing, but in this case, it wasn't.  The background story and build up of the mystery that infuses this book seemed to go on forever.  You're taken through the typical life of a married couple who are trying to start a family and build a comfortable life for themselves at the same time.  Not bad fare, but a little slow.<br />Then years later, their happy life is shattered by death.  Jack struggles to regain his health and his outlook on life but again, death strikes.  This time, Jack decides to find out why.  And hence, the mystery kicks in as Jack searches for answers among a large cast of characters.  To me it seemed as if the number of characters was just a way of justifying a longer book then seemed necessary.  In some ways, their stories added to the book and in others, it was just filler material.<br />I had the ending figured out a little over halfway through the book, but I must admit that the author had me second-guessing myself for a while there.  The mystery is decent -- because there are so many possibilities, and some of the characters are interesting, but overall, this book lacked excitement.  Bottom line: while I wouldn't steer anyone away from this book, I also wouldn't recommend it.  You're on your own.	2001-10-21
US	53026413	RQGLTWZ23SN9V	0754075338	823106538	The Day of the Triffids	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Old sci-fi at its best...	I love old sci-fi movies -- especially those made in the late 50s and 60s.  This book was reminiscent of those old movies.  It had the same character build-up, the sense of despair, and horror at what was happening, which was countered with the determination of the individuals to survive no matter what the odds.  <br />The book started off well, and continued on in the same vein, giving enough information along the way to paint the picture of what life might be like if nature turned on us and another form of life took over.  <br />The story is told through the eyes of Bill Masen, one of the lucky ones who survived the first events and retained his eye sight.  Through his eyes we see mankind turning on each other, we desolation, and we experience fear.  Fortunately, we also see hope and the will to live through a story well told.  I recommend this book.	2001-10-09
US	53026413	R1JL0NXPLO9G84	0312266596	559539342	Temple	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Place tongue firmly in cheek, open book, and enjoy!	This book reads like a James Bond/Indiana Jones adventure.  A mild-mannered guy finds himself thrust into the adventure of his life when he goes on a mission to Peru to find a lost idol.  His task is to translate some old writings.  He's spellbound by the writings because of the tale of danger, intrigue and survival they tell.  But nonetheless he wants to get the mission over with and return home because an old girlfriend that he'd loved and lost happens to show up on the mission.  In light of her successful career, and the fact that she seems pretty fond of another guy on the mission, he feels like a first class failure.  And as if that wasn't bad enough to spoil his day, he senses that something just isn't right with this mission.  The next thing he knows, he's thrust into the middle of a plot that could end mankind.  What's a mild-mannered professor to do?  <br />What follows is a LOT of action, a lot of bad guys, and a lot of fun.  Sure, while reading you've got to reign in your realism, and let your imagination run wild, but if you can do that, you're in for a lot of fun.  <br />The story is enjoyable, the dialogue is pretty good, and the action is fast and seems to never end.  Just as in an Indiana Jones adventure, danger is always around the corner and the &quot;hero&quot; has interesting ways of getting out of each sticky situation.  And as in a James Bond adventure, he has a few nice gadgets that come in real handy.  <br />The story changes focus now and then, allowing the reader to follow other characters and witness the trouble that they find themselves in and must get out of.  But despite this change in focus, the story doesn't get confusing. In sum, this is a fun read that I would recommend.	2001-10-09
US	53026413	R3O864XLPBRDNL	1567400558	549014158	To the Ends of the Earth	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A sappy but good read	As I first began listening to this book, I wondered whether I would even be able to finish it.  The book really zooms in on the two main characters, with some interaction from secondary characters.  As a result, your reading experienced is very focused on the emotions of the two characters -- their feelings, why they have them, their fears about relationships and their pain on imagined or real slights received from one another.  The activities and scenery surrounding these characters seems to pale in comparison to their story.<br />The thing that had me questioning whether I could finish this book is the fact that the book seemed so real, without the usual &quot;larger than life&quot; events that take place in the romances I usually to read.  (Which for me is usually historical romances.)  For example, I felt as if I could get the same kind of story by calling up a girlfriend and listening to tales of her romantic life.  At first that bothered me -- because it was so &quot;every day&quot;.  But after a while it began to grow on me, as did the characters.  By the end of the book, I didn't feel as if I'd wasted my time at all.  In fact, I realized that I'd read a story that differed from those I typically read; which is not a bad thing.<br />If you like stories that focus on relationships and the emotional development of the characters, and you don't need a lot of action or adventure (which in this type of story would draw away from the focus on relationships), then you'll like this book.  It wraps up rather nicely and it turned out to be a nice comfortable read.	2001-09-01
US	53026413	RCUMKNJDQP4ZF	158807000X	789204338	The Illegal Man	Books	3	1	1	N	N	I liked it...	While this wasn't the best thriller/mystery I've ever read, it was a pretty good one. John has a secret life that he'd prefer stay uncovered. He has a good marriage, a daughter he adores and a successful business. Unfortunately for John, someone wants to change all that. <br />After leaving for a short business trip, John comes home a wanted man after someone tried to commit a murder and it was blamed on him. From that point on, he's on the run trying to stay alive and figure out who is trying to kill him.  <br />The plot was good and had a nice twist to it. The character development was decent -- sufficient for the story, and the motives were feasible.  While the book will keep your interest, it's no real page-turner. In other words, I didn't miss any sleep from trying to stay up and read more, but on the other hand, I was interested in finding out what would happen next. In sum, I liked it and give it 3.5 stars.	2001-09-01
US	53026413	R412QUH3A72ZE	1587881462	896756059	Palindrome	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good book with a twist	Liz, a photographer, leaves what apparently was an abusive marriage and disappears to start a new life.  Luckily she has a good divorce attorney who gets more from her husband in the divorce settlement than shed expected.  With her new found freedom, she heads off to an island where she meets some interesting people who help her settle comfortably into her new life.  She happens to meet a man that shes very attracted to.  Lucky for her, the feeling is mutual even if he appears to be a little odd.  Life seems sweet until the one-by-one, the people she left behind in her old life start turning up dead.  After the first death, she suspects her husband, but shes got to convince the police that hes doing the murders.  Not only that, she begins to fear for her life.  While struggling with these new-found fears, she realizes that her new man friend is a little different.  She cant figure him out, but she knows that shes definitely attracted to him and she wants to hang in there with him.  At the same time, the detective shed talked to about her husband is beginning to believe that just maybe, shes right.  He begins an investigation into her ex-husband that could cost him his life.<br />This was a pretty good book.  The story starts off with enough drama to grab your attention, and for the most part, continues on in that same vein.  Theres always something going on  whether its the threat of a murder, the discovery of a mystery that needs to be solved, or just the unfolding events of new relationships  either way, the book has something to hold your interest.  The detective work is pretty good and interesting as well.  While I didnt totally buy-in to the motives for ALL of the killings, I still found the story to be a worthwhile read.  If you want suspense, drama, murder and some good detective work, youll find it all here.  You'll also find a surprise at the end.	2001-08-19
US	53026413	R29O5HT318KTEC	0061013439	995699181	The Run	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Interesting, but not exciting	If you like politics interspersed with a decent story, you'll likely feel right at home with this book.  Will Lee is an upstanding, likeable Senator that plans to run for President.  He has enough connections and a strong enough reputation to run and possibly win.  But, not surprisingly, not everyone is happy to see him run.  In fact, some people would rather see him dead.<br />The characters in this book play their parts well -- the crafty and powerful politicians, the secret service agents, the bad guys, Will Lee and family and friends.  All played believable parts and seemed &quot;real&quot;, even though I must admit, I thought the motive for Will Lee being a target of assassins was a tad weak.  However, the descriptions of the actions taken to carry out the assassination attempts was interesting, as were the interactions among the various characters.  The story also had a nice pace and didn't seem to bog down in any particular area.  <br />Despite the lack of excitement, I did enjoy the story and it kept my attention from beginning to end.  However, if you plan to read it, don't look for that special &quot;something&quot; found in other Stuart Woods books -- it's just not there.	2001-07-24
US	53026413	RPWQJSKM8NI6R	1559276592	321980030	Robert Ludlum's The Cassandra Compact: A Covert-One Novel	Books	3	11	12	N	N	A time-passer	I happened to like the Prometheus Deception, and therefore, fully expected to like this book too.  Like the Prometheus Deception, you'll find action, suspense, and diabolical characters.  However, unlike the Prometheus Deception, this book just didn't add up.  It's more like a movie that you go to see that has so much action going on that you don't realize that there really is no compelling story until the end.   <br />The plot was a familiar one and decent, but the events that took place -- at times, seemed a little far-fetched.  There wasn't a lot of character development, but what was done was sufficient.  However, the inclusion of characters from the earlier book seemed to be just to show continuity -- which isn't a bad thing, but it didn't seem necessary since there was no in-depth interaction among them.  Despite its &quot;faults&quot;, the book is entertaining enough to pass the time with and it is a decent read.  And, there were some pretty good suspenseful scenes in the book that kept me on pins and needles.  <br />If you read the book and don't expect the caliber of story you typically get from a Ludlum book, you'll be okay.	2001-07-22
US	53026413	R2VAOE0XV6FTQL	1559276592	321980030	Robert Ludlum's The Cassandra Compact: A Covert-One Novel	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A time-passer	OOPS! REVIEW MODIFIED TO REFER TO THE FIRST BOOK IN THE COVERT-ONE SERIES, THE HADES FACTOR (NOT THE PROMETHEUS DECEPTION AS INDICATED IN THE FIRST REVIEW).<br />I happened to really like the Hades Factor (HF), and therefore, fully expected to like this book too.  Like the HF, you'll find action, suspense, and diabolical characters.  However, unlike the HF, this book just didn't add up.  It's more like a movie that you go to see that has so much action going on that you don't realize that there really is no compelling story until the end.   <br />The plot was a familiar one and decent, but the events that took place -- at times, seemed a little far-fetched.  There wasn't a lot of character development, but what was done was sufficient.  However, the inclusion of characters from the earlier book seemed to be just to show continuity -- which isn't a bad thing, but it didn't seem necessary since there was no in-depth interaction among them.  Despite its &quot;faults&quot;, the book is entertaining enough to pass the time with and it is a decent read.  And, there were some pretty good suspenseful scenes in the book that kept me on pins and needles.  <br />If you read the book and don't expect the caliber of story you typically get from a Ludlum book, you'll be okay.	2001-07-22
US	53026413	R16NH8WLL77WNP	0441004520	84311395	The Killing Dance (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A darn good addition to the series...	Wow!  I just finished The Killing Dance and I must say it was good to the last word.  In this book, more of Anita's true feelings for Jean Claude and Richard are revealed and you can't help but feel for her as she struggles to cope with her mixed emotions.  You also learn more about Jean Claude and Richard, which only helps you to like them more.  While both have very different personalities, both are truly in love with Anita and only want the best for her.  <br />Anita tries admirably to deal with her feelings for both men which only puts her on an emotional roller coaster ride with no end in sight.  While she's dealing with that issue, things start to go down hill as she discovers that someone's out to get her and they're willing to pay top dollars to anyone who'll do it and do it quickly.  In pops Edward, her somewhat quiet, but lethally efficient &quot;friend&quot;.  Luckily, he's still on her side and only wants to help out.  <br />From there the pace picks up and gets even more tense as every move Anita makes could turn out to be her last.  She doesn't know who to trust, or why anyone would want her killed.  At least not right now.  Every potential friend could be the killer.  <br />As usual, all in a typical day, she has to tangle with police, lycanthropes, vampires, and anyone with a gun.  She also learns more about who she really is and about the powers she possesses. <br />This is an action-, emotion-, and thrill-packed read.  It's one of the best in the series in my opinion.  I'd definitely recommend it.  But I strongly suggest you read the first books in the series first.  Not because it's necessary to figure out what's going on in this book, but because the progression from the first books to this one is both interesting and action packed.  Besides that, you're bound to like them, so you'll wish you'd started at the beginning, and you'll better understand them and the decisions that they each have to make.	2001-06-14
US	53026413	R1SMEQ6LLDXKMJ	1587881217	386268764	Hunting Season	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Riveting!	Yep, I&#8217;ve got to agree with the other reviewers.  This book deserves a full 5-star rating.  It&#8217;s that good.  Imagine this, a loved one is missing and you don&#8217;t feel that the authorities are doing all they can to locate that person.  The average person lacks the skill, knowledge and resources to find out what&#8217;s happened.  Just so happens in this case, one of the parents is a former special agent who's been specially trained to track and hunt people down.  He decides to conduct a search of his own &#8211; and he&#8217;s got access to enough special equipment and skills to do a good job.  Unfortunately, his former employer doesn&#8217;t like the fact that he&#8217;s &#8220;resurfaced.&#8221;  So they decide to do something about it. <br />An FBI agent who just wants to do a good job, gets involved with the case and discovers there&#8217;s more to it than meets the eye.  Why is the FBI more interested in the former employee than the missing students?  She decides to find out.  Unfortunately, she&#8217;s not exactly trained well enough to do a good job, but she tries.  Making some dumb mistakes along the way, I might add.<br />Then there&#8217;s the angry parent of a man who died at Waco.  He&#8217;s been holding a grudge against the government for years.  Now, he&#8217;s got some diabolical plans of his own and he&#8217;s not going to let anyone get in the way of his plans. <br />Now add all that up and you get a plausible story with suspense, thrills, plenty of action, blood, bullets, dog chases, special effects, danger, and hiding places.  This book will grab your attention from the beginning and won&#8217;t let go until the end.  My only, albeit minor, complaint was the dumb FBI agent that tries to help out.  She really tries, but well, she TRULY lacks the skills to get in on the hunt.  Luckily, that doesn&#8217;t take away from the book.  Instead, it adds to your stress level as you read on, biting your fingernails to the quick, as you try tofind out what&#8217;s going to happen next and whether or how she'll make it out of the next scrape she gets herself into.  <br />My recommendation, buy it.  And if you decide to buy the unabridged audio book version, you&#8217;re in for a special treat.  The talented Dick Hill is the reader.  His ability to set the tone of a book and add thrills, chills, etc. just when it&#8217;s needed, makes listening to him a real treat.	2001-06-09
US	53026413	R355CQHJHCXGY5	1587882493	969944777	Heart of a Warrior (Ly-san-ter Series)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Okay at best...	Because of Ms. Lindsey's writing skills, I expected more out of this book than I got.  The characters were okay, I liked them both and they had potential.  But their interactions with each other seemed a little &quot;sterile.&quot;  In other words, the strong feelings of excitement and longing you typically expect to see in a romance novel, just weren't there.  Maybe that can be attributed to the fact that Brittany wasn't sure about what/whom she was dealing with.  Sure, she was attracted to Dalden, but his claims of being from another planet seemed to make her a little cautious in her dealings with him.  ...and there went the fireworks in this romance.  <br />The other characters, that sometimes irritating computer that acts as an advisor/interpretor/etc., Dalden's parents, and the alien Dalden had set out in search of, all added to the story.  But unfortunately, even their presence didn't make it rise to the level of being a captivating story.    <br />I did like the other-world building.  The planet seemed interesting and their philosophy on life could definitely add some sparks to a romance novel dealing with a person that doesn't agree with their ways or their way of thinking.  I think following a character as she discovers the differences in the two planets, as Brittany began to do in this novel, could prove interesting. <br />In sum, because this was a romance novel, I expected a few more sparks than there were.  I wouldn't recommend this book as one for a person just discovering Ms. Lindsey's work.  Try something else first; she really is a good writer that can snatch you up into the world of her characters.  Unfortunately, this book isn't proof of that fact.	2001-05-20
US	53026413	R34PI81GQO8JWX	0505523647	770728227	Once A Pirate	Books	3	7	8	N	N	A satisfying read	Overall, I enjoyed this book.  It grabs your attention from the beginning and does a fairly decent job of holding it.  I liked both of the romantic characters, and I enjoyed the fact that the woman, Carly, had some of the objects from her time still on her possession when she went back in time.  That helped to add more intrigue to the story and keep it fresh.  I also appreciated the fact that Carly acted like what she was, a modern day woman -- even though she found herself in the past.  And more importantly, Andrew didn't seem to mind her &quot;different&quot; ways at all.  <br />Despite all that is likeable about this book, it wasn't the best romance novel I've ever read.  While the characters liked each other, I didn't feel that &quot;electricity&quot; between them that I like in such stories.  Because of this, the book wasn't as good as I had expected from the reviews.  But nonetheless, it is a good story and it is worth reading.	2001-05-07
US	53026413	RLT0ZNDF0CVH3	0553527975	54175040	The Cutout	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Overall, an okay read...	I just finished the abridged version of this book and found it a little uneven.  Parts of the book were very good and kept my attention.  For me, those parts were action-based, or had some interesting dialog going between the characters.  Other parts didn't fare so well and I had to keep rewinding the tape because my attention span would drift.  I think for me the book got too bogged down at times in the &quot;politics&quot; of what was happening, giving more of a historical perspective of what led up to the kidnapping.  While learning the motives behind a character's actions is a &quot;good thing,&quot; the delivery here just didn't do it for me.  In sum, however, the book wasn't a bad read; it's just that I've read better.	2001-04-10
US	53026413	R3OM7BN4VKEZ5S	1567403522	394302937	Welcome to Temptation (Bookcassette Edition)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A light, enjoyable read...	Just finished this book, my first by the author, and I pretty much enjoyed it.  It's a light-hearted book that plops you right in the middle of a small town where you feel as if you're sitting back watching what really goes on behind closed doors.  <br />The town is full of nosey neighbors who have nothing better to do than to watch their neighbors and especially any new-comers, and speculate on what they're doing and how whatever that is will destroy the good morals of their town.  They have a field day when Sophie Dempsey, who's from the wrong side of the tracks, meets up with Phinn Tucker, the town's mayor who's from the right side of the tracks.  And worse yet, he's been seen going out to her place!  And if that isn't bad enough, the townspeople are convinced that any video this new-comer and her sister are planning to film must be porn.  Sparks fly, tongues wag, and somebody gets murdered.<br />Welcome to Temptation is a gossipy, fun read that's dotted with great sex and romance.  Even though this isn't the type of book I normally read, it reads like a book you should curl up with on a lazy, sunny afternoon by the pool -- and don't forget the lemonade.  I found it enjoyable and will likely purchase another of Ms. Crusie's books.	2001-03-25
US	53026413	R29L5Z1YPNRWZ1	155927610X	931904718	The Prometheus Deception	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good, &quot;old-style&quot; Ludlum	You've got to give an author credit for being able to craft an action/adventure novel that has as complex a plot as this one has, that keeps you flipping the pages to see what's going to happen next, and that makes sense in the end.  Although I can't profess to having read all of Ludlum's works, I can say this book reminded me of some of his earlier works -- such as the Bourne novels.  <br />You'll be breathless as you follow Nick Bryson from one tight spot to the next -- and there are plenty of those.  Luckily, the tight spots are interesting and the scrapes and bruises he picks up and leaves behind are well worth the read.  The characters are interesting, and are believable as formiddable opponents.  I couldn't figure out who the good guys/girls were and who Nick should trust.  Luckily for us, he couldn't either, so the story stayed interesting and kept me guessing.<br />There's a drop of romance involved, but romance is definitely not the focus of the book.  What little there is, though, fits nicely within the plot.  If you like books with a lot of action (as in bang, bang, shoot-em up and run like hell), then this is the book for you.  If you enjoy Ludlum's older novels -- the spy-conspiracy thing with the intricate plot, you'll likely love this one.  I'm also happy to report that if you decide to listen to the book, the reader does a pretty good job so you won't be disappointed.	2001-03-20
US	53026413	R1V4A5WHWN9EE	1587880733	864794808	L. A. Dead (Stone Barrington Series)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A decent but uninspiring read	This was a decent read, but it didn't have the zest or that &quot;something&quot; that I found enjoyable in Wood's &quot;Worst Fears Realized.&quot;  The story line is okay, but not very inspiring. Stone's old girlfriend (Arrington) is in trouble.  Still in love with her, despite the fact that she's now married to and has a child by someone she dumped Stone for, he runs to her rescue.  That action wreaks havoc on Stone's personal life -- or I should say more havoc.  <br />Unfortunately, Arrington's performance in this novel is lackluster at best.  It was like watching a movie and wondering why a particular actor was cast for the part.  Luckily, most of the other characters were well-cast and interesting and added life to the story.  <br />In addition to crime-solving, Stone engaged in a little womanizing in this book. However, that didn't bother me especially since under the circumstances, I saw no real reason for him not to.  In fact, that helped liven up the story.<br />If you have time to spare and just happen to like Stone Barrington, then go ahead and pick up the book.  It is a decent read, it's just not great.  If you've never read Wood's work, start with something else so you can appreciate the writer's talent before giving up on him just when you're starting.	2001-03-20
US	53026413	RXEGNJ66KS693	0694521507	796925803	Worst Fears Realized	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A fast paced, good read...	I'm happy to say that despite the average ratings this book received, I took a chance and bought it.  (I have to admit, it WAS on sale when I bought it though.)  Anyway, having read it, I'd have purchased it at full price had I known how enjoyable a read this was.  <br />I've read a few Stone Barrington books in my day, but admittedly not a lot.  This one, however, ranks up there on my list because of the &quot;excitement&quot; factor in this book.  It was a fast paced read, that seemed charged with energy, wit, dry humor and suspense.  I felt as if I knew the characters, and was hanging out with them.  <br />The women in Stone's life tug him this way and that, but in either direction, they add life and nice twists to the story.  The danger factor was high too, and that part of the book was interesting and well written.  The killer was crafty, intelligent and hell-bent on getting whomever he was after.  He had Stone looking over his shoulder trying to get out of this mess.  <br />In sum, I really enjoyed this book.  The narrator of the audiobook version I listened to was excellent.  His skills brought the story and the characters to life and added to my enjoyment.  I would recommend this book.	2001-03-15
US	53026413	R1EE7HOBLFAIMF	0929480228	813744810	Savage Season	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A solid, lean, mystery...	This is the first novel I've read by this author.  My first impression: this was an average story. <br />What I liked: the author's &quot;lean&quot; writing style eliminates the need for wading through unnecessary fluff to get to the heart of the story.  Fortunately, this style of writing doesn't hurt the book.  The characters are pretty well developed, and the strong friendship and personalities of Hap and Leonard are clearly defined through the characters' words and actions, which is a tribute to the author's writing skill.  The plot is interesting, and most of the events that take place propel the story forward.  A few events seemed unnecessary, but it could be that I just didn't see where they fit in.<br />Other characters introduced throughout the story all play their parts well.  The contrast in their personalities and their sometimes volatile interactions with each other, add spice to the story.<br />What I didn't like: the story itself was average.  The premise seemed good -- accepting a job to find money that was hidden after an earlier robbery, but the story lacked the umph I was looking for.  I suppose this could be due to the fact that I prefer thrillers and this book falls into more of a mystery category, which, in my opinion, usually don't take you on the roller coaster ride that thrillers do.  So, while the characters played their parts well, and they were interesting characters, the story nonetheless lacked excitement.  Action it had; suspense it had; but thrills it didn't have.<br />Would I recommend it: Yes.  If you love mysteries and books that tell the story without a lot of fluff, you'll likely love this story.  If your tastes lean more towards thrillers, you'll find this a decent read, but it likely won't satisfy you the way that a good thriller will.	2001-03-13
US	53026413	R4MPLHXWV2K13	1892520400	601542328	Cajun Hot	Books	4	80	82	N	N	A little hot sauce with my romance please... :-)	I didn't know what to expect when I purchased this book.  But what I got was a nice surprise.  This book is a mixture of erotica and romance, and the mix is just right.  The rich and gorgeous Jacques has been spurned by women in the past.  However, he hasn't yet given up his hope that he'll meet that special someone that wants HIM and not just his money.  In comes Sahara.  She's lived the penniless life before and wants that big house up on the hill and the niceties that money can bring.  She meets Jacques who's devastatingly gorgeous and sexy beyond belief, but he appears to have no ambition or money.  What's a girl to do when what looks like the man of your dreams is penniless?<br />This book starts off very sexy and continues throughout.  Some of the sex scenes, okay, most of the sex scenes are scandalous but oh so hot!  And as the passion heats up, so too does Jacques and Sahara's feelings for each other.  Considering the relatively short length of this book, the author packs a lot into it.  In a short time, you'll find yourself caring for the characters (and just loving Jacques), and speeding from one page to the next to see what's going to happen next, and to see if these two -- that seem made for each other, will get together in the end.  The build up and suspense is well worth the read.  However, I do not recommend reading this book in public.  That wicked grin on your face or that glazed look in your eyes, just might give you away.	2001-03-03
US	53026413	R4IZHLB1R5U4I	1587880547	212960003	Flint	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A good read...	From the beginning, this book reeled me in and kept my attention.  I liked the writer's style, the storyline, and the characters.  Grace is a very likeable strong-willed person who's out to find and get the person that killed her partner and almost killed her just years earlier.  The beginning of the book sets up the chase and catches your attention.  Unfortunately, after that, the ride, at least for me, got a little bumpy.  <br />Parts of the book were just great and had me racing through it to see what would happen next.  Other parts were, well, yawn...not so plausible and seemed to be dragged out forever.  I s'pose I found it hard to believe that Grace would set out alone on such a dangerous mission, and pit herself against a ruthless killer and his band of thugs, just to get revenge. I mean, I can understand wanting revenge, but I'd have to have a little back up before I &quot;go in alone&quot; against that type of adversary.  <br />Aside from that, I liked the complexity of the plot and the various characters that helped to propel this book forward.  The different locations described in the book added to the story and helped to give it personality.  And while I think the author could have ended the story a little earlier than he did, it was nonetheless a good read.<br />I give it 3.5 stars.	2001-03-02
US	53026413	R8HDQNTZ479MA	1567404510	433485830	The Passenger	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Well worth the read	This book doesn't break new ground.  It reads like an old familiar mystery-suspense movie that we've all seen at least once. The good thing is, it would have been one of those movies that had us glued to our chairs.  What I'm trying to say here is, this is a good book.  I give it 3.5 stars.  <br />The plot spins a nice web of intrigue that pulls the reader in. A lot is going on, but it all ties together nicely in the end. The characters play their roles well, and, for the most part, act in ways you would expect them to.  And while I was afraid that the parts of the book dealing with the technical aspects of an airplane crash would bore me to tears, I'm happy to report that I was wrong.  The technical details were revealed through dialogue between characters, which made them interesting and palatable.  Besides that, the author gave only the details we needed to know, rather than trying to show off any technical knowledge on his part.  A good choice.  Finally, the story moves along at a pretty fast pace revealing details of the investigation along the way.  And just when I thought the book was over, the author threw in a slight twist at the end.  <br />In sum, the book is good and I recommend it.	2001-02-25
US	53026413	R17HY7R559QB0B	0966820932	449689524	BloodWind	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Very good sci-fi romance	After reading this book, I'm left with mixed feelings about it.  While on the one hand, I very much enjoyed the book, on the other hand, something about it prevents a 5-star rating.  <br />THE GOOD: Characterization -- wow.  Ms. Boyett-Compo did an excellent job here.  By the time I completed the book, I felt as if the characters were personal acquaintenances of mine -- no small feat.  I could easily see them in my mind's eye, and their actions seemed plausible considering their personalities.   <br />Scenes -- Another very good job here.  The scenes were described in such detail that you felt as if you were there witnessing the events as they happened.  Captain Kree's interactions with Bridget were sizzling...sigh.  Even though feared by most as a dangerous man, he treated her with kid gloves.  Hot, hot, hot.  But, when angered or when you're not on his &quot;good&quot; list, watch out!  <br />I also liked the different locations where the scenes took place.  This and the actions that happened at each location added spice or adventure to the story.  <br />Plot -- The plot was good too.  Complexities were weaved into it which made it more interesting, and keeps you turning the pages.  This book has adventure, danger, romance, and intrigue.<br />THE BAD -- Not much here.  I think what keeps me from rating this book 5-stars is a romantic element.  The focus of the story was the women seeking revenge on the men.  As a result, a lot of attention was placed on that aspect of the story and the events that moved their plot forward.  While that part of the book kept my adrenaline pumping, I wanted a little more development on the romance side.  Ms. Boyett-Compo does an excellent job of setting up the romance and playing it out, but I felt as if a little more would have satisfied my craving. In other words, more romantic emphasis on the ending so that I get the &quot;and they lived happily ever after...sigh&quot; feel.<br />BOTTOM LINE: This is a very good book that I highlyrecommend. Why?, because I finished it a little over a week ago and I still wake up thinking about Captain Kree and Bridget.  That to me is the sign of a darned good book.   <br />I plan on reading the sequels to this book, and other books by this author.  (This is my second book, and the first one is what sent me in search for more.)  Good job Ms. Boyett-Compo, you've got a fan.	2001-02-18
US	53026413	R2UVEVSF9XI9QZ	0738803618	631274743	Battle-Chasers	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Wow!	&quot;It was a good day to die.&quot; That's the first sentence of this book, and believe me, it sets the tone for what is to follow.  <br />From page one, this book grabs you by the throat and drags you along through the filth, decay, and appalling aftermath of the death and destruction that is the sad result of a fierce battle.  The setting is a big battlefield, and interestingly enough, the whole story takes place in a single day after the battle has ended. Not everyone on the battlefield is dead, though most are.  But of those left alive, all have a purpose for living.  Some have noble causes, others slink around looking for even more victims.  This story tells you...excuse me, shows you what their objectives are, and what they do to accomplish them.  <br />This is not your typical fantasy.  For example, this is the first book I've read that has a cast including dragons, dwarves, vampires and even zombies to name a few.  But it's a good story told very well.  As you change chapters, you move back and forth among the characters and see the story from their eyes.  On one page, you'll find yourself holding your breath as one person struggles desperately to stay alive, and a few pages down, you'll find yourself hoping the bad guy gets what's coming to him.  Either way, you'll come to care for some of the characters.  And don't worry, while the premise for the story seems dark, there is light at the end of the tunnel.  <br />This book is just the way I like them -- the pace is fast, the action is furious, the scenes are described well, and the story is darned good.  I recommend this book to fantasy lovers who want to try something a little different.	2001-02-18
US	53026413	R13PM1TC3CT9BC	1567406750	92174861	A Season Beyond a Kiss	Books	3	3	3	N	N	An historical mystery with romance	I didn't know until about one-third of the way through this book whether or not I would like it.  Why?  Because this is not your typical historical romance - which is what I was expecting.  In the typical historical romance, woman meets man, sparks fly, the two would-be lovers fight their growing mutual attraction to each other, or either they don't realize it.  Woman gets into trouble, man acts as her knight in shining armor and eventually they realize that no one else on earth can satisfy them the way they do each other.  They fall in love and marry.  The End.<br />In this book, yes the setting is historical, but the woman and man are married from the beginning.  To top that off, mystery and danger surrounds their relationship from the beginning, putting a damper on any feelings they might have for each other.  And thus, you find yourself reading an historical mystery that is also a romance novel.  Now once you realize and accept that fact - that the mystery is a large part of this story - then you can settle down and enjoy what turned out to be a pretty good book.  <br />No, it's not the best romance novel I've ever read, but it is entertaining once you put it in perspective.  The woman is not as strong-minded as I would like, but her husband more than makes up for what she lacks.  Rather than catering to her when she makes dumb mistakes, he stands up to her and makes her reflect on the actions she takes.  He's no love-struck fool who'll do anything to please his beautiful wife.  Yes, he wants her and is falling deeply in love with her, but he's still a man about it.  <br />The mystery is pretty good too.  As the mystery began to unfold, I found myself paying careful attention to each word trying to find clues that could help me solve the mystery before I got to the end.  I guessed wrong, but it was still fun trying to figure it out.  There's also another romance going on between other interesting characters in the book.  While that romance is not the focus of the book, it lent even more satisfaction to the story.  Bottom line, if you like mystery novels and don't mind some romance mixed in, then you'll likely enjoy this book.  On the other hand, if you prefer the typical type of historical romances (like I do), then I suggest you look elsewhere and save this book for a time when you want to try something different.	2001-02-16
US	53026413	R1UIHHZMX90C83	0553527657	798168467	Ilse Witch (The Voyage of the Jerle Shannara, Book 1)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Could've been better...	This is my first Terry Brooks book.  Considering his popularity, I thought it was about time I read one.  Unfortunately, I've picked up what might not be Terry at his best.  While this was book was okay, it seemed like more of a &quot;teaser&quot; to me.  <br />The story started off pretty good with the hint of mystery, danger, and adventure -- which is right up my alley.  Unfortunately, the story never really delivered.  The characters were interesting, and I found myself liking them and wanting to follow the story to see what would happen.  The descriptions of events was good too.  It was very easy to visualize the characters in action because of Terry's writing style in this area.  The plot on the other hand is what is lacking.  The story would be going along pretty good, building up to what I thought would be something &quot;big&quot; happening.  But instead, that storyline would just kind of fizzle out -- which is why I call the book a teaser.  You're given hints of something greater than what is actually delivered.  The plot held a lot of promise, but the author didn't quite deliver in the way I'm assuming he could have.  <br />But overall, the book was still decent and I don't regret spending the money on it because even though I think it could have been better, I like Terry's writing style.  The book will either leave you wanting more or wondering if the next book in the series will be worth the wait.  I'm still undecided.	2001-02-02
US	53026413	R1XZ1ZFIUXUCVO	0694523275	321782752	Rising Phoenix Low Price Cassette	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Entertaining read...	A pretty entertaining read.  While this book isn't spectacular, it still is a good read.  The author takes a different spin on fighting the drug war that adds interest to this book.  Unfortunately, the characters were average and didn't stand out for any reason in particular.  While this doesn't diminish the enjoyment of the book, it would have been nice if stronger characters that more aptly fit the plot had been included.  But you'll still find the book enjoyable, because the story moves along at a nice pace, and it is interesting to see the response to this fight against drugs.	2001-01-28
US	53026413	R34B3AEUO1KGF8	1572701315	727639880	The Wizard's Daughter (Doctrine and Devotion)	Books	1	6	9	N	N	Sheer agony...	Let me say up front, I don't typically read this genre.  So keep that in mind when you read my comments.  Now for my comments:<br />This was one of the hardest books I've ever listened to.  On more than one occasion I started to just give up and call it a loss.  But I kept listening hoping it would get better; it didn't.  I purchased the book based upon its synopsis and other reviews.  But quite frankly, after forcing myself to listen to it, I can sum it up by saying, this book was boring.<br />The pace is too slow, and contrary to the synopsis, there's no &quot;earthly terror&quot; to be found here. However, there is mystery but it's no great mystery.  And what there was, was unraveled so slowly that I really didn't care about the outcome.  To top it off, most of the characters weren't interesting including the main one, Marianne.  She was more of an irritant with her simpering ways, than anything else.  The setting is dreary, and the story, yawn...  Rather than bash this book, I'll end here and say this was definitely not my cup of tea.  I prefer books that have either interesting characters and events, or action.  This book lacked both.	2001-01-22
US	53026413	R6K61BRII0DV6	0694522600	350138143	Under Cover of Darkness	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Good suspense story...3.5 Stars	This is one of the better suspense novels I've read recently.  Not the best, but one of the better ones.  Not wasting time, the author jumps right into the suspense that carries throughout the story.  As the story moves along, you learn more about the characters and come to care for them and what happens.  The various characters are likeable and for the most part, act in ways you would expect them to act.  The author also reveals bits and pieces of the mystery throughout the storyline, giving you enough information to help you try to figure out what the outcome will be, but not enough to reveal everything too fast.  And, a plot twist towards the end gave me an unexpected but much appreciated surprise.  <br />While the story was good and it kept my attention, it could have been better...maybe with a faster pace, and more tightly woven suspense.  Despite this, I would still recommend this book.	2001-01-16
US	53026413	R1F3DBWCV5JX40	0061087114	202371265	Pirate of Her Own, A	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Can I have a pirate too? ....sigh	This is my first MacGregor book, but it won't be my last.  This book was great from beginning to end.  The heroine, Serenity, is no simpering beauty subject to the vapors.  She's strong, strong-willed, and daring -- even though she's rather clueless about men.  The hero, Morgan, is -- sigh, just the type of man I'd be happy with.  <br />Any way, Serenity longs for adventure and gets more than she bargained for when she meets Morgan.  From their first meeting, the sparks fly and from there you're taken along a for a nice, romantic adventure that's full of humor, wit, and just plain fun.  Both characters fight a losing battle to hold down their growing attraction for one another.  But of course, they fail miserably.  Although the romance doesn't get hot and steamy until towards the end of the book, the story is so interesting, and funny that you don't really notice.  Okay, ... you notice but it's no problem.   <br />I highly recommend this book to lovers of historical (or any) romance novels.  It's fun, fresh, and the ending rises to the occasion and gives you a few more laughs and smiles before it's all over.	2001-01-08
US	53026413	R393ZK06N6YFXN	0451456718	81571344	Daughter of the Blood (Black Jewels, Book 1)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	If you don't know what dark fantasy is, then read this...	I read this book with high hopes after seeing all of the positive reviews.  It is the first dark fantasy I've ever read and yes, it's dark.  It's as if a pall is hanging over your head as you read.  Luckily the world the author created was interesting, so I continued to read.    <br />For the good points: the book is rich in characterization, the events are &quot;different&quot;, as is the world the characters live in, and the plot is decent.  Unfortunately, for me, that still didn't add up to a really good book.  I think the lack of action is what did it.  I don't need action on every page, but there was little action in this book, save for the last few pages which I tore through eagerly.  In addition, the first few chapters were confusing.  In them, the author is introducing various characters and the concepts that work for this &quot;world&quot;.  These chapters are necessary for understanding the story, but they're not the easiest to follow.  <br />If you can make it past the first few chapters, if you appreciate books that are heavy into characterization, and if you like your fantasy dark, then you'll likely love this book.  If you like action, you should look elsewhere because you won't find much of it here.	2001-01-02
US	53026413	R10G3NQH3O9OV2	0505523426	124808605	The Changeling Bride	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A fun, sexy, historical romance with a twist	By the time I finished this book I was in tears.  Thankfully the tears stemmed from my joy in having the book end just the way I would have hoped for.  The premise for this story -- someone going back in time and having to deal with things they're not used to -- is not a fresh idea.  But the way it is told in this story is.  This book was fun, spunky, sexy, and full of romance.  If you ever wondered how you'd feel if you were transported back in time, then read this book to find out.  After finding herself transported back in time, Wilhelmina reacts in ways that I think I would act if I found myself in her predicament.  She reacts to things in ways that women in historical times would not, which puts her in one predicament after another as she tries to hide her true identity in order to fit in.  Her actions, which ring true, make it very easy to get immersed in the story.  And to top it off, she finds herself entangled with a gorgeous man that has a sensitive side.  What more can you ask for?  <br />The descriptions of events and the characters, as well as the interactions the characters have with each other makes you feel as if you're there along side them.  So, if you're looking for a interesting and sexy historical romance, then look no farther ... you've found it.  This is a good book.  And the ending is great!	2000-12-24
US	53026413	R122DJA839G5EY	0694523976	588826635	Hit List (John Keller Mysteries)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Good solid story.	Okay, I'll admit...I struggled through the start of this story.  I found it vaguely interesting but not a book that had me racing to get to the next page.  However, as I continued to listen, I began to appreciate more of what the author had been doing that I'd found less than riveting...he'd been building up the story, providing information about the characters and letting you get to know them.  The next thing I knew, I WAS racing to get to the next page.  <br />The characters are likeable, but of course the hit man is fleshed out the most.  I liked that fact that he was made real, through the relationships he had and the feelings the author let us see about his life and the choices he had to make.  The action in the story was pretty interesting too.  This isn't a racy, fast-paced read, but it is a good solid read that has meat on its bones.  <br />Would I recommend it?  Yes.  If you like mystery, then this is a good mystery story.  If you're more interested in faced-paced thrillers, you might still find this book good, as I did, but you'll have to slow your pace and just enjoy it.  <br />One note though: I usually don't like it when authors read their own stories.  For some reason, what I expect from them and what I get just doesn't add up.  That's the case with this story.  Mr. Block's voice just didn't &quot;do it&quot; for me.  I would have preferred another reader, but still, his reading it didn't spoil the book for me.	2000-12-18
US	53026413	R2PF1OWFVKDCJQ	1567404952	58250960	Rough Draft (Bookcassette)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A good, but not great story	I enjoyed this book, and I'll agree with some of the other reviewers who said that the plot was solid.  But having said that, I don't think this book was as good as it could have been. I think maybe that had something to do with the killer, who plodded along like a dolt doing what he had to do, and the way he killed people.  I give the author credit for his imagination in that area, but I had a hard time seeing how it could actually be done.  <br />I also didn't particularly care for the mother in this story. Having been a cop before she turned to writing, I guess I expected more from her -- in the sense that she should have been a little more savvy -- when it came to facing danger.  <br />The story itself is interesting.  It has a little of everything -- action, romance, and suspense.  But it fails in putting it all together into a compelling read.  My guess is, that different characters could have pulled this one off, and made this into the great story it could have been.  I would recommend it, but I suggest you borrow it from the library or purchase the paperback.	2000-12-10
US	53026413	R2PCFJCB01ZH37	0736647759	395691528	Surrender	Books	3	5	6	N	N	A fairly passionless romance	As romance novels go, this one wasn't bad.  But it was definitely no page-turner either.<br />What I liked: I like historical romances, and to that extent, this book fit the bill.  While I don't know how accurate the events in the book are, you got the feeling that you were getting a glimpse of history as you read.  <br />I also liked Jerome.  He's a very likeable character that made you want to read more about him.  Risa was pretty likeable too even if the author did have her carry on a bit much about which side of the war each of them were on.  The author infused a little mystery in the story that worked well, and had me interested in finding out what would happen next, and who was behind the dastardly deeds.  She also had some decent scenes where Risa got herself into one scrape or another and Jerome had to get her out of it.  It's because of these scenes that I liked Jerome.<br />What I didn't like:  Jerome and Risa together didn't inspire much passion.  Yes, there was some passion, but something was lacking in their interaction that made this book a little less than what it could have been.  I think it's because the two characters didn't interact often enough in ways that would lead up to the type of passion typically seen in historical romances.  Usually in these books, the sparks are flying when the two characters meet even though they fight off the growing feelings of love.  In this book, while there were some sparks, they kind of fizzled, rather than grew into a raging fire.  So it was hard for me to really care whether their romance grew into something meaningful or not.   <br />I also didn't like the fact that the author had Jerome's sister involved in what could have been a decent subplot, but failed to deliver on it.  I was left with questions about what happened with that part of the story.  And to top it off, the book's ending was a little less than inspiring.  <br />All in all, the pieces for a good story were all here, but the author didn't deliver.What you have is a fairly decent romance that you can pass the time with.  But if you want a really good story, I suggest you look elsewhere.	2000-12-05
US	53026413	R30RTD7QYK7QCL	156100474X	98518293	Scimitar	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A pretty good read...	I was pleasantly surprised by this book and expected it to be a dud since there are so few reviews.  But I'm happy to say, I enjoyed the book (and I didn't waste my money purchasing it). <br />The book focuses on a planned terrorist act and the detective work that was geared towards stopping it.  The story was told well and interestingly, and the characters were three dimensional.  The &quot;bad guy&quot; was cold-blooded, but still had a human-side.  In other words, he didn't kill everyone that crossed his path, and he had something of a &quot;life&quot; other than killing.  The author gave just enough glimpses of that to contrast with what has to be a sick mind in order to passionlessly kill people.  <br />The author threw in a few plot surprises which added to the suspense, and helped to paint a clearer picture of the terrorist.  The dialog was appropriate and not boring, and the author's writing style is good.  And to make things better, the audio book reader was very good and made the book even more enjoyable.  This is a book I'd recommend.	2000-11-28
US	53026413	R5KIX5BI7INP2	1587881241	497739972	A Kiss of Shadows (Meredith Gentry, Book 1)	Books	1	17	24	N	N	Didn't like it...	I am a big fan of Laurell Hamilton. I picked this book up with an open mind, expecting to like it even though it wasn't part of the vampire series. I'm sorry to say, I was sorely disappointed. <br />I didn't care for the plot. It existed, and in the beginning I understood the direction the story was headed in. But after reading more, I began to wonder if there really was a plot. The story seemed to meander around -- or maybe that was just me since the book barely held my attention. Unfortunately, rather than enjoying the story, I found myself trying to figure out what the point of the story was, and what type of book this was supposed to be.  A sci-fi romance, a sci-fi adventure, a sci-fi mystery... what? I never figured it out.<br />Beyond that, the characters were okay, but not very exciting. I think I was too distracted by the descriptions of these &quot;creatures&quot; who sounded like something out of the twilight zone, to get to really know them.<br />And the sex.  Please...  I read erotica, and I definitely don't mind sex in the books I read, but this was grotesque. I found it hard to find the sex scenes erotic or enjoyable when most of them appeared to involve pain or the desire for it. And to top that off, the descriptions of the elves, goblins and whatever else that were engaging in sex was a turn off because these creatures were described as having extra body parts that were non-human in description, extra beings living on a single body, etc. No turn-on here!!<br />The story didn't have the kick or the &quot;fun&quot; that I get from Ms. Hamilton's vampire series. No, I wasn't looking for that same story line, but I was looking for the type of writing exhibited in those books.  It just wasn't here.<br />Bottom line, I did not care for this book. If you want to read it, I'd recommend a trip to the library rather than spending your money. Save that for something else.	2000-11-24
US	53026413	R20CW8OXIOEQEQ	1567404987	783765194	Middle of Nowhere (Lou Boldt/Daphne Matthews Series)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Slow-paced thriller (make that 3.5 stars)	Okay, I'll say it up front...this was a good detective story.  The focus is on investigative work needed to get to the bottom of some crimes.  In that respect, the story was pretty interesting.  You're presented with enough character development to carry the plot; but don't expect indepth character development.  I give the author credit for the pretty good job he does in describing scenes with sufficient, but not too much detail.  That was just right.  <br />The story didn't rate higher than 3.5 stars for me because it was a little slow.  The story seems to flow at a rather leisurely pace until you get to the last quarter or so of the story.  At that point, the action, suspense, and tension picks up.  There is some action and suspense earlier in the story, but most of it appears to be at the end.   <br />Even though this book lacks the amount of action/excitement I tend to prefer, I'd still recommend it.  However, I'd limit my recommendation to persons that don't need a lot of action in their stories.  There is some action, and what there is is very good, but action is not the focus of this book.  Good detective/investigative work is.  So, if you're an armchair detective, I'd say buy it.  It's a story you will enjoy.	2000-11-10
US	53026413	R101E3KO5G1FMS	0553527231	996234195	The Search (Eve Duncan)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Okay but no cigar...	I wish someone had told me that this story involved conversations with a dog.  If I'd known, I would have left this book on the shelf.  Now don't get me wrong.  I love animals, and I especially love dogs.  But I don't want to read a book that has someone reading their dogs thoughts and actually having a running dialog with the dog as if they were having a long conversation.  That's a bit much to swallow unless the book is fantasy or horror or something, but not a mystery/thriller.  <br />Now aside from the talking dog routine, the story itself was decent. The characters were likeable, the plot was interesting, and the scenery was okay.  There was some suspense, but not enough to have you flipping the pages at warp speed.  The obligatory romance was even plausible.  In short, the story wasn't bad.  The question is &quot;would I recommend it?&quot;  Sorry for all you Johansen fans, the answer is no.  Not unless you can overlook the talking dog.  I found that too distracting to really enjoy what could have been a really good story.	2000-11-01
US	53026413	R3G5M68T5OEIKF	0312967098	129830098	Survivor	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An interesting story, told well.	Well, you've got to give the author credit for coming up with the plot for this story.  For anyone that loves technology, even the thought of being thrown back to the Stone Age where there's not a computer in sight has got to be a nightmare!  Perish the thought!  <br />I picked up this book to see what it could possibly be like to have that happen.  What I found was a pretty interesting story that seems to have been well-researched.  The character, Mark, acts just like you would expect him to act.  At first, he can't believe what's happened to him.  He just wants outta there.  And then, realization sinks in and he figures out that he's got to learn to survive or die.  Not knowing who or what is a true danger to him, he's scared of everything at first.  And in many instances he should be. <br />Mark's &quot;adventures&quot; as he learns to survive is what makes this story good.  He makes numerous mistakes along the way and is always trying to get himself out of one bad situation only to find himself in another.  Eventually he catches on, and by that time, you're rooting for him since he's been through so much. <br />I enjoyed this book and would recommend it.	2000-10-28
US	53026413	R1I3R5H0GISFUF	1559275995	369520939	Robert Ludlum's The Hades Factor: A Covert-One Novel	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Hated for it to end!  I give it 4.5 stars	You know a book is good when you're not even half way through it and you're already dreading reaching the end because you don't want the story to stop.  That's how I felt about Ludlum's latest.  This book is good.<br />I've read a number of Ludlum's books, my favorite being the Scorpio Illusion, and this one ranks up there with that book.  Not wasting time, Ludlum starts off with something mysterious going and a person determined to find out what it is.  After that tidbit of information, &quot;bullets are flying, dogs are barking, people are running&quot; and you're dragged along at an ever increasing pace.  Luckily, along the way, you're introduced to some very interesting and talented characters that add alot to the storyline.  And, the differences in their personalities makes for some interesting interactions.  To make things better, the descriptions of the different places the characters visit and their actions are done skillfully enough that you'll have no problem immersing yourself in the story.  <br />To top things off, if you love gadgets and technology (like I do), you'll grin eagerly as you flip the pages.  For a while there, James Bond popped into my mind as I read.  But don't get me wrong, unlike the feeling you get from Bond movies, what's happening in this book seems very plausible.  <br />In sum, if you're looking for a fast-paced book with some very diverse and interesting characters, and some darned good action and adventure, give this book a try.  I think you'll be pleased.  If you decide to listen to this book, you won't be disappointed.  The reader does an excellent job of changing voices for the different characters, and keeping his tone at a pitch and pace that fits the story.  And, the back ground music that filters in on occasion is kind of nice.	2000-10-27
US	53026413	R3PAFJ541ZOD28	0743204786	885388260	The Maintenance Man: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An entertaining, spicy read	This is my first book by this author.  In sum I'd say it's a fast, entertaining read. I was shocked at some of the &quot;goings-on&quot; in the book, but that added to its spice.  I read it, while the whole time thinking, &quot;hmmm...so this is how a man thinks.&quot;  From that perspective, it was interesting as well.  <br />While the characters weren't very well-developed, I didn't think that took away from the story because it was a relatively short book.  So, what we were given seemed to fit the story. I was shocked a few times when the characters did or said something that I wouldn't do or didn't expect.  But it wasn't that it was  unbelievable behavior, it was just that they were things I wouldn't do.  Hey, call me conservative!<br />I did have one small pet peeve with the book -- it seemed as if all of the characters were constantly listening to some type of music that the author felt the need to bring up.  I mean, you walk into a room, he mentioned the music playing; you get into a car, he mentioned the music playing; a woman is cooking, and she's singing to the music playing!  After awhile, that became a bit much.  But aside from that small gripe, the book was amusing, entertaining, and spicy.  Because of the lack of character development, I didn't get sucked into the characters lives, but then again...I didn't want to.  I just wanted a quick, good read and I got that.	2000-10-23
US	53026413	R1Y3Y2F8G0EH40	1570428670	156360117	The Ice Limit	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Preston and Child have delivered once again.	I've read a number of Preston/Child books, and have enjoyed most of them.  This counts as one that I've enjoyed.  Although it took me a little while to get into the story, once it grabbed my attention, I was along for the ride.  Thankfully, the ride was an enjoyable one.<br />The story has the right amount of suspense, tension, adventure, and action to make this a pretty good read.  The members of the expedition had to deal with a number of tension-filled events that raised the thrill level of this book.  Their actions were reasonable, even if some of those actions got them deeper into trouble.  But heck, that added to the excitement of the read.  I didn't expect the ending that was delivered, and my first thought was the it could easily lead to a sequel.  But in any case, if you want some action and excitement, this is a book that I'd recommend.	2000-10-16
US	53026413	R3QTCNJ7AN1EXH	0736646345	446704127	Indiscretions	Books	3	1	1	N	N	An average read...	When I consider all of the good and bad books I've read, I'd have to say this one sits on the fence as an average, or slightly better than average read.<br />The premise was interesting and at certain parts of the book I listened intently to what would come next.  But what came next didn't have the &quot;bang&quot; that would have made this story great.  For example, at one point in the story, one character finds out that he's being used by another character. You would expect fireworks, a strong confrontation, something.  A confrontation does come, but it's later on and by that point, the tension from the earlier revelation has somewhat dissipated and the confrontation lacks some of its luster.<br />Don't get me wrong, the book has its good points.  For example, the characters were likeable and they played their parts well. And the book read like a page out of someone's life -- which added to the realism of the characters. The plot moved along at a pace that fit the story, the dialogue was good, and I even liked the ending.  If the pay-off for the rising tension had had a little more excitement, this book could have been a winner. But it didn't, and so it's not. It's still a decent read though.	2000-10-16
US	53026413	R2W02HPA1VBO7A	038081093X	604551094	Excavation	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A great book	Okay, my first impression: this is a great book.  My second, although it's good, the first, Subterranean, is still better.  <br />The book is pretty faced past, has a lot of action and a lot going on.  Thankfully, just about every bit of it was interesting.  The character development is good too.  In fact, it's so good that I wished I could slap the nose off of one of the characters. But, since it's a book, I couldn't.  <br />Aside from action, the book has some romance -- which makes sense and fits well within the book, and suspense.  The scenes are vividly described and the dialog is good.  It's easy to imagine yourself running along side the characters as they strive to get out of each bad situation.  While I still prefer the first book, it's not by much.  This is a darned good second book for any author to have written.  I recommend it.	2000-09-23
US	53026413	RQILQ9OKA0HO9	1561007714	848065303	Haven	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A good spy thriller...	This was my first Maxim book, but it won't be my last.<br />This story had a  nice tight plot that answered all questions posed in the beginning. The  opening scene set up the reasons and plausibility of the events to follow.  By the end of the opening scene, I knew who I wanted to see &quot;get  it&quot; in the story. <br />The author drops information about the characters  throughout the story that makes the motivations behind their actions very  easy to understand. They were very likeable and real, and aptly described.  In fact, there's one character in the book that I wanted to  &quot;shake&quot; in order to make them understand that he/she should learn  to listen.  But since it's a character in a book, I settled for some  mumbling under my breath.  <br />The scenes were well described too; that  includes the action scenes as well as the more emotional scenes that tended  to provide insight into the characters' lives.  There's a pretty good  balance of both, which went a long way in helping character development.   And the descriptions were good enough to allow you to &quot;see&quot; the  action as it was going on.  In one scene, I felt as if I were down at the  waterfront viewing the events as they happened.  This happens a lot in the  book.  The dialog was also good and appropriate.<br />The pace changes  according to the events in the book.  But in any case, the pace was  appropriate.  The action scenes read faster and the character-building  scenes a little slower.  However, the book didn't &quot;drag&quot; at all,  which would have quickly lost my attention.<br />While I would have preferred  a different ending, the one provided is understandable.  Would I recommend  this book?  Yes.  It's a darn good read and worth your time and money.	2000-09-18
US	53026413	R17AAAULI6CPQ0	1572701412	322793700	Greygallows	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Slow, but interesting...	This was my first Barbara Michaels book.  Imagine my surprise when I  realized that the &quot;historical romance&quot; I thought I'd purchased  turned out to be something different. ...What is this Gothic?  Nonetheless,  I continued to listen and I'm glad I did.  <br />Although the pace of this  book is a tad slow, the book isn't filled with action, and it was on the  &quot;dark&quot; side, I did find the portrayal of a woman's life during  the 19th century to be rather interesting.  I also enjoyed the plot.  In  addition, the book provides a very good feel for how dependent a woman of  that time's life was upon her husband's desire and ability to take care of  her, and how helpless she is if he decides not to do so.  A dreary prospect  at best.  The scenes are described in sufficient detail to allow you to  visualize the time, place, and events.  And while Lucy got on my nerves  with some of her simpering weaknesses, I nonetheless liked her.  <br />I had  most of the mystery figured out before the end, but I'm pleased to report  that the author did throw in a little information here and there that had  me questioning my conclusions.  The ending, appropriately, wrapped up all  of the details tying everything together and filling in gaps on my  conclusion.  <br />I must admit, I might not have finished the book if it  hadn't been on audiotape.  That's primarily because of it's slow pace.  On  the other hand, I'd still recommend it if (1)you like Gothic novels (with  good plots) that flow at a &quot;leisurely&quot; pace, or (2) if you want  to try something different on tape.  On tape, it is worth listening to.   (Just don't buy hardback.)	2000-09-13
US	53026413	R2DCAWC9397FA0	1587880105	145563216	Faith of the Fallen (Sword of Truth, Book 6)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Sorry, but even though I'm a fan, I'm disappointed...	First, let me say that I almost didn't write this review because the  reader from Willow Grove, PA almost said it all for me.  (That person  enjoyed the storyline a little more than I did.)  In any case, don't miss  that review.  <br />I have thoroughly enjoyed the Sword of Truth series.  I  even liked the last book, even though I first had to get used to it and  that reader.  This book however, was a little hard to get into.  Basically,  I found it to be a little too preachy.  Not only that, it seems geared  towards preteens and teenagers since it's basically a dissertation on  values and principles barely hidden under the guise of fiction.  In  addition, the story seems to be getting a little stale.  Some of the plots  and subplots from preceding books are repeated here.  I s'pose I expected  something more.<br />The book did have it's good points though.  But, I almost  didn't discover those because I had to struggle my way through it because  of the reader.  If I might now quote the reviewer from Willow Grove who so  superbly captured my thoughts...  As the Willow Grove reader states:  &quot;The audio version however greatly diappoints in it's delivery. The  excellence found in [the] reader of the first two books and the fourth  books are gone. It's as if the reader of this book did not listen to the  prior audio versions at all to get a sense of the personalities and vocal  traits of the characters. Zed has completely lost his thin and engaging  voice and the way he seemed still full of life ,vitality and mischief are  gone completely. He now sounds like some senior citizen who has lost most  of his teeth and is about to suffer a stroke at any moment.&quot;  To that  precise, on-point, accurate (you get my drift) summation, I'll say,  &quot;Amen.&quot;  The reader has Zed sounding so &quot;old&quot; that I  almost did expect him to slip on the banana peel and keel over at any  minute.  I too listen to books to lessen the frustration of rush-hour  traffic, but this book didn't help at all.  I had to force myself to put it  in the cassette player. Granted, Dick Hill is a VERY hard act to follow as  a reader, but this reader does absolutely NO justice to the story.<br />To sum  up though, disappointed or not, I'll still read the next installment of  this series.  In hopes that (1) the story line has improved somewhat and  doesn't seem geared towards teens only, and (2) they find another, more  engaging reader.	2000-09-08
US	53026413	R2MY8IPMGVF9IZ	1567404324	550733810	Gideon	Books	4	0	1	N	N	An Engrossing Read...	It took a few minutes for me to get into this book, but after that, I was  hooked until the end.  If you're looking for a book with a story, a book  with a little romance, a book with a lot of action, and you don't mind some  murder and mayhem, then this is the book for you. <br />The storyline was  good.  As I read, I tried to figure out what was going on along with the  main character.  I was just as confused as he was until almost at the end.   The romance was just right.  I don't care for books where the characters  claim to be in love a day or two after meeting, and thankfully, none of  that was happening here.  There was romance, but it was more realistic and  nicely paced.  And speaking of pace, the book moved along at a nice little  clip.  There was always something going on, and that something was usually  pretty darned interesting.  <br />The scenes, though not described in any  great detail, were described well enough to give you a sense of the  characters' surroundings.  The book ranked a &quot;4&quot; only because I  thought the very end of the book was a little drawn out and preachy.  Not  bad, but not necessary in my opinion. In sum, I found this to be an  engrossing and enjoyable read and one that I would recommend.	2000-08-21
US	53026413	R1JT2YE5Y4MT9N	156431104X	145088906	Walkers of the Wind	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Good, but not the best of the series...	Okay, I liked this book, but not as much as the first three in the &quot;The First American&quot; series.  I'll start with the bad first.<br />What I didn't like was the seeming inability of Manaravak (one of  Torka's sons) to come to grips with who and what he actually is.  Because  of this, he made mistakes that cost his people dearly.  I also didn't like  the actions of one of the young women in the tribe, and the fact that she  was able to get away with things for so long.  And while her actions did  add to the tension in the story, I had hoped for a different  resolution.<br />Also, a couple of scenes require a stretch of your  imagination to believe that such a thing could happen.  That I didn't like  because it almost transformed the book from an historical adventure to  something bordering on fantasy.  But since it was a small part, it didn't  do much damage.<br />Now on to what I did like.  For one thing, the pace was  good.  Events moved along at a pretty fast clip that left little room for  boredom.  And the setting and action was described with sufficient detail  to give you a clear picture of what's going on.<br />The book read like a true  adventure story -- there was always something happening that usually  involved danger and required a struggle and courage.  The plot was also  pretty good. <br />I would recommend this book to all readers, and  especially  to those who've started on the series.  It is a good book and it's still  interesting to see how these characters lives are still being shaped.	2000-05-26
US	53026413	R20QNWGV407J77	0441003745	132449687	Bloody Bones (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Bummer...This one isn't as good as the others...	Well, let me get right to the point.  I've thoroughly enjoyed all of the previous books in this series up until now.  While this book was good, it lacked &quot;something&quot; that the others had.  As a result, I didn't enjoy it as much.  <br />Don't get me wrong, it's still good, but the story  seemed to drag on a tad longer than it had to.  In fact, at the very end, I  started skipping paragraphs (notice I DIDN'T say pages) just so I could  finish it.<br />The characterization is good, as always, and the plot was  interesting.  The action sequences were also good, if a little gory.  I  even enjoyed the introduction of a new type of &quot;monster&quot; that we  can look forward to in future books.  But even with all that, the book  lacked the &quot;umph&quot; that the previous books have.  <br />Maybe it's  because I like Jean Claude and he didn't have as big a role in this book as  in previous ones.  Or maybe it was the lack of tension between Jean Claude  and Richard, Ms. Blake's other beau.  Whatever it was, it's missing.  <br />Would I recommend the book?  Yes, because it's part of one of the best  vampire series that I've ever read.  Besides that, it held my interest from  beginning to end.  Ms. Hamilton has an easy writing style that I like, and  her books are always interesting.  And besides, if this is as  &quot;bad&quot; as it gets in this series, then we're still in luck because  the author is good and she knows how to keep your interest.	2000-05-04
US	53026413	R1BOUXRRL3NCTF	1570426619	210194816	The Lion's Game	Books	4	3	3	N	N	I chuckled my way through it...	If you're looking for an entertaining read, then this is the book for you.  While not fast paced --getting to know the characters and following them in their daily activities slowed the book down -- the book is nonetheless darned good.  In most books, the daily activities of characters can be  pretty boring.  Not so here.  What wards off boredom is the interaction  between the characters and the healthy dose of humor that's sprinkled  liberally throughout the novel.  Corey has a sarcastic sense of humor that  kept a smile on my face.  But there is a downside to some of the humor.  In  some instances, he makes jokes or wise-cracks at the expense of Arabs and  Muslims.  In fact, some of the comments surprised me because they seemed so  -- for lack of a better word -- racist.  Therefore, I agree with another  reviewer who noted that, for that reason, this book might be offensive to  some.<br />But back to its good points: the main characters were  well-developed and interesting.  Even the bad guy.  The action scenes  seemed realistic and the dialog was great.  This author has a laid back  writing style that is very easy to read. And the peek into the  inner-workings of the government-backed investigation of the terrorist, and  the clearly plausible reason behind the attacks makes for good reading. And  even though the book does have a fair bit of humor, the plot deals with the  serious issue of terrorism.  The grave nature and dangers associated with  terrorism come through loud and clear with horrific results. <br />The  obligatory romance plot seemed a little rushed, meaning that nowadays  characters in books seem to fall in love VERY easily.  But, it did add for  some added tension and entertainment.<br />In sum, I liked the book and almost  rated it higher.  What stopped me was the racist comments.  While I'm  ashamed to say I found some of them funny, I know that had it been my  ethnic background under attack, I wouldn't have appreciated it one bit.	2000-05-03
US	53026413	R34F57RW3TMPEM	1561007986	264170645	Vulcan's Forge (Philip Mercer)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	It had its ups and downs...	Overall this was a good book. The humor was refreshing and timely, the action was decent, and the characters were interesting.  But the book wasn't very balanced.  Some parts were much better than others.  But it  nonetheless, kept my interest 'till the end.  <br />Because I think the author  has promise, and because the sequel has received higher ratings than this  book, I do plan to read it as well.  I would recommend the book but only if  you're checking it out from the library.	2000-04-17
US	53026413	R2MJL41KU41Y9W	0553478605	69307456	Meg	Books	4	8	10	N	N	A  fast, thrilling ride...	Okay, so what if this book reads like a Jaws movie?  It was still good, and the plot twists made it interesting.  Not only that, it was a fast-paced read that had a lot of excitement.  Needless to say, I enjoyed  this book more than I'd expected to.  <br />What did I like you ask?  Well to  begin with, the book started off with interesting events -- and interesting  people -- and continued on in that same vein.  The characters didn't have a  whole lot of depth, but they had enough to carry this story through to the  end.  The interactions between the characters made for one subplot while  the prehistoric shark made for another.  Both were interesting.<br />The  descriptions of under water surroundings was good enough to make me feel as  if I were there worrying about pressurizing correctly as I ascended from  the dark depths.  And the action was so good that a few times I found  myself holding my breath as I waited to hear what would happen next.   <br />I'll admit that one predicament that a character found himself in makes  you stretch your imagination almost to the breaking point, but it was  darned interesting to see how he got himself out of that situation  nonetheless.<br />If you're looking for a literary masterpiece, this  &quot;ain't&quot; the book for you.  If you're looking for a quick rush  from an entertaining read, then this is it.  <br />I've got to go now.  I've  got to order the sequel.	2000-04-11
US	53026413	R2ZIW8OOLA3AM3	1564144410	834467477	Powerful Planning Skills	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Excellent guidance in a concise format!	I was just placed in charge of a large project and I was looking for a book that would give me some level of comfort that I was on the right track in planning what needs to be done.  This book delivered exactly what I  needed.  <br />The book addresses different types of planning -- such as  strategic, tactical, personal, etc., and steps you through the basics of  developing a sound plan -- from defining your purpose or your goal to  setting objectives, on through implementing your plan.  <br />The book not  only tells you what you need to do, but it tells you how you need to do it.   It does this by providing a list of questions you should ask yourself  about your project as you move from one phase of planning through to the  end. There's also a case study that you follow from beginning to end to  make sure you understand the concepts and the impact good planning has on  achieving your goals. <br />You're given the information you need without  having to wade through hundreds of pages of boring text to find it.   Everything you need to know is provided in an easy to read concise  format.<br />I highly recommend this book if you want to make sure you're  developing a thorough plan that will lead you to success.	2000-04-09
US	53026413	R9Z540DH7YH1P	0553287400	943800622	The Assassini	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Started off good, but kind of fizzled...	I was pleasantly surprised when I started listening to this book. Quite frankly, the story was better than I had expected. There was good action, the hint of romance (that never came to fruition -- which was okay), and  suspense.  However, after awhile, the story seemed to get bogged down in  historical details and lost some of its momentum.  By the time I reached  the ending, which by the way was pretty good, I'd lost some of my interest  in the book.  But overall, I'd say the book was a cut above average, but it  could have been better.  (Abridged audiobook version)	2000-04-01
US	53026413	R1LBDSMFH3XYPS	0671582585	893598378	Fountain Society	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A very entertaining read...	To sum up my review, this was a pretty good book.  It's full of action, romance, genius, insanity, a little science, suspense, and danger.  It's the type of book you read when you want to leave your every day life behind  -- for a brief period in time -- and be swept away on a fast-paced,  exciting ride.  <br />The characters, while lacking in depth, had enough  &quot;meat&quot; on them to do what they were supposed to do -- make the  story work.  And that, they did.  <br />The story, while not plausible at this  point in time, was very interesting. And, there's more than one  &quot;science&quot; project going on and an unexpected plot twist, which  made the story even better.  <br />The bottom line is, I'd recommend the book  and I'm looking forward to Wes Craven's next.	2000-03-27
US	53026413	R3G8I56K0N00J4	0671582615	562966780	Now You See Her	Books	2	4	9	N	N	Not that good...	This is my second Linda Howard book.  The first was All the Queen's Men, which I thoroughly enjoyed.  But this second foray into her world was not as good.<br />To begin with, I don't much care for helpless females unless I'm  reading an historical romance.  So in a contemporary story, I find the  helpless female role a little hard to swallow.  As a result, while I didn't  dislike the female character, I didn't really like her either.<br />The  romance seemed a little juvenile and rushed, and I found it hard to believe  they fell for each other so quickly -- under the circumstances. Especially  since both were wary about romantic relationships.  By describing the  romance as &quot;juvenile&quot; I mean that the book read like it was  geared more towards YOUNG women in their late teens or early 20s, as  opposed to women a little older (30ish).  But in fairness, the abridgement  of the audiobook version that I was listening to could have cut out some  parts that could have made the romance more believable to me (but I doubt  less juvenile).<br />Aside from that, the mystery itself lacked excitement.   The story read like an old movie that I'd seen a long time ago.  Because  the storyline didn't have any fresh ideas in it, that old time-weary story  didn't work well for me.<br />While I didn't care for this book and would not  recommend it, I haven't given up on the author.  Before purchasing this  book, I had also purchased Dream Man -- which has received great reviews.   I'll hold my judgment on the author until I've read that book.	2000-03-22
US	53026413	R3NY3PA6Y9ZQHX	0787119679	896256339	Cuba	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A ho-hum thriller...	This story started off with promise, but didn't live up to my expectations.  While the story premise was interesting, as were some of the scenes, I thought that the book lacked the excitement I was expecting.   Especially since it referred to Jake Grafton as if he were really going  &quot;to do something&quot; in the book.  While I'm not an avid (or  regular) reader of Coonts, the synopsis on the back of the book led me to  expect fireworks, but what I got was a small sparkler. <br />An okay read, but  I'd recommend you borrow it from the library instead of purchasing it.	2000-03-22
US	53026413	R230KUL6J5S3WR	1564311031	850410750	Forbidden Land	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Another great book in this series!	After reading the first book in this series, I immediately purchased the next three.  The books are so good that I've been pacing my reading...I'll read one, then read something by another author or two and then read  another.  Why? Because I hate for the story to come to an end.  <br />This  book, like the previous two I've read, is very good.  This author has an  incredible ability to &quot;paint&quot; a picture of the characters and  scenery that almost makes you believe you're there.  You can almost feel  the biting winter winds, as the characters trudge through the snow in  search of food and shelter.  You feel their pain and despair as they find  themselves faced with cruelty from other people and danger from the  elements and animals they hunt to live.  <br />By the time you finish with the  first of these books, you'll feel as if Torka and Lonit and the host of  other characters are old friends.<br />And to make things even better, the  author leaves you no time to get bored because there's always something  going on...both good and bad.  <br />Even though this type of novel  (historical) is not the typical type of book I read, this series has left  me hungering for more books covering this time period, or at a minimum,  other authors with the writing talent that Sarabande has.	2000-03-22
US	53026413	R3POC1BXU3B7MA	0787111155	515786853	Manhattan Nocturne	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Okay so it's not the best, but it ain't bad!	I listened to an abridged audiotape of this book and liked it from the beginning. The narrator was good and gave the story a kind of grittiness that makes you think of dark, foggy nights and footsteps in the dark. I  found it very easy to visualize the scenes. <br />The story was interesting  (but not engrossing), and I liked the author's 'style.' I found myself  reading on because I wanted to figure out what the woman's motivations  were, and how far the reporter would go to help her (and himself) out. The  author is a very &quot;frank&quot; writer (having the characters say  whatever was on their minds) -- which surprised me, but didn't turn me off.  <br />The story was good but not as engrossing as I expected due to the  narration and author's style. Meaning, this sounded like a book that would  grab you from the start and keep you on the edge of your seat, but it  wasn't. It did grab me from the start, but it wasn't suspenseful or  thrilling enough to have me on the edge of my seat.  But I did finish  it.<br />The ending was okay and the 'wrap-up' reminded me of the old  detective noir stories. Again, the ending didn't lead up to a big bang full  of excitement, but it wasn't bad.  It kind of slowly unfolded before you  with all the loose ends being wrapped up and tied together. I would  recommend the book but only in an audiotape version. Had I been reading it  visually, I don't know that I would have gotten through it so quickly. But  on audio, it was a nice 'read.'	2000-03-14
US	53026413	R2UROVV4T3YR5U	0787118001	997279820	Everybody Dies	Books	4	3	3	N	N	My intro to Scudder...	This was my first Matthew Scudder book and it  won't be my last.  This book read like a gritty, back alley story filled with tough guys.  The story was good and the book moved along at a nice little clip, leaving you no time to get bored.  Besides that, the various things going on left no  room for boredom. <br />The charcters were well developed and likeable.  Even  when they were doing things that should make you not like them.  Rather  than bore you with chunks of narrative, the author has the characters talk  a lot, providing you with the details you need about the characters and  what's happening at that moment.  The use of the dialogue in this manner  was great because not only did it move the scenes forward quickly, but it  also makes you feel as if you're in the room, the car, or whatever with the  guys as they talk.  In addition, the action scenes are very well described,  and pretty darned good.<br />In sum, I found this to be a pretty good book.   One that intrigued me enough to have me looking for other Matthew Scudder  novels.	2000-03-05
US	53026413	R1UJWINYA9Y668	067104561X	781227321	All The Queen's Men	Books	4	6	7	N	N	I liked it!	I'd never read Linda Howard before, but decided to try this book after reading a few reviews.  I very much enjoyed it.  I really didn't know what to expect so reading a romantic thriller was a pleasant surprise. <br />I must  admit, it doesn't seem as if &quot;thriller&quot; writing is this author's  strong point, but that's only because the book lacked the &quot;hard  edge&quot; that a lot of thrillers have.  But that's not to say it doesn't  work.  It does.  However, the author's strength is in her romance writing.   She created a romantic tension between John and Niemi that just about had  me swooning.  And to top it off, I was pleasantly surprised (okay, shocked)  at the sensuality of some of the romantic scenes.  The two genres together  made for an entertaining good read.<br />The characters were great too -- John  Medina is strength personified.  He's all man and he's strictly business,  with one exception -- Niemi.  Not only that, he has some very creative ways  to get them out of a jam.  Niemi, on the other hand, loves the excitement  of undercover work, but she's not too sure about her feelings for John, or  any man for that matter.  She'll soon find out.<br />The plot is good, the  setting is varied, and the pace is fast.  Bottom line, I enjoyed the book  and would recommend it.	2000-02-17
US	53026413	R3IVXV2HVHBXP5	0394298292	735071490	How to Start a Conversation	Books	3	11	13	N	N	Short, but includes some good tips...	While I can only imagine how much good information I missed by listening to the abridged version of this book, I nonetheless appreciated its brevity since I listened to it during the drive to work. <br />I agree with the other  readers that this book seems geared more towards the &quot;pick-up&quot;  than business situations, but I did get a few good tips out of it.  I  actually used these &quot;tips&quot; when I arrived at work and was  pleasantly surprised at the responses I received.  <br />In essence, what this  book offers is common sense tips that you probably already know, but just  haven't yet internalized.  Once you accept and use them, you'll recognize  their value.  <br />Because the audiobook is so brief, I too would recommend  buying the book and reading it as opposed to listening to it.  But if you  really don't have the time to read, you can pick up a few good tips while  listening.	2000-02-11
US	53026413	R1M04WXGQKF1P0	156740460X	806991329	Train Man (Bookcassette Adapter Required)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Yawn...	From my one-liner above, it's a tad obvious that I wasn't too crazy about this book.  But I have the give the author credit for his knowledge of trains.  I now know more about trains than I'd ever want to in this  lifetime, but at least it shows Deutermann did his homework.  <br />However  this homework is exactly what made the book a yawner for me.  Being no big  fan of trains, I quickly tired of hearing the details surrounding trains  and train operations.  Some of it was interesting, but after awhile, it  became a little too much. <br />The characters, were likeable, but not as much  as some of the characters in other books by this author.  However the  dialog was good, as were the personality distinctions and the tight  situations that the characters had get themselves out of.  <br />The plot was  plausible and in truth, the ingenious ways that the criminal element  carried out their misdeeds did add a little spice to the book.  There was  also a little suspense as you wondered who would win the final battle of  wits.   <br />...Seems like if there's a woman and a man working together in  novels these days, they have to have a relationship.  They did.  But the  romance seemed a little forced since I don't know if people who find  themselves dealing with the issues these characters dealt with would want  to have a relationship.  <br />If you have any interest in trains, you'll  likely love this book.  If you don't, you might still like it because there  is a story there, and there is some excitement.  But it's not a book I'd  recommend primarily because of ...you guessed it...too much info on trains.   However, because I've enjoyed other books by this author, I'll be in line  with other book lovers if his next book covers a subject that I find of  more interest.	2000-02-09
US	53026413	R1F1OTOXP2WJ0U	0345417062	746275344	Witch Fire (The Banned and the Banished, Book 1)	Books	5	35	37	N	N	Creativity at it's best!	After reading Subterranean by James Rollins (an alias for this author) and also an excellent read, I was hungry for another book by him.  Therefore, I was very excited when I found this book -- even though they're of different  genres.  It lived up to my expectations.<br />I must admit, while reading the  first several pages, I was doubtful that this book would be good, but I  kept reading, and I'm very happy I did.  <br />The plot is complex but good;  everything fits together nicely.  The author weaves the story with several  very different and very interesting characters.  Some you'll like, some you  won't, and some you'll want to hate but you'll feel sorry for instead.   Despite the fact that there are a number of characters to follow, I found  it easy to follow the story and distinguish them.  A tribute to Clemens'  ability to create distinct characters.  <br />If you can make it through the  first several pages of the book, then you're in for a real treat.  The  action starts and doesn't let up until the end, and the pace will leave you  breathless.  The characters must face and outsmart or fight a variety of  different creatures in order to live.  The battles are interesting and  vividly described.  And just when you think it's over, something else  happens.  By the time I reached the end of the book I was desperate for the  more.  But alas, I'll have to wait until it's published.  It's definitely  on my &quot;to buy&quot; list.	2000-02-08
US	53026413	R1VXS9PJYPSD7K	1561004758	807397831	Mars	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not a page-turner, but decent nonetheless	An interesting read. The characters were well-defined and the plot was good, but it was no page-turner, or nail-biting read.  The book focuses more on character development and interaction, rather than action.  Don't  get me wrong, the interaction was interesting, but if you're expecting  action, this isn't the book for you.	2000-02-01
US	53026413	R2NWXY6XMZEZ2V	1570427704	194746957	Saving Faith	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Better than expected.	Based on some of the readers' reviews, I got this book with lowered expectations, and in hopes that I wasn't wasting my money.  I didn't.  I thoroughly enjoyed the book.  More specifically, I liked the characters,  the plot, and the pace.  The surprises were nice too -- since not all of  the bad guys are obvious.  <br />Further, this *inside* look at what could be  going on in the political arena was intriguing.  Frankly, I found the story  rather plausible.  <br />The bottom line is, I enjoyed it and would recommend  it to a friend.	2000-01-31
US	53026413	RRGKY4OY5OCMK	044017161X	869765562	The Raven and the Rose	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Better than the typical historical romance...	I love historical romance novels and I picked up this book expecting a good read.  I got that and more.  The plot felt a little rushed at times, but nonetheless, made for a very interesting book.  <br />The characters were  likeable although Roseanna is extremely vain and headstrong.  Ravenspur on  the other hand is strong and determined to win her love, but willing to do  so patiently.  <br />They deal with the typical issues you find in an  historical romance novel, such as first fighting any feelings for each  other and then one having to wait patiently for the other to realize  they're in love.  But they also deal with issues that I'd never expected to  see written about in an historical novel.  These additional issues added  spice, danger, and tension and made the book even more interesting.  <br />And  just when you think all is well and you're going to read about a happy  ending, something else happens.  <br />I very much enjoyed this book and would  definitely recommend it to any who like this genre.	2000-01-30
US	53026413	R3P52VMMOZDIA	034542140X	650855649	The Tenth Planet (Book 1)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Average read at best...	I enjoyed the book, but thought the pace was a little slow.  Maybe that's because nothing really happened with the aliens until the latter quarter of the book.  However, the plot was believable and the characters were  likeable.  <br />The end of the book was a surprise since it is nothing more  than a cliff-hanger that's intended to get you to buy the next book.  The  authors may as well have extended the book and written in a true ending.  I  can't see them creating a whole new book based on the events of the cliff  hanger.  But I suppose they will.	2000-01-16
US	53026413	RR9TBZ5C27ULS	1567400981	523633033	Inner City Blues	Books	2	4	9	N	N	Fell short of my expectations...	I picked this book up with high expectations.  Unfortunately those expectations were dashed.  While this book was a decent read, it is not a book I'd recommend. The primary reason is its slow pace. The main plot was  interesting -- the police procedural side of the story, the subplots --  dealing in romance, etc. were not.  While there was a small bit of action  and alot of investigative activity, there was no excitement or tension  associated with it. The book just plodded along spouting out one boring  detail after another about the characters' dreary lives. It got so bad that  I began daydreaming towards the end of the book (on the last tape) and I  missed how the villain arrived on the scene for one last try at eliminating  anyone that could reveal his/her identity. The sad thing is, I didn't care  enough to rewind the tape to listen and find out. I was just glad for the  book to end.  The author has potential, but this is not a book I'd  recommend.	2000-01-14
US	53026413	R1S2TG7LE9TI1Y	1561006866	666062148	Mount Dragon	Books	3	1	4	N	N	So-so story.  They've done better	This book was a tad dry for my taste.  There was a little too much focus on chemistry for my taste so unfortunately, those parts of the book -- which were significant -- bored me.  The book does have it good points --  some of the characters are interesting, and some of the scenes keep your  attention, but in sum, it all adds up to an average read.  These authors  have done better.	2000-01-01
US	53026413	RKW9Z3DO7CJJC	0446362921	435639438	The Covenant of the Flame	Books	2	13	15	N	N	Decent plot; juvenile dialog	I give the author credit for a decent plot, but what could have been a great story, wasn't.  The book missed the mark, in my opinion, for three reasons.  First, the dialog, at times, was a little too juvenile.  The  dialog read like a mistake that a first time novelist would make--phony,  stilted, just plain unreal.  The second problem involved the contrived  romances.  While I'm not sure whether or not I believe in love at first  sight, I am sure that having it occur twice in one book is a bit much.  I  got the feeling that that romances were thrown in to explain why a  particular character would go to the lengths he/she did to help out  another.  Finally, while parts of a mystery were revealed to one of the  characters, the author made comments like, she felt as if she were going  insane, etc.  I'm sorry, based on what was happening at the time and what  the character had been through, going insane at those particular moments  just seemed unbelievable at best.  <br />As mentioned, the story was okay, but  had I been reading the book rather than listening to the unabridged audio  book version, I don't know if I could have made it to the end.  Sorry, this  is one Morrell book I can't recommend.	2000-01-01
US	53026413	R11V0V3Z0B58DX	1555832687	884797725	B-Boy Blues (A B-Boy Blues Novel #1)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	A funny, sexy romance story....	Having never read gay literature, I didn't know what to expect when I picked up this book.  Luckily, I was pleasantly surprised.  The story was good. <br />I occasionally read romance novels, and this book followed the  same premise as those with the exception that the characters in the  relationships are men.  And although I'm a straight female, I found myself  hurting when they hurt, laughing when they did, and hoping for a happy  ending.  Unexpectedly, after reading this book I came away with a deeper  understanding of some of the issues gay black men have to deal with.  I  also came away with more respect for them -- mind you, not that I didn't  respect them in the first place.  I just understand a little more.     <br />Parts of the story -- although very few parts, seemed unnecessary. Such  as some of the descriptions of events that happen in daily life that  weren't overly interesting, and the amount of cussing that went on.   However, the humor in the book made up for any downsides to it.  All in  all, this was a good book.	1999-12-31
US	53026413	R216GWU4I2V2WH	0440129737	54472670	Golden Surrender	Books	4	24	30	N	N	An enjoyable romantic read...	This mixture of romance, history, and war turned out to be a very good historical romance.  The two main characters, Erin and Olaf, are both strong-willed, proud and stubborn which made for some interesting feuding  from the very beginning.  The author fleshed them out enough to make you  care about them, and like them both.  <br />Aside from the romance, which was  very good, there were also some pretty interesting battle scenes as war  raged on between the Vikings and the Irish.  (Don't worry, these scenes  aren't overlong.)  The author did a good job of conveying the pride and  dignity of both sides in the warring.  <br />I must admit I was slightly  irritated by a few things Erin did, but I quickly overcame my irritation  because of the interesting way that the situations were resolved.  This  irritation was also overshadowed by some of the admirable actions that Olaf  took.<br />In sum, if you like historical romances, this is a book worth  reading.	1999-12-27
US	53026413	R2LD5424F0SX3	0787117889	358551426	Backflash	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A satisfying read...	This was my first Richard Stark book and it was worth the money.  Parker's gritty, matter-of-fact way of looking at life and doing things made for an interesting character.  And the way Stark tells the story, you feel as if  you're an eaves-dropper to events going on -- in other words, you feel as  if you're there.  I appreciated the fact that Parker had a good side, as  well as the bad.  But Parker didn't let the good side take over his common  sense when his life was at stake.  He does what has to be done, like it or  not.  In sum, the plot was good and believable.  The actions and events  that unfolded were interesting, well-thought out and plausible, and the  characters seemed real.  The book had just enough action and suspense to  keep your interest, and a good enough story to tie it all together.  The  book gets my recommendation.	1999-12-24
US	53026413	R3KDJDV7665AQG	1561005789	317662313	Going Nowhere Fast	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A tongue-in-cheek, cutesy novel...	Based on the reviews, I expected to read an excitement filled, humorous novel.  The humor was there -- to some degree, but the excitement wasn't.  It was a decent read, but it's not one I could pick up again.	1999-12-17
US	53026413	RIZIG1J34OAAH	1567404618	998314402	Millennium Rising	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A thinking book...	For the most part, I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  There was a good bit of action and/or suspense throughout most of the book.  When the action/suspense started -- which was early in the book, it kept going.   <br />There were a number of different characters -- each with their own  issues, but to the author's credit, they were easy to keep track of.  In  addition, I appreciated the fact that the characters were not one  dimensional nor all of the same race.  That tended to add a little spice to  the book because you're looking at things from their perspectives.  The  &quot;detective&quot; work carried out by some of the characters was  interesting both in what they discovered and the sense of danger they were  in as they carried out their activities.  <br />The descriptions of events  were good enough to allow you &quot;see&quot; what was happening and wonder  what in the heck you'd do under the same circumstances.  The religious  aspects of the book will have you taking a look at where you stand in life.   The book didn't rank 5 stars simply because the end of the book tended to  drag a little and sound a tad preachy.  But in sum, this was a pretty good  read.	1999-12-06
US	53026413	R2B1CP41W7JSD7	1568760620	987019294	Mother of God	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Ho-hum...	This was an average book at best.  The plot was decent but I couldn't get into the characters.  I didn't particularly care what happened to them.  The parts of the book that were supposed to be suspenseful or full of  tension, weren't.  This was a decent try by the author but the book does  not live up to positive reviews.  To be fair, I must note that I haven't  given up on the author.  I've recently purchased the book  &quot;Superstition&quot; and hope that it will be better.	1999-11-29
US	53026413	R1RZ8BHBB39SP6	1564311023	145405555	Corridor of Storms	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Another great read!...	It's wonderful when an author can create a sequel that's just as good as the first book in a series.  This is one of those occasions.  This book picks up where the first left off and thankfully is just as good. Like the  first book, this story is full of drama, adventure, and excitement. The  characters grow as they learn from their experiences, and new characters  add more interest and plot twists.  I'd recommend this book -- even if you  don't typically read this type of fiction.  It's that good.	1999-11-26
US	53026413	R2NT0NYYS8O8Z9	0312866526	819603580	Waiting	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Doesn't live up to the hype...	A decent story, but the book does not live up to the hype.  The story premise was interesting, but the book fell short in delivering what could have been an excellent novel.  While the book had its good points, some of  the character building information tended to bog the story down instead of  enhance it.  An average book in my opinion.  (unabridged audiobook version)	1999-11-26
US	53026413	R1XUJS8GAQX6I3	1567404103	515249324	Angels Flight (Harry Bosch)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Very good mystery...	I typically like books with a lot of action, and in fact had just finished listening to one when I settled down with this book.  I must admit that during the first few minutes of the book (I listened to the unabridged  audiobook version) I was hoping for more action.  But then I was sucked in  by the storyline and from that point forward I was along for the ride of  what turned out to be a darned good mystery story.  Not one part of this  book bored me or seemed to move too slow.  The pace was excellent, the  clues and details were revealed at the appropriate times, and the  development of the characters and the issues they were dealing all fit  together perfectly.  And when I thought I had everything all figured out,  the author still had a few surprises left.  This book is how a good mystery  should be written. I highly recommend it.	1999-11-26
US	53026413	R1SP5WCREQ0Q4C	0312157916	151456505	Birds of Prey	Books	5	8	10	N	N	The Best Adventure Story I've Ever Read!	This was my first Smith book, but not my last. In the past I'd never read this type of book -- dealing with sailors (unless of course they were in an historical romance novel), but I decided to give it a try.  It was one of  the best decisions I ever made.  This book has it all -- action, adventure,  romance, some sorrow, loyalty, you name it.  The characters are very well  developed so that you come to know and care about them.  The loyalty  between some characters and what they would do for each other brought me to  tears.  The plot twists and turns in such a delightful manner that you  never want to the book to end.  But when it does, don't despair -- just  pick up Monsoon -- the sequel.  You won't be disappointed!	1999-11-23
US	53026413	R15FGRECIIZG3T	078711975X	132522712	Monsoon	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Excellent sequel to Birds of Prey!	I was hesitant to read this book because I didn't think that Smith could outdo Birds of Prey.  I was pleasantly surprised to find out that he could and did with Monsoon.  This is one heck of an adventure story.  There's a  little bit of everything in it -- danger, adventure, intrigue, romance, and  treachery.  And fortunately, Smith does a great job of tying it all  together into a coherent, very enjoyable story.  My only  &quot;complaint&quot; is that I thought ending was a tad rushed -- but  that's likely because I didn't want it to end.  The ending does leave an  opening for a sequel, but it's not the type of ending that leaves you  hanging.  It just leaves you wanting more.  I listened to an unabridged  audiobook version of the book, with David Case as the reader.  As usual,  Case does a good job portraying the characters and their emotions.  I  recommend the book.	1999-11-22
US	53026413	R1MGYS23974JAP	1561006971	169999951	A Gathering of Saints	Books	2	3	7	N	N	So-so story...	I bought this book based on the reviews found here, and unfortunately, I didn't enjoy it as much as the other reviewers.  I don't want to say the story was flawed in any way because it could just be that it didn't suit my  taste.  But either way, I didn't particularly enjoy it.  The best part for  me was knowing the ending was near.	1999-11-03
US	53026413	R2VM0MM0SL8Q24	1570426678	270870625	Thunderhead	Books	3	3	3	N	N	I expected more...	While the premise for the story was excellent, the story didn't live up to expectations.  After having read The Reliquary by these authors -- which I thought was excellent -- I expected a better story than what I read.  Don't  get me wrong, the story is good and it does hold your interest, but I know  the authors can do better.  Also, Subterranean by James Rollins -- another  book involving cave explorations -- is a very hard book to top and I  happened to read Rollins' book first.  I'd still recommend Thunderhead, but  as a book checked out from the library.	1999-11-02
US	53026413	R1KTUZP2RCQPZL	0399144773	103559066	Vector	Books	4	0	0	N	N	I loved it!	After reading some of the reviews on this board, I was kind of scared to start this book.  But since I'd paid for it, I knew I'd have to start sooner or later, so I decided on sooner.  I loved the book.  I enjoyed the  characters, the different places in the city that they visited, the touch  of romance, and the fast action.  Now granted I haven't ready many of Robin  Cook's books so if the plot in this book is very similar to those in his  other works, I wouldn't know.  But for me, this was one of the better books  I've listened to lately. And in fact, I've already recommended it to a  friend.	1999-10-14
US	53026413	R37KV1PKJBK9GY	1561005118	496469815	Dragonflight (Dragonriders of Pern Series)	Books	2	12	25	N	N	So-so story...	I'm sorry, but all of these 5 star ratings for this book seem a little overblown.  I purchased this book based on these reviews, and quite frankly, I was disappointed.  What was so &quot;gripping&quot; and  fascinating about this book?  Someone PLEASE explain that to me. The book  was okay at best. The characters weren't well developed and in fact, I  couldn't figure out why Lessa did some of the dumb spiteful things she did.   Nor could I figure out why F'lar cared about her. The story was not  tension-filled, gripping, or all that exciting to be honest. It was a  decent story of a group of people trying to save their world from an attack  by threads.  Unfortunately, the story was told in a lackluster manner that  elicited little emotion from me other than wanting to hurry up and complete  the book. I have to give the author credit for being creative in coming up  with the world in which these people live, but the story itself was average  at best. Would I recommend it, No.	1999-10-10
US	53026413	R3STRSSME6TOXK	0671881191	443415648	Mr. Murder	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Edge of your seat thriller...	This was a very enjoyable read, made even better by the narrator's excellent reading. It was suspenseful, creepy, and fast-paced.  I'd recommend it.	1999-10-07
US	53026413	RBLX355X8E8MV	0553526723	651225939	Sea Change	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Entertaining and fast paced...	Interesting, gory and good	1999-09-29
US	53026413	R1XR35KM3XYDUL	0787119741	3884206	Nightwatch	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A great &quot;what if...&quot; story	In brief, the book was good	1999-09-27
US	53026413	R2BY2N5Q3QMRYS	1564311015	874119024	Beyond the Sea of Ice	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Excellent read!	I typically don't read these types of books -- I'm more into thrillers, suspense, sci-fi, fantasy, and historical romances.  But I stumbled across this one while book browsing simply because the cover caught my eye.  After  checking here first for reviews -- and seeing them all positive, I decided  to give the book a try.  I'm very happy I did.  I bought the audiobook  version -- since I have little time to sit down and read for pleasure --  and I was captured by the book just minutes after it started.  The  storyline is excellent, the descriptions vivid, and the characters  likeable.  In addition, you get a sense for what it might have been like to  live during those times.  The narrator (Paul Ukena) is pretty good too. You  can't ask for much more.  <br />I agree with the other reviewers...this is a  darned good book that you won't regret reading.  I liked the book so much  that I just ordered the next three in the series -- since they're available  on tape too, and I can't wait for them to get here!	1999-09-24
US	53026413	R5MLBH6WTNHLD	0787118907	331210433	Easy Money	Books	3	1	5	N	N	Average thriller...	First let me preface my comments by saying, I listened to the abridged audio book version of this novel.  As a result, some of the good parts of this book may have been cut out.  With that said, I must admit the book  didn't do much for me. I guess I thought with more recent &quot;wars&quot;  in our history, reaching back for a Vietnam story was unnecessary.  The  main character was believable in her role, and parts of the story were  pretty good.  However overall, the story, in my opinion, was average at  best.  Would I recommend it?  Only if you've finished all of the other hot  titles on your to-be-read list.	1999-09-21
US	53026413	RNWETI3CUW9KL	1567404014	413206412	Come the Morning	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Romance with a history lesson...	This is my first Shannon Drake book, so I didn't quite know what to expect.  This book differs from other historical romances I've read, in that it reads like a &quot;story&quot; that happens to have romance as one  of the primary focal points.  It's not the typical historical romance where  the focus is on the beauty of the &quot;fair maiden,&quot; the prowess of  the male character, and their sparring matches before they realize they're  meant to be together.  Sure there's some of that here too, but there's a  story as well.  This is evidenced by the length of time it takes before the  two characters even kiss.  I guess this is more of a &quot;mature&quot;  historical romance. However, it was enjoyable enough that I'll try another  of her books.  While I still prefer the &quot;typical&quot; historical  romance, the bottom line is, would I recommend it?  The answer is yes, as  long as you don't expect a novel similar to some of Kathleen Woodiwiss'  best (and older) novels.	1999-09-20
US	53026413	R19756A58ZL8RW	0884046818	894828266	Battlefield Earth: A Saga of the Year 3000	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Good but looong....	I listened to the unabridged audiobook -- which was 30 tapes. The first half of the book was great. The story was interesting, the characters varied, and the narrator was doing a heck of a job changing voices to make  the characters sound distinct.  But by the time I got towards the end of  the book, I thought that the book could have been wrapped-up earlier  without the story suffering.  It seemed to run out of steam and was just  plodding along with a little of this and a little of that thrown in to keep  the momentum. If the book had stopped earlier, I'd have given it 4 stars.   But the long ending, in my opinion, took something away from it. However,  this was my first book by this author and I'll likely try something else of  his.  It just won't be 30 tapes long!	1999-09-18
US	53026413	R213YA2GOLO9HF	0671045687	59736501	The Descent	Books	3	0	1	N	N	So-so...	I read this book after reading Subterranean by James Rollins.  That was a mistake.  Rollins' book is a hard act to follow.  As a result, I found this book interesting but not up to the hype.	1999-09-12
US	53026413	R3JTR99CX8RKS6	0441002935	989309946	The Lunatic Cafe (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Action AND romance...great!	While I enjoyed this book a little less than the others before it, it was still a very good read.  I think the author's writing style has changed slightly and Anita Blake wasn't a &quot;sharp&quot; and witty as she normally is.  However, I loved the inclusion of romance.  It made Anita  more &quot;real.&quot; I'm looking forward to reading the next book in this  &quot;series&quot; since I purchased it at the same time that I purchased  this one, and I expect it to be just as good if not better.	1999-09-09
US	53026413	R3GOZ7U36YY4WD	0671528173	841910202	White Star	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Straight up action	This book started off with a bang and continued  on in that same vein.  It was almost one action scene after another.  Some of the scenes were a tad on the &quot;ooh gross&quot; side, but aside from that, the book was pretty  good.  Unfortunately, I listened to this book on an abridged audio tape so  a good portion of the book was cut out.  And in some cases, you could tell  where scenes were missing.  But aside from that, the book was enjoyable.	1999-09-06
US	53026413	R2G1BV69UJJ816	0671045628	118279752	Transfer of Power (CS)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An entertaining &quot;what if&quot;...	Once the action and suspense started in this book, it just kept going and going and going.  My only &quot;problem&quot; with the book was the rushed ending...but that could have been because of the version of the book I  read.  I listened to the abridged audio book version -- which means some of  the story was cut out.   Maybe the ending was cut a bit more than it should  have been, but I'd still recommend the book because it was a thoroughly  enjoyable read. (abridged audiobook version)	1999-09-03
US	53026413	R1DZVQVOSWNWIR	0440206235	943492948	The Pirate and the Pagan	Books	5	5	5	N	N	I've found a new author...	After reading the reviews posted here, I took a chance and tried this book -- not expecting much.  Well, was I in for a pleasant surprise! This is one of the most enjoyable historical romance novels I've read in years.  From  their first meeting, the sparks flew and it was obvious Summer and Ruark  were a perfect match for each other.  The problem is, both were too  stubborn to admit it to each other.  I was totally shocked by some of the  actions both characters took, but it made for a pleasant change from the  typical historical novel.  The book was filled with adventure, fun, daring,  and love, and the characters were likeable.  After having read this book,  I'm happy to say I've found another good author and I'm looking for another  Henley novel.	1999-08-23
US	53026413	R1MGV76I2UZ2PG	0375403035	990014722	Right Hand of Evil: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Pretty good horror story...	I made a mistake and purchased the abridged audio book version of this book. And while I thoroughly enjoyed it and found it a little scary at times, I'm sure I missed a lot of good reading by having an abridged  version.  But aside from that sad fact, the book is good.  I expected it to  be a very weak horror story, but I was pleasantly surprised.  I think if  I'd read every word of this book, it's one I wouldn't have read alone.	1999-08-08
US	53026413	RW0X56NONFS6I	1570426392	408200678	When the Wind Blows	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Try it, you might like it...	I've read James Patterson before, and have enjoyed his books. But I must admit, based on reviews I've seen here, I was hesitant to try this book--but I did. Guess, what...I thoroughly enjoyed it. It reads like a  typical Patterson book, with the one exception -- you must suspend (or  either expand) belief so that you can accept that a person can be  &quot;engineered&quot; to have attributes not found in a typical  person--i.e., wings. You know...something akin to cloning...  A while back,  no one would have believed that possible, but now we know better. <br />The  story is interesting and has the requisite amount of suspense, action, and  likeable characters -- along with a few of those you just want to hate. If  you like Patterson and don't mind a little science in your fiction, you'll  probably like the book. I know I did.	1999-08-06
US	53026413	R167MKZX9ORV9D	0380792648	724743548	Subterranean	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Fast paced, excellent read	As another reader mentioned, I picked this book up based on the reviews found here.  Unlike that reader, I thoroughly enjoyed the book.  It took a little longer than I expected for the action to start -- but still within  the first quarter of the book -- but once the action started, it was  nonstop. You speed from one scene to another trying to see what the outcome  of the latest predicament will be.  The characters while not developed  in-depth, still had enough &quot;meat&quot; on them for you to care what  happened to them.  However, I do have to agree with another reader who  stated that the romance between two characters seemed forced.  It did, but  that was easy to overlook since the romance played a small part in the  book.  <br />The descriptions of the scenery were vivid enough for me to  visualize where the characters were.  Heck, I feel as if I were in the  tunnels and caverns with them!  I read the book in about four days, which  is fast for me since I prefer to spend most of my time on a computer.   Would I recommend it?  You're darned skippy I would!	1999-07-27
US	53026413	R2XRXOW2Z68V1C	0451406877	346386913	Captive (Florida Civil War)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Enjoyable ...	This was an enjoyable book.  While certain aspects of the &quot;build up&quot; of the romance between the two characters played out a little long for my tastes, it was nonetheless a decent read.	1999-07-07
US	53026413	RDL72DWOHLZXS	1567404480	123766976	Joining (Shefford Series)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Not what I expected	I was an avid fan of Johanna Lindsey's some years back, and loved just about every book she wrote. So I had pretty high expectations for this book.  Unfortunately, they weren't realized.  There was little of the  &quot;tension&quot; you expect to find between the main characters in an  historical romance, and therefore, the story wasn't as good as expected.  Further, the characters weren't developed to the point where you could  actually care about them.  The female character's dislike of the male  character was shallow, childish, and thus hard to accept as the main reason  for keeping the two apart.  And why the male character fell for the female  is not known to me since her redeeming qualities were not demonstrated  sufficiently.  Rather than go on with my disappointments, I will say, it  was a decent read, but nothing up to Lindsey's typical standards.  Check it  out from the library if you want to read it; but wait for a better book if  you have some money to spend.	1999-06-29
US	53026413	R2N2WTHSF9T0NR	1561005533	345931989	River God	Books	4	0	0	N	N	If you want adventure, look no further...	Although I enjoyed Birds of Prey better than this novel, I still found River God enjoyable.  It's an interesting foray into Egyptian life.  You learn while you enjoy the story being told.  Worth the read...	1999-06-17
US	53026413	ROMFNLBHMELAO	0553293354	834333861	Foundation	Books	3	0	1	N	N	I was expecting more...	This was my first Asimov book.  Based on the reviews I've seen for this series, I was expecting a more captivating story.  However, another reviewer's comments has convinced me not to give up yet.  That reviewer  notes that this is an early work of Asimov's and the sequels are better.  I'll give the next one a try.	1999-06-10
US	53026413	R2RB76RR345BIF	0553106651	294009896	Seize the Night	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Entertaining, but not as good as Fear	My summary says it all -- while I did enjoy this book, it was not as good as Fear.	1999-06-04
US	53026413	R2QHPEI8Q7OVSU	0505520389	380256462	Knight of a Trillion Stars (Futuristic Romance)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Steamy romance, but weak plot	This is my first Dara Joy book. I bought it based on the reviews here. While I've read much better romance novels, overall the book was good.  I liked the author's writing style, the humor she infuses throughout the  novel, and the steamy romance scenes. However, I wasn't too crazy about the  plot--that was pretty weak since she didn't do too much to make it  exciting, and the romance between the two characters didn't have the  typical &quot;intensity&quot; found in other romance novels I've read. In  other words, while they were both likeable characters, the sparks weren't  flying (out of the bedroom) that helps build the romantic plot.  (I usually  read historical romance novels.)  But, if you're interested in a light  read, the book might be just what you're looking for.  I give it a 3.5.	1999-06-01
US	53026413	R172K3BVGK8859	156100796X	804031392	Freedom's Challenge ('Freedom' Series, Book 3)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Good, but not the best of the three books in this series	While I thoroughly enjoyed this series -- my first introduction to McCaffrey books -- this was my least favorite of the three.  It was enjoyable but for some reason it didn't &quot;grab&quot; me like the  previous two did.  However, I would still recommend it because the series  is enjoyable.	1999-05-29
US	53026413	R2JTTMEGF2LB8C	0312890540	828152800	Soul of the Fire (Sword of Truth, Book 5)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Something to tide you over until book 6	I listened to the unabridged audiobook version of Soul of Fire.  After getting over the rude shock of not hearing Dick Hill doing the narrating, I got used to the new reader's voice and settled in for what I hoped was a  good adventure.  It was, kind of... I enjoyed the introduction of the new  characters, although I must admit my first thought was to pull the tape out  of the recorder to make sure I'd stuck in the correct book.  I just didn't  expect a good portion of the book to be about people I didn't know.  But I  got over that and began to enjoy the fact that they could add to the story  and could possibly be new people that I'd like to have around.  Also, I  found their story and the story of their country interesting. And, unlike  some people, I didn't mind the &quot;chicken that's not a chicken&quot;  scenes.  In a fantasy world, you should expect anything, so that was  palatable.  The Chimes were interesting too, after I figured out what in  the heck they were and how they fit into the story. But the story as a  whole was lacking the usual sense of adventure you get when you read a  Goodkind book.  The story was there, but the sense of adventure wasn't.   I  agree with a few comments about the sex in the book.  It wasn't necessary,  but to be truthful, I wasn't offended by it.  If it hadn't been there, I  wouldn't have missed it.  Since it was there, I didn't mind.  It just  wasn't necessary. While I enjoyed the book and will buy the next, it just  wasn't as good as its predecessors.  The ending for me was abrupt and left  a lot of questions unanswered.  Richard and Kahlan didn't appear to  accomplish much in this story.  But I guess that leaves room for another.   All in all, a decent read, but not Goodkind's best. I'd give it a 3.5 but  since you can't, I give it a 3--mainly because of the ending.  I really  didn't like that.  Would I recommend it?  Yes.  If you like the series,  this one is worth the read.  Just don't expect it to be as good as the  others and you won't be disappointed.  It is good, but it's not AS good.	1999-05-17
US	53026413	R1OTHAUQEPS6AA	0886777690	613842763	A Thousand Words for Stranger	Books	4	4	4	N	N	I liked it....	For the most part, I enjoyed this book.  It did have a few &quot;slow&quot; parts, but I liked the alien world the author created and the characters in the book.  The characters were easy to get to know and  were likeable.  I thought the storyline was original (at least for me), and  I enjoyed that aspect of it as well.  I must admit, I rushed through the  ending by skipping a few pages, but that's because I wanted to see if the  ending was what I was hoping for.  It was.	1999-05-17
US	53026413	R2F2BZ77ZREXJC	1879371650	638271918	The Fires of Heaven (Wheel of Time, Book 5/Cassettes)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	It was a struggle, but I made it to the end...	The WOT books are getting harder and harder for me to read -- and I'm listening to the unabridged audiobook versions!!!  The series started off with a bang and has gone gently downhill ever since.  I must admit, this  book was better than the last few but this isn't the best fantasy series  I've ever read.  Just the longest.  The book does have some merit, I was  happy to see a little romance, there was a decent amount of action, and  there wasn't too much of that &quot;irritating&quot; braid pulling!!!  But  as I've said before with Jordan's books, he kills you with details and you  have to wade through the details to get to the story.  On the other hand,  if you like details, this is the series for you!	1999-05-10
US	53026413	R3HI6YQAOBRV9	0671044699	220318053	False Accusations	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A little predictable, but enjoyable nonetheless	I listened to the abridged audio book version of False Accusations. It took about 20 minutes for me to &quot;get into&quot; the book, but after that point, I was interested in the outcome.  The book is not action  packed, nor full of thrills and chills.  Instead, it tells a story of how  devious some people can be.  Towards the end, I figured out who the  &quot;bad&quot; character was, but I still listened on to hear my  suspicions confirmed.  All in all, not a bad read but not the best I've  heard.  I would however, give the author another chance.	1999-05-07
US	53026413	R14X9JP1JO66XQ	1570426244	484617333	Spyder Web	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A very enjoyable read...	I found this to be a very enjoyable read.  Although the plot was complex, the author did a nice job of bringing everything together.  Being in the IT business, I found the references to technology interesting.  However, if  you are not in the least interested in technology, the references may not  sit so well.  But if you can overlook that, the story itself is pretty good  and well worth the read.	1999-04-22
US	53026413	R2SOVZN6PG5TSH	0312854315	968535658	The Shadow Rising (The Wheel of Time, Book 4)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Going downhill...	The first book in this series grabbed my attention and had me excited about the fact that I had found what I hoped to be a great series.  Then I read the second book, and while it was okay, it was not as good as the  first. To make a long story short, I've just finished this book, the fourth  in the series, and well...yawn, quite frankly, I'm getting bored.  At  first, the quirky characteristics of some of the &quot;people&quot; in the  book added to their depth and made them &quot;real.&quot;  But come on  now!...what's the fascination with someone pulling on their darned braid  every few minutes!  I say just cut the darned thing off already so we can  move on! I'm also sick of the frequent references made about how Rand  Al'Thor used to be no more than...blah, blah, blah, and now he's acting  like he's a Lord. If the characters haven't figured out by now that the guy  has grown, then its a sad story. Now while I do have my gripes about the  story, it's only fair to say that the book did have its interesting  moments.  In fact, some of those moments were darned good.  Perrin came  into his own -- or is getting there, and Matt had to get himself out of a  few sticky situations. But it could have been better. In any event, since I  checked book 4 and 5 out of the library at the same time, I'll give the 5th  book a chance to grab my attention. My fingers are crossed for the best  because Jordan is a decent writer.  However, his tendency to bombard  readers with just a little too much detail is slowing down what could be a  very good story! (I listened to the unabridged version of this book -- all  29 tapes which added up to 43.5 hours of listening time).	1999-04-19
US	53026413	R3R0S54HERJTZ1	1567407692	34846573	The Gemini Man (Nova Audio Books)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not bad, but could have been better	First let me state that I listened to the abridged (2 tape) audio book version of this book, so the full story could have made my enjoyment of the book rise a notch.  All in all, the book was pretty good.  It had a good  premise and a lot of potential.  However, the author didn't go far enough  -- in other words, he should have been a little more daring and thrown more  action into the book -- anything to raise the suspense level a little  higher.  But, based on what I read, the author is worth another shot.	1999-04-19
US	53026413	R2W8ZX3HVG8BEM	0451455525	655093984	Deathstalker Rebellion: Being the Second Part of the Life and Times of Owen Deathstalker	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A good sequel...	To be brief, this book was not as good as the first in the Deathstalker series, but it was good enough to make me buy the third book, Deathstalker War.  Therefore, I still recommend it.	1999-04-03
US	53026413	R30LXKFBU4DP2M	0449204960	20184657	Men of Men	Books	2	7	9	N	N	A struggle to get through...	I read Birds of Prey -- my first book by this author and loved every minute of it.  Consequently, I was very happy to find Men of Men in the library. Unfortunately, my happiness was short-lived.  I found it a  struggle to get through most of this book, so I finally quit at just over  half way through it.  I found it rather boring. I gave it two stars because  every now and then something would happen that I found interesting, but for  the most part, the book was not what I expected.  However, because of how  much I liked Birds of Prey, I haven't given up on the author yet.  I'll try  something else.  This book just didn't do it for me.	1999-03-29
US	53026413	R2OHN4GSE38QSS	1567404243	702895641	Toyer	Books	1	1	1	N	N	Yuck!	After reading through the early reviews for this book I purchased the unabridged audiobook version thinking I'd be listening to a great story.  Not!  I found the book boring, hard to listen to, and very choppy.  In  fact, I gave up on the 3rd tape, and there are 5 more to go.  I'll likely  force myself to try and listen again -- since I spent my money on the  darned tapes -- but it'll be a while.	1999-03-29
US	53026413	R1JMHBHU0V3E39	0553568957	638561255	The Changeling:  The Second Book of the Fey	Books	4	3	4	N	N	One of the better fantasy series	Although I'm relatively new to the fantasy genre, I know a good fantasy story when I see one -- and this is one of them.  Ms. Rusch knows how to draw you in to a story and make you feel, see, and hear what the characters  experience. This story had many surprising twists to it -- some I didn't  really care for, but that was only because I wanted something else to  happen.  I loved the strength that the characters found within themselves  when they needed it; and with all of the devious scheming going on in this  book, they needed it alot!  A very good read!	1999-03-20
US	53026413	R38LHKIE091O9D	0385493800	934400771	The Testament	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Rather dry...	This book started with a lot of promise, and then went down hill from there.  I kept expecting something good to happen but was sorely disappointed.  The only reason I finished it is because it was in audio  version which meant I didn't have to force myself to turn a page.  Better  luck next time...	1999-03-03
US	53026413	R392HRE6SHWGOQ	0688158226	431800571	Link	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Riveting and thought provoking!	To say this is the first novel by this author, all I can say is, I'll be looking for other books by him. This is an excellent book.  It grabbed my attention early on and held it until the end.  I loved the way the author  blended facts and fiction to arrive at a possible answer to the  &quot;missing link&quot; question.  The fact that his answer is plausible  really has me thinking.  And the best part is that while you read and  learn, you're also very much entertained by the story.   The book has it  all, action, suspense, romance, and danger. I loved it!	1999-02-25
US	53026413	R2P90N7ELM5B10	0671043692	617469103	HUNTER: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Looking for action?  Look no further...	After reading Cain -- my first book by this author, I was anxious to read another.  Hunter is a pretty good book, but not as good as Cain, but then Cain would be hard to top.  Hunter has plenty of action, a good story, and  a drop of romance.  I even enjoyed Hunter's pet, the wolf.  If you can  suspend belief for a short while, take a look at this book.  You won't be  disappointed.	1999-02-22
US	53026413	R1I6YD19QMGBA	067104303X	974831720	The COFFIN DANCER THE : A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fast paced excitement!...	Having read and enjoyed the Bone Collector, I thought I'd give this book a try.  I was captivated within the first few minutes of the book (I listened to the 4-cassette tape version). The plot was plausible and extremely  clever.  I thought I had things figured out until Deaver threw in a plot  twist.  Then I thought I had it figured out again until he threw in another  towards the very end of the book.  What can I say, but that this is a very  satisfying read.  I liked it better than the Bone Collector.  And I must  commend Joe Mantegna on his reading of the book.  His style really draws  you into the book.	1999-02-12
US	53026413	R3F4GTFRFXDC9N	0553478265	159831924	Unspeakable	Books	3	1	1	N	N	So-so...	I read the mixed reviews of this book and figured, what the heck, I'd try it out myself.  As my rating indicates, I found the book satisfactory but not Ms. Brown's best.  I can't really pinpoint what I didn't like, but I do  know that after her love interest revealed his true character at the end of  the book, I wondered why she didn't just walk out of his life...	1999-02-12
US	53026413	R1SY18EJ3EBWZJ	0671582291	401600096	BLOODSTREAM: A Novel of Medical Suspense	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Almost, but no cigar	This is my second Gerritsen book, and I'm sorry, but I can't see what every one is raving about.  Similar to my impression of the first Gerritsen book I read, this book was decent, but I was not as impressed as others  have been.  Different scenes in the book were pretty good, but they still  didn't add up to more than an average book--in my opinion.  In fairness  I'll say it may be because I listened to the abridged version of this book  on cassette.  Maybe I missed elements of the book that those who read it  were privy to. At any rate, I give it 3 stars for the effort.	1999-02-07
US	53026413	R1K8D8VX8R18DO	0553569104	462583878	The Warlord	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Another good one by Elliott!	I recently discovered this author and thoroughly enjoyed this book.  In fact, after reading it I ran out and purchased Scoundrel -- which I just finished and which is also excellent.  If you want a good romance novel to  curl up with, try one of Elliott's books!	1999-02-01
US	53026413	RH0H51RR7OE23	0553569112	585755740	Scoundrel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Almost perfect...	This was a very good book.  It was refreshing to read an historical novel where the woman actually had brains and showed them.  Also, it was nice to see characters act the way you would really expect them to in real life.   The build up to the romance and the romance was great.  The characters were  well developed and the plot plausible.  The only reason I did not give the  book 5 stars is because around the last quarter of the book, it appears as  if the author was rushing the story to end it.  One romance between some  supporting characters was hinted at but nothing came of it in the book.  I  would have liked to have seen a resolution there.  And a few other events  happened very quickly as if they were rushed.  But aside from that, I would  recommend the book to anyone wanting to read a very good historical romance  novel.	1999-02-01
US	53026413	R3NUDYNWJP8S87	0553477935	111429167	Hawk O'Toole's Hostage	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Quick, not so lighthearted, romantic read...	After reading the mixed reviews, I wasn't too sure if I'd like this book.  So, I checked out the unabridged audiobook version from the library and took a chance.  The verdict?  I liked it.  While it's not your typical  &quot;soft&quot; romance, filled with fluff and sugary sweet words -- which  I'm not criticizing since I LOVE historical romance novels for just that  reason -- it was rather interesting and had enough romance to keep me  reading.  I agree that the characters could have been fleshed out a little  more -- for instance, Hawke did appear to be a little stiff and unyielding,  which did make you wonder why Miranda fell so fast for him.  But, her son  was a likeable little guy, and Hawke did have some likeable  characteristics.  And since Miranda's ex-husband was a bit of a jerk, it  wasn't hard to imagine why she'd fall so easily for Hawke, who had some of  the qualities she'd hoped for in her marriage.  All in all, I found it to  be a satisfying read--until I got to the last sentence.  Ms. Brown could  have left that out!	1999-01-23
US	53026413	RTCT4WHW65EG1	0849962145	365432395	The Oath	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Decent read, but not as good as the hype	This was my first Peretti book -- and it was purchased based on the reviews I found here on Amazon.com.  The story was interesting and the author does a good job of getting the message across about how having faith  and God in your life can conquer all.  However, I was not as impressed as  my fellow readers.  I couldn't &quot;see&quot; the action as I listened to  the book (I have the audiobook version), so I didn't get as  &quot;involved&quot; with the characters as I typically do when reading (or  listening to) a good book.  I did however, appreciate the message.  That  was refreshing and does make one think -- which it should.	1999-01-09
US	53026413	R2SIDLLO57HTLD	031219210X	31013904	Zero Option	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent fast-paced read	What more can I say?...This book had interesting characters, believable actions, and a story-line that captures and holds your interest.  I listened to the unabridged audiobook version and you simply cannot beat  reader &quot;Dick Hill&quot; for drawing the listener into a book.  He's my  favorite.  This was my first P.T. Deutermann book -- and it prompted me to  pick up another of his.  An excellent author and book!	1998-12-28
US	53026413	R1HRFCXID2AKYT	0671043021	871273294	The JOB THE	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A rather dry read...	Although this book had some interesting parts, and the story line was decent -- albeit a bit predictable, the book was still a little dry.  In other words, there was very little excitement to the story.  Some important  element that would have made it suspenseful was missing.  Unfortunately, I  don't know what the element is--I just know it wasn't there.  I listened to  the abridged audio book version -- which is probably why I finished the  book -- and the narrator didn't help matters much either.  Would I  recommend it? No, not if you're looking for a page-turner.	1998-12-13
US	53026413	R1YVZ9FJ1CBEAX	1567400752	31013904	Zero Option	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Captivating, fast-paced, and just darned good!	This is my first book by this author, and I'm now scanning the reviews to see which of his other books I'm buying next.  Yes, I was that impressed.  Simply put, this was a darned good story.  I listened to the unabridged  audiobook, which is read by my favorite narrator, Dick Hill.  As usual, Mr.  Hill brought the book to life.  It started by providing just enough  information about the main character, FBI Agent David Stafford, and the  problems in his office to make you want to see what would happen next to  the poor guy who had just tried to do the right thing.  From there, the  story took off and kept my attention until the very last word -- literally.   The interactions and inner workings of the federal agencies that are  described appear to be very realistic and plausible -- which helped bring  the characters and story to life.  Although the book isn't really short, I  can see why someone says it was &quot;too short.&quot;  The book is so  good, you just don't want it to end.  I highly recommend this book if you  want a good read!	1998-12-10
US	53026413	R3TVF885J7XSIU	0553477498	490562585	Time to Hunt	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Well worth the read!	I purchased the abridged audiobook version of this book, and then let it gather dust in my bookcase for several weeks before deciding to listen.  I had a nagging feeling that I had picked a &quot;stinker&quot; since I'm  really not into &quot;war&quot; stories and this one referenced Vietnam.   Wow, was I wrong. The book is great!  I even liked the beginning -- which  some people said was slow. For me, it built up the suspense and painted a  picture of the characters I was reading about.  Then the book got even  better! The suspense, the action, the cunning of the characters, all adds  up to a very good book.   All I can say is, read it.  It is a book I would  highly recommend.	1998-12-06
US	53026413	RAX2WIBW6BEC4	0671526979	599014436	DAYS OF DRUMS A NOVEL	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fast-paced thriller	This was a pretty fast-paced and enjoyable thriller.  The actions were believable, the main character likeable and the story was good.  What more can you ask for?  (Refers to the abridged audiotape version of this book.)	1998-11-10
US	53026413	R2VZ1OQ40GJQW4	0671575635	427512567	A Five Year Plan	Books	5	0	0	N	N	What can I say but &quot;Great&quot;!	If you're looking for a book to hook you from the start, if you're looking for some adventure, some danger, and a little romance and one heck of an ending--you're in the right place.  I was a little skeptical about buying  it because I really did not like Kerr's book, &quot;Esau&quot;.  However,  that was balanced out by his book &quot;The Grid&quot; which I enjoyed.   So, I took a chance, and what can I say, but that this was a very good  book.  It's a book I would &quot;read&quot; again, and recommend to a  friend.  (Review refers to the abridged audiotape version of the book.)	1998-11-10
US	53026413	R1XD77RKHNHGMR	0553525425	985544083	Face of Deception (Eve Duncan)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Enjoyable read	This is my second book by this author, and I found that I enjoyed it just as much as the first.  Although Eve Duncan did a few things that I wouldn't have done and acted a bit too stubborn at times, I liked the book and I  liked John Logan.  The elements of mystery and suspense were enough to keep  my attention, and the end was believable as well.  I recommend the book.   (Review is based on the abridged audiobook version of this book.)	1998-11-09
US	53026413	R15HE8IN00OTRO	156100782X	264340887	The Uncanny	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Not horror-story scary, but interesting nonetheless	I too bought this book based on the positive reviews posted.  I was  looking for a good scare and a good story.  ...Well, the story was pretty  good -- there were interesting characters and events, but nothing in the  book &quot;scared&quot; me.  The book was entertaining enough that I don't  feel as if I wasted my money, but it is by far not the best nor the  scarriest book I've ever read -- keeping in mind, this is only MY opinion.   Would I recommend it to a friend?  Yes, but I'd suggest they get it from  the library.	1998-10-20
US	53026413	R202Q31DWXA0CX	1567400515	272067692	The Target (FBI Thriller)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Not bad, but not too good either...	I listened to the unabridged audio book version of The Target -- which is  probably why I finished it.  The book did have its good points-- parts WERE  entertaining.  But overall, I must admit, I got a little sick of the little  girl.  I mean, when have you ever met a child so perfect--polite all of the  time, unselfish all of time, etc.?  But to be fair, I must admit, I  typically don't like to read about kids.  If you do, her  &quot;sweetness&quot; might not bother you.   Also, I thought the romance  between the two adults developed faster than I found believable.  Despite  those two problems, the book wasn't that bad.  I guess if you're a C.  Coulter fan, you might like it.  But the bottom line is: Would I recommend  it to a friend?  Sorry, but I'd have to say No.	1998-10-05
US	53026413	R3GZ0ULD0N686C	0787114286	947218452	The Killer's Game: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Fast, entertaining read!	From the beginning, I knew I'd like this book.  I liked Joe's street-wise  comments, looking at the world through his eyes, and finding out how he was  going to get himself out of the mess he'd gotten himself into.  Although a  killer, Joe has some redeeming qualities that keeps you hoping he'll make  it out of this alive.  I recommend the book if you want and can handle a  lot of fast action, and a few laughs.	1998-09-24
US	53026413	R1QUNKAYY78JVH	0553568922	243185491	Conquerors' Pride (The Conquerors Saga, Book One)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Better than expected	I have to agree with another of the reviewers in saying that, this book  was better than I expected.  This is my first &quot;space opera&quot; type  of book, and while I was hopeful that it would at least be entertaining, I  was surprised to find that I thoroughly enjoyed the book and the story.  I  listened to the unabridged audiobook and the narrator, David Colacci, did  an excellent job. The details of the book -- such as the ships  used in  flight, the aliens, alien equipment, different personalities, etc. were  very interestingly described and added to the believability of this  &quot;world.&quot;  The book has action, a good story, and interesting and  varied characters and aliens.  I will be purchasing the sequel!	1998-09-11
US	53026413	R121Q471U3X38R	1575662639	92903178	Deceived	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Not her best, but enjoyable nonetheless!	This book started out just a tad slow, but still enough to keep my attention. I agree with other reviewers that some characters appeared one-dimensional--namely the heroine's sister. Further, later actions and thoughts of the heroine with regard to her sister--after a middle of the book climax, I found a little hard to believe. But aside from having to suspend belief for those few actions and thoughts, I thoroughly enjoyed the book. There was little mincing of words once &quot;love&quot; was discovered, and the sensual portions of the book were just that -- very sensual.  Ms. Small is still one of my favorites.	1998-08-12
US	53026413	R3KY6GA84FPDJ2	0441001971	4008031	Circus of the Damned (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Another winner!	While reading &quot;Guilty Pleasures,&quot; the first book in this series, I so enjoyed this author's writing style and the story that I ran out and purchased the next four books in the series. I just completed Circus of the Damned and it was as good as I would have expected. With this author, I'm not afraid of being disappointed. If you're even remotely interested in vampires and the supernatural, as well as a good suspenseful, and action-filled story, try this series of books.	1998-08-09
US	53026413	R2TP5431GCLRNS	1570425965	11618814	Riptide	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Predictable, but entertaining nonetheless...	Having seen the movie the Relic and listened to the audiobook the &quot;Reliquary,&quot; I thoroughly enjoy these authors.  This book was no exception.  It read like it could easily be ported over to a movie -- which is fine with me, but the ending was predictable.  Nonetheless, I enjoyed the book and would recommend it.	1998-08-01
US	53026413	R29AZKWAS1G67J	0375402292	140729396	Pandora: New Tales of the Vampires	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Not what I expected	After reading all the hype about Anne Rice returning to the style of writing seen in The Vampire L'Estat novels, I must admit I was expecting more than what I got from this novel. Parts of Pandora's history (from childhood to adult) were interesting but after awhile I was ready to move on--unfortunately, Ms. Rice was not. Around the time Pandora was made into a Vampire, the story picked up a little but not much. The characters didn't have the depth I expected, nor was the story as compelling as I would have liked. The story did have its good points, but I must admit, I finished it only because I was listening to it on audiotape (unabridged version) and at times, even that was a struggle.	1998-06-21
US	53026413	R30507SXDS2QY4	156100572X	396820452	The Concrete Blonde (Harry Bosch Series)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Decent read	Overall, I enjoyed this book. However, I began to get a little bored with the court room scenes.  Thankfully, there was enough relief from that in other scenes that moved the plot forward.  I like the author's style, but for some reason, this book didn't grab me. I'm hoping Blood Work is better because it's already on my list of books to read.	1998-06-21
US	53026413	R32RCTQ7THBPHM	0783883587	600228327	Fear Nothing (G K Hall Large Print Book Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Enjoyable read!	I listened to the unabridged audio version of Fear Nothing, and thoroughly enjoyed the book -- except for the ending.  The story unfolded a little on the slow side but with enough suspense and to keep my attention.  The characters were good and I loved the humor interspersed throughout the novel. After the climactic scene at the end of the book, the book concludes with a short summary of what has happened over a period of time after the ending scene. I think the ending could have been better if there had been more of an explanation of how the characters ended up the way they did at the end.  But aside from that, I have no real complaints about the ending, and I really enjoyed the book.	1998-05-17
US	53026413	R305Y3RGTHK3TW	1561009202	194657558	Nowhere to Run	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Yawn.	If you're interested in the everyday life of a cop, maybe this book will be of interest. But remember, each day in their lives can't be filled with action and adventure. To that end, this book delivered -- there was little action and the &quot;adventure&quot; was ...well, yawn.....  The cop, Jack, was a selfish man that was always thinking of himself first, his wife and everyone else, last. There was some action, but not enough to satisfy my taste, and the adventure...well, was there &quot;really&quot; any?  If you've got nothing better to do, and I mean nothing, this book may be worth the read. I only finished it because I had paid for the unabridged audio version and it was thus, being read to me.  Otherwise, I think I would have given up on it.  If you're wondering why I rated the book a &quot;4&quot; instead of lower, it's because the book had it &quot;moments.&quot;  A few, but they were there nonetheless.	1998-03-15
US	53026413	RQ2EFOK5H7PXH	1561007560	410299170	Reliquary (Pendergast)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great Story!	If you're looking for a very good solid story, then give this book a try.  The Reliquary had its fair share of action, suspense, and bouts of terror. It read like a solid, well-put together story, instead of the fluff we get from some books. I listened to the unabridged audio version and found it very enjoyable.  It's a book I would recommend, and did.	1998-03-15
US	53026413	RY3F4U1VVIJW6	1570426090	659665709	Mayday	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent book!	I listened to the unabridged audio version of this book and even with the rather deadpan voice of the narrator, I still very much enjoyed this book. The book has action, plenty of suspense, thrills and chills.  It grabs your attention from the beginning and doesn't let go until the end.  The descriptions are vivid enough to allow you &quot;see&quot; what's going on.  Some of the character's actions were totally unexpected--a fact that I liked.  As a result, I was surprised (or shocked) a few times.  I listened to the book on the way to work and was tempted to drive around my office building a few times--rather than go in the office-- just because I didn't want to stop listening.  I highly recommend this book!	1998-03-06
US	53026413	RW1V42SO42HVP	0345418883	535136249	Pawn of Prophecy (Belgariad, Book 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Slow but interesting	This was my first David Eddings book.  While I found it &quot;slow&quot; in its pace, it was very easy to read and I enjoyed &quot;meeting&quot; the characters.  In fact, I read the book in two days.  The characters are well developed and the story line is interesting.  The mystery and intrigue in the book are also a big plus. While I would wholeheartedly recommend this book, it would be with the caveat not to expect a lot of action--some but not a lot.  But the potential for Garion to grow and become a strong &quot;force&quot; in the book is clearly evident.  From the other reviews on this board, I expect the rest of this series to be better, and I can't wait to start on them.	1998-02-19
US	53026413	R1WY4PGFZDVOAZ	0446365130	66342535	Criminal Conversation	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Wonderfully Wicked	Reading this book was like eaves dropping on other persons conversations.  At times I felt guilty for listening (I heard it through an unabridged audio book), but I couldn't put it down.  Although I had to commend the DA for his determination in nailing the mob leader -- who had been involved in murder, I also liked the mob leader.  The story was strong and involving, and the plot very plausible.  The main characters are developed well enough to allow the reader to actually care what happens to them.  Towards the end of the book I didn't know whose side I should be on!  This book gets a thumbs up from me and a coworker who listened after I did--although I must admit, while he loved the ending, I would have preferred another.  Anyway, out of my inventory of audio books -- of which he's heard around 30 -- he found this book to be the best so far.  No small feat--he's VERY picky. (The book gets a 9 only because I wanted a different ending!)	1998-02-19
US	53026413	R3QT6ZGU7GFOHK	1561007773	939049888	Stone of Tears (Sword of Truth Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Definitely worth the read!	This book is definitely worth the read. There's enough action and subplots to satisfy just about anyone, and Richard and Kahlan were fleshed out more in this book. Since I don't have much time to sit back and enjoy a good read, I listen to unabridged audio books whereever possible. Dick Hill, the reader of this book, does a wonderful job of narrating the book with the appropriate pace to match the activity in the book, and a variety of voices to differentiate between the characters. I'm looking forward to reading the Blood of the Fold!	1998-01-25
US	53026413	R3T8DZ5SY8II08	0812548051	361278280	Wizard's First Rule (Sword of Truth, Book 1)	Books	5	11	16	N	N	Great book!	This is the first fantasy novel I've ever read (actually I listened to an unabridged audio version). I'm now hooked on fantasy novels, and considering I began the book half convincing myself that it might be a waste of time, that's no small feat!  From the beginning of the book, I was pulled into the world of Richard and Kahlan.  Goodkind's descriptions created a world that was easy for me to &quot;see,&quot; and characters that are easy to care about. And, the book had enough action to keep my interest.  In fact, I hated for it to end!    Because of all the comparisons I've read about between Goodkind and Jordan, I also read Jordan's first book in the Wheel of Time series. While I found that book highly enjoyable and I have already purchased book two, I prefer Goodkind's writing style. I felt closer to his characters than I did those of Jordan's. BUT, I will continue to read Jordan as well, and I'm now looking for book 3 in Goodkind's series since I just finished book 2 (Stone of Tears).	1998-01-25
