US	53024363	R1YVNPNG93DYL0	038550036X	699948535	When Life Calls Out to Us: The Love and Lifework of Viktor and Elly Frankl	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	Excellent biographic information	As one of Dr. Frankl's medical students at the Poliklinik in 1948 I found this book of great interest. It is well written and detailed. Although I had always admired Frankl for not falling victim to hate after his concentration camp experiences I was unaware of the profound influence his second wife Elly (the first wife,Tilly, died in Bergen-Belsen) had in his recovery from the tragedies and the help she had given him in the propagation of logotherapy.<BR>Anyone who is familiar with some of Frankl's book will enjoy reading about the fascinating and colorful personal lives of these two truly extraordinary people. Dr. Klingberg is to be congratulated for his efforts in making them available to us.	2003-07-08
US	53024363	R9YMW11AWQRBS	0786710411	674707774	Churchill at War 1940-45	Books	4	15	15	N	Y	Unknown aspects of a complex personality	This book is a reprinted excerpt of Lord Moran's diary who was Churchill's personal physician from May 1940 to his death. As his doctor Moran accompanied him to all major conferences. The diaries provide, therefore, fascinating glimpses into the lives of the people who have shaped the twentieth century. Although only the war years are covered here the interested reader might want to look up the complete diaries in libraries because they are no longer in print. <BR>Nevertheless, even the book under discussion shows that the Churchill who is so admired today also had his darker side and that by 1943 the Atlantic Alliance was no longer as firm as we are led to believe. At the time of the Teheran and Yalta conferences, which shaped the post-war world, Churchill had lost all influence over Roosevelt, who had gravitated instead to Stalin. Lord Moran also shows clearly that Roosevelt was no longer capable of understanding what he was up against and at Yalta it was apparent that the man was dying. He should never have run for re-election in 1944. <BR>The insights which Lord Moran brings to our understanding of the tragic twentieth century should be seriously considered because the fate of the world hangs on the physical and mental health of a handful of leading politicans.	2003-07-08
US	53024363	R2M7998U4OGSOK	0679729526	58983679	The Aeneid (Vintage Classics)	Books	4	6	7	N	Y	Adequate translation	I read the Aeneid in its English translation by Rhoades in the Great Books of the Western World and was somewhat put off by the style. Fitzgerald's translation of this Latin classic reads easier and is likely to enjoy greater popularity. Since hardly anyone is familiar nowadays with the names of ancient Greek and Roman heroes the glossary at the back of the book is also very helpful.	2003-01-10
US	53024363	ROU33VKX1W4WO	0670032107	113215664	Bible Code II: The Countdown	Books	1	8	15	N	N	Food for the Gullible	I received this book as a Christmas present and after having read it am still not sure about one basic aspect. Is the author honestly deluded or is he perpetuating a hoax for the sake of money? <BR>It has been amply shown that any book can be massaged to come up with any meaning one wants. The basic assumption that the Bible was written in its current form 3000 years ago is untenable and since Hebrew writings contained originally no vowels there is no limit to which one can let one's fantasy roam to detect the words and their meanings one wants to ascribe to them. One small example: I don't know Hebrew but I do know that \\"obelisk\\" is not a Hebrew word. It comes comes from the Greek where it stands for \\"spit,\\"  a sharp tipped object. To read modern meanings into ancient writings shows naivetee to say the least. <BR>The problem with the book is that some people will not only be impressed by the message but may act on it. Just as some Christians and Jews try to hasten the arrival of the Messiah on the basis of ancient Jewish and Christian apocalyptic writings.<BR>The world is a sufficiently dangerous place and instead of inciting more fear we should advise our leaders, and writers, both here and abroad to move cautiously and not let tragedies like 9/11 and others which may yet come stampede us into massive retaliatory actions.<BR>If the author reads this I would encourage him to contact me because there are better ways to help this world than what he has tried to do.	2003-01-10
US	53024363	R3O2NRLLJY4NWO	0060906111	114451046	A Guide for the Perplexed	Books	4	16	18	N	Y	Laudable effort	The author makes the case that human beings are more than a chance accumulation of molecules. While science has its definite merits it cannot solve the fundamental question of purpose. Science can and does provide answers to &quot;how?&quot; but cannot be used for &quot;why!&quot; By the very nature of the scientifc method the questions have to be reduced to numbers and thereby measurement but this is not applicable for the human spirit. Only when science and &quot;religion,&quot; in its widest sense rather than sectarian, co-operate in a given human being is personal growth likely to be achieved.<br />Although one may quibble about certain aspects of this little book it is a useful and appropriate counterpoint to our materialistic society which seems to be bent on self-destruction. It may be especially helpful for college students who have been reared exclusively on Darwin and Freud so that they examine themselves and their purpose in this fragile world of ours.	2003-01-10
US	53024363	R218HXN84A55WX	0486269507	919627703	Tutankhamen: Amenism, Atenism and Egyptian Monotheism/with Hieroglyphic Texts of Hymns to Amen and Aten	Books	3	3	4	N	Y	Subtitle should have been Main Title.	This little book reviews the development of the Egyptian solar religion and is an extension of Budge's former book &quot;Egyptian Religion&quot; published in 1899. The present one was published in 1923 immediately after the discovery of Tutankhamen's tomb but was apparently written somehat earlier. Information on Tutankhamen takes up only 13 of the 152 text pages.As such it does not contribute new data and has been superseded by the works of more contemporary archeologists. <BR>The book may be of interest to historians but the general reader can find more up to date information in other publications.	2003-01-10
US	53024363	R2TP8ORVJT1TUW	0385506805	328898695	Why We Fight: Moral Clarity and the War on Terrorism	Books	1	31	56	N	Y	Disappointing and Dangerous	This short book is not one of Mr. Bennett's best efforts. It is a somewhat hastily prepared propaganda effort to justify the current war on terrorism. Christians are being enlisted in the \\"just war\\" by taking scripture out of context and to stoke hate against the radical Muslim world. Furthermore the \\"Judeo-Christian tradition,\\" a term which even observant Jews reject, is invoked to obtain unlimited support for the Likud government in what is, if we are honest with each other, a colonial war. Mr. Bennett assures us \\"with an understanding, almost relgious in nature, that to our two nations [U.S. and Israel] above all others has been entrusted the fate of liberty in the world.\\" <BR>This is a deeply troubling statement because it gives carte blanche to whatever any government in Israel may do. This can only increase the hatred of the Arab world against us and bring more rather than less terrorism to our soil. <BR>Instead of waging a \\"just war\\" Jesus would have wanted us to work towards a \\"just peace.\\" [...]	2002-07-17
US	53024363	R28CLWD17KIZTS	0897470966	299747490	5: Panzergrenadiers in Action - Weapons Number Five	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Excellent publication	As a former member of a Panzergrenadier division I found this booklet highly informative and well illustrated. It provides factual information and refreshed some of my memories after nearly six decades. What is also of interest is that the U.S. armed forces have now adopted, with minimal modification, the essence of the Wehrmacht helmets. The reasons are obvious, because they protected not only the head but also the top of the neck. <BR>The booklet can be recommended to anyone interested in WW II.	2002-04-01
US	53024363	R1GMTEK5EEKIT6	0140297138	466845576	The Israel-Arab Reader: A Documentary History of the Middle East Conflict: Sixth Revised and Updated Edition	Books	5	12	15	N	Y	Excellent Documentation	This book presents an excellent overview of the major documents which shaped the Mideast conflict. It is an invaluable resource for anyone who likes to sift facts from fancy and should be consulted by whoever plans to write on this exceedingly difficult problem the First World War has left in its wake. The book should also be consulted by every journalist and media pundit. To expect that our politicians will do so is probably too much to hope for, although they would sorely need it.	2002-01-17
US	53024363	R316GWLZ5M1HS	0963624202	833171542	From Time Immemorial: The Origins of the Arab-Jewish Conflict over Palestine	Books	2	54	125	N	N	Overrated and Inaccurate	The overwhelmingly positive response to the book by reviewers listed within the book itself lead one to expect a work of important scholarship. As the reader reviews on this site show this is not necessarily the case.<BR>Ms. Peters main objective seems to be to demonstrate: A) the British violated not only the terms of the Balfour declaration which promised a Homeland to the Jews in Palestine but also the League of Nations Mandate which had resulted therefrom. <BR>B) there were never any Palestinians because Palestine as a state has never existed and the non-Jewish population is a heterogenous mixture of various ethnic groups.<BR>C) the Arab refugee problem is a red herring and used by the Arab countries for the sole purpose of fostering hatred against the Israeli state.<BR>ad A) the basic assumption that the British promised all of Palestine (including Transjordan) to the Jews is a Zionist wish dream because they did no such thing. They only promised to establish a Jewish homeland in Palestine and left the size both in terms of square miles and population completely open. The official policy, as expressed by Churchill in the White Paper of 1922 ...,was to create a Palestinian democratic state where equal rights to all citizens are guaranteed regardless of ethnicity or religion. The second part of the Balfour declaration explicitly states \\"it being clearly understood that nothing shall be done which may prejudice the civil and religious rights of existing non-Jewish communities in Palestine...\\" Authors like Ms. Peters and a fair number of political Zionists have steadfastly refused to acknowledge this caveat and regard the declaration as having promised a Jewish state in all of Palestine. This view is incorrect. The mistake the British had made was to assume that Arabs and Jews could peacefully co-exist in a state where Arabs retain their majority. This was wishful thinking which did not take human nature into account but was not a violation of legal obligations. Itwas the impossibility of balancing the different aspirations of the two groups which resulted in the quagmire which still exists.<BR>ad B)and C) The non-existence of Palestinians is a favorite propaganda tool of right wing political Zionists (Golda Meier and successors). It is true that the population of Palestine during the Ottoman empire and during British occupation was multi-ethnic and had diverse religions. But the British continously referred to \\"Palestinian citizens\\" during the Mandate period and these consisted of Jews as well as non-Jews. When the Jewish state was proclaimed in 1948 the vast majority of the non-Jewish population left, for a variety of reasons, became refugees and ended up to a large extent in camps rather than permanent domiciles. Their homes and land, in what was now Israel, was expropriated and their return prevented by the Israeli \\"Absentees Property Law.\\" While on can argue about the number of refugees and the precise reasons for leaving: fear, expulsion or inducement by Arab politicians the facts as stated above remain. Whatever one may want to call these people who, with some of their descendents, still linger in camps today they represent a human catastrophe and a breeding ground for hate. <BR>When Ms. Peters argues that the Jewish state absorbed at least as many displaced Jews from Arab countries and the Arabs should have done so likewise she disregards motivation. The Jewish state needed as many Jewish immigrants as possible while for the Arab states an influx of Palestinians into their respective countries was not regarded as desirable. Ms. Peters is correct when she states that the Arabs use the refugees for political purposes but their acceptance would have legitimized Israeli practices and this they were unwilling to do.<BR>As far as the numbers of refugees are concerned Ms. Peters uses statistical data which are difficult to follow but there exist already other books which invalidate her claims.<BR>Thus the extensive praise heaped by official reviewers of the book and the National Jewish Book Award do not appear to be justified.	2002-01-17
US	53024363	R1HWGC4UP2LS47	031242017X	927747216	The Talmud and the Internet: A Journey between Worlds	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Eloquent glimpse into a Jewish soul	Mr. Rosen shows us in this well written short book the difficulties of what it means for him to be Jewish. Two grandmothers dominate his inner life. One, on the maternal side, born in America, thoroughly assimilated, who died at a ripe old age in the midst of her family. The other, whom he never knew, had lived in Vienna and had become a victim of the Nazis murderous fury. Rosen's father experienced Hitler's invasion of Austria as a thirteen year old boy and was fortunate to have been sent with one of the &quot;Kindertransporte&quot; to Scotland and eventually came to America. The father's family perished during the war as part of the Holocaust. Thus Rosen tries to come to terms with these conflicting fates which still haunt him.<BR>His family epitomizes the Jewish dilemna of belonging, but not quite. America with its material benefits is felt as a blessing. At the same time it is not truly &quot;home&quot; because part of Rosen's soul is still in the Poland of his grandmother's ancestors, as experienced in the study of the Talmud. As the title of the book indicates Rosen tries to make a connection between the material and the spiritual aspects of his heritage and he has done so quite convincingly. He also gives the non-Jewish reader an inkling of why the Talmud is relevant for today's Judaism.<BR>Rosen points out that it is the Jewish New Testament.  But in Judaism it is not the &quot;word&quot; which became &quot;flesh,&quot; but the &quot;flesh&quot; became &quot;word.&quot; This happened when Jochanan ben Zakkai had himself smuggled out in a coffin from beleaguered Jerusalem. With Roman permission he then founded the Yeshiva at Yavneh and thus became the father of rabbinic Judaism as we know it today. The consequences of this inversion of terms are actually enormous and I leave it to the reader to ponder them.<BR>Let me just point out that the Talmud is not a book but an encyclopedia which consists of many volumes. It contains widely differing opinions on Jewishlaw, legends, moral exhortations, and day to day advice on the most diverse subjects. It is as disjointed as the Internet and similar to the Internet you can find almost everything you want but it surely takes patience to locate the needle in the haystack. <BR>Nevertheless this is, as far as I am concerned, not really the Talmud's major importance for the Gentile world. It is rather the fact that Law even if it is divinely ordained through Moses in the Pentateuch, can and should be disputed. Dissent is encouraged. Arguments are held over words and sentences which are given meanings which are totally different from what one would expect Moses had intended. This attitude that &quot;everything is negotiable,&quot; which does not stop at the doors of the synagogue and the word of God, makes Judaism profoundly different from all the other great religions of the world. It is this &quot;talmudic thinking&quot; which has invaded America's culture. Whether or not this has been of benefit to society at large each one of us has to decide in his/her own mind. While the Talmud may provide solace for some it also perpetuates an &quot;us versus them&quot; attitude and as longs as this mental framework exists Rosen's newborn daughter will inherit a world which will continue to be torn by strife.	2001-12-29
US	53024363	R2D500K4LEM1EC	1556522398	12533810	Deliberate Deceptions: Facing the Facts About the U.S.-Israeli Relationship	Books	4	59	69	N	N	Important and topical	Former U.S. Congressman Findley points out in this book how Israeli propaganda has succeeded in presenting the American public with a misleading picture of Middle East events. He also demonstrates the difficulties successive American governments have faced when they tried to influence policies of the state of Israel which ran counter to those of the world at large. <BR>The book comes in three parts which are : Statehood and Conquest; Collusion and Conflict; Perils to Peace. In addition the book contains: a list of major organizations focused on Middle East policy, notes which document the statements made as well as a good bibliography. In each of the three parts Findley takes brief statements from Israeli sources, the press, and individuals who are friendly to the policies of the state of Israel and compares them with actual events that have transpired. It is apparent that the American public has been and continues to be skillfully misled by propaganda efforts which insist that the policies of the state of Israel are identical with the interests of the United States. <BR>From the Israeli standpoint this is perfectly understandable because a small embattled nation requires the powerful support only the United States can give. Findley provides a much needed American perspective from his personal experiences in Congress and meticulous research of the relevant literature. He also points out that the commonly perceived fundamental difference between a Likud and a Labor government is more in terms of tactics rather than goals. Both types of government want to preserve and expand the settlements in the occupied territories. The book was published in 1993 and subsequent events have proven Findley correct. It is becoming quite apparent that, regardless of who is in power in Jerusalem, the coalition governments are averse to a genuinely sovereign Palestinian state which has contiguous borders. Although lip service is being paid to &quot;autonomy,&quot; which can be interpreted in different ways, the facts on the ground are steadily being altered in Israel's favor, and United Nations resolutions are steadfastly ignored. Findley lists 69 specific resolutions (from 1948-1990) critical of Israel's policies and documents how America consistently vetoed, as the only Security Council member, Resolutions which might have investigated or alleviated the plight of the occupied Palestinian people. This fact alone shows an enormous bias in U.S. foreign policy in favor of Jerusalem's governments and does not give us credibility as an &quot;honest broker&quot; of the conflict either in Arab eyes or in those of the rest of the world.<BR>In order to make his points, Findley is at times somewhat repetitive but since the topic is so important and relatively neglected by American non-Jewish authors that is a minor fault. Since events continue to go from bad to worse in the Middle East, and the United States is still throwing its full weight behind Israel's policies, we are now reaping the fruits of our conduct. Deny it as we might in our media, our unquestioned support of Israel's policies is one factor which has led us into our current &quot;War on Terrorism&quot; and this war cannot be won as long as we do not act in an even-handed manner.<BR>Findley's book deserves to be updated but even in its current version should be required reading for all who are in influential positions in government and the media. To ignore or villify the book will become increasingly dangerous.	2001-12-19
US	53024363	RSPYQB1JARL7L	0393321126	702934503	The Iron Wall: Israel and the Arab World (Norton Paperback)	Books	5	84	103	N	Y	Topical and Important	Professor Shlaim's review of the relationship between Palestinian Arabs and Jewish immigrants from the beginning of the Zionist colonisation project up to the election of Ehud Barak as Prime Minister is highly enlightening. &quot;The Iron Wall&quot; was an expression coined by Ze'ev Jabotinsky to denote that the immigrants will require a strong military to gain the respect of the Arab population both within the British mandate area as well as by their neighbors. The various wars the state of Israel has been involved in since its inception, and their reasons, are carefully documented. So are the policies which led to the current impasse between Israelis and Palestinians. It is most heartening to see that the views of both sides are presented rather than, as usual, the unilateral one from the Israeli side. The fact that the book is written by a Jewish rather than Arabic author makes it even more important.<BR>The Iron Wall ought to be read by our politicians as well as media pundits because the current good versus evil depiction of the Arab-Israeli conflict is not only inaccurate but dangerous since it will inevitably result in further escalation of bloodshed.	2001-12-17
US	53024363	R3NBPXVMSKNC0V	0195072731	697763604	Jewish-Christian Dialogue: A Jewish Justification	Books	3	3	11	N	Y	Theologic-Philosophical Discourse	Professor Novak's book is an attempt to bridge the gap between the Jewish and Christian religion from a Jewish point of view. The fact that he called it a Jewish Justification in the subtitle is telling because it implies that such a dialogue is not looked upon with favor by his co-religionists. The discussions range from the Noahide laws, of which Christians unless they are Mormons or theologians, tend to be unaware of, through medieval views including those of Maimonedes to modernity. Novak also devotes a chapter of what he calls &quot;The Quest for the Jewish Jesus,&quot; which attempts to find common ground where none can exist in orthodox Judaism. <BR>It is furthermore of interest that the only real dialogue the author presents is that between two friends Rosenzweig and Rosenstock both of whom were born into the Jewish religion but Rosenstock had converted to Christianity. The fact that their correspondence took place during World War I and was published in the nineteenthirties reduces its relevance for today. <BR>In &quot;A New Theology of Jewish-Christian Dialogue&quot; Novak emphasizes the primacy of listening to God's voice. &quot;Scripture is concerned with removing the thought that God can be seen, but encourages the thought that God can be heard.&quot; Unfortunately in human life those who actually hear, rather than think about, God's voice tend to be in the vast majority mentally unbalanced. Hearing voices is a rather reliable hallmark of mental illness. This is not to deny that a few individuals throughout history have had this genuine religious experience but it cannot be expected from the majority.<BR>The book represents the author's personal philosophy and as an individual steeped in the physical sciences I found it somewhat difficult to read.	2001-12-11
US	53024363	RYO781CJ21MND	0571168450	999113239	The Face of Tutankhamun	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Excellent collection of facts and fiction	In this collection of stories ranging from Carter's discovery of the tomb to the abuse the Pharaoh's remains have been subjected to at the time of Professor Derry's autopsy in 1925, Frayling provides a vivid glimpse of the effect it had on popular imagination. The discovery itself has been sufficiently covered in other publications but the societal impact on film and literature is of considerable interest. So is the Forbes' theory about Tutankhamen's death as a result of a crushing injury to the chest. This assumption is, however, unlikely because the absence of the sternum upon which the theory rests, was in all probability a postmortem artifact and resulted from Carter's attempt to free the gold mask (which covered part of the chest) from the consolidated unguents which had been poured over the body in great profusion. On the whole the book makes a nice present for people interested in Tutankhamen.	2001-12-11
US	53024363	R1ABN0LWH3I070	0674487761	241742613	Judaism, Human Values, and the Jewish State	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	Superb exposition	Eliezer Goldman, the editor, has done an excellent job in presenting the ideas and views of Leibowitz to the English speaking public. This collection of articles gives a broad overview of the Jewish faith, the relationship of religion to the people and the state of Israel, the political problems of the Israeli state and finally the relationship of Judaism to Christianity. It is a thoroughly honest exposition of the problems inherent in the various topics and it is a pity that the book has not become more widely known and reviewed. <BR>It should be of interest to a Jewish as well as Gentile readership and had his warnings after the 1967 war, in relation to the occupation of the conquered territories, been heeded Israel would not be in the difficult straits the country finds itself in today. <BR>His discussion of the Judeo-Christian heritage and refusal to accept the term is also valuable. He does not mind explaining &quot;the repugnance Judaism has for Christianity&quot; as seen from a genuine orthodox Jewish perspective, rather than from any of the other parts of the spectrum which comprises today's Judaism. <BR>While some may not agree with all of his views, they are honest, well reasoned and therefore important to be listened to.	2001-12-11
US	53024363	R1SFF867HEVAPV	0201327988	996880502	Jewish Power: Inside The American Jewish Establishment	Books	4	38	43	N	Y	Honest reporting of an emotionally charged topic.	Although the book, written in the middle nineties, is somewhat out of date it is important because it provides a factual, non-polemic picture of Jewish Power in America. If a similar account were to be written by a Gentile the author would risk condemnation by the main media. Goldberg has meticulously collected his facts and the Prologue story about ex-President Bush's encounter with the Jewish lobby is most enlightening. Goldberg discusses the successes of Jewish individuals in all major aspects of our society and their influence on both domestic as well as foreign policy. <BR>For a person who lived during the nineteen thirties in Vienna a comparsion with the Jewish success story after World War I and prior to Hitler's assumption of power is inevitable. One can only hope that conditions in America will never reach the depth of despair which made a Hitler possible. Nevertheless the concerns for the future which some of Goldberg's informants express are entirely justified. This is especially so after September 11 when every effort is made by Jewish authorities to identify Prime Minister Sharon's policies and interests with those of the United States. Since they violate the civil rights of the Palestinian population and are in disregard of international law as well as U.N. resolutions there can be a serious backlash from the Gentile community in the U.S. if and when the Middle East explodes in a major war, with a resultant major world-wide economic downturn. To avoid a tragedy of this type Mr. Goldberg would be well advised to update his book and exert his influence on the Jewish leadership in the U.S. to promote a just solution in the Middle East which takes the legitimate needs, rather than desires, of Israelis and Palestinians into account. In this way he could be of great service not only to the Jewish community but the world at large.	2001-12-10
US	53024363	R130RJ6ME94JCK	0395779278	962738707	Constantine's Sword: The Church and the Jews: A History	Books	2	38	59	N	N	Unfortunate distortion of history	Mr. Carroll wrote his version of history which differs considerably from that of more authoritative authors. The book is perhaps best understodd from a psychologic aspect. The Irish Catholic son of an Air Force general and a devout mother, finds out that he has misinterpreted a story about his great-uncle,  rebels against his father by opposing the Viet Nam war and accepting as his hero Father Berrigan, and subsequently rejecting the Church as the ultimate symbol of paternal/ maternal authority. The occupied Irish are equated with the persecuted Jews and the British become the evil Romans. This is the tenor of the book. Jesus is being turned into a pharisee and the gospels are myths. These are, of course, opinions to which any author is entitled but factual errors should not be as prevalent when one calls one's book &quot;A History.&quot; <BR>For instance Hitler did not regard everybody who had one Jewish grandparent as a Jew. These Mischlings, I as one of them, ended up in the Wehrmacht to be killed at the front rather than in concentration camps. Pompey conquered Jerusalem only after he had been asked to settle a fratricidal war between two Jewish pretenders to the crown, and when one of the parties subsequently reneged and shut the gates in his face. Two thousand Jews were not crucified in front of the walls of Jerusalem after Herod's death but these  were the sum total of crucifixions in Judea as a result of uprisings. Animosity against Jews in antiquity was not initiated by Christians but had been preexistent before Jesus'death. The origins of the Jewish war against Rome are distorted and the destruction of the Temple was not &quot;a Roman war crime.&quot; The zealots had turned the Temple into a fortress and refused to surrender, so that the building could be saved. On the contrary they kept bombarding not only the Romans but other Jewish factions, with which they were simultaneously at war, from the Temple precincts. Throughout the entire book no reasons aregiven why the Church turned against Jews. <BR>Finally the author relies nearly exclusively not only on secondary but sometimes even tertiary sources, thereby perpetuating misconceptions. It is understandable that when dealing with ancient history secondary sources are at times unavoidable, but Josephus could have been quoted directly and so could have been Philo or Eusebius. <BR>If one wants to read about the travails of a troubled soul in order to to find one's private Jesus then this a book which fits this bill. But one should be aware of Voltaire's dictum: God has created man, and man has never ceased to return the compliment. In this instance it is not God who is being remodeled but Jesus.	2001-12-09
US	53024363	R70BPDTWMMRR5	0674587391	57484432	Moses the Egyptian: The Memory of Egypt in Western Monotheism	Books	4	31	35	N	Y	Historical-Philosophical Discourse	This book is a scholarly discourse as to how the memory of Egyptian monotheism survived in Western Culture. I use the word scholarly advisedly, not only because the book is well researched and annotated but it is also written for scholars. It does not lend itself to cursory reading but needs to be studied. This may be the reason why previous reviewers, although favorable,did not inform the reader of the points made in the book.  For me the most important aspect was that Assmann clearly distinguishes between Moses as a historic figure and Moses as portrayed in the literature. He calls this phenomenon mnemohistory. Namely history not as it transpired according to current knowledge but history as it is remembered. This is important because we know nothing about the historic Moses. Assmann then goes on to describe previous views held about Moses having been culturally,if not ethnically, an Egyptian and how he had created a counter-religion to Egyptian practices. He reviews the works of authors ranging from the 17th to the 20th century; with a number of them having passed into oblivion over the centuries. Assmann also subscribes to Freud's view that Akhenaten's monotheism was the model upon which Moses had built his own edifice. Others may argue that the biblical Moses was not yet a true monotheist because the god of Moses is still in competition with other existing gods. Had he indeed been the universal cosmic god of Akhenaten he would not need to have been \\"jealous\\" or to \\"magnify\\" himself on the Egyptians, as the Bible repeatedly tells us. Assmann accepts,furthermore, Freud's idea of repressed trauma which remains latent in the subconcious where it acts as a disturbing element and eventually breaks back into consciousness in distorted form. This is not a biologic fact but merely psychoanalytic theory. Although popular at this time, it has not been proven to occur in individuals let alone ethnic groups or nations.    The book also abounds with Latin and French quotations which are not always translated. The Greek and German ones are. Thus a proper evaluation of this book requires information which the average - even reasonably well educated - American reader does not readily possess. This also highlights the problem one has with a single 1-5 star rating system. For scholarship it deserves the four stars given but for ease of readability I would have to reduce them to about 2. The book will,therefore, be best appreciated by professionals in the field rather than laypersons.	2001-11-23
US	53024363	R3FD7PKU6KJBC1	0872203247	997139993	The Guide of the Perplexed (Hackett Classics)	Books	4	25	37	N	Y	Useful introduction to Jewish Philosophy	This abridged version of Maimonedes thoughts covers about one quarter of the complete book with the same title. The selection by Guttmann concentrates on Maimonedes' attempt to bring rational Aristotelian philosophy in accord with classical Jewish literature. Thus, allegorical reading of the anthropomorphic features of the biblical God is urged for a better understanding of the hidden meaning and to bring it in conformity with reason. Other main aspects covered deal with Prophecy, Providence and the way to a godly life. It is the latter which struck me as most interesting because the dedication of every moment of one's life to God (except when engaged in mundane duties which ought to be kept to a minimum) is precisely what one finds in the Bhagavad Gita except that the name of the Deity is Krishna rather than Yahweh. Apart from the name there is absolutely no other difference. If we are serious in believing that there is only one God in control of the universe this should not be disturbing because all nations are entitled to use their name for the Deity which encompasses all. Yet Maimonedes insists that only through contemplation of the Jewish law can perfection be achieved and one finds some rather derogatory remarks about those who think otherwise. Although Maimonedes emphasizes that the way to God is through humility, tolerance of the views of others will not be found. Furthermore, while intellect and reason are extolled Maimonedes has no difficulty accepting oral traditions of biblical stories, especially in regard to Abraham, Jacob and Moses, which have not only no corrollary in the Pentateuch but are at times at variance with it. Thus, the imaginative faculty and the rational faculty, as Maimonedes called them, and which distinguish the human being from animals, did not seem to find complete harmony in his view of the world and may leave some of us still perplexed.<br />The introductions to the book by Frank and by Guttmann are very helpful in setting Maimonedes' work in its appropriate context. For the student of comparative religion this is a useful introduction to medieval Jewish philosophy as it originated in a Muslim milieu and which is still held in high esteem by some modern theologians.' work in its appropriate context. For the student of comparative religion this is a useful introduction to medieval Jewish philosophy as it originated in a Muslim milieu and which is still held in high esteem by some modern theologians.	2001-11-22
US	53024363	R2D34SI1WMD1TG	0060630353	192773485	Who Wrote the Bible?	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Valuable Contribution	Friedman gives his professional opinions on the authors of the Pentateuch. He subscribes to the prevalent idea that the Bible as we know it is a composite of several authors, who worked at differing periods of Jewish history, and is not afraid to name names whenever he can. Others may disagree with his analysis but it is eminently readable and succeeds in putting the book in historical perspective. Regardless whether or not one agrees with all of Friedman's conclusions one of the unstated messages might be that biblical prophecy - regardless whether it is Jewish or Christian - which is currently in great deman again, should also be read in the historical context it was written in, rather than being applied to today's political events. Such post-dating produces self-fulfilling prophecies which are for the most part far from desirable.	2001-11-20
US	53024363	R8MMSLBX3PDKL	0060290307	872007676	Angel on the Square	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An Introduction to the Russian Revolution for children	The author presents a moving and compassionate picture of life under the last years of Tsar Nicholas II from the point of view of an adolescent girl who grew up in priviledged society. The author's intention has obviously been to present a piece of history to children in a way they can identify with and instead of the &quot;rags to riches&quot; story this is one from &quot;riches to rags.&quot; The characters in the Imperial family,including Rasputin,are painted true to life and poor Nicholas was simply not up to the job he was confronted with. The book also shows very clearly in the character of Misha how youthful enthusiasm can turn to bitter disappointment when the fruits of revolution are presented.<BR>The book can be highly recommended especially for Middle and High School libraries or as a gift for teenage children.<BR>In our era, where the study of history as being &quot;all about dead white males&quot; is discouraged, Angel on the Square shows that history is people and, unfortunately, September 11 2001 has literally brought home to us in a most terrible manner.	2001-09-23
US	53024363	RUVHYQPU28JPX	0375753974	683606071	Pontius Pilate	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Remarkable historic science-fiction	Ms. Wroe has done an excellent job in bringing the reign of Pontius Pilate to life. He is a reluctant governor who dislikes the people he is forced to govern while under orders of an irascible emperor. Every minor misstep may lead to recall and worse. He neither understands nor wants to understand the people he is supposed to be responsible for and who in turn don't want to be governed by Rome. <BR>The author paints her subject in life-like colors and shows us how the character of Pilate - his vacillations and shirking of responsibility - are still to be found in every day life. She has done her homework and the book contains numerous nuggets of genuine information about Roman life which are a joy to read about even when one does not accept the theology. Ms. Wroe is careful to distance herself from the fantastic Christian apologias which have been woven about Pilate. She reports them because they are part of the lore but does not credit them. Christians will find their belief in Jesus sustained. For Jews the topic is more controversial since they are unable to subscribe to the idea that Jesus could have been the promised Messiah. Nevertheless even Jews may find the historical aspects of the Roman milieu in the first century of interest.	2001-09-04
US	53024363	RQ0MMOD6GDWM	094599981X	454219546	Hot Talk, Cold Science: Global Warming's Unfinished Debate	Books	5	45	54	N	N	Good job	Dr. Singer presents an excellent review of the problems associated with determining the future extent of global warming. He emphasizes the differences between land , ocean, and atmospheric temperature measurements. He also points out correctly that all forecasts depend on models and as we all know weather forecasting is far from an exact science even for the short time of a week or a few months. We still don't know, for instance, if we'll have good snow for the Olympics in Salt Lake City and they are only less than half a year away. How can we have the audacity to pretend to know what the temperature is going to be a hundred years from now? Models can only give answers based on information which is currently available but that is bound to change even within a decade. To engage in massive government intervention on basis of a perceived threat, which in turn rests on inadequate data, would qualify for inclusion in Tuchman's &quot;March of Folly.&quot; Dr. Singer is to be congratulated for having had the courage to go against public pressures and present the facts as they exist.	2001-08-27
US	53024363	R1B5ZBFG49AS8N	0743203399	269804839	The Wild Blue: The Men and Boys Who Flew the B-24s Over Germany 1944-45	Books	3	14	20	N	Y	Nice personal accounts but perpetuates stereotypes	Mr. Ambrose's most recent book about the airmen who flew the Liberators from Italy gives a nice personal picture of the pilots and crew, especially of the role Senator McGovern played. The book has, however, from my point of view as a recipient of the bombs which were showered on Vienna, a fatal flaw. The book perpetuates the stereotype that the 15th USAAF did not engage in area bombing but went only after strategic targets such as railroad marshalling yards, oil refineries and similar military objectives. A specific point is made that the pilots were instructed not to hit cultural landmarks, as for instance St. Stephen's cathedral in Vienna. This may have been the instructions but the inner city of Vienna which consisted mainly of cultural landmarks including the Opera house, St. Stephen's square, the Burgtheater, Parliament House, Imperial palace to name just a few were clearly hit. The raid on March 12 ( which is not mentioned in the book, only a March 14 attack on Wiener Neustadt is reported)was especially devastating for the inner city. About one third of the homes and buildings were destroyed throughout the city including churches, schools, hospitals etc. during 1944 and especially 1945. The little city of Wiener Neustadt was so devastated that at the end of the war only 17 houses were undamaged in a city of about 30.000 residents. The reasons for the carnage are explained in my book War and Mayhem. While the British openly admit to &quot;carpet bombing&quot; American authors still feel obliged to deny having used this tactic. Finally the second to last paragraph in the Epilogue is fiction. It is true that a great many Austrians, myself included, had no use for Hitler and wanted him to lose the war and thereby his life as soon as possible but the conversation as reported in that paragraph never took place. The real conversation - which I checked out with Senator McGovern - is also reported in War and Mayhem. Finally Mr. Ambrose is mistaken in the assumption that the destruction of the oil refiners were the straw that broke the camel's back. It was much rather the loss of the Rumanian oil fields in the fall of 1944. The only oil wells available from that time on were in Austrian Zisterdorf and the supply was clearly totally inadequate to sustain the needs of the troops. Why did the Wehrmacht not surrender when the war was lost? We tried to keep the Communists out of central Europe so that the Allies would have a chance to occupy us rather than the Russians!	2001-08-27
US	53024363	R2JL59DH90GQPG	0967569109	673998712	An Eye for an Eye: The Story of Jews Who Sought Revenge for the Holocaust	Books	4	163	177	N	N	Important under reported documentation	John Sack has done the truth-loving community a great favor by publishing this thoroughly researched book. It deals with the manner of how the transition from German to Polish rule was effected in the areas ceded to Poland by the Allies. It is well known that Hitler had started &quot;ethnic cleansing&quot; of Poles from the &quot;Warthegau&quot; (areas annexed after the Poish campaign in 1939) and one can hardly wonder that the Poles most heartily reciprocated after Hitler's defeat. In view of the abundance of books about the Holocaust it is to Mr. Sack's credit to have shown to the world that Germans were also victims of Polish and Jewish revenge, when the opportunity arose. No past history of misdeeds was necessary, that they had been born of German parents sufficed. The fact that the author had to overcome a highly effective censorship before he was able to get the book published bodes ill for our society, which is so fond of its purported &quot;freedom of speech.&quot; I am convinced that if Mr. Sack had not been Jewish the book would, in all probability, never have seen the light of day. If it had been self-published it would probably never have been reviewed and relegated to obscurity in spite of its intrinsic value. That Jews were in leading positions in the Polish State Security Office immediately after the war and that a number of them conducted themselves in an inhuman manner should surprise no one, unless one believes that Jews have transcended the bounds of the human race and joined the realm of the good angels. When it comes to war the worst of human instincts are released on both sides of the front. It needs to be remembered also that only the armies had stopped shooting on VE day while private wars, due to accumulated hatred by the oppressed, had continued for some time thereafter. In order to avoid another Holocaust we have to deal with the basic human phenomenon of hate, which cannot be legislated out of existence. Moralising will not do either. Theroots of conflict must be exposed and intelligently dealt with by considering the grievances of both sides. This Mr. Sack has done in an admirable manner and An Eye For An Eye should be used in Holocaust education courses to show the universality of evil.	2001-07-05
US	53024363	ROU9HMHXX91V2	1551681919	769828319	Other Losses	Books	5	177	196	N	Y	Valuable addition to WWII history	Mr. Bacque is to be congratulated for publishing this book which describes the fate German soldiers who had surrendered to General Eisenhower's forces at the end of WWII. They had expected to be treated according to the Geneva convention governing the conduct of armies in regard to captured enemy personnel. This was not to be the case. As Mr. Bacque points out an entire new category of &quot;Disarmed Enemy Forces&quot;, DEF, was created. Its only purpose was to avoid having to feed and house these millions of ex-soldiers and thereby bypass the Geneva convention to which America was a signatory. One may argue about the precise numbers of ex-soldiers who died in these &quot;temporary enclosures&quot; but the fact that inhuman treatment did exist cannot be denied. Neither can the fact that a considerable percentage of them was subsequently given to the French for what is called today &quot;slave labor,&quot; albeit this term refers nowadays only to non-German nationals. Readers who may feel negatively about Bacque's revelations should be aware that this treatment of former members of the German army was not just happenstance but the execution of the Morgenthau plan to render Germany harmless forever. The plan was not directed against the German leadership or Nazis, but the German people at large. Mr. Baque makes frequent reference to this unfortunate document but readers, who cannot conceive that U.S. personnel may also carry out atrocities should look at the Document section of Warren F. Kimball's &quot;Swords or Ploughshares? The Morgenthau plan for Defeated Nazi Germany.&quot;The book clearly shows that Roosevelt had endorsed a policy of &quot;being hard on Germany&quot; and Eisenhower was in full accord. That you cannot be &quot;hard&quot; on a country but only on its people and that this policy is bound to involve cruelties was not a consideration. The conditions changed only after Eisenhower's return to the U.S. and the appointment of Lucius D. Clay as High Commissioner. He clearly saw that the existing situation, even for the civilian population, made neither military nor political sense. It would merely turn the population to communism because even the Russians fed the people in their zone better than the Americans did. It is also to President Truman's credit that he quietly dropped the Morgenthau plan soon after the Potsdam meeting. As a former member of the Wehrmacht I had become aware of the Morgenthau plan in the winter of 1944-1945 but had regarded it as Nazi propaganda. I had always had high admiration for the principles America stood for and the Morgenthau plan seemed to be in total contradiction to those ideals. As mentioned in my book War and Mayhem I had intended to surrender to the U.S. forces towards the end of the war, but changed my mind on VE day and through the grace of God managed to avoid American as well as Soviet captivity. Having read Mr. Bacque's book I am even more grateful for the good fortune which kept me out of DEF status and instead allowed me to go to medical school within about six weeks after Germany's capitulation. I had no idea about the conditions German ex-soldiers were exposed to in those days, just as I had no idea about what really went on in the Nazi concentration camps until after the war. There are things people just didn't talk about. To &quot;let it all hang out&quot; became popular only in the late sixties and thereafter. But for the sake of historical accuracy both sides need to be heard and Mr. Bacque has done us this service for which he deserves our gratitude.	2001-07-04
US	53024363	R2ORVUAP5R4V5K	006065581X	829859759	The Gospel of Thomas: The Hidden Sayings of Jesus	Books	4	18	25	N	Y	Did Jesus really say all this?	The Gospel of Thomas is part of gnostic literature which purports  to give the most accurate data on the sayings of the historical Jesus. Yet on reading Marvin Meyer's translation one wonders to what extent this claim is justified. A great many of the 114 sayings can also be found in the synoptic gospels and those which appear to be new, especially in regard to women, may or may not have come from Jesus' lips. This is not a critque of Prof. Meyer's efforts who has given a very scholarly presentation but  is the inherent problem when one takes the person of Jesus, who is known to us practically only from the Gospels, as well as from some derogatroy comments in the Talmud (see noahide.com) and then tries to decipher what He actually did or did not say. This applies of course also to the &quot;Jesus Seminar&quot; where inspite of scholarly efforts a majority vote is not likely to yield scientific truth.  Theologians and religious scholars will find the notes Prof. Meyer enclosed very instructive but the average reader, who might expect a major surpise from the Gospel of Thomas is likely to be disappointed	2001-07-03
US	53024363	RPNYLX43ZSMO8	0060671122	352955907	Sacred Roads: Adventures from the Pilgrimage Trail	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Outstanding Personal Quest	Nicholas Shrady allows us to join him on an arduous quest for the spirit which suffuses the world's great religions. For those of us who are no longer young and cannot physically traverse the Sacred Roads he allows us to join him in spirit. The descriptions of the &quot;Holy Places&quot; from Medjugorje, through the rivertrip down the Ganges, the trek across Northern India into Nepal in pursuit of the Buddha's footsteps, the pilgrimage to Santiago de Compostela, Palestine and eventually Anatolia are most vivid and so are the encounters with others of God's children on the road. His experiences in the &quot;Promised Land&quot; struck an especially responsive chord since I had undergone similar tribulations by El Al personnel, although I was spared a rectal examination. Finally I am grateful to Dr. Shrady for having introduced me to Rumi whom I had not yet counted among my acquaintances. Having said all this let me warn readers that this book is an honest account and as such may not be viewed with favor by some whose religion demands adherence to dogma rather than an inner feeling of God in all His manifold works.	2001-04-23
US	53024363	R3E1ND05GEC1UY	0399143831	163667157	The Murder of Tutankhamen	Books	2	5	5	N	Y	Misleading Title	Dr. Brier leads the reader to believe in the title of the book that Tutankhamen was murdered and this assumption is compounded by the subtitle \\"A True Story.\\" It is based on a set of skull X-rays obtained by Dr. Harrison of the University of Liverpool in 1968 under less than optimal conditions. The \\"X-ray\\" shown in the book in fig.25 is actually a photograph of the real plate and Dr. Connolly of the University of Liverpool who is currently in charge of the X-rays has also sent me this photo. I have shown it to several neuroradiologists here at the University of Utah and the verdict was unanimous that no conclusions can be drawn from the picture because it is too ambiguous. This was also the verdict of the radiologists at Liverpool. Fig. 26 gives the impression that Dr. Brier is looking at an actual X-ray on the view box when in fact it is the same photo which I have in my possession. Brier and Irwin have never seen the actual X-rays! Dr. Connolly with whom - as a neurologist - I have been in touch for several years, has not released a copy of the X-rays to me until September of 2001 when they were used in the Discovery Channel's \\"The Assassination of King Tut, which was shown here and in the UK recently. The video, obviously based on this book, presents in essence Brier's conclusions... In spite of what one sees on the Discovery channel video the X-rays are normal and will now be presented to the medical community.The final sentence in Brier's book, before the Epilogue, \\"...the most reasonable explanation is that Aye is guilty of the murder of Tuthankhamen...\\" is pure fantasy. So is the video's conclusion that \\"justice has been done.\\" Book and video properly belong in the realm of historical fiction. As such they make nice reading and viewing but one should not expect to find a solution to the riddle of King Tutankhamen's death. The murder theory cannot be substantiated using the 1968 skull X-rays, which show only post-mortem artifacts.	2000-03-17
US	53024363	R3N72F78QW6AE1	0828320276	677626992	Jews!	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Important contribution	Berkley discusses Jews - as people - in clear authoritative language and thereby destroys the favorite myth of &quot;The Jew&quot; which has brought so much misery in the past century. He shows the good and the bad and is  not afraid of calling a spade a spade. The book can be strongly recommended  to Jews and Gentiles because it broadens one's view.	2000-02-07
US	53024363	R18A1YB7FPKWD2	0880333812	355162514	The Haider Phenomenon	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Austria and Haider	Sully's book The Haider Phenomenon is most welcome and should be required reading for media pundits and politicians who love one liners and 30 second  sound bites. The book is especially important and topical in view of the  Freedom party's entry into the Austrian government and the attendant  international uproar. Sully presents the complexity of the picture in clear  authoritative language. She provides also the context of the original  statements by Haider which have given rise to so much negative  publicity.The book neither praises nor blames Haider and his Freedom party  but just gives the facts. This is a most welcome exception to the  propaganda the American public is constantly subjected to.  Thank you and  congratulations Ms. Sully	2000-02-04
US	53024363	R1U417DEZPL0WR	0521593697	488902368	Esau's Tears: Modern Anti-Semitism and the Rise of the Jews	Books	4	27	36	N	Y	the book is informative and provides useful references	As the previous reviews show antisemitism is such an emotionally laden topic that even a balanced view as represented in Esau's Tears is subjected to vehement criticism. Personally I found it to be an excellent review and  the references especially in regard to Russia have been exceedingly helpful  in my work. The book should be read and discussed in a dispassionate rather  than polemic fashion.	1999-10-13
