US	53029856	RTH0YAHAUN154	0451207777	139072299	Dark Waters:: An Insider's Account of the NR-1 The Cold War's Undercover Nuclear Sub	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Fascinating little known story	No one is quite sure when Admiral Rickover decided the Navy needed a small nuclear-powered submarine that could drive along the deepest depths of the ocean and be used for a variety of missions.  The civilian world had been using deep-sea submersibles for some time, but it was not until the Thresher accident that everyone realized the need for a vessel that could remain underwater at the deepest depths for very long periods of time.  It was developed and built under conditions of extreme secrecy and was never even designated a warship. It had a variety of bizarre features, including tires on the bottom of the hull that would literally permit it to drive along the bottom, and sideways thrusters fore and aft that allowed it to hover in  one exact position.<br /> Lee Vyborny was one of the original crew members on the tiny NR-1, a sub that contained a midget nuclear reactor, which developed a mere 130 horsepower, of which only 60 could be used for propulsion.  The crew quarters were tiny, and there was no stateroom for the commander, who would usually sleep on the floor next to the control panel. The reactor was designed so it could be operated by one man because the crew never exceeded eight people, usually only four on duty at any given time.<br /> In an uncharacteristic mistake, Rickover tried to keep the cost of development and building down and required that as many of the ship's components as possible be purchased off-the-shelf. He was under the mistaken impression that the commercial deep sea industry was well developed and the parts standardized.  At the same time, he insisted on testing these parts under the most extreme conditions.  They had never been designed for the role he intended, and the result was costly failures and time spent to develop alternatives.  The early computer they used was a midget and capable of only fourteen simultaneous operations, in contrast to the original PC, which could do many thousands at once.<br /> Rickover's presence was ubiquitous. Everyone was suitably cowed, but he knew the bureaucracy well and how to manipulate them. The story of the two dead mice is illustrative. A habitability team was due for an inspection. Their job was to verify that a new ship was liveable.  The NR-1 had so many discomforts for the crew, Rickover knew he might be in trouble, so he sent out an aide to find two dead mice and to hide them in the boat.  The habitability team was delighted to find a dead mouse, thinking they would be able to reprimand the famous admiral.  Instead, they were the ones on the receiving end. He told them they had done a terrible job and didn't belong in the Navy. &quot;I know there were two dead mice on that boat,&quot; he shouted, &quot;I bought them! You only found one! Get out of here!&quot;<br /> When lambasted by the General Accounting Office for the NR-1's cost overruns and asked to explain the excess, Rickover replied with a sarcastic letter, reprinted in full in the book,   suggesting their analysis was similar to a review of Lady Chatterly's Lover by Field and Stream magazine. The letter concluded, &quot;A cursory review of the subject report leads me to conclude that its authors, likewise, lack comprehension in the manner of accomplishing research and development.  Therefore, I believe no useful purpose would be served by detailed comments on my part.&quot;<br /> In order to withstand the enormous pressures at depths to which the little sub was expected to go, the hull had to be perfectly round. The twelve-and-a-half-foot diameter hull could be out of round by no more than 1/16th of an inch.  That required special manufacturing processes. The crew had to undergo special psychological tests to see whether they could stand being cooped up in tiny spaces for long periods. Submariners who had been successful at resisting the stresses of a regular submarine wound up in fistfights after just a few days when tested under the conditions expected on the NR-1.<br /> The boat was expected to remain under  water indefinitely, but practical considerations limited the length of the voyages:  food and waste.  The ship had no galley, so the crew subsisted on TV dinners purchased in large quantities and kept frozen until they were needed, and when the waste tank was full, they had to surface.<br /> Ironically, the NR-1 has outlasted larger and more famous mega-submarines. According to the author, it continues to conduct classified missions in addition to being a valuable resource for many universities and research institutes for tamer exploratory searches of the ocean's depths.	2004-03-25
US	53029856	R2FL5ETXC45H5N	0385507879	172781303	Power Failure: The Inside Story of the Collapse of Enron	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Must Read	Ken Lay was the product of a very religious background in a small Midwestern town. During work on his PhD in economics, he became enamored of the world of stocks. He parlayed InterNorth, a small energy company into Enron. He was a rich man, having made $4 million in stock value increases from the merger of Houston Gas into InterNorth, later renamed Enron. He was also the highest paid CEO in the United States. The company's strengths were also its weakness: the constant risk-taking; the high debt load to ward off potential takeovers; \\"impassioned embrace of deregulation;\\" constant reorganization; and instant adoption of the hottest new business ideas.  They were soon struggling for cash.<br /> In the meantime, Lay had created a new culture at Enron.  It was his belief that all one had to do was hire the best and the brightest, provide a free environment, and things would take care of themselves. He also had trouble saying no to anyone.  He hired an old friend to be the \\"bad guy,\\" but it soon became apparent to all that if you made money for the company you could get whatever you wanted. <br /> Watkins was hailed in 2001, following the collapse of Enron, as a heroine for her \\"whistle-blowing.\\" Whether her actions actually constitute that appellation is open to question.  Certainly she was an insider, and her account reveals a great deal more of the financial shenanigans in greater detail than the previous book I reviewed, Anatomy of Greed.   She interacted constantly with Lay, Skilling and Fastow, and if she got really nervous about what she was seeing, perhaps whistle-blowing was just a way of protecting her posterior. <br /> What started out as a new paradigm, a different way of delivering energy, soon became a case of the blind leading the blind, or a corporate version of Dumb and Dumber, as the board and Enron employees  began creating numerous new ways of hiding losses, even making losses look like revenue.  It was a huge, ever-increasing house of cards.<br /> Watkins is an accountant and naturally had a strong sense of the financial improprieties the company had embarked upon, but the impending doom she warned of in her now-famous memo to Lay should have been obvious to everyone.  Enron's own head of research said presciently, &quot;Every era gets the clowns it deserves.&quot; <br /> If they ever make a movie of this book, it will have to be a comedy. It is astonishing how stupid many of the \\"best and brightest\\" graduates of American business schools were, as they bellied up to the trough of corporate greed. Sherron made an attempt to meet with Ken Lay, but first she had to convince his personal secretary to arrange a meeting.  The secretary informed Watkins that  \\"Ken gravitates toward good news. . . .\\" It did not bode well for the meeting. Another insider told her to make the presentation as simple as possible and eliminate any accounting jargon.  She obliged and reworked her presentation so that her two-year-old daughter could understand it.  The meeting was a flop, and it was clear to her that Lay could not understand - or perhaps did not want to understand - a thing she was talking about.   <br /> Ironically, Osama Bin Laden's exploits barely dented the US economy.  Lay's machinations and the subsequent stock free fall provided a vicious slambang.	2004-03-25
US	53029856	R1087T0NSH7YXT	0385497466	376574359	The Brethren	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Just good fun.  Not to be taken seriously	Grisham has to be one of the most cynical authors writing legal fiction today.  Everyone is corrupt, thinking only of himself, and money rules.<br /> The \\"Brethren\\" are three ex-judges who have been incarcerated in a minimum security federal prison for a variety of avaricious crimes.  While in prison, they procure the services of Trevor, a greedy little lawyer who agrees to act as the go-between in a dirty scheme to extort money from gay men who are fearful of being outed.  Trevor bribes the prison guards to look the other way while he \\"smuggles\\" in forbidden documents and deposits their ill-begotten proceeds in an off-shore bank account.  It's all very sordid.<br /> A subplot, that becomes mixed with the affairs of the Brethren concerns Teddy Maynard, director of the CIA, who, appalled by the fall of communism and the concomitant reduction in military spending, conspires to find a candidate  of suitable malleability, whom he can groom to be the next president. Aaron Lake, handsome, widowed, a light drinker, with no political baggage, seems the perfect choice. Just to be on the safe side, though, Maynard has Lake followed everywhere. By instigating terrorist actions at the appropriate time, and collecting huge amounts of money from weapons manufacturers who stand to reap huge profits from Lake's sole campaign promise:  to double the defense budget; Maynard assures that Lake soon has a commanding lead over the vice-president, the previous front runner.  Maynard will stop at nothing, including orchestrating a murder,  to realize his dream of controlling the president.<br /> While following Lake, Maynard's agents discover he has a PO Box hidden away.  They \\"borrow\\" the mail - notice the CIA has already been involved in several gross violations of the law, all in the name of national security - and discover to their horror that their \\"perfect\\" candidate is conducting a surreptitious correspondence with a young man looking for a wealthy male gigolo. We know that the young man, Ricky\\" is really the creation of the Brethren.  The Brethren, always careful, learn who  \\"AL\\" really is, and see a huge windfall in the making. What better extortion candidate than someone running for president.  Soon they realize that there is a third party involved, a very powerful group of men, but they are determined to make the most of the situation. The ending, which I won't reveal, is less a blockbuster than a revelation of Grisham's sordid view of the world.	2004-03-25
US	53029856	R64YNLNPDEPBA	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	5	15	20	N	N	Well done, but take with liberal doses of salt.	If you liked the Da Vinci Code, you will love this book also. It has a great conspiracy, this time concerning the Illuminati, lots of artistic and historical detail, and also features Robert Langdon, the intrepid art historian from Cambridge. <br /> Summoned to Switzerland by a strange fax he receives in the middle of the night from the director of CERN, Langdon learns of the murder of Leonardo Vetra, one of CERN's brilliant scientists, who had been working with his daughter, Victoria, on a way to harness anti-matter. Antimatter has astonishing characteristics; a tiny sample about the size of a grain of sand is hypothesized to hold \\"as much energy as about two hundred metric tons of rocket fuel.\\" They have succeeded in suspending the violent substance in a vacuum.   They learn to their horror that a vial of it has been stolen and hidden in the Vatican; it will explode when the battery pack keeping the material suspended runs out. There seems to be a conspiracy of Illuminati supporters to destroy the church.  The pope has just died (killed as we later learn - I'll try not to give away too much), and the cardinals have all been called together to elect a new pope.<br /> The Illuminati were supposedly a group of science-minded rationalists who abhorred the church's spiritual basis for reality, hence their desire to obliterate the church. (If I told you what was really going on, it would ruin the suspense, of course.)  Supposedly, Italy's most enlightened men of the sixteenth century, physicists, astronomers, and mathematicians banded together to share their concerns about the inaccuracies of the church's teachings.  \\"They feared that the church's monopoly on 'truth' threatened academic enlightenment around the world.  They founded the world's first scientific think tank, calling themselves `the enlightened ones,' \\" i.e., the Illuminati.  Hunted by the church, they were forced to maintain extreme secrecy, but they spread the word through codes and messages and met regularly at a secret location called the Church of Illumination. Lucifer, in Latin, means bringer of light or illuminator. <br /> There is some interesting history of iconography. U.S. currency is supposedly covered with Illuminati symbola. The pyramid on the back of a dollar bill is an occult symbol representing \\"a convergence upward, toward the ultimate source of Illumination.  The eye above it, also emblazoned on Masonic lodges around the world - the Masons were thought to be offshoots of the Illuminati - represented the Illuminati's ability to infiltrate and watch all things. \\"The shining triangle represents enlightenment and is also the Greek letter delta, which is the mathematical symbol for change.\\"  The U.S. Great Seal is thus a call for enlightened, all-seeing change and the wording under the pyramid, Novus Ordo Seculorum, means new secular order.  Take all this with liberal doses of salt.<br /> Other pieces of delicious trivia include Pope Pius's emasculation of the male form in statues.  In 1857, he decided that the accurate representation of the male form \\"might incite lust inside the Vatican.  So he got a chisel and mallet and hacked off the genitalia of every single male statue inside Vatican City.  He defaced works by Michelangelo, Bramante, and Bernini [who plays a very important role in this tale].  Plaster fig leaves were used to patch the damage.  Hundreds of sculptures had been emasculated.  Langdon had often wondered if there was a huge crate of stone penises someplace.\\"<br /> Langdon explains how the church pictured \\"satanic cults as devil-worshiping fiends. . .yet Satanists historically were educated men who stood as adversaries to the church,\\" called Shaitan, an Islamic term meaning adversary. \\"The rumors of satanic black-magic animal sacrifices and the pentagram ritual were nothing but lies spread by the church as a smear campaign against their adversaries.  Over time, opponents of the church, wanting to emulate the Illuminati, began believing the lies and acting them out.  Thus, modern Satanism was born.\\" <br /> Langdon uses his knowledge of art history to locate the lair where the assassin who has been hired to kill off the four most likely candidates to the papacy is hiding, and has squirreled away the love interest (typical).<br /> Taken with a tablespoon of salt, the story goes down delectably.  For those wishing to wander down the path to paranoia, see <BR>[...] Rationalists would find the Mason history more illuminating at [...]	2004-03-25
US	53029856	R3ED2BWLKC5NOE	0765307855	321417470	Dynamite Road (Klavan, Andrew)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Entertaining	Scott Weiss, ex-cop, now owner of a private investigation agency, sends Jim Bishop, one of his operatives, to a small airport in northern California. Ray Grambling, part owner of the FBO, has concerns that one of his pilots, Chris Wannamaker, may be involved in some kind of very shady deal with Bernie Hirschorn, the other FBO partner. <br /> Bishop, operating undercover as Frank Kennedy, enjoys living on the edge He pushes Chris to the limit by seducing his wife and spreading rumors about his drinking in hopes that he (Bishop) will be hired to replace Chris as the pilot for the big job that Hirschorn has planned.<br /> In the meantime, Ben Fry, whom we later realize is also know as the Shadowman, has gone to great lengths (even to implanting a device under his skin that won't show up in strip searches) to get himself imprisoned in the most secure prison in California, one reserved for incorrigibles and extremely violent offenders.  <br /> Weiss, during the course of another investigation, realizes that several people have been killed or have disappeared in seemingly unrelated events, and he finds a startling connection. They are all related to Whip, a man who specialized in creating new identities for criminals, identities so secure that once created, no law enforcement agency has been able to penetrate them.  Whip, having knowledge of who became whom, is terrified that he may also have become a target, so he is placed in deep protective custody in a maximum security prison (guess what's coming?).<br /> The book is a little unusual in that we see the story evolve from three points of view:  Bishop's, Weiss's, and the first-person narrative of another Weiss employee. He stands in awe of Weiss's understanding of human nature. The narrator, whose name we never learn, inadvertently solves the Case of the Spanish Virgin and discovers some key elements of the case against the Shadowman.   If this all sounds a little hokey, I suppose that's because it is.  Still, a very entertaining read.	2004-03-25
US	53029856	R337250JZSVLSM	0345329082	578369457	Julian	Books	5	8	12	N	N	A Classic	Julian the Apostate was emperor of Rome from 361-363 CE and the nephew of Constantine.  Raised in a strict Christian environment (although of the Arian tradition), he formally announced his conversion to paganism in 361 and became a public enemy of Christianity.<BR>    That provides the background for Vidal's excellent historical novel (historical in the best sense in that Vidal tried to use as many actual events and recorded conversations as possible). Vidal is, of course, rather flagrant in rejecting Christianity himself, so  it is easy to see why Julian's gradual rejection of what he viewed as a faith filled with contradictions both in belief and behavior would be appealing to Vidal.  <BR>  The book is told from Julian's point of view as a form of autobiography with little side social commentaries of two of his friends.  The debate between the supporters of Athanasius (who finally won out) and the Arians is well explained. In the fourth century (see also When Jesus Became God  (BT216 .R83 1999),  reviewed in an earlier issue, the debate over the divinity of Jesus was of huge consequence. The Arians (basing their case on John 14:25) believed in the doctrine of homoiousios: Jesus was a similar substance to God the father but created by him. The followers of Athanasius adopted that \\"pernicious doctrine\\" later codified in the Nicene Creed of homoousius (meaning that God, Jesus, and the Holy Spirit are one and the same). <BR>     It was essential for Julian to pretend to be one of the Galileans, as Christians were called then, because it was the declared religion of Rome after Constantine. As a potential successor to the throne, he was subject to all sorts of plots and political machinations, and these dangers form much of the tension of the book, as Julian tries to remain alive posing as a student of philosophy with no interest in politics. Julian's childhood was that of a prince with all that entails, including constant supervision, little access to people besides his siblings, and strict regulation of behavior. Julian's cousin, the reigning emperor Constantius, fearing for his throne, systematically murdered those who might be a threat -- especially his relatives -- so Julian had to tread very carefully. Fortunately, Julian was needed to be the titular head of Gaul, so he was removed from Athens, married to Constantius's sister, Helena, and sent to barbarian Europe. Julian, whom the emperor suspected had no military prowess, surprised everyone with his  skill in battle as well as administratively, even though his hands were often tied by Constantius's Florentius, who had a great deal of administrative control.  Constantius's  attempts to subdue the Persians was to prove his undoing, and when he demanded that virtually all of Julian's troops be sent to him - despite Julian's promise to the troops from Gaul that they would not have to serve outside the province - those troops rebelled and demanded that Julian be appointed Julian Augustus, i.e., Emperor of the West.  Helena, by this time, even though she was sister to Constantius, sided with Julian, because she knew that her brother had murdered her two children because he feared them as threats to his throne. Before a civil could result Constantius died.<BR> Julian's (Vidal's?) comments on power and the corrupting role of imperialism are as pertinent today as they might have been two centuries ago: \\" Wherever there is a throne, one may observe in rich detail every folly and wickedness of which man is capable, enameled with manners and gilded with hypocrisy.\\" \\"I have often felt when studying history that not enough is made of those intermediaries who so often do the actual governing. . . As a result, factions within the court could form and reform, irrelevant to the nominal power. . . .On the throne of the world, any delusion can become fact.\\"  The corruption and greed become palpable in Vidal's words. <BR> Vidal uses a triple narrative technique that intersperses Julian's \\"autobiography\\" with comments by two contemporaries, a philosopher and a rhetorician,  whose views do not always coincide with Julian's, permitting Vidal to offer disparate views of events. Julian is ultimately portrayed as a pagan philosopher-leader struggling against the hypocrisy of the new Galilean religion and trying to recapture the glory of the lost Hellenistic past.<BR>    Julian used his military and imperial rights to revive paganism and subdue the upstart Christian cult, but was killed - Vidal suggests by one of his own men, perhaps at the direction of the bishops - during the war against the Persians. <BR>    Vidal has vividly captured the intense political maneuvering and danger of being in line to succeed to the throne. This is historical fiction at its nail-biting best.	2004-03-25
US	53029856	RCNKCN31PMK9T	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	5	1	4	N	N	Not balanced but accurate	This very funny but extremely serious book goes after the deliberate falsehoods perpetrated by the right-wing on \\"liberals.\\" <BR> As you may know, the Fox Network went after Franken for trademark infringement because he used the phrase \\"fair and balanced.\\" The judge threw out the suit as completely ludicrous and made several trenchant comments about the inability of the Fox executives to recognize satire when they saw it<BR>.<BR> Harvard University gave Franken a fellowship to basically do whatever he wanted, but demurred at his idea of having Harvard students write his son's college application, but Harvard demurred.  He finally hit upon the idea of having a group of students do research for his book. They bought the idea.<br /> His first target is Ann Coulter, author of Scandal. Franken methodically picks apart her book, revealing it for the inaccurate, if not disingenuous, piece of nonsense it is. He also shows how she has blatantly lied about things.  Her Connecticut driver's license shows her birth date as 1961; her Washington DL says 1963.  She claims the Washington DL is correct, which means she voted as a sixteen-year-old.  On one of the applications she lied about her age. Now, many people have done that, but since the US Patriot Act makes it a felony to put false information on a government ID, she could be whisked away and held without counsel for a long time.  I wish they would.  Simple charges she makes in her book were never checked.  For example, she complains that Evan Thomas, supposedly one of those heinous liberals, was the son of Norman Thomas, four-time [sic] candidate for president on the Socialist party ticket. Actually, he ran six times, and a simple phone call to Evan Thomas reveals that he is not the son of Norman Thomas.  Coulter's book is filled with such false details.  Either she is extremely lazy or a blatant liar.  Franken obviously suspects the latter.<br /> Francken has infuriated that scion of right-wing Fox Bill O'Reilly by publicly pointing out many untruths that O'Reilly has put forth. At Book Expo in Los Angeles, O'Reilly was humiliated by Franken, who categorically listed all sorts of lies O'Reilly had perpetrated on the public. Now, Franken makes clear that occasionally making a mistake on a statistic is hardly a crime, but O'Reilly's customary tactic, when challenged with the correct information from unimpeachable sources is to simply bully and yell at his challenger rather than correct the mistake.  The problem is also that he makes lots of mistakes.  More from the \\"sewer of right-wing dishonesty.  When he interviewed the son of a worker killed on 9/11 on February 4th, 2003, he became enraged at the son's opposition to the war in Iraq, had his engineer cut off the man's microphone, and sent him packing saying to him after the show's end,  \\"Get out of my studio before I tear you to f*cking pieces.\\"  <br /> O'Reilly, who constantly rails at the lyrics of rap songs, wrote a murder mystery in 1998, Those who Trespass (about a serial killer who murders everyone who interferes with his rising television career), that took explicit sex and violence to new heights and the English language to new lows. In one murder, the victim is killed by having a spoon driven through the roof of her mouth into her brain stem. Variants of the \\"F\\" word and \\"B\\" word are used more than 51 times. Case of the pot calling the kettle black? O'Reilly is not a nice man. <br /> Team Franken took a look at Hannity's (of Hannity and Colmes,) book to verify the factualness of his statements. Examples of disingenuousness and dishonesty abound. <br /> Bush's initial indifference to al Qaeda prior to 9/11 is astonishing.  The Clinton administration had developed plans for eliminating Bin Laden, but those plans were ignored.  That the Bin Laden family were good friends with the Bush family is well-known, and Franken speculates as to what might have happened to Clinton had he been so nice to the Bin Laden family, permitting aSaudi plane to fly around the country picking up family members for return to Saudi Arabia, while American airplanes were grounded.  In the meantime, President Bush has broken all presidential records for the number of days spent on vacation.<br /> The book is often uneven, some parts funnier and some more serious.  Should one laugh or cry learning that many of our leaders today, Cheney, Wolfowitz, Perle, Bush, and other chickenhawks who are sending men off to die in war, did everything in their power, having their fathers pull strings and inventing flimsy excuses (shouldn't pick on Limbaugh, I think he was just too fat) to avoid service in Vietnam.	2004-03-25
US	53029856	R3TMTZJH8VS9BO	0446611638	239093791	Lost Light (Harry Bosch)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Can't put Connelly down!	I read (or listen) to everything Michael Connelly writes, and he never disappoints.  This is the ninth novel featuring Hieronymus (Harry) Bosch, who remains dedicated to uncovering the truth no matter where it might lead.  Harry has retired from the LAPD, disillusioned by his countless battles with police bureaucracy and hypocrisy, but he   remains haunted by the sight of a murdered victim's hands that were arranged by the killer in almost a supplication.  He decides to track down a few leads to see if he might get somewhere. The case involved the death of Angela Benton, who had worked for a bank that loaned $2 million in cash to a movie company to be used as part of a set during a movie.  The cash was taken during a robbery on the set. <br /> In a seemingly unrelated case, Harry has been called to visit a cop who had been paralyzed during a shooting in which his partner had been killed. Harry learns that an FBI agent had been killed in a seemingly separate case, but before she died she had discovered an anomaly in the list of serial numbers of the $100 bills heisted from the movie set. Harry wonders if there might possibly be a connection between the three cases and begins to investigate.<br /> Suddenly he's confronted by stone walls and official FBI and police notice that he stay as far away from the case as possible. After he tries to borrow some files from the paralyzed cop, he's unceremoniously taken by FBI, to facilities they use to keep suspected terrorists under wraps. He learns that the elite Homeland Security Team is involved in the case and is using its dictatorial authority and secret powers to maintain control of the case.<BR> That's when the book gets really interesting, because Harry captures on videotape the FBI manhandling the paralyzed cop.  He had originally installed the equipment to check on the cop's wife, who the cop claims has been abusive to him.  He uses the video to extort information from the FBI and to retrieve information about the original murders that no one would provide.  It's really fun to watch them get manipulated so masterfully.	2004-03-25
US	53029856	R1TG1MAMYVTDMX	0671868691	178377223	Bitter Harvest	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Rule rules	Rule is well-known for her true crime writing and justifiably so. Ever since Truman Capote popularized the form in In Cold Blood, true crime has become a popular genre.<br /> This harrowing book tells the story of Dr. Debora Green, a very bright Kansas physician whose life unraveled into a nightmare of murder and virtual insanity. After her trial for the murder of two of her children and the attempted murder of her husband, Michael Farrar, psychiatrists attempted to answer why something like this could have happened.  Their diagnosis was that Dr. Green had a limited ego, was a very immature person with the emotional responses of a small child.  Ostensibly, she was able to function quite well, until her marriage and the pressures  of raising a family began to stress her life.  She had an IQ of 165 and had zipped through medical school, married a brilliant cardiologist, and borne three children.  The family lived in a large house in the Kansas City suburbs. <br /> By the end of the story Debora had become a violent and irrational monster who had driven away her husband, as she descended into a maelstrom of alcohol, drugs and invective. In hindsight, a house fire that destroyed an earlier home was probably her doing. The final straw was apparently her husband's affair with Celeste Walker, a nurse whose physician husband had committed suicide.  The family had returned from a long-awaited vacation to South America, when Mike became deathly ill. He could keep no food down and suffered constant diarrhea.  His condition puzzled the clinicians because the symptoms did not seem to match anything in their knowledge base. The only thing they could think of was that perhaps Mike had picked up some kind of virulent bug while traveling, but none of the others who had been on the trip had suffered anything beyond the normal traveler's stomach problems that quickly disappeared. <br /> Bouts of his illness always seemed to come after he had been released from the hospital and  had eaten food served by his wife. After what seemed - to me - an interminable period he began to suspect that perhaps Debora might be trying to poison him.  One afternoon when she was out, he searched her purse and discovered several packages of Castor beans. Warnings on the package labels revealed that these beans contain a very toxic poison called Ricin.  Normally, the beans could be swallowed whole without much difficulty because they had such a hard shell, and the beans would pass through the system without causing any ill effects, but if crushed, they could be terribly destructive.  Mike also realized his wife had just finished an Agatha Christie novel in which the murder is committed using Ricin.<br /> Several months later, a fire, clearly arson, broke out in their house. Mike had moved out in preparation for a divorce. Two of the children died, trapped in their bedrooms by a fire, fed with accelerants, that blocked access to the hall and the stairs. The responding police and firemen were immediately struck by the mother's bizarre behavior, talking of her children in the past tense, even before anyone knew whether they had been killed or not. Eventually, she confessed to all charges and escaped the death penalty with a guilty plea. <br /> A truly tragic story spellbindingly told by Rule, a master of the genre.	2004-03-25
US	53029856	R1HSE38PFGEUFB	0446531782	514796291	Private Sector	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Love wisecracks	I just love wise-cracking protagonists; they have a skill I've never been able to develop. Sean Drummond is the JAG attorney creation of Brian Haig, son of Alexander (you know, of \\"Don't worry, Alex is here. I'm in charge, so nothing to worry about\\" fame), but I won't hold that against him. <BR> Major Drummond has been asked to spend a year working for a private law firm - Culper, Hutch, and Westin - that represent some of the District of Columbia's most respectable institutions, as an experiment in army/private sector cooperation. The fact that he is unpopular with his army superiors for his sharp tongue and insubordination might also have had something to do with it. Drummond begins irritating his stuffed shirt bosses from the moment he arrives. He figures if he makes himself sufficiently unpopular, he can get himself kicked out of the program, where he follows in the footsteps at the law firm of Lisa Morrow, another JAG officer and Sean's erstwhile old flame.<BR> Lisa had been killed in the Pentagon parking lot just before a dinner date that Sean hopes might rekindle some of the former embers.  Her death is followed by three others, all the ostensible work of a serial killer whose modus operandi appears very similar to that of the LA Killer of several years before, i.e., the victims' necks had all been snapped.  There was no apparent connection between the victims.<BR> Sean, in the meantime has become embroiled in an audit of Morris Telecommunications, a company that has retained his law firm.  Sean discovers some unusual financial arrangements, but he has no reason to suspect anything particularly nefarious until his brother, a financial wizard with spreadsheets, points out that several \\"swaps\\" on Morris's books put Sean's firm in some financial jeopardy. (Swaps are what sank Enron.  Basically, two entities get together to show revenue on their books for the largely insubstantial use of each other's services.  It's a way of propping up income statements to keepstock prices up, all legal according to generally accepted accounting principles, but another reason to shoot the accountants before going after the lawyers. :)) )  Drummond also begins to realize that the firm's attorneys might be capitalizing on his inexperience with corporate law to set him up as a fall guy.  They to reckon without his long experience as a criminal attorney for the army.<BR> In the meantime, Janet Morrow, Lisa's sister and assistant district attorney in Boston, has decided to follow the investigation into her sister's death from close up. She and Sean discover that Lisa's emails had been hidden and quarantined in the firm's network behind a secure firewall. Sean is accused of malfeasance by the firm, but by some not-so-subtle pressure on the privates of his boss (in a very funny scene), Sean extorts the help of the firm's computer expert to examine Lisa's emails.  It's there that he discovers a link between the victims.  Lisa had known all of them.<BR> Soon Drummond is snared  in a mesh of conflicting loyalties, as he discovers that some governmental agencies are involved in some very secret business.  A fun read.  Drummond is a great character who ranks with Nelson DeMille's wiseacre CID investigator.	2004-03-25
US	53029856	R2CGZRJCCXTFHP	0671041401	554020976	The Shot	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Enjoyed immensely	Contrary to some of the other reviewers here, I enjoyed this a great deal. It was an interesting concept, well executed. It really holds your attention, and while you might suspect it's another \\"what if\\" historical novel, it's not that at all. Revealing the ending would ruin the read, so I'll merely suggest that you read and enjoy.  I would concur with others though who suggest The Shot is not up to his Berlin Noir trilogy.  I think they may be the best detective novels of the century.	2003-05-25
US	53029856	R22FFQ1BLAEJQU	0892967188	747660556	Put a Lid on It	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Shades of Watergate	This is vintage Westlake and a bitter satire of government.  <BR>    All of Westlake's characters have runs of bad luck and Franci (not Frank, thank you) Meehan is no exception. Meehan is a non-violent career criminal who has just been incarcerated at the Manhattan Correctional Center awaiting sentencing on a federal charge (how was he to know the truck he was hijacking was carrying registered mail in addition to computer parts). He is approached by Jeffords, obviously a lawyer, who makes him a strange proposition.  Jeffords whisks Meehan off to the Outer Banks in a corporate jet. The U.S. president's campaign committee needs a burglary performed, and they've learned a lesson from Watergate: If you need a successful burglary, hire a professional burglar. Amateurs, they are, they pick one in prison. They want Meehan to steal a very incriminating videotape from a supporter of the opposing party.  All charges will be dropped if he can pull it off.<BR>      Meehan is no fool, however, hates to work with amateurs - that would violate one of the \\"ten-thousand rules\\" -  and he works his own little sting in the midst of the large one.  He enlists his own crew to lift the video from the estate of a wacko millionaire all the while trying to protect himself from  incompetent but malicious forces (rent-a-thugs from the rival campaign and some errant Middle-Eastern types) who want the video for their own purposes.<BR>      In this humorous crime caper, Westlake is at his cynical and impudent best.	2003-02-19
US	53029856	R1WSU61KJU529P	0802776175	923264418	The Perfect Heresy: The Revolutionary Life and Death of the Cathars	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Excellent very readable history	My interest in the Cathars was piqued upon reading The Archer's Tale by Bernard Cornwell. The Cathar heresy rose to prominence in the late 12th and early 13th centuries in what is now called Languedoc in southern France.  At that time, the area consisted of city-states that thrived in the tolerant and liberal environment (Stadtluft macht frei - city air makes one free - was the rallying cry of  medieval cities to describe the nascent liberties and independence available only in cities)  <BR> The Cathars were also known as the Albigensians and, of course, claimed to be the true Christians.  Their clergy were poor and ascetic, known as the Perfects. Their beliefs infuriated  Pope Innocent III and threatened the Catholic Church in addition to standard feudal relationships. They believed the world was not a creation of a good God, but the construction of a force of darkness. All worldly things were thus corrupt. This included Church sacraments, including that of marriage. In addition, they believed there was no such thing as private property, and the rich trappings and property of the church represented evil. Women were accorded a place equal to men.  \\"Matter was corrupt, therefore irrelevant to salvation.\\"  Worldly authority was a fraud.  \\"The god deserving of Cathar worship was a god of light, who ruled the invisible, the ethereal, the spiritual domain; this god, unconcerned with the material, simply didn't care if you got into bed before being married, had a Jew or Muslim for a friend ... or did anything else contrary to the teachings of the medieval Church.\\"  The individual had to decide for him/herself whether to renounce the material for a life of self-denial.  \\"Hell was here, not in some horrific afterlife dreamed up by Rome to scare people out of their wits.\\"  The Church itself was a hoax.   No wonder Innocent was pissed.<BR> The Albigensian Crusade unleashed by Innocent has passed down a catchword to us: \\"Kill them all, God will know his own.\\" That phrase is attributed to Arnold Amaury, the monk Innocent placed in charge.   His instructions were followed to the letter, and the entire population of Beziers was killed - about 20,000 people.  The crusade lasted from 1209-1229 and was unremitting in its violence and cruelty.  O'Shea suggests it resulted in the first police state, and so devastated the region that the French monarchy  was able to expand its territory into southern France.<BR> The ostensible spark that lit the fire was the murder of Peter of Castlenau.  He and several other legates had been sent by Innocent to reason, i.e., convert, the heretics. They had little initial success.  Imagine a retinue of rich representatives from Rome, surrounded by sycophants ,trying to persuade a dedicated group of ascetics of their essential goodness and humility.  When Saint Dominic (Latin wordplay later mocked the Dominican order he founded by calling them domini canes, i.e., the dogs of god) entered the scene, he recognized their error and convinced Innocent to tone things down.   The feudal lord , Raymond of Toulouse, was excommunicated for the murder of Peter. He denied having anything to do with it, shades of Henry II and Thomas Beckett, but was forced to publicly humiliate himself and give up a great deal in order to get back in the good graces of the pope.  Excommunication was a potent weapon in those days.<BR> The Inquisition ripped apart the bonds of trust that are needed to hold a civil society together. Encouraged to inform on heretics, people often used informing on one's neighbor or kinsman as a strategy to eliminate people they didn't like or to whom they were in debt.  For over 100 years, the Inquisition was a fact of life, as the dreaded Dominicans, often assisted by Franciscans, ruthlessly burned those tainted by the brand of unorthodox beliefs.  Many of the inquisitors, like Jacques Fournier, later Pope Benedict XII, were extremely efficient - indeed the first Gestapo,   as Jews were forced to wear yellow circles and persecuted just as vigorously as the Cathars -  assiduously writing down everything and cross-referencing testimony in order to trap those who might be trying to hide their beliefs. Torture was officially sanctioned, although they were admonished not to sever limbs. Even the dead were not immune.  Suspected of heretical beliefs, their bodies were dug up and burned.  Entire communities were burned in huge pyres.  Eventually, by the early 14th century, a backlash began, and the so-called \\"Spiritual Franciscans\\" led by Bernard Delicieux articulately argued that the prosecution of \\"a moribund faith had degenerated into an abuse of power.\\"  He despised the Dominicans for their slide into worldliness, but he made the fatal mistake of decrying the wealth of the Church.  Fittingly, his brand of apocalyptic piety was declared heretical in 1317.  More people to kill.<BR> Today, we witness a touristic resurrection of the Cathars, signs all over Languedoc point to Cathar places of interest, and all sorts of myths and legends have been created around them, attributing hoards of vast hidden treasures and even Nazi links to a sect that celebrated poverty and abjured anything official.  Figures.	2003-02-19
US	53029856	R39KF295PBCDNE	156663217X	869552450	To Sleep with the Angels: The Story of a Fire	Books	5	19	24	N	N	Riveting	The devastating fire that occurred in early December 1958 at Our Lady of the Angels School in Chicago had a lasting impact on school construction.  Almost before the 5-11 alarm was struck and more than eighty fire companies arrived on the scene, 92 children and 3 nuns died, most of them on the second floor of one wing. <BR>   The authors interviewed many survivors and have woven their searing recollections into a nightmarish tale of bravery, cupidity and foolishness. <BR>     The building was a typical parochial school of the fifties and had been reviewed by a fire inspector just days before the fire. It was old, had windows set high off the floor to discourage  children from playing on them (many of the youngsters were too small to reach the window ledges to jump), and the building had several layers of tar on the roof after several reroofings. All this tar prevented the fire from going through the roof and venting the smoke that became deadly. Had each older layer been stripped, the interior of the building would not have become so hot and smoky so quickly, providing more time for the children to escape. The floors consisted of highly varnished, dry, and highly inflammable wood.  The stairwells were open without doors at each end and they acted like chimneys, spreading the fire quickly and preventing exiting by the normal fire routes.  Several rooms had two doors, but one was usually locked (the nuns had keys, but one teacher realized to her horror as she tried to shepherd children out of the room through a back door, that she had left her keys at home that day. Only the bravery of the janitor and a priest who ran back into the burning building and broke the door saved several of the children. Finally, the school was over-enrolled and the classes filled to beyond capacity (some classrooms had as many as sixty children.)<BR>     The Chicago fire code required that new construction stairwells be constructed of non-combustible materials, but the law was did not require existing building to retrofit the buildings. The school also did not have a sprinkler system.<BR>     Despite a massive investigation, authorities could only determine that the fire had most probably been set, but they could find no evidence who was responsible. Separate and independent investigations resulted in two confessions.  Obviously, both could not be valid.  The most likely scenario supported by what little evidence they could accumulate was the fire was probably set by a boy with a history of fire-setting who was sent to a juvenile home in Michigan for having set other fires.  He admitted to setting the fire at Our Lady of the Angels where he had been a student, but he later recanted the confession.  He later served a tour in Vietnam and again denied to the authors that he had set the fire at the school.  To this day the fire is officially listed as \\"undetermined cause;\\" the church insists the cause was accidental<BR>      Many students had been very seriously burned and their ordeal continues to this day. Numerous painful skin grafts could not eliminate the physical and psychological scarring. The Chicago Diocese paid $7,500 per dead child and awards up to $35,000 for those badly injured. They were anxious to put the whole matter to bed as quietly as possible. Gee, that sounds familiar. A fund set up to help defray medical expenses that continue to 1995, when the book was published, was legally closed out in 1994.  <BR>     Many of the survivors suffered from \\"survivor's guilt,\\" a condition made worse by the \\"literal canonization of victims by some nuns, who, fueled by their own repressed grief, explained to the children that `only the good ones were taken.' \\" Recalled one survivor,\\" `It's funny how it plays on you, the message they were handing out to us. The ones who died were called the \\"lucky ones,\\" the \\"chosen ones.\\"  They were the ones God wanted. `\\"<BR>     Many others were blamed following the fire.  The school's janitor suffered in particular.He was wrongly accused of having set the fire or of not keeping the basement cleaned up. Neither charge was accurate, but he was pilloried by the neighborhood just the same. His life was ruined.  The fire department was unjustly accused of delay.  In reality, the call was placed to them very late because of some misunderstandings, and the fire alarm in the school building was not connected to ring in the fire department or at the call box.  Once they received the alarm, the first engine company was on the scene in less than three minutes, and a 5-11 was called in almost immediately, bringing twenty-two engine companies, seven ladder companies and ten squad companies to the scene. They were able to rescue 200 children despite appalling conditions and no breathing apparatus (not used by fire companies until several years later). The church was unjustly accused of maintaining an unsafe environment for the children, yet it met all the fire codes in place at the time of its construction, and the building itself was well-maintained. A lot of what-if's.<BR>      We learn from our mistakes, and schools today are much safer relative to fire. It's unfortunate that so many children had to die for the changes to take effect.	2003-02-19
US	53029856	RSIWMXI27VN6B	0140062971	181900450	The Blood of the Lamb	Books	4	26	32	N	N	Very enjoyable read	Peter DeVries was a very popular writer who contributed many stories to the New Yorker in the fifties and sixties and who wrote several very funny novels. This autobiographical novel describes the growth to maturity of Don Wanderhope, member of a strickly Calvinist Dutch Reform family, whose brother becomes a heretic, whose father becomes addicted to drink and goes insane, and whose wife commits suicide after giving him a child whom he loves deeply. At age eleven, his daughter contracts leukemia, initially does quite well, but then succumbs to a staph infection in the hospital. <BR>    Wanderhope - I suspect the name is no accidental choice - in grief stricken anger rails against God and man.  \\"I made a tentative conclusion.  It seemed from all of this that uppermost among human joys is the negative one of restoration. Not going to the stars, but learning that one may stay where one is. It was shortly after the evening in question that I had a taste of that truth on a scale that enabled me to put my finger on it.\\"  The happiest moment of his life comes when the doctor lets him know that his daughter will be all right - a mistake as it turns out.  \\"The fairy would not become a gnome.  We could break bread in peace again, my child and I. The greatest experience open to man then, is the recovery of the commonplace.\\"<BR>     The book has many humorous moments and profound insights, as Wanderhope struggles with religion as he tries to deal with the death of his only child.<BR>      \\"I believe that man must learn to live without those consolations called religious, which his own intelligence must by now have told him belong to the childhood of the race. Philosophy really can give us nothing permanent to believe in either.  It is too rich in answers; each canceling out the rest.. The quest for meaning is foredoomed. Human life means nothing.  But that is not to say that it is not worth living. What does a Debussy arabesque mean, or a rainbow, or a rose?  A man delights inall of these knowing himself to be no more. A wisp of music and haze of dreams dissolving against the sun.  Man has only his own two feet to stand on his own human trinity to see him through: reason, courage and grace and the first plus the second equals the third.\\"	2003-02-19
US	53029856	R7OPADB3P2Q8O	0553581481	969826215	Eleven Days (Carl Houseman)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Classic police procedural	This is a spell-binding police procedural, Harstad's first novel. According to the cover, it was based on real events, and Harstad spent twenty-six years as a deputy sheriff in Iowa where the story takes place. (Amanda White, who knows the area, tells me the characters and scenes are very realistic.)<BR>     The story takes place during the eleven-day investigation of the particularly gruesome murders of four people at a farm in rural Iowa.  Deputy Sheriff Carl Houseman arrives on the scene after a 911 call to discover several people dead in what appears to be some kind of ritual Satanic cult murder. Carl is a good cop with good instincts, but the department doesn't have the resources to handle the investigation by itself, so the Iowa CID is called in along with an expert from New York.  <BR>    Carl recounts the investigation with its spectacular denouement in such a droll and natural manner, you can't help but warm to him. He works nights and his wife teaches during the day, so the investigation, which begins to consume more and more of his time, causes some fraying at the edges of their relationship. \\"When I got home, Sue was a little angry,\\" Houseman says about his wife. \\"I'd neglected to leave her a note about the meeting. Consequently, supper had turned out to be a problem. She'd taken care of it by making a taco-type soup, so it was still warm when I got there. She'd eaten.\\"<BR>     The key to solving the murder hinges on what the local pastor knows. It was his involvement in a similar crime near Elyria, Ohio that brought the killer to the area.  His identity will be a complete surprise.  This one will be a hard act to follow.  I have ordered more of Harstad's work.	2003-02-19
US	53029856	R3A89O3DT25WNH	0142001430	43461769	Year of Wonders: A Novel of the Plague	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Heartrending tale	This fascinating historical novel is based on a true story. It takes place in the mid seventeenth century in a small British village that succumbs to the plague. It's told through the eyes of a young widow, Anna Frith, whose two sons die from the plague in as sorrowful a recounting as I would ever wish to read. The author effectively, with rigorous attention to detail, captures what it must have been like. Anna works as a maid for Vicar Michael Mompellion and his gentle, selfless wife, Elinor, who has taught her to read. <BR>      The rector proclaims the plague to be a scourge sent by God, and the village voluntarily agrees to seal itself off from the rest of the world.  The deaths begin to mount, and superstition and mob psychology seek vengeance on those they have decided are witches or guilty of devil worship. There is a horrifying scene, worthy of an Ashcroft creation, when the drunken townfolk decide that a local herbalist is a witch and they put her to trial by ordeal.  They throw her into a deep well, bound hand and foot, only to be terrified that that might have murdered her when they watch her sink (in the classic water trial by ordeal, if the accused sank and drowned, he/she was considered innocent, i.e., accepted by God; if one floated, the accused was adjudged guilty, i.e. rejected by God, and then hanged or burned. It was the classic no-win situation for the accused.) <BR>       Anna suffers from a twentieth-century kind of existential angst, but the reader remains riveted to the story, haunted by the flawed and despairing humans trying to deal with a terrifying  and inexplicable disease.	2003-02-19
US	53029856	R1BUUQYMUBG66J	0385486804	674569455	Into the Wild	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Man 0; Nature 1	Krakauer, who has become quite well-known for his man-against-nature reporting has written a fascinating report of Alex/Chris McCandless's hubristic attempt to out-Thoreau Thoreau.  Apparently a very likeable and intelligent young man, McCandless not only revered Thoreau's back-to-nature writings - and civil disobedience, but more about that later - he also admired and had read Jack London, John Muir and Tolstoy.  Unfortunately for him, he made a series of very simple mistakes, overestimating himself and underestimating nature.  He ignored advice from many more experienced and concerned people who could see that he was going to get himself in over his head. (Even Thoreau could stand Walden Pond for only 18 months and he was within an easy stroll of town.)<BR>      Born Chris McCandless, he changed his name to Alexander Supertramp when he began wandering around the country, usually with no money - especially after he abandoned his car when it was caught in a flash flood and he ran the battery down before the engine had dried out.  Rangers later found the car and used it for many years in drug stings - it ran beautifully. He, in true Thoreauian fashion as interpreted by Chris from Thoreau's book On Civil Disobedience, didn't think it was necessary to get his car registered or to renew his license, so when the car's battery ran down, he couldn't very well ask for official assistance given all the registration issues that would present themselves. It was then that he took completely to foot, and he burned (literally) the $120 he had left. During the trek through the Southwest, he was helped by many people, who picked him up as he hitchhiked.  On his way through South Dakota he was befriended by a rancher who took him in rather than turn him back out to thumb a ride in the rain, and Chris worked for him off and on, periodically leaving to go on another trek.  It was his decision to test himself in Alaska that was to prove his downfall.<BR>      He explained his rootlessness to a friend on one occasion as a disinclination for monotony, but his gift of a $40,000 trust fund bequest to OXFAM, suggested a more substantial rejection of society.  Alaska was much less forgiving than the Southwest, with fewer roads, fewer people to bail him out, and wildlife unlike what he was used to.  All he had to go on was a 10 lb. bag of rice, a .22 caliber rifle (not a large enough bore to hunt for food successfully), insubstantial boots, and thin clothes.<BR>     Ultimately, Chris lacked the skills to survive and at the end realized it.  He left a note desperatly pleading for help on the abandoned bus in which his body was found just two weeks after his death.  McCandless represents irrationality born of a uniquely American nostalgia for wilderness and the ever-receding frontier, combined with our incessant interest in high-risk activities.	2003-02-19
US	53029856	R2G8LXH3WNRFNJ	0375508562	520161075	The Demon in the Freezer: A True Story	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Frightening	I purchased this book for myself in e-book format to see how they work; quite well much to my surprise, at least in the RocketBook format. <br />Preston, author of the virus-based thriller Hot Zone examines the factual biological threat of smallpox, otherwise known as variola.  There are poxviruses that exist in almost all animal species, and one apparently crossed the species barrier several thousand years ago to become the most devastating killer of humans, superseding the plague by far.  It's also one of the first diseases to have been officially completely eliminated from the world, except for two known storage points: one in the United States, the other in Russia.<br />Preston suggests that several rogue nations could be working on it as a biological weapon.  The vaccinations most of us older folks received years ago are no longer immunizing, lasting only about five years.  <br />The genome, i.e. letters of the genetic code, of variola is one of the longest of any virus and it has about two hundred genes. This complexity is used by the virus to defeat the immune system of the human host. The AIDS virus, in contrast, has only ten genes. \\"HIV is a bicycle, while smallpox is a Cadillac loaded with tailfins and every option in the book.\\"<br />Preston is certain that smallpox will again be unleashed upon an unsuspecting world by terrorists.  The virus floats through the air, traveling like lightning from victim to victim, a biological chain reaction.  Studies done in a hospital  in Meschede, Germany where a smallpox victim - he had arrived with the disease from outside the country -  had been taken in 1970 showed that people could be infected even when they were outside the quarantine zone; it traveled much as smoke would throughout a building, even traveling  into windows from the outside. The only way to stop it was massive vaccinations, which prevented the virus from moving outside the area.<br />The current vaccine produces serious adverse effects in a small number of those who receive it.  It also might not be potent against a reengineered smallpox. Researchers have shown how easily the mousepox strain can be changed to become lethal to mice that normally are immune to it, - so easy, that an expert said a bright high school student could do it using publicly available information.  <br />Conventional wisdom was that smallpox could not be transmitted into other non-human  animals.   It would be useful to induce the disease into other primates to be able to test newer forms of a vaccine.  Fortunately, or unfortunately, that barrier was crossed  May 31, 2001 when four monkeys were infected with one billion particles of smallpox virus.  Two died.  For the first time in history, a non-human animal had been infected with smallpox. <br />Smallpox had been declared completely eradicated in 1980, thanks to a heroic effort by the World Health Organization. Quite a controversy has surrounded the maintenance of the smallpox virus that has been kept potent in two storage facility freezers:  one at the CDC in Atlanta, the other at a former germ-warfare facility in Siberia.  The Russians had loaded tons of the virus into warheads during the eighties - thanks, guys - but these were to have been destroyed.  Preston thinks that small amounts have been secreted out of the country into the hands of terrorist groups.<BR> <BR>Preston interviewed Russian and American bioweapon experts who sit around and blithely discuss how easy it would be to create Armageddon, perhaps just by using a garden sprayer to deliver the disease particles.  Air travel and constant movement around the planet would do the rest.  Perhaps Bush should think about shutting down airports.  Time to resurrect train travel, anyway.<br />Preston mixes anecdotes with science and detail to create a frightening view of a possible future, one much more lethal than nuclear war.<br />Just forget about sleeping if you read this book.	2003-02-19
US	53029856	R3FAV7NF6D745L	0879755776	544334442	Atheism, Ayn Rand, and Other Heresies	Books	4	39	43	N	N	Interesting collection of essays	Heresy, Smith defines in his preface, is the rejection of the orthodox, and heresies are considered a threat to the established social order once the dogma of the institution (be it religious or otherwise) has become aligned with the power of the state or political force. The state, holding the reins of power, uses force, instead of persuasion, to enforce the orthodoxy.  The Founding Fathers, most practicing Deists, itself a form of heretical thought, understood this and insisted on the separation of church and state, thus preventing the establishment of an official religion, preventing, they hoped, official heresies as well.  Orthodoxy itself is not dangerous, only its alliance with political power.  The central theme of Smith's book is the \\"crucial difference between the voluntary orthodoxy of organizations and the politicized orthodoxy of governments.     \\"A free society, complete with orthodoxies and prejudices, is the best of all worlds for the heretic.  Liberty permits the heretic to pit his beliefs against those of the orthodox majority.\\"  The paradox for the heretic is whether if and when his view becomes the dominant - to politicize the new orthodoxy or to permit liberty, which enabled the heretic to conquer ideologically, to possibly undermine the new orthodoxy?<br />  Smith is unapologetically atheist; belief in God for Smith is simply unreasonable and irrational. Asked to prove the nonexistence of God, Smith's answer is simply that one cannot prove a negative and that the person who asserts the existence of something bears the burden of proof. He asserts that to believe in faith or to rely on faith is to \\"defy and abandon the judgment of one's mind. Faith conflicts with reason.  It cannot give you knowledge; it can only delude you into believing that you know more than you really do.  Faith is intellectually dishonest, and it should be rejected by every person of integrity.<br />     The book is a loosely connected series of essays that discuss a varietyof Christian and social heresies. He begins with his own philosophic journey to atheism.  He is certainly a libertarian, and the essays on public education and the War on Drugs reflect that philosophy. But the reason I began this book was to discover his writing about Ayn Rand. He devotes two substantial chapters to her and the Objectivist philosophy.<br />  Rand evokes fierce passions, both pro and con.  \\"Accounts of Objectivism written by Rand's admirers are frequently eulogistic and uncritical, whereas accounts written by her antagonists are often hostile and what is worse, embarrassingly inaccurate.\\" The situation has been made worse by her appointed heir to the throne, Leonard Peikoff, who has declared Objectivism to be a \\"closed\\" philosophy, i.e., no critical analysis will be tolerated;  one must accept it as he says it is and that's that. Whether Objectivism will survive such narrow-mindedness remains to be seen.  It's a classic case of the true believer \\"unwilling to criticize the deity.  Thinking for oneself is hard work so true believers recite catechisms and denounce heretics instead.\\"  Typically, this was contrary to Rand's philosophy of individualism and critical, rational thinking where \\"truth or falsehood must be one's sole concern and the sole criterion of  judgment -- not anyone's approval or disapproval.\\"	2003-02-19
US	53029856	R3D49HOP34AZIY	1590130049	104902856	The Devil's Own Luck (The Privateersman Mysteries) (Volume 1)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Good but not O'Brian	Hard to miss with this combination mystery/detective story/nautical yarn.  Harry Ludlow is an ex-Royal Navy officer now operating his own vessel as a privateer.  His ship is destroyed, and he and his crew are taken on board the Magnanime, commanded by one of Harry's old enemies, Oliver Carter. James, Harry's brother, who had also been on Harry's ship, and is hardly a seaman, is discovered standing over the body of a murdered Magnanime officer. Harry must find the real killer in order to clear his brother.<BR> Using his knowledge of the sea and ships, Harry worms his way into the good graces of some of the other officers and sailors.  A raft of dark secrets soon emerges, including a secret space where several of the men and officers, would gather to conduct unmentionable activities.<BR> I would rank Donachie somewhere between O'Brian and Forester.  The addition of the mystery adds a nice twist to what would otherwise be a very credible naval series.	2003-02-19
US	53029856	R10WS7K7DDIJ2T	0786710934	44968230	Anatomy of Greed: The Unshredded Truth from an Enron Insider	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Some of these folks need to serve jail time	Cruver was an inside witness to the greatest act of economic terrorism ever.  Enron had hired nothing but the best and the brightest. They bragged about letting go 15% of the workforce every six months;  those who could not measure up to the intense standards of competitiveness set by their colleagues and supervisors.  Of course, this pressure has been suggested by some to be one of the root causes for the mendaciousness and rapacity that pervaded the Enron culture.  <BR> It also provides another example of the shallowness of image.  There was a huge gulf between Enron's stated corporate values and their actions. \\"Rarely has the difference between sermon and conduct been so dramatic.  The contrast between Enron's moral mantra and the behavior of some Enron executives is bone-chilling. Indeed, the Enron saga teaches us the limitations of corporate codes of ethics:  how empty and ineffectual they can be. . . . Among Enron's stated core values were respect, integrity, communication and excellence.\\"  In reality, the collapse revealed corporate greed and misbehavior at its worst. To make matters worse, accountants whose job it is to provide the certification of rectitude of financial documents provided the tools used by executives to steal.  The famous business schools should look long and hard at the methods by which they delivered morally bankrupt MBAs almost totally lacking in any moral fiber.<BR>       No one should have been surprised. It all started in the mid-eighties.  Several Enron executives played fast and loose with the truth,  and the result was an oil trading scandal.  Ken Lay kept the executives on his staff.  Talk abut a message to the employees.  From then on, the only thing that mattered was getting the huge bonuses that depended on meeting certain targets. It didn't matter that the people hired to build the plants were completely inexperienced, or that Enron executives [ticked] off lcitizens and governments where they were building plants. It was all about making a lot of money for themselves.<BR> Ironically, the nickname for the corporation was the \\"Death Star,\\" and jokes about the \\"crooked\\" E symbol were rampant long before the collapse.  The company created an arrogant culture that refused to hear any bad news and those who dared to suggest that things were not going well were transferred or removed. One executive had filed papers noting substantial cracks in a pipeline in Panama a year before gas leaks caused an explosion that killed more than thirty people. For his trouble, he was transferred to another project.<BR>  Several of the executives went on to other jobs.  For example, Tom White, then Vice-Chairman of Enron Energy Services, is now Secretary of the Army under George W. Bush.  Scary thought.  Enron was consistently ranked as one of the top companies and studied in business schools.  What a shame no one was around to remind us the emperor was naked.<BR> Cruver's narrative is clear and suspenseful even though we know the outcome. He takes complicated financial instruments like derivatives and explains them in such a way that even a dumb lay person (pun intended) can understand them.	2003-02-19
US	53029856	R2DI6ZOIBNLJDN	1567409431	32847958	The Mile High Club (Kinky Friedman Novels)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Stitch	Kinky, or the Kingster, as he likes to call himself, is a Jewish detective who likes cats. Since he only changes the litter box every seven years - whether it needs it or not - the cat often finds other places to take care of things, a situation that Kink's friends find unsettling, to say the least.  He finds that as cat scats age they become dried out and stiff, easily collected by stabbing with a boning knife.<BR>     You're probably beginning to get the idea that this book has some humorous overtones. That's putting it mildly.  I suspect my family might have been wondering about my sanity watching me mow the lawn laughing out loud listening to this hysterical romp.<BR>      The story gets under way when Kinky gets stuck with a little pink  valise left in the airplane seat next to him by a very attractive woman.  She leaves for the lavatory just before landing, and to Kinky's consternation, never is seen leaving the plane.  He collects the little bag and the woman's suitcase assuming that she will call him getting his number from the business card that he had given her during the course of their conversation.<BR>      It turns out that many people are interested in the valise.  Kinky can't bear not to peek inside and he discovers several illegal passports obviously intended for use by persons of less than high moral character, e.g., international terrorists.  Soon the State Department, the Mossad, and Arab terrorists are all trying to find the passports.  The opposition knows the passports must still be in his apartment because, as Kinky and his friends discover, a miniature transmitter was hidden in one of them.  Kinky decides to hide them in the only place he know no one would  think to look:  his cat's litter box. Scatological remarks abound.<BR>     The book is filled with double entendres and puns. He refers to his toilet as the dumper, but using it for its intended purpose is \\"taking a Nixon.\\" And when the terrorists delivery the cutoff finger of someone asa warning all sorts of \\"let the fingers do the walking\\" jokes permeate the chapter.<BR>      It's really a lot of fun, and the audio version is read by one of my favorite readers, Dick Hill.	2003-02-19
US	53029856	R30CQZI7X9CX8N	0142000159	446043681	Brunelleschi's Dome: How a Renaissance Genius Reinvented Architecture	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Marvelously entertaining!	Filippo Brunelleschi is best known for his design of the dome of the cathedral of Santa Maria del Fiore in Florence. Apparently, he was an unkempt and cantankerous old goldsmith and sculptor, very paranoid and suspicious of his fellow artisans - even for fifteenth-century Florence. But it was not just the design for which he deserves accolades. The manner by which he proposed to erect the dome was so radical that he was labeled a madman. Even more startling was that he refused to reveal the details of how he intended to suspend the dome without traditional supports to the committee before he was awarded the commission, because of his fear that his new method would be stolen by other artisans.  It remains the largest dome ever constructed using traditional materials.<br />  <BR>    Until 1436 when the dome was completed, the traditional method of building domes had been to support them with rigid wooden scaffolds (called centering) that had to remain in place as long as a year, until the mortar dried and it would be self-supporting. It was a remarkable feat of engineering, having the largest span ever constructed of bricks and mortar, spanning more than 140 feet, exceeding St. Pauls in London and St. Peters in Rome.<br />     The judges of the competition were naturally reluctant to take Brunelleschi at his word without a demonstration of how he could build the structure without centering, and there is an apocryphal story that he told them they should award the project to whomever could get an egg to stand on its end.  No one could do it, of course, until Brunelleschi came forward, smashed one end of the egg and showed how it could be done.  Crying foul, his detractors argued it wasnt fair, to which Brunelleschi replied that had they been inventive enough to figure out as he had how to get the egg to stand on its end, they would have been able to understand how he could build the dome without centering. The fact is that the structural strength of the egg hadfascinated people for centuries.  It has enormous longitudinal strength.  It is almost impossible to break an egg by squeezing end-to-end.  Of course, now all of you will run to the kitchen to verify this, leaving a wake of eggs smashed all over.<br />     Construction of the cathedral began in 1296, but the competition for the dome was won by Brunelleschi in 1420 after a bitter competition with Lorenzo Ghiberti, Brunelleschis rival.  Political intrigue, jealousy, and paranoia characterized the story. To build the dome, all sorts of mechanical devices had to be invented and Brunelleschi designed most of them.  More than seventy million pounds of bricks (each individually designed for the herringbone pattern that was the secret to the structural integrity of the dome), sand, marble and other material had to be hoisted an immense distance off the ground.  In fact, when the dome was close to completion, the workers had daily to climb the equivalent of a forty-story stairway before they could begin work.  The dome was completed just before the designers death.  It was an engineering feat whose structural daring was without parallel. <br />     His architectural wonder has survived numerous lightning strikes and all sorts of stresses except one he could never have imagined.  Recently, cracks were discovered in the dome that had been caused by the heavy vehicular traffic around the cathedral, so all traffic has been banned in that area. Another remarkable geologic problem was discovered only recently.  Apparently, part of the cathedral was constructed over an underground river.  Yet, it still stands.<br />       King, author of the novel Ex Libris,  tells a compelling and informed story rich in period detail.	2003-01-31
US	53029856	R380TNC2R0ITWC	0375758283	980392655	The Chip : How Two Americans Invented the Microchip and Launched a Revolution	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Couldn't put it down - Real American Heroes.	Technophobes might as well move on to the next review.  I loved this book.  It explained in clear, precise language how innumerable barriers were overcome by innovative and insightfully brilliant individuals to create a device that revolutionized our lives.  I've always been fascinated by electronics, built my own radios and earned an amateur radio license in 7th grade, just because the subject and theory of how electrons move around to perform useful functions is intriguing.  Reid has captured much of that fascination and translated it into a great story.<br />      Before integrated circuits could be produced, the transistor had to be invented.  Before that time, switching mechanism, required a vacuum tube to control, amplify and switch the flow of electrons through a circuit.  It was the discovery that some semiconductor materials could be doped to have an excess of positive charges or negative charges that provided the breakthrough.  A strip of  germanium could be doped at each end with differing charges leaving a junction in the middle. The junction worked like a turnstile that could control the flow of current when connected to a battery.  Variations in current across these junctions connected in the transistor formation could rectify (prevent current from flowing in both directions) and amplify.  That's all that's needed to make a radio (I'm oversimplifying obviously) and hundreds of other devices. Transistors required vastly less current than vacuum tubes, were almost infinitely stable, were cheap and gave off little heat.<br />     But, transistors required thousands of connections to the wires coming in order to make a useful circuit, and as demands for more complex circuitry arose the wiring became infinitely complex. This interconnection problem became a huge barrier that could have prevented the effective utilization of the advantages of the transistor<br />\\"You read everything. . . You accumulate all this trivia, and you hope that someday maybe a millionth of it will be useful,\\" remembers Jack Kilby, one of the inventors of the integrated circuit.  He also insists that he is not a scientist but an engineer. \\"A scientist is motivated by knowledge; he basically wants to explain something.  An engineer's drive is to solve problems, to make something work. . . . Reid has elegantly interwoven the biographies of Jack Kilby and Robert Noyce.   One of the delights of the book was learning how the two inventors thought, how they proceeded, and why they went in the directions they did.<br />     Robert Noyce, founder of Intel, had developed a process to make transistors in arrays on a silicon wafer.  They cut apart the transistors and then hired \\"thousands of women with tweezers to pick them up and try to wire them together.  It just seemed so stupid.\\"  He, too, realized the tyranny of interconnection numbers.  What they both came up with was the \\"Monolithic Idea.\\" The notion that an entire circuit could be designed and produced on those silicon chips.<br />     Obviously,  there is little suspense in the story, but Reid captures and holds our attention. Both men accomplished the same feat at about the same time, approaching it from different directions.  Kilby showed how the transistors could be placed on a single wafer and Noyce showed how the chips and circuits could be manufactured.  Every  transistor radio used the patent Kilby was awarded for his work. In so doing, he turned the future that Orwell had predicted in 1984 on its head.  Instead of a monolithic centralization of power in the hands of a few computer elite who controlled all the computing power, \\"the mass distribution of microelectronics had spawned a massive decentralization of computing power.  In the real 1984, millions of ordinary people could match the governmental or corporate computer bit for bit.  In the real 1984, the stereotypical computer user had become a Little Brother seated at the keyboard to write his seventh-grade science report.\\"<br />The social impact was enormous. Slide rules that had been ubiquitous were completely eliminated in just a few years by the handheld calculator that has become so cheap it is often given away in promotions.  The Japanese gained virtual control over the memory chip industry because of the way they handled their work force.  Americans had a monopoly until the 1973 recession.  American companies typically lay off workers to save money during downturns.  The Japanese try to keep their work force employed.  This meant that when the demand for chips exploded, Americans did not have the capacity to produce enough to meet the demand. The Japanese, having trained workers available, met that demand and were able to produce enough at such a volume to keep the price so low as to inhibit any competition. That and their emphasis on high quality gained them 42% of the world market by 1980.  The \\"Anderson Bombshell\\" report of 1980 (Anderson was a manager at Hewlett-Packard) that showed that Japanese chips were far more reliable than those made in the United States helped seal their market share.<br />    It took winning  the Nobel Prize for Noyce and Kilby to be recognized in the United States (Japan, a nation that honors its engineers, had awarded Noyce and Kilby numerous accolades over the years.) The final irony remains that in \\"our media-soaked society, with its insatiable appetite for important, or at least interesting, personalities, has somehow managed to overlook a pair of genuine national heroes- two Americans who had a good idea that has improved the daily lot of the world.\\"	2003-01-31
US	53029856	R1FHA9LPH7BW9A	0465054684	967940175	For God, Country, and Coca-Cola	Books	5	11	17	N	N	Fascinating	In the late nineteenth century, cocaine was considered a wonder <BR>drug. Heralded by medical journals, pharmacists, Freud and even several Popes  - Pope Leo III was a regular imbiber of Vin Mariani, a wine created in 1863 that contained 2.16 grains of cocaine, in the recommended dose of six glasses per day. No doubt he felt very holy indeed, and his long life and \\"all-radiant\\" eyes were probably less due to his piety than his daily dose of this \\"healthful\\" and \\"life-sustaining\\" drug that had been so valued by the Incas.<br /> Dr. John Pemberton, an Atlanta druggist and doctor - he held two degrees and had created a master reference work containing over 12,000 tests - was anxious to create a drink that would be healthful and profitable. He was not immune to the vast literature hailing cocaine as a wonder drug. \\"The use of the coca plant not only preserves the health of all who use it, but prolongs life to a very great old age and enables the coca eaters to perform prodigies of mental and physical labor,\\" he wrote in 1885. It was a time when patent medicines and elixirs were all the rage.  Soda fountains would often offer as many as 300 different combinations of drinks.  Advertisers tried to influence consumers to purchase one in favor of others, and huge signs were erected along railroads and roads to get the traveler's attention. It was not unusual for a patent medicine \\"advertiser of the era to clear-cut an entire mountainside to that he could erect a mammoth sign for Helmholdt's Buchu.\\"  A contemporary traveler described, \\"enormous signs are erected in the fields, not a rock is left without disfigurement, and gigantic words glare at as great a distance as the eye is able to read them.\\"<br /> Pemberton's first product was French Wine Coca.  It was loaded with cocaine, an extract of the kola nut (very high in caffeine) and damiana, the leaf of a plant with supposed aphrodisiacal powers.  The concoction was advertised as a cure for virtually everything from nerve trouble and dyspepsia to impotence and morphine addiction.<br />      Opiate addiction was a huge problem after the Civil War.  Known as the \\"Army Disease\\" because so many veterans were addicted. Pemberton himself was an addict trying to break the habit.  He was convinced that cocaine was the best treatment for morphine addiction.<br />     In the meantime, by 1886, temperance was becoming a movement in the Atlanta area, so Pemberton began experimenting with a new beverage that excluded the wine.  By adding citric acid, he eliminated some of the sugary sweet taste and eliminated the damiana but kept the coca and kola, hence the alliterative choice that his colleague Robinson came up with: Coca-Cola.  They advertised it both for its medicinal benefits and as a new soda fountain drink.  One ad read, \\"The new and popular soda fountain drink containing the properties of the wonderful coca plant and the famous cola nut.\\"  As it gained in popularity, the business convolutions kept pace, with Pemberton selling his rights to the business several times over.  It was soon a mess.<br />  Asa Candler finally wound up with ownership of the trademark.  He remained committed to quality and insisted that his distributors (a rather unique arrangement for the time) not tinker with the syrup recipe, although some of them did, one adding saccharine in an attempt to preserve the drink -- it was also an ironic attempt to make the drink as sweet as possible. Candler never thought bottling the drink would amount to much, so he virtually gave away the bottling rights, a prognosticatory failure that was to cost the company millions in later years to purchase them back.  He and Frank Robinson (the real marketing genius, who invented the script logo for the drink) soon were collecting huge amounts of money as Coke took off.  <br /> By 1900, Coca-Cola had become so popular it became a target for those who were terribly afraid someone might be out there enjoying themselves, i.e., the self-righteous, and soon pulpits all over attacked the nefarious qualities of the drink that was addicting children, of all people.  It had also become a popular drink among the black population, and soon the KKK was suggesting that the black population was drinking Coca-Cola, becoming \\"drug fiends\\" and roaming the countryside in search of white women to ravish.  Some white farm owners had indeed paid their sharecroppers, mostly black, with cocaine, since it was cheaper than alcohol, and cocaine addiction had become a serious problem.  Ironically, Candler had already removed the minute traces of cocaine that had been in the formula. (The purity of the formula was somewhat of a joke, as several of the bottlers had added saccharin to make it sweeter, but also as a preservative.) The company by 1902 was promoting Coca-Cola as a healthful drink and the official Coke line is that the drink never contained cocaine, a typical PR prevarication, and not a particularly astute one since earlier company brochures had bragged about the healthful benefits of cocaine.  In any case, the do-gooders, who wanted Coke declared an adulterated product because it contained caffeine managed to enlist the mighty forces of the FDA.  Many expensive years later the suit finally died although Coke did reduce the amount of caffeine in the formula. They spent massive amounts of money on advertising, plastering the Coke logos on the sides of barns and giving out millions of items with the Coke logo.  It was widely successful and soon Coke was the most popular drink around.<br />     Pendergrast's section on the infamous New Coke marketing disaster - or was it really an enormous accidental success - is fascinating. The outrage was enormous, but the publicity that resulted showed tremendous loyalty to a drink. Odd hype occurred almost everywhere.  A study at Harvard Medical School compared the douche properties of the old Coke to those of the new, and found that the old Coke killed five times as many sperm as the new Coke.   That's weird.  The company completely failed to recognize that Coca-Cola had become an American institution, an icon. \\"They talk as if Coca-Cola had just killed God,\\" moaned one executive.  Coca-Cola had come to symbolize America; it was  \\"associated with almost every aspect of their lives - first dates, moments of victory and defeat, joyous group celebrations, pensive solitude.\\"	2003-01-31
US	53029856	R31QIZ17K0VUCE	0446611778	472682750	Last Man Standing	Books	3	3	4	N	N	I certainly hope HRT is not like this	This book is like a mountain range with lots of tall peaks and low valleys. Some of the scenes grip you; others create enormous yawns.  I think it badly needed the services of a good editor. Baldacci did a lot of research into all sorts of things and feels compelled to prove it by providing minute details of cars, weaponry, running a horse ranch, etc. etc. The main character, Webb London, has so many psychological problems, I'm surprised the FBI would let him near a water pistol let alone carry around a trunk full of high tech weapons. The psychiatrists are useless, indeed unethical. The FBI suits and administrators look incompetent and once again it seems only a renegade cowboy who consistently disobeys orders and provokes fights with his superiors, can save the day. The scene when HRT assaults the Frees compound was enough to make any survivalist and government hater run out and buy more machine guns. How London could justify leaving the people he had been assigned to protect on the ranch just so he could participate in the raid and get revenge, despite orders not to was beyond me. If someone did that in the military they would have been court-martialed. That being said, the book had its moments. I listened to the audio version, well read. It lasts about 20 + hours.	2003-01-26
US	53029856	R1GBMTGMGM82HJ	0393323528	601624284	Next: The Future Just Happened	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Outsiders rule!	This is an excellent book that rationally examines the Internet and the social change it has invoked. Rather than just bemoan and whine about the impact, Lewis has bothered to investigate the reasons for the myriad changes.  His book should be required reading for sociology and business classes.  He has a sarcastic wit yet keen insight into the radical shifts that have taken place, and he speculates on what the future might bring. <br />     Central to Lewis's observations is the idea that the Internet has altered the relationship between the \\"insiders\\" and the \\"outsiders\\": between those who formerly controlled information and its flow to their benefit i.e., those who try to define what that information is, and those who have always been denied access to that power and information because of youth, lack of formal education, or lack of capital. <br />     In Next, Lewis shows how the Internet is the ideal model for sociologists who believe that our \\"selves are merely the masks we wear in response to the social situations in which we find ourselves.\\" On the Internet, a boy barely in his teens flouts the investment system, making big enough bucks to get the SEC breathing down his neck for stock market fraud. What really makes them mad is that he has beaten them at their own game. When being accused of \\"manipulating\\" stock prices, he throws their logic back at them, asserting that that's the whole point of the stock market, that without manipulation, there would be no stock market.  He watched stocks being hyped by professionals at the behest of companies and to the benefit of their own portfolios, in a world where companies cared more about their stock's value than the products they produced.  A Blomberg study revealed that amateur predictions were twice as likely to be correct than those of stock analyst professionals.   <br />     Markus, a bored adolescent, too young to drive, became one of the most respected legal advisors on Askme.com.  His legal expertise came from watching myriads of legal television shows and from searching out the answers on the Internet. Ironically, his information appears to have been correct, and even the head of the American Bar Association admitted that most legal counsel is simply a matter of dispensing appropriate information.  The story of how Askme.com got started is in itself instructive.  It was designed by a software company to permit  corporations to create an intranet that provided the capability for anyone to ask a question and anyone else in the corporation to provide an answer.  Thus the information flow would change from the traditional top down pyramid model to a more pancake-shaped environment where information moved horizontally.  It could be a bit unsettling for some people to see a vice-president get assistance from an assembly line worker, but the results were much more profitable companies, so the software became quite popular.  The only concern prospective customers had was whether a product could withstand heavy usage, so the designers created Askme.com, a public site where people could ask questions of others.  It became so popular that it was getting 10 million hits per day, and experts were vying for top rankings from those they assisted.  Markus was so accommodating and his information so reliable that he was once asked by a \\"client\\" to provide the defense in court.  Fortunately, his mother wouldn't drive him to court, but he supplied legal briefs and other legal documents that were accepted. The pyramid flattening to a pancake has become a metaphor for all that is happening around us.<br />     Gnutella, the famous peer-to-peer software, is also examined as an example of the new relationships that have arisen from the ubiquitous nature of the Internet. It, too, demonstrates how the social order has been reversed and prestige redistributed.  The corrosive effect of money, the lessening of gambling as sinful, and the devaluation of formal training in the exchange of knowledge (\\"casual thought went well with casual dress,\\") are additional side effects.   <br />      Lewis writes so smoothly.  His observations are often funny as he describes people's behavior and familial interactions.  The Internet has provided a window through which even youngsters, like the teenage investor, can \\"glimpse the essential truth of the market -- that even people who call themselves professionals were often incapable of independent thought and that most people , though obsessed with money, had little ability to make decisions about it.\\" It's also clear from his examples, most illuminatingly the interviews with the SEC and the parents, that most adults  have no idea what's happening around them, and that these youngsters are becoming proficient at the same tools available to the \\"experts.\\"   Lewis's observations, in my experience, are valid, but whether they are entirely due to the Internet is problematic.  Certainly, anyone can set him/herself up as a consultant merely by making speculative announcements publicly and then charging huge fees regardless of whether the information is appropriate, valid, or even false.  We are surrounded by silly, self-esteem-building, \\"creativity\\" workshops that are singularly lacking in content and substance. We are told that all we need do is have a little passion for something in order to be successful.  Competence has little to do with anything any more.<br />     I remember a call from a father inebriatingly asking why it was necessary for his son to take certain courses - Shakespeare was one of them - that the father and the boy deemed to be unnecessary since his son was already making so much money in the stock market.  My explanation that one of the roles of a multi-faceted education was to create a compassionate and informed citizenry fell on stony ground.  Clearly, the only value this family had was monetary.<br />     Keep your eye on the outsiders.	2002-10-30
US	53029856	R1OZ56HAWGQRGU	0380727501	157497316	Notes from a Small Island	Books	5	11	14	N	N	No Bryson should be left unread	Before returning to his native United States after a sojourn of some twenty years in England, Bryson decided to take a trip around that \\"small island.\\"  The hysterical comments in this book are the result.   The British loved it so much it was a best-seller for months, and they turned it into a TV series. The book even includes a glossary of English terms. For example, do you know  the difference between a village and a hamlet?  One is a small town where people live, the other a play by Shakespeare!<br />     Bryson is certainly not your average travel writer - as anyone who has read my reviews of his other books knows - and despite his often scathing wit, it's never done with malice, even when very critical of a subject. What astounds me is Bryson's vigor and willingness to put up with all sorts of cold and wet weather.  He made his trek during the off-season, i.e., late October, not an especially delightful time of year in Britain.  He did not take a car, relying solely on buses and British Rail, a decision that often forced him to make long, out-of-the-way walks of as far as twenty miles, either because schedules didn't <BR>coincide, or the irregular bus did not run during the off-season.<br />     He delightfully intermingles political commentary with travelogue. He visits Blackpool, for example, where there are long beaches - that officially don't  exist. \\"I am not making this up.  In the late 1980s, when the European Community issued a directive about the standards of ocean-borne sewage, it turned out that nearly every British seaside town failed to come anywhere near even the minimum compliance levels.  Most of the bigger resorts like Blackpool went right off the edge of the turdometer, or whatever they measure these things with.  This presented an obvious problem to Mrs. Thatcher's government, which was loath to spend money on British beaches when there were perfectly good beaches in Mustique and Barbados, so it drew up an official decree -- this is so bizarre I can hardly stand it, but I swear it is true -- that Brighton, Blackpool, Scarborough, and many other leading resorts did not have, strictly speaking, beaches.  Christ knows what it then termed these expanses of sand -- intermediate sewage buffers, I suppose -- but in any case it disposed of the problem without either solving it or costing the treasury a penny, which is of course the main thing, or in the case of the present government, the only thing.\\"<br />     Then there's British Rail.  On his way to Manchester, \\"we crept a mile or so out of the station, then sat for a long time for no evident reason.  Eventually, a voice announced that because of faults further up the line this train would terminate in Stockport, which elicited a general groan.  Finally, after about twenty minutes, the train falteringly started forward and limped across the green countryside.  At each station the voice apologized for the delay and announced anew that the train would terminate in Stockport.  When at last we reached Stockport, ninety minutes late, I expected everyone to get off, but no one moved, so neither did I.  Only one passenger, a Japanese fellow, dutifully disembarked, then watched in dismay as the train proceeded on, without explanation and without him, to Manchester.\\"	2002-10-30
US	53029856	R2LNLZ8YXUPF6M	0767903854	430278994	In a Sunburned Country	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Ignore Bryson at your peril	If you have not yet tried Bryson,  you probably should seek psychiatric help.  He's funny and informative; travel-writing (if you can call it that) at its best.   His Walk in the Woods is a classic, and while this book about his visit to Australia is not as uproariously funny - the country is, after all, home to the ten most poisonous animals in the world - his descriptions of Australian institutions will delight you. His description of cricket, a game that has nothing wrong with it that \\"the introduction of golf carts wouldn't fix in a hurry,\\" is a good example. \\"It is not true that the English invented cricket as a way of making all other human endeavors look interesting and lively;  that was merely an unintended side effect.\\" It is a very popular sport (?) that's \\"enjoyed by millions, some of them awake and facing the right way, but it is an odd game.  It is the only sport that incorporates meal breaks.  It is the only sport that shares its name with an insect.  It is the only sport in which the spectators burn as many calories as players - more if they are moderately restless. It is the only competitive activity of any type, other than perhaps baking, in which you can dress in white from head to toe and be as clean at the end of the day as you were at the beginning.\\" The pitcher runs at the batter (decked out with a riding hat and \\"heavy gloves of the sort used to handle radioisotopes, and a mattress strapped to each leg,\\") and throws the ball at his ankles. This can go on indefinitely until he is  \\"coaxed into a mis-stroke that leads to his being put out [at which time] all the fielders throw up their arms in triumph and have a hug.  Then tea is called. . . .\\" This usually goes on until your library books are all overdue and autumn has become winter.  Of course, listening to cricket on the radio is truly something else: \\"That's right, Clive.  I haven't known anyone start his delivery that far back since Stopcock caught his sleeve on the reversing mirror of a number 11 bus during the third test at Brisbane in 1957 and ended up in Goondiwindi four days later owing to some frightful confusion over a changed timetable at Toowoomba Junction.\\"   There are long silences during which the announcers have time to run some errands. \\"So we break for second luncheon, and with 11,200 balls remaining, Australia are 962 for two not half and England are four for a duck and hoping for rain.\\"<br />    Australia remade itself as a country following the Second World War.  It realized that with such a small population, it could not afford to rely forever on Britain for its defense and it began to encourage immigration, \\"that if it didn't use all that empty land and fill those empty spaces someone from the outside might do it for them.\\"  They threw open their doors and the population more than doubled in the years following 1945.  They welcomed people from all over Europe and \\"suddenly Australia was full of people who liked wine and good coffee and olives and eggplants, and realized that spaghetti didn't have to be a vivid orange and come from cans.\\"   By 1970, they also realized they had become an Asian nation and were no longer predominantly European and they simply eliminated the color bar they previously had used to ban \\"undesirables.\\"  \\"In a single generation, Australia remade itself.  It went from being a half-forgotten outpost of Britain, provincial, dull, and culturally dependent, to being a nation infinitely more sophisticated, confident, interesting and outward-looking. And it did all this, by and large, without discord or disturbance, or serious mistakes - indeed often with a kind of grace.\\"<br />     Of course, if you are an Aborigine, the outlook is somewhat different and Bryson, to his credit, does not overlook the truly horrible discrimination and crimes committed against this venerable and ancient people - their history is truly astonishing.  Whites in Australia had a tendency to treat them the way whites in this country treatedthe buffalo.<br />     The vastness of Australia cannot be underestimated, and it's a naturalist's paradise with new species being discovered - and probably made extinct - almost daily. The mineral wealth is enormous and barely tapped, not to mention a biodiversity that includes living fossils.  There is a species of living rock that dates back to the early eons of the earth and is worth a visit halfway around the world just to see it - if you can avoid the most venomous animals in the world, the sharks, the crocodiles and all the other poisonous stuff.  A marvelous book.	2002-10-30
US	53029856	R1G9WBCULO6ZRQ	1892065231	251905809	Hello Out There (The Hercules Text / A Talent for War)	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Solid science fiction	This is a nifty book.  It consists of two novels:  Hercules Text and A Talent for War.  In an author's note, McDevitt writes that he has updated The Hercules Text from its original edition.  It's a fine novel that raises all sorts of interesting issues.<br />     Harry Carmichael is a respected administrator at a site called Skynet that examines space for evidence of other life forms.  One day they see evidence that a million light years away, some alien intelligence has manipulated a star's light output in a pattern that can only be described as unnatural.  A month later a stream of text from the Hercules nebula is received.  Decoded, it consists of some mathematical and geometric symbols, a manual and what appear to be pictures of the beings who sent the message. <br />     The president, worried about what else the message might contain, clamps a lid of secrecy on their facilities, irritating the scientists who work there and who feel that releasing the information can only be beneficial to the scientific community; after all, the humans never been enthusiastic about acting in concert as a species.<br />     The religious community is divided on how to take this incontrovertible evidence that humans are not alone.  One priest remarks, \\"How can we take seriously the agony of a God who repeats His passion?  Who dies again and again in endless variations, on countless worlds, across a universe that may itself be infinite?\\",  assuming that God had revealed Herself to the other worlds.  And if not, why not? What did this do to human's perception of themselves as the primary focus of God?  \\"If there were any truth at all to the old conviction that the universe had been designed for man, why was so much of its expanse beyond any hope of human perception? Forever.?\\"<br />       As they learn more about the alien intelligence and begin to obtain information of value to the military, the scientific community begins to lose control of the information, and some of them wantto have it destroyed.  But they also learn something extraordinary about the intelligence that sent it to them millions of years before.	2002-10-30
US	53029856	R3N31CXTQQ2ZGD	0451206843	957636861	Twin Towers:: The Life of New York City's Trade Center	Books	5	20	22	N	N	History of the Twin Towers	This book was written in 1999 as pressure was mounting for the  Port Authority to turn the WTC over to a private agency. The book was reissued shortly after September 11 as the only scholarly history of the WTC. It's a fascinating study of political pressures and engineering feats.<br />      It's  impossible to discuss the World Trade Center Towers without first understanding the New York/New Jersey Port Authority.  Conceptually, it was unique when it was created in 1921. Authorities - quasi-governmental agencies that were authorized to build projects and then levy user fees to pay for them - had a long and well-established history in England.  What made this new authority unique in 1921, when it was created to build the Holland Tunnel, was that it was granted a charter to build facilities, i.e., multiple projects. <br />     The idea for the WTC was conceived during a period of relentless optimism [Kenney] but \\"completed during a period of national gloom and retreat [Vietnam, 1970's, and Nixon's collapse.]\\"   There were political aspects, aside from the desire to build the world's tallest building, and there was always the pressure from New Jersey to reduce bridge and tunnel tolls.  A new project that would use these surplus funds would help to relieve that pressure.  It was a project that was lauded by the critics at first, then reviled, only to be resurrected in the minds of New Yorkers, but never as an architectural triumph.  It had the misfortune to fall between two architectural periods: International Style, with massive amounts of glass, and Postmodern, which represented a return to the more colorful and decorative building facades.  Its Japanese architect, Minoru Yamasaki, used unique aluminum curtain walls that had been dyed to reflect light in unusual ways.  The floor-to-ceiling windows were smaller, about the width of a large man, and set back from the curtain.  This reduced heating and cooling expenses and eliminated the sense of vertigo that plagued other skyscrapers that had office space right up to the edge of the window, a more floor-efficient design. Yamasaki went through eighty iterations of the design, sometimes using three or four towers, but eventually settling on two.  The spacing between them became critical because if placed too close together the winds sweeping down could create sympathetic vibrations in the buildings, destroying their integrity, i.e., a euphemism for causing them to fall down.<br />        The engineering was incredible, and the building could not have been built without technologies developed in other countries. The \\"Kangaroo\\" cranes that hoisted themselves up the elevator shafts were developed in Australia.  Nothing like them was available in the United States. They were needed to raise the very heavy steel columns that were the load- bearing walls, another unique design feature of the buildings, and the floors.  It was initially thought that only U.S. Steel or Bethlehem Steel, the two largest steel companies in the United States, would be able to supply the enormous quantity of steel needed - the drawings  for the steel construction weighed over 650 pounds - and Andrew Tobin, the Port Authority's director, thought that by involving them early in the design stage he would get a reasonable bid from them.  Not so, and Tobin was so angry with their overbidding, which bore suspicions of collusion  - a later investigation revealed no evidence of that - that he contracted portions of the steel to smaller companies, thereby saving  over 30% of the anticipated costs.  Going to different companies and subcontracting and bidding for smaller lots was to become the industry standard because of the cost savings.<br />     Because the building was so close to the river and excavation for the huge buildings had to go deep down to hit bedrock (enough soil and material was excavated to create Battery Park, an eighteen-acre site that extended Manhattan Island an extra 700 feet into the river  and creating additional real estate worth [$]), some method to keep the water out was needed that would not affect the adjacent structures.  A slurry method imported from Italy permitted concrete and steel reinforcement for the huge \\"bathtub\\" that kept the water out.  Slurry containing betonite clay was pumped in as the trenches were dug and then pumped out as concrete and rebar were placed to create the final walls.  <br />      The effect of sway on humans had to be tested. The buildings had to be flexible; any degree of stiffness could be built in, but it could not be changed after the building was complete.  At its top the Empire State Building sways three inches in a one hundred-mile-per-hour wind.  Swaying rooms were built to test people's reactions. Psychologists found that people would tolerate up to eleven inches of slow sway.  That represented winds of 140 miles per hour, wind speeds that had never occurred in New York. The building was designed to withstand much higher gusts than that.<br />      Wind can cause other problems.  On a gusty day, the buildings twisted and moved so much that the freight elevators could not be used.  They were the only elevators to go all the way to the top - all the others had shorter runs to assorted lobbies where commuters changed cars - and the 1350-foot cables would slap around too much.  Everything had to be inspected daily.  The elevators made 450,000 \\"movements\\" (one person on one trip) per day.<br />     The Port Authority has its own police force, and forty-two officers were assigned to the WTC buildings. It is a unique force in that the officers have bi-state authority, the only police force in the country to have such authority.  In fact, their jurisdiction lies in a circle with a twenty-five mile radius from the Statue of Liberty. <br />     It's impossible to recount all the riveting (not a pun, since no rivets were used) details of the gargantuan buildings. It's a fascinating story of a building, and, aside from the enormous human tragedies of September 11, it was a great engineering loss as well.	2002-10-30
US	53029856	R3T56XLMERNUSL	0805070869	535954953	To Hell and Back	Books	5	160	165	N	N	Honest and humble memoir	It was interesting to read this account of Audie Murphy's travails in World War II (Murphy was one of the most highly decorated soldiers of that war) having read Ambrose's eulogy Band of Brothers .<BR>     Murphy  received (every major medal, some more than once, that the army has to offer). He joined the army at age 17 to support six siblings after his mother died (his father had left the family earlier), and he doesn't talk about how the war haunted the rest of his life. <BR>       He portrays a brutal, harsh struggle to survive, where the only thing that matters is keeping oneself and one's friends alive. There are moments of great poignancy, others of humor.  Once, hungry, dirty and wet, mired in their foxholes, they notice they are under a tree with ripe cherries.  Not daring to stick a head up, let alone climb out of the foxhole, Murphy's buddy gets the idea of shooting down the branches with his machine gun, and soon they are delighted to have cherry branches falling on them, making the day just a little brighter.<BR>     Not once does Murphy mention his numerous awards, Clearly, Murphy believed that luck played as much a part in his survival as anything he did. He was however, the kind of person who tried to control his destiny, doing what was necessary and taking the initiative in order to get through the day.   A little piece of Murphy died every time a friend was killed, and soon almost all of his friends were gone. He was delighted if they received a wound that would return them to the rear, away from battle. He sympathized and worried for the lieutenant who had been badly injured and returned voluntarily to the front only to lose his nerve under the intense shelling.  It must have been horribly traumatic to develop such close bonds and to have them ripped apart. <BR>     At the risk of sounding a little chauvinistic, I quote from the last lines of his book:<BR>    \\" When I was a child, I was told that men were branded by war. Has the brand been put on me? Have the years of blood and ruin stripped me of all decency? Of all belief?  Not of all belief. I believe in the force of a hand grenade, the power of artillery, the accuracy of a Garand. I believe in hitting before you get hit, and that dead men do not look noble. <BR>    \\"But I also believe in men like Brandon and Novak and Swope and Kerrigan; and all the men who stood up against the enemy, taking their beatings without whimper and their triumphs without boasting. The men who went and would go again to hell and back to preserve what our country thinks right and decent. <BR>    \\"My country. America! That is it. We have been so intent on death that we have forgotten life. And now suddenly life faces us. I swear to myself that I will measure up to it. I may be branded by war, but I will not be defeated by it. <BR>    \\"Gradually it becomes clear. I will go back. I will find the kind of girl of whom I once dreamed. I will learn to look at life through uncynical eyes, to have faith, to know love. I will learn to work in peace as in war. And finally - finally, like countless others, I will learn to live again.\\"	2002-10-30
US	53029856	R16DS0Y4RV0FQK	0385495838	487267340	L.A. Requiem	Books	5	0	0	N	N	If this is typical, I'll have to read more Crais	This is without question one of the best detective stories I have read in a long time.  Actually, \\"listened to\\" might be better more accurate, and I admit that on numerous occasions I pulled into the parking lot only to sit for several minutes to hear the end of a chapter or section, not to mention walking around the house - \\"there goes Dad again in his own little world\\" - to hear more.<br />    This is my first Crais and the seventh in the series starring Elvis Cole and his mysterious and mercenary partner, Joe Pike.  Pike's former girlfriend, Karen Garcia, has been shot dead while jogging - I have always maintained that jogging is hazardous, here's another reinforcement. Pike is an enigma;  he speaks as little as possible, yet reeks of dangerous potential.  The point-of-view shifts from the mysterious serial killer - Karen's death is merely the random fifth in a series of killings all using a bleach bottle as the silencer for the gun - to Pike's background (he had a miserable childhood, became a sensational independent soldier in Vietnam, and shot his partner while a policemen - all tidbits told in such a tantalizing way as to raise one's suspicion that he may be the killer).<br />    When a second killing occurs, much of the evidence points to Joe and he is arrested. Samantha Dolan, the Robbery-Homicide cop working on the case, falls for Elvis; that ticks off Lucy Chenier, Elvis's girlfriend and attorney, who is already very angry because Elvis's loyalties seem to be with Joe at crucial moments,rather than with her. The tension rachets up several notches, leavened by Elvis's unvoiced, hilariously sarcastic wisecracks.<br />     Excellent, hard to put down novel.	2002-10-30
US	53029856	R1FYY9E11TEVF	0066620813	906417094	Inviting Disaster: Lessons from the Edge of Technology	Books	4	5	5	N	N	How little things can cause great disasters	Accidents and disasters are often caused by simple, random events or the change in a normal sequence of actions, any one of which could affect the outcome. Had the path of the Air France Concorde been slightly different, or the piece of titanium not fallen off a DC-10, or the plane left a tad earlier or later, or a sealant been used in the fuel tanks, or any one of any other seemingly unimportant events taken place, the plane's tire would not have struck the titanium and a piece of tire would not have opened a substantial leak in the plane's fuel tank, and the passengers and crew would still be alive today.<BR>     Another related book worth reading is  Normal Accidents  by Charles Perrow.  Perrow had studied several major accidents and concluded that some forms of technology are more open to chains of failure and that adding more safety systems can actually lead to an increased likelihood of an accident because of the increase in complexity.  The systems become so \\"tightly coupled\\" that a failure in any part of the system almost inevitably leads to a chain of unmanageable and uncontrollable events.<BR>      Chiles goes Perrow one further and makes recommendations as to how training and people can prevent the accidents by breaking one of the links in the chain. It requires that individuals throughout the organization be empowered to call decisions into question or to halt actions they believe to be of concern. He observed several industries as air traffic control centers, and aircraft carriers, (not to mention helicopter repair of high-tension lines!) which have impressive safety records despite a high level of coupling and danger.<BR>     It's a fascinating book that examines why disasters happened and what lessons can be gleaned from those tragedies.  For example, the explosion of the steamboat Sultana killed hundreds at a time (1865) when Americans were seemingly inured to disasters of all kinds (\\"between 1816 and 1848, 233 explosions on American steamboats had killed more than two thousand people\\"). Steamboats were constantly being destroyed by boiler explosions, and, despite industry objections, the federal government had issued all sorts of controls and inspections.  In the case of the Sultana, the captain was in a hurry, he wanted to pack as many prisoners (released from Andersonville prison) on board as possible (being paid [$] per soldier and [$] per officer). The ship was way overloaded, which contributed to the boiler explosion because when the ship turned, its topheaviness caused the water level in the boiler to shift beyond safe levels.  In addition, rather than have a crack in one boiler properly fixed, the captain had insisted on a patch that normally would have been fine, except that it was slightly thinner than the boilerplate on the rest of the boiler.  That would have been OK, except that no one thought to change the setting on the emergency blowout valve to reflect the thinner metal of the repair, so a sequence of decisions that individually would have been unimportant resulted in a sequence that killed far more, on a percentage basis, than the 9/11 attacks.<BR>      It is possible to conduct accident-free operations, but Chiles says that it means changing normal operational culture and mindset.  For example, challenging authority becomes crucial in preventing aircraft crashes and other jobs where people have to work as a team. The airlines have recognized this and no longer is there a pilot in command; the term now is pilot flying the plane with each pilot required to question the judgment of the other pilot if he/she thinks  the pilot flying has made an unsafe move or decision. <BR>       I learned about the extraordinary safety record of companies that use helicopters to make repairs on high-tension electrical lines while the current is still on.  That would certainly loosen my sphincter.  The pilot hovers the craft within feet of the conductive lines while the electrician leans out on a platform, hooksa device to the line that makes  the craft and everyone on it conduct up to 200,000 volts (they have to even  wear conductive clothing), and makes repairs to the line.   They have never had an accident in twenty-five years of doing this. Safety is paramount, they anticipate the unexpected, and everyone is an equal partner in the team and expected to point out conditions that might be unsafe. \\"A good system, and operators with good `crew resource management' skills, can tolerate mistakes and malfunctions amazingly well.  Some call it luck, but it's really a matter a resilience and redundancy.\\"  Failing to have this resiliency can have tragic consequences.  On December 29, 1972 an L-1011 crashed on approach to Miami because a light bulb indicating whether the landing gear was down had burned out and the entire four-man crew became involved in changing the bulb.  They did not notice that someone had bumped the throttle lever releasing the autopilot that was supposed to keep them at two thousand feet, and the air traffic controller who noticed the deviation in altitude did not yell at them to pull up, not wanting to annoy the crew, but simply asked if everything was coming along. The plane crashed killing everyone on board.<BR>     Another key element is that people must be clear in speaking and writing, \\"even if doing so necessitates asking people to repeat what you told them. . . We know that people will try to avoid making trouble, particularly any trouble visible to outsiders, even though they are convinced that catastrophe is near.\\"  Chiles sites numerous instances where committed individuals went outside normal channels to get additional perspectives or assistance and prevented catastrophe. Those individuals always knew the leadership would back up their independent decisions even if they were wrong.<BR>     I have just scratched the surface. This book should be recommended reading for everyone.	2002-10-30
US	53029856	R21VRBS59WJACX	1588340058	16362230	The Mystery of Flight 427: Inside a Crash Investigation	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Very interesting study about crash investigations	It's ironic, but crashes are making flying safer, and this book again demonstrates Henry Petroski's (my favorite civil engineer) aphorism that we learn more from failure than we do from success. Adair has painstakingly reconstructed the investigation into the crash of a Boeing 737, one of the world's safest airplanes. It was Boeing engineers who discovered the peculiar flaw in the special and unique design of the power control unit (PCU) that caused the rudder to go into hardover - a full application of the rudder, the large moveable section in the plane's tail that in a 737 is used mostly during crosswind landings. The problem was rudder movement in the wrong direction, opposite to what was indicated by the rudder pedals. In the end, this investigation also resulted in computer data that lead to a determination that something similar happened in the crash of a United 737 over Colorado Springs.<BR>      Crash investigations throw together a multitude of people, each with a particular agenda or point of view, and places them under extreme pressure. One of the criticisms of the NTSB had been the \\"party\\" system that permitted each agency or group its bias: Boeing (which had a desire to implicate the pilots and clear the airplane), ALPA (the Airline Pilots Association that had a special interest in clearing the pilots), USAir (that would have been happy to blame anyone other than itself), and the FAA (an agency often accused of having a contradictory role: promoting aviation yet making it as safe as possible).<BR>       The NTSB is charged with overseeing investigations and making a final determination as to the cause of transportation accidents. It could be a demanding and uncomfortable job, but most investigators knew that the results of the investigation would make things safer, and they considered it a failure when they could not determine a cause, as in the case of the Colorado Springs 737 crash. <BR>      There was a multitude of clues, but one of the key points that led to an ultimate resolution was a radar track that showed flight 427 crossing the wake of a 727 at the exact moment when things started to go wrong.  The exact sequence was duplicated under similar weather conditions and the slight bounce was easily handled by the pilots, but they suspected some relationship.  The other key finding came several years into the investigation. Several PCU units, including one from an Eastwind Airlines flight that had suffered a rudder hardover, and the one from flight 427, were sent to a lab to be tested. In the Eastwind Airlines flight, the pilot, who had many hours of experience in turboprops, was able to counteract the influence of the rudder forcing the plane in the wrong direction, by applying asymmetric thrust, i.e., speeding up the engine on the opposite side, counteracting the thrust of the rudder.  Using the engines in this manner was common in small turboprops but would rarely be used in a jet.  His quick thinking saved many lives. A misconnected yaw damper was at first suspected, but when the pilot reported the unusual behavior to the NTSB, they decided to take a close look at the PCU. The factory unit tested out fine under all conditions, and so did the Eastwind and 427 units until they simulated moving the plane from a high altitude where it would be -300 and then pump 170 degree hydraulic fluid through it. A Boeing analysis of the data revealed that in rare instances the double valve construction would line up incorrectly, and the rudder would move in the direction opposite to what the pilot intended. Even more remarkable, the malfunction left no marks on the unit at all, so there was no evidence of a malfunction when examined after the fact. <BR>      After many years of painstaking work by the NTSB, the pilots' union and Boeing, they were able to come to a decisive conclusion as to what happened on flight 427 and what most likely happened at Colorado Springs.  Boeing, even though they stood to lose millions, redesigned the valve and paid to have the PCU valves replaced on 737's despite obvious evidence that the plane had the safest record of any aircraft.	2002-10-30
US	53029856	RNONKHLIE8NG5	0801868122	715296609	The Baldwin Locomotive Works, 1831-1915: A Study in American Industrial Practice (Studies in Industry and Society)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Great study of nineteenth century business	In eight weeks, thousands of workers at the Baldwin Works of Philadelphia would take a custom design from drawings to finished product.  By 1905, more than seven engines rolled out of the plant every day.  How this was done is the subject of this very interesting book.  Baldwin was the premier locomotive manufacturer and ranked at the top of American industry for sixty years. Ironically, the major strength of the Baldwin company, the ability to build custom products efficiently to the customer's specific demands, was to prove a major weakness as the economy changed to a more consumer-driven environment where \\"standardized products, hierarchical managerial structures, and market control strategies dominated.\\" Builders could not compete with manufacturers who mass-produced standard designs. <br />     Matthias Baldwin began as a jewel smith in Philadelphia, but he was enamored of technology and soon built a small engine.  More than a toy, it powered his first shop for forty years and now resides in the Smithsonian.  Philadelphia, home of the Franklin Institute, which supported new inventions and technology, was also the home of numerous machine shops, and soon Baldwin had created a shop where he began to design ever better steam engines for railroads. He invented the Jervis leading truck, a pair of wheels that moved along as the track curved, reducing the number of derailments. His flexible-beam design became very popular because it had more driving wheels and with the weight of the engine over the drivers it could pull longer and heavier freight trains.  By 1846, his shop made forty-two types of engines, he had paid off all his debts, and he had survived the panic of 1837, a severe market reversal. He had also bought out his early partners, making him the sole owner of the company.<br />     You really have to be a locomotive or railroad buff to enjoy this book (isn't everybody?), but there is also a great deal about capitalism and market conditions in the nineteenthcentury.  The Baldwin Works managed productivity increases on an average of 3.1% per year, as compared with 1.9% nationally, and it accomplished this through organizational and technical changes.  By 1906, Baldwin was producing a locomotive every three hours, twenty-four hours a day.  Baldwin minimized the risk inherent in the system by engaging in industry-wide price-fixing agreements, and he relied on \\"just-in-time\\" inventory supplies to reduce the need for substantial working capital.  He drew a great deal of technical expertise from his customers, the railroads.  The author suggests that Baldwin's success came also because of his reliance on a core of skilled workers rather than on trying to improve profits by manipulating workers and exploiting them.<br />        That Baldwin rapidly  lost ground to the  diesel-electric engine may suggest that individual leadership tied to an entrenched way of operation might be a disadvantage in the long run.	2002-10-30
US	53029856	R4XO96H2SZZGQ	0440235316	937253106	Air Warriors: The Inside Story of the Making of a Navy Pilot	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Terrific!	Talk about your Walter Mittys. Waller has a heck of a deal going here. He has written books about commandoes, submariners and now navy pilots. As a writer for first Newsweek and now Time, it's no wonder he got to fly with the boys and girls in the back seat of F-18s and dive in nuclear subs.  OK, so maybe I'm just a teensy-weensy bit jealous. Waller, who wrote The Commandos  after observing the training of special forces soldiers, reports on his intimate experience with the training program for navy pilots in this latest book. He was granted permission to participate in the pilots' grueling training regime in order to produce this absorbing behind-the-scenes account of the physical, academic and psychological tests endured by  pilot wannabees.  It's almost as good as being there as Waller takes us through the grueling \\"Helo-Dunk\\" test where students are dumped in a pool in a helicopter body.  Because helicopters are top-heavy, they flip immediately when forced to ditch in the ocean, and the navy discovered that if pilots were prepared for the fear and darkness they had a much better survival rate - of course, almost anything was better than the close to zero survivor rate they had had before. Students wear blindfolds and lose points if they try to shove anyone out of the way in their haste to make the exits.<br />    Grading of all their tests is excruciating.    Everything is graded on a curve that is generated against their fellow students to compute the average.  \\"Students were graded not on how well they did, but rather on how well they did compared to other students.  The numerical scores a student made on each test were totaled up, divided by 1,000, then plotted on a bell curve against the scores of the past 300 students who took the test. Competition between recruits is thus intense and just one bad day can ruin a recruit's chances.  The difference between the trainee who was number one in one of the classes and the trainee who was number fifty in class rankwas a mere two points.\\"<br />     Air combat is vastly different than it was just thirty years ago.  Today everything is done at vast distances, and the rule is that if a pilot hasn't eliminated the enemy plane within sixty seconds, he should run away because his odds of survival fall drastically.  The systems on an F-18 require the sensitivity of a piano player, and landing on an aircraft carrier at night - read the chapter \\"Practice Bleeding\\" for a very realistic account of the fear and skill involved - commands minute movements of the hands and eyes to constantly detect changes in altitude, angle of attack, and speed.   For the first landing on a carrier, there is no instructor in the back seat.  It's \\"too nerve-wracking.  The instructor would be too tempted to grab the controls and pilot the aircraft himself.\\"  It is just too dangerous.  The students have to concentrate so hard on what they are doing that many forget their names and plane numbers.<br />    Despite the dangers, the navy has drastically reduced the number of accidents by emphasizing safety. Hot-rod pilots get thrown out immediately for stupid stunts.  Nevertheless, the most extreme strains can come from stress on family relationships when the pilots are gone at sea for long periods.  Two of the students Waller followed were married to each other.  Both became F-18 pilots, but navy regulations prevented them from being assigned to the same squadron, so they would be lucky to see each other for more than six months every twenty-four.  Waller also discusses the changes in the navy after Tailhook.  The older sailors hate what they consider the PC mentality while the younger ones seem to have adjusted well, but it has made dating in bars really difficult because of the ban on officer-enlisted personnel fraternization. Unless in uniform, many officers won't go near an on-base, mixed enlisted/officer club for fear of asking out an enlisted woman and risky severe censure. <br />     This is a really stunning book. Absolutely fascinating.	2002-10-30
US	53029856	R3NHJUFYSZ5XG	0375727515	696613642	A Trial by Jury	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Power of the State	Trials are a \\"retelling, in a string of words . . . a distressing distortion of the cluttered thickness of things as they happen.\\" <br />    Burnett is a Princeton history professor who writes of his experience as the foreman of a jury for a murder trial.  He became foreman, when the original foreman just disappeared, just before the deliberations were to begin. Burnett considered the experience \\"the most intense sixty-six hours [hours of jury deliberation; the entire experience lasted seventeen days] of my life.\\"<br />    The case itself was not famous, albeit with some sensational aspects involving rape, transvestitism, and male prostitution, but it's a fascinating story of intense clashes between personalities in the jury room and an honest recollection of how a jury came to its conclusion.  The various personalities on the jury come to life, and Burnett soon realizes that his stereotypical assumptions about some of them are drastically wrong. He comes across as somewhat stuffy and aloof, making a fetish of bringing his own food to eat (apples, nuts, etc.),  rather than be stuck eating the restaurant food (which he admits doesn't look too bad) and reading in a corner - \\"Academics cultivate a certain pomposity, most of them\\" - rather than socializing - something I can easily relate to.  He assumed he would not be chosen for the jury: \\"I promised to give any healthy prosecutor hives. I brought along a copy of The New York Review of Books just in case.\\"<br />    The jury is beset by frustration almost from the beginning.  The judge's instructions are maddeningly unclear or confusing.  The jurors have the choice of finding the accused guilty of first degree murder, second degree murder, or a variety of manslaughter charges, depending on their perception of his intent. And what of self-defense?  Did they need to decide whether a murder had been committed first? Each time they send a question out to the judge, they learn that the entire courtroom must be reassembled, taking considerable time, and this colors their willingness to ask questions.<br />     The truth can be elusive. \\"We associate truth with knowledge, with seeing things fully and clearly, but it is more correct to say that access to truth always depends on a very precise admixture of knowledge and ignorance.\\"  The jury puzzles over what they might not be allowed to see.  The Simpson trial is a good example of the audience knowing much more about the evidence and assorted witnesses than the jury, which was excluded from the room often. In this case, the jury is deliberately not permitted to learn about the background of the defendant or others related to the case, information the jury would have liked to have. Searching for  the truth haunts Burnett.  \\"I realize now that for me - humanist, an academic, a poetaster -  the primary aim of sustained thinking and talking had always been, in a way, more thinking and talking. Cycles of reading, interpreting, and discussing were always exactly that: cycles. One never 'solved' a poem, one read it, and then read it again - each reading emerging from earlier efforts and preparing the mind for future readings.\\"  <br />     The trial, contrarily, demanded a solution and Burnett's account of the intense deliberations of the jurors recalls Twelve Angry Men.<br />     The jury, in its inability to reach a verdict, quickly begins to debate the very nature of what constitutes justice.  Adelle, one of the jurors, another academic, said on the third day of deliberations, after a contentious second day, \\"We've been told that we have to uphold the law.  But I don't understand what allegiance I should have to the law itself.  Doesn't the whole authority of the law rest on its claim to be our system of justice? So, if the law isn't just, how can it have any force?\\"  Burnett \\"sensed that people were starting to perceive the law as overly clumsy, somehow that it was a blunt tool - and that the higher principle, justice, had cast a kind of spell in the room.\\"  In this case, the \\"dictates of justice demanded that we circumvent the law.\\"<br />     Ultimately, what the jurors came to realize was that the burden of proof for the prosecution is very high because the power of the state is so strong. The jurors themselves had been subject to this power.  They had been refused the right to go home [ they were refused phone calls home, were forced to stay in a moth-eaten motel and were refused the ability to have a a prescription refilled, ultimately sending one of the jurors to a hospital], sent \\"men with guns to watch you take a piss, it [the state] could deny you access to a lawyer [one of the jurors wanted to know her rights as a juror], it could embarrass you in public [the judge upbraided Burnett in public for standing  at slow moments to exercise a bad leg] and force you to reply meekly, it could, ultimately, send you to jail - all this without even accusing you of a crime.\\"	2002-10-30
US	53029856	RTEFRIYH8XDS6	078611228X	425399775	Death in a Strange Country	Books	5	60	63	N	N	Another winner from Leon	I continue to be an enormous fan of the Commisario Brunetti series.  For those of you who may have missed my earlier reviews, Donna Leon teaches English for the University of Maryland Extension near Venice and has lived in Italy for many years.  She portrays the flavor of Italian life vividly, and it's clear that while she must love living there, petty and not-so-petty corruption is rampant.  She makes delightfully wicked little comments.  For example, the Carabineri  major, interviewed by Brunetti on an American army post - not base, that's for the Air Force - waxes on about the characteristics of Americans.  They tend to be arrogant, of course, but Americans are really too insecure to be truly arrogant, \\"unlike the Germans.\\"  Classic.<br />    Brunetti is walking home through \\"battalions of ravaging tourists who centered their attacks on the area around San Marcos.  Each year it grew harder to have patience with them, to put up with their stop-and-go walking, with their insistence on walking three abreast through even the narrowest calles. There were times when he wanted to scream at them, even push them aside, but he contented himself by taking out all of his aggressions through the single expedient of refusing to stop, or in any way alter his course, in order to allow them a photo opportunity.  Because of this, he was sure that his body, back and elbow appeared in hundreds of photos and videos.  He sometimes contemplated the disappointed Germans looking at their summer videos during the violence of the North Sea storm as they watched a purposeful, dark-suited Italian walk in front of Tante Gerda or an Onkel  Franz, blurring, if only for a moment the lederhosen-clad tourists\\" with what was probably the only real Italian they would see during their stay.<br />     An American soldier, Sgt. Michael Foster, an American public health inspector at the American military hospital in Vicenza, has been found floating in one of the Venetian canals.  In an act of true heroism, two policemen jump in the water - the water being so dirty, hence the heroism -  and drag him out.  Brunetti's superior would like nothing better than to have the case buried, because the idea of an American being killed in Venice would ruin the tourist trade.  Brunetti purposefully manipulates his boss into thinking the murder might have been committed elsewhere - must think of tourism, of course - so he can be authorized to travel to the man's post and investigate.  An army captain, Dr. Peters,  a woman doctor, who had come to Venice to identify the body in the morgue, had vomited from what Brunetti thought was from fear, when she saw how the man had been killed, by a knife plunging directly through the ribs into the heart.  He suspects something is rather odd about this case, especially when he finds some cocaine that was not well hidden in the dead soldier's apartment, apparently after it had been thoroughly searched by the military authorities. The case becomes more complicated as both he and the Carabinieri major are politely warned off the case after they discover a connection between the dead soldier, a sick boy, contracts for the disposal of toxic waste, Brunetti's father-in-law, and the ostensible suicide by heroin overdose of Dr. Peters, not to mention the theft of some famous paintings from a prominent businessman.<br />    As with many of her other books, you are left at the end deeply saddened by the corruption, the illicit use of power and its effect on Brunetti, who, despite all, struggles on trying to stay an honest cop. He is a wonderful character.	2002-10-30
US	53029856	RI3N91R2T0XMK	0809323265	990760707	God Knows His Name: The True Story of John Doe No. 24	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Important story	On October 11, 1946, a black boy of indeterminate age was found wandering the streets of Jacksonville, Illinois.  When police discovered he was deaf, mute, and suspected to be retarded, he was sent to the Lincoln State School and Colony, a state facility that bore little resemblance to its name.  Had he been permitted to stay at the School for the Deaf, his life would have been completely different, but that school was not permitted to take retarded people.<BR>     The Lincoln School was a self-contained city having a farm with price-winning cattle and a dairy processing plant.  It generated its own power and returned thousands of dollars to the state treasury, thanks to the free labor provided by the residents (really inmates).  These people varied from the very severely retarded to those of borderline intelligence.  The place was vastly overcrowded, and the pecking order among residents was often established violently. <BR>    John Doe, as he was called since they were unable to identify him at all, was given an I.Q. test, but much like any test, if you don't understand the value or importance of the test, there will be little incentive to do well, even assuming you can understand what is expected of you.  A special test was used that had been designed for the deaf, but the examiner had difficulty conveying the purpose and instructions for the various tests that were disguised as games or puzzles. John's deafness and inexperience were a huge impediment, and, not surprisingly, he  scored very low on the test. This result was to haunt him for years to come.  After several unsuccessful escape attempts, John gradually adapted to his surroundings.  He had no known relatives so there was no one to claim him nor to send him packages or money that might help alleviate his situation.<BR>     By the mid-sixties, thanks in part to JFK's commitment to improving conditions and education for the mentally retarded and an Illinois commission, facilities and conditions were improving at the Lincoln School.  John Doe had now been there close to two decades.  Unfortunately, it was also the time of Chlorpromazine that the psychiatric profession had discovered could turn unruly or violent patients into virtually catatonic, but untroublesome, individuals.  It soon became the drug of choice for nearly everyone in an institution.  Despite regular doses, John was becoming one of the best students in the ASL class that had been started for the deaf residents.  He became a trustee and was placed in charge of several other patients, helping them to dress and to get ready for the day.<BR>     By 1973 the side effects of the drugs began to manifest themselves and John was inflicted with diabetes and glaucoma. In 1975, the Lincoln School was converted into a state prison, and John was sent to the Jacksonville Developmental Center.  He was now totally blind, but thanks to a few dedicated individuals, his talents were recognized and he was sent to the Helen Keller School. This provided him with the skills he needed to subsequently live in a series of group homes.  <BR>     He died a few years later, but to this day no one has still been able to track down his identity.	2002-10-30
US	53029856	R2NS941911P4NC	0385336004	587637152	Dialogues of the Dead	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Hill just keeps getting better and better	Detective Constable Bowler, who, in a fit of paranomasia (wordplay, punning) has been nicknamed, \\"Hat,\\" would like to date Ray (Raina) Pamona, the local reference librarian.  She and her boss, Dee, have been assigned the onerous task of judging submissions to the local fiction story contest.  Dee and Ray notice that two of the entries from the same writer bear striking resemblance to two recent unexplained deaths, and they wonder how the writer could have obtained such intimate details.  They turn the stories over to Hat.  Enter Superintendent Dalziel (pronounced \\"Dee-l\\" ) and DCI Pascoe. Dalziel is his usual fat, curmudgeonly self who mutters things like, \\" 'Don't want them blowflies from the media around till we know there's dead meat and it's not us,' \\" and \\" 'One thing you've got to say about George [another inspector], he's been real conscientious helping to break in his replacement. ' 'Thought we weren't getting a replacement, sir' [said Sergeant Wield]. 'That's what I mean,' \\" replied Dalziel. Andy Dalziel loves hiding his rapier-sharp mind behind crude talk and behavior, and he loves to deflate pompous egos, pretending to misunderstand their pedantries. When one expert adviser presents what he calls an \\"interesting\\" theory, Dalziel responds, \\"If you're waiting for a bus and a giraffe walks down the street, that's interesting. But it doesn't get you anywhere.\\" <BR>   <BR>      DCI Peter Pascoe  remains the perfect foil.  Well-educated and refined, he's conscientious to a fault and impeccably polite even if he does have a snit on about an ex-convict he thinks might be the killer.<br />     The detectives are soon in the midst of numerous investigations, as the \\"Wordman\\" so-named embarks on a killing spree, tantilizing the public and police by sending literate descriptive passages describing how the murders were accomplished.<br />       All of Hill's books revel in paranomania ( a clinical obsession with word games), but in this one he has outdone himself. Virtually every page has some kind of pun, and it turns out the murderer was using the beginning and ending word entries of volumes of the OED to define his/her (believe me, you'll thank me for not revealing the gender of the murderer) next victim.<br />      Hill is so erudite it can take your breath away, and how he can come up with phrases like the following defy my imagination: ...<br />     The ending will astonish and surprise you.	2002-10-30
US	53029856	R3EZD1WJ2LUN18	0786118318	451667811	The Unruly Life of Woody Allen	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Enjoyably scandalous	Bright as he was, or perhaps because he was so intelligent, Woody (born Allan Konigsberg) was a difficult child at school, often playing hooky, his mother making numerous trips to school to explain his behavior.  He was a reluctant reader, although he would devour as many as fifty comic books per day.  He was addicted to movies, plunking down 11 cents for a double feature in the air-conditioned comfort of the neighborhood theater, a rather forbidding place with rats scurrying around the floor.<br />     Despite his self-depiction in his movies, Allen was not bashful nor repressed as a child, and he was considered a bad influence by the parents of most of his friends.  He would practice magic tricks for hours each day, becoming quite proficient. His mother could be quite a nag, but Woody would often dish it right back.  Once, when she had a patch over one eye because of a cataract and she was haranguing him about something, he shot back, \\"Shut up Mom, or I'll blind your other eye.\\"<br />     His first marriage, to Harlene, was not a success.  Married in their teens, they had to move back in with her parents after the Colgate Show folded.  He had been writing for them.  Neil Simon's brother, Danny, took an interest in him and taught him that writing jokes was not enough; he needed to learn how to write whole sketches. It was about this time that he began therapy, insisting he was constantly depressed.  He used to joke that his wife's cooking tasted like coffee, everything, even the eggs. The marriage was strained, but his career was beginning to take off, and he wrote for Sid Caesar's Show of Shows.  He was soon working around the clock.  His jokes about their marriage were borne silently by \\"Mrs. Woody\\" as she was rather derisively called. He remarked she looked like Olive Oil in the Popeye comics. She was studying philosophy and German, however, and she encouraged him to broaden his reading.  They realized the marriage was a mistake and his belittling of his wife did not help. (For example he made comments that he almost choked to death on a bone in her chocolate pudding and he gave her an electric chair disguised as a hair dryer for her birthday; she was so bumble-brained that after burning herself it took her two minutes to think of the word \\"ouch;\\" or his wife was raped, but knowing her it was not considered a moving violation.)  They were divorced after six years, just before Woody made it big.<br />     Soon he became enamored with Louise Lasser, a talented actress and singer. Her mother was a depressive and never forgave Louise for preventing her suicide, something she was to eventually succeed at.  More grist for Woody's therapy mill.<BR>   Allen's comedy was evolving into the self-deprecating analysis of Allen Konigsberg (\\"My parents rented out my room after I was kidnapped,\\" and \\"My mother nursed me through falsies.\\") By 1969, he had gotten over his stage fright and become the hottest comic in the U.S.<br />     Meade, author of a very good biography of Eleanor of Aquitaine, goes into considerable detail concerning the accusations and counter-charges related to Woody's affair and subsequent marriage to Sooni, Mia Farrow's adopted daughter.  Bizarre doesn't even begin to describe the hate that resulted from this ill-advised liaison. Meade also describes Allen's movies, although most after the Sooni debacle and media frenzy hardly seem worth watching. It must be hard to write a biography of a living person and we'll just have to watch and see what happens in future years.  Stay tuned.	2002-10-30
US	53029856	RZY4GJVNQ9749	0060192119	316982155	As Nature Made Him: The Boy Who Was Raised as A Girl	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Disturbing account of professional misconduct	This book will make you very angry  that a child could be so maltreated by an expert, who clearly was in need of help himself, but who was so intent on proving a theory that he disregarded substantial evidence to the contrary.  Youll be angry, too, with other professionals who were reluctant to challenge the great man even when their own evidence pointed in an opposite direction.  But youll be astonished and satisfied by the incredible fortitude of a young child who realized that something was wrong and in his own way stood up to the extraordinary pressure that was put on him.<br />  David Reimer was the victim of numerous mistakes.  The first was a botched circumcision that essentially fried his penis.  Then he became subject to the attempts of a famous sex researcher to verify his theories about the nature of gender development.  The result was a lot of pain for David and his family.<br />  Colapinto got permission from the family to write this book, and all conversations, everything in quotes, is from transcripts or documents.  All the scarier.<br />  It all began when David (then called Bruce) and his identical twin brother Brian were diagnosed with a condition called phimosis that circumcision normally repaired.  Bruce was operated on first, but a serious mistake in the voltage levels of the electrical surgical device was made and his genitalia burned beyond salvage.  The medical staff suggested that Bruce be raised as a girl.  This was at a time when feminist theory, supported by some psychologists, proposed that gender identity had nothing to do with biology: it was all a social construct.  Eventually, the parents were referred to Dr. Money at Johns Hopkins University.  Money was a world-renowned sex researcher who apparently suffered from a multitude of sex hang-ups himself.  Money had staked his reputation on the belief that sexual identity was socially determined, and he had worked with numerous transsexuals.  When Bruces parents showed up with an identical twin who had no male genitalia, it was an obvious answer to his prayers, for now he could develop data from a twin study to validate Moneys theories.  Money and his colleagues at Johns Hopkins had performed numerous sex reassignment surgeries on hermaphrodite children, but no such operation had ever been attempted on a child born with normal genitalia and nervous system, a distinction that the parents, Ron and Janet, never grasped until years later.  Moneys conviction was the procedure would be successful; I see no reason why it shouldnt work,  he told them.  The decision had to be made early, because, according to his theory, there was a gender identity gate at which point the child was locked into a male or female identity.  Bruce became Brenda and was raised as a girl. There were problems from the start, but Money insisted he was right and continued to promote the case as an example of the correctness of his theory of psychosexual neutrality at birth.<br />  In the meantime, at the University of Kansas, a young researcher was studying the role of hormones on behavior, and in a paper published in the late fifties, he marshaled considerable evidence from biology, psychology, psychiatry, anthropology, and endocrinology to argue that gender identity is hardwired into the brain virtually from conception.  Hermaphrodites had an inborn neurological capability to go both ways, a capability that genetically normal children would not share.<br />  The researcher, Milton Diamond, was to become a thorn in Moneys side as he marshaled considerable evidence of the role of prenatal hormones in determining gender identity.  Moneys accusation that Diamonds alliance with unscrupulous media caused the cessation of what would have been the culmination and piece de resistance of his lifes work, the twin study, finally pushed Diamond to a public response in the form of a paper.  Moneys work was still being used to support the behaviorist proponents in the psychological community, who were still trying to convert and change adult homosexuals back to a heterosexual orientation. In the meantime, Money had been uncharacteristically silent what was occurring with the twins.  Diamond managed to track down the psychiatrist,Keith Sigmundson, who had been working with Brenda/David in the intervening years.  Having seen firsthand the implementation of Moneys theories, Sigmundson, after reading Diamond's papers and convincing himself of Diamonds research integrity, agreed that something needed to be documented publicly as to the outcome of the case.<br />  By this time, Brenda had become David, reverting to male, and had married.  His parents, after years of therapy for the whole family, had finally broken with Money, and told Brenda of the genital removal. David had married and wanted to put everything behind him, but finally agreed to meet with Diamond.  Realizing after their conversations that his case was being used as evidence to support the implementation of Moneys theories in other cases, he decided he had to speak out.  The resulting paper warned physicians of the dangers of surgical sexual reassignment, especially for intersexual newborns, since physicians have no way of predicting in which direction the infants gender identity has differentiated.  Assigning a sex, i.e. name, hair length, and clothing, was one thing, but irreversible surgical intervention had to be avoided until the child was old enough to determine and articulate. To rear the child in a consistent gender  but keep away the knife, was the caveat expressed by as Diamond to Colapinto.<br />  One of the more interesting side issues I think the book raises is the nature of authority, i.e. what constitutes being an expert.  Certainly, being right, correct, and knowledgeable appears not to be criteria.upport the behaviorist proponents in the psychological community, who were still trying to convert and change adult homosexuals back to a heterosexual orientation. In the meantime, Money had been uncharacteristically silent what was occurring with the twins.  Diamond managed to track down the psychiatrist,Keith Sigmundson, who had been working with Brenda/David in the intervening years.  Having seen firsthand the implementation of Moneys theories, Sigmundson, after reading Diamond's papers and convincing himself of Diamonds research integrity, agreed that something needed to be documented publicly as to the outcome of the case.  <BR>       By this time, Brenda had become David, reverting to male, and had married.  His parents, after years of therapy for the whole family, had finally broken with Money, and told Brenda of the genital removal. David had married and wanted to put everything behind him, but finally agreed to meet with Diamond.  Realizing after their conversations that his case was being used as evidence to support the implementation of Moneys theories in other cases, he decided he had to speak out.  The resulting paper warned physicians of the dangers of surgical sexual reassignment, especially for intersexual newborns, since physicians have no way of predicting in which direction the infants gender identity has differentiated.  Assigning a sex, i.e. name, hair length, and clothing, was one thing, but irreversible surgical intervention had to be avoided until the child was old enough to determine and articulate. To rear the child in a consistent gender  but keep away the knife, was the caveat expressed by as Diamond to Colapinto.<BR>      One of the more interesting side issues I think the book raises is the nature of authority, i.e. what constitutes being an expert.  Certainly, being right, correct, and knowledgeable appears not to be criteria.	2002-10-30
US	53029856	R1ATWJIFZZJTYH	0754001563	931358671	The Death of Faith	Books	5	25	34	N	N	I Love Donna Leon	Donna Leon takes the mystery genre beyond the standard \\"who-done-it\\" and that what makes her novels so enjoyable. The endings of all of the Brunetti novels I have read (most of them) are rather dark and unresolved.  She has a very cynical (realistic?) view of the way the Italian world works - or doesn't work.  Corruption is rampant and Commissario Brunetti struggles to maintain a commitment to justice amidst the corruption. He also has a wonderful relationship with Pauola, his wife, that is so nice.  Donna Leon really makes you want to meet the characters.  I think she's wonderful and hope she never stops writing.	2002-03-08
US	53029856	R2DSUCMT8E3K6Y	0787948136	222518319	The Passion Plan : A Step-By-Step Guide to Discovering, Developing, and Living Your Passion	Books	1	19	23	N	N	More silliness	An awful lot of people are making an awful lot of money dishing out what amounts to either common sense or drivel. Here the author requires almost 300 pages to state what could have been said in 5 to 10.  If this is an example of what passes for substantive executive training than heaven help us.  Borrow the book from a library if you must, skim a couple of the pages and you'll have all of it.  Don't waste your money.	2001-01-27
US	53029856	R38Y5GVN8P5VX8	188292634X	339537917	Plagues of the Mind: The New Epidemic of False Knowledge	Books	1	38	73	N	N	Hoist by one's own petard	While there is much to agree with in Thornton's admittedly interesting jeremiad, he falls into the trap of false knowledge he accuses others of having fallen into. Filled with clever quotes and wonderful slams at the  admitted silliness of environmentalists and postmodernists, he nevertheless  consistently makes sweeping generalizations based on often little more than  reference to nineteenth century novels. For example, he quotes Herbert  Marcuse, using him as a representative of silly thinking during the sixties  and then proceeds to blame him (and the sixties) for &quot;sexual disease,  sexual degradation in the media and popular culture, unwed teen mothers,  feral children raised by moral idiots, . . . (p. 25).  He vilifies the  &quot;cleverness with language&quot; of the postmodern antirationalist yet  on the same page indulges in the use of words like rodomontade and  epiphenomena (47). Isolated anecdotes and examples are used to draw  sweeping conclusions.  For example, &quot;This is not to say that  contemporary poststructuralists are incipient mass murderes. BUT [emphasis  mine] the connection between their ideas and the dehumanization that makes  mass murder possible must be acknowledged.&quot; (49)  Oh really?  This is  an example of rational thinking?  It's unfortunate, Thornton has some very  good points to make, but does not make them satisfactorily.	2000-03-05
