US	53025104	R3IEDFZN8GQP31	1884313477	879251747	The Motorcycle Safety Foundation's Guide to Motorcycling Excellence: Skills, Knowledge, and Strategies for Riding Right (2nd Edition)	Books	4	115	118	N	N	"The more you know the better it gets" (from the frontispiece)	MOTORCYCLING EXCELLENCE is perhaps the best nuts-and-bolts primer on motorcycle riding yet published. It covers the subject thoroughly, a single source for knowledge and wisdom in the basics. It addresses attitude, basic skills, controls, gear, safety inspections, night and group riding, streetb strategies, off-road techniques . . . the gamut of essentials. Plus the basics of training, from the Motorcycle Safety Foundation, official authors of the book.<br /><br />Most people, perhaps 90% of road users, consider motorcycles as 'just other vehicles.' They aren't. Motorcycles are as different from four-and-more wheelers as swimming is from walking, as reading is from watching TV. Learning to operate a motorcycle safely and well is as difficult, but as challenging and rewarding as, say, learning to fly, scuba dive or climb mountains--and survive. Like those other unforgiving pursuits, do it right or risk serious consequences. Motorcycling is an honest trade: incompetence, inattention or bad luck can kill or maim in seconds. That's where this book shines, in identifying and hammering home the essentials.<br /><br />Expert contributors--a 'who's-who' of experience: Nick Ienatsch on picking the right bike, World MotoGP champion on safety gear and bike control, Paul Thede on suspension, AMA 250 champion Rich Oliver on stopping, Erik Buell on bike geometry, Reg Pridmore on the need for smoothness, Keith Code on counter-steering, World MotoGP champion Freddie Spencer on trail braking.<br /><br />Why read this book? Complex, high-risk activities demand study and practice at all experience levels. In an era in which school-student driver training has been discontinued and the road IQ of most car drivers is at flat-worm level, riders are at risk and must defend themselves. Every ride is a learning experience. This book will enhance the first, high-risk 50,000 miles in every rider's life (thus it's an ideal gift for offspring). And the next 250,000 miles for experienced riders.<br /><br />The illustrations and photographs are lavish and excellent. The appendices--MSF training, proper bike inspection, and a glossary--are thorough and well done. There are omissions, though, whence the loss of a review 'star:' e.g. tire compromise between wear and stiction (which is not yet intuitive for many riders), the availability of waterproof linings such as Goretex for gear. The editing, too, lacks polish--too many passages are prolix and rambling instead of being tight and tough. The message gets through, anyway.trations and photographs are lavish and excellent. The appendices--MSF training, proper bike inspection, and a glossary--are thorough and well done. There are omissions, though, whence the loss of a review 'star:' e.g. tire compromise between wear and stiction (which is not yet intuitive for many riders), the availability of waterproof linings such as Goretex for gear. The editing, too, lacks polish--too many passages are prolix and rambling instead of being tight and tough. The message gets through, anyway.	2005-09-02
US	53025104	R3OQZ2F5G9U5AV	0970425449	337478483	Winning II	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Moffat: Soaring's Oracle	George Moffat is a double world soaring champion (Open Class, 1970 and 1974), a frequent U.S. national champion and one of the most skilled, experienced and courageous sailplane pilots who ever flew. Better still, he is a writer of formidable power and purpose. When he 'speaks,' pilots should pay attention. We ignore him at--literally--our peril.<br /><br />His first book, WINNING ON THE WIND (1975) traced his early soaring and contest flying from the era of 'sticks and glue' gliders (Ka-6, Standard Austria, Elfe) to his triumphs with the early composite birds such as the Nimbus crafted by a young genius, Klaus Holighaus, and beyond. Comprised primarily of his articles in SOARING magazine, the book reviewed the principles by which glider pilots learn to fly better, faster, safer and more competitively. You didn't have to be a contest pilot, a glider pilot or even a pilot to enjoy it. The writing alone was worth the reader's time.<br /><br />Now Moffat has done it again, updating his masterwork into a new book no pilot or reader can afford to ignore. In fact, as he points out, every flight in any airplane should be used to improve one's skills, not just stooge about in the sky.<br /><br />The book, with typically whimisical but insightful introduction by Michael ('Platypus') Bird, is divided usefully into sections similar to the original, from 'Changes in Competitive Soaring,' to 'Contest Flying Techniques' to a series of compelling 'Soaring Stories,' which will interest pilots and non pilots at many levels. Moffat updated his new book to October 2004, but it will be many more years before anyone writes with equal clarity about the marvelous, difficult, frustrating but inspiring sport and art of soaring. This is writing of the highest order, yet rendered in the style of the man: low key and unassuming, despite its tremendous punch and importance.<br /><br />Winning, Moffat writes, comes out of personal energy that is focused and applied efficiently. This is a metaphor for life itself but it is more: a lovely coincidence, since extracting energy from Nature is the essence of the act of soaring.a metaphor for life itself but it is more: a lovely coincidence, since extracting energy from Nature is the essence of the act of soaring.	2005-05-17
US	53025104	R1N47UYMAGGPX2	159376006X	939694571	Gods of Tin: The Flying Years	Books	5	22	24	N	Y	Sun, stars, water and clouds	James Salter ranks among the finest writers in America, a stylist of extraordinary skill, and this new book about his F-86 flying experiences in Korea demonstrates his remarkable abilities.<br /><br />However seeming simple the basic act, writing well is as difficult as flying well, and flows from a lifetime of patient, humble practice and learning. The precision with which Salter puts words together, and the pleasure and satisfaction a reader derives from assimilating those words, transcend the subject matter and move to the sublime. Salter is a master craftsman who works with a deceptive effortlessness that distills essence and emotion into forms that drive directly to the point. Every reader who likes great writing will enjoy this book and will learn from it not just about the subject matter but about the art of literary composition.<br /><br />In other words, one need not be a pilot to enjoy Salter's work in this new book, assembled from material that is now half a century old. He does not clutter it up with unnecessary technicalities (flying jet fighters is complex). His book SOLO FACES (see my review) shows that he is a writer who can capture the heart of the matter and convey it to the reader's mind with lyrical literary skill.<br /><br />The production values of this book deserve mention: Shoemaker/Hoard is a relatively small Press who obviously lavish meticulous attention on their work, and it shows.<br /><br />Why \\"Sun, stars, water and clouds\\" as the title of this review? The words are taken from Salter's book, page 121, describing what the ancients claimed are the greatest things to be seen. What better place to see them than from a fighter cockpit?	2004-10-07
US	53025104	R1JJ71MQVMNAYT	1884313469	430813309	Smooth Riding the Pridmore Way	Books	4	40	44	N	N	Definitive	Reg Pridmore explains his title this way: &quot;Being smooth isn't just an artful and elegant way to ride, though it is these things too. You must be smooth before you can go fast, and be smooth to be safe.&quot; He's talking about winning and survival.<br />Pridmore is a former AMA Superbike champion, known since 1986 for his CLASS track schools, which thousands of riders have attended. He brings 50 years of riding, racing and teaching experience to the task, in this book, of passing on his lessons in print, emphasizing safety. His style is very first person, totally sure of himself, utterly uncompromising.<br />Winners win and street riders survive, Pridmore explains, through lifelong learning, working constantly to improve their technique and eliminate their mistakes and bad habits.<br />This book is not a quick or particularly easy read and is best taken in bites. The interleaved anecdotes from the author's rich racing and riding experience are occasionally intrusive but always entertaining and informative. The photos, by some of the best in the business, are sensational (many from Reg's collection are sadly uncredited).<br />Reg's starts with the essential, basic element: attitude. He goes on to discuss the core need for smoothness, to avoid upsetting the subtle dynamics of a motorcycle at speed. He talks about 'control,' analyzing the correct approaches to throttle management and proper braking (as a racer he was known as a 'late braker' of formidable finesse). He candidly scathes the clumsy, brutal application of throttle or brakes.<br />Readers who liked Nick Ienatsch's SPORT RIDING TECHNIQUES, reviewed here by me, will not be disappointed by Pridmore's SMOOTH RIDING but will note many divergences in opinion, especially the endless controversy between body steering, which Pridmore espouses, and 'countersteering' at the bars. Capable riders use every bodily sensor and muscle group to achieve results. There are few 'perfect' answers. Readers know the difference between road and track, affecting every aspect of riding, and Pridmore includes substantial material on street, group, wet-weather and two-up riding.<br />Pridmore wants us to take in his book, understand it, make it work for us every time we ride, considering every aspect each time we throw a leg over a bike. Every gearshift, every brake application, every twist of the throttle, every line, every body position, must be optimized for smoothness, speed and safety. That's his message and it comes across clearly.road and track, affecting every aspect of riding, and Pridmore includes substantial material on street, group, wet-weather and two-up riding.<BR>Pridmore wants us to take in his book, understand it, make it work for us every time we ride, considering every aspect each time we throw a leg over a bike. Every gearshift, every brake application, every twist of the throttle, every line, every body position, must be optimized for smoothness, speed and safety. That's his message and it comes across clearly.	2004-05-22
US	53025104	R1QD3IFL8094TD	1893618277	983149310	Ducati 999	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Brilliant and beautiful	Whether or not you're a fan of Ducati, its chief designer Pierre Terblanche, or authors Alan Cathcart and Marc Cook, you can't ignore this beautiful, brilliant book. It's an absorbing account of a motorcycle's evolution, at unprecedented levels of detailed reportage. The still and action photos--the latter by Kevin Wing particularly pleasing--are exquisite, detailed and informative.<br />Most enthuasiasts know Ducati's remarkable race history over the last half century, from the great bevel-gear machines whose valve acuation evolved into today's signature desmodromic technology, up to its amazing 2003 MotoGP bike (podiums in its first year!). The V-twin Pantah, suitably bored, stroked and beefed up, eventually using water instead of air to cool, begat the 851, 900S, 888, 916, 996, 998 and now the 999. The book's depth and detail are riveting. Ducati's people, originals to the core, create the focus. No worthwhile vehicle--no designed object of any significance--can be created without committed individuals who believe in what they are doing, into the bones.<br />David Gross, Ducati's creative director, wrote a candid foreword, revealing Terblanche as interesting and controversial. A bit like BMW Cars's Chris Bangle, Terblanche comes across as an egotist--not always right but never in doubt--who despises his critics.<br />This is not a perfect book despite its brilliance and production quality. We needed to see dyno comparisons of the various progenitors to the 999, reference to the WSB 999s vs. the production bikes, and 999/R/S spec comparisons that explain the significant cost differentials.<br />Also, note that this is not investigative reporting. Ducati wouldn't have let Cathcart or Cook into the joint if there had been any suspicion of deviation from an unsullied portrait. And Cathcart's relentless egotism jars--we get yet another opinion or picture of him on a Ducati, neglecting many of the great champions mentioned but not pictured, such as Hailwood, Polen and others. This facet alone removes a star from my review.<br />Nitpicking aside, this is a remarkable and magnificent book written, photographed and produced by genuine enthusiasts who have given us an unprecedented look into the development of a great motorcycle. It stands alongside some of the best of its kind, up there with the Guggenheim's &quot;Art of the Motorcycle&quot; and Nick Ienatsch's SPORT RIDING TECHNIQUES (a David Bull book), both reviewed by me for Amazon. David Bull is publishing at the pinnacle of the motorcycling world.This facet alone removes a star from my review.<BR>Nitpicking aside, this is a remarkable and magnificent book written, photographed and produced by genuine enthusiasts who have given us an unprecedented look into the development of a great motorcycle. It stands alongside some of the best of its kind, up there with the Guggenheim's &quot;Art of the Motorcycle&quot; and Nick Ienatsch's SPORT RIDING TECHNIQUES (a David Bull book), both reviewed by me for Amazon. David Bull is publishing at the pinnacle of the motorcycling world.	2003-12-07
US	53025104	R3TTNU3N5CD1I8	029596152X	631988172	Spitfire: A Test Pilot's Story	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Essential for every pilot	Langewiesche's brilliant STICK AND RUDDER now has a companion volume equally important to pilots: the outstanding SPITFIRE by Jeffrey Quill.<br />STICK examines, in clearly expressed and practical detail, the core elements of flight. SPITFIRE translates many of the same lessons into an absorbing, practical history of the flight test and development of one famous aircraft. It gives flesh and blood to the act of flight that is, at the bottom, a scientific endeavour. It also chronicles the behaviour and cultural anthropology of a nation at war, and chronicles the responses of able, energetic men and women who would not accept defeat. There isn't a dull page in it.<br />Quill writes excellently and candidly in an understated way, with a self-effacing sense of humour that is endearing. His grasp of technical detail is positioned and expressed precisely at the level of the general reader, not patronising to pilots and not over the head of those not skilled in the cockpit.<br />It might be easy to dismiss this book, describing flying work done half a century ago, as irrelevant to current aircraft and flying. That would be wrong. Every pilot who takes stick and rudder in hand and under foot should read this book, not just for the pleasure of it but because it conveys the hands-on realities of flying that most of us experience regardless of what we fly.<br />In fact, by describing a world of flight before many of today's electronic and physical 'aids' to flying, Quill reminds us of our roots and grounds us in flying's realities. Unless you are one of those who believes that flying requires autopilots and 'glass' cockpits, that flight plans and air traffic control are the crutches of cross-country flight, and that you do not need to comprehend the basic of flight to master a modern aircraft, this is essential reading.<br />This is a wonderful book of timeless value.	2003-09-01
US	53025104	R2006ZK1U1KEX3	0142004235	974134151	East of Eden, John Steinbeck Centennial Edition	Books	5	17	22	N	N	Brilliant and timeless	John Steinbeck, despite past controversy, is one of America's finest novelists, fully deserving the resurgence in interest caused by The Oprah Phenomenon. It reflects the current cultural mania for 'names' that it takes such publicity to attract readers to someone who should be read anyway. Steinbeck is so much better than so many highly touted writers of today that the 'name' mania seems bizarre, inexplicable.<br />East of Eden is beautifully written in every sense--story, plot and characters. It draws the reader in from the start and demands to be read, to savor the magnificent prose and wonder at the skills of observation and exposition Steinbeck demonstrates. Some critics have suggested, over the decades since the book was first published, that the author pushed his biblical allegories too far, that Kathy was outrageous and improbable in her behavior, that the depictions of time and place were harsh and unrealistic. Those critics had clearly led simple lives and had never been exposed to actual people who behaved far worse--yes, they truly exist--or actual places where the cultural landscape was equally complex and often agony to experience.<br />It is perhaps difficult for a modern reader to adopt the attitude that would permit the comfortable assimilation of East of Eden. It is not a modern book, but this novel proves that great writing transcends time and fad, that Steinbeck was a hugely talented, powerful and fearless writer who could tackle difficult material and convey it with searing intensity.<br />I have re-read this book many times and remain in awe at how powerful and memorable it is. Having read, perhaps, 25,000 or more books in my life, I rate this among the top 10 and find it magnificent in every way.	2003-07-02
US	53025104	R134RBPH7LMB5C	0765304716	113122238	Dawn Over Kitty Hawk: The Novel of the Wright Brothers	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Enthralling history	Whenever Walter Boyne sits down to write about aviation you simply know that the result will be enthralling, informative, and engaging in the most direct human ways. So it is with DAWN, one of the most important books about the Wrights ever written. Boyne brings all his experience, knowledge and writing skills to bear on the epochal Wrights and builds for the reader a new level of understanding about the men who dared so greatly and succeeded so admirably, who established the core of what has become a century later one of the world's most significant areas of endeavour. Along with the telephone, car and computer, the airplane has been one of the most powerful pivots of modern life, giving rise--for example--to today's biggest world industry, tourism. The Wrights risked their lives and committed their skills to make it possible, and this book tells us how.<br />It also manages to debunk many of the myths and half-truths that invade almost any history.<br />Isn't it curious how achievements seem almost obvious given the 20/20 hindsight of those of us who came afterwards? This book provides, through fiction meticulously researched and aligned with history, everything we should know factually about the Wrights, framed in a human perspective that gives the men juices and their achievements a more brilliant and accessible reality. One completes the book wishing that one could have been there to witness the events and meet the men, but Boyne brings us very close to those feelings.<br />Millions of men and women are the beneficiaries of the Wrights efforts, and of the aerospace industry for which they laid down the foundations. Anyone who has ever flown, or been carried in an airplane, or looked up to see those magnificent machines overhead, should read this book. They will not be disappointed.	2003-06-23
US	53025104	R2L836H782XZ4R	1893618072	678977797	Sport Riding Techniques: How To Develop Real World Skills for Speed, Safety, and Confidence on the Street and Track	Books	5	72	84	N	N	The Master Speaks	When a rider and writer of Nick Ienatsch's stature puts all his wisdom, knowledge and experience into a book, it's time to sit up and listen carefully, especially these days when 100-HP 600s and 140-HP 1,000s are ripping 10-second quarter miles at 140+ (G-SXR 1000 tests) and are available to anyone with $ whether or not they have a clue.<br />Nick is among the very best writers about motorcycling, ever, up there with Don Canet and Kevin Cameron (no point in ranking them subjectively, because all three are excellent). He is also a champion racer, primarily on 250s. Having ridden on the road with him, I attest to his smooth, skilled way of proceeding, and his concern for safety.<br />This book should be required reading for every rider who puts a wheel on road or track. Once read, it should be memorized and used as the core belief set that will make a rider quicker and safer, and every ride more enjoyable, including anyone else who is along for the pleasure of it. No one should dare suggest that he or she is 'above it,' knows better and 'doesn't need' the lessons Ienatsch teaches. We all do. This book will, among other things, keep a rider alive to ride again and enjoy one of the most interesting and pleasurable ways to get down the road devised by Man.<br />Don't argue with me. Get it.<br />PS One of life's ironies is that Ienatsch, one of the best writers on motorcycling who ever puts finger to keyboard, doesn't have a regular gig and is only read intermittently in CYCLE WORLD. Let's hope that changes, soon.	2003-06-14
US	53025104	RVW99XAJ5OOGN	067945232X	753693393	Action!: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Seductive soap opera	Robert Cort has all the credentials necessary to write a compelling book about the movie business and he has done so. He has been to the mountain top and seen it all from the heights, and also from the depths--and among the world's businesses, the movie industry has depths that will never truly be plumbed. When power, money and emotion get together, bodies start to pile up.<br />Cort set out to write an insider's page turner, and that's what ACTION! is. The book drives on, irresistibly, at times delivering for the reader a fascinated horror at what it reveals about the men and women who make movies, but always achieving a level of credibility attainable only from experience.<br />The plot is a fictional, three-generation family saga, peppered with the names and histories of many known industry individuals and their factual pasts--actors, producers, studio heads, agents, agency heads, with the additional relish of invented characters, some of whose behavior is dreadful, amoral, vicious. Most of them are difficult to like or respect at any level, except for the dead patriarch who believed in truth, decency and integrity--and much good it did him. For the most part the protagonists are driven by the need for power, money, sex and drugs, in large amounts and in no particular order.<br />It's tempting to try to read between the lines, to discover the facts lurking behind the fiction, put real names and faces to the fictional characters, to imagine where the author is sending messages and settling scores--in an industry of unimaginable personal vindictiveness and associated bad behavior. But Cort moves the story along so fast and covers most of the characters so superficially that it's difficult or impossible for an outsider to draw valid conclusions. In the end one just lies back and enjoys the ride, while wishing at times that a few of the myriad trails into the pit would lead somewhere. He does manage, however, to explain the current MBA-driven, bottom-line-at-all-costs attitude that has ruined film as a story-telling medium, describing a director: \\"The secret of his success was recognizing that young audiences didn't care about being moved or improved--they wanted action. So (he) dealt them a visual rush with visceral state-of-the-art spectacles.\\" Ugh.<br />Cort is a workmanlike writer, focusing on delivering information and results rather than literature or poetry, and the approach is undoubtedly correct for the book. Despite occasional mistakes (launch from an aircraft carrier, p351, presses one back in the seat and does not \\"slam the body forward against the harness\\"), the words flow at a pleasing pace.<br />Near the end of the book, Cort delivers the perfect analysis of the industry in which he has spent much of his professional life, when one character observes: \\"Who cares about the movie business? I don't like these people or the films they make.\\"<br />All generalizations are false, a paradox. But Cort nails it, right there.tude that has ruined film as a story-telling medium, describing a director: \\"The secret of his success was recognizing that young audiences didn't care about being moved or improved--they wanted action. So (he) dealt them a visual rush with visceral state-of-the-art spectacles.\\" Ugh.<BR>Cort is a workmanlike writer, focusing on delivering information and results rather than literature or poetry, and the approach is undoubtedly correct for the book. Despite occasional mistakes (launch from an aircraft carrier, p351, presses one back in the seat and does not \\"slam the body forward against the harness\\"), the words flow at a pleasing pace.  <BR>Near the end of the book, Cort delivers the perfect analysis of the industry in which he has spent much of his professional life, when one character observes: \\"Who cares about the movie business? I don't like these people or the films they make.\\"<BR>All generalizations are false, a paradox. But Cort nails it, right there.	2003-06-08
US	53025104	R7TU9DR4CM81S	0385497717	548814469	London: The Biography	Books	5	10	12	N	Y	Definitive	How can one read a book of almost 800 pages in the midst of a busy life? This question is daunting to many readers.<br />As a Londoner permanently fascinated by my birthplace I started this immense read by dipping into aspects that first interested me, because the contents are conveniently arranged by subject area (theatre, architecture, etc.). Then I expanded my interests until, finally, I had read it all--at least at a superficial level. Only repeated readings will enable the reader to assimilate it as part of an individual intellectual landscape and memory. This is a veritable 'groaning board' of data.<br />Peter Ackroyd's scholarship is meticulous and results in a work of dense information matched by high levels of entertainment--he is an excellent writer. However well one might know individual aspects of London, there are constant surprises and insights that engage the curious reader.<br />This is not a tourist guide book, quite unlike the various 'London walks' offerings that are frequently delightful and helpful, but is the Ackroyd's attempt to explain the mystery of London over the centuries. It is a tribute to the immense effort he put into this work that it works well at many levels. His 'Essay on Sources' with which he closes the book is itself a mine of information and will send many readers scurrying to the bookshelf or library for further exploration.<br />For anyone with a love of London, this is essential reading.	2003-05-14
US	53025104	RSRGEPHVHJXU	0142001805	89209679	The Eyre Affair: A Thursday Next Novel	Books	3	3	9	N	N	Not too bad for a first effort	Jasper Fforde (is this a real name?--I doubt it!) has put togther a reasonably amusing and workmanlike (workwomanlike?) first novel which we are promised (or warned?) is the first of a series. Fforde explores his/her borrowed premises of 'fact/fiction' and 'time travel' with facility and wit, though many American readers may be baffled by the relentlessly British references and names (how many Yanks know what a Bowden Cable is, for example). Some material is stretched beyond its elastic limit in terms of interest or credibility--consider airships, featured in the book, that could have been explored with far more insight and amusement but are merely tossed in without perspective or apparent information.<br />Flashes of brilliance and wonderful whimsy are interspersed by plodding and inconsistent use of the language and insufficient descriptive detail which would have enriched the text in a book that has been inflated to its 380-page length with wide margins and 32 lines per page. This is a pity, and might have been avoided by editing--realize, in context, that today's publishers eschew editing and expect the writer not only to be his or her own scrupulous editor and fact-checker but also the typesetter. In the case of Fforde this also gives rise, in the American edition, to confusion about words spelled differently in the UK and US, with 'theatre/theater' as a typical annoying example--make up your bloody mind, woncha? Some of the work obviously needed to be read aloud by the author (see my review of Steve Martin's SHOP GIRL for relevance) to reduce the clunker quotient.<br />Readers expecting divine inspiration or deep insight will be disappointed. Anyone who expects significant exploration of emotion will come away empty handed. Those who are easily amused or who think that a British author is all knowing about literature and has a corner on satirical wit will keep turning the pages, to dig up yet another analogy or manipulated historical name. Dig, dig, dig, but it never quite gells. The infuriating part about this process is that the promise is there in adbunsance but is never truly delivered. Does this, one cannot help wondering, reflect the experience and intellectual bandwidth of the Viking approval staff (Viking published the book in the US) or do both Penguin and Viking despise their readerships and settle for a lowest-common-denominator contempt for the people they expect to buy their books?<br />In all, this is a book closely akin to a bag of potato chips. One can't eat just one chip or read just one page, as we all know, but the over-all effect is just slightly 'lite' and hollow. In that sense it clearly matches much current popular entertainment (music, film or 'literature') but will probably sell well to readers who do not ask too much of their authors.ver quite gells. The infuriating part about this process is that the promise is there in adbunsance but is never truly delivered. Does this, one cannot help wondering, reflect the experience and intellectual bandwidth of the Viking approval staff (Viking published the book in the US) or do both Penguin and Viking despise their readerships and settle for a lowest-common-denominator contempt for the people they expect to buy their books?<BR>In all, this is a book closely akin to a bag of potato chips. One can't eat just one chip or read just one page, as we all know, but the over-all effect is just slightly 'lite' and hollow. In that sense it clearly matches much current popular entertainment (music, film or 'literature') but will probably sell well to readers who do not ask too much of their authors.	2003-04-27
US	53025104	R24I7Y0L2A3LA1	999741165X	858224167	Yukiko	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Magical, mysterious, marvelous	Intelligent readers who thrive on curiosity and yearn to learn more about this naughty, nutty world turn to books that inform, amuse, amaze and last in the mind and heart. We return to those memorable books again and again. YUKIKO is just such a book, and much more. This novel captures the essence of a wonderful writer who deserved much more from his publishers and readers.<br />YUKIKO describes the attempt by the U.S. Navy, towards the end of WWII in 1945, to land from a submarine a saboteur party that will destroy the Japanese heavy-water plant on the northern Japanese island of Hokkaido, home of the Ainu. The principal protagonists are the submarine skipper (Gus), his navigator (Angelo), a trained demolitions expert (Havenmeyer), and Sensei (the word is the Japanese for teacher but actually means much more). Yukiko (Little Snow Flower) is a person and a representation of a person who captivates Gus. Havenmeyer is today's modern CIA operative, trained and determined, focused to a narrow slit of activity and contemptuous of anything else.<br />Beyond his skills as a writer with exquisite taste and meticulous handling of the language, MacDonald Harris (who taught English Literature at U.C. Irvine) was an original who never wrote a genre novel in his 25-year/17-novel career. In every book he researched his material with care and created around it the essence of time and place, plot and character. YUKIKO is among his best, providing the reader with brilliant historical insights into WWII, into the history of the Ainu (who were treated by the 'mainland' Japanese much as the Native Americans were treated by the immigrants into North America), into the history of the atomic bomb and into the mysteries of love and connection between men and women who want more than mere physical coupling but long for emotional, intellectual and spiritual completion through the discovery of that wonderful 'other.'<br />In an era of so-called 'civilization' at the start of the 21st century, in which profound emotion has been debased and trivial sexual 'intimacy' placed on the pedestal of public approbation, YUKIKO dares to delve into the mind and heart in profoundly moving ways probably alien to much of the modern world (ironic that the book, a mere 35 years old, seems to have come from another century, and will likely apply a century from now).<br />Consider this passage, in which Sensei is talking about sexual intimacy:<br />\\"The important thing about doing this thing, he goes on to explain, is that each person should do it with the right person, but if you do not find the right person it is better not to do it at all until you find the right person. The way you will know when you have found the right person is that doing the thing then will be good. Not just that you will enjoy doing it, but you will feel that doing it is good.\\"<br />Havenmeyer's retort: \\"Horsefeathers.\\"<br />This is a beautiful and unforgettable book by a writing master whose skills will live for ever and whose books such as THE BALLOONIST, HEMINGWAY'S SUITCASE and HERMA are immensely worth reading. It provides a body of history for analysis and consideration, based on information vital to thoughtful men and women, and it delves profoundly into human feelings in powerful and important ways.in which profound emotion has been debased and trivial sexual 'intimacy' placed on the pedestal of public approbation, YUKIKO dares to delve into the mind and heart in profoundly moving ways probably alien to much of the modern world (ironic that the book, a mere 35 years old, seems to have come from another century, and will likely apply a century from now).<br />Consider this passage, in which Sensei is talking about sexual intimacy:<br />\\"The important thing about doing this thing, he goes on to explain, is that each person should do it with the right person, but if you do not find the right person it is better not to do it at all until you find the right person. The way you will know when you have found the right person is that doing the thing then will be good. Not just that you will enjoy doing it, but you will feel that doing it is good.\\"<br />Havenmeyer's retort: \\"Horsefeathers.\\"<br />This is a beautiful and unforgettable book by a writing master whose skills will live for ever and whose books such as THE BALLOONIST, HEMINGWAY'S SUITCASE and HERMA are immensely worth reading. It provides a body of history for analysis and consideration, based on information vital to thoughtful men and women, and it delves profoundly into human feelings in powerful and important ways.	2003-04-22
US	53025104	RUEAW9TT2LJ4W	1588341038	787776597	When Thunder Rolled: An F-105 Pilot over North Vietnam	Books	4	34	34	N	N	Corrosive candor	Few who have not done it can imagine what it is like to fight, kill and risk death, most particularly in military aviation, a small, close-knit and relatively closed community. But Ed Rasimus takes us there, all the way inside, and reveals his weaknesses and strengths with corrosive candor. Admission of fear is supposedly unmanly, but he has the courage to admit it and becomes more in our eyes, not less, by seeing it through anyway. How many others were there with similar emotions? How many, or how few, came back to talk about it with such humility?<br />\\"Raz\\" asked his wife to read this book for comprehension and made sure that she 'got it' into the core. That alone should stand as a mark of humility and excellence, for both of them. The naked facts are that F-105 drivers in 'Nam faced horrific odds, and fought a war--without flinching--hampered by political decisions and ignorance. The content takes you by the throat, including revealing passages about the rest of the gang, from brave to, um, somewhat less than brave, and from charismatic to, um, a little more stupid that capable. If you doubt the horror, go to the Appendix and read the F-105 Combat Theater Losses, April-November 1966. Over 100 brilliant and brave pilots lost, just in that six-month period. Read it and weep.<br />War is hell. The war fought by the Thuds and recounted by Rasimus was one of the most difficult ever. North Vietnamese IADS (Integrated Air Defense Systems), provided by the Soviets, faced Air Force and Navy attacks conducted under some of the most restrictive and dangerous ROE (Rules of Engagement) strictures imaginable, imposed by armchair politicians and generals safely ensconced in Washington. If anything, Rasimus doesn't press these issues, which were in fact much more difficult and dangerous than he describes.<br />This book should be required reading, because it captures the era before PGMs (Precision Guided Munitions), when flying skill and courage made the difference between mission success and failure, and when pilots had no choice but to go down into the heart of darkness to do the job properly.ccess and failure, and when pilots had no choice but to go down into the heart of darkness to do the job properly.	2003-04-22
US	53025104	R1AGL9JQQYVP34	0345436172	785008012	Hunting Warbirds: The Obsessive Quest for the Lost Aircraft of World War II	Books	2	6	7	N	N	Disintegrated, formless	Piston-engined aircraft of WWII are among the most fascinating and important artifacts of the 20th century, part of some of the most intriguing history of war and humanity that affected millions directly and indirectly. It is not surprising that they evoke passion and obsession.<br />This book attempts to describe the passion and obsession, but its disjointed, episodic and disintegrated form works against it and the technical errors are annoying. Reviewer Collins (see his review) correctly identifies the core problem: the author does not seem to have considered his audience(s). If he's writing for knowledgeable aviation enthusiasts, his lack of depth, poor research and many errors are a turnoff. If he's writing for non-flyers, he doesn't provide enough background information on the many wonderful flight museums and collectors around the world to frame the subject adequately (his superficiality about, say, Kermit Weeks, is a huge disappointment, as just one glaring example). If he's writing for readers who enjoy literature, his lack of polish is a disappointment--much of the book reads like a first draft. It seems that Hoffman's approach to flying is skewed to the gee-whiz and away from the magnificent, mysterious realities of aviation.<br />Offering credentials like AIR &amp; SPACE and SMITHSONIAN doesn't induce confidence in the reader. Both these publications often use materials from staff or stringers that are deeply disappointing and too often read like the work of somewhat talented amateurs, matched by editorial positions that seem to be issued--without justification--ex cathedra. If Hoffman had written for AVIATION WEEK or FLIGHT JOURNAL one could be sure of its quality.<br />If some genuinely competent pilot-writer could approach this subject--someone like, say, Walter Boyne or Richard Bach--it would result in an important historical document with breadth, depth and authenticity. Such a work is urgently needed. Sadly, HUNTING WARBIRDSA is not that book.	2003-04-19
US	53025104	R21FO1INLB047D	1874557837	235298664	Motocourse: 50 Years of Moto Grand Prix : The Official History of the Fim Road Racing World Championship Grand Prix (Hazleton History)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	For serious enthusiasts	Anyone with serious interest in motocycle racing needs a reference work of impeccable quality and accuracy, and this is it. There is no point in going on at length about the excellence of this magnificent book, because it delivers satisfaction at every level, from the quality of its contributors (Dennis Noyes, Michael Scott, et al), the brilliance of its photography (Malcolm Bryan, Gold &amp; Goose, etc.) and the completeness of its historical record, not only in describing the technical trajectory of race-bike development and rider accomplishment in all relevant classes, including sidercar, but in the vital statistics that record the results. It's all here, rendered at the highest levels of journalism and publishing.<br />Hazelton's annual Motocourse journals on motoGP racing are terrific, but somewhat costly, but this wrapup of the entire post-WWII record of GP motorcycle racing does it all. No enthusiast should be without it.	2003-04-19
US	53025104	R2JQK9EBU3IWQM	1874557780	972130233	Autocourse: 50 Years of World Championship Grand Prix Motor Racing (Hazleton History)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Near perfection	Grand Prix motor racing, despite a long parade of contenders to the pinnacle of motor sport, remains the ultimate distillation of technology and driver courage/skill. The 50 years since WWII, thoughtfully framed by a \\"Before the War\\" chapter for historical perspective, are recorded superbly in this magnificent book. No significant aspects of the cars and drivers of this eventful half century have been neglected. Sidebars constantly divert and inform. Even the advertising is captivating.<br />The reader comes away in awe, sated by the integrity of the text under Alan Henry's meticulous editing and the wonderful photographs of Bernard and Paul-Henri Cahier.<br />Younger enthusiasts who read this book, who have been watching the boring, little-passing parades of advertising-festooned F1 slot cars of recent years, will acquire essential perspective from this great book and will note--perhaps wistfully--the transition from a high-risk driver's sport to a technology-money game in which the driver has become increasingly subordinated to the machinery and lawyers manipulate the rules. They may also note, by studying the evolution of Grand Prix machinery, the transition (not only in GP but in prototype sports cars) from vehicles that could be driven on road courses to caricatures that can only be driven on billiard-table-smooth tracks, whose characteristics (mile-wide slicks, ground effects, minimal ground clearance, bizarre aerodynamics aids, engine lifetimes measures in minutes or hours of running) have virtually nothing to do with any other kind of road vehicle. The great Stirling Moss, one of the finest drivers who ever raced, railed against this loss of relevance to 'real' cars when interviewed by me on the microphone at Sears Point (where he was Grand Marshall of a historics event). Beyond nostalgia, who is to say that he is not right in decrying this disconnect between racing cars and real cars? Don't suggest NASCAR, fake into the bones, as representative of any remotely real road vehicle.<br />Alan Henry sensibly avoids much of the recent controversy over rules and money, which have effected so many not-so-subtle changes in what used to be a sport and not a business, although he does gum the issues of the tobacco wars and the rise of lovable Bernie Ecclestone to the role of F1 dictator. The book was published in 2000 and thus could not have anticipated the struggle of F1 in the new Millennium, blandly asserting its posture as \\"firm and secure.\\" Well, maybe.<br />In the end, nothing that the recent philistines can do diminishes the ultimate greatness of this world motorsports arena or the care with which this book and brilliant historical record has been assembled.real road vehicle. <BR>Alan Henry sensibly avoids much of the recent controversy over rules and money, which have effected so many not-so-subtle changes in what used to be a sport and not a business, although he does gum the issues of the tobacco wars and the rise of lovable Bernie Ecclestone to the role of F1 dictator. The book was published in 2000 and thus could not have anticipated the struggle of F1 in the new Millennium, blandly asserting its posture as \\"firm and secure.\\" Well, maybe.<BR>In the end, nothing that the recent philistines can do diminishes the ultimate greatness of this world motorsports arena or the care with which this book and brilliant historical record has been assembled.	2003-04-19
US	53025104	R256RF4JEYEDNH	0375911065	351273816	Rider in the Sky: How an American Cowboy Built England's First Airplane	Books	5	2	2	N	N	As important as The Wrights	Herding cattle up the Chisholm Trail from Texas to the Kansas railheads for shipment, young Samuel Cody became fascinated with the kites built by the chuck wagon's Chinese cook. The cook taught Cody kite building, starting the young cowhand on an odyssey that would take him to the Klondyke gold rush, then to the London stage with his KLONDYKE NUGGET, to full fellowship in the Royal Aeronatical Society and simultaneous birthing of the British aircraft industry.<br />The show's success, with roles for all his family, enabled Cody to indulge his kite habit on a grand scale, shown in the book's many fine photos. In 1901 they built the first practical man-carrying kite (woman-carrying, too--Lela shown in a photo aloft in formal hat and long dress, the first woman to fly in a heavier-than-air craft). The Royal Navy and then the Army bought Cody's kites, leading Cody to friendship with Colonel Capper, a British army officer ostensibly developing balloons for artillery observation but actually harboring visions of flight.<br />Cody and Capper collaborated in leading England into the age of flight. They buzzed Buckingham Palace and the War Office with their powered airship, then developed a hang-glider kite, finally \\"Army Airplane #1.\\" Capper, who knew the Wrights, risked his career in supporting Cody but Cody went on to repeated triumphs, winning the first British military aircraft trials in 1912. The very next year Cody died tragically in an aircraft accident. The British army buried him with full military honours after a procession attended by 50,000 mourners representing every British army regiment.<br />Pilots who write about flying often evoke magic. Hulls writes with the clarity and humour of St. Exupery, Gann, Bach and the handful of pilots whose love of flight becomes literature. The chapter \\"Flyers and Liars\\" captures the risk of early flight and the achievements of the Wrights and Cody, quoting the 1906 NEW YORK HERALD: \\"Despite extravagant claims, history would show that by 1908 only five humans had acquired significant time flying heavier-than-air machines. Two were dead--Otto Lilienthal and Percy Pilcher, a Scots engineer who had studied with him, died in flying accidents.\\" Cody and the Wrights were the only ones with more than brief seconds in heavier-than-air flight. In all the other claims, no one knew enough to ask the key question: \\"How did you learn to fly?\\"<br />Coupled with illustrator David Weitzman's illustrations of what it took to learn even to make a simple turn, Hulls depicts the Wrights' and Cody's bravery and brilliance as they risked death to master flight. Among Cody's inventions: the variable-pitch propeller, whose efficiency Cody tested by tethering his airplane to a tree at Farnborough (a flight-test locale that became, decades earlier, the British equivalent of Edwards AFB). When the tree died recently, the RAE honored Cody by recreating the tree in aluminium on its original site.<br />While directed at younger readers, \\"Rider\\" is a wonderful book for anyone of any age interested in great American characters such as Cody and the Wrights, a must for pilots or indeed anyone with a love of flight or who today flies safely in a modern airliner.at by 1908 only five humans had acquired significant time flying heavier-than-air machines. Two were dead--Otto Lilienthal and Percy Pilcher, a Scots engineer who had studied with him, died in flying accidents.\\" Cody and the Wrights were the only ones with more than brief seconds in heavier-than-air flight. In all the other claims, no one knew enough to ask the key question: \\"How did you learn to fly?\\"<BR>Coupled with illustrator David Weitzman's illustrations of what it took to learn even to make a simple turn, Hulls depicts the Wrights' and Cody's bravery and brilliance as they risked death to master flight. Among Cody's inventions: the variable-pitch propeller, whose efficiency Cody tested by tethering his airplane to a tree at Farnborough (a flight-test locale that became, decades earlier, the British equivalent of Edwards AFB). When the tree died recently, the RAE honored Cody by recreating the tree in aluminium on its original site.<BR>While directed at younger readers, \\"Rider\\" is a wonderful book for anyone of any age interested in great American characters such as Cody and the Wrights, a must for pilots or indeed anyone with a love of flight or who today flies safely in a modern airliner.	2003-04-19
US	53025104	RJS6QTLKPA72R	0743455967	44310359	On Writing	Books	3	3	7	N	Y	For what it is, a good book	For what it is, this is a good book and well written. 'For what it is?' Yes. As far as it goes it's a reasonable primer on how King writes and a candid summary of his life, including horrific booze and drug problems. But writers wanting help with career choices are unhelped. Dozens of writing careers are open to those who have a facility with words. King deals with none except writing horror novels. It's what he knows, apparently all he knows.<br />King's attitude on editing needs help, too. Unless possessing unnatural chutzpah, a quality writer must edit and re-edit word by word, line by line, many times, before final draft. Poor editing is like failure to finish a project, just 'roughing in' parts that seem unimportant. Readers always know better in any subject requiring careful research and writing; readers lost through inattention to detail are rarely recovered after a book has been tossed across the room. This matters little to King since his genre is horror fantasy (few rules, few facts).<br />Another aspect of the book disappoints: King tells us too little of the biggest challenge facing today's writers: the almost impossible task of finding a capable, professional agent. He gives this area a mere 'lick and a promise' and the story of his composite writer, 'Frank,' rings hollow. Agents are the publishing indusry's gatekeepers; without one a writer is virtually condemned to wasting time at the word processor. It's simple economics. Publishers cannot afford to screen the huge volume of unsolicited ms coming in daily and consigned to the 'slush pile,' though they know much fine writing lies buried there. Today's writing markets, unless you are established or a celebrity, is 'pull' and not 'push.' If you're a fad phenom, you may be pulled. If not, you will more likely starve.<br />Many are called, few chosen. Luck is as important as skill. King carefully avoids this painful reality, identical in essentially every other career in the arts.	2003-04-01
US	53025104	R23RM1R3PHI3K9	0385285019	988703853	Illusions: The Adventures of a Reluctant Messiah	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Mystical Richard	The nature of personal reality has baffled Man since he first crawled from the ooze and started his journey to the stars. Attempts to explain with printed word and cold logic the limitless geography of the mind, heart and spirit have always fallen short, apparently because every revealed truth is interpreted as half truth and no blueprint has emerged that can bring all answers to the questioning mind.<br />Into this arena comes Richard Bach, with \\"Illusions.\\" When first published it was his first entirely new book since pop-philosopher \\"Jonathan\\" made him famous and rich (his \\"Gift of Wings,\\" published almost simultaneously, was an anthology of earlier work).<br />\\"Illusions\\" is an intriguing work that challenges Bach-watchers and reviewers who want to do justice to the man and his work. In a historical and classical cheap shot, Gail Sheehy in \\"Passanges' referred to her book as 'a Rorschach test for the reader,' inferring that if one didn't like or approve of it one's wits or taste were suspect. \\"Illusions,\\" on the other hand, makes its point effortlessly and will certainly be interpreted differently by every reader. It traces the adventures of one Don Shimoda, retired from his Messiah role because it broke his heart, who now flies a mystically perfect biplane in the Midwest, giving $3 rides alongside Bach (the 'I' of the story) in classic barnstorming mode. His tale is told tongue in cheek: we must forgive Bach and his publisher the rather precious device of placing the reproduced pages of a grubby notebook in front, complete with handwriting and smudged fingerprints from the engine-adjustment hand.<br />The core of the book's message seems to consist of quasi-mystical sayings from a guru's handbook, written in aphorisms and epithets to instruct at any convenient space-time moment (\\"the book always falls open at s saying appropriate to the problem you must solve,\\" declares Shimoda between parlor tricks in levitating wrenches or airplanes). These sayings read in a manner ranging from Confucian Profound to Fortune Cookie Cute. Shimoda eventually meets his end, which he undoubtedly brings on himself. His 'sin' is the sin of candor, since humans don't like their truths unvarnished. Bach flies off in his Fleet biplane, convinced that he must write about the reluctant Messiah.<br />Neat? Not really. Like everyone's typically unresolved life, the book really has no beginning or end. Bach admits that everything in the book may not be true, washing his hands of responsibility for the reader's interpretations and perpetuating his much vaunted \\"Jonathan\\" enigma. No book, especially not a slim, 144-page one, can conceivably package salvation.<br />Where does this leave us? Everywhere . . . and nowhere. Instant salvation from a charismatic figure is rather like heavily amplified rock music or the uniquitous Chinese food--tremendous impact at the time, but one soon returns hungry for real sustenance. With \\"Illusions\\" one ends up chasing one's own mental tail. Bach's final gesture is a shrug--he turns away quickly to hide the winner's smile at the edge of his mouth.<br />One senses that \\"Illusions\\" reflects forces at work in Bach's life after \\"Jonathan:\\" the implied need to explain himself to the millions who made his fictional seagull (and himself) into reluctant messiahs; the value of maintaining momentum for a worldwide audience built in for bestselling authors; and the realities of earning a living to support expensive airplane tastes (\\"everyone should have at least five,\\" says Bach).<br />In the end, though, it is futile to attempt an evaluation of Bach's needs, desires or motivations, or, indeed, anyone's. Each of us must live alone with our thoughts, ideas and perceptions of reality and must die alone. Why are some lives touches with magic and others doomed? How can we explain the shattering differences in destiny that confront Man in his journey from blind monocell to explorer (or, as Bach puts it, otter) of the Universe? The subject is worth a million books and plenty have been attempted. \\"Illusions\\" is Bach's contribution, with a slice of earthy existence thrown in as spear carrier. The intriguing thing about the book is that it works, on several different levels, without one quite knowing why.million books and plenty have been attempted. \\"Illusions\\" is Bach's contribution, with a slice of earthy existence thrown in as spear carrier. The intriguing thing about the book is that it works, on several different levels, without one quite knowing why.	2003-04-01
US	53025104	R3ENPNK4EUT00D	0786866586	574463302	Shopgirl: A Novella	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Wit, style and intelligence	Steve Martin is a man and a mind of many facets. It is entirely wrong to consider this his first writing, as some of the other reviewers have, since he has been writing in many media for many years and is highly skilled. Beyond his remarkable stand-up comedy, which must surely have been written in some form or other before he delivered the material, his NEW YORKER pieces are almost always fabulous, and his PICASSO AT THE LAPIN AGILE is a masterful piece of playwriting and a magnificent play.<br />Now that SHOP GIRL is on the way to becoming a film starring Martin himself (some sly wit suggested that Winona Ryder might be the shop girl), this book is well worth buying and considering in detail. The coming fascination will be to see the extent to which Martin's concept, execution and characters are retained in the film, or how much will be sacrificed to the God of Hollywood Format and Popularity. Who will, in the end, portray the shop girl, an understated role that will call for subtle power from the 'right' actress.<br />In SHOP GIRL Martin does not put a word wrong. If there is any criticism one might make, it would be that the prose is if anything a little spare, the mordant wit slightly too dry, the book a novella fleshed out with wide margins and few lines per page to produce some heft and justify the price tag. But these are mere nits being picked and should not deter the reader.<br />As it is, this is an entirely satisfying and delightful book. If the reader discovers--as I did--that it reads with remarkable fluidity and elegance, there is an explanation (given by Martin himself in a PBS interview) that should be helpful to many writers: he reads his text aloud to himself, and in the process can detect words sequences or juxtapositions that generate dissonance. There is no dissonance here.<br />Of course Martin has access to the media and to publication and screenplay adaptation based on his justifiably fine reputation. So, one asks, what will his next oeuvre be? If SHOP GIRL is any indication, it will be worth waiting for, indeed.SHOP GIRL is any indication, it will be worth waiting for, indeed.	2003-03-27
US	53025104	R1JAWCMRSH058J	0684807211	878755520	Twenty-First-Century Jet: The Making and Marketing of the Boeing 777	Books	2	13	19	N	N	There must be a pony around here	Visitors to Amazon who read customer reviews may have noted that low ratings turn off readers--'helpful' ratings go down with the number of stars. A pity, since intelligent readers realize that ratings derive from reader experience and knowledge.<br />So: this could have been a fascinating, important book about a subject that affects millions of airline passengers. But Sabbagh snatches defeat from the jaws of potential victory solely because of his writing style--or, rather, the lack. This must be among the most hackneyed, cliche-ridden pieces of sloppy journalism ever foisted on a major publisher. One wonders whether an editor ever even looked at it.<br />The very first line of the book, in the Acknowledgments, is a cliche: \\"It goes without saying that . . .\\" Arrgghhh! The very first sentence of the Introduction is equally clumsy: \\"There are two things I know about airplanes that surprised me when I first learned them.\\" How about: \\"Two things about airplanes surprised me.\\" Beyond the clumsy construction he uses, the author should discover several thousand things that surprised him. I've been a pilot since age 17 and learn something new every time I fly. His entire introductory premise is fallacious and trivial.<br />The over-all impression of the book is that the author is not a pilot and doesn't really care much about flight; that he knows not nearly enough about the design, manufacturing, materials and basic aerodynamics technologies he tries to convey to the reader; and that his failure to master the language and rid himself of the leaden, cliched prose is a burden the reader is forced to share if he or she keeps slogging on.<br />There must be a pony around here. There must be a wonderful book about a great and epochal airplane hiding inside this mess. The reader shouldn't have to start with a shovel to find that book.<br />The only stars I give (two) are for information I was forced to dig out, with reluctance and frequent outbursts of impatience.	2003-03-20
US	53025104	R3A9VF92RFS4TG	1862070091	94603257	Lights Out for the Territory: 9 Excursions in the Secret History of London	Books	3	5	10	N	N	Hits and misses	Melissa Rossi's review is exceptionally clear and focused, and defines LIGHTS OUT FOR THE TERRITORIES well.<br />In those qualities, her review is everything that LIGHTS OUT is not. What is so maddening about this book of Sinclair's is that it tantalizes with its brilliant language while darting off in all directions at once and confusing the reader. Sinclair is a fine, poetic writer with a remarkable grasp of the language and an incandescent fire in the way he pours on the imagery, but the principal difficulty is that there is no center. The book wanders about, much as the author did with his research, and alternates its focus from closeups of obscure trivia and minutiae to grand and glorious vistas. And the editor (we are assured that one was at work, though that editor's hand remains well hidden) permitted Sinclair to act out his every last professional, social and experiential tic, pleasure and annoyance to the last bleeding degree. He rants spectacularly.<br />The truly saddening part about such negative comments, reflected in the other Amazon reviews as with Rossi's, is that Sinclair is one of the most interesting voices around these days. Of course he has the right to express himself on his own terms, and Granta permits him, but readers have the equal right to say 'Enough.'<br />For a better and more disciplined read that nevertheless shows Sinclair's skills, LONDON ORBITAL is a far superior effort, a book that Sinclair admits was rehearsed in part through earlier works like LIGHTS OUT. Read my LONDON ORBITAL review and you will see why.	2003-02-14
US	53025104	RY7CIFW2295PQ	0393307050	680723399	Master and Commander	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	A great career launched	Now that the film of MASTER AND COMMANDER is about to be released, starring Russell Crowe, many new readers will be attracted to this, the first of the Aubrey-Maturin series<br />that launched the 20-book series and consumed the last 30+ years of the author's life. This series established O'Brian as one of the outstanding writers of the 20th century.<br />Modern readers must attempt a deliberate intellectual change of pace and perspective to acquire empathy with this book and its successors. O'Brian captures with exceptional ability the language, style and pacing of almost two centuries ago, yet such is his skill that within a short time the reader is carried away by his mastery of the subject, clearly based on immersion in the historical record, coupled in O'Brian's case to extraordinary skills of observation and literary execution.<br />O'Brian works in ways that are significantly different from, even alien to, many modern writers. He takes the time to establish time, place, character and plot, capturing at the same time a master's sense of perspective that is remarkably broad and highly informative in every area he touches, from music to the technologies of sailing and warfare in the era.<br />Reading M&amp;C will almost certainly launch the new reader on a long and enjoyable journey through the succeeding books of the series, into a period that profoundly affects the world today. It will be time well spent, and will enrich the reader in ways that extend from natural philosophy to world affairs, capturing a time in history when individual character and courage counted.<br />For a further examination of O'Brian's skills, may I respectfully refer the reader of this review to my review of his novel TESTIMONIES, re-issued by Norton in 1993.	2003-02-14
US	53025104	R2BCYVZ0YQOEET	0609607383	792302611	Hobo: A Young Man's Thoughts on Trains and Tramping in America	Books	1	2	7	N	N	No style, no voice	Reviews are typically written after reading an entire book, though some reviews--e.g. ones that are dismissive--are written after reading only the beginning (&quot;I put this book down and could not pick it up&quot;--Dorothy Parker).<br />An excerpt from Hobo was published in the San Francisco CHRONICLE magazine on 9 February 2003, touted as great work.<br />It would, one might think, have to be great work to be used in a major newspaper. But the material was so poorly written, so prolix, so lacking in a consistent voice (sometimes the voice of a reasonably educated person, often lapsing into 'hobosopeak') that it was profoundly dissatisfying.<br />Cotton must be some kind of magician or alchemist to have persuaded any publisher to support this sort of incompetent drivel. If one wants to read tales from the dark side, including the hobo life, check out William Vollmann's &quot;The Royal Family&quot; (see my review) to find a writer who communicates clearly in a consistent voice and engenders belief and empathy in the reader.<br />Vollmann writes about hobos with a clear eye.<br />Cotton can't haul the freight, based on reading the excerpt, and I am glad to have escaped without having to waste time and money on his complete book.	2003-02-09
US	53025104	R3FQHN3ARB2W4A	1862075476	86541940	London Orbital: A Walk Around the M25	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Carmageddon?	LONDON ORBITAL is more than just a book. It's a world model. Circumferential roads permit regional traffic flow around cities while reducing inner clog, a worldwide effort beyond London's M25--other cities, other orbitals: Paris' Peripherique, Washington's Beltway. Many others exist.<br />Iain Sinclair circumambulated London's M25 over months, with friends, in seven distinct bites. The M25 is a 125-mile creation, reputedly the world's busiest highway, traveled over the years by millions. It transforms not just the immense geography and culture of Greater London, as complex and diverse as Los Angeles or Calcutta of equivalent populations, but the inner and outer landscapes of residents and visitors, wherever they live and however they travel.<br />Sinclair's world view engages all six senses, back through the history of England and Europe, across the sepctrum of human experience: past and present, art and architecture, law and literature, horticulture and horror movies, geology and geography, politics and poverty, road and rail, medicine and military technology, even the psychopathology of asylum dwellers/victims and their external brethren: obsessive-compulsive walkers . . . and some writers. Name it, he does it. Well.<br />He works in ways that push the reader from rapture to rage, his global asides reaching all the way to California and beyond. He starts and finishes with Greenwich's Millennium Monstrosity, the Dome, which he detests (\\"Prejudices Declared\\"), showing how roads rearrange world geographies and cultures, putting people into a psychogeographical (his word) tumbe-dryer set on HOT but with no 'off' switch. As long as motor vehicles move, he implies, the effects will endure. Carmageddon?<br />Sinclair employs a diverse, sometimes mind-numbingly hyperbolic range of verbal acrobatics, inventions, riffs, jump cuts, phrases and words standing alone, summoning up the intellectual spirits and curiosities in ways that make him one of today's most readable but occasionally infuriating writers. If jazz is the metaphor, think Sonny Rollins or Charlie Parker with new and improved chemical influences. If cooking, it's bouillabaisse notched to new novelty, minestrone reinvented by a master chef toying with our taste buds. The flavors keep coming, onrushing, unstoppable. He's an intellectual shock-jock, messing with our minds and emotions. Breathless. Amazing. Often fun.<br />Sinclair's overwriting is exuberant, shameless, quite unlike the self-conscious, preening equivalent of Tom Wolfe, his nearest match this side of the Atlantic, or maybe Christopher Hitchens, who tries to finagle both sides of the pond. Sinclair longs to inform, indulge his curiosity, obsess with back-story research, earn our attention; Wolfe and Hitchens only want to impress, flaunt their superiority, plumb the shallows of their personal conceits, provoke our adulation. Guess who wins? Right!<br />This is a Big Read, the writing sustained from start to finish, all 457 pages. On balance its dense information content and lyrical prose make the journey worthwhile. Sinclair admits, in the credits, that some of the book appeared earlier in the London Review of Books, The London Magazine and The River; parts were also, as he puts it, 'rehearsed' in a sequence of books going back to 1999.<br />Whatever Sinclair is doing (the San Francisco CHRONICLE has called him \\"a prose stylist almost without peer\\"), he pushes the limit of modern word usage. The reader, beguiled by the lyricism, is drawn into his labyrinth, his orbit, a never-ending trip like the circular M25 itself. Leave a trail of breadcrumbs or you might not escape.<br />No Sinclair metaphors were used in writing this review. Granta's strictures prohibit it.casionally infuriating writers. If jazz is the metaphor, think Sonny Rollins or Charlie Parker with new and improved chemical influences. If cooking, it's bouillabaisse notched to new novelty, minestrone reinvented by a master chef toying with our taste buds. The flavors keep coming, onrushing, unstoppable. He's an intellectual shock-jock, messing with our minds and emotions. Breathless. Amazing. Often fun.<br />Sinclair's overwriting is exuberant, shameless, quite unlike the self-conscious, preening equivalent of Tom Wolfe, his nearest match this side of the Atlantic, or maybe Christopher Hitchens, who tries to finagle both sides of the pond. Sinclair longs to inform, indulge his curiosity, obsess with back-story research, earn our attention; Wolfe and Hitchens only want to impress, flaunt their superiority, plumb the shallows of their personal conceits, provoke our adulation. Guess who wins? Right!<br />This is a Big Read, the writing sustained from start to finish, all 457 pages. On balance its dense information content and lyrical prose make the journey worthwhile. Sinclair admits, in the credits, that some of the book appeared earlier in the London Review of Books, The London Magazine and The River; parts were also, as he puts it, 'rehearsed' in a sequence of books going back to 1999.<br />Whatever Sinclair is doing (the San Francisco CHRONICLE has called him \\"a prose stylist almost without peer\\"), he pushes the limit of modern word usage. The reader, beguiled by the lyricism, is drawn into his labyrinth, his orbit, a never-ending trip like the circular M25 itself. Leave a trail of breadcrumbs or you might not escape.<br />No Sinclair metaphors were used in writing this review. Granta's strictures prohibit it.	2002-11-19
US	53025104	R9X2F6IF2IYRU	0449910032	580783150	The Amateurs: The Story of Four Young Men and Their Quest for an Olympic Gold Medal	Books	5	52	52	N	N	Rowing as peak experience	With the Summer Olympics coming up, this book should be read and savored for its extraordinary writing quality and insights.<br />As a college oarsman (single sculls, then coxswain, bow and stroke of an eight), as a persnickety reader since childhood and as a writer of 20+ books, I approached the work of non-rower Halberstam with skepticism, reluctance to be touched by him. Was I wrong!<br />Rowing is one of the most unusual and difficult sports, and it seems remote to outsider, almost mechanized. Insiders know the real world under that surface: the loneliness of training, the necessity for precise skills and relentless focus, the gut-wrenching pre-race [jitters] and fear that vanishes at each start, the sense of being asked to perform brutal acts on one's own body, the appalling effort (especially for stroke) of trying to stage an attack or recover from being in arrears, the ectasy and elation of winning, the soul-searing agony of losing with its message of inadequacy, of being bested by a superior human or group of humans, the need to get back and try harder, to push the body further and further into pain.<br />Halberstam captured it all, and went deeper, into the minds and hearts of some of the greatest oars the U.S. has produced, to bring back a masterpiece of reporting. He managed to show the idiosyncratic nature of dedicated single-scull oarsmen, and the way these loners look at their lives and chosen sport.<br />As a rower, I was consumed by this book. As a critical reader, I was entirely satisfied. As a writer, I was envious of Halberstam's skills. My only regret is that rowing is not perceived as the great participant and spectator sport that it is, and that too few of us have the chance to enjoy it in either sense.	2002-03-08
US	53025104	R3JW6K6QBP6HSK	0393313166	260904218	Testimonies: A Novel	Books	5	39	40	N	Y	O'Brian's first novel is simply brilliant	Patrick O'Brian is more than a writer. He's a publishing phenomenon via his superb Aubrey-Maturin series.<br />But TESTIMONIES was his first novel, originally published in 1952. It tells of an English professor of Welsh origins, Joseph Pugh, who abandons teaching at Oxford and moves to a cottage in Wales. There he explores the primal mountain back country and tries to understand the farming culture of his ancestral land. A lonely, middle-aged bachelor, Pugh can hardly keep house, even to basics--cooking, cleaning, maintaining his clothes. He has never known intimacy, let alone close friendship, but he falls fatally in love with the wife of his sheep-farmer neighbor Emyr Vaughan, a violent man . . . He pines for months, keeping his love sickness to himself, but when he becomes gravely ill he is taken into the Vaughan house, where he and Bronwen discover each others' feelings, with tender reserve. The denouement is poignant, inevitable, yet O'Brian handles this difficult material deftly, without over-writing. For a beginning writer in his 20s this is masterful work at the pinnacle of writing.<br />An acute recorder of time and place, human behavior and motivation, action and reaction, O'Brian uses words persuasively, passionately, a craftsman to the core. He captures country, culture and character with Hardy's lyrical affection, idiosyncratic ethnicity, thoughtfully observed. His meticulous work is reminiscent of the great American writers Faulkner, Steinbeck and Capote, or O'Brian's fellow Brits John Fowles and William Golding.<br />Back in 1952 O'Brian anticipated with TESTIMONIES the struggle for relationships, understanding and love in an era--the last half of the 20th century--in which men and women judge and choose first from ethnic or cultural biases or appearances or political/social correctness and only later, maybe, start to understand each other and become acquainted. Or is xenophobia genetic, eternal?<br />Fast forward to Norton's republishing of TESTIMONIES in 1983. We see that beyond Aubrey-Maturin, O'Brian had the chops in 1952, though few knew and it took many years for many of us to find him. Doris Lessing in the '90s offered two books under assumed names to test the market for unknowns. Result: rejection (she couldn't even get the books read!). So how many others like O'Brian flower unknown, unappreciated? What is their 'testimony?'<br />Napoleon allegedly remarked that ability is useless without opportunity. O'Brian won his opportunity, finally, and made the most of it. We are the beneficiaries and TESTIMONIES is the proof--res ipsa loquitur.<br />This book is one of those few that is unforgettable and will remain in the mind and heart for the rest of the reader's life.83. We see that beyond Aubrey-Maturin, O'Brian had the chops in 1952, though few knew and it took many years for many of us to find him. Doris Lessing in the '90s offered two books under assumed names to test the market for unknowns. Result: rejection (she couldn't even get the books read!). So how many others like O'Brian flower unknown, unappreciated? What is their 'testimony?'<BR>Napoleon allegedly remarked that ability is useless without opportunity. O'Brian won his opportunity, finally, and made the most of it. We are the beneficiaries and TESTIMONIES is the proof--res ipsa loquitur.<BR>This book is one of those few that is unforgettable and will remain in the mind and heart for the rest of the reader's life.	2002-03-01
US	53025104	R3GBD5W0XLDF5J	0385484283	141857175	The Bear Went Over the Mountain	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Kotzwinkle Perplex	William Kotzwinkle is a great writer and deserves all the encomia that perceptive readers heap on him, and nowhere is this more evident than in BEAR, a brilliantly, manically, marvelously funny little book that in its own way cuts to the bone and sends up the publishing industry and the publicity-conscious celebrity world in cruelly telling ways.<br />Herein lies the Kotzwinkle Perplex. This terrific talent is still relatively unknown and unacknowledged in the publishing world, based on an analysis of his past books. BEAR is in part the sardonic answer. Today, as most thoughtful readers and writers know, celebrity and notoriety are the keys to the publishing kingdom, in an industry where editors are given sales quotas they must meet (or be fired) and where John Walker Lindh, Monica and Denise Rich are considered actual or potential 'great writers' merely because of their dubious 'achievements.'<br />Hal Jam and Kotzwinkle know these truths and trade on them playfully, but with an edge. That's why this is such a fine and surprising book and why more people should read it.	2002-02-28
US	53025104	READX6233UL	0345391373	210660787	An Incomplete Education, Revised Edition	Books	3	15	28	N	Y	Yes, maybe, but . . .	I would buy this book used, but not new.<br />It attempts, with partial success, to address the age-old problem of gain (amplification) vs. bandwidth (breadth) or specialization (learning more and more about less unless until one knows everything about nothing) vs. generalization (learning less and less about more and more until one knows nothing about everything). Since this problem can never be solved this book can never truly satisfy.<br />Certainly anyone with pretensions to general knowledge and literacy across many subjects will benefit from having this book available as a general reference piece. But the precious, self-conscious writing style is difficult to swallow, and editing out some of the resulting clutter would have made the entire book clearer and shorter and would have made room for other essential subjects.<br />Why am I being picky? Okay, look up 'sculptors' or 'Auguste Rodin' as examples of necessary general knowledge. Not there, not even hinted at. No Rodin. No sculptors at all!<br />Rodin reportedly died of pneumonia when he fell ill having asked the French authorities for living quarters heated as kindly as the space in which they kept his work, but was refused. Jones and Wilson have equal myopia in many areas. Maybe the lesson is that one should not attempt the impossible.<br />Maybe they'll include sculptors in the next (obviously they'll do it) revision. I hope so. I'd like them to research and verify my information about Rodin's death, among other things.	2002-02-28
US	53025104	RT40963VU1TT2	1557509255	220929403	Flying the Edge: The Making of Navy Test Pilots	Books	1	2	2	N	N	Pilots beware	There is no point in discussing the many problems with this book in any depth, because one would have to write a book about them. Suffice it to say that Wilson, clearly a non pilot, had all the benefits of access based on his position and made the least of them. Readers who are interested in finding out more about Naval Aviation and its inner truths should read Paul Gillcrist's terrific FEET WET, and his follow-on VULTURE'S ROW. 'Gator' is the real thing, a PAX graduate and immensely experienced in the cockpit, from piston-engined aircraft of the '50s to the F-14, and his books are everthing that EDGE isn't.<br />It's not a matter of 'close, but no cigar.' EDGE isn't even close. Sorry, Wilson, no sale (anyone want my copy, which is being used alternately as a coffee-mug coaster and door stop?).	2002-02-27
US	53025104	R281OPOFQYTU3M	0679411585	502570587	We Were Soldiers Once...And Young: Ia Drang The Battle That Changed the War in Vietnam	Books	5	4	9	N	Y	War is hell	With the movie coming out this week, it's time to get serious about SOLDIERS and discuss the book (although from all accounts the movie is faithful to a remarkable and, for Hollywood, surprising degree).<br />The silly old saw is that there are two kinds of people, and it goes downhill from there. In this case, there ARE two kinds of people: those who have fought to the death in battle, and the rest of the world. The soldiers in SOLDIERS fought one of the bloodiest, nastiest, ugliest and most brutal actions in the history of war, and this book describes their experiences with dreadful clarity.<br />The remarkable thing about this book, beyond the  vigor and quality of the writing, is its directness and lack of histrionics or unnecessary drama. This was a very bad place to be and there was, literally, no way out for most of those involved. If anyone has any illusions about the supposed dignity of war, SOLDIERS will dispel those illusions for ever.<br />I intend to see the movie and try to watch without turning away or pretending that such shocking violence and death does not occur and need not touch anyone not directly involved. The awful truth that comes across in the book is that the men who fought and died did so as surrogates of other humans on both sides and that there is no way for those others to avoid responsibility for these events.<br />Why not indulge in an exhaustive analysis of the book itself? There is no need, because 90+ other reviewers have done it well. I just wanted to get past the paper-and-ink facets to explain what this book does to the mind and heart and why every thinking person should read it and consider his or her attitude to war.<br />War is indeed hell. Are there any other alternatives? Will we ever learn? How low can humans get if they can condone what has been happening to our species for millennia and what otherwise thoughtful, sensible individuals can do to each other?<br />I have suggested, not entirely in jest, that Planet Earth is actually a penal colony to which we have been sent for past bad behavior in some part of the galaxy or other. This comes to an apotheosis in SOLDIERS.<br />Read it and weep for all of us, for all time.penal colony to which we have been sent for past bad behavior in some part of the galaxy or other. This comes to an apotheosis in SOLDIERS. <BR>Read it and weep for all of us, for all time.	2002-02-27
US	53025104	R2BS1LWQKNKN65	0865473218	992432037	Solo Faces: A Novel	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	Reading on the edge	James Salter is one of America's finest writers, and his skills here match his other books.<br />Climbing and the inmost soul are Salter's subjects here, and he captures both with unerring eye and literary skills. Because he never overwrites, the casual reader may not fully appreciate the challenges that the author meets so elegantly. God and the devil are in the details, and in climbing (as in flying, about which Salter has written so well) lack of attention to detail can kill in instants.  Readers who are also writers will slowly become aware of the fact that Salter never puts a word wrong and never uses more words than are necessary to communicate with the soul. Reading such work is reminiscent of looking at a seemingly simple but beautiful piece of sculpture or mechanical object in which every last detail has been honed to perfection and does its job correctly.<br />Why does this matter? Because if one reads the current wretched messes masquerading as quality fiction, for example in the NEW YORKER, one gets the sense of being asked to become involved in descriptions of navel lint, or more often of being asked to empathize with silly and unsympathetic people devoid of lives that involve risk.<br />So what has Salter done with SOLO FACES that transcends the current (02) wrtechedness? He puts us deep in the heart and soul, and makes us care about what these people are doing, and why. The climbing descriptions, despite being low key, will induce in the reader a sense of physical involvement that is (probably) measureable physiologically (heart rate, GSR, etc.). Anyone who wants to climb the Eiger is not sane, but deeply to be respected.	2002-02-27
US	53025104	R11V92NB8MU0S6	0810969122	312525662	The Art of the Motorcycle (Guggenheim Museum Publications)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Essential reading for enthusiasts	Museums, exhibits and the books devolving from them only hint at the mysteries they purport to show but rarely reveal. This is particularly true of exhibits of things that move, whether airplanes, cars and motorcycles on one hand, or people on the other. Once mummified via restoration and encapsulated in historical review, these lively subjects lose their kinesthetic value and become dessicated.<br />Within the limitations of those realities, here is a book that is endlessly fascinating and pleasing, replete with photos that while technically excellent are for the most part static and thus devoid of context. The essays, although pleasant, lack edge and passion, thus failing to evoke the adrenal glands (which operate at high levels when pushing a motorcycle to the limit).<br />The descriptions of the machines, from knowledgeable masters such as Kevin Cameron, capture the essence of what the designer tried to do and how well he (no known female motorcycle designers, but correct me if I'm wrong) hit his target.<br />This is a book to which one can return again and again with pleasure. For a rider who has survived (I confess, in context, that I'm the survivor of 1.6m miles on two wheels) and ridden any of these wondrous devices, the book is a channel back in time that the book conveys magnificently.<br />It is to the credit of the Guggenheim and the sponsors, such as BMW, that the show/book could be produced and could demonstrate to a wide public the fascination of motorcycles and riding them.<br />Even non-riders, who have seen motorcycles on the road or who may know motorcycle enthusiasts, will start to comprehend the addictive fascination that possesses riders who can't stop. If you are persuaded to ride, please wear the best gear you can afford, get training and realize that roadcraft only comes from mileage undertaken humbly but decisively, the kinesthetic realities no book, however good, can convey.	2002-02-26
US	53025104	R1ONKZS6OVQ98N	0847823431	279877266	La Maison du Chocolat: Transcendent Desserts by the Legendary Chocolatier	Books	4	6	10	N	Y	Close to perfection	Chocolate is one of the four basic food groups. The others are, some say, wine and garlic, with furious debate over the fourth.<br />Linxe has, over a lifetime, created a veritable ode to chocolate in many forms, and his five stores in Paris are well worth the visit (you will come out much poorer except in chocolate). His New York jewel, which has moved slightly downtown from the East 70s to Madison Avenue, is worth seeing and smelling close up--any chocolate lover will understand.<br />The soul of Linxe's art with chocolate is captured in this magnificent book. The photographs alone are sinfully sensual.<br />A baker friend says that the recipes are within her grasp if she only had the time, and the money, and could get all the ingredients conveniently. She and I both agreed, and this was pointed out by another reviewer, that the history and diversity of chocolate is a significant omission, but wanting more data on chocolate is perhaps greedy on our part and we should not sit around lazily on a chocolate high, with some decent pinot noir on the side, but get out and do our own research.<br />For what it is, and not for what it omits, this is a great book. It makes one want to fly to Paris right this second, and there one can find all the other vital food groups as well.	2002-02-26
US	53025104	R1IWWKQ7IHCK96	1575441055	174796826	Thierry Mugler: Fashion Fetish Fantasy	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Wow!	Beyond the bland, banal and often sleazy worlds of fashion and fetish there exists a hidden and beautiful world exemplified by Mugler's work and friends (whom he acknowledges with exquisite charm and tact on page 188). All these people 'get it' at a level of subtlety and taste that the lesser practitioners will never understand. They understand the power of bodily eroticism, the magic and mystery of masks and concealment, the attraction of helplessness (try to walk in those shoes and you will understand, too) coupled with the dangerous appeal of domination and submission.<br />FFF is to EXTREME as vintage wine is to mere plonk. Of course EXTREME had to be assembled as a Met show/book toying with cultural anthropology with the mainstream in mind, but although excellent (and so rated by me and others) EXTREME pales into insignificance by comparison with FFF. FFF combined extremes of other kinds: extreme eroticism, extreme physical transformations, extreme emotional danger. It is hugely to the credit of everyone involved, including models, photographers and the celebrities who comment with dazzling power, that it all comes off as beautiful and powerful, never beyond the bounds of taste. When you read those names, and consider what they have done in their own worlds, you will find yourself thinking (at least I did), that these are people whose persons and work you have admired, whom you would like to know in person, with whom you could have unusual and interesting times. They include Pedro Almodovar, David Bowie, John Epperson, Tippi Hedren, Ute Lemper, Julie Newmar, Jennifer Tilly (yes!), Bruce Vlanch and Raquel Welch, all relentless pushers of the cultural envelope.<br />Tension is the great sexual aphrodisiac and FFF is all about sexual tension expressed with body, face and hand adornment that is at the very limit of what can be done. My copy is not for sale, ever.	2002-02-26
US	53025104	RN4H0CCLRE3TA	0300091176	181195203	Extreme Beauty: The Body Transformed	Books	5	75	82	N	Y	Human preoccupation for Millennia	Sentient humans with brains as well as bodies have always been fascinated by the way we adorn ourselves and why. Once we can get past the cultural anthropology of fashion, and the fads that make it a billion-dollar world industry, we can dig down to discover the roots of historical and current adorned beauty, and EXTREME BEAUTY does this . . . beautifully.<br />It is pleasing--in an era in which physical beauty and adornment typified by fashion have been roundly rejected by most of the jeans-wearing public--to find a book that lets beauty out and helps us exercise our sense of mystery and wonder, based in no small part on human sexuality and attraction. Harold Koda (curator of the Costume Institute at New York's Met) has mounted a show and created a book with marvelous insights and passion, and the illustrations are wondrous--consider, as a case in point, Thiery Mugler's 'Chimere,' with its savage eroticism.<br />One could quibble with Koda's arbitrary division of the body into 'neck and shoulders,' 'chest,' 'waist,' 'hips' and 'feet,'<br />and his exclusion of the fascinating face/head/hair perplex, and the hands, with their magical touch and allure. But this book and its illustrations will become a benchmark by which human adornment is judged, and is a keeper of power and importance.	2002-02-22
US	53025104	R1HE5V9M20KGYM	0375703926	947999501	The Hunters: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Rarefied writing skills	Salter is among the finest writers in the language and this (a very early book of his) shows what happens when a writer takes a world he knows into the bones--in this case, flying jet fighters in Korea--and describes it with scrupulous prose.<br />It's hard to critique the book except to say that fighter pilots will want more of the inside, which might bore non flyers. That aside, Salter started with this book to prove what great writing can be and he has never stopped. We are all the fortunate recipients of his insights and skills.<br />Another great book of Salter's is SOLO FACES (read it!). You can hardly get enough of this spectacular weaver of words.	2002-02-22
US	53025104	RXBSWTSBOOQ0I	0140282025	132792490	The Age of Spiritual Machines: When Computers Exceed Human Intelligence	Books	4	8	10	N	Y	Fabulous but flawed	Kurzweil is a polymath inventor/writer who, among other achievements, created the best musical synthesizers. Some see his clever book SPIRITUAL MACHINES as a benchmark for computing's future, except that he seems to have overlooked three critical aspects: the 'S' curve in science and engineering, the necessarily sensitive interactions between many human faculties and the single most important effect: human nature.<br />The 'S' curve? Yes. It starts with rapid development that soon tapers off. Plot progress on the vertical (x) axis and time no the horizontal ('Y') and the result is a squashed 'S,' whence the name. At the top of the S technique becomes more and more refined and ever smaller incremental improvements cost disproportionate amounts. Technology may become uneconomic.<br />Part of the problem, which Kurzweil does not address, is the way we actually live and process in the real (not 'virtual') world. Actual human behavior, behaviorists explain, moves quite slowly, because we survived and therefore the old days were good. We are appalling resistant to change, as Machiavelli noted. Kurzweil's binary-digital-number-crunching model errs in another significant respect: the body's emotional responses. Consider only chemicals, which exist in such rarefied arenas at such long-shot improbabilities that no projected digital machine, however sophisticated, can hope to match in the forseeable future. As Lyall Watson explains in \\"Jacobson's Organ\\" (read it!), about an unusual 'extra sense' odor-detection capability in man and animals, the European common eel can detect a few molecules of alcohol in concentrations as low as 10 to the -18, which he equates to detecting a single shot of vodka in Lake Erie. Kurzweil's machines will have a problem handling these tasks across the full range of human capability, likely giving rise to schizophrenic robots as well as sane ones.<br />Still, this is a wonderful read and The Amazing Kurzweil has a mind and heart that deserve our continued attention and respect.d attention and respect.	2002-02-22
US	53025104	R3U9OD11TITQQL	0375406328	449261090	Lying Awake	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	Brilliantly crafted	Writing short is harder than writing long. and subjects beyond average readers' life experience challenge writers to create understanding that builds bridges of credibility and empathy.<br />Writing about the lives of cloistered nuns, Salzman has met these challenges with exceptional brevity, clarity and elegance. He develops his characters persuasively and compels the reader to care about the outcomes. Cloistered nuns may seem to share little with life in our modern world, yet they are intensely human under the habit, much like us. Salzman conveys this connection convincingly. Simple humanity and goodness shine through the nuns' attitudes. The intrinsic test of becoming and remaining a Carmelite nun underlies every paragraph.<br />Readers will not, unless blessed with a vocation, rush to the convent to become nuns. Salzman does not attempt an apologia pro vita sua on the part of Sister John and her religious life. Rather he helps us think and feel, open our hearts to wonder and awe, and permits us a rare chance--in a modern existence of relentless busy-ness--to examine another world whose validity and value he demonstrates beyond doubt. The paradox at the heart of this exquisite little book is even more fascinating because it leaves our tension and speculation unresolved. In this respect it is analagous to the problem of understanding and resolving the lives of others, even of our own.<br />AWAKE is not long but remains in the mind and heart long after the final chapter ends. Salzman has mastered his subject and his language. In an ocean of relentless trivia foisted on us today by a publishing industry (indeed, an entire media industry) seemingly interested only in financial reward, his precise and perceptive gifts to us are invaluable and profoundly memorable.	2002-02-10
US	53025104	R2S4VFCGUVEQEV	014100200X	751870359	The Royal Family: A Novel	Books	4	9	10	N	Y	Where are the editors when you need them?	Vollmann is an amazing writer with skills that place him at the forefront of contemporary letters. The Royal Family is a huge accomplishment. I read this book a year ago and am only now coming to terms with what it says and how well it works.<br />But beyond the courageous scope of the book, and the utter depravity of significant chunks of the content, I think Vollmann's editor was over indulgent and let the writer go on too long and too repetitively. Brevity is indeed the soul of wit but here is not the place to find it. Some of the sentences are Proustian in their complexity. Cutting would have made the work even more effective, but this seemingly did not happen.<br />Why only four stars? Partly the length (we have lives to lead and need time for those lives), partly some of the linguistic inconsistencies. At times Vollmann writes better than almost any living writer (and many dead ones with immense reputations). But when he falls from these stratospheric heights there is a sense of being let down, as if he just rambled out of control.<br />But this is an unforgettable book of immense power, telling us about places and lives we should not ignore and now, thanks to Vollmann, can never forget. I am in awe at his accomplishment.<br />Sadly, as other Amazon reviewers have pointed out, there is not enough space to do justice to the work in a short review.	2002-02-01
US	53025104	R37SPSGVJTDR0E	0601018060	259925969	Stranger to the Ground	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Bach's first and best book	Richard Bach's first book came to my attention when it was reviewed in the WALL STREET JOURNAL at first publication. I re-read it often. As a pilot with time in current fighters, I was stunned by the clarity and power of his depictions of flight. But one need not be a pilot to enjoy this work because it always remains 'grounded' (in the sense of structure and ideas, not literally).<br />STRANGER got me for a core reason not often discussed with respect to flying; the book meets this criterion resoundingly: it is totally honest. Why does this matter? Because flying, especially complex modern airplanes (the F-84F is not an easy airplane), is fundamentally an honest trade. Make a mistake or be unlucky and you may die suddenly.	2002-02-01
US	53025104	R3IK6HZOW0VZF0	0060182970	552239081	Coldheart Canyon: A Hollywood Ghost Story	Books	1	5	10	N	Y	Failing Coleridge's Test	Based on a long, glowing interview of Clive Barker in the San Francisco CHRONICLE, I wanted to love this book, the first by the author I would try to read. The I recalled the infamous '30s Dorothy Parker review: &quot;I put this book down and could not pick it up.&quot; I did persist to the end--my mistake.<br />Only a much longer review could capture the breadth and depth of Barker's inadequacies as a writer, glaringly evident in this dreadful book. Beyond the grammatical, syntactical, structural and associated technical problems, the characters are paper thin and unrealized, the 'plot' replete with inconsistencies, the descriptive material pedestrian and full of clangers (example: an earthquake he calls a 'trembler' is actually a temblor, but there are scores of others).<br />A glance at the excruciatingly self-referential acknowledgements should be warning enough. Barker, though British, has come over to the U.S. to prove with his writing the aphorism attribted to the great H.L. Mencken: &quot;You'll never go broke underestimating the taste of the American public.&quot; And he fails the basic test for writing credibility immortalized by Coleridge, the 'willing suspension of disbelief' a reader must perform to accept a piece of writing, especially fantasy such as Barker attempts. Little in the book meets this test. Stay away. Why would HarperCollins want to produce such a mediocre mess? How many much worthier writers won't be published because Barker gets the gig? Won't Amazon create a new review category: no stars?	2001-12-29
US	53025104	R2XV23EIEM5NHG	0689111797	955804738	Herma	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	A brilliant exposition of the transgender phenomenon	The late, great MacDonald Harris has tackled in this, his 'biggest' book, one of the great Jungian mysteries of the animus and anima, the longing for completion by men and women through meeting their soul mates, their 'other halves.' Herma is a budding opera singer, Fred Hite her agent. Integrate the two names and you discover the book's inner mystery: hermaphrodite. Herma is transformed into Fred (and back) in the Jungian mirror. Harris explores the worlds of opera (Herma's avocation) and flying (Fred's) at a level of insight and authenticity that is profoundly moving and instructive. The `two' yearn for each other, heartbreakingly, yet realize that they can never meet. Here we see an implicit examination of the modern transgender phenomenon, which the world in general is only slowly coming to understand and accept. Yet Harris' treatment of this difficult subject is so subtle and tender that no reader, of any age, could be offended.<br />Harris' revelations of turn-of-the-20th-century Orange County, south of Los Angeles (the author's origins), start the book and introduce us to the young Herma and her idyllic life. We see her learning to sing, first in church, then in opera, brilliantly and with a gift for vocal mimicry. The introduction of some of opera's historical greats, such as Enrico Caruso, is executed with whimsical charm. Herma sails through all this with elegance and grace, and in the process ends up with a dessert named after her that she conceives: Fraise Herma (the metaphor for Peach Melba and Chicken Tetrazzini is no coincidence and Harris executes this conceit with great skill). In the process of describing 1906 San Francisco and Caruso's historically correct presence there, Harris captures the earthquake in terms rarely matched in fiction or reportage. Herma, rendered homeless by the quake, meets the wealthy and fastidious Mr. Ming and is nothing less than . . . enchanting--Mr. Ming proposes marriage but we know that it can never be. When, later in Paris, she meets and attracts Marcel Proust, we acquire insights into the French author's environment and lifestyle that will captivate the reader.<br />Fred, on the other hand, is a rebellious young man not only with an eye for the ladies but with expensive and dangerous habits--financed by his `client's' artistic successes, for which he negotiates with &eacute;lan. He wins an airplane race over San Francisco Bay that includes tragedy and ends ignominiously for him. But his flight training enables him later to fly in France--including circling the then new Eiffel Tower--and join the Lafayette Escadrille, the American combat squadron that flew in WWI and achieved a great reputation there.<br />The denouement is tragic but powerful. This book is timeless in its appeal and Harris writes meticulously. (Note: I undertook the flying research for this book but except for this 'bias' it has my highest possible recommendation)<br />October 2015: Fast forward to the current republication of this wonderful book by Overlook (New York) and Galileo (Cambridge, England) in exquisite form, with some of the minor linguistic inconsistencies of the original corrected (in France 'rue' and 'avenue' do not bear initial capitalization, for example, and French diacritical marks, especially accents, are an endless trap). Harris is re-vindicated as one of America's great writers and stylists, who researched meticulously and executed brilliantly, long before we had all our nifty on-line tools. Once again, highly recommended. The only discordant note is the self-referential and superficial 'new' introduction by Michael Chabon, a former student of MacDonald Harris at U.C. Irvine. It adds little to our true understanding of the great Harris and seems merely an opportunity for Chabon to tell us what a great writer he  (Chabon) is., she meets and attracts Marcel Proust, we acquire insights into the French author's environment and lifestyle that will captivate the reader. Fred, on the other hand, is a rebellious young man not only with an eye for the ladies but with expensive and dangerous habits--financed by his `client's' artistic successes, for which he negotiates with lan. He wins an airplane race over San Francisco Bay that includes tragedy and ends ignominiously for him. But his flight training enables him later to fly in France--including circling the then new Eiffel Tower--and join the Lafayette Escadrille, the American combat squadron that flew in WWI and achieved a great reputation there. The denouement is tragic but powerful. This book is timeless in its appeal and Harris writes meticulously. (Note: I undertook the flying research for this book but except for this 'bias' it has my highest possible recommendation) October 2015: Fast forward to the current republication of this wonderful book by Overlook (New York) and Galileo (Cambridge, England) in exquisite form, with some of the minor linguistic inconsistencies of the original corrected (in France 'rue' and 'avenue' do not bear initial capitalization, for example, and French diacritical marks, especially accents, are an endless trap). Harris is re-vindicated as one of America's great writers and stylists, who researched meticulously and executed brilliantly, long before we had all our nifty on-line tools. Once again, highly recommended. The only discordant note is the self-referential and superficial 'new' introduction by Michael Chabon, a former student of MacDonald Harris at U.C. Irvine. It adds little to our true understanding of the great Harris and seems merely an opportunity for Chabon to tell us what a great writer he  (Chabon) is.	1999-06-28
US	53025104	R8M94PF6ZEZP8	0764305905	306475438	Spindrift: Stories from the Sea Services	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Sea stories from three brothers who served.	The Brothers Gillcrist have assembled a delightful anecdotal history of their experiences in more than 30 years of sea service, and bring sharp powers of observation to the task, along with a bedrock sensibility that  conveys reality to the reader: they say what they mean and mean what they  say. Anyone who has served or had a family member who served, will acquire  a sense of kinship with the writers and will come away with many insights  into the lives of military seafarers. (Disclaimer: I am biased in that I  helped Paul Gillcrist with one chapter on the Royal Navy).	1998-12-05
US	53025104	R2R83SRRIX8V3D	0887406645	484998834	Tomcat!: The Grumman F-14 Story	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A magnificent history of the Grumman F-14 &quot;Tomcat&quot;	When Grumman's Bob Kress designed the F-14 he created a legend. This book describes it from genesis to today, covering every significant development and deployment. The book is remarkable not only because of the  authoritative detail but because Gillcrist is so candid. He's sometimes  biased and doesn't mind admitting it--but he always back up a controversial  opinion with facts. This book is highly recommended for anyone interested  in air warfare and naval aviation. The pictures are terrific, though only  'blanket' credited when unofficial. But you'll see the great work of  'Heater' Heatley--nuff said!	1998-11-19
