US	53026788	R2WHCG7N6JEMGS	0679446907	808121196	Fame and Folly: Essays	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Great writing and thinking	At her best I think Cynthia Ozick is second only to James Wood as a writer of literary appreciations. In this volume, for example, she has written a lengthy defence of T. S. Eliot that does not shun his anti-semitism and his rough treatment of his first wife, and a long piece about Henry James's proto-Modernist novel, 'The Awkward Age', that are as good as any essays written about these two writers. <br />Ozick is also a skilled and affecting memoirist, one who wins this reader's affection by tackling the great subject of the self without ever being noxiously self-centered. 'Alfred Chester's Wig', an essay that provides a very moving portrait of a tortured soul and a perceptive look at the fifties literary and social scene, is as good a 'literary essay' (as opposed to just an essay about literature) as you are likely to read.<br />There are, however, some occasions where Ozick's high-style takes control and she appears to be writing simply on auto-pilot. 'Of Christian Heroism', for example, makes the point that people are fundamentally and in the main self-interested rather than good or bad and that this makes those who harboured and assisted the Jews through the persecutions of the thirties and forties exemplars rather than oridnary specimens of goodness. I think that this position is entirely defensible, even commonsensical. Yet she comes to this conclusion so messily and with so many empty rhetorical flourishes and redundancies, showing off rather than working through the counter-arguments, that she destabilizes her whole argument. <br />That caveat aside, however, this collection should be required reading for anyone interested in the fate of literary culture. Cynthia Ozick is one of the few modern writers who is adding to our store of literary wealth and safeguarding what has come down to us.	2003-06-10
US	53026788	R2TCQI4GZTMMBL	0679764895	756467539	Mr. Wilson's Cabinet of Wonder: Pronged Ants, Horned Humans, Mice on Toast, and Other Marvels of Jurassic Technology	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A thrilling intellectual odyssey	Weschler's animated look at the 'asthetically just' museum curator David Wilson and an examination, in the book's second part, of the history of 'Wonder-cabinets' from the sixteenth century to the present day is a fascinating mix of profile, historical inquiry, and detective story. David Wilson and his museum are almost too good to be true and should encourage anyone who can get to Los Angeles to visit the MJT. The prose throughout is superb: Weschler is a master at making people talk on the page, and his own thoughts are conveyed in a prose that mimics colloquial speech -- a murderously difficult thing to do. I have read all of Weschler's books, and this, I think, is his very best.	2003-01-28
US	53026788	R1DODPV4Y7V4L3	0375415130	462321908	Something to Declare: Essays on France	Books	4	19	19	N	N	A wonderful collection of pieces	Barnes's collection falls into two halves. The first is a collection of pieces that might be said to have a French theme: a review and appreciation of Edith Wharton's account of a car journey taken through France, a piece of French songsters of the sixties, a very entertaining look at the perils of the Tour de France. The second half is nearly all given over to Flaubert, Barnes's obsession. The essays on the great writer are fascinating, especially those centered around his correspondence. Barnes's love for the writer and the man is contagious. I had no great enthusiasm for Flaubert, despite having loved Barnes's 'Flaubert's Parrot', but since reading this book I have read 'Madame Bovary' with a great deal of pleasure and have begun looking into the correspondence. All the essays are scrupulously and stylishly written and are worth reading for the prose alone.	2003-01-24
US	53026788	RE4ZMYI1DRA2E	1582341605	822376146	The Diaries of Kenneth Tynan	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Brilliant but frustrating.	Kenneth Tynan was a marvellous journalist. There is no-one writing for magazines or newspapers today (perhaps with the exception of Christopher Hitchens) who can so readily draw upon an apparently limitless well of wit, and do so in perfect sentences. All of his books are worth reading if you can find them second-hand: his early collection of drama criticism, 'Curtains', and the collection 'Profiles', are probably the places to start. For devotees of Tynan, who bemoan the paucity of his output in the last fifteen years of his life, the Diaries, splendidly introduced by John Lahr, can prove very frustrating. It seems everything conspired against Ken sitting in front of the typewriter and working his magic. His health was abysmal -- emphysema worsened by a heavy cigarette habit; he was preoccupied by a strange strain of socialism, which allows him to finish one entry with a call for action on the part of the workers and begin the next with an account of a tour through France, eating at three-star Michelin restaurants all the way; and he was rather excessively waylaid by a spanking-based dalliance with a mistress. That he managed to eke out portions of 'The Sound of Two Hands Clapping' and the profiles collected in 'Show People' is, on the evidence of the diaries, something of a miracle.<br />The diaries themselves make for very entertaining reading. There is plenty of celebrity gossip and, as befits writing not meant for public consumption, a good deal of invective. Sir Peter Hall, referred to throughout as 'P. Hall' is dealt with particularly harshly, and the relationship between Laurence Olivier and Tynan is fraught with ambiguity. There is also Tynan's almost comical political naivete; while there is certainly much that can be said for socialism and sexual liberation, Tynan's blatant hypocrisy (there are several references to his employing servants and nannies) and his very middle-class hatred of anything at all tainted by being middle-class, does not make for a convincing advertisement. I can only imagine how awful his 'spanking film', which he spends several years trying to find backers for, would have been. But these are, believe it or not, minor cavils, and actually add to the enjoyment of looking over Tynan's shoulder as he unburdens himself of his daily thoughts. (He certainly does not let himself off lightly, frequently despairing over his lassitude.) And the concluding entries, shadowed as they are by the reader's (and Tynan's) knowledge of his imminent death, are genuinely moving. I trust and hope there is more Tynan to be reissued soon. He's a fine companion.	2002-03-19
US	53026788	R3VA9H9E09P2SN	080902859X	806086708	Before the Storm: Barry Goldwater and the Unmaking of the American Consensus	Books	2	21	41	N	N	An important story marred by poor writing	Goldwater's disastorous 1964 Presidential campaign is the vehicle for telling the book's real story: the rise of the ultra-conservative movement in American politics in the sixties. It is undoubtedly an important story, and one that Perlstein has researched considerably. However, Perlstein's work is undone not by his findings, or his damaging portrayal of the burgeoning right-wing movement -- I concur with him on these points -- but by very lazy presentation. Perlstein has obvioulsy drunk deep at the David Halberstam well. He can rattle off an anecdote, but he is dreadfully prolix. The book is at least two hundred pages too long. No reader opening a book on sixties politics needs an eight-hundred word summary of Kubrick's Dr. Strangelove. Perlstein has also made a mess in organising his material; he leaps back and forth, from person to person, without ever stitching the requisite parts together. One moment Henry Cabot Lodge looks to be the certain favourite for the 1964 Republican nomination, and we are treated to fifteen pages on the organisation of his campaign; later we are told, almost as an aside, that he has withdrawn from the race, and Perlstein never explains why. Sam Tannehaus's 'Whittaker Chambers' is a much more assured analysis of the growth of anti-communist hysteria in the fifties and sixites, and is considerably shorter and better crafted than Perlstein's book. A more thorough editor and an author more intent on telling the story carefully and well would have made 'Before the Storm' a much better book than it is.	2002-01-06
US	53026788	R2GGGBPTEZ7XNJ	1853754110	929931758	Augustus Carp Esq. By Himself (Prion Humour Classics)	Books	5	23	23	N	N	A lost classic	I first became aware of this lost classic through Frank Muir's anthology of comic prose. I was lucky enough to find a copy in my local library and, following several hysteria-plagued re-readings, I decided to buy a second-hand copy. This book inspires devotees. I enquired after many newly advertised second-hand copies of the book online, only to be told by dealers that the book had been sold immediately on being placed online, and that, moreover, I was the sixth or seventh person to have asked after it. (I did manage to snare a copy eventually.) So Prion is doing the reading public a great service in rescuing the book from its undeserved out-of-print limbo. Augustus Carp is an anti-hero who can easily stand comparison with Waugh's greatest snobs, and as a bore and a prig he could almost have sprung from the mind of Patrick Hamilton (another neglected genius). Anyone who has ever felt that the Church is rather too keen to deny basic pleasures will find the book's feverish satire a tonic; loathers of hypocrisy will put it by their bedside tables; those who love to laugh will buy four or five copies for friends. It's that good.	2001-10-22
US	53026788	R1YLSG52HUF4ND	0879519312	481632924	The Dog of the South	Books	5	58	58	N	N	A comic gem!	'The Dog of the South' is a perfect novel. This sounds like hyperbole. It is short; there is very little in the way of plot; the characters do not develop in any way: yet the book is as engaging and entertaining as anything I have ever read. Before embarking on my second reading (just a fortnight after I finished my first) I planned to write down my favourite lines from the book. I gave up because I was transcribing almost the entire novel. No synopsis can do it justice. Ray Blount, Jr. has said of this book that 'no-one should die without reading it.' I'm with him all the way.	2001-10-08
US	53026788	R3LNJ92DHYCUHW	0226893944	558614201	A Miracle, A Universe: Settling Accounts with Torturers	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A gripping, passionate work of reportage.	This is a magnificent book about a terrible subject. From the sixties through till the mid-Eighties, almost the entire continent of South America fell under the sway, or rather the boot, of military dictatorship. The dictatorships were, without exception but with varying degrees of vigour, active in torturing political prisoners. Weschler does a masterful job in describing the various forces that contributed to the overthrow of democracy throughout the Southern cone (not the least of which was American insistence on training Southern militaries and police forces in counter-insurgency in the hope that Castro's example would not spread further south), but the book's focus is not only the depravities of the two regimes -- Brazil and Uruguay -- but on the efforts of survivors of torture and imprisonment to make their oppressors see and recognise their evils. <br />The first section, 'A miracle, a universe' recounts the incredible efforts that went into collating and publishing the account Brasil: Nunca Mais (Brazil: Never Again), a book which set forth the policies of systematic torture and denial of due process practiced by Brazil's dictators. The truly remarkable aspect of the work was that all the material was obtained from the regime's own archives, over a period of several years, and at great personal risk to the authors. It's an inspiring story, and one that demonstrates the power of the written word. <br />The second and longer part of the book, 'The reality of the world', centres of the efforts of a committe in Uruguay to call those accused of torture during the country's decade-plus period of military dictatorship to account. In an effort to hasten reconciliation (or so they claimed), the civilian government declared an amnesty for those imprisoned for subversion under the old regime; later this amnesty was extended to those who tortured their political enemies. A group of concerned citizens began an exhausting referendum campaign to put the second amnesty to avote. Weschler makes their task as exciting as a Hollywood thriller, without ever losing sight of the horror and tragedy which had been their inspiration. It's a beautifully structured, patient, and gorgeously written piece of work. An afterword makes some more general claims about the need to speak up on the subject of torture. 'The scream that comes welling out of the torture chamber is thus double -- the body calling out to the soul, the self calling out to others -- and in both cases, it goes unanswered. Torture's stark lesson is precisely that enveloping silence: it aims to take that silence and introject it back into its victim, to replace the flame of subjectivity with an abject, hollow void.' It is through reading books like Weschler's, and discussing and acting on his suggestions and the example of those in Brazil and Uruguay and elsewhere, that this silence can be partly drowned out. The book deserves -- indeed, demands -- a wide readership.	2001-03-13
US	53026788	R2N9KL7B8UO7Y2	0374522871	31986107	Coming into the Country	Books	5	23	23	N	N	An outstanding work of reportage	Again and again we hear it, but it's true: John McPhee can interest a reader in anything. He manages to combine a richly sedimented prose, which frequently rises to a level of virtuosity of which 95% of novelists would be envious, with a tangible involvement in the activities of the people he writes about. And he does always write, first and foremost, about people. 'Coming into the Country' is McPhee's longest single book and contains about ten capsule biographies (and quite a bit of modest autobiography, too) in addition to observations on the hibernation of bears, the various techniques of panning for gold, the advantages of sled-dogs against snow-machines, the failings of bush-pilots, and three-dozen other disquisitions.<br />Without wishing to carp, I do think that the book is a shade too long -- the final section 'Coming into the Country' could profitably have been pruned of about forty pages -- but the greater length does allow the reader to see the effort McPhee goes to to provide his stories with an aesthetically pleasing structure. The first section, 'The Encircled River' deposits us, in medias res, halfway down a tributary of one of Alaska's northenmost rivers. McPhee and his companions travel downriver to the confluence of a larger river, and then we head back to the headwaters of the earlier river -- the story describes an encircling pattern. The second part 'What they were looking for' is a very funny record of a helicopter trip taken by a committee established to decide on a new capital for Alaska. Here the story skips around the theme as the chopper skips around proposed sites for the new metropolis.   It's in the final section which gives the book its title that McPhee really lets loose, leaping from the present to the past, from those living on the river to those encamped in the small town of Eagle, back to the Indian village, on to a white mountain trapper and his Indian wife, back to the first goldrush era in the Yukon valley, all the time incorporating off-the-record views of Eagle townspeople, journal entries, his own observations of the breathtaking landscape. It's a tour-de-force.  McPhee is the best journalist in the English-speaking world. Alaska is a wonderful place. The meeting of the two is something to behold.	2001-02-05
US	53026788	R32P6R3X6KY5EN	0688166385	352393955	Killshot	Books	4	15	19	N	N	A near-masterpiece.	From 'Split Images' to 'Get Shorty', a run encompassing about ten books, Elmore Leonard could do no wrong -- every one of these titles is compelling. 'Killshot' ranks as the best (perhaps tying with 'Split Images') book of this period. The plotting is clever in that it is put at the service of the characters -- action unfolds from character, rather than being imposed on it. And the prose, especially the dialogue, is pitch-perfect. (Compare Leonard's dialogue with that of James Ellroy, and see why Leonard is still regarded as the master.) What makes Leonard's books so enjoyable, however, is the amount of arcane information he's able to put into his story without ever making it feel crammed. He's written about graphology, Mississippi rivermen, high-steel construction, and Elvis Presley conspiracies (all 'Killshot'); leprosy and embalming ('Bandits'); St Francis of Assisi ('Touch' and 'Bandits'); the overthrow of Trujillo in the Dominican Republic ('Split Images', 'Cat Chaser'); photography and the Secret Service ('LaBrava'); casino operations ('Glitz'); hippie politics ('Freaky Deaky'); and countless other subjects. His facility for making these things interesting almost defies belief.   Surrender yourself to 'Killshot', especially the redoubtable Carmen Colson, and find your plams getting sweaty, your mouth dry, and your heart racing. You'll laugh a lot, too.	2000-12-06
US	53026788	R2YCDAZAFWNDTX	0688169716	189768883	Split Images	Books	4	7	9	N	N	One of Leonard's darker novels.	Of the half-dozen Leonard novels I've read, 'Split Images' is the darkest, and the best (surprisingly, you don't hear much about this one, all the praise being reserved for the likes of 'Get Shorty' and 'Rum Punch'). As is typical with Leonard's work, the bad guy, and the henchman of the bad guy, are the best characters, the hero always being cut from the same cloth, however cool that cloth might be. Robbie Daniels is a flat-out sociopath who, bored with running the business he inherited from his father, wants to become a freelance hitman. He enlists the help of trigger-happy Homicide cop Walter Kouza, and the results are bloody (and frequently hilarious). Only a Homicide lieutenant and his journalist girlfriend stand in the way. 'Split Images' has genuine suspense, a surprising conclusion, and enough savvy talk and jokes to keep even the hardest-to-please reader entertained.	2000-10-17
US	53026788	R300UCFFTETOWY	0688160964	249213514	Freaky Deaky	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Another fine Leonard novel.	I must confess to having recently succumbed to a Leonard addiction. His style is so distinct, and so easy on the eye and ear, that other crime novelists seem flat and pale by comparison. 'Freaky Deaky' only exacerbated my condition. All the classic Leonard elements are in place: the sociopathic crim, the idiot offsider, the character who plans to get rich off the failings of other scammers, and, at the centre, a character too cool to be ruffled by anything. All these elements are realised in snappy dialogue and witty digressions on all manner of pop culture phenomena. The minor failing of 'Freaky Deaky', and one shared by many Leonard novels, is that the conclusion is not as strong as the lead-up demands: Leonard's novels sometimes seem to be all glorious wind-up and very little delivery. I also think that the typical super-cool Leonard hero is never as strongly drawn as the villains, or even as the love-interests Leonard supplies for him; it's hard to tell Leonard's heroes from one another, while the villains all stand out as individuals. But this is carping: Leonard is the best popular writer around.	2000-10-16
US	53026788	R8QMINYZQVSR5	0688160956	922472783	Glitz: A Novel	Books	4	17	19	N	N	As cool as they come.	'Glitz' is the work of a novelist who knows exactly what he's doing. The plotting is strong without ever seeming contrived; the characters, with the possible exception of Vincent Mora, who's a little too good to be  believable, are all arrestingly real; and the backdrops -- Puerto Rico,  Atlantic City, Miami -- are vivdly painted in. The plot here is a little  knottier than in some of Leonard's later books, but is none the worse for  that; his comedy, too, is more subtle.  All crime fiction is really a  guilty pleasure, but that doesn't mean there's not room within the genre  for originality and craftsmanship. Leonard isn't Tolstoy, and doesn't have  any illusions about his stature, but on his own turf he is a master, and  worth ten novelists who've buried their heads in Derrida and Lacan. Like  his protagonist, Leonard knows all the angles. You'll finish this novel  with a broad smile on your face, and a desire to read all of Leonard's  work.	2000-07-28
US	53026788	R1DUH9IR7YIWAS	0613162544	347949682	The Cobra Event (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Enjoyable but lightweight.	I read this novel after being thrilled by 'The Hot Zone'. Good as parts of the novel are, I think 'The Cobra Event' demonstrates that Preston's talents are best employed in non-fiction. 'The Cobra Event'ultimately  failed to engross this reader because the characters were to obviously  constructed as engines to drive Preston's point about biological weapons  and bioterrorism. Preston never convinced me that these people could exist  outside his story (the dialogue, as one other reviewer pointed out, is  pretty ordinary). Cliches abound. The last fifty pages, in particular, are  almost embarrasing: this is a writer calling out to all Hollywood  producers, 'option this book, please'. Since the publication of this novel,  Preston has continued to write fascinating articles in the 'New Yorker',  some of them on bioterrorism. I hope they form another non-fiction classic  soon.	2000-07-12
US	53026788	R3ASFZUQHKBCQT	0306802058	909413090	Against The American Grain: Essays Of The Effects Of Mass Culture (A Da Capo paperback)	Books	5	21	22	N	N	A brilliant, witty collection that demands reisuue.	There's not much I can add to David Montgomery's review -- an excellent one -- about the intellectual assumptions and findings of this book.  Macdonald is an elitist, and if that bothers you, then you might as well  pass on this collection. What I think David Montgomery failed to mention,  however, is Macdonald's superlative style. He's the most entertaining of  the 'New York Intellectuals' -- more fun than Irving Howe, less stuffy than  Philip Rahv, less egotistical than Mary McCarthy. (A good indication of  Macdonald's openness to the opinions of others is his printing of George  Plimpton's dissent on Hemingway.) I suppose the tension between High  Culture and Masscult, which so occupies Macdonald in these pages, is still  apparent today, although I think he might argue that Masscult has  completely overrun High Culture; but what makes these essays appealing now,  forty years after some of them appeared, is the felicity of Macdonald's  style and the fecundity of his wit. A collection of Macdonald's best  essays, put together by a sympathetic editor, might help restore his fading  reputation.	2000-07-10
US	53026788	R39YS5Z8TDDWFV	0385324170	393560935	Riding the Rap	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A fine, funny read.	This was my first Elmore Leonard. I came to him through Martin Amis's recommendation, thinking that any prose good enough for Martin would be good enough for me. I wasn't disappointed. 'Riding the Rap' is unashamedly  light reading, what another reviewer rightly called a 'guilty pleasure',  but on its own terms it is a really first-rate piece of craftsmanship. The  characters are interesting -- they're all a little skewed; the dialogue  outstanding; and there's a rich vein of humour, much of it quite broad,  running through the book. On the strength of this one, I'll be reading more  Elmore Leonard.	2000-07-10
US	53026788	R3HGQ6UTA2EZSJ	0767903854	430278994	In a Sunburned Country	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Good fun all the way.	Bryson's books are unapologetically light reading. The gags come thick and fast, and some of them are surprisingly good: the first fifty pages of this book will have you hooting with laughter. (His analysis of Manning Clarke's  turgid prose style is terrific.) And while I don't think Bryson writes  enough about the people he meets on his trips, he does manage to impart  interesting information, some of it quite arcane. A few complaints: the  book is about fifty pages too long, and readers of Bryson's earlier books  might find happy Bryson less witty than grumpy Bryson -- I think I read  'it's an interesting place' a dozen times. If I were Bill, I wouldn't plan  on visting Hobart in the near future: failing to mention Tasmania at all  will make him very unpopular down south.	2000-06-27
US	53026788	R3UOHDBAV0ZZMK	0786866527	474101056	Experience	Books	5	38	42	N	N	A book true to the texture of experience.	I think that Martin Amis has never written more beautifully than he does in `Experience'. This is saying a lot. In the last twenty years no other writer -- not even John Updike -- has displayed a comparable love of  language: what Sebastian Faulks calls Amis's 'disciplined literary  exuberance'. I think the 'disciplined' part is something a lot of people  overlook in talking about Amis's linguistic acrobatics.  Amis never eschews  lucidity in his writing; every word is carefully chosen, every adverb and  adjective absolutely spot-on. <br />'Experience' shows Amis turning his prose  on himself, and his family, particularly his father; yet the book isn't a  conventional memoir. James Wood, in an insightful review, wrote of the book  as `an escape from memoir...an escape into privacy.' Rather than trace in  detail the life of a successful writer in the post-WW2 world, the advances  and the interviews, Amis has tackled the universal theme of innocence  becoming experience; of Youth becoming Age and ultimately Death. This is  not to say that Amis has gone super-solemn. `Experience' is full of  wonderful set-pieces (including a wonderfully funny account of Christopher  Hitchens laying into Saul Bellow over Israel's foreign policy) and his  father's tidal-wave wit is everywhere. But at the heart of `Experience'  sits the understanding that Death is inescapable, yet not impossible to  accept. Kingsley's death - the most moving part of the book - removes the  intercessionary figure that stands between Martin and Death; yet it also  makes him realise how precious and important life is, and how lucky writers  are in being able to leave their best work behind them. I should say that  `Experience' does have its annoyances. There are too many footnotes,  interesting though some of them are; and Amis appears to be leaning more  and more on the ellipsis as a literary device, and diminishing returns are  starting to creep in. But these are minor cavils. `Experience', I believe,  will pass the sternest test of literary value: it will reward re-readings  in the years to come.	2000-06-13
US	53026788	R32L67865ZYK5M	0141182229	555205161	Carpenter's Gothic (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	25	25	N	N	The most breathless novelist of all time?	Gaddis must give Thomas Bernhard a run for his money. While Bernhard           specialises in the ranting monologue -- and denies the reader the breathing           space of a single paragraph-break -- Gaddis plunges us  into a cacophony of           competing voices. Passages of description and  narration are few and far           between, and even when we get them,  they're written telegraphically, almost as a stream-of-consciousness, with  only the most minimal punctuation. I'm an advocate of lucidity in prose as            a rule, but Gaddis's energy does away with the distinctions  between lucidity and           obscurity -- after a single page of this  novel, you know you're in the hands of a           master, one of the  greatest writers of dialogue the novel has known. (He           makes David  Mamet seem quiescent by comparison.) The material of the           novel  seems terribly unpromising. It's set almost entirely in one house (full of  false walls and chimneys unconnected to fireplaces -- a sure sign that  everything is not as it seems) and the protagonist, Liz, is a nervous  wreck. None of the characters really communicate with one another -- or at  least not while they're talking. The plot is inordiantely complex, and  we're often given information that doesn't make sense at the time.  And Liz  is the only person who really manages to elicit any sympathy from the  reader.  But it's still a thrilling read, because Gaddis stokes the  rhetorical fires unceasingly and with unflagging wit. A good starting point  for his three larger novels.	2000-05-26
US	53026788	RPHMWRI5CL0OB	0393035190	579658770	Pertinent Players: Essays on the Literary Life	Books	2	7	18	N	N	Lightweight fare.	The best thing that can be said about this volume of Epstein's essays is that he usually chooses good subjects, and he quotes from their writings judiciously. This is not to say that Epstein always writes about  well-documented writers; several of the pieces in this volume examine the  achievements of nineteenth-century literary titans whose fame has faded  with time. Epstein's other strength is that, while his writing is often  fussy and over-cute (he frequently reads like an unfunny Calvin Trillin),  he abjures jargon.<br />When it comes to originality of ideas or  interpretation, however, the Epstein bag of tricks is empty. He takes an  instant dislike to any writer whose politics don't toe the neo-con line;  and he draws his findings from a demonstrably shallow series of researches.  In writing the essay on Sydney Smith, for example, Epstein appears to have  done no more than flick through the biographies of Hesketh Pearson and  Peter Virgin. And while I approve of Epstein's championing of Henry James  as a writer, I find his method -- a diary record of a class he taught, that  opens with a series of glowing student evaluations -- bland and sometimes  embarrassing. Lionel Trilling is insulted a few times by Epstein in the  course of this collection, but any discriminating reader will find more  illumination in a paragraph of 'The Liberal Imagination' than is present in  the whole of 'Pertinent Players'.	2000-05-18
US	53026788	RSKJJ5U173IH9	0375503552	622445077	Life Stories: Profiles from The New Yorker	Books	5	32	32	N	N	An outstanding collection of profiles.	It's easy, I suppose, to knock 'The New Yorker' as effete and self-satisfied. Certainly its left-wing bias looks a bit strange surrounded by all those ads for expensive imported whisky and porcelain figures. This book demonstrates, however, that for seventy-five years the magazine has  been turning out splendid profiles of a very disparate group of people.  And, what's even more important, they're written so beautifully. Even an  oddball piece like Ian Frazier's 'Nobody Better, Better than Nobody' is  lucid and full of fine sentences. Every one of the profiles in this book  has something to recommend it. You needn't admire or be familiar with the  subject of the profile. I harbour an intense dislike for Roseanne Barr, for  example, but John Lahr's profile of her had me enthralled; and I enjoyed  Roger Angell's piece on Steve Blatt, despite my never having seen a  baseball game. David Remnick states in his introduction that he gave pride  of place to Joseph Mitchell's 'Mister Hunter's Grave', and that's  understandable: it's a masterpiece. But Richard Preston's long story about  the Chudnovsky brothers and their search for pi, or Mark Singer's tale of  the amazing sleight-of-hand artist Ricky Jay, would distinguish any  anthology. I think that Remnick could easily compile another volume as  strong, and I hope he does so in the future -- he should include something  by himself next time.	2000-03-24
US	53026788	R1RN2DW2JA7NUZ	0375502173	27898886	The Broken Estate: Essays on Literature and Belief	Books	4	28	29	N	N	Brilliant, with the promise of better things to come.	'The Broken Estate' is one of the best volumes of literary criticism to have been published in the last ten years. It's plain that James Wood has immersed himself in comparative literature. That he is so young is further  cause for excitement (and jealousy). I happen to disagree with Wood's  assessments of some of the writers dealt with here, but I can't help  admiring how seriously and enthusiastically he makes his case in each  essay. The one fault I find -- and it's a localised one -- is in his  writing. His prose is generally graceful, and all the essays are carefully  structured, but he can lose himself in abstractions or flights of fancy.  Wood demolishes the lofty pronouncements of  George Steiner -- his  'imprecisions and melodramas'-- while occasionally indulging in the same  sort of thing himself: the first two sentences of his introduction, for  example, make no discernible sense. I don't think these lapses damage his  arguments, but they distract the reader's attention, however briefly, from  the main thrust of the essay. But this is a minor cavil. On the evidence of  the work contained in 'The Broken Estate', we may have found the coming  century's Edmund Wilson.	2000-02-15
US	53026788	R2UF7T6DR832X2	019288106X	448947062	The Oxford Book of Essays	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Fine selection of great pieces.	Gross was faced with a tough task when asked to edit this volume: how to cram the history of a form that is so flexible, and so widely used, into a compact volume? Essays have been selected from the seventeenth century on,  and Gross has included writers from the USA as well as Britain. Almost his  only concession has been the exclusion of any writer born after WW2.  Plagued by so much choice, he has done a great job. Of course, there are  omissions. Several writers from 'The New Yorker' have their say, but there  was no room for its two best essayists, A. J. Liebling and Joseph Mitchell.  And the abscence of Kenneth Tynan is lamentable: his essay on the folly of  the Lord Chamberlin, the Censor of Plays in Britain, is far better than  that of Joseph Conrad, a brilliant novelist but an undistiunguished  essayist, which is included here. But everyone will find a few favourites  missing in any book of this kind. In fact, Gross has sometimes tried to be  too representative, to include too many discrete essays, with the result  that he seems to have plumped for very short pieces. Perhaps half a dozen  writers seem to have been included simply because they are or were great  writers, and not because they wrote great essays. Others are represented by  inferior pieces, largely for reasons of space -- space often taken up by  lesser writers. E.B. White, for instance, gets just over two pages for a  pretty run-of-the-mill essay, where he would be better served by 'Death of  a Pig' or 'Farewell, my lovely!', both of which are far better than, say,  anything by Joseph Epstein. And John Updike's 'The Bankrupt Man' hardly  gives an idea of what he's capable of. But these are minor quibbles. Anyone  who enjoys reading essays will find countless hours of enjoyment in this  book: essays by Samuel Johnson, Walter Bagehot, G. K. Chesterton, Max  Beerbohm, John Jay Chapman, and many others, are classics that repay many  re-readings.	2000-02-11
US	53026788	R2ACLHQH6GB80U	019288106X	448947062	The Oxford Book of Essays	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Fine selection of great pieces.	Gross was faced with a tough task when asked to edit this volume: how to cram the history of a form that is so flexible, and so widely used, into a compact volume? Essays have been selected from the seventeenth century on,  and Gross has included writers from the USA as well as Britain. Almost his  only concession has been the exclusion of any writer born after WW2.  Plagued by so much choice, he has done a great job. Of course, there are  omissions. Several writers from 'The New Yorker' have their say, but there  was no room for its two best essayists, A. J. Liebling and Joseph Mitchell.  And the abscence of Kenneth Tynan is lamentable: his essay on the folly of  the Lord Chamberlin, the Censor of Pays in Britain, is far better than that  of Joseph Conrad, a brilliant novelist but an undistiunguished essayist,  which is included here. But everyone will find a few favourites missing in  any book of this kind. In fact, Gross has sometimes tried to be too  representative, to include too many discrete essays, with the result that  he seems to have plumped for very short pieces. Perhaps half a dozen  writers seem to have been included simply because they are or were great  writers, and not because they wrote great essays. Others are represented by  inferior pieces, largely for reasons of space -- space often taken up by  lesser writers. E.B. White, for instance, gets just over two pages for a  pretty run-of-the-mill essay, where he would be better served by 'Death of  a Pig' or 'Farewell, my lovely!', both of which are far better than, say,  anything by Joseph Epstein. And John Updike's 'The Bankrupt Man' hardly  gives an idea of what he's capable of. But these are minor quibbles. Anyone  who enjoys reading essays will find countless hours of enjoyment in this  book: essays by Samuel Johnson, Walter Bagehot, G. K. Chesterton, Max  Beerbohm, John Jay Chapman, and many others, are classics that repay many  re-readings.	2000-02-11
US	53026788	R5C6HNPHEBFUY	0684855941	456475895	Ex-Friends: Falling Out with Allen Ginsberg, Lionel and Diana Trilling, Lillian Hellman, Hannah Arendt and Norman Mailer	Books	2	9	27	N	N	A billet-doux from Norman to himself	Anyone who gets a laugh out of seeing someone make a fool of himself will find much to admire here, and it's for the book's value as comedy that it wins two stars from me. Podhoretz has become sillier and sillier as the years have gone by, which is disappointing, because his early work was sharp and invigorating. His first book, 'Doings and Undoings', is one of the best examples of the 'brilliant style' favoured by the Partisan Review crowd. But 'Ex-Friends' is his silliest book yet, filled to bursting point with self-love and foolishness. I don't think the problem is Podhoretz's having a shot at old pals, even though all but Mailer are dead; books based on bitching and back-biting can be good if they're fashioned properly. (Holding yourself to the same standards you demand of everyone else is the key.) This one isn't. For starters, Ginsberg wasn't ever a friend of Podhoretz's. The author simply happened across a couple of newspaper accounts in which Ginsberg mentioned that Norman had given him someone to hate for thirty years. I expect Podhoretz would have liked to include James Baldwin as an ex-friend but, remembering he'd already dished the dirt on him in 'Making It', had to use Ginsberg instead. And Podhoretz's attack on Lionel Trilling is motivated simply by his own vanity (and his real dislike of Diana Trilling). Apparently it was tantamount to treason for Lionel to suggest that 'Making It', Podhoretz's fatuous account of his rise to semi-prominence, needed work. For someone who grew up in a tough neighbourhood and who made his career in criticising the writing of others, Podhoretz displays an over-sensitive nature when he's on the receiving end of the criticism. Perhaps his tough, take-no-prisoners stand on political issues is really masking an ego much more fragile than he'd like to admit; whatever the reason, his ego certainly gets a lot of stroking in 'Ex-Friends'. Read the book, have a laugh, remember that literature's loss is comedy's gain, and wait forthe next collection of love letters written by, and for, Norman Podhoretz.	2000-01-24
US	53026788	R2GPFT3W6EAF2B	1558219358	684854741	The Sporting Life: Horses, Boxers, Rivers, and a Russian Ballclub	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Entertaining but slight	Barich writes beautiful clean prose, and there's always a sly sense of humour in his stories, but this volume is a bit of a disappointment. Only the piece on Irish Pat Lawlor really seems to have been worked up; the  others have the appearance of having been dashed off quickly and a bit  carelessly -- the endings, in particular, look hurried -- although the  prose is always fine. Two pieces in particular make one feel let down.  'Going to the Moon', the story of a Russian baseball team, looks to be just  building up steam when it ends; and 'Feather River Country' just goes  nowhere at all. That said, 'The Sporting Life' is still a pleasant light  read, and I'll keep my eye out for what Barich does in the future.	1999-12-22
US	53026788	R3GP8FYXI9GW8B	0679746315	116218361	Up in the Old Hotel	Books	5	125	129	N	N	Mythical New York	Joseph Mitchell may be the best writer ever to have worked on the 'New Yorker' staff (the other contenders would include Edmund Wilson and A. J. Liebling). Every story in this long book is worth reading, and re-reading;  the later pieces, from 'The Bottom of the Harbour' and especially 'Joe  Gould's Secret' are tours-de-force of reporting. Mitchell invests his  characters with so much life that they take on almost mythical proportions,  without ever sacrificing their humanity. Although Mitchell often chose to  write about people on the margins of society -- a homeless beggar like Joe  Gould, a bearded lady, the hard-drinking Hugh Flood -- he never did so in a  patronising manner. He admires these people not because of their struggles  or hard lives, but despite them: he sees them, and makes us see them, as  fellow human beings, not social welfare cases. Mitchell freely admits that  listening to Joe Gould was a strain, and that Gould could be, like people  who own houses and property and know where their next meal is coming from,  selfish and mean-spirited; far from making Gould unattractive, this serves  to make him come alive -  homeless people don't become plaster saints, and  it's silly to pretend otherwise. A key component in these stories is  Mitchell's own persona, which is much like his prose style: quiet,  unassertive, but immensely attractive. It is a great pity that, for  whatever reason, Mitchell fell silent for the last thirty years of his  life; but any sadness can be assuaged by dipping back into 'Up in the Old  Hotel', where Mitchell's brilliant handling of detail and character -- and  his shapely way with the structure of a profile, always dovetailing to a  perfect close -- can be sampled time and again.	1999-12-16
US	53026788	R11B2YS1ZBW2WG	1859847366	676518692	No One Left to Lie to: The Triangulations of William Jefferson Clinton	Books	4	17	19	N	N	A trenchant attack on a crook	The great thing about Hitchens is that he's always on the front foot, always attacking. While this might occasionally lead him into overstatement, it's pleasing to see someone of the left unafraid to make an  aggressive case against Clinton. His sobering -- but witty -- exposure of  the President as a mendacious, hypocritical, and bigoted creep should be  required reading for anyone interested in politics (which in a perfect  world would be everyone). Despite what other reviewers say, Hitchens's ire  is aroused not by the President's predilection for shady bedroom antics,  but by his canting, offensive attacks on others when they engage in similar  -- albeit less predatory -- activites. Although the book does display  traces of having been composed a mite hastily, it's generally refreshingly  vigorous, and always irreverent. Even those who disagree with Hitchens will  be made to question their opinions about Bill.	1999-12-09
US	53026788	R79SKZQ94WBUA	0802114857	75731578	The Thing Happens: Ten Years of Writing About the Movies	Books	4	8	12	N	N	Stylish writing	Although Terrence Rafferty is obviously indebted to Pauline Kael -- they both share, in addition to a mystifying regard for Brian De Palma, a snappy, conversational style -- his prose is a smoother, and his opinions,  while always delivered forthrightly, are a little less kinky than Kael's. I  think this is an excellent collection of film criticism and appreciation.  The long essay on Renoir's 'Rules of the Game' is first rate, and his  overviews of several prominent director's careers are right on the money.  Anyone who enjoys Pauline Kael will find much to admire in the writing of  Terrence Rafferty. When can we have more of his work, especially the  first-rate stuff he's doing for GQ now?	1999-11-09
US	53026788	R2NGRW9AXQHGQX	0679756396	989216790	Profiles	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Fireworks galore!	Tynan was one of the century's great journalists, capable of capturing a performer in two paragraphs, yet equally adept at longer essays, several of which are collected here. The pieces on Stoppard and Louise Brooks are  particularly fine. The reviewer below is right: the writing is to die for;  but, compared to Epstein, Tynan is a super-hevyweight, with ten times the  force and prose-potency.	1999-08-26
US	53026788	R13ML63N2LY73W	0679426108	312469695	Letters	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Great Writing	I think the above review needs a corrective. Tynan was the sharpest, funniest, and best-informed theatre critic of his generation. He was also a wonderful stylist, and a precocious one: many writers never write as well  as Tynan did while still in his teens. These letters can be enjoyed simply  for their manipulation of language, but there's more to them than that.  Tynan always liked to think of himself as an outsider, as someone pushing  the envelope; yet he also was entranced by the establishment at play, and  he enjoyed lowbrow entertainment almost as much as Shakespeare and  Sophocles. These letters demonstrate this bifurcation of character, making  for a sort of un-selfconscious autobiography. Well worth buying for anyone  who likes reading letters, and a must for Tynan fans. when can we have some  more of his work reisssued?	1999-05-28
