US	53032188	R1BZ95H1WX2KNX	0897500733	760051599	001: Ninja Volume 1: Spirit of the Shadow Warrior	Books	5	4	8	N	N	The first book from the man that revived ninjitsu	From the table of contents:    1. Historical perspectives  2. Building blocks of the universe  3. Fighting  4. The Sixth Center  5. Active Meditation  6. Extended realities  7. The art of understanding    Written by the first American ninjutsu teacher, this book covers the history of ninjutsu, philosophy, fighting, the mind as a tool of the spirit, active meditation, extended realities and the art of understanding. Fully illustrated techniques with step-by-step photos and instructions.	2004-08-16
US	53032188	R2VUSFECGI33UR	0897500903	296483140	003: Ninja Volume 3: Warrior Path of Togakure	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Hayes' Ninja series, part 3	From the Table of Contents:    1. The path  2. Enlightened consciousness  3. Ninja invisibility  4. Ken Tai Ichi Jo  5. Kuji-Kiri    Written by the first American ninjutsu teacher, this book covers the history of ninjutsu, philosophy, fighting, the mind as a tool of the spirit, active meditation, extended realities and the art of understanding. Fully illustrated techniques with step-by-step photos and instructions.	2004-08-16
US	53032188	R1T7BQCJK850BZ	0897501233	672248227	005: Ninja Volume 5: Lore of the Shinobi Warrior	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Hayes' Ninja series, part 5	From the table of contents:    1. Lessons behind the lessons  2. Myths of ninjitsu  3. Ninpo Taijitsu  4. Jissen No Ho    Written by the first American ninjutsu teacher, this book covers the history of ninjutsu, philosophy, fighting, the mind as a tool of the spirit, active meditation, extended realities and the art of understanding. Fully illustrated techniques with step-by-step photos and instructions	2004-08-16
US	53032188	R1ZATLGIXZ0V1H	0897501020	566688111	Ninja Volume 4: Legacy of the Night Warrior	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Hayes' Ninja series, part 4	From the table of contents:    1. the unfolding story  2. The five elements of escape  3. Flowing action  4. Kunoichi  5. The force of intention    Written by the first American ninjutsu teacher, this book covers the history of ninjutsu, philosophy, fighting, the mind as a tool of the spirit, active meditation, extended realities and the art of understanding. Fully illustrated techniques with step-by-step photos and instructions	2004-08-16
US	53032188	RH2027VI1CNWH	013101885X	366196349	Venture Capital Investing: The Complete Handbook for Investing in Private Businesses for Outstanding Profits	Books	4	16	16	N	N	VC Investing Basics	Much updated from previous editions, David Gladstone's useful text provides a very cursory survey of deal and investment techniques, albeit for slightly later than \\"sexy\\" stage deals. However, as this book is designed for the novice, and as Lipper's text has fallen out of print, this sadly remains the only general text on VC investing for the inexperienced, and is useful in context of the level which it is designed to educate. While the many checklists may be somewhat annoying to seasoned VCs, they are probably indispensable to the novice investor, since they provide a summary framework when working through deal and business terms. And while the book is designed more for later stage (through certainly not LATE stage, as some have alluded to) deals, the book is, again, designed to educate the novice venture investor, who really shouldn't be doing high tech start-ups anyway. Irrespective of that, anyone who presumes to write a text on investing in high tech start ups would likely find his text applicable only for the next few months after printing. Ours is an industry that evolves very quickly, and changes rapidly in accordance to the latest trends. No one can teach you how to pick the winners in the trend that hasn't happened yet. Getting the basics from a text like Gladstone's, however, can give you the fundamentals on which to build that \\"knack\\".	2004-07-13
US	53032188	R3Q4MPN3K04N5Z	0887304613	864895542	Nothing Ventured: The Perils and Payoffs of the Great American Venture Capital Game	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Very good anecdotal review of the VC process	Compared to several other no less valuable VC \\"how to\\" texts, Robert Kunze's \\"Nothing Ventured\\" is unique in the fact that it is almost entirely anecdotal, filled with numerous war-stories (some won, some lost) that illustrate venturing concepts in a much less dry, textbook format. In fact, some of these illustrations are down-right riveting! When the book was published, Kunze, a senior, ambassador-like figure in the VC community, was in the thick of high tech investing. While other texts may better illustrate, (granted in their dryer, less engaging way), the basic essentials of general VC investing, Kunze's work gives better insight into the decision making process in high tech investing. No textbook to date has satisfactorily dealt with this exciting, high-wire industry, and it seems that Kunze's \\"case study\\" method may in fact be the best method to tackle it. While the technologies of the companies he reviews may no longer be cutting edge, the review process and problems encountered are still the same as today. While the dryer texts may provide the skeletal and musculature systems of VC investing, \\"Nothing Ventured\\" adds a bit of the heart, mind and soul to the picture.	2004-07-13
US	53032188	R15SK256YKN4MF	0130654930	419392133	Venture Capital Handbook: An Entrepreneur's Guide to Raising Venture Capital, Revised and Updated Edition	Books	4	2	3	N	N	VC Basics	Much updated from previous editions, David Gladstone's useful text provides a very cursory survey of deal and investment techniques, albeit for slightly later than \\"sexy\\" stage deals. However, as this book is designed for the novice, and as Lipper's text has fallen out of print, this sadly remains the only general text on VC investing for the inexperienced, and is useful in context of the level which it is designed to educate. While the many checklists may be somewhat annoying to seasoned VCs, they are probably indispensable to the novice investor, since they provide a summary framework when working through deal and business terms. And while the book is designed more for later stage (through certainly not LATE stage, as some have alluded to) deals, the book is, again, designed to educate the novice venture investor, who really shouldn't be doing high tech start-ups anyway. Irrespective of that, anyone who presumes to write a text on investing in high tech start ups would likely find his text applicable only for the next few months after printing. Ours is an industry that evolves very quickly, and changes rapidly in accordance to the latest trends. No one can teach you how to pick the winners in the trend that hasn't happened yet. Getting the basics from a text like Gladstone's, however, can give you the fundamentals on which to build that \\"knack\\".	2004-07-13
US	53032188	R2UT1XX2V5Z81H	0139414282	366196349	Venture Capital Investing: The Complete Handbook for Investing in Small Private Businesses for Outstanding Profits	Books	4	1	2	N	N	VC Basics	Much updated from previous editions, David Gladstone's useful text provides a very cursory survey of deal and investment techniques, albeit for slightly later than \\"sexy\\" stage deals. However, as this book is designed for the novice, and as Lipper's text has fallen out of print, this sadly remains the only general text on VC investing for the inexperienced, and is useful in context of the level which it is designed to educate. While the many checklists may be somewhat annoying to seasoned VCs, they are probably indispensable to the novice investor, since they provide a summary framework when working through deal and business terms. And while the book is designed more for later stage (through certainly not LATE stage, as some have alluded to) deals, the book is, again, designed to educate the novice venture investor, who really shouldn't be doing high tech start-ups anyway. Irrespective of that, anyone who presumes to write a text on investing in high tech start ups would likely find his text applicable only for the next few months after printing. Ours is an industry that evolves very quickly, and changes rapidly in accordance to the latest trends. No one can teach you how to pick the winners in the trend that hasn't happened yet. Getting the basics from a text like Gladstone's, however, can give you the fundamentals on which to build that \\"knack\\".	2004-07-12
US	53032188	R3CDD54754GNWW	091725399X	814556773	Venture's Financing and Investing in Private Companies: A Guide to Understanding Entrepreneurs and Their Relationships With Investors, Lenders, and A	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Still one of the best VC &quot;how to&quot; books, despite its age.	Despite the book's venerable age, Arthur Lipper's advice is still spot-on for those interested in becoming part of a VC firm, or for those who have money and wish to invest in high growth private enterprises. Having been in the industry for almost 20 years myself, I re-read Lipper's text at least once every few years to remind myself of some of the fundamentals one tends to overlook when deeply immersed in the art of &quot;the deal&quot;. Most usefully, Lipper includes sections on evaluation of rates of return, structuring deals with mutual parity, and even a section on questions one often gets from entrepreneurs, and the logical (detached) responses. In an industry reputedly characterized by innovative and creative thinkers, which is, in reality, often characterized by an almost lemming-like herd mentality, Lipper's work encourages calm thinking and a focus on the fundamentals: of the business, of the deal, and of the objectives both the entrepreneur and the investor.	2004-07-12
US	53032188	R1LNB2F1RNST75	1567181368	656237675	Self-Initiation Into the Golden Dawn Tradition: A Complete Curriculum of Study for Both the Solitary Magician and the Working Magical Group	Books	5	40	49	N	Y	Excellent as a resource, but not a course in itself!!!	Since I am currently participating in the Neophyte grade of the Golden Dawn, I purchased this text as a supplement to my study regimen. While there is some disagreement among my proctors as regards the propriety on the Cicero's part in making this information for the outer grades available, it has been immensely valuable to me as a secondary resource, the the Ciceros have basically done nothing any more inflammatory than Regardie himself in the Publication of the Golden Dawn so many years ago. While the basic information in the various grade lectures is intact, there are also some differences in the perspectives and points of view, as well as some in the timing of information presented (an example of the latter is that the meanings associated with the Tarot cards is presented as if it were part of the Philosophus grade, whereas one is actually exposed to this material during the Neophyte and Zelator grades in the actual Golden Dawn). However, I must concur that &quot;self-initiation&quot; into the Golden Dawn is an onerous, if not impossible, task. It's like writing a text on &quot;Self Admission to and Study of a Harvard MBA&quot;, or such-like. You cannot be part of the Golden Dawn without being intiated into it. The Golden Dawn is not a way of thinking, or a religious belief that one can associate with simply by having a like mind. It's an established magickal order, and to be appreciated by its membership, one must join it. This is much simpler than following the book. First, the Order is actually quite easy to contact, and generally welcomes everyone, at least in the early grades. Second, the course of study is difficult enough, but the initiatory experiences proscribed in the book, while very much the same as in the Temple, are FAR too complicated for a beginner to successfully perform, and completely omit the astral and essential benefit of the performance by ordained initiates of the Golden Dawn. Believe me, it's much simpler to pay your ?120 per year and gothrough the initiatory experience within the temple, as well as have a dedicated instructor/proctor to quiz you on the material. You would spend AT LEAST that amount of money on just the implements required for just one of the initiatory rituals included within this text. Finally, any organized Golden Dawn temple would likely refuse to admit or recognize the work you have done until you actually do take the plunge and JOIN, and even then you would be required to pass through the various grades (no Advanced Placement credit allowed, I'm afraid). If one is looking for a course in magick based on the Golden Dawn system of magick, Modern Magick, by DM Kraig, still stands as one of the best. If one wants to be part of the Golden Dawn, join it! It's easy to do! Then buy this book to supplement the order's already phenomenal course materials.	2004-07-01
US	53032188	R18NBJZ3W8AQNX	0875423248	629408406	Modern Magick: Eleven Lessons in the High Magickal Arts (Llewellyn's High Magick)	Books	5	25	25	N	Y	Essential Magick Course for the Beginning Magus	DM Kraig's essential masterwork is one of the key texts which has taken magick and again thrust it into the daylight. Magickal orders worldwide, from pagans, to Wiccans to the Golden Dawn, owe the tremendous rise in interest in magick in large part to Kraig's influence through this phenomenal volume. Unlike other texts, most characterized by Crowley's habit of talking around magickal theory, Kraig's text emphasizes the &quot;DOING&quot; in magick, and gets the reader/student performing rituals and making magick from the very first chapter. While heavily influenced and almost wholly based on the Golden Dawn system, Modern Magick also incorporates other systems, with a whole lotta pagan workings and a dash of tantric thrown in, to boot. Kraig was one of the first authors to address the much lamented tendency that ceremonial magicians talk ALOT about magick, but actually DO very little. This book is FUNDAMENTALLY focused on doing, and, while a course for the beginner, takes the student through sufficiently advanced magick to satisfy the depth of knowledge any novice is likely to aspire to. Also, Kraig doesn't spend tons of pages on the theoretical aspects, instead giving a cliff notes overview, then pointing the student to other, more comprehensive texts by authors more erudite on them than Kraig wishes to be so he can get the student back to doing magick! It's still the best course in magick out there, and anyone aspiring to learn magick of any sort should purchase this text and pursue the regimen of study and practice within!	2004-07-01
US	53032188	R2DN8J62BJZIXY	0446528072	629642598	The Battle of Evernight: The Bitterbynde Book III	Books	2	34	37	N	N	Barely able to make it through this one....	When I read \\"Ill Made Mute\\", book one in the trilogy, I was in hopes of a very engrossing series. I am a huge fan of the darker, old-world faery tales, set in the primal world where capricious nature spirits are both friend and foe. Unfortunately, by book 2, Dart Thornton seems to have lost her grasp of the simple premise required to keep a reader interested in a story - that an interesting character is one that succeeds in the face of obstacles despite their flaws. Dart Thornton's multi-monikered heroine is perfect and infallible, and it's hard to empathize with a perfect character. Beyond this, she faces no real danger throughout, being nothing more than a damsel-somewhat-inconvenienced, rather than a damsel-in-distress. The struggling, imperfect mute in book one was MUCH more interesting. <br />The really sad fact is that Dart Thornton is just brimming with talent. It oozes from every page. Her command of the English language is superb, and she weaves such evocative prose from her words that one's mind cannot help but vividly imagine the images she creates. Her ability to instill interesting twists is genius (the givers of the kisses which brought on the amnesia in both Book 2 and 3 is unexpected and unique). However, her inability to develop a character that holds ones interest beyond the first few pages of Book 2 is a substantial handicap. <br />In Book 3, the heroine wanders through the wilderness with the two dead-weight ladies in waiting, saving them from all dangers and generally sorting out all problems on her own before the two dim witted women can come to her aid. She becomes a captive in the fortress of the Dark lord of the Faery, but, again, sits as a pampered songbird and suffers no inconvenience during this captivity. She spends her days reading and pining away for her lover, the King of Faery, and generally wasting away since she cannot get back to Faery and remove the curse placed upon her. Her patly portrayed brilliant intellect and the fact thatall who view her fall in love with her seems to save her from any hardship, along with the fact that she has what amounts to an invincible bodyguard in the form of three faery companions in the first place, followed by the king of faery in latter parts of the book.<br />The trilogy is really bizarre, in that from Book 2 through the very ending of Book 3, the heroine is always being showered with favors, protected from harm, and generally pampered by the very villains we, the readers, should be encouraged by the author to fear. Only in the end does she fall to a tragic end. The tragic way in which the series ends, and the injustice of it all, perhaps reflects the fact that Dart Thornton realized her perfectly happy heroine was not sympathetic, but wouldn't it have been better to re-write the full trilogy rather than end it in a manner so obviously contrived? Then again, perhaps Dart Thornton is merely trying to play out the almost overlooked prophesy of the club-foot in Book 2, where, despite appearances, Faery and mortal cannot find happiness together? The long and short of it is that the reader, sufficiently annoyed by the ending, probably isn't inclined to ponder the point too much!<br />Dart Thornton is clearly trying to show the reader a heroine who succeeds despite her femininity. The sad thing is that it is those purely superficial aspects of her femininity that enable her to succeed: infinite beauty and delicacy, and the role of a woman as an object next to her husband. It's quite a betrayal of her sex as an author.<br />The incorporation of Faery tales is indeed novel, and makes for fascinating reading. Some of these I didn't even know of. The visual imagery is superb. The author definitely has superb potential. But a story of a perfect princess rescued at every turn by her perfect prince really isn't that interesting.	2004-06-07
US	53032188	R2DNI27XR4D0P2	0446528323	753255172	1: The Ill-Made Mute: The Bitterbynde Book I (Bitterbynde, Bk 1)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The best of the series	Cecilia Dart Thornton obviously loves the English language. Her prose tends to wax more poetic when she gets her juices flowing. The Bitterbynde trilogy, loosely based on the Celtic faery tale of Midir and Etain, also demonstrates her love for the faery lore of the British Isles, notably Scotland and Ireland.<br />In this first installment, we are introduced to a nameless, amnesiac mute, horribly defaced, and the world in which \\"he\\" lives. It's a primal world of incredible beauty and danger, where humankind is safe only within their walled cities and towns, with the rest of the world belonging to capricious nature spirits. These faeries fall into one of two categories: Seelie, or benign to humankind, and Unseelie, or malign. Interestingly, there seems to be a lot of shifting and overlap, and the brownie that is your friend one day can easily be your persecutor the next. These nature and household spirits pale in comparison to the great Faerun, based on the Sidhe of Ireland, who vacated the world a millennium earlier for unknown reasons. <br />Dart Thornton does have a gift for weaving imagery, and, while most times enjoyable, other reviewers are correct that she occasionally falls foul of attempting to overwhelm the reader with detail. However, her command of the English language is superb, and the imagery evocative. Presumably, she is a new author, and will improve her technique with time.<br />What's not to like? Dart Thornton has obviously read her faery tales, and I suspect was an avid RPG player at one time in her life. Her character has a tendency to have everything thrown at \\"his\\" feet, warded against every dangerous situation, and it is therefore hard to really get too concerned about any crisis \\"he\\" faces, since \\"his\\" benefactors will inevitably rescue \\"him\\". Also, faery tales are comedic, with the protagonist only getting his just reward (or punishment) at the end of the journey from hardship. Dart Thornton's protagonist is constantly showered with uniquewindfalls of the monetary and esoteric variety throughout. It's hard to sympathize with any protagonist who finds such good fortune, particularly in the very first of a three part series.	2004-05-28
US	53032188	R3JE07AI4EYYJC	0446611344	451216890	The Lady of the Sorrows: The Bitterbynde Book II (The Bitterbynde, Book 2)	Books	2	15	17	N	N	What to give the most beautiful, clever woman in the world?	While continuing to show Dart Thornton's command of the English language and research into the Faery lore of the British Isles, this was a very disappointing second installment in the trilogy.<br />The mute, already the cleverest gal in the world, regains her voice and face, only to discover that she is also the most beautiful woman in the world, as well. She travels to the Royal City, and discovers that that very handsome ranger-type fellow who was guiding her through the woods was, in fact, the King-Emperor, who has put a war that threatens all humanity on hold in order to find her (and no one bats and eyebrow as, consequently, masses of humanity fall subject to the depredations of the unseelie). They re-unite, and, contrary to the conversations they used to have in the wild, lapse into archaic speech laced with \\"thees\\", \\"thous\\" and \\"forsooths\\", just as any couple would in private. The most beautiful, cleverest woman in the world then becomes the wealthiest, and all her friends, too, as the King begins to give away honors, titles, wealth and a large part of his kingdom to everyone who helped her (is this wise in a state of war?). The only thing she doesn't have is her memory, and a noble title to go with her looks and cleverness. Could she really be a Princess, who has lost her memory? How could she NOT be!<br />Dart Thornton's protagonist becomes VERY annoying in this second volume. She NEVER once faces any real danger, always being rescued by someone or something, and always before the reader has the chance to get even remotely concerned. She can do no wrong, and is always forgiven her transgressions. The woman sinks an island through her stupidity! The woman has no responsibility for her actions, and demonstrates a tremendous, and dangerous (just ask those islanders), capriciousness from her newfound position of influence. Her companions are dead weight, and actually detract from the most beautiful-clever one's progress. So, why does she keep them around?<br />Clearly, the author has become enamored of her protagonist, and, like a maniacal RPG player, wants them to have EVERYTHING. If they have it all, what's the sense of writing a third book?<br />So what's to like? Dart Thornton's evocative use of the English language is extraordinary, and demonstrates a unique talent. The faery tales which she intersperses throughout, while certainly not original (they're hundreds of years old), are at least used originally as a backdrop, and the book is a great read if for no other reason than these faery tales themselves.<br />Anyone familiar with \\"Faeries\\" of Froud/Lee will recognize the world in which Dart Thornton places her character. Anyone who has ever seen \\"Labyrinth\\" will recognize entire scenes plagiarized, and even the wicked villain seems to be heavily based on Jared, the beautiful faery surrounded by malignant goblins. There really isn't that much original here. The only real originality is in the way Dart Thornton expresses herself (her prose IS beautiful), and the fact that she weaves faery tales into the story of her character. Otherwise, with no danger faced that she won't ultimately be rescued from (and this is a key point in that there is little she has to rescue herself from, with all salvation done by outside agencies), read the book for the faery tales scattered within, and the lovely prose.>Clearly, the author has become enamored of her protagonist, and, like a maniacal RPG player, wants them to have EVERYTHING. If they have it all, what's the sense of writing a third book?<br />So what's to like? Dart Thornton's evocative use of the English language is extraordinary, and demonstrates a unique talent. The faery tales which she intersperses throughout, while certainly not original (they're hundreds of years old), are at least used originally as a backdrop, and the book is a great read if for no other reason than these faery tales themselves. <br />Anyone familiar with \\"Faeries\\" of Froud/Lee will recognize the world in which Dart Thornton places her character. Anyone who has ever seen \\"Labyrinth\\" will recognize entire scenes plagiarized, and even the wicked villain seems to be heavily based on Jared, the beautiful faery surrounded by malignant goblins. There really isn't that much original here. The only real originality is in the way Dart Thornton expresses herself (her prose IS beautiful), and the fact that she weaves faery tales into the story of her character. Otherwise, with no danger faced that she won't ultimately be rescued from (and this is a key point in that there is little she has to rescue herself from, with all salvation done by outside agencies), read the book for the faery tales scattered within, and the lovely prose.	2004-05-28
US	53032188	R3QP7UW16A4U3W	0553108034	153810577	A Clash of Kings (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 2)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Keeps you absolutely riveted, enthralled, engrossed....	Martin's first foray into the Song of Ice and Fire set the stage with a very good set of characters and a very intricate plot. However, it only gets more interesting in this second book of the series. In this book, the War brewing between the contenders for the Throne explodes, with well scripted battle scenes as well as the behind the scenes pre-battle intrigue. Off over the sea, dragons have been reborn, and magic is slowly returning to the land with sometimes comical results. To top it all off, that one underdeveloped character in Book one we all knew somehow we couldnt trust, (Theon), proves us all correct in one of the most heart-rending examples of betrayal I have ever read.<br />Characters seemingly on the sidelines in the first book come to the fore, adding their own well developed personalities and ambitions to the already tempestuous brew. Magic and Sorcery rear their (so far) ugly heads, as a mysterious female priest of the Red God enters the picture and begins to tip the scale in the early stages of the War in favor of one of the conflicts main participants. Tyrion, the deformed genius, steps to center stage, and he turns out to be a likeable rogue whose blemishes aren't all physical, but who demonstrates he has a heart and soul under all that scheming, Lannister exterior. Jon takes a bit of a back seat in the action until the end of the book, while his brothers receive more character development. Sansa, the most annoying character, stays annoying, though perhaps a little wiser.	2002-07-23
US	53032188	RRXBTILCVM9L4	0395193958	669379389	The Lord of the Rings	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Timeless Classic in Library Binding	I am going to assume that most of the readers of this review are already familiar with the story of Frodo and his travels to the dark land of Mordor, and focus primarily on the merits of this particular volume.<br />Designed to represent the &quot;Red Book of Westmarch&quot; written by Bilbo, and completed by his ward Frodo and Samwise. It is a gorgeous volume, with heavy embossed paper, the edges of which are covered in gold leaf. The red leather binding and cover might seem garish, and the volume is eye catching. The protective box fits perfectly on one's bookshelf, and one will be proud to display this impressive volume.	2002-07-23
US	53032188	R16E9M10P8DO0Y	0553579908	153810577	A Clash of Kings (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Keeps you absolutely riveted, enthralled, engrossed....	Martin's first foray into the Song of Ice and Fire set the stage with a very good set of characters and a very intricate plot. However, it only gets more interesting in this second book of the series. In this book, the War brewing between the contenders for the Throne explodes, with well scripted battle scenes as well as the behind the scenes pre-battle intrigue. Off over the sea, dragons have been reborn, and magic is slowly returning to the land with sometimes comical results. To top it all off, that one underdeveloped character in Book one we all knew somehow we couldnt trust, (Theon), proves us all correct in one of the most heart-rending examples of betrayal I have ever read.<br />Characters seemingly on the sidelines in the first book come to the fore, adding their own well developed personalities and ambitions to the already tempestuous brew. Magic and Sorcery rear their (so far) ugly heads, as a mysterious female priest of the Red God enters the picture and begins to tip the scale in the early stages of the War in favor of one of the conflicts main participants. Tyrion, the deformed genius, steps to center stage, and he turns out to be a likeable rogue whose blemishes aren't all physical, but who demonstrates he has a heart and soul under all that scheming, Lannister exterior. Jon takes a bit of a back seat in the action until the end of the book, while his brothers receive more character development. Sansa, the most annoying character, stays annoying, though perhaps a little wiser.	2002-07-23
US	53032188	R2LOFJ3EA2WCZG	0312851405	878255505	The Great Hunt (The Wheel of Time, Book 2)	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Excellent Follow-Up to Eye of the World	For those of us who have read Jordan's Wheel of Time series to date, this volume takes us back to the days when the story was fresh and new, the characters interesting and vibrant, and the story not mired in an attempt to produce an Epic and more than likely to generate massive sales revenues by stretching the conlusion out as long as possible.<br />In this installment, Rand al Thor, a boy with the power to channel the five elements and destined to go mad as a result, is resisting his destiny to become the Dragon Reborn, the savior of the world who must also \\"break\\" it. Moraine Sedai, a trained adept of the white tower with the ability to channel the \\"safe\\" (from madness, at least) female half of the power, still struggles to shape Rand into the tool she ultimately hopes will save the world. Her plan is simply to MAKE Rand the Dragon by having him fulfill various points of the prophesy of the Dragon Reborn in a purely contrived fashion. One of those is the recovery of the Horn of Valere, which will summon the archetypical heroes of legend to the aid of the one who sounds it. As an aside, Matt, the rogueish, probably least interesting character (in the early days at least) in the series has lost possession of the dagger which infected him with the dark spirit of Shadar Logoth, doomed city of the dead, and must recover it or die.	2002-07-23
US	53032188	R3BTDR7RVRHKLO	0394493141	287532791	Power!: How to Get It, How to Use It	Books	1	38	45	N	N	Dangerous and potentially disasterous advice	Since when does discourtesy equate with power? Korda's popular 80's \\"Power\\" book is filled with anecdotes and advice, seemingly nested in the premise that if people will allow you to abuse them, then you are powerful. Take for example Korda's advice to arrange for a telephone call during a lunch meeting, talk during the entirety of the meeting, then leave after the call is ended, since this proves to them how important and powerful you are. First of all, no serious executive has TIME to hold such frivolous meetings simply to prove a point. Second, while such discourtesy may make you feel empowered once, it's unlikely that you will ever be able to get those at your lunch to meet you again. Finally, as such behaviour is essentially burning bridges, one should hope that you will never require the assistance of anyone at the table in the future, since, assuming they are ever inclined to help, such abuse will ensure that they will rub whatever assistance they provide in your face. I am Southern, and was raised to believe that courtesy was a demonstration of respect to those around you. As \\"Power\\" seems to advocate discourtesy, and therefore disrespect, to those you are dealing with, I find the advice tremendously amusing, and it is very unlikely that anyone would seriously achieve results with such tactics. I also spent 2 1/2 years working on Wall Street for an LBO outfit, and 2 1/2 years in Silcon Valley with a VC firm, and can assure all readers of this review that anyone demonstrating the shallow behaviour advocated by this book would soon find himself unemployed and without a network to rely upon. Basically, this book is about seeming powerful in only the most superficial and petty ways, and less about getting power, and certainly not about keeping it. In fact, the effete, over dramatic performances this book advocates, while perhaps appropriate for a drag revue, are likely to make one a laughingstock (\\"I AM a DIVA!\\"). \\"Secrets of a Corporate Headhunter\\", by John Wareham, has an excellent chapter on \\"charisma\\", and the little chapter is worth more in informational content than the entirety of this book.	2002-07-19
US	53032188	R6584SCI22M9C	0553106635	549456361	A Storm of Swords (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 3)	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	Keeps you absolutely riveted, enthralled, engrossed....	Martin's series continues to get better and better, and that's no mean feat given the extremely good quality in his first two installments of the series. It seems everyone these days is writing \\"epic\\" fantasy, presumeably because the stories cannot be contained in one volume and enhance book sales. Martin is almost unique in that, while certainly guilty of assuring continued income by writing a six part series, he actually writes WELL, and has an ENGROSSING story to tell. There are plot twists and circumlocutions galore. <br />In this volume, we get to study the motivations of Ser Jaime, the champion of house Lannister. In what has to be one of the best written examples of turning one's preconceptions onto their head, we find out that Jaime, one of the key villains in Books 1 and 2, despite his incestuous relationship with his sister and an unfortunate tendency to inafanticide, really isnt that bad of a guy...you actually grow to kinda LIKE him. The Red God, the sinister god whose priestess uses necromancy and dark arts to defeat the enemies of the direct heir of the throne, is gradually being revealed as a vengeful god with good intentions, uniting the southern kingdoms against the threat from the North by any means necessary (VERY Old Testament, in fact). Just as we find out that Jaime isnt all bad, we also discover that some of the characters we assumed as being \\"good\\" had their despicable moments, mainly through recollections of the war against the house Targaryen and the atrocities committed by our \\"heroes\\" to ensure that the family line dies out. Just as he takes characters you initially detest and pray for comeuppance and reveals them as actually quite nice guys, he takes characters in whose mouth butter wouldnt melt and reveals them as mean spirited, despicable and thoroughly deserving of a good caning. <br />Another Martin trademark, we say \\"good-bye\\" to several key characters introduced during the first few books. The author invests a tremendous amount ofcharacter development into what become key characters, so much so that you find yourself subconsciosly assuming that these \\"friends\\" will be with you throughout the series. Martin's intent, clearly, is to make you so fond of these characters that, when they do die, most often horribly, you definitely experience an emotional response. To put it mildly, he succeeds in this very well. Im wondering who will die next ... no character is safe. The political intrigue is sufficiently byzantine to keep one enthralled, as well. <br />Finally, the book ends in one of the most heart wrenching examples of betrayal I have read to date, though you get some small measure of revenge, as well as a shock, in the epilogue. The book, while slowly adding more fantasy elements like magic and dragons, makes the fantasy elements tertiary to the story and character development. I am not alone in eagerly awaiting the fourth installment in this truly gripping series.	2002-05-25
US	53032188	R9OLTVUV6PFOL	9991521135	139333710	David St. Clair's Lessons in Instant Esp	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Phenomenal in that what it teaches works and works fast	I saw this book in a bookstore in Atlanta, Ga over 17 years ago in it's first edition. While I had not been impressed with other &quot;How to 'do' psychic stuff&quot; books, and was also under considerable parental pressure not to acquire more (being a young and &quot;impressionable&quot; teen at the time), a cursory read of the text showed what appeared to be quite simple instructions and a fascinating breadth of supposed psychic abilities covered. So, impressed, I snuck up to the counter when my Mom wasnt looking and bought it.<br />As other reviewers have noted, the most amazing fact about this book is that you start seeing results from the moment you put its techniques into practice. You will have some degree of success with everything mentioned in the book, from seeing auras to table tipping. There will be points during practice of the excercises when you make a breakthrough, and your hair will literally stand on end. <br />As one of the most easily accessible texts on psychic abilities I have ever encountered, it is indeed a shame that this text has gone out of print. Having said this, a more widespread reading of the text and practice of the excercises would no doubt make many of the &quot;extraordinary&quot; abilities listed in the book become downright commonplace. The author, and the book, are really that good!	2002-05-02
US	53032188	R23QDYL9514SR5	0131971379	139333710	David St. Clair's Lessons in Instant ESP	Books	5	34	38	N	N	Phenomenal in that what it treaches works and works fast!	I saw this book in a bookstore in Atlanta, Ga over 17 years ago in it's first edition. While I had not been impressed with other &quot;How to 'do' psychic stuff&quot; books, and was also under considerable parental pressure not to acquire more (being a young and &quot;impressionable&quot; teen at the time), a cursory read of the text showed what appeared to be quite simple instructions and a fascinating breadth of supposed psychic abilities covered. So, impressed, I snuck up to the counter when my Mom wasnt looking and bought it.<br />As other reviewers have noted, the most amazing fact about this book is that you start seeing results from the moment you put its techniques into practice. You will have some degree of success with everything mentioned in the book, from seeing auras to table tipping. There will be points during practice of the excercises when you make a breakthrough, and your hair will literally stand on end. <br />As one of the most easily accessible texts on psychic abilities I have ever encountered, it is indeed a shame that this text has gone out of print. Having said this, a more widespread reading of the text and practice of the excercises would no doubt make many of the &quot;extraordinary&quot; abilities listed in the book become downright commonplace. The author, and the book, are really that good!	2001-09-01
US	53032188	R13GF9WPB9W7BM	0563362499	919260961	Delia's Complete Cookery Course (Vol 1-3)	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Look, Ma....I can cook!	Cooking is something I have always wanted to know how to do better, but could never find an appropriate resource to show me the way. I bought this massive book in a London bookshop, and have been using it frequently ever since. While some of the terminology uses &quot;British&quot; english as opposed to &quot;American&quot;, which may have some of us running to the grocer to find out just exactly what that strange vegetable she is referring to is, the book is overwhelmingly useful and informative. Like the title says, it is a complete cookery course, and you learn more about the uses and methods of the various utensils and cookware than in any other cookbook I have seen. Granted, if you buy all of it, you need a bigger kitchen than I have just to store the pots and pans. Regardless, it's a fun as well as informative read, with practically everything you can imagine ever wanting to cook between its pages.	2001-01-16
US	53032188	R3UQRZR6XLPRNH	0886774268	749466176	Magic's Price (The Last Herald-Mage Series, Book 3)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Buy and read this!	I am not a fan of Lackey at all. I have rarely enjoyed her books, and am not particularly intrigued by the world of Valdemar. <br />However, this is a phenomenal trilogy! It was impossible for me to put any of the three down until they were completely, fully and totally consumed.<br />I bought this trilogy back in 1991, and have re-read it every year or so since. It's a profound love story, full of characters you can almost touch and feel, and definitely sympathise and relate to. Vanyel is a young boy with no latent magical abilities whatsoever, until a niaive sacrifice for his &quot;soul-mate&quot; results in a backwash making him one of the world's most powerful mages, but at a devastating price (and we're not talking just the death of his lover here, folks!).<br />For those who think this is a gay love story, you cannot be more wrong. Vanyel is an unlikely hero who just happens to be homosexual, and the casual way Lackey handles his sexual preference should be inspirational to anyone, straight or gay. Actually, the fact that Vanyel's homosexuality is such a very small and very private part of his life when compared to his other attributes and his duties leads me to think perhaps the gay community has more to learn from his example than any other segment. He's not out to prove anything, or to impress or shock anyone. He simply wants to be accepted, himself alone, and to be allowed to pursue happiness in his own private way.<br />There are some inconsistencies throughout the series, but one won't notice them unless you are particularly observant and/or frequently re-read the trilogy (which you probably will). <br />All in all, very high in my list of fantasy favorites.	2000-10-19
US	53032188	R2ST0XKCXT6O1R	0553108034	153810577	A Clash of Kings (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 2)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Getting better...now I'm &quot;only&quot; riveted!	Martin's first foray into the Song of Ice and Fire set the stage with a very good set of characters and a very intricate plot. However, it only gets more interesting in this second book of the series. In this book, the  War brewing between the contenders for the Throne explodes, with well  scripted battle scenes as well as the behind the scenes pre-battle  intrigue. Off over the sea, dragons have been reborn, and magic is slowly  returning to the land with sometimes comical results. To top it all off,  that one underdeveloped character in Book one we all knew somehow we  couldnt trust, (Theon), proves us all correct in one of the most  heart-rending examples of betrayal I have ever read.<br />Characters seemingly  on the sidelines in the first book come to the fore, adding their own well  developed personalities and ambitions to the already tempestuous brew.  Magic and Sorcery rear their (so far) ugly heads, as a mysterious female  priest of the Red God enters the picture and begins to tip the scale in the  early stages of the War in favor of one of the conflicts main participants.  Tyrion, the deformed genius, steps to center stage, and he turns out to be  a likeable rogue whose blemishes aren't all physical, but who demonstrates  he has a heart and soul under all that scheming, Lannister exterior. Jon  takes a bit of a back seat in the action until the end of the book, while  his brothers receive more character development. Sansa, the most annoying  character, stays annoying, though perhaps a little wiser.	2000-07-27
US	53032188	R2D5XZPN5RLHFT	0553372106	169123703	The Wolf of Winter	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Don't we all want to be Varis some days? &lt;g&gt;	Truly a very fun book. The overlooked son of a king is really quite a pathtic little creature...weak, slight of frame, uncoordinated and not at all athletic. What does he have going for him that his robust and stronger  brothers do not? A keen mind, an iron will and ambition, something his  peers in the pseudo Czech setting of this novel fail to notice to their  detriment and doom. Granted, the skinny kid goes a bit overboard in his  pursuit for vindication, but you can't help but like the guy in a dark,  sinister and scheming part of your soul. The mixture of necromancy and  heavy drug useage is interesting and makes plausible reading. The romantic  involvement, contrary to being Varis' Waterloo as one might conclude at the  end of the book, actually results in the salvation of his very terrible and  tainted soul. It's a classic analogy of man's descent into darkness, only  to be redeemed by the love of another. In this case, the price Varis pays  is that highly keen mind which served him so well in his pursuit of power  and revenge.	2000-07-19
US	53032188	RA9A5CZ29HXG9	0886773520	42355391	Magic's Pawn (The Last Herald-Mage Series, Book 1)	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Should be required reading for any fantasy fan.	I am not a fan of Lackey at all. I have rarely enjoyed her books, and am not particularly intrigued by the world of Valdemar. <br />However, this is a phenomenal trilogy! It was impossible for me to put any of the three down  until they were completely, fully and totally consumed.<br />I bought this  trilogy back in 1991, and have re-read it every year or so since. It's a  profound love story, full of characters you can almost touch and feel, and  definitely sympathise and relate to. Vanyel is a young boy with no latent  magical abilities whatsoever, until a niaive sacrifice for his  &quot;soul-mate&quot; results in a backwash making him one of the world's  most powerful mages, but at a devastating price (and we're not talking just  the death of his lover here, folks!).<br />For those who think this is a gay  love story, you cannot be more wrong. Vanyel is an unlikely hero who just  happens to be homosexual, and the casual way Lackey handles his sexual  preference should be inspirational to anyone, straight or gay. Actually,  the fact that Vanyel's homosexuality is such a very small and very private  part of his life when compared to his other attributes and his duties leads  me to think perhaps the gay community has more to learn from his example  than any other segment. He's not out to prove anything, or to impress or  shock anyone. He simply wants to be accepted, himself alone, and to be  allowed to pursue happiness in his own private way.<br />There are some  inconsistencies throughout the series, but one won't notice them unless you  are particularly observant and/or frequently re-read the trilogy (which you  probably will). <br />All in all, very high in my list of fantasy favorites.	2000-07-19
US	53032188	R27DGWKFPR7G1V	0886774268	749466176	Magic's Price (The Last Herald-Mage Series, Book 3)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Buy and read this!	I am not a fan of Lackey at all. I have rarely enjoyed her books, and am not particularly intrigued by the world of Valdemar. <br />However, this is a phenomenal trilogy! It was impossible for me to put any of the three down  until they were completely, fully and totally consumed.<br />I bought this  trilogy back in 1991, and have re-read it every year or so since. It's a  profound love story, full of characters you can almost touch and feel, and  definitely sympathise and relate to. Vanyel is a young boy with no latent  magical abilities whatsoever, until a niaive sacrifice for his  &quot;soul-mate&quot; results in a backwash making him one of the world's  most powerful mages, but at a devastating price (and we're not talking just  the death of his lover here, folks!).<br />For those who think this is a gay  love story, you cannot be more wrong. Vanyel is an unlikely hero who just  happens to be homosexual, and the casual way Lackey handles his sexual  preference should be inspirational to anyone, straight or gay. Actually,  the fact that Vanyel's homosexuality is such a very small and very private  part of his life when compared to his other attributes and his duties leads  me to think perhaps the gay community has more to learn from his example  than any other segment. He's not out to prove anything, or to impress or  shock anyone. He simply wants to be accepted, himself alone, and to be  allowed to pursue happiness in his own private way.<br />There are some  inconsistencies throughout the series, but one won't notice them unless you  are particularly observant and/or frequently re-read the trilogy (which you  probably will). <br />All in all, very high in my list of fantasy favorites.	2000-07-19
US	53032188	R1XD5O1WIZ7LNU	0886774012	952247332	Magic's Promise (The Last Herald-Mage Series, Book 2)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Not a Lackey fan, but loved this trilogy!	I am not a fan of Lackey at all. I have rarely enjoyed her books, and am not particularly intrigued by the world of Valdemar. <br />However, this is a phenomenal trilogy! It was impossible for me to put any of the three down  until they were completely, fully and totally consumed.<br />I bought this  trilogy back in 1991, and have re-read it every year or so since. It's a  profound love story, full of characters you can almost touch and feel, and  definitely sympathise and relate to. Vanyel is a young boy with no latent  magical abilities whatsoever, until a niaive sacrifice for his  &quot;soul-mate&quot; results in a backwash making him one of the world's  most powerful mages, but at a devastating price (and we're not talking just  the death of his lover here, folks!).<br />For those who think this is a gay  love story, you cannot be more wrong. Vanyel is an unlikely hero who just  happens to be homosexual, and the casual way Lackey handles his sexual  preference should be inspirational to anyone, straight or gay. Actually,  the fact that Vanyel's homosexuality is such a very small and very private  part of his life when compared to his other attributes and his duties leads  me to think perhaps the gay community has more to learn from his example  than any other segment. He's not out to prove anything, or to impress or  shock anyone. He simply wants to be accepted, himself alone, and to be  allowed to pursue happiness in his own private way.<br />There are some  inconsistencies throughout the series, but one won't notice them unless you  are particularly observant and/or frequently re-read the trilogy (which you  probably will). <br />All in all, very high in my list of fantasy favorites.	2000-07-19
US	53032188	R36RCFJRCISMCA	0785811931	193897558	Foundations of High Magick: The Magical Philosophy	Books	5	58	61	N	N	The most treasured in my library!	Actually, one of the three most treasured, the others being the &quot;Sword and the Serpent&quot; and &quot;Mysteria Magica&quot;, representing the (hopefully) forthcoming volumes 2 and 3 of the  &quot;Magical Philosophy&quot; series of which this is the first.<br />Almost  everything concievable is explained thoroughly in these books, and the  first volume is perhaps the most illuminating. Unlike other texts which  simply say &quot;this is so&quot;, Denning and Phillips literally walk you  through the reasons behind various magical correspondences on the Tree of  Life (the theories presented here are basically Kabalistic ones, with just  a light amount of Enochian). Ever wonder why the astrological signs are  associated with certain paths on the Tree, and certian Tarot cards  associated with the signs/paths, as well? Denning and Phillips lay it out  for you, step by step, so that you come away with an understanding that  won't fade as time goes by.<br />When I first purchased these volumes back in  1991, I had almost no background in magick whatsoever. While the latter two  volumes may indeed be a bit advanced, the first should be required reading  for any magickal study (or even a simple mystical study of the Tree of  Life). By the end of the first volume, the latter two will no longer be out  of the reach of your comprehension.<br />Highly, highly recommended works. For  that matter, everything by either author meets a similarly high standard.  If it's by Denning and Phillips, read it!	2000-07-19
US	53032188	R3N1F89PUQUPTS	0553573403	268067011	A Game of Thrones (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Epic...better be as there are five more coming &lt;g&gt;	This is a stellar start to the series by the author. The story unfolds with each chapter varying perspective between the various characters (and it takes some getting used to), but you cannot put it down. The emphasis  here is on the intrigue, and not magic(though later books promise gradually  more of the latter). Obviously heavily drawn from incidents in our own  world's middle-ages, the death of a debauched king turns a unified kingdom  into a collection of petty states and civil war. By the end of the first  book, one wonders how it will be possible to pull all of the various states  together into a single empire again. Character development is first rate,  and the plot line(s) are well thought out. There are at least five major  plot lines running simultaneously just in Book 1, and Martin does a stellar  job at keeping you not only interested in each, but of making sure you dont  forget the action in a particular plot line thus far, despite several  intervening chapters.	2000-07-17
US	53032188	RJCBDARD4YLHS	0395595118	669379389	The Lord of the Rings	Books	5	1	3	N	N	How do you improve a timeless classic?	Add illustrations by Alan Lee, co-illustrator of Faeries with Brian Froud. Truly stunning artwork. With this first edition including Lee's artwork, one should buy the volume for the collectibility value alone. Unforgetable  artwork to accompany an unforgetable story of the most unlikely heroes!	2000-07-17
US	53032188	R3O81J6OVP4QN5	055357339X	354609409	Assassin's Apprentice (The Farseer Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Farseer Trilogy, Book 1	Fitz is the illegitimate son of the Prince Chivalry, heir to the throne of the Six Duchies. He is brought to the royal court as a small boy after being cast off by his mother's family and is raised in the royal court by his father's stableman, Burrich. He is treated well by the palace folk as long as he avoids too much notice, but when his grandfather, King Shrewd, decides to have Fitz taught the skills and subterfuge of an assassin, he becomes a liability for those who have their own ambitions.  Fitz has, as a result of the mix his islander royal blood and his inland common blood, a unique combination of the magic \\"Skill\\", the ability to manipulate and control the minds of men, and the dangerous \\"Wit.\\", the same for animals. The terrible Red Ship Raiders terrorize the coastline and \\"Forge\\" the people of the Six Duchies, turning them into soulless half-beasts in human form. Teenage Fitz is drafted to take a covert role in protecting his country.    As he prepares to take on the unpleasant tasks of an assassin and face his dangerous mission to the Mountain Kingdom, he goes from being an annoyance to a direct threat  to the enemies of the Farseer throne. Fitz and his allies attempt to protect the Kingdom against the apparently traitorous Prince Regal, and uncover others who they believe their allies have intrigues of their own.    This is the tale of FitzChivalry Farseer. The discovery that this illegitimate son exists is enough to topple Prince Chivalry's ambition for the throne. He abdicates, ceding the title of heir to the throne to his younger brother Verity and abandoning the child to the care of the stable master Burrich. The youngest prince, Regal, has ambitions of his own, and wishes to do away with the illegitimate FitzChivalry. But old King Shrewd sees the value of taking the lad and training him as an assassin. For an illegitimate royal can be sent into dangers where a trueborn son could not be risked, and may be given tasks that would soil an heir's hands.And so FitzChivalry is trained in the secret arts of being a royal assassin. He shows a predilection for the Wit, a beast magic much despised in the Six Duchies. This secret vice in the young assassin is tolerated, for a partnership with an animal may be a useful trait in an assassin. When it is discovered that he may possess the hereditary magic of the Farseers, the Skill, he becomes both the King's weapon, and an obstacle to Prince Regal's ambitions for the throne. At a time when the rivalry for the throne is intense, and the Outislanders and their Red Ship raiders are bringing war to the Six Duchies, FitzChivalry discovers that the fate of the kingdom may very well rest on the actions of a young illegitimate heir and the King's Fool. Armed with little more than loyalty and his sporadic talent for the old magic, Fitz follows the fading trail of King Verity who has traveled beyond the Mountain Kingdom and into the realm of the legendary Elderlings in what may be a vain hope to renew an old alliance.    Robin Hobb's first series introduces us to the Farseer line of Kings, and a well detailed and scripted world of dragons and magic. In Hobb's world, magic is the power of the mind, and sorcerers come in two varieties: those with Skill magic, to influence the minds of men, and those of Wit magic, who do the same with beasts.	2000-07-17
US	53032188	R1844W1QW4M7JX	0553565699	463185109	Assassin's Quest (The Farseer Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Farseer Trilogy, Book 3	Regal has murdered the king, his father,  and Fitz, his illegitimate cousin. Using an almost unknown, and certainly forbidden, power of the Wit, Fitz has preserved his soul within Nighteyes, his wolf companion, and is eventually reunited with his body by Chade, spymaster, and Burrich, his only true ally. Now, more than anything, he wants revenge on Regal, the murderer of the King, who has deserted Buckkeep and abandoned the coastline to the Raiders and moved to his inland palace in opulence and sybaritic comfort.    King (now) Verity is missing, believed dead. However, Fitz receives a Skill command to go to the Mountain Kingdom in search of the new King. With Nighteyes, Queen Kettricken and the Fool, Fitz makes his way to the Mountain Kingdom, relying on the Skill, and the talents of his allies,  to survive. There, they encounter King Verity, and part of the secret of the Elderlings - the possible salvation of the kingdom, but at an awful price.    This is the tale of FitzChivalry Farseer. The discovery that this illegitimate son exists is enough to topple Prince Chivalry's ambition for the throne. He abdicates, ceding the title of heir to the throne to his younger brother Verity and abandoning the child to the care of the stable master Burrich. The youngest prince, Regal, has ambitions of his own, and wishes to do away with the illegitimate FitzChivalry. But old King Shrewd sees the value of taking the lad and training him as an assassin. For an illegitimate royal can be sent into dangers where a trueborn son could not be risked, and may be given tasks that would soil an heir's hands.     And so FitzChivalry is trained in the secret arts of being a royal assassin. He shows a predilection for the Wit, a beast magic much despised in the Six Duchies. This secret vice in the young assassin is tolerated, for a partnership with an animal may be a useful trait in an assassin. When it is discovered that he may possess the hereditary magic of the Farseers, the Skill, he becomes both the King's weapon, and an obstacle to Prince Regal's ambitions for the throne. At a time when the rivalry for the throne is intense, and the Outislanders and their Red Ship raiders are bringing war to the Six Duchies, FitzChivalry discovers that the fate of the kingdom may very well rest on the actions of a young illegitimate heir and the King's Fool. Armed with little more than loyalty and his sporadic talent for the old magic, Fitz follows the fading trail of King Verity who has traveled beyond the Mountain Kingdom and into the realm of the legendary Elderlings in what may be a vain hope to renew an old alliance.     Robin Hobb's first series introduces us to the Farseer line of Kings, and a well detailed and scripted world of dragons and magic. In Hobb's world, magic is the power of the mind, and sorcerers come in two varieties: those with Skill magic, to influence the minds of men, and those of Wit magic, who do the same with beasts.	2000-07-17
US	53032188	R3J7HCK1S67LVO	0553573411	675959125	Royal Assassin (The Farseer Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Farseer Trilogy, Book 2	Fitz has remained in Jhaampe in the Mountain Kingdom, recovering from the attempts on his life by his uncle, Prince Regal. In a dream of King Shrewd , he sees the suffering of the old king, as well as his beloved Molly about to be killed by the Red Ship Raiders. Fitz and Burrich return to Buckkeep, where Fitz find new challenges, new trials and new, albeit temporary, happiness.    Fitz and allies struggle to save the Six Duchies its enemies, as Regal plots to undermine Verity in a coup. Fitz becomes Prince Verity's agent in the field, being sent on missions to hold back the Red Ship Raiders. However, despite his best efforts, the Raiders grow stronger and bolder. Verity, who decides that the only hope for his kingdom is to go in search of the legendary Elderlings, mysterious semi-mythical sorcerers of the prehistory of the kingdom, sets out on a perilous quest to the far side of the Mountain kingdom. Fitz remains behind to secure the ailing throne, but quickly becomes embroiled in intrigues, one of which is to place him upon the throne.    This is the tale of FitzChivalry Farseer. The discovery that this illegitimate son exists is enough to topple Prince Chivalry's ambition for the throne. He abdicates, ceding the title of heir to the throne to his younger brother Verity and abandoning the child to the care of the stable master Burrich. The youngest prince, Regal, has ambitions of his own, and wishes to do away with the illegitimate FitzChivalry. But old King Shrewd sees the value of taking the lad and training him as an assassin. For an illegitimate royal can be sent into dangers where a trueborn son could not be risked, and may be given tasks that would soil an heir's hands.     And so FitzChivalry is trained in the secret arts of being a royal assassin. He shows a predilection for the Wit, a beast magic much despised in the Six Duchies. This secret vice in the young assassin is tolerated, for a partnership with an animal may be a useful trait in an assassin. Whenit is discovered that he may possess the hereditary magic of the Farseers, the Skill, he becomes both the King's weapon, and an obstacle to Prince Regal's ambitions for the throne. At a time when the rivalry for the throne is intense, and the Outislanders and their Red Ship raiders are bringing war to the Six Duchies, FitzChivalry discovers that the fate of the kingdom may very well rest on the actions of a young illegitimate heir and the King's Fool. Armed with little more than loyalty and his sporadic talent for the old magic, Fitz follows the fading trail of King Verity who has traveled beyond the Mountain Kingdom and into the realm of the legendary Elderlings in what may be a vain hope to renew an old alliance.     Robin Hobb's first series introduces us to the Farseer line of Kings, and a well detailed and scripted world of dragons and magic. In Hobb's world, magic is the power of the mind, and sorcerers come in two varieties: those with Skill magic, to influence the minds of men, and those of Wit magic, who do the same with beasts.	2000-07-17
US	53032188	R33CPL4ZZL32B4	0395873460	669379389	The Hobbit	Books	5	0	0	N	N	How do you improve a timeless classic?	Add illustrations by Alan Lee, co-illustrator of Faeries with Brian Froud. Truly stunning artwork. With this first edition including Lee's artwork, one should buy the volume for the collectibility value alone. Unforgetable  artwork to accompany an unforgetable story of an unlikely hero!	2000-07-17
US	53032188	R2JPMJOW2YMCDU	0271017511	622880076	Forbidden Rites: A Necromancers Manual of the Fifteenth Century (Magic in History)	Books	5	67	70	N	Y	Truly the Best of the Series	I consistently maintain an up to date collection of the Magic in History series, which I consider to be top notch for the occultist wishing to peruse past traditions. The series is as important for one's bookshelf and  reading as Agrippa's Occult Philosophy series, in my opinion, or the Key of  Solomon.  However, unlike the two mentioned, most books in the series are  historical suveys of theory and less practical (aka: grimoires). This  particular text, however, is the exception, and is therefore by far my  favorite. The book begins with summaries, in english, of various key  experiments and practices outlined in the ritual handbook, followed by a  full text, in Latin, of the manuscript. At the very end of the book are  copies of the pages of the text itself. The manuscript is a bit of an  enigma, in that the first two sections of it are missing, its authorship  and ownership is uncertain, and even its date of origin cannot be verified.  However, given the overlap between Agrippa's masterwork, one can see  variations on magickal theory of the 15th and 16th centuries. While Agrippa  dealt mostly with high magick, this manual, mislabeled necromancy, tends to  stray into what is truly black arts. What is truly fascinating is that the  fundamental theory and, indeed, basic practice of both the  &quot;divine&quot; and &quot;infernal&quot; arts remain relatively  constant, despite supposedly different sources of influence. To the modern  occultist, this is a given. However, in the context of the period at which  this text was supposedly written, this insight is profound and surprising.  It strongly supports my personal belief that the concept of &quot;God&quot;  and &quot;Devil&quot; are literally two perceptions of the same entity, and  are only divided in the fragile and limited human psyche.	2000-06-05
US	53032188	R1EOCFEOUGQUH2	0915179237	835001491	Physical Interrogation Techniques	Books	3	3	4	N	Y	Thoroughly informative and enjoyable for it's sadistic value	Limited in it's practical use, however, except to shock people who peruse your bookshelf. Unless, that is, one happens to live in certain African, Asian and Central/South American countries, or belongs to some  para-military group. Presented in pseudo-technical style (like a PBS  publication on how to cause extreme physical pain, except with some rather  vulgar language in parts), you still cannot help but fail to take the book  seriously. While the techniques certainly would be effective if put to  practical use, it is hard to imagine one ever finding oneself in a position  to do so (thankfully). Frankly, I was surprised to find this title sold  through Amazon. It is certainly not for the faint of heart, and there were  even sections which made my usually rigid stomach turn over.	1999-10-03
US	53032188	R2HWJNX1UQM9LN	0886778131	65884366	The Burning Stone (Crown of Stars, Vol. 3)	Books	4	8	9	N	Y	More, please.....	An uncertain and uneasy peace has fallen on the kingdom of Wendar, but at the court of King Henry the various factions still jockey relentlessly and ruthlessly for position.  It seems that the king's favor has fallen upon Prince Sanglant, his [...]son, and that he is to be the chosen heir.  But Sanglant is too troubled by the recent past to seek that crown.  He needs time to recover and, most of all, he needs Liath, the woman who saved him from his terrible captivity - even though such a liaison must incur his father's implacable wrath. Liath, born with a dangerous power beyond her understanding or ability to control, is torn between her longing for Sanglant and the child they are about to have and the call of sorcery, which can open the way into the land of the Aoi, the Lost Ones.  She has also learned that her mother, a powerful practitioner of the banned sorcerous arts, is not dead, as she always thought, and is seeking her to school her in the same arts. And Alain, their friend and ally, although happily restored to the bosom of his family and married to the saintly Tallia, is in mortal danger from the curse of Bloodheart, who is reaching out from the grave. As the fates of kingdoms shift with the changing fortunes of those caught up in the dangers of both civil war and continuing attacks by the nonhuman Eika and the Quman invaders, time is running out for Liath, Sanglant, King Henry, and the people of Wendar and Varre.     It has been quite a while since I read a series and thought \\"damn, it's over!\\" at the end. The author has built a vast number of interesting characters but, despite the number, one is able to know and  relate to each. Each of the characters has their own remarkable flaws and  imperfections, and you actaully have opportunities to sympathize with each  throughout the series (even the remarkably \\"evil\\" ones you think  you would never agree with). Unlike the Robert Jordan WoT series which  seems to go on and on and on without resolution, Elliot has squeezed a  sweeping epic into a (mere) 7 books, and I found myself disappointed when I  finished the last of the third book. Fortunately, there are enough open  issues, unanswered questions and unresolved conflicts in the end that  Elliot could forseeably write another series to \\"fill in the  blanks\\". I, for one, sincerely hope to see more from this author in  the very near future.	1999-09-30
US	53032188	R1P79G0472KZTB	0886778166	484511612	Prince of Dogs (Crown of Stars, Vol 2)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Epic tale	Sanglant, the prince of dogs and King Henry's [...] son, is being held captive in the city of Gent by Bloodheart, the Eika warlord. Liath, now one of the King's Eagles and still grieving over the loss of Sanglant, is desperately trying to unlock the secrets of her own past. Alain, proclaimed a Count's heir, is increasingly troubled by visions of the enemy he befriended and the Lady of Battles whom he's sworn to serve. And Fifth Son, least favored son of Bloodheart, has returned to the lands of his own people to unite the scattered tribes and build an army to do his father's bidding. While King Henry continues his progress through a troubled realm, Sanglant, Liath, Alain, and Fifth Son fight their own individual battles.  Only time will tell who will prove triumphant as all of them are caught up in the dangers and turmoil of a world at war . . . .     It has been quite a while since I read a series and thought \\"damn, it's over!\\" at the end. The author has built a vast number of interesting characters but, despite the number, one is able to know and  relate to each. Each of the characters has their own remarkable flaws and  imperfections, and you actaully have opportunities to sympathize with each  throughout the series (even the remarkably \\"evil\\" ones you think  you would never agree with). Unlike the Robert Jordan WoT series which  seems to go on and on and on without resolution, Elliot has squeezed a  sweeping epic into a (mere) 7 books, and I found myself disappointed when I  finished the last of the third book. Fortunately, there are enough open  issues, unanswered questions and unresolved conflicts in the end that  Elliot could forseeably write another series to \\"fill in the  blanks\\". I, for one, sincerely hope to see more from this author in  the very near future.	1999-09-30
US	53032188	RAMJDJDW7SB0K	0886777712	19897430	King's Dragon (Crown of Stars, Vol. 1)	Books	4	20	21	N	Y	Epic	The Kingdom of Wendar is in turmoil. King Henry still holds the crown, but his reign has long been contested by his sister Sabella.  There are many eager to flock to her banner, whether from belief in her cause or the hope of personal gain.  Internal conflict weakens Wendar's defenses, drawing raiders, human and inhuman, across its borders.  Terrifying portents abound and dark spirits walk the land in broad daylight. Two innocents are to be thrust into the midst of the conflict  - Alain, a young man granted a vision granted by the Lady of Battles, and Liath, a young woman with the power to change the course of history.  Both must discover the truth about themselves before they can accept their fate. For in a war where sorcery, not swords, may determine the final outcome, the price of failure may be more than their own lives.     It has been quite a while since I read a series and thought \\"damn, it's over!\\" at the end. The author has built a vast number of interesting characters but, despite the number, one is able to know and  relate to each. Each of the characters has their own remarkable flaws and  imperfections, and you actaully have opportunities to sympathize with each  throughout the series (even the remarkably \\"evil\\" ones you think  you would never agree with). Unlike the Robert Jordan WoT series which  seems to go on and on and on without resolution, Elliot has squeezed a  sweeping epic into a (mere) 7 books, and I found myself disappointed when I  finished the last of the third book. Fortunately, there are enough open  issues, unanswered questions and unresolved conflicts in the end that  Elliot could forseeably write another series to \\"fill in the  blanks\\". I, for one, sincerely hope to see more from this author in  the very near future.	1999-09-30
