US	53033212	RYT7ZU7EW8JF3	1932394354	679821634	Spring in Action	Books	5	13	16	N	N	The BEST Spring tutorial out there	To me, the ultimate compliment I can offer a book or an author is that I wish I had written this book. Spring in Action is just an incredibly well written book that does a great job of giving its reader a great introduction to Spring and all the facets that make it such a great framework and container. I wish I had written this book or I wish I could write this well.<br /><br />The authors have really done a great job in explaining every little detail about Spring where you really get the feeling that you really know Spring after reading this book. Unlike code-specific books, this book doesn't overwhelm you with code. Don't get me wrong - there is more that enough code in the book and a snippet of code typically follows after detailed explanation of a particular concept. Spring Live on the other hand takes a code driven approach where you learn Spring by actually writing code. I also happen to love Spring Live but I prefer Spring in Action as I want to really understand what is going on under the covers and all the concepts rather than just learning how to write Spring code. I'm vastly oversimplifying Spring Live as it is also a pretty nice book, but I hope you get the analogy I am trying to make here.<br /><br />Spring in Action starts off with an introduction to Spring, beans and the bean factory. Having used Spring for more than a year, I assumed I really knew all the ins and outs of wiring beans and I learned quite a lot in the first 3 chapters. I really love the writing style and the humor sprinkled in throughout the book makes this a really easy read. I've already re-read this book several times and I just re-read it again while flying from Miami to Chicago, thanks to the 2 hour early arrival. The writing just flows and the clear explanation as it moves from AOP to Data Access, Transactions.<br /><br />I also wanted to make an explicit comment about the chapter on Spring's AOP framework. This chapter does a great job in explaining Spring's AOP framework and where appropriate, points out differences with AspectJ and other AOP frameworks. Having used AspectJ and AspectWerz before, I found it very easy to pick up the AOP framework in Spring. Besides, when you can use The Simpsons in a programming exercise, it can't be that bad, right?<br /><br />If you are looking for a great Spring book, do yourself a favor and pick up Spring in Action. You will not be disappointed. There are quite a few Spring titles out there and there are good and bad among them. There is a typical rush to the market from the book publishers and there are a lot of average-to-poor books out there. If you really want to learn and use Spring, pick up this book now.and where appropriate, points out differences with AspectJ and other AOP frameworks. Having used AspectJ and AspectWerz before, I found it very easy to pick up the AOP framework in Spring. Besides, when you can use The Simpsons in a programming exercise, it can't be that bad, right? <br /> <br />If you are looking for a great Spring book, do yourself a favor and pick up Spring in Action. You will not be disappointed. There are quite a few Spring titles out there and there are good and bad among them. There is a typical rush to the market from the book publishers and there are a lot of average-to-poor books out there. If you really want to learn and use Spring, pick up this book now.	2005-05-31
US	53033212	RGZ21J2Y429GX	0764558315	937326582	Expert One-on-One J2EE Development without EJB	Books	5	71	72	N	N	A great book that is a must-read for every developer/archite	I've read this book several times since the day it shipped and I have to say that this is an excellent book for anyone working as a developer or architect working in the Enterprise Java arena. I absolutely love this book given my bias - I guess I should start by stating my bias. EJB bashing is a favorite past time of a lot of people. I happen to love EJB's, with the exception of entity beans and think EJB's are a great way to create software solutions are remotable, loosely coupled and powerful. I will agree that EJB's are way too complicated with all the stupid artifacts that you need to create to create and deploy an EJB. Having worked with EJB's since 1999, I guess I am so used to all of nuances of EJB's, I can write up deployment descriptors in my sleep. Having said that, I approached this book with a little apprehension as I hate these EJB-sucks book that don't really offer any intelligent discussion about the shortcomings of EJB nor do they offer a viable alternative. Another assumption I brought to the book was that this was just a Spring book with a little EJB bashing thrown in for good measure.<br /><br />To my pleasant surprise, Rod Johnson and Juergen Hoeller have written an awesome book. This book does not take cheap shots - Instead there is a intelligent, thought provoking discussion about the pros and cons of EJB. In fact, the first 120 pages (Chapter 1-5) are just a great breakdown of application architecture with a through treatment of EJB. I loved this section and re-read it several times and I found myself agreeing with pretty much everything in this section. I would equate this to a great meaningful discussion you would have with someone who really understood application architecture and development and you could debate the pros and cons of the many alternative approaches that exist today.<br /><br />Chapter 6 starts the discussion of Lightweight Containers and the idea of Inversion of Control (IoC). This is not a chapter on Spring; rather it is an overview of Inversion of Control and strategies like Dependency Injection in the context of Spring and PicoContainer.<br /><br />The next chapter offers a quick introduction to the Spring Framework. As everyone already knows, the Spring Framework is a very popular open source application framework created by Rod Johnson. The co-author Juergen Hoeller is another lead developer of Spring. The chapter is Spring is fairly light and people hoping for a in-depth Spring tutorial will be disappointed. Instead this chapter offers a rather high-level overview that will get you some basic understanding of the Spring Framework. I guess it's hard to cover Spring in 43 pages.<br /><br />After the cursory introduction to Spring, the book moves into Aspect-Orientated programming (AOP) concepts. This section starts with a very introduction to AOP before jumping into AOP implementation strategies. After a brief discussion of AspectJ, AspectWerkz, and JBoss AOP, the authors move into SpringAOP. After AOP, the books moves into Transaction Management where current J2EE approaches are discussed and then contrasted with the Spring approach.<br /><br />Review trimmed to comply with Amazon's review guildlines for length.  For more details, check my blog at j2eegeek dot com.t is an overview of Inversion of Control and strategies like Dependency Injection in the context of Spring and PicoContainer.  <br /> <br />The next chapter offers a quick introduction to the Spring Framework. As everyone already knows, the Spring Framework is a very popular open source application framework created by Rod Johnson. The co-author Juergen Hoeller is another lead developer of Spring. The chapter is Spring is fairly light and people hoping for a in-depth Spring tutorial will be disappointed. Instead this chapter offers a rather high-level overview that will get you some basic understanding of the Spring Framework. I guess it's hard to cover Spring in 43 pages.   <br /> <br />After the cursory introduction to Spring, the book moves into Aspect-Orientated programming (AOP) concepts. This section starts with a very introduction to AOP before jumping into AOP implementation strategies. After a brief discussion of AspectJ, AspectWerkz, and JBoss AOP, the authors move into SpringAOP. After AOP, the books moves into Transaction Management where current J2EE approaches are discussed and then contrasted with the Spring approach.  <br /> <br />Review trimmed to comply with Amazon's review guildlines for length.  For more details, check my blog at j2eegeek dot com.	2004-11-28
US	53033212	R2O3YBT4Y7DW77	0596006969	582391878	Hibernate: A Developer's Notebook	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The BEST first book on Hibernate	Hibernate: A Developer's Notebook is the first in the new Developer's Notebook series from O'Reilly. The Developer's Notebook series is a new line of books from O'Reilly that are concise, lab-style guides that have plenty of examples and emphasize practice over theory. For being the first one, O'Reilly has hit a home run with this book.<br />Hibernate is a lightweight, high performance object/relational persistence and query service for Java. Hibernate allows you to work easily and efficiently with information from a relational database in the form of natural Java objects following common Java idiom - including association, inheritance, polymorphism, composition and the Java collections framework<br />Written by James Elliott, Hibernate: A Developer's Notebook is an excellent must-own book for anyone interesting in learning more about Hibernate. James does a great job in explaining the topic at hand in a clear and concise manner. All the concepts are explained via examples, which make it easy to follow and learn.<br />Staring with installation and the setup of your development environment, the book walks you through examples where you build on a small application as you progress through the book learning the subtleties and nuances of Hibernate. This book is extremely readable and is small enough to read cover to cover in a day. My pattern for reading technical books involves reading (or skimming) the book cover to cover before doing a deep dive and working through all the code examples. I found the examples easy to follow and they did a great job in building on the concepts of Hibernate.<br />I know that Hibernate founder Gavin King and Christian Bauer, a member of the core Hibernate developer team have just finished their new book Hibernate in Action due to ship in August 2004. I am really looking forward to that book and have pre-ordered that book. Having said that, I still highly recommend this O'Reilly book.<br />I had read a couple of articles on Hibernate and had played with some simple examples but this book gave me all the knowledge and tools to start using Hibernate in a real application. This is a really well written, concise guide to Hibernate and well worth the purchase price. I highly recommend this book to anyone wanting to learn more about Hibernate and is a great first Hibernate book.had played with some simple examples but this book gave me all the knowledge and tools to start using Hibernate in a real application. This is a really well written, concise guide to Hibernate and well worth the purchase price. I highly recommend this book to anyone wanting to learn more about Hibernate and is a great first Hibernate book.	2004-07-01
US	53033212	R39M79NFK74UZY	0735712018	50666649	Designing With Web Standards	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Great web design and usability book	'Designing with Web Standards' by Jeffrey Zeldman is a book about the use of standards in creating websites. Jeffrey Zeldman is a very well known web designer that manages the several very popular design websites. He also co-founded the Web Standards Project to persuade browser makers to comply with standards. I've been creating websites using HMTL since the early 90's and wanted to learn more about CSS, XHTML and so I picked up this book.<br />This is not your traditional tutorial book - In fact, a majority of the book is spent discussing the topic of standards, which gives this book an almost academic feel. In spite of that, I still really like this book and found this book extremely helpful is designing standards compliant websites.<br />In particular, the chapter on XHTML is well written and does a great job in explaining everything from DOCTYPE, HTML tags case, closing tags, empty tags and encoding valid XML tags such as &lt; &gt; and &amp;. The chapter on structure combines CSS and XHTML to provide a complete solution for websites. I had used DIV's before but never really understood how and what they were and what was the difference between id and class. After reading this chapter, I feel like I have a very good understanding on the principles of layout and CSS.<br />I love all the examples in the book, especially in the latter part of the book where you work through different layouts using the technologies you just learned about. I also love the section of the book that lays out and documents all the deficiencies and bugs of existing browsers and how to work around those issues.<br />If you want to create websites that work in every browser, load quickly, consume less bandwidth and still be visually and functionally attractive, you need this book.	2004-05-09
US	53033212	R18B1WFSX18KLN	059600432X	944716083	WebLogic: The Definitive Guide	Books	5	14	17	N	N	The BEST WebLogic book in the market	WebLogic: The Definitive Guide published by O'Reilly has to be the best WebLogic book in the market today.<br />The book starts off with a nice introduction to Web application in the context of WebLogic including discussion of WebLogic specific descriptors. Everything you need to create production-ready application including HTTP Session replication, clustering HTTP sessions using in-memory replication, HttpClusterServlet and SSL is discussed in here in a very clear and concise manner. There is also a section that describes how to setup an Apache webserver to front a cluster of WebLogic servers. This section also includes a great section on security and using security in your application.<br />The next chapter in the book discusses JNDI in great detail. I re-read this chapter several times and just love the treatment this topic was given. There were things in there that I have learned over the last 5 years of using WebLogic, which made me wish I had this book in 1999. There is clear and in-depth explanation of JDNI, binding object to JNDI, RMI, and RMI over IIOP, and many other JNDI best practices.<br />After JNDI, the book moves on to JDBC and this chapter provides a very comprehensive tutorial on how to use JDBC and database in the context of WebLogic. The discussion includes connection pools, multipools, and Data Sources. My favorite part of this chapter was the detailed section on all of the connection pool configuration parameters. WebLogic's JDBC sub-system is incredibly powerful but the WebLogic console or help doesn't do a good job of explaining all of the features and settings and it's nice to have a complete guide to all of the configuration parameters. The chapter also includes discussion on using Java Data Sources in context of a transaction and javax.transaction.UserTransaction.<br />The JDBC chapter also includes a section on Rowsets. Rowsets were introduced in JDBC 2.0 and the Rowset interface extends the java.sql.ResultSet interface. There is Java code on how to use Rowsets including creating, populating, and manipulating Rowsets along with transactions and disconnected Rowsets. There is also discussion on the different optimistic concurrency schemes.<br />After JDBC, the book moves onto transactions and the Java Transaction API (JTA) and how to use them in context of JDBC transactions (XA and non-XA), distributed transactions, and EJB transactions. Very nicely written chapter and anyone needing to understand how to build and deploy applications that use JTA will find everything they need here. The next chapter deals with Java Connector Architecture (JCA) and I basically skimmed this chapter. I don't have a lot of experience with JCA but this chapter looks good.<br />The next chapter deals with the topic of the Java Messaging Service or JMS. This is also one of those chapters that I re-read several times and I love the way it is written. This is very comprehensive chapter and I won't list out all the contents but I have to highlight the section on clustered JMS. There is a brief mention of Message-driven Beans (MDBs) in this section but detailed treatment is in the EJB section.<br />The next section of the book deals with Enterprise Java Beans or EJBs. The chapter starts off with a quick tutorial of Cedric's EJBGen. From EJBGen, you move into discussion of the now deprecated ejbc (WebLogic EJB compiler) and the newer appc class for compiling EJBs. After a brief discussion of transactions, we move into configuration aspects including pooling of stateless and stateful EJBs. The issue of concurrency with entity beans is also discussed here along with some good concurrency strategy. The issue of clustering and failover of stateful and stateless EJBs is also discussed here. The EJB section continues and includes topics like CMP 2.0 and EJB QL. If you are new to CMP or Entity Beans, you will really benefit from this chapter as it includes an in-depth look and all of the issues involved in CMP including Container-Managed relationships, cascading deletes, caching, EJB QL and WebLogic specific extensions to EJB QL.<br />The next chapter deals with packaging and deployment of applications to the WebLogic server. After a quick decision of the deployer tool, the section describes all the features available for application deployment including the idea of staging applications and auto deployment. I really like the section that describes WebLogic's custom classloaders and how class loading works in EAR files. This is usually a very confusing topic and people new to J2EE or EAR files will spend a lot of time trying to figure out classpath issues.<br />After deployment, the book moves on to install and creation of WebLogic domains. This section is useful for the developer, but really necessary for the WebLogic admin that is going to manage the production environments. WebLogic is the best application server out there and with all the features comes complexity. There are a lot of options in setting up managed, admin servers, node manager and this chapter does a great job of articulating all of the options and highlighting some of the best-practices in WebLogic software install.<br />The next section deals with clustering, load balancing and failover and how to achieve high-availability for your application. There is great discussion on how to setup a cluster with multiple configurations including splitting web and object tier across clusters and co-locating web/object tier (my preferred option) in the same cluster.<br />Note - I had to trim this review to comply with Amazon's requirements.  See my blog for the complete review.<br />In closing, this is a great book for developers, architects and system or network administrators that work with WebLogic. I think this is a must-own book and fills in all of the gaps that are left with WebLogic's online documentation. I would highly recommend this book to anyone working with WebLogic in any capacity. You are guaranteed to learn something new every time you crack open this book. Run, don't walk and buy this book.ged relationships, cascading deletes, caching, EJB QL and WebLogic specific extensions to EJB QL.<br />The next chapter deals with packaging and deployment of applications to the WebLogic server. After a quick decision of the deployer tool, the section describes all the features available for application deployment including the idea of staging applications and auto deployment. I really like the section that describes WebLogic's custom classloaders and how class loading works in EAR files. This is usually a very confusing topic and people new to J2EE or EAR files will spend a lot of time trying to figure out classpath issues.<br />After deployment, the book moves on to install and creation of WebLogic domains. This section is useful for the developer, but really necessary for the WebLogic admin that is going to manage the production environments. WebLogic is the best application server out there and with all the features comes complexity. There are a lot of options in setting up managed, admin servers, node manager and this chapter does a great job of articulating all of the options and highlighting some of the best-practices in WebLogic software install.<br />The next section deals with clustering, load balancing and failover and how to achieve high-availability for your application. There is great discussion on how to setup a cluster with multiple configurations including splitting web and object tier across clusters and co-locating web/object tier (my preferred option) in the same cluster.<br />Note - I had to trim this review to comply with Amazon's requirements.  See my blog for the complete review.<br />In closing, this is a great book for developers, architects and system or network administrators that work with WebLogic. I think this is a must-own book and fills in all of the gaps that are left with WebLogic's online documentation. I would highly recommend this book to anyone working with WebLogic in any capacity. You are guaranteed to learn something new every time you crack open this book. Run, don't walk and buy this book.	2004-05-04
US	53033212	R1NREUBJHIMUMA	0321118898	741230462	Enterprise Java¿ Security: Building Secure J2EE¿ Applications	Books	5	8	9	N	N	The BEST book on Java/J2EE security	The book starts off with an overview of Java and security landscape with quick introductions to things like Java Cryptography Architecture (JCA), Java Cryptography Extension (JCE), Java Authentication and Authorization Service (JAAS), Java Secure Socket Extension (JSSE) and PKI.  This chapter does a great job of introducing all of the security features in the Java platform and how they fit in the standard application development framework.  There is a really nice picture on page 9 that sums up all of the security providers, services and components and how they fit together in J2SE and J2EE.  After the introduction, the book moves into a discussion about firewall and some network architecture discussion.<br />The second section (Chapter 3) of the book deals with J2EE security model.  This section starts with a quick intro the J2EE components before moving into a discussion of the J2EE security roles and authorization model.  After a quick example of using declarative security with EJB's, the authors then discuss authentication in the realm of HTTP and web applications with a quick intro to basic, form and certificate based authentication.  The authors recommend the use of declarative security over programmatic security as a best-practice.  I have to agree with that assessment and recommendation completely.  But there are instances where declarative security is not possible and you have to resort to programmatic security.  The chapter shows some simple code example to validate security role of a user in an EJB, and fetching user information in a web application.<br />The next section of the book deals with JavaServer Pages (JSP) and Servlet security.  The section starts with a quick intro of Servlets, Servlet life cycle, before moving into the authentication section.  At first, the simple HTTP authentication mechanism is explained with a nice breakdown of the HTTP status code sent from the server to the browser along with a description of how the username and password are encoded on the client side.  I really like the way this section was written as it didn't leave any ambiguity in how the process works.  After basic authentication, we move on to Form-based authentication which is explained very simply along with the appropriate snippet that belongs in your web.xml file. Once again, the explanation and graphic does a great job of breaking down the authentication process down to the http communication between the browser and server.  This section also briefly describes certificate-based authentication and single sing-on.<br />After authentication, the section moves on the authorization or the roles part of the puzzle.  In reading this section, I learned something new and really interesting.  There is discussion of the RequestDispatcher object that allows you to use the forward() or include() method to create an invocation chain.  In that scenario, the web container only authorizes the first invocation and not every forward or include that are part of the process.  There is also discussion about how to use security-constraints to protect a single page, URL, or URL pattern.  After declarative security, the chapter moves to programmatic security with discussion of the javax.security.Principal object, role reference and mapping in web.xml.  The chapter then moves on to discuss some usage pattern and best practices on how to use cookies, SSL and HttpSession.  I was pleasantly surprised to a see a simple Servlet Filter example to restrict a set of users from any application.  The next section of the book covers EJB security starting with a quick intro to EJBs and the moves into EJB security and method authorization.<br />The next section of the book deal with J2SE security.  This section starts with the class loader and how the default class loader and the whole delegation process works.  I really liked the section on class loading process, the delegation hierarchy, bytecode verifier, security manager and privileged code.  In fact, I really liked this chapter and re-read it several times.  The section on the SecurityManager is very comprehensive and probably the best explanation I've read about the topic.  The next chapter breaks down the Java permission model in great detail including the Java security policy.  Most people that use the -D parameter to specify the java.security.manager and java.security.policy don't really understand the details behind those command line parameters really need to read this chapter.<br />The next chapter describes the Java Authentication and Authorization Service (JAAS) in great detail.  This chapter is full of example code that walks you through the JAAS framework.  I really like the treatment given to JAAS as it very comprehensive and very well written.  This is also one of those chapters I re-read several times.  I've been using JAAS for almost 2 years now and I still found this to be very educational and the included Java code made concepts very easy to understand and follow.<br />After JAAS, the book moves on to Cryptography and its role in terms of Enterprise security.  This three chapter section starts off with the theory of cryptography and then describes JCA and JCE framework in great details.  This was not of great interest to me personally and so I skimmed most of this section.  After JCA/JCE, the book moves on to public-key cryptography and S/MIME.<br />The next chapter focuses on Secure Socket Layer (SSL) or Transport Layer Security (TLS).  I love the section on the SSL handshake as it simplifies and explain this very complex interaction.  This section also has a lot of Java code that helps illustrate some of the complex concepts including using and creating the keystore and using client authentication with certificate.<br />The next chapter discusses security for Web Services and discusses topics such as XML Signature, Security Services Markup Language (SAML) and WS-Security.  After Web Services, the book discusses security consideration that must be taken into account by container providers.<br />In conclusion, this is the best book I have ever read dealing with the topic of security.  This is also the best Java security book and is a very comprehensive guide to anyone working with Java.  This book belongs in every developer's bookcase and he/she really needs to understand these concepts.  If you are looking for a book that overwhelms you with code, this is not it.  Instead this is a great tutorial book that uses Java code where appropriate but relies on great writing and explanation of the security framework and components.  I highly recommend this book and I know this is going to be handy reference for me.I really liked this chapter and re-read it several times.  The section on the SecurityManager is very comprehensive and probably the best explanation I've read about the topic.  The next chapter breaks down the Java permission model in great detail including the Java security policy.  Most people that use the -D parameter to specify the java.security.manager and java.security.policy don't really understand the details behind those command line parameters really need to read this chapter.  <br />The next chapter describes the Java Authentication and Authorization Service (JAAS) in great detail.  This chapter is full of example code that walks you through the JAAS framework.  I really like the treatment given to JAAS as it very comprehensive and very well written.  This is also one of those chapters I re-read several times.  I've been using JAAS for almost 2 years now and I still found this to be very educational and the included Java code made concepts very easy to understand and follow.<br />After JAAS, the book moves on to Cryptography and its role in terms of Enterprise security.  This three chapter section starts off with the theory of cryptography and then describes JCA and JCE framework in great details.  This was not of great interest to me personally and so I skimmed most of this section.  After JCA/JCE, the book moves on to public-key cryptography and S/MIME.<br />The next chapter focuses on Secure Socket Layer (SSL) or Transport Layer Security (TLS).  I love the section on the SSL handshake as it simplifies and explain this very complex interaction.  This section also has a lot of Java code that helps illustrate some of the complex concepts including using and creating the keystore and using client authentication with certificate.<br />The next chapter discusses security for Web Services and discusses topics such as XML Signature, Security Services Markup Language (SAML) and WS-Security.  After Web Services, the book discusses security consideration that must be taken into account by container providers.  <br />In conclusion, this is the best book I have ever read dealing with the topic of security.  This is also the best Java security book and is a very comprehensive guide to anyone working with Java.  This book belongs in every developer's bookcase and he/she really needs to understand these concepts.  If you are looking for a book that overwhelms you with code, this is not it.  Instead this is a great tutorial book that uses Java code where appropriate but relies on great writing and explanation of the security framework and components.  I highly recommend this book and I know this is going to be handy reference for me.	2004-04-21
US	53033212	R2DYVIS5FZ3LXE	0596006209	822109104	Java Examples in a Nutshell, 3rd Edition	Books	4	27	29	N	N	Great for core Java API - J2EE section weak	In this 3rd edition, author David Flanagan has updated the book with coverage of Java 1.4. In keeping with the tradition of the other nutshell books, this book is an instant must-have book.  This book is divided into 4 sections.  The first section is a short yet very nice Java and OO tutorial.  This book is not meant to replace your regular tutorial book, but can certainly act as that for someone who already knows the basics and is trying to bone up on the language API and usage.<br />The second section of the book covers the core Java API, including I/O, NIO, threads, networking, security and cryptography, serialization, and reflection.  This section of the book is really solid and includes great working and commented examples of most of the core set of Java API.  I really liked the network section as it includes code that will fulfill most of your needs in terms of network related development.<br />The third section of the book deals with graphics and user-interface including Swing, Java 2D graphics, preferences, printing, drag-and-drop, JavaBeans, applets, and sound.  Not being much of a UI guy, I glossed over most of this section but it seemed complete and comprehensive.  I know where I am going to turn if I ever need to work with Swing or applets.<br />The last section of the book includes coverage of the server-side Java or J2EE development, including JDBC, JAXP (XML parsing and transformation), Servlets 2.4, JSP 2.0, and RMI.  Being a back-end or server side developer, I spent a lot of time consuming this section and I was very impressed with the quality of the coverage, explanation and examples included in this section.  The section starts off with a nice introduction to JDBC, database metadata and includes some nice examples configurable example that are ready for use with little or no modifications.  I think that's important to new developers that are getting familiar with an API.  In reading the code, it was nice to see the author using the execute() method instead of executeUpdate() or executeQuery() method along with a simple explanation of why he is doing that.  Sounds simple, but I can't tell you the number of times junior developers have come to me and asked me about this exact topic.<br />After JDBC, the book jumps into XML with a nice intro to SAX, DOM, and XSLT.  Not a lot of meat here, but XML is always a moving target in terms of the API.  I wish this section had a little more to it as it is missing the whole idea of Java-XML data binding which is a useful topic. After XML, the book moves over to Servlets and JSP.  Nice intro to servlets and JSP, but leaves you wanting more.  I think the whole server-side Java just needs to be another book and I think David should just come up with a Java Enterprise Examples in a nutshell.  O'Reilly already has some great books in this category including the Java Servlet and JSP cookbook.<br />Having said all that, I still really like this book for how it deals with the core API.  This book contains 193 complete, documented examples which makes it a must for any junior developer that knows or is learning Java and wants to know how to apply the API.  The examples from this book are available for download from the author's website located at davidflanagan dot com.method instead of executeUpdate() or executeQuery() method along with a simple explanation of why he is doing that.  Sounds simple, but I can't tell you the number of times junior developers have come to me and asked me about this exact topic.   <br />After JDBC, the book jumps into XML with a nice intro to SAX, DOM, and XSLT.  Not a lot of meat here, but XML is always a moving target in terms of the API.  I wish this section had a little more to it as it is missing the whole idea of Java-XML data binding which is a useful topic. After XML, the book moves over to Servlets and JSP.  Nice intro to servlets and JSP, but leaves you wanting more.  I think the whole server-side Java just needs to be another book and I think David should just come up with a Java Enterprise Examples in a nutshell.  O'Reilly already has some great books in this category including the Java Servlet and JSP cookbook.<br />Having said all that, I still really like this book for how it deals with the core API.  This book contains 193 complete, documented examples which makes it a must for any junior developer that knows or is learning Java and wants to know how to apply the API.  The examples from this book are available for download from the author's website located at davidflanagan dot com.	2004-03-21
US	53033212	RKDVHYOK7H7TX	0596005725	651456712	Java Servlet &amp; JSP Cookbook	Books	5	25	27	N	N	Must-have book for any Servlet/JSP developer	In the great tradition of cookbooks, O'Reilly has published the Java Servlet and JSP Cookbook. This book, written by Bruce W. Perry is a must-own book for anyone working with web applications in the Java space. I've been a Java developer for almost 8 years now and have been working with Servlets since early 1999 and I've learned quite a few things from this book.<br />The Java Servlet &amp; JSP Cookbook provides more than 200 'recipes' or fully working and documented code snippets that you can directly cut-and-paste in your application. The book starts off with a quick intro to writing servlets and JSP pages. I was very impressed that the first JSP page that you write uses JSTL and is not loaded up with scriptlet code. I am just sick and tired of arguing with people with scriptlets are bad and it's nice to see a book that starts off with JSTL. Kudos Bruce.<br />Once the intro is complete, you move onto writing deployment descriptors, deployment along with a nice little chapter on Ant. One of the most common question after people deploy JSP based application is the idea of precompiling JSPs for performance reasons. The fifth chapter does a great job of suggesting several methods of precompiling JSPs. I should also mention that the book includes how-to guides for Tomcat and WebLogic, which covers a pretty large landscape of web containers. WebSphere, Resin, Jetty are not directly covered.<br />The book then moves on and covers topics such as handling Form data via POST/GET, uploading files, cookies, session tracking and URL rewriting. There is also a chapter on JavaScript and how they use JavaScript with servlets. I don't really understand the point of this chapter as most users just need a few cut-n-paste JavaScript for client-side FORM validation. There is also a chapter on streaming non-HTML content such as PDF, audio/video files and others to the browser.<br />I also liked the chapter of logging in Servlets and JSPs. This chapter includes a nice introduction to Log4j and a nice tag library that uses Log4j under the cover. My favorite chapter in this book was the chapter dealing with authentication. The chapter starts off by talking setting users in Tomcat and then moves into setting up BASIC authentication. The next recipe talks about using Form-based authentication. The chapter is rounded off with a good treatment of the Java Authentication and Authorization service (JAAS). In this chapter, you create your own custom LoginModule and then use JAAS in a servlet and JSP.<br />There is also a chapter about embedding multimedia content inside JSPs. This is not something I'm really interested in and I just glossed over this chapter. The same goes for the next chapter on manipulation of the HttpRequest. The next chapter does a great job of exploring Servlet Filters, which is a great feature introduced in the Servlet 2.3 specification that hasn't really caught on. Filters are great and the book includes some great examples of how best to use them.<br />The next section includes chapters on sending, accessing email from servlets along with database access. Most complex application usually will implement some backend service to access database and separate the business logic from the data and the data from the UI, but the included recipes will help get you up and running for simple application.<br />I really liked the section on custom tag libraries and JSTL. Tag Libraries are a great way to avoid scriptlet code in JSPs. The chapter on JSTL is also fairly comprehensive and includes code snippets for the core, XML, format, and SQL tags. There is also a great section on the Expression Language (EL) which has been migrated from JSTL 1.0 to the JSP 2.0 specification.<br />I could go on about this book but I won't bore you any longer, assuming you are still reading. I highly recommend this book for anyone doing any type of Web development using Servlet and JSPs. I mentioned this earlier, but I've been writing Servlets and JSPs for the past 5 years and I've learned quite a few things from this book. Add this book to your library today. The code for this book is available on O'Reilly dot comthe past 5 years and I've learned quite a few things from this book. Add this book to your library today. The code for this book is available on O'Reilly dot com	2004-03-05
US	53033212	ROI01JLCT580B	0321146182	657186015	J2EE Web Services: XML SOAP WSDL UDDI WS-I JAX-RPC JAXR SAAJ JAXP	Books	5	13	16	N	N	THE Bible for J2EE - Web Services development	J2EE Web Services by Richard Monson-Haefel is the current de-facto standard bible for Web Services development on Java. I had pre-ordered this book on Amazon and have read through this book several times in the last few months and I absolutely love this book. Richard has created a great resource for the J2EE developer that's looking to build interoperable Web Services.<br />Most EJB developers are already familiar with Richard Monson-Haefel's work in his OReilly EJB's book. He brings that expertise into the realm of J2EE and Web Services. In fact, this is the first book to talk about Web Services Interoperability Organization's (WS-I) Basic Profile 1.0.<br />WS-I is an open, industry organization chartered to promote Web services interoperability across platforms, operating systems, and programming languages. WS-I Basic Profile 1.0 is set of recommendations on how to use web services specifications to maximize interoperability. This book delves into the details of J2EE 1.4 and how we as Java developer can build and consume Web Services in a standard way.<br />The book starts off with an introduction to XML, SOAP, WSDL and UDDI before jumping into the meat, Java API for XML-Based RPC (JAX-RPC). If you don't have any experience with those technologies, the book offers a great tutorial on those items. I was particularly impressed with the treatment on XML Schemas in the 3rd chapter.<br />Once the basic groundwork is laid with a solid introduction to XML, SOAP, WSDL and UDDI, the book jumps right in the JAX-RPC platform. In fact, the middle half of the book is dedicated to JAX-RPC. JAX-RPC is a specification for making remote procedure calls via XML and SOAP over HTTP. JAX-RPC provides an easy to develop programming model for development of SOAP based Web services. You can use the RPC programming model to develop Web service clients and endpoints (server).<br />Once you get an overview of JAX-RPC, you jump right into building Web Services. The section on JAX-RPC is really detailed and offers a very in-depth tutorial on building Web Services. From JAX-RPC, you jump into Java API for XML Registries or JAXR. The Java API for XML Registries (JAXR) provides a uniform and standard Java API for accessing different kinds of XML Registries. An XML registry is an enabling infrastructure for building, deploying, and discovering Web services. I read through most of this section but I didn't really spend as much time on it as I should have.<br />The final section of the book deals with deployment. J2EE deployment is a total pain in the ass and anyone that's spent hours fighting classpath issues in ear files will agree with me. The section on deployment is very detailed and very well written. I found it extremely helpful in setting up JAX-RPC mapping files along with other deployment descriptor. I have to agree with Richard's comment at the end of Chapter 24 - Deployment descriptors sucks and have gotten overly complicated. Items like Cedric's ejbc and XDoclet have done a great job in simplified the creation of ejb and web deployment descriptors and J2EE 1.5 should really address this issue.<br />My only complaint about this book is the lack of downloadable source code. I did email Richard and he very graciously replied saying the book is really more of a reference than a tutorial. Hopefully he'll change his mind and put together a source code distribution for this book.<br />If you are going to be building Web Services in Java, want to learn more about the alphabet soup of Web Services or just want to learn more about WS-I and BP1 and how to build interoperable Web Services, this is the book for you. I found this book to be very helpful and plan to use it for my Web Services class. This book is a must for any J2EE Web Services developer.ally detailed and offers a very in-depth tutorial on building Web Services. From JAX-RPC, you jump into Java API for XML Registries or JAXR. The Java API for XML Registries (JAXR) provides a uniform and standard Java API for accessing different kinds of XML Registries. An XML registry is an enabling infrastructure for building, deploying, and discovering Web services. I read through most of this section but I didn't really spend as much time on it as I should have.<br />The final section of the book deals with deployment. J2EE deployment is a total pain in the ass and anyone that's spent hours fighting classpath issues in ear files will agree with me. The section on deployment is very detailed and very well written. I found it extremely helpful in setting up JAX-RPC mapping files along with other deployment descriptor. I have to agree with Richard's comment at the end of Chapter 24 - Deployment descriptors sucks and have gotten overly complicated. Items like Cedric's ejbc and XDoclet have done a great job in simplified the creation of ejb and web deployment descriptors and J2EE 1.5 should really address this issue.<br />My only complaint about this book is the lack of downloadable source code. I did email Richard and he very graciously replied saying the book is really more of a reference than a tutorial. Hopefully he'll change his mind and put together a source code distribution for this book. <br />If you are going to be building Web Services in Java, want to learn more about the alphabet soup of Web Services or just want to learn more about WS-I and BP1 and how to build interoperable Web Services, this is the book for you. I found this book to be very helpful and plan to use it for my Web Services class. This book is a must for any J2EE Web Services developer.	2004-02-13
US	53033212	RHCTF02733TSV	1930110502	273812736	Struts in Action: Building Web Applications with the Leading Java Framework	Books	4	32	33	N	N	A good solid Struts tutorial	Struts in Action is a good book that has some flaws.  I had this book pre-ordered on Amazon from the minute I heard about its publication.  The lead author Ted Husted is very active in the Struts development community and still manages a great Struts resource site.<br />I read the book right away and spent a few weeks going over all the examples in the book.  My overall feeling is that this is a good book but it suffers from a lot of the same thing that affects other Struts book.  These books were published right around the release of Struts 1.1 and so they are on the fence where they talk about Struts 1.0 and 1.1.  Since I had used Struts 1.0 before, the sections that described the changes from 1.0 to 1.1 was very helpful.<br />Like other books, there is some mention of JSTL but not any details.  The section on tag libraries is extensive and well written.<br />I just went through all my Struts books again as I had to teach a 6 week class on Struts.  I went through the five Struts books I owned and I settled on 'Programming Jakarta Struts' by Chuck Cavaness as my finalist.  Struts in Action is really a good book but I felt the Chuck Cavaness did a better job of acting as a tutorial.  So if you only want to buy one Struts book, I would recommend the Chuck Cavaness book. However, if you want more than one, I would highly recommend this book as your second book on Struts.	2003-11-19
US	53033212	RBUGNZ8WIQ1TF	0596003285	736871524	Programming Jakarta Struts	Books	4	11	17	N	N	A Great tutorial guide to Struts	Programming Jakarta Struts is a great book.  I wanted to give it 4 1/2 stars but Amazon doesn't allow that.  I bought this book the first day it came out and read it cover to cover.  This was one of the first books out that covered Struts 1.1 in any detail.  Chuck Cavaness, the author had published most of the book on TheServerSide.com where readers could review the beta copy of the book and so I knew this was going to be a great book.<br />I just finished teaching a 6-week Struts class and used this book for that class.  The book starts with intro to Web development, servlets and JSP pages before jumping into the basics of the Struts framework.  Chuck does a great job in breaking down the components of the Struts framework and explaining them in details.  After the intro, the book builds into the guts of the Struts framework with detailed chapters exploring MVC, the Action classes, Model components and the display tier.<br />The chapter on tag libraries is very well written. The author mentions JSTL, the JSP Standard Tag Library but only includes a 2-page summary of JSTL.  I wish the section on JSTL had a little more meat to it.  I think this probably had something to do with the timing of the publication of the book and the JSTL standard.<br />I also liked the chapter on the validation framework.  With the framework wasn't covered in any detail, there was still enough information to get you started with the validation framework.  In the later chapters, the author discusses EJB integration in Struts and provides some good best practices for that integration.<br />To summarize, this is a great book and has to be one of the best Struts tutorial books out there.  I should know, as I own about five Struts book.  I would highly recommend this book to anyone looking to learn more about Struts.	2003-11-19
US	53033212	RJ5E1O6YO34EV	0596003188	296284458	Tomcat: The Definitive Guide	Books	5	23	25	N	N	THE Tomcat Bible - A must own book for anyone using Tomcat	Tomcat: The Definitive Guide is a great book about the most commonly used open-source servlet/JSP container.  Tomcat is the official Reference Implementation for the Java Servlet and JavaServer Pages technologies.  Tomcat is really powerful and flexible, but you really need a good book to figure out how to integrate Tomcat with Apache, how to set load-balancers, clustering, etc on all of the major platforms, including Windows, Solaris, Linux, and Mac OS X.<br />This is where Tomcat: The Definitive Guide comes in.  This really well written book makes it easy to follow for the developer as well as non-developer admin.  The book starts with an introduction of Tomcat (v4.0) where you learn how to stop/start the server, learn about the directory structure, and learn to modify the start/stop scripts as well as the configuration settings.  I really like the treatment given to security, realms and JAAS in the second chapter with more details in the sixth chapter.  Most books of this type will leave out security and this book deals with it in the second chapter.  Kudos to the authors for that.<br />I also really like the chapter on performance tuning that deals with real-world applications.  The chapter on integration with the Apache webserver is really well written.  Most people that deploy Tomcat in production will want to put Apache webserver in front of Tomcat to serve up static content like html and images while letting Tomcat handle servlets and JSPs.  Most of the documentation about this Apache httpd - Tomcat integration on the Internet deals with v1.3 of Apache httpd.  However, the book deals with Apache 2.0, which is another plus for the book.<br />I can go on and on -  If you are using Tomcat, planning on using Tomcat or just want to learn more about the server, this book will provide you with all of the information to help harness Tomcat's power and wealth of features.  I would highly recommend this book as a companion to any servlet/JSP programming book.	2003-09-07
US	53033212	R2QMJQM930SW4T	0131422464	877600240	Core J2EE Patterns: Best Practices and Design Strategies (2nd Edition)	Books	5	26	30	N	N	The J2EE development bible - A MUST BUY	The 2nd edition of the J2EE development bible, Core J2EE Patterns: Best Practices and Design Strategies is out and the authors do not disappoint.  I had given the first edition of this book 5 stars as the authors of the book had taken lessons learned from their experiences in developing and deploying J2EE applications and distilled all that knowledge into fifteen different design patterns.<br />Even if you own the first edition, I would recommend you get the 2nd edition as original 15 patterns have been completely revised and updated, including new implementation strategies and updates relating to the changes in the J2EE specification.  J2EE application development is a fairly complex process and just knowing the API does not enable you to write good software.  Most people spent several years writing software and learn good design techniques with experience based on what's worked in the past and what hasn't worked.<br />Another reason to buy this book is the whole Refactoring section.  The authors take Martin Fowler's refactoring idea to the next level and bring it in the J2EE arena.  I feel the price of the book is worth it, just for that section.<br />In addition to the 15 patterns, the authors introduce 6 design patterns to the J2EE pattern catalog...The new patterns include Context Object and Application Controller for the Presentation tier, Application Service and Business Object for the Business Tier and Domain Store and Web Service Broker for the Integration Tier.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone doing any J2EE development.  This book is very easy and light read and it really belongs in your library.  I bet anyone that reads even parts of this book will end up writing better, more manageable code that's cleaner, modular, reusable, and loosely coupled.  As Martin Fowler says in the foreword, 'Don't build an enterprise bean without it (this book)'.  Can Martin Fowler be wrong? :-)<br />If you are looking for a 'cookbook' type book that overwhelms you with 200 pages of Java code, this is not it. Instead if you want to learn how to architect simple, flexible and easy to maintain systems, you need to buy and read this book.you with 200 pages of Java code, this is not it. Instead if you want to learn how to architect simple, flexible and easy to maintain systems, you need to buy and read this book.	2003-06-24
US	53033212	R11KW37ARME3FQ	0596004176	837855721	WebLogic 6.1 Server Workbook for Enterprise JavaBeans (3rd Edition)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A must-own companion to the O'Reilly EJB book	This workbook is a companion guide to the book Enterprise JavaBeans (3rd edition) published by O'Reilly and written by Richard Monson-Haefel. This workbook walks the reader through installing and configuring WebLogic 6.1 as well as deploying the examples described in the EJB book.<br />This is a very readable book that explains some of the WebLogic-specific requirements as well as best practices for dealing with EJB's (EJB 2.0 spec) in a WebLogic environment. I highly recommend this book for anyone working with EJB's on the WebLogic application server.<br />This WebLogic 6.1 Workbook was originally published by Enterprise JavaBeans author Richard Monson-Haefel's Titan Books publishing company. O'Reilly bought the rights to publish it and order to open it up for a wider audience	2002-09-20
US	53033212	R1EODY3TX2X8DB	0596001843	243975592	Ant: The Definitive Guide	Books	5	13	17	N	N	A must read for anyone using or starting with ANT	Ant: The Definitive Guide is just that - A great tutorial on ANT that will have you up and running with Ant in just a few minutes.  I have been an Ant user for about 8 months now, but I still found a lot of very interesting things in this book.  The book starts up with an introduction to Ant and builds into a complete tutorial where the reader will learn everything he/she needs to write build scripts using Ant.<br />I really liked the chapters on user written tasks and listeners which allow you to extend Ant to do what you need it to do.  The book also includes a detailed section where all of the core and optional tasks are described in details with a usage example for most of the tasks.<br />If you are using Ant or want to start using Ant, this is the book for you.	2002-06-02
US	53033212	R302JM7838J6NE	0596001231	594798110	Building Java Enterprise Applications, Vol. 1: Architecture (O'Reilly Java)	Books	5	22	29	N	N	Another Great book from Brett McLaughlin	I have been programming with Java for over 6 years now and have been teaching Java, J2EE for almost just as long.  In my role as lead developer, architect, teacher, and mentor, I am always looking for good books that I can recommend that really teaches people how to write good code.  In the J2EE arena, I've had two favorites that I always recommend - Core J2EE Patterns: Best Practices and Design Strategies by Deepak Alur and Designing Enterprise Applications with the J2EE Platform by Inderjeet Singh.  I love the way those books are written and I find the same traits in this book.  I'm going to have to add this book that list as Brett has written a great book.<br />In the 1st book of the 3-book series, Brett walks the reader through the architectural issues developers typically face when they start on a new project.  The 2nd book in this series will deal with Web Applications and the 3rd book will deal with the concept of Web Services.<br />The book starts off where the developer(s), working for a fictional company gets a set of requirement for an application.  As you read the book, you go through all of the steps of the software development process and discovering how the different J2EE technologies work together to make up the final solution.  The book is aimed at experienced developers who don't mind wading through hundreds of lines of code.  The goal here is to explore and understand concept using code and is not meant for the uninitiated.  The author arms the readers with tips, tricks, techniques that make up a good design based on real-world experience which makes this book a really good resource for any enterprise developer.	2002-04-08
US	53033212	RBVAG1C8GP463	047120708X	657418705	Java Tools for Extreme Programming: Mastering Open Source Tools, Including Ant, JUnit, and Cactus (Java Open Source Library)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Great book for Ant, JUnit and Cactus -- Not an XP tutorial	This book describes the techniques for implementing the eXtreme Programming (XP) practices of automated testing and integration under the auspices of XP.  This book is not meant as XP tutorial even though the book includes a good introduction to eXtreme Programming and the practices that make up XP.<br />For the uninitiated, eXtreme Programming (XP) is a pragmatic approach to software development that emphasizes results first and takes an incremental, `build something that works quick' approach to building the product, using continual testing and refactoring. Kent Beck came up with the idea and has written several books on XP and he emphasizes testing and writing test code to validate the actual code you are writing.  Beck calls Extreme Programming a \\"lightweight methodology\\" that challenges traditional notions of software development process.  The basic idea is to start small and building something real that works and move forward while constantly refactoring the code.<br />I bought the book as a reference guide for Ant and Cactus and found this book to be really well written, easy to read and a great resource even if you don't use XP as your software development practice.<br />One of the reasons I love this book is because of all the examples and code included in this book.  The authors and contributors take real examples and apply Ant, Cactus, JUnit, etc in terms of those real problems making it easy to take the lessons learned and applying them to your projects.  I really like the flow of the book - For example, the chapters on Ant begin with some basic information about Ant, what is it, and how to build your xml file to use Ant.  You use Ant on a simple example and then move to more complex tasks where you eventually end up building an entire ear file using Ant.  The chapters on JUnit and Cactus are also excellent and are written in the similar tutorial fashion.  I haven't spent a lot of time looking at the HttpUnit, and JMeter chapters.<br />Another nice feature of the book is that it includes all of the API and tag references for Ant, Cactus, JUnit, and HttpUnit that takes up over 150 pages.  In most cases, I find it annoying when authors pad their books with 100's of pages of API, but I didn't mind it in this case as it's nice to have them available for easy reference.ce feature of the book is that it includes all of the API and tag references for Ant, Cactus, JUnit, and HttpUnit that takes up over 150 pages.  In most cases, I find it annoying when authors pad their books with 100's of pages of API, but I didn't mind it in this case as it's nice to have them available for easy reference.	2002-03-24
US	53033212	R3DAL11O4328VT	0596000715	163779488	Learning Red Hat Linux, 2nd Edition	Books	5	10	11	N	N	The best intro Linux book	O'Reilly and Bill McCarty have done it again - they've gone ahead and created an awesome intro Linux book.  In the same vein as Running Linux by Matt Welsh (the bible), this is a really good book for anyone who wants to get into Linux.<br />I have been a Linux user since 1991 back when no one really knew about Linux and the Kernel was still at 0.99.  I cut my teeth on SLS and Slackware releases of Linux before moving to RedHat and the O'Reilly books have been just incredible.  In fact, I still have the first edition of Running Linux by Matt Welsh that I bought in 1995.  Having said all that, I just bought this book for the free copy of Red Hat 7.2 included in it.  But I still spent a couple of hours going through the book and I am thoroughly impressed with the treatment each subjects gets in this book.  Starting with the installation to configuring and installing X, GNOME to setting up networking, this book is a complete resource for anyone starting up with Linux.	2002-03-02
US	53033212	R4DKGR2K2P7IA	0060506989	502570587	We Were Soldiers Once... and Young: Ia Drang--The Battle That Changed the War in Vietnam	Books	5	13	15	N	N	An incredible memorial to the men lost at landing zone X-Ray	We Were Soldiers Once... and Young: IA Drang--the Battle That Changed the War in Vietnam is an extraordinary account of one of first major engagements in the Ia Drang Valley in the infancy of the Vietnam War. This book written by General Harold G. Moore and Joseph L. Galloway is just an incredible book that tells the story of 450 men of the 1st Battalion, 7th cavalry, under the command of Lt. Col. Hal Moore. They were dropped into a small clearing in the la Drang Valley where they were immediately surrounded by 2,000 North Vietnamese soldiers where one of the fiercest and significant battles of the Vietnam War was fought.<br />I've had the pleasure of meeting General Moore and hearing him speak several times ... about this book and the battle and it instantly becomes apparent why he is a legend and how lucky his men were to have him as their commander. His affection for the men under his command is very apparent and NY Times said it best when they said 'the men who fought and died in Ia Drang could have no finer memorial than this one'.<br />If you're looking for a book that glorifies war, this is not that book.  I think the authors want to portray the realities of war and all of the death and destructions that it lays in its path.  General Moore also wants to highlight the American spirit and how the friendship and love soldiers in the field develop for each other and how it keeps them going and fighting.<br />This book has also been turned into a movie called We Were Soldiers staring Mel Gibson.	2002-02-28
US	53033212	R4CRBNW0R3KWI	1931822468	837855721	WebLogic Server 6.1 Workbook for Enterprise JavaBeans, 3rd Edition	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A great companion to the O'Reilly EJB book	This workbook is a companion guide to the book Enterprise JavaBeans (3rd edition) published by O'Reilly and written by Richard Monson-Haefel.  This workbook walks the reader through installing and configuring WebLogic 6.1 as well as deploying the examples described in the EJB book.<br />This is a very readable book that explains some of the WebLogic-specific requirements as well as best practices for dealing with EJB's (EJB 2.0 spec) in a WebLogic environment.  I highly recommend this book for anyone working with EJB's on the WebLogic application server.	2002-02-10
US	53033212	RLQVHKSODT1EF	0688179088	267582819	Do Fish Drink Water?: Puzzling and Improbable Questions and Answers	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A fun, educational and informative book.	Do Fish Drink Water?  The answer is yes, but it's mostly due to Osmosis.  Did I just give away the ending of the book?  No, rest assured.  This book is a really funny and informative collection of facts that will answer all those questions that you always had.  This book is written by Bill McLain who is the webmaster and Xerox and the book is a collection of questions he received.  Now I am not sure why people were emailing the webmaster at Xerox to ask him about some of these things, but I am glad Bill collected all of those questions and put them in his book.<br />This is a really fun, educational book and a must-have.	2002-01-31
US	53033212	R35M59RN5G2BWI	0130648841	444052728	Core J2EE Patterns: Best Practices and Design Strategies	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Real world solutions for real J2EE problems - A must buy	Core J2EE Patterns: Best Practices and Design Strategies is a great book and a must for anyone involved in Java development dealing with J2EE technologies.  (This book is not meant to replace the Gang of Four Design pattern book)<br />A design pattern is simply a proven solution to a recurring design problem.  In the last few years, J2EE technology has matured as the de-facto platform for building Enterprise application in the Java world.  With all the technology possibilities comes confusion as to what is the best way.  The senior architects from the Sun Java Center have learned from their experiences in developing and deploying J2EE applications and have distilled all that knowledge into fifteen different design patterns.  This book offers practical advice that can be applied to real-world problems.  The authors take each pattern and describe them in great detail using UML class and sequence diagrams.  What makes this book different from other programming books is that the authors take time to explain the thought process and motivation for the solution and the reason for using the particular pattern with the specific problem at hand.  This book is a must for any developer or architect involved as this book will help you write or design better code.<br />If you are looking for a `cookbook' type book that overwhelms you with 200 pages of Java code, this is not it.  Instead if you want to learn how to architect simple, flexible and easy to maintain systems, you need to buy and read this book.	2002-01-21
US	53033212	R3HL242ZS9VCXD	0131103628	39144792	C Programming Language, 2nd Edition	Books	5	1	3	N	N	The BIBLE for anyone learning C or programming concepts	This is the second edition of the original Kernighan &amp; Ritchie (K&amp;R) text. This book is commonly referred to as the New Testament as it includes the modifications incorporated by the ANSI standard, while retaining the nature of the 1st edition. This book assumes that the reader has some basic programming knowledge. So if you're just starting to program and C is the first language, this might not be the ideal book. This is one of THE BEST books on C and a must have, especially if you're starting your own little programming library.	2002-01-19
US	53033212	R3F26J27UTA6FP	0130925691	576001953	Applying UML and Patterns: An Introduction to Object-Oriented Analysis and Design and the Unified Process (2nd Edition)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The Best OO Analysis and Design tutorial book	There are already some great reviews for this book and I don't feel like I can add anything new, but I still want to get my vote in and say that this book is really THE BEST Object Orientated Analysis and Design tutorial book.<br />The book starts and builds upon itself, chapters after chapter as you move forward through the book using the Java programming language.  The topics covered in this book include OO fundamentals, UML, design patterns, Unified process, and many other great topics.  I wanted to steal a line from the review by Dan Moth where he says, `Craig Larman proves it (OOA/D) to be a science and not art or magic'.  I couldn't have stated this any better.  This is a great book and must be in every developer's book shelf, especially ones starting out in OOA/D.	2002-01-08
US	53033212	R3EVLUNUWM1MYY	0740715674	693850140	Dilbert 2002 Day-To-Day Calendar	Books	5	1	1	N	N	It's Dilbert - Buy it	What more can I say --  It's Dilbert and it's truly funny.  It's great because it's true.  People that work in a corporate environment relate to pretty much everything. Scott Adams does a great job and you need this on your desk.	2002-01-06
US	53033212	R2E1MZZZT0UD1T	0060193395	744363528	Body for Life: 12 Weeks to Mental and Physical Strength	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Great book that will change your life	I have been a fan of Bill Phillips for a while now and I discovered his work and company quite accidentally.<br />Body for Life: 12 Weeks to Mental and Physical Strength by Bill Phillips is a great book that will change your life.  This book has a fairly simple program that challenges you to change your life.  The concepts are familiar - eat nutritious meals and workout.  The book takes those concepts a little further laying out a three-times-a-week workout program for 12 weeks.  I think Bill has taken some very simple concepts and taken a no-gimmick approach to fitness.  His challenge is very simple - Give me 12 weeks and do what I tell you and I will transform your physique.  And this program works as you can see people who have achieved astounding results in 12 weeks via. the pictures and testimonials included in the book and website.<br />I've bought over 5 copies of this book for friends and family and I would recommend this book to anyone who is interested in a serious book that will change their life and body. If you are looking for a quick fix or an easy pill, this is not a book for you.	2002-01-06
US	53033212	R34XOWIOF09FJX	1893115100	726724049	Taming Java Threads	Books	5	4	5	N	N	THE BEST Java/Thread book	Taming Java Threads by Allen Holub is THE best book dealing with Java and threads.  Typically you can just pick any O'Reilly book for any subject matter and just assume it is going to be one of the best books out there.  That is not the case here - Allen has written a very comprehensive book on threads in Java and covering issues related to multithreaded programming not covered anywhere else.<br />Unlike a lot of people, I got exposed to Allen's writings via. his JavaWorld articles on Threading.  That 9 part article offered a great treatment on Java threads and probably was a basis for this book.  But the book is far more comprehensive and offers a great understanding of the basics of threads, and how to work with them correctly.  This book is very extensive touching on every aspect of multithreading programming including AWT and Swing.  This book is a must for anyone programming multithreaded applications in Java.	2001-12-21
US	53033212	R2N3X6R7DK5M5U	0131774298	526642957	Expert C Programming: Deep C Secrets	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The best 2nd book on C	Peter has written one of the greatest books to hit the computer book stands in a long time! This is not your typical C book, but is rather a fun book to read. As I told Peter, most C programming texts are really boring as all they do is describe the functions, give a abstract example and then move onto something different. This book is chock full of real world C stories and folklore, including a story about the C bug that brought down the AT&T network. I found the tongue-in-cheek attitude and real world examples/stories very, very interesting. Click the 'add to shopping cart' button and buy this book. I really really loved this book, and I read most of it in one sitting. There is also a great introduction to C++ for C programmers that will get you started with C++ and Object-Oriented programming. This book is not for beginners, but is a great second book on C.<br />Expert C Programming is also ideal for those C programmers who want to move to C++. According to the author, the book puts the \\"fun\\" back in \\"functions\\" :)	2001-12-13
US	53033212	R17H8D51PHL2OQ	0672484080	401889611	Programming in ANSI C (Hayden Books C library)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The best C tutorial book	This book by Steve Kochan is absolutely the best book for anyone starting out programming in C. This is an excellent introductory text with frequent examples and good text. This book makes no assumptions about the particular computer system or operating system on which the C language is implemented. This books is written for novices and experienced programmers alike. I love this book as the comprehensive 'teach by examples' book can help you master the unique features of the C language. There is complete coverage of program looping, decision making, arrays, strings, pointers and bit operations and helpful end-of-chapter exercises. This is the book I used to learn C and it really is a great book. The K&amp;R book is really great as a reference, but not as the first book.<br />I reviewed this book back in 1995 on the LEARN C/C++ TODAY list and it is still the best book for learning C out there.	2001-12-13
US	53033212	R3P8AH72RBE60B	0130911119	907678058	J2EE Applications and BEA WebLogic Server	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Finally a good J2EE book specific to WebLogic	There are a lot of really good books out there dealing with J2EE technologies such as EJB, Servlets/JSP, JMS, etc..  (Like the O'Reilly books).  But we didn't have a good book that put it all together in context of the WebLogic Application server, until now.<br />I wasn't sure what to expect when I started reading this book.  Michael Girdley and Rob Woollen are very smart people and people that spend any times in the WebLogic newsgroups know how smart these guys really are.  I wasn't sure if that would translate to their writings -- It does.  This is a very nicely written book that goes through Servlets, JSP, JDBC/JTA, JMS, RMI, EJB's including Message Beans and WebLogic specific configuration options including clustering and failover.<br />I think this is a great book for beginners as well as advanced users as it is a reference and `step-by-step' tutorial rolled in one.  One of my favorite things about the book is that each chapter is embedded with 'best practices' that contain a lot of useful gems, especially for more advanced users that just skim through the book.<br />The final chapter of the book puts everything that you've learned from the previous chapters together into a complete J2EE application.  The sample application, which is included on the CD is a Web-based auction system.  A must-read for anyone that wants to learn everything they need about J2EE.	2001-08-22
