US	53036456	RGTTT9ZIA88H0	0375508112	48126929	Strand of a Thousand Pearls: A Novel	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Magical realism that goes off the deep end	This is the story of the Azizyan family, the parents having emigrated from Iran to Israel as children, raising a family of five of their own, four daughters and a son.  At its heart, the plot revolves around the cause of the mother's nervous breakdown - the screwiness and screw-ups of her children, as well as her reluctance to see her children grow up.  When they are young she weaves golden stories about their future weddings, but the reality is much different.  The father is a quiet unassuming figure, mostly absent in his long hours as a fisherman.  <br />The magical realism style of the book is both charming and infuriating.  For example, we are promised a potentially interesting extended family, full of humor and interesting customs, but the characterizations are often too flimsy and the craziness of the children is often more than one can swallow. It tips the scales into just too much grief.  Also, the youngest child's mental illness does not fit this format well.  It is treated in too light a matter as though it will just blow away like all the other problems in the book, as alluded to by one of the daughters.  However, mental illness does not simply resolve itself, and the ambiguous, and in my opinion, unsatisfactory ending reflects this.  <br />Having said all that, what saves the book is the language.  Translated in this version from Hebrew to English, it reflects well on Rabinyan as a poetess and wordsmith, and despite the characterizations, there is a lot that to delight in.  It is a quick read also and worth the time spent.	2002-07-09
US	53036456	R3JT9EZ3OYTAJD	0393043487	156190911	Servants of the Map: Stories	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Meditation on a worthwhile life	Spanning 200 years, the stories of Servants of the Map, address issues of personal discovery against a backdrop of the scientific and natural world.   Barrett is strongest with her historical settings, where time moves more slowly and there is more solitary introspection.  We can better hear the poetic expression of quietly falling snow or the wind in the trees.  Yet the strongest statement the book makes, including the contemporary stories, is the almost invisible thread that binds the characters to each other and to history.  Diaries, letters, old notebooks, and old memories amplify the connections.  Whether it is Max , the 1861 surveyor of the Himalayas or his wife Clara many years later in another story in America, two sisters with two different lives in two different stories, and the same for a separated brother and sister, the search for identity and the yearning for a life that matters and that is authentic is universal.  Nor does Barrett stop there.  For example, the last story, The Cure, brings back Nora from the haunting title story of her last collection, Ship Fever, and also refers obliquely to characters from her novel, The Voyage of the Narwhal.   This new collection is an eloquent companion to those earlier works.  After reading the stories, you feel like you have shared in a personal meditation with these characters.	2002-03-09
US	53036456	R3KWA64UU2YNQ7	1573222011	510182268	The Illuminated Soul	Books	3	6	7	N	Y	Illuminating subject	This new novel, much like Stollman's first novel, The Far Euphrates, tells the story of a religious Jewish family in quiet Windsor, Ontario, Canada  post World Ward II, who become involved in a spiritual quest that intersects with the aftermath and implications of the Holocaust.  However, The Illuminated Soul is written much more as a fable.  A beautiful young woman, Eva Laquedem, a refugee from Prague, comes to live with the Ivri family under unusual circumstances.  She imbues them with fanciful tales, while bearing a valuable Jewish text that belongs to her father, Enoch Laquedem, a Jewish scholar.   The work is called the Augsberg Miscellany and consists of all the ancient holy books plus the commentary of its originator, one Alexander Augsberg, plus scholarly writings by Enoch. Enoch's guiding theme is that the age of the prophets is over and that prophecy will only continue now through the \\"illumination\\" of the ancient texts.  His own contribution begins with a mystical interpretation of  the \\"pillar of cloud\\" that descended over the Ark and the Children of Israel as they wandered in the desert.<br />Beyond the over arching spiritual theme are the human stories.  There is Joseph, the narrator, now an old man, a famous scientist and author of a book of mysticism, looking back to his childhood, his dreams and regrets.  We meet his younger self, his widowed mother, his younger brother who is slowly going blind, and see Joseph's unspoken love for Eva.   Then there is Eva herself, her wandering around the globe, sort of like a metaphor of the Biblical wandering, her determination to complete her father's work, her secrets and her private torments.<br />Stollman is fascinated in, although he does not specifically say, in an almost Kabbalistic fashion in the hidden meanings of the Torah as well as deciphering the text and the language for the pure joy of it.  However, he does not hesitate to also tie in the literature or fables of other cultures, such as Tales of theGenji and stories that Eva invents.  Although I appreciate the attempt, for me the novel never succeeds in tying all the elements together and making the connections.  Nevertheless,  I would recommend this short novel because of the worthy subject matter and the questions it raises.	2002-03-05
US	53036456	R330VZARVDUQP7	0312275528	82836298	Gramercy Park	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Well written historical and psychological thriller	This is an enveloping and well written historical and psychological thriller, full of atmosphere and suspense.  From the first pages of \\"Gramercy Park\\" what immediately comes to mind is Edith Wharton and Henry James with vivid descriptions of places and persons, and full of irony.  Set in 1894, in New York, it is a classic story of hypocrisy and rigid class rules among Mrs. Astor's high society set.   Upsetting the social structure is the intrusion of a famous Italian opera star, Mario Alfieri, who is making his U.S. debut.  He both titillates and disrupts the status quo by not observing their rules, and especially by marrying a strange social outcast, a young woman and a Jewess by the name of Clara Adler, the former ward of the recently deceased philanthropist, Henry Slade.  Clara is by all accounts less than extraordinary,  of questionable mental and physical health, and with a mysterious and perhaps sullied background. It also turns out that Henry Slade has surprisingly disinherited her.  Taking advantage of Clara is an evil nemesis, lawyer Thaddeus Chadwick, and his sidekick, Lucy Pratt, both enraged by Clara's good fortune in marrying Alfieri, and determined to destroy them both.  As the story evolves, the happy couple's lives become more and more of a nightmare, while Chadwick and Lucy plot their harm.  Although the reader will smell a rat early on, the story's secrets are uncovered slowly and tantalizingly, and keep the reader turning the pages.	2002-02-26
US	53036456	R3KF0PMUDZCYSU	0525945814	101423143	Falling Angels: A Novel	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Enchanting, enthralling, highly moving	I think of Falling Angels as a small treasure much the way I think of Chevalier's Girl With a Pearl Earring, two very different stories. Both are historical set pieces that have the gift of giving the reader a sense of immediacy.   The reader is invited into the lives of two upper middle class families, particularly the females, one family following the status quo and one the unconventional as well as intellectual.  The story spans a period of approximately ten years, the pivotal years between the death of Queen Victoria and her son King Edward VI, pivotal years for young girls coming of age in a new century with new rules, new possibilities, and new dangers.  Each chapter is like a vignette into these lives that forces readers  to draw their own conclusions as to what it all means.  The story starts off slowly and much of it takes place in a cemetery in London modeled after the cemetery at Highgate. The physical and social life of the city come alive, cemetery and all, from the East End to the North of London, from Marble Arch to Hyde Park and a famous gathering of the Suffragette movement.  It looks at first like a story about trivialities, about childhood games and squabbles and social snobbery, but ends with the deliverance of several punches that will leave the reader staggering and awed for a long time to come.  A very moving work from a masterful storyteller.	2002-02-26
US	53036456	R3CFW8L1H68BX7	0066209463	250779400	Middle Age: A Romance	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Classic Oates!	Middle Age, as in all Joyce Carol Oates stories and novels, operates on many levels.  I will, therefore, try to give an overall sense without overwhelming.  For those who like their classic Oates, it is all here in a big sprawling novel, a moral tale that combines realism, with fable, fantasy,  humor, and horror, and set in an upstate New York village.   The central character, the much beloved Adam Berendt, dies in the first chapter, and the rest of the novel is consumed by getting at the mystery of who he really was and what he meant to his bereaved  friends and neighbors.  <br />The trick was to discover Adam  by letting other characters speak for him.  Since most, if not all, were almost irrationally taken with him, they may not be the most objective revealers, so finally I had a hard time taking their word that he was really that mesmerizing.   However, as always, the writing is so brilliant and so original, so revelatory in other ways about human nature, about a tight claustrophobic community, the inspirational and the dark side of the human character, that it almost doesn't matter. One is willing to take it on faith. <br />Oates always love to surprise and she does so expertly as she weaves her spell with each of the characters.  Ultimately, Adam Berendt must remain at least a partial mystery because he can't speak for himself, but it is his friends on whom he had this mysterious impact who will all confront life-challenging changes, or middle age crises as the case may be, before the novel's end, and about whom we really want to know more.	2002-01-31
US	53036456	R374QS9QW5ZBPB	0385502761	841891973	Look at Me	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An American novel for our time	Look at Me is more than a pretty face as the title and plot line would have us initially believe.  There are two parallel stories, about two Charlottes, whose lives intersect very briefly, but whose very names call us to a comparison.  The first Charlotte is the New York model whose face is destroyed in a car accident at the beginning of the novel while on the road to her hometown in Rockford, Illinois.  The second Charlotte is a teenager living in Rockford, the daughter of the model's childhood friend, and by implication, a namesake.  For the younger Charlotte it is a tender and painful coming of age story, yet one which the reader senses may turn out better than the older woman's.  <br />Along the way, there are several other memorable character portraits, among them: Pluto, the homeless man; Ellen, the childhood friend; Ricky, Ellen's son ; Anthony Halliday, the detective; Oscar, the agent; and Irene, the professor/writer.  <br />Beyond the characters and the basic plot, we are treated to a complex novel which explores themes and issues of image versus substance,  the industrial age versus the information age, and how changes in America over the last century for better and worse impact personal lives.   Not surprisingly, we have a story that takes place in the place which dictates change, New York City, and the recipient of the new order, middle America, in this case represented by Rockford.  The story of the industrial revolution's triumph and dissolution is seen through the eyes of a pathetic history professor. The story of the new order is represented by the multimedia virtual world of reality TV/internet/commercialism, where the model Charlotte's life becomes its fodder.  There is a portending of where this will all lead in the face of unforeseen outside forces, in the case of the novel, the terrorist who lives among  us, an eerily prescient view, written before and published on the eve of 9-11.	2002-01-06
US	53036456	R60XOPLHQUL8J	0374100128	647099960	The Corrections	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	An important, original, and entertaining achievement	This is an important novel for the 21st century. We've heard statements like that and here is why it's true for The Corrections.  What we look for in a great novel is originality, brilliant writing, a compelling story, with a truthful message.  Jonathan Franzen has achieved all of that.<br />The Corrections is a sprawling novel which abounds in a myriad of physical and psychological detail and allusions, character interconnections and parallel connections, which can be discussed incessantly and reworked in one's mind, the kind of thing that cult followers adore in their favorite authors.<br />While a lot of the word play and the antics of the characters provide comic relief and entertainment, and remind us of the absurdities of existence, at its core it is the relationships, especially the ways in which father, mother, sons, and daughter reflect each other that stay with us, that make the novel worth reading.  In the end, we can say we have seen our friends and family and ourselves for better or worse through the eyes of these characters.	2001-12-10
US	53036456	RAX0SZYR649QS	0679005455	99306120	Fodor's London 2001: Completely Updated Every Year, Color Photos and Pull-Out Map, Smart Travel Tips from A to Z (Travel Guide)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	My London bible	Having been to London twice in 2001, I can say that I relied heavily on my Fodor's.  It gives you clear concise, and most importantly, accurate information on almost any topic or question. For example, I did not believe them when they said you should reserve ahead for Buckingham Palace.  Sadly, they were right, and I could not get tickets. They also told me that I would probably not be able to visit the Millenium Dome as it was closed and up for sale.  London is arranged by neighborhoods, so the first part of the book dealing with sightseeing is arranged accordingly. There is a large foldout map in a back pocket, but also each section gives you small maps, which are arranged so that you can do a self-guided walking tour.  I found these quite invaluable.  I did look at the restaurant section for a general impression, but did not rely on the restaurant or hotel section, although one could. This forms the second half of the book.  However, in the back there is also information about shopping, outdoor life, activities for kids, and at the very back an index of vital information, everything from how to use buy a London Travel Card, how to change money, or make an international call.	2001-12-10
US	53036456	R2F8H81G3YWIUE	0385313667	190979319	Total Recall (A V.I. Warshawski Novel)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Compelling and satisfying read	This is my first reading of a Sara Paretsky novel. I was drawn to Total Recall not only by the Paretsky name, but by the Holocaust topic.   Characterization and plot drive all novels, and are crucial in keeping our interest in a mystery.  This is my first introduction to V. I. Warshawski, and I see what her fans are raving about.  She is a strong determined detective in a man's world.  She has a life outside of work, a journalist boyfriend, her friends Max and Lotty, her pet dogs who run her in circles, and she looks like a pretty good cook, not to mention that she speaks fluent Italian.  She isn't perfect.  She drives like a maniac, can display a temper if messed with, is known to sometimes break into buildings illegally, and admits she knows nothing about skiing, but her sense of integrity is always in the right place; she even tries to save a dangerous and delusional man's life at one point.  <br />Lotty's character as a child of those who perished in the Holocaust, and revealed to us in stages through her diary is so believable that it gave me goose bumps.   Making Lotty the narrator in part instead of Vic throughout the entire book really added psychological insight that might not have been achieved without her voice speaking to us, especially since she was so secretive about the war years and early post war years.   <br />Other characters, such as the haughty Bertrand Rossy and his wife Fillida, particularly depicted with V.I.'s insights at a dinner party, were entertaining and chilling at the same time.   The list goes on.<br />Finally, the plots - insurance fraud, the Chicago political machinery, recovery of Holocaust assets, as well as recovery of  repressed memories  are all hot and timely topics that dovetail surprisingly well, but keep you guessing as to how it's all going to play out.   Bottom line - I plan to read more Paretsky and especially more V.I. Warshawski.	2001-11-19
US	53036456	R2QI72VDUPY3AZ	0316158720	639679794	The Archivist	Books	5	5	6	N	N	An intellectual romance	An intellectual romance<br />The Archivist is a brilliant psychological and parallel portrayal of  two marriages plus &quot;the other woman&quot; and only secondarily about the preservation of rare books and documents.  Bear in mind that one of these marriages is a famous one, that of the poet T. S. Eliot and his wife.  Also bear in mind that the parallels are not complete.  Nevertheless, it is an artistic device that works well here, as each &quot;trio&quot; is a reflection of the other and a means to an understanding of each other.  Therefore, the reader is more than willing to accept the parallels, even where it stretches imagination.  The novel has a moody introspective quality which match personalities and historical setting, but also makes it feel closer akin to a European novel.  Perhaps this is purposeful as Eliot was an American expatriot, although he is only a ghost of a character and does not actually appear, and other characters have parents with roots in Europe.<br />Unfortunately I am not familiar enough with Eliot's life to say how much of the biographical details are accurate or conjecture.  In other words, his wife did have a breakdown and I believe was institutionalized, as was the narrator's wife.  As to the actual existence of Eliot's third woman, let alone a cache of letters between them, I cannot comment on.  There are more quoted lines from W. H. Auden than from Eliot, however.  It would probably enhance one's appreciation of the novel to know more about Eliot's life as well as his poetry, although you don't have to in order to deeply appreciate the book with its fine writing, brilliant insights and characters who actually think.  In fact, Matt, the narrator, would argue that biographical details should remain in the private domain; we don't need to know them; and he has concluded that the poems are all that matters, although his young friend and &quot;other woman&quot;, Roberta, has concluded otherwise.	2001-11-16
US	53036456	RO6C8HD24U6YU	0399146431	745329531	The Bonesetter's Daughter	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Another sucess!	The Bonesetter's Daughter succeeds superbly by continuing the theme of Amy Tan's The Joy Luck Club and The Kitchen God's Wife, but with different characters and a different story.  In those novels Chinese American children, particularly daughters, are excavating their ancestral roots.   Again, in her new novel, Amy Tan is focusing on mother-daughter relationships, a secretive mother, and a daughter who must discover those secrets in order to heal childhood wounds, reconcile with the mother, and resolve adult relationships.  <br />The story divides into three sections, the first and third set in the present, and narrated by daughter Ruth Young, a counselor and ghost writer of self help books, who has a long-term live-in relationship with a Jewish man and is a second mother of sorts to his two daughters.  The middle section takes place in China and is the story of Ruth's mother and grandmother.  It is actually Mrs. Young's journal.   The first section sets the stage, shows us Ruth in the present and also Ruth as a child at critical junctures.  Amy Tan adds another element to the story, that of Mrs. Young's Alzheimer's disease, which lends poignancy as well as urgency to the discovery and translation of her journal.<br />As we enter her mother's life story the mystery of her seemingly (to Ruth) irrational or eccentric behavior as a mother starts to make sense and feels like the pieces of a jigsaw puzzle being filled in.  One example is the tradition of sand drawing in order to divine the intent of the gods, which was common in Mrs. Young's childhood in China, and which she foists upon a reluctant Ruth from time to time.<br />As the story comes back into the present in the third section, the focus is three-fold, wrapping up the plot,  but also showing us a realistic and compassionate portrait of an Alzheimer patient and the family who have to deal with a dreaded disease, as well as the hurdles of prejudice and misunderstanding that immigrants have to deal with, and theadjustments that they make in order to survive.  As Ruth discovers through the journal, her mother is not just &quot;eccentric&quot; or &quot;crazy&quot;, but a lot of her mysterious behavior is rooted in Chinese tradition and in the unearthed secrets of her family history.   Ruth has been given a gift beyond measure.	2001-11-16
US	53036456	R1VHCXCAEMOPC2	0743225325	715979019	Good Harbor: A Novel	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Light reading but enjoyable	You have to realize going into this book that it is not going to be of the caliber of &quot;The Red Tent.&quot;  For beginners, this is a modern novel and for better or worse, is going to be categorized as a woman's book.  That's okay with me; I love women's literature.  The problem is that it attempts to be deeper than it is.  The writing is adequate, but formula.  However, it does do all the right things in terms of plot construction and still manages to succeed in the relationship between the two main characters, Kathleen and Joyce, whom I thought were believable and authentic.  The subject of two friends leading real lives with real problems, being able to confide in each other more than their husbands is one that I think resonates with a lot of people.   I did find myself reading on, sort of like Kathleen reading Joyce's novel, because I cared and wanted to find out what happened to them.	2001-11-16
US	53036456	R23ORTZ6MXRVC4	0375420908	875097955	Flights of Love: Stories	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Powerful and compelling stories	Bernard Schlink has done it again: created a small masterpiece, with this group of seven short stories. Their strength derives from the rigorous psychological self examination that each of his middle-aged or older male protagonists is forced to undergo.  Most of the stories are set totally or partially in modern day Germany, some against the post Holocaust or post reunification backdrop, but all against the universal backdrop of human relationships.  I would argue that the common thread is less about love, despite the title, and more about the  search for self authenticity.  My choice for the best of the seven are &quot;Girl with Lizard&quot; and &quot;The Circumcision&quot;, but if you're going to read one, you should read all of it.  The stories are unusual, original, and powerful with lots of layers, and worth several re-readings.	2001-11-08
US	53036456	R19BJARSEYW20B	0060194170	489274794	About the Author	Books	4	0	0	N	N	An original literary mystery	A strange twist of fate provides Cal Cunningham, who has suffered for years from writer's block, with the manuscript that will catapult him to fame, fortune and a great marriage.  However, it is all built on a lie that could come crashing down on his head at any time.  Aside from the story line, it is also a cynical insider view of the publishing world. At turns funny and wacky, at others macabre, and once again introspective, this perfectly plotted novel within a novel is a nail biter that will keep you guessing at what happens next and keep you reading.	2001-10-03
US	53036456	R2LY1E8TNSKCVK	0743411323	184600193	Never Change	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Heartwarming and honest	While I cried a few tears, this is not a sad book.  The plot is that of a 51-year-old never married and socially isolated nurse, who finds love with a terminally ill patient, who is coincidentally a former classmate -  the high school heart throb she could never have back when.  I give this story high marks for bordering on sentimentality but remaining honest. There is also a nice balance struck between sadness and humor.   I know people who are just like the nurse in this story.  She is valiant but not perfect, in other words, the way humans are supposed to be.  I especially liked the relationship with her potential rival, and how two mature women put their own self interest and their past behind them to focus on the needs of their ill friend.  A fine lesson about love, friendship, and coming to terms with death.	2001-10-02
US	53036456	R3KIN6L24JRYAW	0385502605	783524758	Coldwater	Books	3	2	2	N	N	The Bronte sisters in Australia	What I didn't realize immediately when I began to read Coldwater, is that it is a combination of two stories - an imagined life of the famous Bronte sisters with a reordering of known facts including the setting - an Australian  penal colony in the 1840s.   The Bronte sisters' life admittedly had an early appeal for the author. Why an Australian penal colony she doesn't say, although she does add a historical note about a penal colony administrator with the name McConnochie: an ancestor, perhaps?  <br />Author's motivations aside, she  does make the effort to combine historical fact with a psychological portrait by dividing the story into a series of journal entries by and about the sisters and about convict life, as well as journal and incident reports by the father, who is the commanding officer.  While the characters and relationships in the family are believably drawn, the plot drags at times and barely sustains our interest.  The family is given most of the attention.  The officers and convicts are given little space, except as a historical focal point.  The psychology of this writerly family tyrannized by their mad father, and the examination of the cruelty with which he administers the penal colony lie at the heart of the novel.  We are meant to come to the conclusion that the sisters are as much prisoners as the prisoners themselves on this remote island.  However, it seems to me that tackling either the Bronte sisters in their original setting in Yorkshire, England or an Australian penal colony with a different cast of characters instead of throwing together such disparate topics would make a more cohesive book. Each is certainly worthy of its own study.	2001-09-20
US	53036456	R172WODE167CDJ	0871137534	441036137	The Dress Lodger	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Captivating historical timepiece	The Dress Lodger is a vivid description of life in fictional Sunderland, a small city in early 19th century England. A strong concoction of well-defined characters is served up, primarily Henry Chiver, physician, his fiancee, Audrey Place, and Gustine, the dress lodger (prostitute), who has a crush on him and procures corpses for his students to dissect. A gritty and uncompromising look at a society struggling toward the modern age, but bitten by plague and still entrapped in superstition, class inequality, poverty and economic woes. At times it is hard for the reader to become immersed in the mindset of some of the odder characters, yet it is a satisfying well written novel, and worth persisting with to the end.	2001-08-29
US	53036456	R4L3F1LO87H61	0393050424	759689844	The Death of Vishnu: A Novel	Books	4	3	5	N	N	The Death of Vishnu	In this complex novel, which on the surface does not appear to be about very much (at first),  we eventually realize that we are observing a struggle to rise above the mundane and attain  spiritual fulfillment.  The lives of the residents, alternately presented comically and seriously, of one apartment building in Bombay represent the rungs on that spiritual ladder literally and figuratively.  Those on the lower floors are less advanced, those on the upper floors and those trying to climb to the upper are more enlightened.   The main plot lines - what to do with Vishnu, the handyman, who is dying out on the landing and may already be dead; the standing feud of the Pathaks and the Asranis; Mr. Jalal's crazed spiritual quest; the elopement of two young residents of different religions, Salim and Kavita, and its repercussions.<br />The theme plays out with a mixture of realism, religious tradition and mythology, much as the two are intertwined in Indian society, but at times it looks like the author's real purpose is to address the absurdities and problems of life in India: the clash between Hindu and Moslem,  superstition and science, castes, rich and poor, modern and traditional;  arranged marriages, death and grieving, housing inadequacies, medical inadequacies, corruption in high places that prevent things like lack of sewers from getting remedied.  The list goes on.<br />I believe an understanding of Hinduism will provide an even greater dimension to the book, but it is not a prerequisite to a general understanding and appreciative read.	2001-08-09
US	53036456	RUSAQ0MY2WKBY	0060188731	546555129	Bel Canto: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	An allegory for our time	When a hostage taking situation develops at a party held in the vice president's home in an unnamed South American country (based on a real life event in 1996 in Peru), and featuring a world famous opera singer, the hostages and those being held are forced to re-evaluate the meaning of life, as each side meets the unknown element in the other, including the fact that there are people from multiple cultures speaking several different languages.  Love and music, the bel canto, become the primary life sustaining forces, the common denominators. Although lighthearted in tone, there is an undercurrent which tells you that this unexpectedly idyllic cocoon cannot last.   A clever and original work of magical realism that will also make the reader take stock.	2001-08-09
US	53036456	R24Q6YDS75BCUU	0399148027	453088490	Blue Diary	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Sad, yet beautiful and uplifting story	When Ethan Ford is arrested for rape and murder, the sleepy town of Monroe, Massachusetts is in a state of shock.  He is the ultimate Mr. Good Guy, good neighbor, town hero, model father, and adoring husband.  Yet, as the story evolves, it seems that Ethan Ford was someone entirely different.  In the hands of any other author, this could have been a trite murder mystery-soap drama. However, this author combines consummate writing skills and vivid imagery with an understanding of the human heart that will keep you turning the pages.  Fine writing doesn't get much better than this.  I can't believe it has taken me this long to read anything by Alice Hoffman, but I have already run to the library to get more of her books!	2001-07-25
US	53036456	R3O38A3LNPAIPW	067084134X	855770597	Ravelstein	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Another Bellow masterpiece	Once again, Bellow hits a home run with his main character - Ravelstein, based on the real life philosopher and U of Chicago professor Allen Bloom.  The book, like most of Bellow's other novels is a philosophical treatise and pseudo-biography disguised as a novel.  The Bellow-like narrator, named Chick, old friend and colleague, has been annointed by Ravelstein to be his biographer. The writing is strong, the characters, even minor ones fully realized.<br />The story operates in flashbacks and anecdotes as Ravelstein has died six years earlier of AIDS.  We come to gradually know Ravelstein as Chick struggles to write the biography, define Ravelstein's character, and his contributions.  We learn that of his lament for the loss of   liberal arts appreciation in America,  his reliance on the principles of Plato and the Greek classics, and his preference for all things French.  We see his love of antiques, silk shirts and sheets, as well as the Chicago Bulls basketball team, and we meet the admiring friends and students that he surrounds himself with, some also based on real life figures.  We also see him struggle with illness - first with Guillain-Barre syndrome, later with HIV and AIDS.<br />While much of the book is dominated by the Ravelstein character, a brilliant political thinker and philosopher, it is as much a book about Chick, who is no slouch himself, also a gifted teacher and scholar, although at times overshadowed by the loud, opinionated, ever charming Ravelstein.    There is an obvious symbiotic cast to the relationship, which both are aware of,  and which informs the developing biography.  The last fifty pages focus mainly on Chick as he contracts a rare disease and has to fight for his life a la Ravelstein. And Ravelstein is not entirely gone.  He comes back to Chick in visions and  imaginary conversations. <br />Yet Chick has something that Ravelstein seems not to have found: true love and a happy marriage.  For above all, he admits to Chick that loveand longing top the list of life's priorities, and although in an ambiguous (to Ravelstein's friends, that is)  homosexual relationship, he claims that love has eluded him.<br />There is another important thread that runs through the story, in fact a continuing Bellow theme.  Ravelstein and Chick both American Jews, grapple with the effects of the holocaust and near extermination of the Jewish people on surviving generations, and what a Jew's role in the world ought to be.<br />This is the warning that Ravelstein gives to Chick when he befriends a former Nazi sympathizer turned historian and lover of mythology: &quot;The Jews had better understand their status with respect to myth.  Why should they have any truck with myth? It was myth that demonized them...&quot;.  <br />At the beginning of the new century, Bellow's literature continues to stand above the pack as an advocate of the search for truth and pursuing humanity's highest moral values.	2001-07-13
US	53036456	R1NAD76DCCSN4R	0802733573	376154080	Ex-Libris: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A mad mysterious book journey	In an age of new inventions from the mundane to the celestial, Europe in 1660 was presaging the modern world.  However, the battle between Protestant and Catholic dominion was still waging, and  whoever could win that fight would have control of a European empire.   In the balance, hung the fate of the libraries of Constantinople, Prague, the Vatican, and Spain, some still on the Inquisition's hit list called The Index.  Whoever controlled these books controlled the flow of knowledge as the battleground really evolved as science versus religion.  <br />Into the foray steps Isaac Inchbold, mild-mannered London bookseller, widower, and homebody.  His quiet life is disrupted when Alethea Plessington, also known as Lady Marchamont, calls upon him to retrieve a missing rare book called &quot;The Labyrinth of the World&quot; from her father's library and ruined estate.<br />Thus begins a wild journey and wild goose chase for Inchbold and a course of events that flip flops between 1660 England and 1620 Prague.  Along the way are robberies and ransackings, lots of hair raising chases, a book auction, and several book rescues from the Thirty Years War, from Cromwell's England, as well as the world's waterways.  <br />The book overall has something for everyone and is generally well-crafted.  Bibliophiles will relish the details on old libraries containing works from Aristotle to the occult, on mapmaking, on bookbinding and palimpsets (hidden texts).   History and military buffs will enjoy the  battle descriptions, the detailed description of 1660 London, and the historical tidbits about Sir Walter Raleigh's expeditions.<br />However, I do agree with other reviewers that this reading requires patience and that the plot tends to become overly convoluted and bogged down in too much detail at times (the richness of detail is conversely also a strength of the book). Neverthess, I would recommend take what you can, enjoy the ride, and leave the rest.   The story is ultimately great fun.	2001-06-25
US	53036456	R2PB9HVVZU1IXI	0375421041	27158829	The Dark Room: A Novel	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A must read!	Three stories about the effects of the holocaust on three German (non-Jewish) families:  The first two are from the point of view of children and young people who are witness to war and brutality, not entirely cognizant of their meaning, who endure their own suffering, albeit never suggested by the author to be the equivalent of what the Nazis inflicted.  The first is about a handicapped young photographer, who stumbles with his camera on violent scenes and mass exoduses at a train station and who also survives the Berlin bombing.  The second story is about a family of five children, left to make their hazardous way across Germany at the end of the war through four occupation zones until they can reach their grandmother in Hamburg.  The third and longest story, which encompasses almost the entire second half of the book, takes a different approach with a probing theme.  This story takes place in the present day and the narrator, Micha, is an adult who is trying to find out if his grandfather killed Jews when he was an SS officer in the Ukraine during the war.  Although the writing, particularly the dialogue in this story, is a little awkward at times  and the speakers hard to keep straight, overall it succeeds with its message.  Most questions and thoughts that might go through anyone's mind are examined here.  Without giving away what happens, I think it would be safe to say, that Micha finds out that there can never be a satisfactory answer to why evil takes place.  I highly recommend the vision of this book and the treatment of a volatile subject in a subtle, emotionally complex, and sensitive manner with a different viewpoint.	2001-06-06
US	53036456	R1D87QI7TXGLWS	0743203232	615922706	The Nature of Water and Air	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A compelling read!	Spanning the twenty years from 1960 to 1981, we enter the timeless magic of Ireland, a story that could take place now or in almost another century.   Clodaugh Sheehy straddles two worlds, that of the genteel and that of the tinker (people sometimes referred to as Ireland's gypsies). <br />Even before Clodaugh's birth, events are set in motion that will determine her own destiny.    Once Frank Sheehy, the frail- hearted father dies, Clodaugh's aunts can no longer abide his wife, the wild tinker woman, Agatha, and they banish her from the West of Ireland to their empy house on the eastern coast, where she gives birth to twin daughters, the feisty precocious Clodaugh, and a sickly sister, Mary, called Mare.  Agatha likes pretty dresses and trinkets, but she also likes to roam near the sea and out in the fields, seeking the campfires and caravans of the tinkers she lived with as a girl until she met Frank Sheehy.  Clodaugh and Mare are  mostly left to their own devices except for the kindly care of a house servant, Mrs. O'Dare.  At age five, Mare dies, and the distraught and lonely Clodaugh abandons for a time the piano they played together, feels Mare inside herself at times, and wants to cleave even more strongly to her mother.  However, when Agatha walks into the sea for the last time, Clodaugh is now truly alone and has to grow up.  She gives up her belief in ghosts and selkies, tries to forget Agatha and Mare, and attends the convent school, where she proves herself to be an accomplished musician on the piano.  She goes on to win a prestigious award at college and her destiny seems secure and certain until the call of the tinker life and in particular, the chance meeting with a copper-haired man named Angus threatens to undermine everything.<br />Told in a straightforward, yet heartbreaking manner, part mythic, almost every line stirs with poetry, undoubtedly inspired by the Yeats which Angus quotes to Clodaugh, but probably also by the author's own poetic background, as well as the land itself, where sea and sky meet and one can almost imagine a woman who is half seal and half woman swimming on the tides.   Amazingly, the story, saturated as it is with sentimentality, still manages to strike just the right tone and keep the reader's interest throughout.	2001-05-26
US	53036456	R2XRJO9JH60YGL	0670894486	923667382	After You'd Gone	Books	5	17	18	N	N	A compelling and compulsive read!	Alice is a 28-year-old young woman who tells us on page one that she took a train from London to Scotland on the day she decided to kill herself.   It won't do you any good to skip to the end to find out why.  This isn't that kind of story and the answer is not all that simple, although at first you might suspect it to be.  The plot is ordered in a deliberate, yet natural way that jumps back and forth in time through the eyes of Alice, her mother, her grandmother, and her husband until the individual pieces add up to our total understanding.  Each little vignette is also a fascinating character study in which the reader is invited to look and draw his/her own conclusions.<br />A story of deep complexity and maturity, it is hard to believe that this is Maggie O'Farrell's first novel.  It has all the elements of  great literature, love and loss, trust and betrayal, and the sins of one generation visited upon the next.  Yet the writing flows naturally and easily.  I found it a compulsive read.  I was so involved with the characters that I could not leave them alone for long until I reached the last page.  I highly recommend this one and look forward to more of this author's work.	2001-05-19
US	53036456	R1D1OI9274XULL	158243123X	607572582	A Student of Weather	Books	5	43	43	N	N	Brilliant, emotionally gripping story	This little story was truly a wonderful surprise.  I expected a cozy little family saga, but got much more. This quiet unassuming novel about ordinary people builds slowly into a gripping tale that once it gets going is impossible to put down.<br />It begins in 1938 on a farm in Saskatchewan, Canada with two lonely motherless sisters, nine years apart in age and worlds apart in looks and personality.   Norma Joyce is small, dark, wiry, homely, inquisitive, provocative, and restless, while older sister Lucinda is a ravishing redhead, quiet, serene, the hard working homemaker for father and younger sister.  Although Norma is just a kid, when Maurice Dove, a 'student of weather' visits the farm, both sisters, each in their own way, fall desperately in love with him, a love to last a lifetime, but with tragic consequences. The presence of Maurice will be the wedge that drives the sisters apart and alters the family fate, although the personality of each character will also determine the outcome of the story, which later shifts to Ottawa and  then alternates between Ottawa and New York City.<br />What makes this novel stand out from the crowd aside from its careful plotting and lovely descriptive passages about foliage, flora, and of course weather, are the ways in which the author makes brilliant use of small  details of personality  and psychology to drive what would otherwise be an ordinary story into high gear and to create unforgettable complex characters.  She gets it right on target, too, so much so, that the reader feels that he/she is a witness to real peoples' lives.  This book is one of my top picks of the year!	2001-05-09
US	53036456	R3VQP50XAKIB5Y	0374155062	611027008	Fish, Blood, and Bone	Books	5	16	20	N	N	Intelligent literary thriller	Fish, blood, and bone make good fertilizer for Claire Fleetwood's garden.  So says Sally, the caretaker of the garden on the property that Claire inherits from relatives she never knew, but Sally is murdered on page one, and Claire finds out that her inheritance - the garden, the house, tenants, and the heritage may not be such a blessing after all.   Inside the house is a diary belonging to Magda Ironstone (circa 1880's), former owner of the property, who may or may not be Claire's ancestor, and a gruesome collection belonging to Magda's husband, Joseph, found in the cellar.  Soon after Sally's murder, more unsavory shadowy characters start showing up, and the estate seems truly haunted.<br />The story shifts to India, to the Fleetwood opium plantation, and the book travels back to the time of Magda to tell her story, actually shifting back and forth between the 1880's and the 1980's. This, section, in my opinion, is the best part of the book.  Magda is a beguiling character, and her voice lifts out of the pages of her diary into the present.  Claire travels to India to begin a journey that will retrace Magda's footsteps, and wind up with cousin Jack Ironstone, on an illegal expedition into Tibet to search for the legendary green poppy which may contain a cure for cancer, besides being a hallucinogenic.  <br />Part historic novel, part genealogy quest, part mystery/thriller, part botany and genetics lesson, this fanciful story has a lot of  threads which may boggle some readers' minds but will delight anybody who craves untangling the challenges of  a big  rambling intellectual whodunit.  As a bonus, there is also a new twist on the Jack the Ripper stories.	2001-05-09
US	53036456	R28HUB14XFJ7XL	0385334168	982738568	Paradise Park	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Paradise Park partially succeeds as offbeat comedy	Allegra Goodman has chosen offbeat comedy, with a wacky heroine floundering admidst the tourist traps, quasi-religionists, therapists, and marine biologists of Hawaii to explore her favorite theme of the modern religious experience, and particularly the Jewish experience. It is the 1970's and Sharon Spiegelman is a twenty-something druggie hippie, happy-go-lucky Boston University drop-out (actually kicked out) folk dancer, who follows her boyfriend out to Hawaii and then gets dumped by him.  To Sharon's credit, she doesn't run back home (actually she doesn't have much of a home to go to), but there is little else she does right. Sharon's aspirations are pretty nil. She remains in Hawaii working at a series of  low paying jobs, funny and pathetic, and mostly hanging around people who are as shallow as she is.  When she goes on a whale watch she claims to have a religious experience and tries everything from an evangelical church (where she is saved for a day) to a Buddhist monastery, where she is a flop. With each new religion she feels that this is it, but alas, nothing sticks to Sharon. At this point the reader may be tempted to throw the book down and say they've had it with Sharon.  On the upside she questions and challenges and shows an independence of spirit; albeit often obnoxiously so, but she doesn't know how to use those abilities in a  beneficial way to foster real growth.  On the downside she is buffeted and taken advantage of by everyone and anyone, cries and whines about it, then sets off on another quest.  Goodman's goal is to bring Sharon back to her unknown Jewish roots, but even that experience is at first also elusive, if not ridiculous.<br />Years later, becoming a 'committed' Hassidic Jew in Crown Heights (Brooklyn), New York, Sharon is starting to grow up, and really feels that this time she has found her true identity and spiritual home.   When she meets her 'bashert', destined soul-mate, Russian immigrant, Mikhail, another Hassid and classicalmusician, living in Boston, the stars all look like they are lining up in Sharon's support, but it is evidently not meant to be.  It turns out that Mikhail's dead mother was a Jewish convert, and the Crown Heights Hassids are in a uproar. They question the validity of the conversion.  The couple cannot marry!  Well, for once Sharon uses her obstinacy and independence to show some inner strength.  She and Mikhail run away (to Boston) and marry anyway.  They wind up, not Hassidic, nevertheless happily Jewish with their own community, family, and lifestyle. Sharon also makes peace with the parents who abandoned her years earlier.<br />Not as well written or having the impact of her first novel, 'Kaaterskill Falls', 'Paradise Park' is a closer relative stylistically to her short stories, where Sharon Spiegelman makes an earlier appearance. Yet, it succeeds in evoking the often less than lofty experiences of American religious and spiritual seekers.	2001-04-29
US	53036456	R324O9ZVXAKKRS	0060185252	311965109	Faithless: Tales of Transgression	Books	5	66	67	N	N	Master storytelling at its best	Looking at the cover of this book, you might easily delude yourself into thinking that these stories are all in some way about marital infidelity. In fact, they are not. I happened to look inside the front cover of the book, and was reminded that many years ago Ms. Oates published a collection called &quot;Marriages and Infidelities,&quot; which in a way seems like some sort of irony.  Taking a cue from the title story, &quot;Faithless&quot; in the middle of the book, we learn that meaning of the word here is tied to religion and a particular character's lack of belief in God, and secondarily, her supposed lack of marital fidelity. Looking at the subtitle: &quot;Tales of Transgression&quot;, we might think of sin.  If we look at the introductory quote from Pascal to the entire collection, you get a further clue, &quot; When one does not love too much, one does not love enough.&quot;  So, what ties these 22 very different stories together? Where do the characters fail or go awry, as most of them do? Is it lack of faith in God, sinning against an individual or society, being dangerously devoted to a misguided cause or belief, or a simple lack of  inner strength?<br />Sometimes the stories are slices of life, the simple grinds, the fears of ordinary everyday life. Example: The daily routine of an unloved and lonely young waitress. Others go deeper and darker, touching on chilling family secrets and contemporary societal evils, from a suspicious disappearance of a wife and mother, to euthanasia, to a planned murder by a spurned lover, and to the physical  violation of  an undercover TV reporter.  These are just a few.  <br />What is exciting and what elevates Ms. Oates' stories are that they invite endless speculation and don't give up automatic answers.  The only common thread is Ms. Oates' consistent and enduring style, very similar to her other collections, yet managing to sound fresh. These are never comforting, lighthearted or heartwarming bedtime stories.   Thereis always a nervous precision edge, a razor-sharp tone that accurately finds its mark, causing the reader's heart to palpitate.   Once again,  Joyce Carol Oates is in top form with this new group of short stories.	2001-04-26
US	53036456	R3L7PTIJUJMCRO	0684869489	822218853	The Gardens of Kyoto: A Novel	Books	5	42	43	N	N	A sad, moving and memorable novel	Like the meditation gardens in Kyoto, Japan, which is the underlying metaphor to the book (in case you couldn't guess), the story of Ellen is told with subtlety and hidden shades of meaning, which the reader is invited to visit and probe.  <br />Ellen is presumably narrating her story to her daughter.  The defining event in Ellen's life is the early, barely realized love and loss of her cousin Randall, who was killed in World War II on Iwo Jima in the Pacific. It will tragically affect and color her other relationships forever, although how, is not fully revealed to the reader immediately, but discovered along the way.  While Ellen is the central character, it soon becomes apparent, through other of the book's characters, that the author has a broader message in mind than Ellen's private sorrow. Slowly, we learn how war affects and sometimes ruins the people it touches.<br />Randall ironically has a love of Japanese culture, particularly the treasured book Gardens of Kyoto, which he bequeathes to Ellen along with his diary. It is the first of many ironies which we are invited to discover, observe, and puzzle out, including glimpses of relationships rather than the relationships themselves.   With deft strokes, Kate Walbert gives us just enough information to do just that, painting her landscape and weaving her story through flashbacks and flash forwards, often in a surreal or dreamlike fashion.  At times one starts to lose a sense of time and place, reality and fantasy,  although Walbert always manages to bring us back.  As layers of secrets unfurl, the story keeps drawing us up until the very end.<br />This is an accomplished first novel, at first impression deceptively simple, but leaving the reader with remembrances of lingering sadness and loss long after it is finished.	2001-04-24
US	53036456	R1DRUCDX8MJGBO	0316781142	704361388	The Last Time They Met: A Novel	Books	4	24	28	N	N	Engrossing, nonstop read	Two star crossed lovers become the subject of this breathtaking new novel by Anita Shreve.  When the story opens, the fomer lovers unexpectedly run into each other at a writers' festival.  Both are now middle-aged and both accomplished poets.  He is the famous poet, she a minor one.  Perhaps they have a chance finally to be together happily after the tragedies that surrounded their past.  The last time they met was 27 years earlier, again an unexpected meeting, this time in Africa.  Each was married to someone else.  A tragic love affair ensued.  The third and final part of the novel goes back to the beginnings of their relationship at age 17 in a South Shore working class neighborhood of Boston, where the last secrets are peeled away, including an unanticipated surprise ending that might shock or enrage some, but  proves once again that  Shreve is a master storyteller.  Whatever your feelings about the book, it is well worth the read and ranks up there with Shreve's other novels, including The Weight of Water, whose story line fits partly into this one.	2001-04-23
US	53036456	R27D2K5BYUAZ1V	0805064923	187733636	Field Guide: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Unusual, enjoyable read	An unusual setting and an unlikely subject form the backdrop to this first novel by Gwendolen Gross.  American, Annabel Mendelssohn,  has come to the wilds of Australia to do graduate field work on her favorite subject, spectacled fruit bats.  Despite uncomfortable conditions, it is a life's dream come true, as well as an escape from haunting memories of her beloved brother's death two years before; that is, until her strange professor, for whom she harbors a vague attraction, goes missing.  Her research is further disrupted by anti-environmentalist loggers as well as the appearance of the professor's son, Leon Goode, newly arrived from his student and work stints in America.  Eventually the two meet and go in search of the professor, along the way discovering their own mutual attraction and the similarity of family circumstances that invisibly bind them.  <br />Interspersed with the Australian segments are glimpses of Leon's life in Boston and that of Annabel's sister's in Connecticut, flashbacks of memory, as well as E-mails and imaginary letters that travel between the two sisters, that contribute to our understanding of the characters' inner lives.  These devices bring balance and the exotic Australian outback enlivens the plot to what might otherwise be a ho-hum story.	2001-04-20
US	53036456	R3SBTYBEGJJVMB	0684867982	563821854	Wild Life: A Novel	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A delightful and original story	This highly original and astonishing novel begins with two sisters communicating about a threadbare, almost illegible diary that belonged to their grandmother, wondering how much is real and how much out of grandmother's imagination as a writer. We are thrown back a hundred years to find out. What comes out is a clever admixture of the main narrative as well as essays and adventure stories that sometimes parallel the actual, all of it ostensibly Charlotte's diary. <br />Although the main plot is not so believable, that is besides the point. Once that is understood, the reader gets eagerly caught up. The plot is really a backdrop or window dressing to the rest. <br />A quick outline: Charlotte is an educated woman, age 35, and already a widow with five sons, living in a backwater in the State of Washington near the border with Oregon. She is a writer and a feisty feminist, highly stubborn and independent, who defies as much convention as she can get away, but her neighbors are used to that. When Charlotte gets word that her housekeeper's young granddaughter is missing in the vicinity of a remote mountainous logging camp, she sets out on a long journey to find her, although others have failed. What ends in a foregone tragic conclusion for the child almost ends in one for Charlotte as well, as she becomes hopelessly lost in the woods and becomes the companion of wild animals. This is the point where the story actually comes into its own. Charlotte must now not only draw on a philosophy of life, but confront something within herself that is at once exhilarating and frightening, and will forever change her. <br />As we travel with Charlotte, scenes of the Northwest and the wild American frontier merge with Charlotte's reflections on spirituality, the struggle between preservation of natural resources and the encroachment of civilization, animal rights, modern inventions, independence for women, popular culture and art versus quality, as well as her adventure stories thatsometimes strangely parallel her own life or at least her fantasy life.  The well-documented and researched descriptions of early settlements of Washington and Oregon, and especially the evocative and haunting wilderness segments coupled with the voice of Charlotte, speak loudly to us across time. This is truly a one-of-a kind book that will pull you under its spell.	2001-04-20
US	53036456	RXKECGMTAYOS	0312266456	702912999	The Seventh Telling: The Kabbalah of Moeshe Katan	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Captivating message of healing and life changing	What is Kabbalah? What is the purpose of doing it?  How is it different from other spiritual disciplines?  How is it similar to psychotherapy, yet different?   These are complex questions that cannot be answered simply.  However, this book has tried a new and not so new approach - storytelling.  Inspired by Talmudic tradition, the Bible, ancient Jewish Kabbalistic texts, and modern spiritualist Rabbis such as Shlomo Carlebach and and Zalman Schachter, we get an introduction to Kabbalah, Jewish mysticism, through the retelling of the life of the fictional Moshe Katan.  The retelling, which is also very much about Moshe's wife Rivkah, is carried out to a select group of students by a couple who are friends of Moshe and Rivkah, Stephanie and Sidney. In the process of the retelling, we get a direct example of how learning comes through storytelling by watching Stephanie and Sidney's lives transformed, and the lives of other characters as well.   <br />We follow Moshe from his days as Michael Kaytan, wayward and bored young student, who gets accepted into MIT on a fluke, his talent to detect the pattern in an otherwise random field,  who winds up in the U.S. Army in Vietnam, studies in a Yeshivah in Israel, and finally becomes an ordained rabbi in the U.S., a commodities trader, spiritual counselor, and teacher. <br />The first half of the book is mostly narrative, while the second half, although continuing the narrative and the storytelling, is also a beginner's guide into Kabbalistic philosophy, terminology, and meditation techniques. <br />A point not to be overlooked, is that Moshe's mystical pursuit is not done in isolation and that the spiritual community that he creates around him and the people with whom he prays and celebrates Jewish life, first as an official Rabbi, then small 'r&quot; rabbi, then just Moshe, alternately referred to as Havurah or Minyan, is very much a part of it. As Moshe reminds people, we individuals are not the center of the universe, we are a part of the continuum.  Moshe also makes the point that one does not have to be Jewish or know Hebrew to practice Kabbalah. There is a detailed glossary of terms (Kabbalistic, Jewish ritual, and Hebrew) at the end of the book, which is quite useful, and also keeps the flow of the story from being interrupted.<br />I truly commend the author for the painstaking work of this book.  It is an act of humility and love. It never becomes preachy or dictatorial, rather seeks to suggest, to inspire, and provide  guideposts for further study to anyone who is interested in a deeper and truer connection with the creator, the mysteries of creation, and doing some very real healing in the here and now.	2001-04-15
US	53036456	R1D7WPA0WOTG64	0312272189	837137898	Fear & Trembling	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Highly enjoyable	According to legend,  a person must approach the Emperor and Empress with fear and trembling.  This is the analogy that Amelie draws on as she prepares a proper resignation speech to her bosses at the Yumimoto Corporation in Tokyo, where the right behavior, the right words, and the right demeanor are everything, even on resignation.  <br />Amelie (the character), is a college graduate, a Belgian, having been born in Japan and returing to seek employment.  She is resourceful, independent, and bright, values which would earn her high marks in the West, but when she successfully completes an assignment for one of the managers, her superiors interpret it as willfulness and arrogance.  There are a few on her side, but they are powerless to change anything. Although raised in Japan, speaking the language, Amelie quickly learns that her cherished adopted homeland also has a nightmare network of social and and work expectations, which she cannot fathom. As her supervisor, one of the few women in the company, becomes increasingly hostile and Amelie is given menial assignments which she is designed to fail at, things start to spiral out of control, until she winds up as a bathroom attendant in the company.  Her supervisor hopes she will then resign, but she waits out her one year contract, adopting Kierkegaard's philosophy of serenity in the midst of mindless drudgery or even prison.<br />The harsh indictment of Japanese society, its attitudes toward its own citizens as well as foreigners, is tempered by a fast-paced clever style full of wry humor, yet compassion for even its worst characters.   This is a  provocative work of fiction that will have you thinking long and hard about cross cultural relations, and the misunderstandings as well as the opportunities as cultures collide in the 21st century.	2001-04-11
US	53036456	R1VBO13I0V2JJE	0312266219	237764780	Music for the Third Ear	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Powerful, a must read!	Music for the Third Ear in eerie synchronous plotting seeks to and successfully connects two twentieth century holocausts, the Nazi atrocities and the Yugoslavian. Although fictional, it achieves an immediacy and a depth of understanding, particularly about the victimization of people from the Bosnian War.  By putting names, faces, and personal histories in front of us, we can't avoid becoming emotionally involved.  <br />I will just briefly outline the plot here.  The details are important, but what lies underneath in meaning is more so.  A Yugoslav couple, one a Bosnian Muslim and the other a Croatian Catholic reunite five years after the end of the Bosnia War in Rome.  The woman has a son as a result of gang rape during the war, whom her husband forces her to give up to a childless Italian couple. The Yugoslavians immigrate to Norway, where they stay temporarily with a childless couple, the woman being the daughter of Jewish holocaust survivors. The child, in the meantime, has severe psychological problems and eventually becomes a pawn between the Italians, the Yugoslavs, and the Norwegian couple.  Each family is already psychologically scarred, some as a result of war, some for other reasons.<br /> The story is told in flashbooks. As we are taken through their lives what becomes painfully evident is that we can only watch, but are powerless to stop another tragedy in the making, even after war is long over.  What makes it bearable at all, is the loving insight of the author, a psychotherapist, who tells the story in way that enhances our understanding and never intrudes.<br />The title is not entirely clear to me, but I gather that it relates to a method of psychotherapy described by the psychoanalyst, Theodore Reik, in which listening, not just with the ears, but with all of one's senses and one's soul,  is revelatory and crucial to understanding and healing.	2001-04-10
US	53036456	R21GI1T1FN6AK8	0312268661	154086844	Do Try to Speak as We Do: The Diary of an American Au Pair	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Engaging and a sheer delight!	Could this have been a story about an American au pair in a country other than England and Scotland, say France or Italy?  Yes, and it would have been a different story.  For it is as much a story about the relationship of two countries, the myths, good and bad, the stories we tell about the other, the class system, old institutions versus self inventiveness.   Cleverly woven into this theme, are many others, the principal being an education in life for a young  22-year-old American woman, who has lost her job back home and canceled her wedding.  As Melissa sticks out a six month term as a nanny (because &quot;a promise is a promise&quot;) under horrible working conditions, we chart her growth and the development of the overall theme.  <br />The author walks a fine line that accurately presents but doesn't exaggerate the cultural mores, social attitudes, and behavior of the British upper classes.  I think she  is careful to provide a balanced view.  Although I'm sure there will be those who disagree.  <br />I was pleasantly surpised at the depth of the story, the introspection that is assigned to Melissa, her coming to terms with the differences of another culture that surprisingly doesn't speak the same language, even though it's English, with issues of child rearing, and the ability to experience true intimacy.   Ultimately, the story is just a sheer delight to read.  You will laugh and cry, be outraged and charmed even at the minutiae of  Melissa's &quot;diary&quot;.  This is a story that never drags, never fails to delight.	2001-04-06
US	53036456	R1E38G3SPNMH86	067089558X	885194498	A Heart of Stone	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Engrossing and overpowering	A family tragedy takes place.  A mother, father, and three children are murdered in their home one night.  Two other children survive, a 12 year old girl and a 5 year old boy.  It is now 25 years later.  Ellen, the protagonist, and one of the surviving children, is a physician, actually a pathologist.  She is also expecting her own child.  By pure chance, Ellen discovers that her old family home is on the market and she purchases it.   However, as one can easily imagine, all is not well with Ellen. She has taken a leave of absence from her job and has left her marriage.  Her mental state is shaky.  She still hears voices after all these years.  While she awaits the birth of her child and is confined to bed by a threatened miscarriage, she relives her childhood bit by bit.  This mental replay is nothing new for her,  but it is not until she can look at the old family album and face the unspeakable horror that she can reclaim her soul and turn a &quot;heart of stone&quot; into a woman who is fully alive and unafraid.  <br />The chapter and story sequencing can throw the reader off at first, but eventually the reader catches on and it all starts to make sense.  Otherwise, the story works.  The writing is at once lyrical, yet bold.  The translation from the Dutch into English is very natural and seamless.<br />In an era where dysfunctional families and social values are receiving unprecedented attention, this book, although a novel, makes a realistic and important contribution, at the same time succeeding as a literary work. At times it shocks and at other times makes you laugh, but above all, you will root for Ellen, and the redemptive power of the human spirit.	2001-04-05
US	53036456	R11NK2Q16ZGOSM	0395836220	374823093	Stern Men	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Engaging, hilarious, thoroughly enjoyable	A thoroughly delightful and engaging read, Elizabeth Gilbert's 'Stern Men' has been aptly compared to the works of John Irving, with its odd assortment of offbeat characters and situations, a New England setting, as well as employing high comedy to deal with serious subjects.  Two remote Maine islands, Fort Niles and Courne Haven, where the main livelihood is lobster fishing, are engaged in a century old lobster war.  The only thing that will permanently break this destructive trend, is the unlikely alliance of a young madly in love couple, Ruth and Owney,  one from one of the feuding islands, and one from the other, but first Ruth must break free from the hold of old man Ellis, who has owned the islands for almost as long as the lobster wars have existed. <br />The title is a play on the job description of the person who sits in the stern of the boat and assists the lobersterman, as well as a description of the demeanor of the tough lobsterman.  Gilbert  successfully combines historical fact and lore on Maine coastal islands and lobster fishing  to ground her novel with authenticity.   Whether you have spent any time in 'Down East' Maine, as I have, or not, you will relish this wonderfully original story.	2001-04-03
US	53036456	R1266MSE6NFNRQ	1585670006	984861094	Blue	Books	5	20	21	N	N	A multifaceted multimedia feast	'Blue' is a multifaceted work that has no beginning and no end, no straight lines, and where the past and present intersect.  In that sense, it is a design fabricated to evoke the experience of Kabbalah. At the same time it is constructed like pages of Talmud with a central text that contain the modern story but vaguely evoke relationships and events in the Torah, and with parallel  commentaries/stories on the margins, the story spins off in many directions, sometimes off on its own tangents and sometimes bending back on itself  to illuminate and elucidate the text. These parellel stories are a comingling on each page of famous Jewish mystics such as Luria, numerous Rabbis of old, with Kafka, Bob Dylan, Vermeer, a Native American chief, and the fictional Tal's parents, taking the form of direct quotes, actual and imagined lives which can be read in any order along with or without the main text.   In yet another dimension, this is also a great art book of past and present, combining masters like Van Gogh and Vermeer with photographs of Kafka and Bob Dylan, and of Jewish scholars and students in Poland prior to World War II.  The art work, too, also intended as a commentary to interact with the various texts.<br />The central story, which reads like an allegory belongs to Abraham Tal, a New York gem merchant and advice giver, who can't solve his own problems. Among other concerns, he is torn with indecision and regret about whether to marry Rachel Heller. Eventually this leads him on a journey to Safed, the center of ancient Jewish mysticism, presumably to track down the origins of a 16th century Venetian wedding ring, which of course contains a sapphire, but also as a personal quest for spiritual answers. <br />Blue holds many meanings. The most obvious is the blue sapphire gem which narrator, Abraham Tal, is using to make a suite of  jewelry.  Tal connects the word sapphire to &quot;sefer&quot; which means &quot;book&quot; in Hebrew,  and to the giving of the book,the story of Moses finding a blue sapphire at the burning bush and the continuity of a people commemorated in the blue thread of the tallis.  There is much more.  Almost every page refers to a blue stone, blue in someone's clothing, blue walls, blue light.  <br />I found Mr. Zucker's notes at the beginning and end of the book a good source as well as a help to confused readers.  One cannot help but be confused (it even seems intentional), but at the same time delighted with this highly imaginative and light-hearted multimedia feast.	2001-03-31
US	53036456	RKFM8M6U0PJM	0151005079	332872233	The Lost Legends of New Jersey	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Moving and original story	This is a touching coming of age novel that will stir your memories as well as your soul, but it is not heartwarming in the traditional sense.  There is a lot of bitterness and bite that lends authenticity to the novel and makes it stand out.  The Rubin family is an ordinary family coming apart in an ordinary suburb of New Jersey, and within this ordinariness or as I prefer to call it, realness, which at least one reviewer has complained about, lies the strength of  the novel.  Anthony Rubin, the young teenage main narrator makes up legends about his hometown partly to try to make sense of the confusion and chaos in his life, but he and several of the other characters who narrate, also tell a very real story that we can all identify with in part. It details the American family in trouble circa 1980.  Comfortable and even affluent lifestyles do not compensate for, and even, perhaps, contribute.  Divorce, psychological stress, extramarital affairs, teenage peer pressures regarding friendship, sex, drugs, and alcohol are issues that all present themselves in this novel.   Yet there is a reslience in each of the characters that shines forth.  Anthony becomes a star hockey player. More importantly he somehow finds the ability to relate honestly to people even under peer pressure.  Juliette, his next door neighbor girlfriend tries to break free of  her wild and dangerous boyfriend and her own disintegrating family.    Friend Jay, the intellectual, becomes a star gazer, math whiz, and animal lover, and like Anthony, stays true to himself.  Anthony's mother finds a new life in Florida with a group of divers and underwater marine life enthusiasts.   His father makes peace with divorce and moves on.   His grandfather finds true love and gets married while living in a nursing home. <br />Each chapter is presented with a title that evokes &quot;legend&quot; in a way that works well as a creative device, but is part of a progressive story line. At times entertaining and at timesheart rending, the story is always lively, and in the end, memorable.	2001-03-25
US	53036456	RXJIIJB0R2BQA	0312203713	41199299	Suspension	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Imaginative and enjoyable	I thoroughly enjoyed this novel that combines historical fact and fiction about the building of the Brooklyn Bridge.  Mr. Crabbe weaves a highly imaginative and plausible plot. There are actually two plots: one about the search for a murderer and saboteurs of the bridge, the other surrounding police corruption in 1880's New York City.   The story is  well-crafted and researched, including the technical details of bridge building, as well as the look of late 19th century New York and Brooklyn, and even post Civil War Richmond, Virginia.  Although quite lengthy, the novel never becomes dull.  There is a large cast of colorful characters from police captains and cops to street urchins, ex-Confederate Army soldiers and Kung Fu masters, who keep the story moving and keep the reader guessing what is going to happen right up to the very end.	2001-03-25
US	53036456	R2Z2VYYB4Z01WV	0393049701	814842893	No Great Mischief	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A moving and heartwarming story	Cape Breton in Nova Scotia comes alive in this tale about a  Canadian family of Scottish descent, from the red-haired ancester named Calum Ruadh.  The narrator of the story is, Alexander, now a successful orthodontic surgeon living in a suburb of Toronto.  He is visiting his much older, sick, and penniless alcoholic brother in the inner city.  As he does so, he journeys back in time to reminisce about his childhood and about the ancestors.  He remembers the good times and the hardships, but it is death that alters the course of all their lives and charts their future.  Death strikes strikes immigrant ancestors during the original ocean crossing in 1779.  It again strikes Alexander's parents as they across thin ice one evening, and much later Alexander's namesake cousin in a mining accident.  Ironically, death has benefited others: first from the family who sought a better life in Canada, and it also provided opportunities for a better life for Alexander and  his sister.  He must come to terms with this too.  The story is also about the passage of time, about trying to hold onto one's heritage and sense of dignity, yet live in the outside world. He remembers the stories of old ancesters fighting a losing battle in 1692. Now in twentieth century Canada, the isolated idyll of Cape Breton, a self-sufficient fishing community, eventually gives way to the pressures of the outside world.  Many are forced to go elsewhere for work, such as the mines.  There, they meet people from other places, most notably  French Canadians, who are another special community with whom they usually clash but sometimes form alliances.  This is a lyrical and faithfully  told story that will stay in your heart for a long time.	2001-03-24
US	53036456	R3V2NUDTELE0CK	080524185X	282435277	The Funeral Party	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Refreshing, entertaining, irreverent fun	In a New York City loft on the eve of the second Russian revolution (1991), a group of friends, mostly former Russians, gather to watch over their friend, an artist named Alik, who is dying.  If this sounds like a plot of gloom, you're wrong.  As the title suggests, it's a celebration, during which the Russian emigre experience late 20th century style, is rehashed with equal doses of humor and pathos, and colorfully told in a way that only a Russian author could do justice to.	2001-03-22
US	53036456	R1UCT8KXR9SI7K	1573221775	539275432	My Dream of You	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Spellbinding, enchanting, overpowering	Kathleen De Burca is a thoroughly modern woman living in London.  She is nearing 50, but she is still quite attractive, takes care of her body and wears designer clothes.  She has roamed the world as a travel writer,  eaten in the best restaurants, stayed at elite hotels, and had numerous lovers.  To Kathleen, life is about the pursuit of passion and passion equals love.  Kathleen will do almost  anything in that pursuit, a sort of means justify the ends, even if it hurts other people and herself.  Yet real love has still eluded her.  She is not sure whether it is the last travel assignment in Manila where she sees children with a baby in the road that puts her off travel writing, but for sure, the sudden death of her best friend and colleague, Jimmy, signals a wake-up call.<br />Finally feeling that she has finally hit rock bottom, Kathleen decides to give up travel writing and go back to her native Ireland, which she ran from twenty years before and never looked back.  The purpose is not to stay or reunite with her family she tells herself, but to research  a real nineteenth century Irish scandal, that had come to her attention years before - a love affair between a member of the gentry (the Talbots) and her Irish groom, that resulted in a tragic divorce and the loss of her child.  There are a lot of unanswered questions in Kathleen's mind about the case.<br />Kathleen travels to Ballygall, in remote Western Ireland, the lands of the former Talbots.  She begins her research but becomes more and more intrigued by the history of the potato famine of 1848 and wonders at the connection to the 1849 scandal.<br />As if this were not enough, fate draws Kathleen into an unexpected affair, but this time it is real love and she is going to have to make difficult choices.  That and her being back on Irish soil and researching the scandal, force her to look back on her life and face painful truths.   <br />This is a large menu and in much less skillful hands it may have failed, but in the hands of Nuala O'Faolain, it is a triumph. As Kathleen asks the tough questions, we the readers are always one step ahead or one step right after her anticipating and asking also.<br />This is too good a story to spoil, so I won't tell you the outcome, but as the two stories intertwine, Marianne Talbot's and Kathleen's, we find out that life is much more complicated than it seems and that there are no easy answers.  The story is spellbinding and heroic, gorgeously written, full of constant  surprises.  If you have one novel to read this year, make it this one!	2001-03-21
US	53036456	R2SHIDP96IH8SY	0385498799	223812993	Bee Season: A Novel	Books	5	14	16	N	N	A dazzling novel of the modern family	BEE SEASON<br />If Bee Season were just about an average schoolgirl (Eliza) who blossoms by winning spelling bees, thereby winning the love and respect of her family, friends, and teachers it would have been a heartwarming novel and probably have been a fine complete story, but Myla Goldberg doesn't stop at easy with her plot or her characters.   <br />The second half of the book treads into deeper darker waters.  There are earlier hints of what is to come: the lawyer mother's excessive busyness, obsessive cleanliness and aloofness; the father's past hippy days, dabbling in mysticism contrasted with his present life as cantor of his synagogue and  his zealousness toward his children, the teenage brother's difficult adolescence.  The second half really becomes a story about four people, who can't seem to function as a family:  Each lives in a separate but parallel universe, heading either toward spiritual transformation or possible destruction.    I don't want to say more about the plot and give things away. This is one where it's better if you don't know too much before you read the book.   <br />In a style at once accessible and complex, which is oddly reminiscent of Jane Hamilton's &quot;Disobedience&quot;, Myla Goldberg deftly outlines her plot and carves out a collision course for her characters, while she deals with large universal and contemporary themes of family, religious and belief, mental illness, child rearing and parenting, educational choices, coming of age, and love.  <br />There are a couple of obstacles, the largest of which is the ability of a 9-year-old to study Kabbalah (Jewish mysticism). Although I don't agree with the old precept that said one must be forty, learned, and wise before starting to study Kabbalah, this did stretch plausibility, but I don't think it spoils the story.  The other point - I sense that readers who are not Jewish may not appreciate the book to its fullest, although it is definitely not a deterrent or a reason not to read the book.  For me, being able to identify with the &quot;Silent Amidah&quot; and that type of Friday night service, for example, or knowing the ambivalence that many Jewish American teenagers feel, did enrich the reading.<br />In any case, as most of us are raised in families,  I still think it is a book that people of many backgrounds can relate to.  It is an important book and definitely one you will want to discuss and argue with your friends and in your book clubs.	2001-03-16
US	53036456	R2HMHJGZIKZ5E4	1585670677	588981575	Coney	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Thought provoking and original	Young Harry Catzker  is coming of age in a topsy turvy world, which starts when he falls off his bike and smashes it to pieces, setting in motion a series of other events, but that is the least of his worries. Coney has been described (see flyleaf) as a dark comic novel and that is what it is.  I had perhaps unfairly expected a little &quot;schmaltz&quot;, but Ducovney doesn't give an inch in that department, except perhaps at the Caf Royal.  Harry's mother keeps repeating to her husband &quot;always with the jokes.&quot;  She finds terror underneath the joking. The reader is on her wavelength.  Harry will suffer in this world, but he will turn out all right.  He seems to have an instinct for survival. By the time the novel finishes, however, no one else will be spared.<br />Set in 1939 in Coney Island, New York, the story presages and parallels  the coming Holocaust.  As Harry's father (serial novelist for a Yiddish newspaper) tells Harry, in Poland there is no freedom and the law is on the side of the &quot;Pogromchiks&quot;, in America the law is on your side, but you may not be able to exercise it. The three main adults are all immigrants, and as it becomes clearer and clearer, they are not safe in America either.  Aba, poet and family boarder, wonders how many Jewish lives will have to be given before there can be a State of Israel.  Unfortunately, he is eerily prescient.  The reader desperately wants justice or a happy solution and the lesson is that there is none.  <br />This gritty book assaults the senses.  It is difficult and at times even disgusting to read some of the passages, page after page of grime and cruelty, tempered occasionally by kindness - the love of his father,  Aba's  life lessons,  and  by visits to  Fifi, the fat lady.  From the opening chapter where a pack of dogs are tearing each other apart, the reader is in for a dizzying descent into hell.  There are gangsters, circus freaks, and adults whose lives are confused, in tatters and beyond their control.  At first it looks like a good guys versus the bad guys and  an attempt to shock.  Even the landscape is bleak, the glory days of Coney Island when it had Luna Park and Dreamland, is past, and most of the novel takes place in the off season when the summer people have gone. Yet, as the novel builds momentum, the parallels to Hitler's rising power in Europe inform the book more and more and give it coherence.   <br />Often the language is awkward and convoluted.  Harry, his father, Aba, and his mother go into reveries and fantasies in ways which confuse the reader, although the concept is good.  Moise, the father, speaks out loud to Freud and then turns and speaks to real people, for example.  However, there is a lot of good imagery. Coney will get under your skin much as the particles of sand under the boardwalk and provoke  you into confronting the biggest issues of our existence.	2001-03-13
US	53036456	R34W6LOOPN524V	0399146598	245379547	Louisa	Books	5	3	6	N	N	A must read!	In the aftermath of World War I and the Russian Revolution, a Hungarian Jewish family is about to find out that their life will never be the same.  The story alternates between Hungary and Palestine/Israel.<br />As many probably know by now, &quot;Louisa&quot;  parallels the Biblical story of Ruth, which is also recounted in the novel.  This updated version invites an interesting comparison.  Beyond that, I'm not entirely sure why it's there or the basis for the novel, except as an interesting device or Torah commentary.  One can speculate on the themes of conversion and loyalty.<br />The chronology zigzags a lot, but the reader should be able to follow it, and like a well-made jigsaw puzzle, it fits together by the end of the novel.  The narrator is Nora: daughter, wife, mother, but most importantly, a cousin to Bela who emigrates to Palestine and founds a Kibbutz with a small group of his fellows in the 1920's, and with whom she has a twenty year correspondence.   It is the rough drafts and the highly personal letters that Nora can't bring herself to send, which she saves for years, that are the most revelatory.  The other major characters are Louisa, her Christian German daughter-in-law, Nora's son Gabor, and Nora's husband Janos. There are also several other interesting and colorful minor characters.  <br />Nora is a hardbitten individual, always with a quick retort, but hiding a soft center.  Louisa is harder to get a grasp on, although it might be said that she is soft and simpering on the outside, but really made of steel. Early on, we watch how manipulative Louisa can be in getting want she wants.  My one frustration is that I couldn't get to know each of them better, that includes as well Bela, Janos, and Gabor.  The style is spare and harsh, like Nora herself, and we only know as much as Nora is going to tell us. <br />By 1944 Nora is in hiding in Louisa's parents' cellar. Louisa's  parents have left Budapest.  Nora and Louisa seem devoted, and yet each has a different version of their relationship, each claiming that she saved the other in the retelling in Palestine, where they arrive in 1949. There are small annoyances, such as the use of cigarettes as a prop and a metaphor in almost every situation, and the sniping quality that seems to infect almost every character in the novel. Although Zelitch has claimed that she took her cues from time spent in the Peace Corps in Hungary, I still would have preferred to see more differentiation.  No society's people are monolithic. Despite all this, subtly and the less is more rule whet the reader's appetite  enough to sustain interest.  <br />Although I can't completely say why, this novel even with its flaws took my breath away.  Perhaps it can be found in the meticulous description  of places and people that have vanished and the futility of stopping time even as we ache for is lost.	2001-03-11
US	53036456	R34K3WDXLBFOT9	0399146598	245379547	Louisa	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A must read!	In the aftermath of World War I and the Russian Revolution, a Hungarian Jewish family is about to find out that their life will never be the same.  The story alternates between Hungary and Palestine/Israel.<br />As many probably know by now, &quot;Louisa&quot;  parallels the Biblical story of Ruth, which is also recounted in the novel.  This updated version invites an interesting comparison.  Beyond that, I'm not entirely sure why it's there or the basis for the novel, except as an interesting device or Torah commentary.  One can speculate on the themes of conversion and loyalty.<br />The chronology zigzags a lot, but the reader should be able to follow it, and like a well-made jigsaw puzzle, it fits together by the end of the novel.  The narrator is Nora: daughter, wife, mother, but most importantly, a cousin to Bela who emigrates to Palestine and founds a Kibbutz with a small group of his fellows in the 1920's, and with whom she has a twenty year correspondence.   It is the rough drafts and the highly personal letters that Nora can't bring herself to send, which she saves for years, that are the most revelatory.  The other major characters are Louisa, her Christian German daughter-in-law, Nora's son Gabor, and Nora's husband Janos. There are also several other interesting and colorful minor characters.  <br />Nora is a hardbitten individual, always with a quick retort, but hiding a soft center.  Louisa is harder to get a grasp on, although it might be said that she is soft and simpering on the outside, but really made of steel. Early on, we watch how manipulative Louisa can be in getting want she wants.  My one frustration is that I couldn't get to know each of them better, that includes as well Bela, Janos, and Gabor.  The style is spare and harsh, like Nora herself, and we only know as much as Nora is going to tell us. <br />By 1944 Nora is in hiding in Louisa's parents' cellar. Louisa's  parents have left Budapest.  Nora and Louisa seem devoted, and yet each has a different version of their relationship, each claiming that she saved the other in the retelling in Palestine, where they arrive in 1949. There are small annoyances, such as the use of cigarettes as a prop and a metaphor in almost every situation, and the sniping quality that seems to infect almost every character in the novel. Although Zelitch has claimed that she took her cues from time spent in the Peace Corps in Hungary, I still would have preferred to see more differentiation.  No society's people are monolithic. Despite all this, subtly and the less is more rule whet the reader's appetite  enough to sustain interest.  <br />Although I can't completely say why, this novel even with its flaws took my breath away.  Perhaps it can be found in the meticulous description  of places and people that have vanished and the futility of stopping time even as we ache for what has been lost.	2001-03-11
US	53036456	R1OCE8SN38E4DN	0385333706	648698209	After Long Silence: A Memoir	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Moving, Engrossing, Honest. A must read!	Please take a moment to look at my November 28, 1999 review, my only &quot;anonymous&quot; review which I have given the same title to here. I'm not looking for more ratings.  I just want to  bring this book to as much attention as possible.  A dazzling addition to Holocaust literature.	2001-03-10
US	53036456	R3VD8RX02F011D	1565122461	216751265	The Sky Unwashed	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A small and brave masterpiece	A short book, that can be read in one day, The Sky Unwashed is a highly important book in two respects. Foremost, this is one of the first full pictures we got about what really happened to the residents in the Chernobyl region and Kiev in April, 1986, albeit in fiction, but borne out now in articles and  TV documentaries. Secondly, the lyrical beauty and masterful storytelling should elevate this  novel to the stature of high literature.  It is almost a year since this book came out and I read it, but it still haunts me.  There are several themes interwoven  and coalescing in the overriding struggle for life versus death's inevitability, the largeness of the nuclear accident, its cataclysmic proportions versus the helplessness of mankind or of the individual, of course another metaphor for the big Soviet Union and the communist ideal versus the individual. Although ironically the political and scientific disasters are of mankind's creation.  <br />The novel plays out in snapshots:  We see people working at the factory before the nuclear accident because it looks like a better life or the best alternative; the aftermath of the accident, the government putting people on buses in a hurry, telling them they can go home in a few days, but to leave everything behind; a skin rash or a burn or a breathing problem, just that, a denial of radiation sickness; Marusia and her friends planting a garden.<br />What can a person do when faced with a moral dilemma over which they seem to have no control and from which there is no escape, where it doesn't matter whether you are a hero or a coward, because you will die anyway?  The novel asks this in several ways and on several levels, and the answers are as different as the personalities involved.<br />The grandmother Marusia, her daughter-in-law Zosia, and two grandchildren crowd the hospital in Kiev,  where her son, Zosia's husband, lays dying, people crammed into hallways for weeks fight over blankets and food and toys, the trainstation is stampeded.   Zosia escapes the hospital for awhile to watch a parade, to look at clean streets and flowers, and to try pretend that it's all a bad dream, even while plotting to get her children out of Kiev.  Marusia takes a different route.  She and other elderly women friends go back to their village and live life on their own terms with the time they have left.  This is where the novel really takes its philosophical wing and its song.  It is the heart and soul of the book.<br /> As the sky becomes dirty and unnaturally clouded over Chernobyl, a society's vision gradually becomes clear and unclouded.  One makes the inevitable connection to the collapse of the Soviet Union a few years later.  We will never really know for sure, but the issue of handling nuclear energy safely is one that is relevant to everyone on the planet.	2001-03-10
US	53036456	R3PYWVSRFM67L4	0312267304	416869246	A Drizzle of Honey: The Life and Recipes of Spain's Secret Jews	Books	5	12	13	N	N	An important historical and culinary contribution	Who were the secret Jews of the Iberian Peninsula?  I have heard the term &quot;Marano&quot;, but this book talks about &quot;Crypto-Jews&quot; and &quot;Conversos.&quot;  There are other terms as well.  They were Jews who forcibly or willingly converted to Christianity during the Inquisition and continued to live in Spain, Portugal, and their colonies after the 1492 expulsion. &quot;Crypto&quot; refers to those who tried to still live as underground Jews, at least in the first two generations, and to preserve something of their Jewish heritage, always in danger of being informed on and subject to the Inquisition.  Even today, there are people who can trace their ancestry to the Maranos or conversos.<br />This is a meticulously researched historical cookbook by a husband and wife team who are professors at the University of Rhode Island.  The documentation comes from medieval cookbooks and surprisingly from Inquisition trial records, where we have the actual names of the accused.  The culinary influences span the 14th through the 17th centuries, but the focus of this book is on the recipes of conversos, converted Jews who continued under Spanish and Portuguese rule after the the 1492 expulsion.<br />In many cases, the original recipes of those on trial were only lists, but through the medieval cookbooks, they were able to clarify a lot of the confusion. This is not a Kosher cookbook.  There is even a recipe which includes pork, which shows the extent to which some of the conversos had assimilated.  Indeed, as the authors point out, what makes these recipes Jewish and proof of the accused individuals' Jewish practice, is sometimes in doubt, as prior to the Inquisition period at the beginning of the 14th century, the three main religions lived side by side and all cooking was largely a mixture of Mediterranean and Arabic influences, and what was available in the region.  The inquisitors, albeit not looking for true justice, must have recognized that, and appeared muchmore interested in obtaining &quot;proof&quot; of &quot;Judaizing&quot; through observance and practice - evidence of Kashering meats for example, not eating pork or shellfish, and evidence of preparation of special holiday foods, such as Matzoh, and preparing foods especially for Friday night.  <br />The authors have lab tested the recipes and updated them for the modern kitchen, while preserving the text of the original.  For example, they humorously tell you how they have altered receipes for Almori, a fermented down mess of rotted barley, vegetables, unleavened bread, salt, herbs, and spices.  Lamb was a popular meat dish, and is replicated here in meat pies.  Sausages, fish, cheeses, and various egg recipes are represented.  There are several matzoah &quot;Pan Cenceno&quot; recipes and one for &quot;Harotzet Balls.&quot;  <br />This is an important contribution to a little known period of Jewish history and a tribute to those who died or suffered for their religion.  Whether you try these recipes in your kitchen or not, without a doubt but you will want to read and relish this book from cover to cover.	2001-03-10
US	53036456	R1OL40RZU73I5R	0525945946	865623208	When I Lived in Modern Times	Books	5	21	23	N	N	A refreshing literary achievement!	Idealism and disillusionment, the collisions of  past and future are recurrent themes in this novel set in 1946 and 1947 Palestine, where identity is a haphazard commodity.  The narrator who chronicles what she calls living history is 20-year-old Evelyn Sert, sometimes called Eve, sometimes Mrs. Priscilla Jones.  Unlike many tales of Jewish refugees reclaiming their homeland, Evelyn is not a refugee, but she is a displaced person of sorts. It is right after the war and Evelyn and her mother have survived the long years of the London blitz and rationing. <br />Growing up in England, the daughter of a woman who has cut ties from her own immigrant family and a shadowy American father only glimpsed through one old photograph, Evelyn is always reminded that she is second class, and the only thing that fiercely endures is her Jewish identity. When her mother dies an early death, her mother's lover, &quot;Uncle Joe&quot;, who has fed and clothed them all these years, and fed Evelyn as well on Zionism, encourages her to go to Palestine, and basically pays her off to do so.  One senses that it is not entirely out of conviction but a convenient way to get Evelyn out of the way of his real family.<br />A frustrated artist, she goes to work at the only way she knows how to make a real living, as a hairdresser. In her hairdresser's capacity, she is recruited for mundane underground assignments by the mysterious sexy &quot;Johnny&quot;, who becomes her lover. Eventually caught out by the British and forced to leave the country, Evelyn's idealistic dream disintegrates, and that is the tie-in to the book's title, but it does not end there.  A mature and wizened Evelyn returns to Israel to live out her twilight years.<br />The great thing about this story and its strength will probably also cause offense to those expecting heroic characters and lofty moral platitudes. This is an unsentimental description and examination of life under the British Mandate.  It is not always a pretty or hopeful picture, although not completely dim.  The Jewish characters and the British are equally put under a harsh spotlight.  As each tells his or her story, argues over the old and the new world order, and prediction of what will happen when the British leave (the only thing that all parties agree will happen), a picture of a society and a people in transition emerges.  The author's research has been done with care and I believe that we get an honest and accurate portrayal.  <br />Finally, this is as much a story about the building of Tel Aviv as it is about the State of Israel. Not surprisingly, it is this city and not Jerusalem that captures Evelyn's imagination.  The young shining Tel Aviv, not only stands as a nostalgic historical and cultural remembrance, but also as a fitting metaphor for the modern Jewish city and therefore a new definition of the Jewish people.	2001-03-04
US	53036456	R2U6UUO1L3VT9E	0375408924	15831726	Swimming Toward the Ocean	Books	4	21	22	N	N	Eminently readable and intelligently written	Set in Brooklyn and Manhattan in the 1950's, the story centers on Chenia, a 45-year-old Jewish-Russian immigrant, wife and mother of three children. In an unusual narrative and plot convention, the story opens with the as yet unborn third child, a daughter named Devorah, telling the story, most of it recreated from her imagination and from her perspective as an adult 40 years later.   The central story revolves around Chenia's miserable marriage to Ruben, a philanderer, a liar, a con man, who works in the garment district.  He is at best indifferent to his family, and often worse.  With the two older children in school, Chenia once again finds herself pregnant.  Unable to successfully abort the third child, uneducated,  trapped in a loveless marriage, having never learned English well enough and still very much a greenhorn, the only option she sees is suicide.  Through a set of circumstances, she is saved from this fate and enters into an off and on again affair of her own with one Harry Taubman.  When Harry eventually lets her down, too, she again nearly commits suicide, but is rescued at the last minute.  <br />Down the road, as her children are getting older, through a financial twist of fate, she is able to divorce Ruben and eventually marry good-hearted Sol.  From husband A to husband B, we see the children shunted aside and left to grow up on their own, but Devorah is the child who has it the worst.  It is almost a miracle that she even survives in this household of neglect and it is no wonder that as a 40-year-old and a mother to be herself, she asks the dying Chenia, 'do you really love me?'  Although Chenia never fully grows up, she does come to a sense of peace years later.  The last chapters and the final denouement work well in bringing the story to closure as Devorah  tries to figure out the truth and what it means for her own future.<br />The story is told in strong simplistic language that never sentimentalizes Chenia's heartbreaking life or the lifeof her children.  The other characters in the story are also complex and recognizable. Swimming Toward the Ocean is written with intelligence, depth, and compassion.  This is not a feel good story or a comfortable one, but one which will resonate in the hearts and minds of readers.	2001-03-03
US	53036456	R2ICVL9L71OA6I	038550117X	133960389	Disobedience: A Novel	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Another Jane Hamilton Winner!	What happens when two socially conscious and educated people, still nostalgic for the sixties, get married, and move from rural Vermont to Chicago to raise kids? Jane Hamilton offers one possible scenario.  The narrator is the 17-year-old son, Henry Shaw, who discovers, by way of the E-mail account he set up for her, that his mother, Beth, is having an affair. Through her letters to her lover and her best friend we come to have a secondary narrator as well and we see a different Beth from wife and mother.  <br />The overall tone of the book in the mouth of the son is light and deceptively casual, alternately raucous, hysterical, and rational, and one wonders whether Henry is really affected at all.  Then we remember that he is a teenager, albeit mature for his age, trying to grow up,  to deal with his own sexual yearnings and the desire to fit somewhere in the world.  When confronted with his mother's indiscretions, his father's ineptitude, his younger sister's obsession with the Civil War, and his worries about her sexuality, he feels that he is the only &quot;normal&quot; one and that it is he holding the family together.  He deals with the situation with humor and self-deprecation, with an 'I don't care what happens to my crazy family' attitude, and occasionally defiance.  Hardly anyone in the family notices, at least for awhile.  <br />From folk music bands and country dances, to first love in a religious summer camp, to fortune tellers and Wisconsin farms, the family plods along, yet each in their separate worlds, until they gather at the mother of all Civil War reenactments.  That is when Hamilton lowers the boom.  Her timing is immaculate.  It is there that the entire family is faced with a wake-up call, and some hard truths have to be faced.  <br />The Shaw family are very real.  They are like people we know and maybe a little like ourselves.  Once again, Hamilton demonstrates that she can adroitly translate  the crises of American families, as well as the roles of and relationships between the sexes into great literature.	2001-03-01
US	53036456	R2S9ZDFNNGWMYH	0312262639	717763682	A Desert in Bohemia	Books	3	7	9	N	N	A good story, but not a great one	This book although competently written, did not live up to my expectations.  Scenic descriptions are adequate.  The opening is strong and full of promise.  I also liked the final chapter and the story resolution, but the big middle lags. Walsh knows how to hit all the right notes as she interweaves the lives of two families from post World War II Czechoslovakia through Communism and the breakup of the Soviet Union: the expatriot issues, the ideologic clashes, Nazism versus Communism versus capitalism, the breakup and reuniting of families caught in the wave of political history.   She even gives a plausible explanation of the psychological motivation of each character.  Yet, the result is emotionally unsatisfying.  It as though these characters walked across a stage and you were told all about them, assured of their complexity, but never got inside their skins.  The plot requires tension and an emotional response within the reader.  I felt like I was reading an instructive young people's story, but as an adult I wanted more.  I didn't want the author to hold back.  This is supposed to be an adult novel.  Also, the happy outcome for most of the main characters seems too easy in light of history.  Finally, I couldn't get past the feeling that the Comenians (from a fictional region of Czechoslovakia) were really Brits in disguise.  This may sound unfair, but in a like comparison of another recent Cold War novel by British author, Martin Booth, &quot;The Industry of Souls&quot;, there is no cross culturism in the characters.  They talk and act the way one would expect. However, A Desert in Bohemia is worth reading for the philosophical and  psychological  issues that it raises, and which are still timely in the New Europe.	2001-02-28
US	53036456	R1KDVL9S57HB4A	0375410538	924994086	Anil's Ghost	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A heroic achievement!	This is a  dark, disturbing, and brilliant novel.  Most people, myself included, know Ondaatje through his novel, The English Patient, and also the movie.   This is a complete different book, a completely different setting and type of character, which may disappoint the reader who comes with an expectation.   It may also disappoint those who are expecting a lot of action, intrigue, and suspense. You must put away those expectations and approach this book fresh, maybe even as a meditation on the mystery of human existence, like the artifacer in the book who paints eyes on the Buddah. Western readers should also dispense with their notions of who the main characters are, how they think, how they act. The characters appear at first glance hidden in monotone, but with a subtlety that only Ondaatje can  weave together they are slowly and also painfully revealed.<br />Ondaatje, who is himself a Sri Lankan ex-patriot knows very well had to provoke the dichotomy of such a life in his main character, Anil Tissera.  Anil will always live in that middle ground or no man's land between her native homeland and the American/European life that she has so thoroughly and successfully embraced at least outwardly.  Yet it is the inward Anil that she has been hiding from herself that is going to be explored here.  <br />As a well-respected forensic pathologist, she examines dead bodies for a living and is eventually drawn to  working for human rights organizations in the war zones of Central America. Ironically, among these horrors, she is most alive and most herself.  Yet it is only when her work takes her to her native Sri Lanka, now in the midst of it own civil war, and which she has been away from for years, that she begins to confront her own past demons.  Along the way, we are introduced to a middle class Sri Lankan family, with its own complex and disturbing relationships.  These comprise her new colleague, Sarath, an anthropologist, and his brother, Gamini, a medical doctor, aswell as holy men, bandits, criminals, and ordinary folk.  She notes that in the end of most Western novels the westerner walks away into the sunset or gets on a plane, but the people who live in the place of horror cannot escape.  I am paraphrasing here.  So we never see Anil get on that plane, although we know that she does.  Sarath, of course is the one who stays, who is the real hero, and the one who pays the ultimate price, as will his brother, most probably also.  <br />I am very glad that I read this novel, although it required patience and fortitude because of its depth as well as the graphic horror.  The reader is never left off the hook as Ondaatje brilliantly and chillingly recounts the atrocities of a war where the enemy and the victim is not always seen or known. It is as though he also felt a debt as a writer and a Sri Lankan to let the world know and it is commendable.	2001-02-24
US	53036456	RYDFUW4VE68PL	006019538X	366053259	La Cucina: A Novel of Rapture	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Where passion and cooking collide	When Rosa Fiore is faced with tragedy, she goes into her kitchen and cooks, and she goes to extremes, chickens, sausages, tomato sauce, pastas, breads, desserts, even oysters for large numbers of people and meant to last for years.  The book opens on the family farm in the 1930's in Sicily.  After her young lover is killed, she moves to Palermo, and lives a spinsterish life as a librarian, still cooking.  It is now 25 years later and she meets a mysterious Englishman cookbook afficionado and scholar, and they begin an outrageous and culinary love affair until he too is tragically taken from her.  Heartbroken, Rosa moves back to the family farm and runs it, still cooking.  Reminiscent of &quot;Like Water for Chocolate&quot; and &quot;Chocolat&quot; this is a jolly good time book, with touches of the supernatural.  Despite the piling on of tragedy, there is no time for tears, only for cooking and more cooking of one sensuous and mouth watering dish after another.  The author's knowledge of Sicily shines through in every aspect of the book, including the Italian names for dishes, as well as ordinary objects and places, and gives authenticity to this phantasmagorical fairy tale.  I would love to see a real cookbook inspired by this story!	2001-02-21
US	53036456	R1GR4HBKVD2NWO	0375406328	449261090	Lying Awake	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Intriguishing and spiritually moving	Sister John of the Cross has visions which she and her cloistered community have accepted as messages from God until one day she finds out that they may be a result of a medical problem, perhaps seizures, and that they can be corrected through surgery and may even save her life.  Thus begins a course of events which for the lay or secular person or the nonbeliever might mean nothing, but present a terrible choice for Sister John.  The book traces her life in chronological flashbacks, her childhood,  being raised by grandparents, her younger years as a novice and then a full Sister in the cloister, her spiritual struggle and progress over the years and her relationship with the rest of her community.  This is ordinarily not a book I would have chosen to pick up, as I am not a Catholic,  but I heard so many good things and being by Mark Salzman was recommendation enough.  I was not disappointed.  The book in its simplicity, yet and depth and poetic style inspired and uplifted me.  Sister John is a spiritual poet.  The story itself reads like poety and prayer -  then you have Sister's John's poetry and her interior dialogue and prayer.  Mr. Salzman effortlessly weaves it all together. The story is told with a great deal of respect, insight, and compassion for the cloistered life, which is such a mystery to most of us. And you will root for Sister John, through her questioning and her insights, her depths of despair, her courageous and honest journey toward God.  This is a book you will want to keep by your bedside and pick up again and again.  I urge everyone to read it.	2001-02-18
US	53036456	R36BBFWIL0O4VB	037550334X	2243911	Undue Influence: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Bravo Brookner!	It is difficult for me to deconstruct a novel by the great Anita Brookner, especially as I have finally gotten around to reading something by her.  The book (and the author) lived up to expectations.  This is not a book about which you say it was enjoyable or fun to read.  You have to come to a book like this with patience and a willingness to let the characters overtake you.  It doesn't take long.  Right away from the opening pages in Claire's (the main character and narrator) bookshop, the stage is set and you learn all you need to know about her.  She is intelligent, quiet and serious, introspective, attractive enough, yet she doesn't quite have the social skills to form a relationship with the opposite sex.  When she does so, she chooses the wrong type of man and she knows it.  She also knows that it will have disastrous consequences, but she goes after him anyway.  At times, the British manners and style get in the way for me, although maybe it's just what I am accustomed to reading.  Nevertheless, I believe Ms. Brookner, in the end, transcends time and place and speaks with a brave forthright voice to the universal wisdom and longings of the human heart, and particularly as a champion of women.	2001-02-18
US	53036456	R2CALPCGDLFXKU	0395860407	394753147	The Sugar Island	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An Original, Heroic, and Moving Story	The Sugar Island tells the story of a mother and daughter trying and finally succeeding in escaping Cuba for Miami, and all the difficulties of life in both places, but beyond that the voice and tone is fresh and original.  The harsh realities of life in Cuba are fleshed out in the day to day life of the 15-year-old narrator, Tanya, her family, and the people she knows.  Although the story is set in the 1960's, is is very relevant to today.  Lamazares has a way of making even lives and places that have nothing sing out with poetry on every page.  Yet she also relates each hardship in a straightforward way that calls out for compassion and never sentimentalizes.  These are memorable characters and a top literary voice on Cuba and Cuban emigrees. It's a short book, so there are no excuses. Read it!  Highly worth the effort.	2001-02-14
US	53036456	RH8YAAACDMT93	0399146679	367711818	An Empire of Women	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Brilliant  beautiful writing, characterization falls short	This book had so much going for it, but I wanted it to be more than it was.  The author's writing skills are magnificent.  The relationships between the three generations as well as the two outside characters are complex.  There is a lot of rich material here including Chinese thought and symbolism I especially found the grandmother's story and interior dialogue sequences compelling.  The daughter and granddaughter never fully materialized for me even though there was a lot of dialogue and angst expressed by everyone, as if to spell out the meaning.  I found some explanation for the characters' motivation but not entirely and not satisfying enough. I kept waiting for each &quot;ah-ha&quot; moment, and there were many, for it to all make sense, but it never did. Also, the injection of the little girl Alice into the family picture, while supposed to be the key to the family's deliverance, seemed gratuitous.  All in all, this is a talented effort that ultimately does not deliver.	2001-02-14
US	53036456	R1U7I6ONUDB5D	0374105014	588283644	An Obedient Father	Books	4	13	16	N	N	A Brave and Different Story About India	This is a book which I see from other reviews has stirred a lot of controversy.  In this case, I think it is a good thing.  It means people will discuss the book and ultimately will argue, agree or disagree about what it says about modern day India.  As an outsider, I cannot comment on the truth of the story. I understand that it has offended many Indian readers.  Most of the characters are unsavory. Many are deranged or criminal.  The main character is a corrupt petty government official who takes bribes for first one political party, then later another. His family is split apart, dysfunctional, and despicable.  However, the author manages to make them believable and characters we want to understand.  The story moves rapidly, occasionally gets confusing, but always gets back on track.  There is a wicked humorous tone that intrudes even in the darkest and most outrageous moments, which helps give the story life, and maybe is a warning not to take it all literally.   Whether you love or hate these characters, I think the structure and impact of family life also on the larger society which is unique to India is rendered faithfully.  I think any good fictional story has elements of truth which each reader can accept or reject to bring home the larger message.	2001-02-12
US	53036456	R3JXU4T9VPB765	0151004714	4054666	The Last Life: A Novel	Books	5	8	9	N	N	The Meaning of Existence and Family	Three generations of La Basse, a French-Algerian family.  The narrator is the teenage granddaughter, Sagesse, who feels she is inappropriately named because her name means wise, although the reader will disagree.  As a young teenager she begins to see and confront the family for its false appearances but does not completely understand or know the ties and the lies that bind it together until almost the end of the novel, which spans some years.  The authoritarian grandfather and icy grandmother run the family with a tyrannical kind of love that imprisons Sagesse, her brother Etienne, who suffers from a birth defect, her American mother Carol, and her father, Alexandre.  Grand-pere owns the resort hotel that he built himself and hopes to make into his dynasty.  The grandparents and Alex mourn the loss of the family home in Algiers, which they left when French rule was over in 1962, and which is referred to in anecdotes.  As two tragedies converge in the present, the early 1990's, the past or last life, the Algerian life intrudes, the family and its myths crumble, as does Sagesse's innocence, and she is the one left to find out the truth about her family, who she is, and who she wants to be.  A moving, sad story, yet with hope finally, well plotted and intelligent, with complex characters fully rendered.  Long, but not overbearing passages in which Sagesse is grappling with what is real, what is truth as she learns about  Camus, Sarte, and St. Augustine in school act as seamless metaphors.  In beautifully rendered descriptions, the story travels alternately between the French Mediterranean Coast, Algeria, and the East Coast of the U.S.	2001-02-12
US	53036456	R36QI6CDHWI95Y	0375410546	388721998	When We Were Orphans	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A Master Storyteller!	It is 1915, Shanghai. A ten-year-old English boy living in the international city, has his life shattered by the sudden disappearance and supposed murder of his parents.  He is whisked off to England, attends a boys school and builds a successful life as a celebrated detective.  He returns to Shanghai in 1937 to solve his parents' murder, but as the Chinese and Japanese are fighting each other, the reader learns that Christopher's life is a sham and all is not as it appears.  So we are suddenly confronted with an unreliable narrator.  What does the reader do?   Kazuo Ishiguro is never content with surface events or just writing a clever mystery.  It doesn't really matter that the plot is not entirely believable.  There is a master storyteller at work here, grappling with larger ideas.  I will not give away the story, but I guarantee that reading it is a treat.  You will not be able to put it down.	2001-02-12
US	53036456	R3S65NVSKNAD52	0395770157	597567326	Where the Sea Used to Be	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A big rich book to savor	Rick Bass has pulled off a masterpiece in his first novel about man or machine versus nature.  The story operates on two levels - the contest between four central characters - a sort of King Lear and his daughters, except in this case one daughter and two proteges who are stand-ins for sons, geologists/oil drillers/naturalists.  The other level is the backdrop of Big Sky country, Montana.  The book is also big, long, and challenging, and sometimes hard to get your mind around. For those who want their stories in small doses and to get to the point fast, this book is not for you.  It demands a leisurely pace, which makes even I who am a patient reader sometimes squirm.  The only flaw with regard to length are some of the Dudley passages on the formation of the earch, which form a story within a story.  A lot of that I think could have been trimmed back. Some if it, and especially, Dudley's personal story is integral to the novel.  Yet, you will do yourself a disservice if you skip over the lush and lengthy descriptions of the main story.  There is a reason for it.  The setting and the characters are intertwined.  The setting shapes the characters and the characters shape the setting.  Could Bass or someone else have a written a shorter book on the same topic?  Probably, but the effect would have been lost.  Some say it is pretentious.  I disagree.  This is a book of magnitude and scale, in other words, an epic and it needs size.  To use an overworked metaphor, I believe the story has to brew likely good coffee or decant like fine wine.  The story is ultimately satisfying on all levels if you allow it.	2001-02-12
US	53036456	RSIOKNKC4Z7I3	1567400922	307791691	Water, Carry Me	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A poem, an elegy	The story and the words of this haunting and beautifully written story were the water that carried me through.  It has been a few weeks since I finished the book.  I am a prolific reader, and this this book stands out  and stands tall.  I was surprised and touched by its brilliant prose that  read like poetry and more by the fate of the character, but I don't think  one would have been possible without the other. At the end, one does feel  very close to grief, the kind that makes you double over and scream  silently. The tragedy of Una is heightened by the depth of her love and  innocence, by the beauty of the landscape and the language, next to the  incomprehension of cruelty and being caught in a political struggle that  one has not sought.  I feel that I have to immediately read &quot;Man in  the Box&quot; and everything else that Moran has written and will write.	2000-05-20
US	53036456	R3EH97J2KH1RQO	0385334893	414482955	Tulip Fever	Books	4	13	15	N	N	An engaging morality tale	You have to read Tulip Fever in the right spirit. It's a clever, literate, witty, fast-paced tale of intrigue, love, lust, and greed, and the tragedy that results from trying to outwit the gods or fate.  Yet the rhythm is  such that one can't be too sad or take it too seriously.  Just sit back for  the roller coaster ride and let the sights and sounds of 17th century  Amersterdam, and the characters in their silly and reckless behavior that  will be their undoing wash over you.	2000-05-20
US	53036456	R3LFNI3QV0RS80	0060179430	919043582	Inventing Memory: A Novel of Mothers and Daughters	Books	1	6	6	N	N	A disappointment	It has been many years since Fear of Flying came out and my reading of it at the time, a funny, irreverent, and poignant feminist manifesto that was very apropos reading for the young woman that I was.  Twenty-five plus  years later in Inventing Memory, Erica Jong appears to be evaluating what  it all means through searching for roots in four generations of a fictional  family with an immigrant great grandmother matriarch.  That is all well and  good, but the style rarely shifts from the mood of what I recall from Fear  of Flying.  Jong never stops reminding us that it is the women who carry  the generations forward, and the heck with those fickle men.  Too  convenient and too simplistic. And, also, ala Jong, they all must be  outrageous women.  My other two complaints were as such: Jong frequently  has to spell out - in case you all didn't get it! -  what she means by  &quot;inventing memory&quot;.  I like the phrase and the possible  permutations of its meaning, but I would have preferred to have it left to  the reader.  Finally, I came away feeling that I hardly knew the  characters, particularly the four women, so I wound up finding them  shallow, and not caring a lot about them.  Perhaps great granddaughter  Sarah we learn the most about and I think she's the most sympathetic  character.	2000-03-28
US	53036456	R3LO3D356L1GFQ	052594527X	858318999	Girl With a Pearl Earring	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Vivid evocation of 17th century Netherlands	If words are like brushstrokes, then Girl With a Pearl Earring produces just the right touch to the canvas of Vermeer's city, its imagined inhabitants, and finally to the enigmatic Vermeer and his portraits.  A  story based on the imaginary servant girl in Vermeer's household and in the  portrait who is unwittingly caught between the contrary whims of that  household, the expectations of her society, and allowing a small space for  her soul to flourish.  If you only have time to read one book right now,  make it this one.	2000-03-28
US	53036456	R25XA3MPPIXFGN	0688168248	127493012	The Book Borrower: A Novel	Books	4	19	21	N	N	Mixed feelings. In the end, well worth taking the time.	I guess I expected a much more traditional story of friendship and a nostalgic look at a past generation.  Instead I got this unusual, exasperating, at times confusing book.  Having said that, if you start, do  read it through.  It will reward you with its riches.  It's the kind of  book that will keep coming back at you long after you're finished.  At  first I thought, people don't talk this way, don't act this way, don't do  these things, don't have families like these, and then I thought about it  some more, and told myself....yes they do.  The characters will make you  uncomfortable.  You will not know whether to love them or hate them, and  you may go back and forth, just like in life.  My one complaint, although I  argue with myself about it -why call Deborah, Deborah, but call Toby  throughout the book by her last name - Rubin?  I found it contrived.  Maybe  I have to get out of a rut in my thinking.  I think it's probably just a  gender thing, but it still jolted. I got used to it... but just a little.	2000-03-28
US	53036456	RKSKRDC2I0NLF	078670697X	722586933	Master Georgie	Books	5	0	3	N	N	Masterful Writing	A masterful evocation of a time and a war that took place 150 years ago and life's little ironies that brought these characters together in the first place to determine their fate.	1999-11-29
US	53036456	R1DPD0YC7FT61O	0385333692	648698209	After Long Silence: A Memoir	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Moving, Engrossing, Honest. A must read!	A heart rending as well as hopeful book about the search for truth, identity, and family.  The story of Ms. Fremont's parents, her search and research, is a triumphant achievement. Clearly a courageous daughter of  courageous parents. I empathize and identify in so many ways as I am  researching my own ancestry.  Part of being human seems to be this yearning  to know where we come from so we can better understand who we are, heal the  past, and get on with life.	1999-11-29
US	53036456	R17UX30HCXGBAR	0767902912	236185551	An Equal Music	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A virtuoso performance	Mr. Seth offers a thorough and plausible sketch of the life and passion of musicians and of a string quartet. The challenges of Beethoven and Brahms as well as the struggles to prepare for a recording of an obscure  manuscript of a Bach fugue, parallel the tumultuous and impossible  relationship of the two musicians, Michael and Julia, who have renewed  their relationship after a ten year hiatus. Nature with its change of  seasons as well as the language of music carry the novel that at times  reads like a lyric poem. The not entirely likable, but real characters draw  you in. Mr. Seth does not give in to easy solutions to their complicated  lives, and in the end I was crying for Michael, although I knew it was just  a novel.	1999-09-17
