US	53038935	R2K8G6QFX0Y9Y5	0743244400	38258787	Earthbound and Heavenbent: Elizabeth Porter Phelps and Life at Forty Acres (1747-1817)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A Dazzling Evokation of 18th Century New England Life	The reviewer who found this book dull must have been reading a different book than the one I read. <br /> <br />I thought this was the most interesting biography I've read in a long time and I read a lot of biography.   <br /> <br />I loved it because the author, unlike so many recent historians, did not turn her subject into a modern woman in ancient dress. She didn't discover hidden signs of feminism or modern emotions. Instead, she gave us, bit after bit the little observations and thoughts that build up the picture of how different the thought-world and emotional life of a woman in this period was from ours.   <br /> <br />I thought the author did a particularly good job of bringing alive the very alien Calvinist worldview with which Phelps lived. She and made me realize the extent to which we have sentimentalized our view of our New England forbears and forgotten how extreme their religious views were.  I have read many books about religious history, but this one somehow got at the core of what it meant to live with the philosophical ideas that the other books explain.  <br /> <br />The author also made me think, long and hard, about what it was like to live in a world where children frequently woke up with what seemed like a cold and were dead within the day. Phelps' relentless focus on the state of her soul and her terror of eternal damnation made sense to me as the author showed us how her friends and family so often were snatched away by death with no warning.  <br /> <br />I also loved the way that the author made the house a kind of metaphor for the larger family and community life which took place within it.  I have driven by this particular house many times as it is on my way home from the local shopping mall, but had never had any idea how many people lived there, worked there, visited there, and even, though strangers, stayed there for a night on their way, walking, to central Connecticut. I don't think I will ever look at any big old farmhouse the same way again now that I have more feeling for what the life in such a house was like.  <br /> <br />The author does not write like a graduate student. I throught her writing was deft, particularly in light of the nature of the primary source material she was working with, which is heavy going to read. It is no small task to make something readable out of this kind of writing.  The author is not educated and does not write the kind of polished letters women wrote in the generation later when they grew up reading Burney and Austen. This is the writing of a woman whose reading was the Bible, hellfire sermons, and Pilgrim's Progress. <br /> <br />I'd recommend this book to anyone who has a serious interest in New England History, social history or womans' history.  <br /> <br />If you enjoy this book, another book you'll want to read is OUR OWN SNUG FIRESIDE by Jane Nylander, which gives you a great deal of information about the physical details of daily life in the Porter-Phelps household.	2004-10-02
US	53038935	R2TTN9WAIQ0ZQK	0451411161	587223073	The Silver Lion	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Passionate, rich and complex characters!	This is the kind of historical romance that is getting harder and harder to find. The characters are complex people who draw you into their lives. The plot is well-crafted and the twists and turns are not obvious beforehand. At the end of the book you feel like you know these people and you don't want to see them go. <br />And the heros!  Dark and Dangerous, Light and Tormented.  Lymond's descendents, every one of them. Yum! These are not just guys you'd run into in Wal-mart dressed up in period garb but the real thing. <br />I loved this whole series. Kerstan is on the very short list of authors who are on my auto-buy list, along with Laura Kinsale, Judith Ivory, and Mary Balogh. <br />Please, please, please, publishers! Give us more authors who write this kind of book instead of the vapid fluff that has taken over the Regency Historical niche these last few years!	2003-12-27
US	53038935	R1RXP2SI0QVEEV	0812217594	546988146	Love and Honor in the Himalayas: Coming To Know Another Culture (Contemporary Ethnography)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Gem of a Book	It's a shame this book was published by a university press that gave it such a dull academic-sounding title. The story you'll find within its pages is a wonderful eye-opening memoir that takes you deep into daily life in a tiny village in Nepal back in the 1970s--when the traditional way of life had not yet succumbed to the forces of globalization.<br />The author does what the best authors of memoirs do--she allows herself to become almost a transparent vehicle for you, the reader. You experience at a strange and exotic world peering through her eyes and reading her vivid descriptions. She keeps her analysis to a minimum but shows you enough that you can draw your own conclusions.  <br />When I was done reading this book, the people she had described seemed so real to me it was hard to believe I hadn't met them myself. <br />Honest, authentic, and completely without the pretentious literary tone that ruins so many current memoirs.  A great book!	2003-03-16
US	53038935	RWUR6FM1EEDF3	0060098538	654096350	Black Silk	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Publishers - Please Publish More Books Like This One	Reading this book reminded me of why I first got excited about Romance. This is the kind of book Laura Kinsale used to write--a rich, complex story that that stays with you for weeks after you finish the book.<br />The story was refreshingly different. I could not predict what would happen throughout the rest of the story after reading a chapter or two. It unfolded with its own logic and kept me entranced the whole time I was reading.<br />And how wonderful too to have a book that is long enough to really be a book. I spent several days with it, savoring its rich, complex language and the subtle painting of emotions. When I turned the last page, I felt as if I'd just bid goodbye to a good friend. <br />Thank you Judy Cuevas/Judith Ivory for having the guts to write something that might make some of your readers have to look up a word or two, for writing a romance that breaks all the rules,  for giving me hope for the genre!<br />And you editors out there. How about giving us some more like this. I'd buy them in a heartbeat!	2002-09-03
US	53038935	RELK3Z6GKGT3R	0966800540	136663950	French Leave	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Sparkling Gem	This is a perfect traditional regency. From the beautiful cover to the luxurious layout, to the perfect, but not over-done, Regency language, everything in this book transports the reader into an age of light-hearted elegance. The author pays homage to Heyer without copying her, and writes with a facility that few current regency authors can command.<br />I liked it a lot better than &quot;The Weaver Takes a Wife&quot;, the earlier book in the series and look forward to reading the rest of her works!	2002-01-19
US	53038935	R2AOTQEZJN8VM8	060960631X	469887306	Turn Off the Fat Genes: The Revolutionary Guide to Taking Charge of the Genes That Control Your Weight	Books	1	41	66	N	N	Bad science. Oversimplified. Diet impossible to live on	The title is misleading. There is nothing in this book that truly connects diet and differing genomes or which helps you manage yours if you have problem ones like the one in our family that makes for skinny type II diabetics. There is almost no real science in this book, just the usual diet doctor selection of a couple studies that support his argument.<br />The book champions the  extreme Ornish diet. The author bashes low carb diets citing a single study that supposedly discredits them claiming that protein, not carbs, raised insulin. I looked the study up and found that, in fact, it supported the argument of low carbers that fat and carbohydrate together boost insulin the most.<br />Years ago I lived with a group of several hundred people who followed an extreme vegetarian, whole food diet of brown rice and fibrous vegetables and fruit that matched that in this book. What we found was that most men lost weight and most women ballooned up on that regimen.  Most of the women stopped menstruating because of the extreme loss of fat. We all were starving all the time no matter how much rice we ate. I gained 30 lbs over two years which dropped off and stayed off for decades when I went back to a lower carb, meat-based diet.<br />The author also suggests that it is foolish for people to eat a low carbohydrate diet because it involves eliminating one whole food type and then tells his readers to adopt a diet that is less that 5% fat. Please explain how this is different?<br />The book also insists that eating fat makes you fat. Having eaten a low carb diet for 3 years that is 80% fat and having maintained a 20 lb weight loss throughout that period, I know this is simply not true. There can be problems with low carb diets too for long term users, but unfortunately nothing in this book gives you the tools to solve them and there is no science cited in the book that helps the educated reader understand anything new about metabolism. The author claims that eating 10x goal weight in calories will prevent metabolic slowdown, which I have personally done for many months--ending up with a very slow metabolism.<br />The diet described in this book requires that you live on beans, greens,  and whole grains with a tiny amount of fat. All meat and dairy must be eliminated. A lot of studies have shown recently that healthy fats are very important to everything from cancer prevention to mental health. The only people I personally know who have died of cancer recently were vegans and there's some evidence that cutting fats and cholesterol too low may correlate with cancer risk.<br />Beyond that, I don't think very many people can realistically expect to sustain this diet for any long period of time because of the monotony and the constant hunger that attends living without fat in the diet.<br />There was nothing new in this book. It's just another diet doctor huckster trying to make a buck using &quot;genes&quot; as a hook.l weight in calories will prevent metabolic slowdown, which I have personally done for many months--ending up with a very slow metabolism. <br />The diet described in this book requires that you live on beans, greens,  and whole grains with a tiny amount of fat. All meat and dairy must be eliminated. A lot of studies have shown recently that healthy fats are very important to everything from cancer prevention to mental health. The only people I personally know who have died of cancer recently were vegans and there's some evidence that cutting fats and cholesterol too low may correlate with cancer risk. <br />Beyond that, I don't think very many people can realistically expect to sustain this diet for any long period of time because of the monotony and the constant hunger that attends living without fat in the diet. <br />There was nothing new in this book. It's just another diet doctor huckster trying to make a buck using &quot;genes&quot; as a hook.	2001-08-11
US	53038935	R28Z6PRRJSZ5G5	0312868901	476026932	The Angel and the Sword	Books	3	6	9	N	N	All the cliches of &quot;bodice rippers&quot; without the strong plot	I've read and enjoyed several of Ms. Holland's novels. But the praise heaped on her by critics who use their reviews as handy platforms to bash other authors of historical fiction is extremely annoying to anyone well read in the genre.<br />There are lots of fine writers writing historical fiction in paperback-only release. Many of them, believe it or not, also write well-researched romances.  Laura Kinsale is a good example. Gillian Bradshaw writes just as good hardback historicals--perhaps better. The cover copy on this particular book disses every other writer in the genre so baldly as to offend anyone not related to the author.  <br />Okay, I know that the author doesn't control the cover copy. But she does control what's inside the book and this particular book was filled with the same cliches you'd find in a rack full of medieval romance historicals. All that was missing was believeable human emotion and inventive plotting.  The character development is so thin, that all the characters were like  cartoons. An &quot;angel&quot; fixes everything that goes wrong. No one in the story gives it a second thought. The &quot;romance&quot; which gives the story its happy ending has almost no scenes between the protagonists in which their relationship might be explored.<br />I am certain that had this been published in paperback with an unknown author's name on the cover, the same reviewers that praise it here would have sneered at it as a junky &quot;paranormal&quot; romance.	2001-08-06
US	53038935	R34ZLA2CYCNBES	0877283982	26056727	Healing Pluto Problems	Books	5	37	38	N	N	Excellent book for the Serious Astrologer	I have to differ with the reviewer who called this a superficial book. I've been doing astrology for 35 years and have come back to this book many times to help me deal with my own and other's Pluto problems.<br />It isn't ALL there is to Pluto, but it is a very good introduction to the set of Pluto issues that have to do with abuse and sexual trauma issues. It's also very good on how to counsel people with strong Plutos.<br />Read it along with Steven Forrest's Pluto book and Jeff Green's Pluto book for a well rounded approach to Pluto in your chart.	2001-01-05
US	53038935	R337TYWQ5FEP7R	0061014125	743991291	Dancing With Mr. D	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Mystery with Rich, 3-D Characters	Lisa Kleinholz has done it again!  Zoe, the Punk-mom sleuth who burst on the scene in her debut mystery, Exiles on Main Street, is back. This time she must unravel the complex trail of events leading to the murder of an environmental fanatic while her own marriage also unravels.<br />The puzzle Zoe must solve to find the murderer is again cleverly constructed. But this time the characters are even more real.  The love story between Zoe and her husband comes to dominate the book's mood. The emotional undertow grows stronger as the story unfolds, and I found my own emotions deeply affected by Zoe's predicament. Once again, my first thought as I finished the books was &quot;Where is the NEXT one!&quot;	2000-12-09
US	53038935	R3MJDYM5JVW36V	0195128249	395790355	Time of Our Lives: The Science of Human Aging	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Answers many questions and  presents the latest data	If you've ever wondered why we can live to 80 years while our pets or  livestock can expect to live for only a small fraction of that span, you'll  find the explanations in &quot;The Time of our Lives&quot; very  satisfying.<br />The best part of this book is its exploration of what aging  is, in biological terms, and how different modes of aging can be explained  by Darwinian theory. This is not a book on how to live longer, but rather a  book on what scientists are learning about the mechanisms and reasons for  aging.<br />Kirkwood writes in a lighthearted and readable style, but unlike  many popular science writers, he gives his reader total respect. In areas  where I keep up with medical research, (like the long-term effects of HRT)  I found his book to be right up to date with the research published within  the last year.<br />Best of all, he has no &quot;do this and live for  ever&quot; prescription--a nice change from most other books about aging  available nowadays, which seem to have been written under the sponsorship  of supplement manufacturers.<br />A pleasant and informative read!	2000-08-13
US	53038935	R2ISV2349VIGDE	0226556689	846191489	Crossing: A Memoir	Books	3	54	67	N	N	A Depressing  Definition of &quot;Woman&quot;	About halfway through the book it struck me that although the author is the same age as I am (early 50s) the womanhood he embraces is the very same womanhood my mother tried to impose on me back in the early 1960s.  <br />Womanhood, to this author, means a constant, obsessional focus on  clothes, girl-talk, shopping, clothes, makeup, acting passive in public,  hiding your smarts, kissing people in public, clothes, being sweet and  nurturing, cooking, cleaning, and thinking of men as beasts who want one  thing. . .In short, folks, McCloskey, seems to have become HIS OWN  MOTHER!<br />I kept waiting for him/her to fall in love and tell us how he/she  greeted the loved one at the end of the day holding a martini while dressed  in nothing but Saran wrap--a la Total Womanhood.<br />Like other reviewers I  was struck by the monomaniacal selfishness that infuses the author's prose.  Characters are described only in terms of whether they approve of him/her  or do not, or whether they do things for him/her or not.  He/she seems  fatally incapable of empathy for anyone but himself and completely unable  to see anyone else's viewpoint but his/her own. <br />The author demonizes  those who don't agree with him, like his family, psychiatrists, and what he  calls &quot;radical feminists&quot; which is the term he applies to any  politically active woman who doesn't want him to be her personal  spokesperson. <br />He is very angry at his ex-wife and children for the way  they cut themselves off from him, but the cold, intolerant, insensitive way  he describes them in the book and the lack of any sign that he ever made  any attempt to understand what they were going through made it pretty clear  to me that they were probably not acting entirely irrationally in  protecting their lacerated emotions by cutting off contact.<br />I feel very  strongly that people do have a right to do whatever they want with their  bodies and their lives. However, it is one thing to dress up as something  and another to claim that you ARE the thing you are dressing up as and then  appoint yourself spokesman for that group. <br />If McCloskey had gotten his  eyelids done three years ago instead of his sex organs, would he be treated  this seriously telling us what life is like as an Asian American?  Especially if most of what he told us was how inscrutable he'd become? <br />I  doubt it.  It is an ironic commentary on women's situation in this country  that the media will always be more interested in a man telling us what it  is to be a &quot;woman&quot; than they are in the real thing.	2000-06-28
US	53038935	R2CMUWF1DYBVSU	0553106503	589067427	Bones of the Master: A Buddhist Monk's Search for the Lost Heart of China	Books	5	2	5	N	N	An exquisite tale of travel on every level	The collaboration of a neer-do-well middle aged Jewish poet and a Ch'an master, this book defies description.  Yes, Tsung Tsai and his people have endured Holocaust-like suffering, but this book transcends the Chinese  horror story genre to become something quite different.  And yes, there is  a wondeful journey to Inner Mongolia at the heart of this tale, but to  dismiss it as travel writing--even wonderful travel writing a la Eric  Hansen--does not do it justice.<br />What is the sound of one mind opening?  Read this book and find out.  <br />It's on my list of the best 3 books of the  year.	2000-06-07
US	53038935	RNA3WTP1QY8NT	0312228139	201133573	Chasing the Mountain of Light: Across India on the Trail of the Koh-i-Noor Diamond	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Travel Writing at its Very Best	This is not a book about diamonds. Instead it is the chronicle of a wonderful offbeat trip through India tracing the path that the Koh-i-noor diamond may have followed.<br />The author is that rarest and most estimable  kind of travel writer who acts as the reader's eyes and ears. When Rushby  describes a scene you see it, hear it, smell it and feel it.  When he  describes a conversation he captures the person's speech patterns, their  personal idiosyncrasies, and makes them come alive.  Unlike many other  current travel writers, Rushby does not waste your time with pages about  himself and his personal problems or his reactions to the people and places  he visits.  Instead, he gives you enough data so that you can make up your  own mind about the poeple and places he describes. <br />And what fascinating  places they are!  Southern Indian haunts of small time diamond smugglers,  the ruined palaces of Mughal emperors, the studies of eccentric professors,  the shabby apartments of claiments to the wealth of deposed rajas. All  these are there and more, as the author moves through a series of cheap  hotels via questionable transport of the sort that the reader loves to hear  about but is glad not to have to actually use.<br />This book reminded me a  lot of Eric Hansen's Motoring with Mohammed, another of my favorite travel  books. It's a definite &quot;must read&quot; for any serious armchair  traveller!	2000-05-21
US	53038935	R1MHFGXAT236SZ	157322135X	164151671	The Distance to the Moon: A Road Trip into the American Dream	Books	3	8	10	N	N	A Dispiriting Drive through a Male Midlife Crisis	Ever wonder what's going through the minds of those fat balding dentists you always see driving expensive sports cars?  Well now you can find out. <br />The author's highly contrived trip gives him an opportunity to display  lots of mildly interesting details garnered during library research into  the history of cars in America. Unfortunately, this material competes for  space with far too many pages of nostalgic rumination about the author's  teenage years, his first marriage, and his current problems with wife  number two. He drives across the US obsessing about his middle aged body,  drinking too much, eating junk, and reporting with glee anytime a hot babe  responds with interest to his &quot;pussy machine&quot; (his words, not  mine.) <br />This strikes me as yet another book crafted by an agent and the  publisher's marketing department with an eye to TV appearances and tie-ins  rather than the serious literary &quot;road story&quot; it purports to be.  It's real theme is the whining of priviledged white middle aged men who,  though they got a big piece of it, didn't get it all.  It bears the same  relationship to &quot;On the Road&quot; that a Big Mac does to the meatloaf  blue plate special at Stella's Roadside Dinner.	2000-05-16
US	53038935	R2BZ3RJPJY1F00	0679455094	82576213	A Season in Hell : A Memoir	Books	4	20	22	N	N	Grim but Thought-Provoking	As I read this this grim memoir of a cure almost worse than the disease I kept comparing the author's wealthy and privileged situation to that of the rest of us women who don't have millions of dollars, marvelous famous  friends, apartments convenient to top New York city Cancer Centers, and  medical friends who can help us find the very best specialist. <br />As  miserable as the author's sufferings are (and they ARE miserable) they pale  in comparison to what a person would go through who had the same disease  but could not afford around the clock private nursing, medical consultation  after medical consultation, and the occasional retreat to a pleasant summer  home the author describes.<br />This is not in any way a slam of the book,  which I thought was a very accurate and revealing portrayal of what happens  to anyone who suffers a serious health crisis that puts them at the mercy  of unknown doctors and huge, impersonal hospitals. Instead I thought that  this book would probably be a good reason to read this book before you sign  your next HMO contract since it shows you just how dangerous it would be if  you got a serious disease and were prevented from accessing top specialists  and having the benefit of nursing and adequate rehabilitative services.  <br />I have personally experienced the same kind of supercilious negative  treatment from doctors that French details here, as well as suffering from  dangerous misdiagnosis, having doctors ignore painful and crippling  symptoms, and being left with permanent damage from misprescribed drugs, so  I knew what she was talking about. I greatly respected her for telling a  story in public that most people don't want to hear. <br />This is not your  usual disease-of-the-week tearjerker nor is it a &quot;how I saw God  through cancer&quot; memoir. It's a brutal, step by step documentation of  how the quality of life erodes as a result of serious disease that makes  all of us think about what we'd want to do if it wereto happen to  us--which it could and very well may. <br />The author isn't a saint and  unlike other reviewers here I found her bleak honesty about her emotions  refreshing. Life does this and it is hard as hell to deal with. I'm  grateful that this woman, obviously a writer to her very (damaged) bones,  made the heroic effort to write down for us this record of her journey  towards physical dissolution--and as a writer myself, I'm particularly  impressed that she was able to produce a work this polished while dealing  with the physical limitations she describes.	2000-04-28
US	53038935	R2NRXILWEAKXVG	1579540112	793588906	The Doctor's Book of Home Remedies for Seniors	Books	2	23	23	N	N	If you think Ibuprofen is a &quot;Home Remedy&quot; You'll Love This.	I found this book condescending and weak on useful health advice.  Despite the &quot;home remedies&quot; title, the book's solution for just about anything that ails you is Ibuprofen. I expected far more emphasis on  non-prescription health solutions from a book with the title &quot;home  remedies&quot;.  The book's heavy emphasis on the side effects of  prescription drugs made it clear that the authors assumed that the average  senior is a prescription drug junkie and there is nothing in this book that  will help such junkies kick their habits. <br />The medical advice in this  book is very bland-- the same stuff you'll find in the magazines in your  doctors' waiting rooms and in the mailings you get from your HMO. I did not  find many home remedies listed here that my own doctor has recommended to  me (for example, boric acid for recurrent yeast infections and tea tree  oil.) There is no mention of low carbohydrate diets  as an alternative to  pancreas-destroying glyburide drugs for those in the early stages of Type  II diabetes.  There's nothing about Condoitin and Glucosamine Sulfate for  arthritis. These are all &quot;home remedies&quot; that are gaining  increased support from doctors because they work for many people and are  far cheaper than expensive prescription drugs. Their complete omission from  a book of this sort was a disappointment. <br />If you want to learn more  about what you can do at home to help improve your health, save your money  and use the rich health resources available on the Web!	2000-04-06
US	53038935	R2GEH9QG59NQN7	0061014117	889832898	Exiles on Main Street	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	A Beautifully Crafted Mystery - I couldn't Put it Down	It is rare to find a mystery that manages to combine a richly defined cast of characters with a well constructed plot that keeps you turning pages long after you know it's time for bed. But that is exactly what you'll find  in Exiles on Mainstreet.<br />The whodunit facets of this tale are extremely  well designed.  There are twists and turns to the plot that catch you just  when you think you know what is going on and make the story that much more  compelling. The characters are fully developed and have distinctive voices.  The setting is perfectly described.  <br />This is an author who can hold her  own with authors of detective fiction like Martha Grimes and Lawrence Block  who create vibrant characters in distinctive settings and let them lead the  reader through emotionally and mentally satifying mystery labyrinths.   My  only complaint is that I yearn to read more from this author but so far  this is her only book!	2000-04-05
US	53038935	R1L4HFOV93J4ZG	0874519470	438168847	The Adventures of Allegra Fullerton: Or, A Memoir of Startling and Amusing Episodes from Itinerant Life―A  Novel (Hardscrabble Books–Fiction of New England)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The History is Stronger than the Fiction	If you enjoy visiting the 19th century and appreciate authors who get things right, you'll enjoy this book.<br />The author has done a workmanlike job of recreating New England and Italy in the 1840s. There are guest  appearances by Ruskin, Margaret Fuller, and visit to a historically  accurate idealistic community.  You'll learn a lot about the world of  American artists in this period too.<br />Unfortunately, I found this novel  weak as a novel. Though the plot provides a lot of opportunity to show us  conflict, resolution, and character development most of the action takes  place offstage. Allegra's personality is static. Though she writes in a  first person voice she displays little or no hint of internal emotional  conflicts despite a life filled with moral and ethical problems of the sort  that would have generated  100s of pages of agonized reflections in the  work of her mentor, Margaret Fuller, or, indeed, that of any other woman of  her period. <br />Allegra described illicit sex so matter of factly that my  feeling was that the author had imposed a 20th century male personality  onto this  supposedly 19th century female character. I found it very hard  to believe that a woman like Allegra woud so easily blew off a suitor with  whom she had had sex--to say nothing of the ease with which she recovers  from months of captivity by her would-be rapist, and the way she gets  through an adulterous affair with her teacher with only a few tears.  <br />Real women, no matter how strong their artistic gifts or dedication  might be, go through more than this even now when dealing with such issues.   A 19th century woman raised in rural, church-going New England, would have  gone through far more.<br />The ending of the novel is disconnected from the  story line and is a major  deus-ex-machina disappointment which leaves us  completely unsatisfied on a dramatic level too.  This might be acceptable  in a biography but a novel should have a more aesthetic form, startingand  ending in places that makes sense in terms of character development and  plot climax and resolution.<br />I'd suggest that the author might do better  choosing stories with male protagonists, since his outlook and interests  seem to me to be so much more male than female.  Having slogged through  Margeret Fuller's diaries myself, (and those of many other early 19th  century women) I've found that the truly interesting thing about these  women is how different their mental lives are from ours today. It does them  a disservice to paint them as being free of the very strong culturally  induced emotional conflicts they had to break through to become the heroic  feminists they were.	2000-03-26
US	53038935	RI6BS5FKN8EDB	0684815656	713349149	Partisans: Marriage, Politics, and Betrayal among the New York Intellectuals	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A Juicy Tabloid Read for The Few Intellectuals Who Care	It's hard now to imagine a world in which anyone paid this kind of attention to celebrities who weren't in the movies and couldn't dribble.  But  I found this book a delightful, if not particularly self-improving  romp through the gossip of a vanished age.<br />The drinking!  The seriousness  about ideas especially politics!  The promiscuity! The casualness with  which poets and &quot;poor&quot; writers acquire antique homes in  Connecticut and Maine, to say nothing of duplex apartments in mid-town New  York!<br />The author, who writes with a female sensibility under a male name,  does a very good job of portraying the frightening way in which physical  and emotional abuse were accepted as just part of a normal marriage in the  period before the emergence of true Feminism in the 1970s. His book reminds  me of why I can never share Generation X's nostalgia for the 1950s. It was  a terrible time to be female. Partisans makes it clear that even the female  intellectual superstars portrayed in its pages had to put up with far more  suffereing in terms of abuse, sexual infidelity, and having to do all the  housework even when you were a world famous (woman) writer than any one of  us would tolerate today.<br />Definitely worth reading!	2000-03-20
US	53038935	R26OZ7YFWCDBD	0385479646	630084340	Bound Feet & Western Dress: A Memoir	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Haunting - Illuminates how culture can cripple women's minds	As Yu-i tells her story, it became clear to me that even though her feet had not been bound, her mind had been fatally wounded by the conditioning she received as a child that &quot;woman is nothing.&quot;<br />Mistreated and  abused by her husband she still devoted her life to protecting the the  &quot;face&quot; of his parents and even his perverse second wife. <br />She  would not allow herself to remarry until very old because of the shame it  would bring on her family, though she was completely blameless in her  husband's abandonment of her.<br />Hearing her tell her story in her own words  gave me much greater insight into why it is so often women who perpetuate  the women-mutilating traditions of dysfunctional cultures. I could clearly  see in the attitudes she shares with us how a woman, no matter how brave,  who grows up in a culture that finds only mutilated women  &quot;beautiful&quot; will internalize the self-destructive attitudes that  have been drummed into her during childhood.<br />I felt that the author's  interweaving of her own story into the story of her great aunt weakened the  book. The author is still very young and has not gone through the crises  and major life decisions that would maker her own story complete enough to  make it the kind of memoir material that could compete in interest with  that of her great aunt.  However, having I look forward to hearing  &quot;the rest of the story&quot; when she is older. She is clearly on her  way to being a fine writer!	2000-03-18
US	53038935	R2ZW4PX9MBHZ4	0688148980	594503815	Women's Moods: What Every Woman Must Know About Hormones, The Brain, And Emotional Health	Books	2	94	119	N	N	Very Disappointing	We really need a good book on the relationship of women's hormones to women's moods. Unfortunately, this is not it.<br />This book, written by a psychiatrist and a nurse, relies almost entirely on case histories to make  its points, with almost no examination of the scientific basis for its  conclusions.  <br />So the reader may come away believing that science well  understands the role of hormones in mental illness and has figured out the  causes of depression, which an examination of the actual literature shows  is very far from the case. <br />Many of the authors' explanations of the  origins of mental illnesses like depression are current theories that  depend on a few. not particularly well controlled. studies, not well  established fact.<br />If you'd like to believe that Prozac and its cousins  are the cure for any and all of women's emotional problems, you'll find  reinforcement here. In almost every case history the authors present, the  sequence is: patient has mental problems, patient reveals earlier history  of trauma, patient takes Prozac, patient feels fine.   <br />The authors  propound the currently fashionable medical philosophy--based largely on  studies funded by the drug companies that produce SSRI drugs like  Prozac--that depression and other mental illnesses, once experienced, are  lifetime diseases that should be treated with permanent (and expensive)  drug therapy.  <br />The phamacological approach may be useful for the small  percentage of the population that has serious mental problems, and this  book may be useful to them and their families. But like so much current  psychiatric writing (and drug company advertising), this book medicalizes a  good 80% of ALL women, claiming that if you lose weight, gain weight, feel  listless, feel energetic, feel sad, feel bouyant, have trouble with  relationships, or have any number of other common symptoms, you are  deluding yourself that you are healthy and should seriously consider  treating your lifelong disease--what the authors call &quot;brain  failure.&quot; <br />The sketchy non-drug strategy included in the book  depends heavily on diet and exercise. Unfortunately, the diet advice is  seriously flawed. The authors recommend the low fat, high carbohydrate diet  that causes mood swings and hypoglycemic sugar binging in many women,  particularly at menopause, which current research is starting to show may  actually cause hyperinsulemia and resultant heart disease in many women.  There is no mention in the discussion of hormones of the very important  interaction of insulin and female hormones which explains a lot of PMS food  cravings and mood swings.<br />Finally, the discussion of menopause is  extremely brief and  does not begin to address the issue of how natural  menopausal changes and HRT affect mood.  <br />This book is probably only of  use to people with clearly diagnosed psychiatric diseases like bipolar  disorder and serious postpartum depression/psychosis who need information  on how to take their drugs in conjunction with pregnancy and the menstrual  cycle. <br />For those of us who get along okay but would like a better  understanding of our moods and how hormones affect them, and who don't want  to enrich the legal drug pushers, this book is a waste of time.	2000-02-08
US	53038935	RENLCRLT27YMQ	0434427454	4078177	The Worst Journey in the Midlands	Books	5	6	6	N	N	This book had me laughing out loud	I found this book in the stacks of our local Public Library.  <br />Written in 1983, it details a trip made in an old rowboat from Wales to London via rivers and canals.  The author's dry wit--much of it directed at  himself--is delightful. <br />I found this book especially refreshing as I  have recently read a couple of the Extreme Adventure books that are so  popular now. This book reads like a parody of such works, though written  long before them.<br />I'm glad to see that the author is still writing and  appears to have a good readership.	2000-01-28
US	53038935	R2BH86M287U9JR	1558491864	912996475	My Friend, My Friend: The Story of Thoreau's Relationship with Emerson	Books	5	36	36	N	N	Thought Provoking - Biography at its Very Best	This dual biography deserves far more attention than it is likely to get. That's a shame, because it skillfully explores not only the complex relationship between two great men, but the very nature of friendship  itself.<br />Living in an age that obsesses about sexuality in all  relationships, it is hard for us to understand the place that the concept  of mystical friendship held for tne intellectual rebels of the early 19th  century. Emergson, Bronson Alcott, Margaret Fuller and the rest of their  circle explored this theme over and over--in platonic love affairs that  crashed and burnt on the rocks of sexual attraction, in attempts at  communal life that foundered when individuals could not give themselves to  the needs of the group, and as we see so clearly in this biography, in  negotiating the shoals of the mentor/protege relationship. <br />The  focus of  the book is the mentor role that was so comfortable for Emerson and  increasingly frustrating to his protege, Thoreau.  Emerson, whose fame grew  throughout the period of this friendship never truly respected Thoreau's  achievements, particularly not his masterwork, Walden, though he was  instrumental in supporting Thoreau through the many years it took to  produce that masterwork. It is ironic that in our time Thoreau's work still  sells and still maintains its relevance to new readers while the once  famous Emerson is now only a dim presence of interest only to scholars of  American Intellectual History.<br />Smith does the biographer's job  masterfully, drawing heavily on primary sources to give the reader enough  information to draw his own conclusions about what might have been going on  inside both men as their friendship evolved. He has plowed through  mountains of source material--as just about everyone involved in this high  octane intellectual circle Concord left multivolume memoirs, journals and  letters--and distilled out the truly important quotations and details that  show us the subtle developement of this friendhsip. <br />That said, I did not  personally agree with Smith's own opinions about the psychological factors  at work. My biggest complaint, as someone who has also spent significant  amounts of time with the primary sources here (in my past life as a history  Ph.D. candidate) is that Smith ignores the extent to which Emerson's  character was formed by the death first of his father and then of  his  beloved first wife, who was dying of TB even as they wed.  Early life  taught Emerson that to feel love was to feel pain. So he spent the rest of  his life barricading himself behind the intellectual defenses that kept him  from feeling anything too deeply. Emerson's tragedy was that he sent out  strong tendrils of love and affection throughout his life, and then coldly  cut off everyone--not just Thoreau--who responded.  But it is hard today,  when we are largely sheltered from such things, to imagine what it would be  like to live in a world where your father, wife, and oldest child each died  just as you had come to love them. <br />Smith also describes Thoreau as  someone who never separated from his mother and saw her in the inaccessible  women he got attached to, using this to explain his failure to ever form an  adult relationship with a woman. I think he misses the far more likely  explanation that like many men who never came to terms with their natural  homosexuality, Thoreau found himself attracted to the women who were the  sexual objects of the men who were the focus of his true attraction--be it  his brother's sweetheart or Emerson's wife--because this was a way to get  closer to these men who were actual objects of his love.  But again, it  would be a grave mistake to try to cast Thoreau as a 19th Century Gay  poster boy. It is quite likely, given the culture he lived in, that Thoreau  himself never much a clue of what it is he was truly attracted to. <br />But  it is when considering issues like this, that the true value of this bookemerges: because the author gives you enough data to let you draw your own  conclusions, without cloying analysis or politically correct projections of  the concerns of our generation on these people of another age. <br />I hope  this book gets noticed by those who nominate books for one of the  prestigeous literary prizes it so clearly deserves, bringing it to the  notice of more readers!	2000-01-21
US	53038935	R3R0QW1HPQYUYG	389508459X	569473707	Mansfield Park (Konemann Classics)	Books	3	35	45	N	N	A Strange Book - Perhaps Austen in Drag?	Like all devoted lovers of Jane Austen, I have long pondered why she chose to write this, of all books, at time she was experiencing the intoxicating success of Pride and Prejudice.<br />The protagonist is a loathesome little  priss. Austen herself says so in her letters. Fanny Price is neurotic and  oversensitive where Austen's other heroines are brash and healthy. Even  Austen's own family found the ending as odd and disappointing as do  subsequent generations of readers.<br />So there's a puzzle to be solved here.  The answer may lie in the fact that this book was written when, after a  lifetime of obscurity, Austen found herself, briefly, a huge success. As is  so often the case with writers, the success of her earlier book may have  given her the courage to decided write about something that REALLY mattered  to her--and what that was was her own very complex feelings about the  intensely sexual appeal of a morally unworthy person.<br />This topic, the  charm of the scoundrel, is one that flirts through all her other books,  usually in a side plot.  However, the constraints of Austen's day made it  impossible for her to write the story of a woman who falls for a scoundrel  with a sympathetic viewpoint character.<br />So what I think Austen may have  decided to do was to write this story using Edmund--a male--as the  sympathetic character who experiences the devastating sexual love of  someone unworthy. Then, through a strange slight of hand, she gives us a  decoy protagonist--Fanny Price, who if she is anything, is really the  judgemental, punishing Joy Defeating inner voice--the inner voice that  probably kept Jane from indulging her own very obvious interest in  scoundrels in real life!<br />In defense of this theory, consider these  points:<br />1.  Jane herself loved family theatricals. Fanny's horror of them  and of the flirting that took place is the sort of thing she made fun of in  others. Jane also loved her cousin, Eliza, a married woman of the  scoundrelly type, who flirted outrageously with Jane's brother Henry when  Jane was young--very much like Mary Crawford. The fact is, and this bleeds  through the book continuously, Austen doesn't at all  like Fanny Price!<br />To make it more complex, Fanny's relationship with Henry Crawford is an  echo of the Edmund-Mary theme, but Austen makes Henry so appealing that few  readers have forgiven Austen for not letting Fanny liven up a little and  marry him! No. Austen is trying to make a case for resisting temptation,  but in this book she most egregiously fails.<br />2. Austen is famous for  never showing us a scene or dialogue which she hadn't personally observed  in real life, hence the off-stage proposals in her other books.<br />Does  this not make it all the more curious that the final scene between Edmund  and Mary Crawford in which he suffers his final disillusionment and  realizes the depths of her moral decay comes to us with some very  convincing dialogue?  Is it possible that Jane lived out just such a scene  herself? That she too was forced by her inner knowlege of what was right to  turn away from a sexually appealing scoundrel of her own?<br />3. Fanny gets  Edmund in the end, but it is a joyless ending for most readers because it  is so clear that he is in love with Mary. Can it be that Austen here was  suggesting the grim fate that awaits those who do turn away from  temptations--a lifetime of listening to that dull, upstanding, morally  correct but oh so joyless voice of reason?<br />We'll never know.  Cassandra  Austen burnt several years' worth of her sister's letters--letters written  in the years before she prematurely donned her spinster's cap and gave up  all thoughts of finding love herself.  Her secrets whatever they were, were  kept within the family.<br />But one has to wonder about what was really going  on inside the curious teenaged girl who loved Samual Richardson's rape saga  and wrote the sexually explicit oddity that comes to us as LadySusan.  Perhaps in Mansfield Park we get a dim echo of the trauma that turned the  joyous outrageous rebel who penned Pride and Prejudice in her late teens  into the staid, sad woman when she was dying wrote Persuasion--a novel  about a recaptured young love.<br />So with that in mind, why not go and have  another look at Mansfield Park!	2000-01-21
US	53038935	R1TLMWYXOD14W4	0395636264	80989159	River-Horse:  A Voyage Across America	Books	1	23	33	N	N	Boring, Poorly Written, and Self-Indulgent	I find it hard to believe that the reviews on this page refer to the same book I read--or should say, TRIED to read. I abandoned the effort about three quarters of the way through the book after encountering a page of  Ulysses parody that seemed to mark Least Heat Moon's decision to stop even  trying to craft serious prose. By then the only thing that had kept me  reading was the hours I'd wasted getting that far, in the hope that  eventually something good would turn up. I was wrong. <br />The book itself is  nothing but a marketing concept beaten into the ground: let's take a boat  ride from coast to coast. The focus is relentlessly on the Author's  thoughts and you will learn very little about the thousands of miles of  America he crosses.  <br />At the start, the author gives his companion a  cutsy nickname instead of a real name. This  gives us a hint that there  will be no attempt to get to know character as the story unfolds. The few  people met on the journey are treated as stereotypes. In the place of  information or character development the author treats us to horrifying  amounts of pretty writing, of the sort that calls for serious editing. I  kept reading paragraphs out loud to my own (also unnamed) companion because  they were so involuted and pretentious that they sounded like parody. <br />If  this is your idea of a great adventure, I'd suggest buying a kayak and  hitting your nearest local stream or pond.  You'll learn more in 20 minutes  that way than you will plowing through this turgid would-be masterwork.	2000-01-19
US	53038935	R2AW6SVYU4L2JK	0380727293	183030674	Dr. Atkins' New Diet Revolution	Books	2	61	68	N	N	Low Carb works great, but this is NOT the best book on it	I've been living on a very low carb diet for almost 2 years.  My once high blood sugars are normal, my cholesterol has dropped, my blood pressure is normal, and I have maintained a weight loss of over 25 lbs--while going  through menopause!<br />However, I really HATE the way that Dr. Atkins makes  it sound like he invented this diet, and I hate even more the very poor way  he explains it and the fact that he uses a snake-oil salesman tone to make  it sound much easier and much less complex than it really is.  <br />His  approach has caused thousands of people to abaondon the diet because they  couldn't get it working for them, or because his approach is so extreme  they couldn't get started. <br />He has also singlehandedly alienated the  health establishment with his sloppy science and self-promotion. This has  kept doctors from realizing that the low carb approach, as odd as it  sounds, avoids heart disease and can stop type II diabetes in its  tracks--for anyone who, like myself, is insulin resistant. <br />&quot;Protein  Power&quot; by the Dr. Eades couple is a much much better book that will  give you everything you need to get started.   If you are a type II  diabetic, do yourself a favor and get &quot;Dr. Bernstein's Diabetes  Solution,&quot; by Dr. Richard Bernstein, which gives you the details on  how to use an ultra low carb diet to avoid diabetic complications. <br />Then  after you've done your reading, visit the alt.support.diet.low-carb  newsgroup for help in fine tuning this diet and making it work. There are  dozens (hundreds?) of folks there who have low carbed for years and can  attest to the healthy effects that low carbing has had on their  bodies--complete with before and after lab results.	2000-01-19
US	53038935	R26TOZVLXF88PU	0805060804	531988969	The Clone Age : Adventures in the New World of Reproductive Technology	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Scarier than any horror movie!	Did you know that a doctor can take a sample of your tissues, isolate some factor and then SELL it to drug companies for big bucks without asking your permission or paying you a dime?<br />I didn't, until I read this book.<br />What  about the profits that gene researchers are making by patenting YOUR genes?   Or about the undisclosed financial interest that regulators have in  allowing such patents to proceed.<br />It's all in here and it makes for some  very scary reading.<br />While most of us weren't looking, that portion of the  medical community motivated primarily by greed has ventured into some very  odd territory. The repercussions may make medicine even more expensive to  the consumer at the same time as it makes health insurance even more  unattainable. <br />In a world where medical mistakes already cost more lives  each year than Cancer or AIDS, we cannot afford to trust our doctors to  watch out for our best interests.  This book makes it painfully clear the  extent to which profit, rather than care for patients drives genetic and  reproductive medicine.<br />A MUST read.	1999-12-08
US	53038935	R3D2PC7XNNRRPZ	0684849135	103946658	Why We Buy: The Science Of Shopping	Books	3	73	76	N	N	There are Really Two Books Here - One Great, One Rotten	When the author sticks to reporting on the things he's observed over many thousands of hours of watching actual shoppers shop, this is an informative useful book.  My partner sells pottery out of a studio/gallery and we found  much of the data Underhill presents relevant to our experience  selling.<br />However, once he runs out of facts a couple of chapters into the  book, Underhill pads the rest of the book out with opinions, and this is  where the problems begin. While he may be an excellent observer, Underhill  is a poor business analyst. He doesn't understand the dynamics of many of  the businesses he comments on. Many of his suggestions are embarassingly  ignorant of the realities behind the businesses he discuss, or, worse,  suggest--as if he invented the concepts-- that companies should do things  that they have already been doing for years.<br />His chapter on the Internet  is a perfect example of both of these criticisms.  As someone who has  designed and run a successful internet sales site for 5 years I wasn't sure  which was greater--his ignorance or his condescension to those of us who  have actually done the pioneering work he snipes at. <br />So read this book  with the understanding that Underhill is a pretty good  anthropologically-trained note taker,whose observations have turned up  several things of interest to the retailer, at the same time that he is a  pathetically bad business consultant and would-be futurist, with a  pathological need to self-promote and a very annoying prose style.	1999-12-03
US	53038935	R1IC7NZNQY3H5K	0684812177	352786421	Ross MacDonald : A Biography	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Must Reading for Genre Novelist Wannabes	This exhaustively researched book is not so much a biography of Ken Millar (real name of &quot;Ross Macdonald&quot;) so much as a history of Millar's career as a writer, and as such it is extremely valuable to anyone who  dreams of being an author.<br />Millar examplifies the classic situation of  the genre author who achieves &quot;overnight&quot; fame after publishing  18 previous critically aclaimed books. This book makes it clear just how  much work and how much frustration is involved in the life of the genre  novelist, as well as portraying how complex it can be to deal with success  when it finally comes.<br />What is particularly interesting in this story  too, is the fact that Millar's wife, Margaret, was a successful mystery  writer long before he was. The way that these two authors, with their  quirky, authorial personalities, supported each other through their life's  journeys and tragedies is particularly poignant, though Nolan,  unfortunately, takes a very negative attitude--unjustified by much of the  data he himself presents--towards Margaret's personality and achievements.  <br />Today's novelists often look back with envy at those who wrote in the  &quot;Golden Age&quot; of the pulps, before TV had ended the brief Age of  Literacy of the first half of this century.  Reading this book will dispell  much of that envy. The tiny numbers of books sold in that &quot;golden  age&quot; (3,500 being a typical hard cover sale of Ross Macdonald's first  16 books) and the pathetic sums paid him for paperback rights to books that  had gotten enthusiastic NYTimes reviews show us that if anything today's  genre writers are doing better(in adjusted dollars), not worse than those  of Millar's day.	1999-12-03
US	53038935	R2M6VI2LOD589H	0898622247	433401391	Managing Pain Before It Manages You	Books	1	75	106	N	N	A condescending waste of time	I'm not surprised to see the blurbs from MDs and PhDs that appear in the reviews below--and the complete lack of comment from people actually IN pain. <br /> This book talks down to the reader at all times, making it clear that the overeducated author assumes that you, dear reader, are too dumb to understand all but the most generic material.    <br />Her language is downright painful to read--unless you are the kind of person who enjoys seeing words like &quot;cognitive&quot; used in every second paragraph.  <br /> But let's go beyond style to content. The author is not up-to-date in her coverage of pain therapy for several chronic diseases covered in this book, most notably Interstitial Cystitis.  Despite her own claims to the contrary, her approach tends to be, &quot;If you doctor can't find the cause of your pain, it probably is in your mind.&quot; Coupled with her poor coverage of medical treatments for pain syndromes, a sufferer from a disease like Interstitial cystitis, who reads this book might well end up taking Prozac when what she really needs is acupuncture or Elmiron.   <br /> There is lots of lip service to meditational techniques, but the author's coverage of these topics is heavy in acronyms and low in understanding.  It's clear she has read a few books on the subject and feels comfortable reducing each one to a paragraph.  This is one area where the &quot;Cliff's Notes&quot; approach will simply not work.  Save your money and buy a better book!	1997-11-19
US	53038935	R3S2CWCIQI1KF9	0385262191	886598555	Healing into Life and Death	Books	5	72	72	N	Y	Real help for anyone dealing with the intolerable	There's no self-help baloney or New Age airheadedness in this book.  In it you'll find  the deeply moving words of a man who really knows something about extreme pain and suffering and what you can do to cope with them.<br /> Levine has the ability to put into words concepts that are very hard to get at.  If you've been put off by people teaching meditation, or if other past experience has made you think you simply can't meditate, you may find, as I did, that this book opens up a new kind of meditation that really can help you find peace and inner healing.<br /> It also helps you think about illness and suffering in new ways, very different from those you'll find in most self-help books.  Levine moves you away from the idea of &quot;beating illness&quot; which can become intensely self-destructive if you are not experiencing the usual New Age Book miracle cure.  He shows you how much anger you feel towards yourself when you are in pain, and how this self-directed anger can intensify your pain.  Finally he shows you how to &quot;make room&quot; around your pain and let it float, with a series of directed meditations that I have found to be extremely helpful.<br /> The techniques in this book are particularly good for people who are in physical pain or who are dealing with incurable illness, though they also work well for people dealing with emotional crises.<br /> This is such a useful book, I'd say, don't wait until you are in the sort of crisis where you need the techniques it teaches.  Every one of us will face pain and death at some point, and this book gives you practical, down-to-earth tools for living with them.	1997-11-19
