US	53039492	R2EBW4T420OH06	0385501145	116419398	The Songs of the Kings: A Novel (Unsworth, Barry)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A taut, lyrical retelling of the story of Iphegenia at Aulis	Here is a worthy historical novel.  Beautifully crafted, written with compelling force, it recounts the extraordinary incident at Aulis which preceded the Trojan War.  Buy it and you will thank me!  All of the stock characters appear, though in an interesting twist, the story is largely told from the point of view of Calchas.<br />In the Iliad, you will remember, Nestor, as the aged veteran, is accorded considerable respect.  Not here.  Here Nestor appears as an aged quack, lovingly tended to by his two sons.  He is given to amusing outbursts from time to time.  One occurs at an important meeting of the chiefs.  Silence descends at one point during which what are described at the \\"plaintive mutterings\\" of Nestor can embarrassingly be heard.  His sons attempt to silence him.  Readers of the Iliad will well remember that Nestor was fond of talking up his past heroics.  Here he can be heard reminiscing aloud about  a cattle raid into Elis he had made in his distant youth:<br /><br />`....show these Trojan dogs a thing or two, I'd be over there in two shakes of a duck's tail if I was young again, in those days I could out distance the wind, I would race ahead of it, as I did when we were rustling cattle in Elis, they couldn't stop us...I heard the wind behind me, wailing because it couldn't keep up...'<br />There is a running gag, that is extremely funny in places, that focuses upon the stumbling invention of the Olympic Games by Ajax, of all people.  Bored out of his mind at Aulis, Ajax announces to Calchas that he intends to organise a \\"Day of Games\\".  \\"Something never heard of before\\", he proudly announces.  The notion had come to him in a dream which is why he brought it to, Calchas, Calchas \\"being the chap best qualified in the dream department.'<br />One of his lackeys shouts out, `We could have races!' This interruption annoys Ajax who turns on the man saying, `Numbskull, there are races already.  Everyone knows what a race is.  I am talking about something completely new.'<br />As for the dream itself, this is quite funny.  In Ajax' dream, he not unsurprisingly appears at the forefront of a competition which sounds a lot like a decathlon - only the events are all events at which he would be particularly good, such a wrestling and the javelin.  At the end of the competition, he suddenly hears a great clamour, everyone chanting, \\"Ajax! Ajax! Ajax has won the most points!\\"  This inspired him, in effect, to invent the Olympic Games:<br />\\"...and it came to me that some god was telling me to organise a Games Day with different events, not just running - I'm too heavy for running - javelin throwing, for example, and give points to the winner and the one coming in second and so on.'\\"<br />It will perhaps not have escaped your notice that his conception of the Games is developed along lines that will guarantee his victory.  It would seem the Games were no different 3,000 years ago -- rigged<br />Perhaps one of the only unsatisfying aspects of Unsworth's treatment of the story comes with his depiction of Achilles.  If you recall Euripides' version, you will know that the story is as much about Achilles as anything else.  It is about his education.  He was not as one dimensional at Unsworth would have it.  We get not a glimmer of that here.  Achilles ends the book as he began it.  We see no hint of the sort of man he will become by the time of his death at Troy.  And this was profoundly disappointing.<br />A good example is a confrontation between Ajax and Achilles over, of all things, a latrine that Ajax had ordered his men to build.  In this passage Achilles shrugs in what is described as a \\"lithe, luxuriant, deeply self-loving\\" manner.  He deliberately provokes Ajax into a rage. Calchas who watched the incident thought,<br />\\"Achilles was a natural killer.  These Mycenaeans were all warlike and brutal, but Achilles was a special case, he enjoyed homicide as a leisure activity.  These last words were a deliberate provocation.  Nothing ever led anywhere, with Achilles, except back to his own pride and perfection.\\"<br />Now it is true that Achilles was probably all these things.  But in Euripides one at least gains the sense of what the man may become.<br />Unsworth's writes in an idiom that is often very modern -often startlingly so, it is quite unusual.  Rather in the tradition of Stanley Lombardo's outstanding translation of the Iliad itself.  But it works beautifully.  Here's an example also drawn from the Latrine episode:<br />`It's NOT my latrine,' The booming voice of Ajax filled the tent.  He was staring at Achilles with furious hostility.  `Good grief,' he said, `Do you think I use it myself? It's for the men, not the officers.'<br />Unsworth's style is both taut AND lyrical, a rare combination.  The ending is a bona fide surprise.  I have said little about one of the major characters - Iphigeneia herself.  Unsworth's portraits of Iphegenia and her maid are deeply nuanced and extraordinarily life-like.  An important lesson that the Greeks taught humanity (now largely forgotten) is this: If is true that our lives are fated, then it is also true that the manner in which we deal with our fate will demonstrate the stuff that we are made. Iphigeneia's decision (and the related actions of her maid) is breath-taking and principled -- awe-inspiring and heart-breaking.  Her actions shamed both the men and gods in whose clutches she found herself.ng ever led anywhere, with Achilles, except back to his own pride and perfection.\\"<br />Now it is true that Achilles was probably all these things.  But in Euripides one at least gains the sense of what the man may become.<br />Unsworth's writes in an idiom that is often very modern -often startlingly so, it is quite unusual.  Rather in the tradition of Stanley Lombardo's outstanding translation of the Iliad itself.  But it works beautifully.  Here's an example also drawn from the Latrine episode:<br />`It's NOT my latrine,' The booming voice of Ajax filled the tent.  He was staring at Achilles with furious hostility.  `Good grief,' he said, `Do you think I use it myself? It's for the men, not the officers.'<br />Unsworth's style is both taut AND lyrical, a rare combination.  The ending is a bona fide surprise.  I have said little about one of the major characters - Iphigeneia herself.  Unsworth's portraits of Iphegenia and her maid are deeply nuanced and extraordinarily life-like.  An important lesson that the Greeks taught humanity (now largely forgotten) is this: If is true that our lives are fated, then it is also true that the manner in which we deal with our fate will demonstrate the stuff that we are made. Iphigeneia's decision (and the related actions of her maid) is breath-taking and principled -- awe-inspiring and heart-breaking.  Her actions shamed both the men and gods in whose clutches she found herself.	2003-06-02
US	53039492	R305MXQHHKI9N9	0312311109	940505853	Achilles: A Novel	Books	3	52	64	N	N	An imperfectly realized vision.	I would most certainly not describe this book as a historical novel as other reviewers have.  It is a kind of short story  actually more like a sequence of episodes cast with a poetic hand.  And it is not strictly a retelling of Achilles story  Cook offers us a highly selective and even eccentric conception of Achilles. She gives us an Achilles who will be unfamiliar to many readers of the poem, for Cooks Achilles is sapped of much of the mettle and psychological consistency with which Homer endowed him.<br />If you believe like me that the Iliad is all about the education of Achilles, then you may have trouble with Cooks interpretation.  She seems to miss the entire point of the story.  And dont just take my word for this.  When Priam begs Acilles for the return of Hectors body, Cook has Achilles respond as follows:  Its Zeus wish that I give you the body and thats why youll get it.<br />If you believe this, then you have to believe that Homer wrote a story about nothing. This meeting is the crux of the Iliad.  It constitutes one of the most poignant moments in the entire corpus of western literature.  Yet here Achilles decision to return Hectors body is reduced to a reflex action dictated by a god.  In truth, Achilles returns the body (and disdains the gifts of Priam, though bizarrely Cooks has him pawing through them and picking out the softest robe) because he ALONE among the Greeks has finally come to an understanding of the cost of war, and the meaningless of trophies.  It took the death of his friend to do it (a death that he comes to see was a direct consequence of his own pride).  Achilles grew as a person -- a fact Cook seems to have missed altogether.<br />There are false notes here as well which undermine Cooks credibility with the reader.  For example, at one point she refers to Hera as Juno -- this is the Roman name for Hera.  This isnt poetic license, this is an error of the first magnitude and there are more where this came from.<br />Cook is also wilfully crude; one of the other reviewers euphemistically characterised these elements as adult. The appearance of these terms is so crude and so repugnant that it has the effect of wrenching the reader from the narrative flow. The point is that Cook perhaps wants to give her writing an edge.  Well, there are better ways.<br />However, this is not a bad book; it is filled with beautiful, poetic passages.  Such as this one:<br />Hectors feet are sure.As he runs he remembers each part of his life: the bushes and rocks of his boyhood hideoutsthe routes of his huntingthe waterfall he led Asytanax first bathing.the shallow rock pools where the women did the laundry before the war.  He remembers, his life spread out before him like a giant sheet in the sun..<br />I was very moved by this.  And you wont find anything like this in Homer.  But you know what?  You wont find it for a reason.  Have you EVER been scared?  I mean scared for your life?  Terrified that you were about to die?  I have.  I spent years rock climbing and got into some very compromising situations.  And let me tell you, in moments like these you are not dreamily recalling episodes from your past.  Every fibre of your being is striving to keep you alive.  Your higher intellectual functions shut down, your autonomic nervous functions take over, you become animalistic.  Homer knew that.  Hector had a killer bearing down on him -- Achilles was never more than a few footsteps behind him.  Hector would have probably heard his laboured breath and felt his presence.  He would have known the certainty of his approaching death.  Believe me, he wasnt thinking of women doing laundry or Asytanax first bath.<br />And so this leads to my final judgement on this book.  You may enjoy it.  You may be touched from time to time.  Impressed here and there by a particularly well turned phrase.  However, at its bottom, the problem with this book is that it is an imperfectly realised conceit.  Men, particularly men at war, simply do not act or think the way Cook imagines that they do.  But if you are a fanatic like I am, you will want this book in your collection.e problem with this book is that it is an imperfectly realised conceit.  Men, particularly men at war, simply do not act or think the way Cook imagines that they do.  But if you are a fanatic like I am, you will want this book in your collection.	2003-05-05
US	53039492	R352EEGOV58H2K	0877549125	627065254	Homer's the Iliad (Modern Critical Interpretations)	Books	2	13	16	N	N	A Poor Collection of Overly Technical essays	This is a deeply disappointing collection that I am not sure I would even recommend to the serious student of the Iliad.  And one can be forgiven for being disappointed, after all Harold Bloom is the editor.  When I was a University student in the seventies, Bloom was revered, in particular by students of the Romantic poets.  Bloom had written what was (and still is) a vital text on Shelley (Shelley's Mythmaking\\") and had followed that up with a magnificent survey of the Romantics in, \\"The Visionary Company\\".  When my interests turned to Blake, Bloom was there with Blake's Apocalypse\\".<br />And so, when later in life I developed a keen interest in the Iliad, I was overjoyed to see that Bloom had pulled together a collection of essays to help me understand this complicated yet surprisingly readable poem.<br />WRONG!  Of all the thousands of commentaries on the Iliad, Bloom somehow managed, with a notable exception or two, to pull together some of the most arcane, obtuse writings I can imagine.  Even the specialists will be challenged by some of  the subject matter here.  And the presentation?  Well, for the most part the prose is turgid, representing the worst of academic stylism.  The exception is the lucid and beautifully written excerpt from E.R. Dodds', \\"The Greeks and the Irrational.\\"  But this is to be expected, as this is justly one of the most famous and important books ever written on the subject of ancient Geek culture.  I found the rest of the essays to be overly technical and narrow in scope and compass.  If you have read Victor Davis Hanson's \\"Who Killed Homer\\", you will find most of the sins he enumerates present in this collection.<br />But the MOST disappointing part of this entire collection is the introduction itself.  In which we see Bloom at his worst - preachy, tendentious, over weaning.  He takes the opportunity to take a few pot shots at the authors represented in the collection and to advance his own, in my view eccentric, conception of the poem. You know you are in for a rough ride when from the very outset we are treated to a comparison of the Iliad with the Hebrew Bible - a comparison in which the Iliad does not come off on top.  At the end of the introduction, we read that while Homer himself is the \\"best of the poets\\", unfortunately, he lacks a \\"quality of trust in the transcendent memory of a covenant fulfilled, a lack of the sublime hope that moves the Hebrew poet Deborah.\\"  Geez, I'm sorry but, umm, who cares?  This is a bit like complaining that apples don't have the citrus acidity of oranges.<br />Clearly, Bloom had an axe to grind - and grind it he did. It is as though he was determined to make the case for the Bible's superiority to the Iliad. As an introduction to a collection of essays, Bloom's is, in a word, \\"lacking\\"!<br />So where does that leave the interested reader.  Well, it's not easy.  I can think of no good general introduction that is separately published.  That said, Bernard Knox wrote an introduction to Robert Fagles' translation of the Iliad that is almost transcendent.  It puts to poem in context, describes the central action and delves into the poem's main cultural foundations.  I would recommend that a first time reader of the Iliad equip him or herself first with this and second with Stanley's Lombardo's brilliant modern translation - oh, and stay away from this collection.em. You know you are in for a rough ride when from the very outset we are treated to a comparison of the Iliad with the Hebrew Bible - a comparison in which the Iliad does not come off on top.  At the end of the introduction, we read that while Homer himself is the \\"best of the poets\\", unfortunately, he lacks a \\"quality of trust in the transcendent memory of a covenant fulfilled, a lack of the sublime hope that moves the Hebrew poet Deborah.\\"  Geez, I'm sorry but, umm, who cares?  This is a bit like complaining that apples don't have the citrus acidity of oranges.<br />Clearly, Bloom had an axe to grind - and grind it he did. It is as though he was determined to make the case for the Bible's superiority to the Iliad. As an introduction to a collection of essays, Bloom's is, in a word, \\"lacking\\"!<br />So where does that leave the interested reader.  Well, it's not easy.  I can think of no good general introduction that is separately published.  That said, Bernard Knox wrote an introduction to Robert Fagles' translation of the Iliad that is almost transcendent.  It puts to poem in context, describes the central action and delves into the poem's main cultural foundations.  I would recommend that a first time reader of the Iliad equip him or herself first with this and second with Stanley's Lombardo's brilliant modern translation - oh, and stay away from this collection.	2003-04-19
US	53039492	ROO0RSOKH5JCV	0300087608	946010739	A Century of Violence in Soviet Russia	Books	4	61	68	N	N	A grim, vital study of the horror that was Soviet Russia	I am not sure I can possibly convey the importance of this book and how urgently it needs to be read by almost anyone with an interest in the history of the last century.  Actually, I would go further, and turn that last sentence on its ear.  This is an indispensable book for those who have little knowledge of or interest in the 20th Century.  People need to understand what went on in the Soviet Union between the years 1916 and 1989.<br />Growing up in the 60s and 70s, it was not at all uncommon, at least in Canada, for ones circle of friends to include Marxist-Leninists  particularly once you got to University.  I actually had a rather close friend who not only adopted this political philosophy, but also actively espoused the cause of Soviet Russia  to the point of making excuses for Stalin.  This made for extremely lively debates.  In retrospect, knowing what we now know about communist Russia, I rather think my friend needed at the very least a good thrashing.  For it was people like him, and the left-leaning western media, that gave succor to, and in a way legitimized, what we now know was one of the must shocking brutal, tyrannies ever to disgrace our planet.<br />The subject of the culpability of the western media, fellow travelers and communist sympathizers is covered by Richard Pipes, in Russia Under the Bolsheviks. These people have, in a very real sense, blood on their hands, and I often tremble with rage when I recall the facile and damaging lies that they propagated.  Under the noses of these gullible and willfully naïve liberal thinkers, 35 million people died, either as the result of political terror or deliberate starvation.<br />Alexander Yakovlev now reinforces the point with a harrowing, grim collection of essays, A Century of Violence in Soviet Russia.  Yakovlev was an advisor to Gorbachev and is now the head of a commission charged with analyzing and cataloging the horrors of Soviet Russia.  In my review of Pipes book (mentioned above), I had occasion to remark that in that book, Lenin came in for the thrashing that he so richly deserved.  Lenin has had it easy.  When the full horrors of the Stalinist period became known, Marxists and Socialists to a man rushed to point out that Stalin was an anomaly, that he and his regime had nothing to do with the gentle, humane, philosophical Lenin (and, in any event, one had to break eggs to make an omlette).  Some people still believe this.  Do you?  Well here is Yakovlevs trenchant, damning summing up:<br />Exponent of mass terror, violence, the dictatorship of the proletariat, class struggle and other inhuman concepts.  Organizer of fratricidal Russian civil war and concentration camps, including camps for children.  Incessant in his demands for arrests and capital punishment by bullet or rope.  Personally responsible for the deaths of millions of Russian citizens.  By every norm of international law, posthumously indicted for crimes against humanity.<br />Shockingly, Russians (as well and never-say-die communists throughout the world) continue to revere Lenin.  This horrifies Yakovlev who notes that to this day the country proliferates with monuments to Lenin and streets names after him.  Worse than this, a shockingly large segment of Russian society today believes that Stalin is in need of rehabilitation, that he did nor good than bad for Russia.  Stalin has become nothing more than a name to most people in the world.  When Saddam Hussein was compared to Stalin, when it was noted that he had actually studied Stalin, this tended to make little impression - because most of the world has forgotten.  Men like Conquest, Pipes, Figes and Yakovlev write so that we will NOT forget. Their books should be required reading, because men like Lenin and Stalin NEVER go away, they are always with us and we must be forever vigilant and on our guard that they do not take root again.book (mentioned above), I had occasion to remark that in that book, Lenin came in for the thrashing that he so richly deserved.  Lenin has had it easy.  When the full horrors of the Stalinist period became known, Marxists and Socialists to a man rushed to point out that Stalin was an anomaly, that he and his regime had nothing to do with the gentle, humane, philosophical Lenin (and, in any event, one had to break eggs to make an omlette).  Some people still believe this.  Do you?  Well here is Yakovlevs trenchant, damning summing up:<br />Exponent of mass terror, violence, the dictatorship of the proletariat, class struggle and other inhuman concepts.  Organizer of fratricidal Russian civil war and concentration camps, including camps for children.  Incessant in his demands for arrests and capital punishment by bullet or rope.  Personally responsible for the deaths of millions of Russian citizens.  By every norm of international law, posthumously indicted for crimes against humanity.<br />Shockingly, Russians (as well and never-say-die communists throughout the world) continue to revere Lenin.  This horrifies Yakovlev who notes that to this day the country proliferates with monuments to Lenin and streets names after him.  Worse than this, a shockingly large segment of Russian society today believes that Stalin is in need of rehabilitation, that he did nor good than bad for Russia.  Stalin has become nothing more than a name to most people in the world.  When Saddam Hussein was compared to Stalin, when it was noted that he had actually studied Stalin, this tended to make little impression - because most of the world has forgotten.  Men like Conquest, Pipes, Figes and Yakovlev write so that we will NOT forget. Their books should be required reading, because men like Lenin and Stalin NEVER go away, they are always with us and we must be forever vigilant and on our guard that they do not take root again.	2003-04-19
US	53039492	R5C7LP8IBWPJY	0786868767	964050438	Koba the Dread	Books	3	10	15	N	N	Not Robert Conquest, but important nonetheless	What happened to Martin Amis?  Such promise.  For my part, I parted company with Amis shortly after London Fields, a book that largely rehashed the infinitely superior Money. This was followed by Times Arrow, a one trick pony\\" if ever there was one, that I tired of after the first chapter.  After this, we were treated to Amis the Essayist.  Not content with presenting his genius to the public through his novels, Amis decided that he should adopt a high moral tone and dispense his wisdom in the form of essays, articles and books such as this.<br />I realize that if you are a fan of Amis, then I have probably lost you already.  But I hope I havent because I think this book has real value.  And if I have somehow managed to keep you reading, then please bear with me for a moment longer.<br />In writing this book, Amis has done something important.  He has a wide readership  a readership that would be unlikely to pick up a volume by Conquest.  A darling of the left, a fellow traveler of Christopher Hitchens, Amis certainly takes his loyal readers on an unexpected detour here.  Readers might at first have been surprised to discover that he had this in him.  As a result, a whole segment of society that would otherwise have been ignorant of the full extent of what went on in Stalins Russia, may have been helped to the sort of enlightening that Amis experienced when he delved into the subject.<br />And, true to form, Amis does have his own take on things.  He is largely outraged by the facile ignorance or cavalier indifference displayed by the liberal intelligentsia to what went on in Stalins Russia.  Amis was genuinely horrified.  Shaken to the roots of his humanity by what he learned when he began to study the literature on the Great Terror.  He provides many examples of this. He recounts a conversation he had with Hitchens (who I believe is his sons godfather!).  It went like this: What about the famine?' I once asked him. There wasn't a famine,' he said, smiling slightly and lowering his gaze. \\"There may have been occasional shortages....  I am surprised he didnt slug Hitchens.  Anyone who knows anything about the millions of deaths knows that there were more than a few shortages.<br />Having said all this, as some of the other reviewers have pointed out, this is a eccentric and personal volume.  If you REALLY want to understand Stalin, what you really want is Robert Conquest.  Either his book on the subject of Stalin per se (Stalin: Breaker of Nations) or his more general book, The Great Terror: A Reassessment.  Indeed, Amis makes such heavy use of secondary sources, and in particular Conquest, that I am surprised those authors have not lined up for royalties.  The Publishers Weekly review is accurate.ere wasn't a famine,' he said, smiling slightly and lowering his gaze. \\"There may have been occasional shortages....  I am surprised he didnt slug Hitchens.  Anyone who knows anything about the millions of deaths knows that there were more than a few shortages.<br />Having said all this, as some of the other reviewers have pointed out, this is a eccentric and personal volume.  If you REALLY want to understand Stalin, what you really want is Robert Conquest.  Either his book on the subject of Stalin per se (Stalin: Breaker of Nations) or his more general book, The Great Terror: A Reassessment.  Indeed, Amis makes such heavy use of secondary sources, and in particular Conquest, that I am surprised those authors have not lined up for royalties.  The Publishers Weekly review is accurate.	2003-04-19
US	53039492	R1KYTKB5F30D4S	0520035453	438481796	The World of the Citizen in Republican Rome	Books	4	12	14	N	N	We are all Roman citizens......	For the serious student of Rome, \\"The World of the Citizen in Republican Rome\\" belongs in a position of pride and prominence on the bookshelf. Eric Gruen has written of The World of the Citizen in Republican Rome: \\"it is far and away the best examination of the fabric of social and political life in the Roman Republic\\".<br />Need to know more?  Maybe not, if you are like me, what Gruen thinks is close to gospel.  But if you do?  Okay.  Here we go.<br />So much of what we read of Rome is a history of the rich, the famous, the powerful.  Yet Nicolet notes that this \\"political class\\" never numbered above FIFTEEN HUNDRED individuals at any given time.  It was Nicolet's objective, however, to \\"analyse Roman political life at the level of...civic grass-roots\\".  And Nicolet's understanding of this sphere is encyclopaedic. The only time I have encountered erudition on this scale was in Gruens \\"Last Generation of the Roman Republic\\" and in Ronald Syme's \\"The Roman Revolution\\".  In fact, this book should be read alongside, but after I think, both of these books<br />The book is, however, long.  And it is NOT exactly a stroll in the park.  It can be difficult but highly rewarding reading.  However, it is not only for the academic reader either.  It is filled with fascinating and at times surprising revelations.  For example, I never, EVER, thought I would willingly, and not under duress, read a chapter on anything to do with taxation.  Here I learned that Roman citizens were, for long periods of their history, free from direct taxation.  They considered it a badge of servitude.  What taxes they paid were intermittent and for the most part both proportionate AND progressive.  Roman taxation was  \\"civic\\", to use Nicolet's term, and not permanent.  It was not until the burdens of the civil wars and the apparatus of Augustus' military state created such extraordinary demands on the public purse that Roman finances evolved from a civic to a monarchic system.  Until then, they were a painful, intermittent necessity, regarded as a counterpart to the citizen's privileges.<br />The Romans also developed a hitherto unheard of and entirely original conception of citizenship.  It was not a dual citizenship per se, but rather a \\"citizenship on two levels...that bore within it the notion of cosmopolis.  It was a potent rival of Augustines Civitas Dei, and the ecumenism at its core was co-opted by the catholic tradition\\".  Nicolet explains how it gave to Rome the moral structure and the political robustness to survive for centuries in a roiling and troubled world.  Conquered peoples prized Roman citizenship above almost anything else; and the Romans shared citizenship in their nation freely, often enfranchising entire races or nations in one feel swoop. This was a stunning feature of the culture and in this, they were unique in history.<br />Then there is the census.  Again, who would have thought THIS could be interesting.  But it is.  I had literally no idea that the census was, with little exaggeration, the backbone of Roman society -- its ideological underpinnings skilfully balancing timocratic and aristocratic interests.  It was called \\"proportional\\", meaning that \\"each individual's rights and duties conformed, so to speak to a constant ratio.Rights and duties were relegated to the classification of citizens according to their wealth and acknowledged valour and practically nothing else.\\"<br />In fact, however, there WAS something else -- morality.  The censors operated on the principal that a bad man can not be a good citizen.  Thus, \\"the census was also a moral and political operation, the fountain of honour\\".  This proportional equality, created by the institution of the census, was regarded as a \\"factor of social cohesion\\", helping to bring about consensus within the polity.<br />As much as anything else, this book will teach you what we OWE to the Romans.  In this regard, the conclusion is worth reading by itself.<br />It is important for us to recall that the Roman juridical regime guaranteed ALL citizens equality before the law. Nicolet writes, \\"the other great collective interest [of Roman society] was freedom[and] equality before the law.  Provided this was assured, social and political inequalities were held of no account.  The status of a citizen continued to be the indispensable and sufficient guarantee of this form of freedom.  This was symbolised and guaranteed by the appeal to Caesar, which descended directly from the appeal to the people, and above all by the codification of laws.  Until the middle of the second century AD, Roman citizens, who were steadily increasing in numbers, felt equal before the law even if they shared a condition of political servitude, which on the whole they did not much mind.  This essential acquisition was eclipsed during the long centuries of the Germanic Middle Ages; but it was never lost, and has re-emerged triumphantly in the modern world.  We are all Roman citizens\\".<br />The one regret?  That this appears to be the only one of Nciolets many books to have been translated into English.important for us to recall that the Roman juridical regime guaranteed ALL citizens equality before the law. Nicolet writes, \\"the other great collective interest [of Roman society] was freedom[and] equality before the law.  Provided this was assured, social and political inequalities were held of no account.  The status of a citizen continued to be the indispensable and sufficient guarantee of this form of freedom.  This was symbolised and guaranteed by the appeal to Caesar, which descended directly from the appeal to the people, and above all by the codification of laws.  Until the middle of the second century AD, Roman citizens, who were steadily increasing in numbers, felt equal before the law even if they shared a condition of political servitude, which on the whole they did not much mind.  This essential acquisition was eclipsed during the long centuries of the Germanic Middle Ages; but it was never lost, and has re-emerged triumphantly in the modern world.  We are all Roman citizens\\".<br />The one regret?  That this appears to be the only one of Nciolets many books to have been translated into English.	2003-03-17
US	53039492	RWT2PNAZAO4IQ	0679761845	463784939	Russia Under the Bolshevik Regime	Books	4	51	64	N	N	Almost flawless.	This is an extraordinary book. It is an extremely important companion to Conquest's \\"The Great Terror\\", for it sets the table.  And what a feast it is.  Many of the people reading this will have grown up like I did in a cold war household.  In those days, in Canada anyway, I actually had friends who ardently espoused communism.  Who extolled Lenin and even Stalin.  Who saw the western democracies as weak, rotten to the core and on their last legs.  We all knew people like that.<br />It was the western media, more than anything else that we had to thank for that.  It was dominated by leftists, many of them (as hard as this is the believe) actually in the pay of, or beholden to, Russia.  Those who weren't were hopelessly and wilfully blind.  For me, one of the greatest mysteries of the 20th Century was how so many people came to be so thoroughly duped by a murderous gang of thugs who had hijacked the Russian people and sought to take over the world.  How was it possible?  Pipes tells this story.<br />And he pulls no punches.  He comes from the Thucydidean school of  history.  He is absolutely unafraid to pass judgement.  The first part of the book covers the Russian Civil war from 1918 - 1920.  This strange, complex struggle still has yet to have a book length study devoted to it.  But Pipes provides the reader with more than enough.<br />Like Conquest, Pipes is at pains to point out that there was nothing at all organic about the Russian Revolution. It was more of a coup d'etat, stage managed by a tiny cadre of Bolsheviks who had the army on their side. The workers and the peasants, and this is CRUCIAL for our understanding of what happened, had literally NOTHING to do with it.<br />Once Lenin and his gang were in control (and I use the term \\"gang\\" advisedly because they behaved and operated very like a criminal gang), they turned their attention to the rest of the world.  They actually believed that their \\"revolution\\" was to be followed by a world revolution - which they would supervise. Pipes chapter entitled \\"Communism for Export\\" will have you shaking your head in disbelief.<br />The Russians knew they couldn't control what was written about them unless they controlled WHO did the writing.  They did this by refusing the major press agencies access to Russia until Moscow had approved the journalist.  The Sunday Times famously stood up to this bullying for decades.  Not the New York Times.  They sent a pre-approved journalist by the name of Walter Duranty.  Ironically, Duranty was an out spoken anti-Communist.  But he quickly realised that if he wrote what the Russians wanted, he would have access to inside information - with that would come influence and fame.  Better yet for Duranty, he very early on identified Stalin as Lenin's likely successor (at a time which  this was not at ALL obvious).  He began to eulogise Stalin.  He praised collectivisation, denied the Ukrainian famine - and resorted to lie upon lie upon lie.  Such was the credulity of the western public and press that he was rewarded for his infamy with the Pulitzer Prize.<br />He was not alone.  Muggeridge reports that all the correspondents voluntarily took their wire stories to the censors to be censored.  John Reed, virtually canonised  by the movie Reds (a movie which is in and of itself largely a shocking lie), was nothing more than a fellow-traveller blind to every excess of the Bolsheviks.  The portrait of him in these pages will have your blood boiling.  Randolph Hearst in a signed editorial in 1918 described Lenin's regime as the \\"truest democracy in Europe.\\"<br />The point needs to be made bluntly.  All of these journalists and fellow travellers have blood on their hands.  Had the world stood up to first Lenin and later Stalin, millions, COUNTLESS millions could have been saved.<br />I have so little room to extol this book.  I can only hope that my enthusiasm will in some way prove infectious and draw you to read it. I have focused on one aspect of this book. There is so much more.  For example.  Pipes makes persuasive case that Communism, Fascism and National Socialism have common roots.  That Russian communism was eerily similar to Tsarism (only the Tsarists were more compassionate!)<br />Very importantly, Lenin comes in for the thrashing that he has so richly deserved all these long years.  This zealot has escaped scrutiny for decades - largely because what came after him was so nightmarish.  People for some reason like to think of Lenin as a benign philosopher - idealistic and pure - whose dreams were shattered by the evil that was to follow.  Nothing, and I mean NOTHING could be farther from the truth.  He was a murderer, a mass murderer, just like Stalin.  The only difference was one of scale. The fact was that Lenin hated democracy - stamped it out - built a totalitarian dictatorship - and paved the way for one of the greatest monsters of all time.  And it is small solace to know that Lenin and his gang of thugs reaped what they sowed.  That years later Stalin would literally exterminate them with their own weapons.<br />Read this Book.  It is one of the most important books about the 20th Century you will ever read - and it is filled with lessons that we must take to heart.  We CAN learn from history.  History teaches us to see patterns - it helps us to avoid repeating the mistakes of the past.this book. There is so much more.  For example.  Pipes makes persuasive case that Communism, Fascism and National Socialism have common roots.   That Russian communism was eerily similar to Tsarism (only the Tsarists were more compassionate!) <br />Very importantly, Lenin comes in for the thrashing that he has so richly deserved all these long years.  This zealot has escaped scrutiny for decades - largely because what came after him was so nightmarish.  People for some reason like to think of Lenin as a benign philosopher - idealistic and pure - whose dreams were shattered by the evil that was to follow.   Nothing, and I mean NOTHING could be farther from the truth.  He was a murderer, a mass murderer, just like Stalin.  The only difference was one of scale. The fact was that Lenin hated democracy - stamped it out - built a totalitarian dictatorship - and paved the way for one of the greatest monsters of all time.  And it is small solace to know that Lenin and his gang of thugs reaped what they sowed.  That years later Stalin would literally exterminate them with their own weapons.<br />Read this Book.  It is one of the most important books about the 20th Century you will ever read - and it is filled with lessons that we must take to heart.  We CAN learn from history.  History teaches us to see patterns - it helps us to avoid repeating the mistakes of the past.	2003-02-21
US	53039492	R33ZSYTSP9D707	0195157958	601055907	Reverence: Renewing a Forgotten Virtue	Books	1	67	104	N	N	Caveat Emptor	I feel compelled to issue a warning here.  This is by no means the &quot;treasure&quot; that other reviewers are suggesting that it is.  I bought it largely on the strength of Woodruff's excellent record as a translator.  I was expecting something special.  I didn't get it.  Nor will any discerning reader.<br />What you get here is a rather trite self-help book.  Woodruff himself notes that the idea for the book began as an article and ended up as a book.  Well, I'm sorry, it should have stayed as an article.  The introduction is, in and of itself, intriguing.  It is worth reading, and Woodruff clearly has hit on something in saying that reverence is a forgotten virtue.  But it really only takes ten pages to say that.  Do we need a 200 page book on the subject?<br />It was with dismay that I read on. Page after repetitive page.  Paragraph heaped upon paragraph to explain what could be explained in a sentence or two. The book itself is presented in a pocket book format - very self-helpish.  The chapters are broken down into little digestible bits with handy headings - also very self helpish. The headings themselves are cutsey , \\"Dad Slugs the Umpire\\".  There is, for pete's sake a section entitled, \\"Why go to a Meeting\\".<br />This book has all the hallmarks of something cooked up and rushed to take its place in the self help market.  Which may not be entirely Woodruff's fault - lord knows Oxford Press would probably love to have a best-selling little self help book.  But as I read this book (and I have a background in classics as a glance at my other reviews will tell you) I grew annoyed and pevish, it was actually a waste of my time.  And there is precious enough time to read as it is.  I was STRONGLY reminded of Victor Davis Hanson's admonition to teachers of the classics -teach more write less.  I kept asking myself - why did this book need to be written?<br />In other reviews I have railed against the tendency of reviewers to accord 5 stars to every book they like.  To me, a work of genius is a five star book.  Excellent books are 4 star books.  There is no way on god's green earth that this is a work of genius deserving of the five star reviews it is receiving.<br />What I do feel compelled to draw attention to is that there are two reviews here from reviewers in Texas -- Woodruff teaches in Texas.  Is this a co-incidence?  In each case the reviewers have reviewed one and only one book - one reviewer with 52 helpful votes does not even have an \\"about me section.\\"  I find that odd.  Both review have received an extraordinary number of \\"helpful votes\\".  Even odder. There is also a review from the Publisher -- something I thought was not allowed.  I am afraid that all of this taken together paints a suspicious picture.  I realise that the rules also call for us not to comment on other reviews -- as rule I have religiously followed.  I make an exception in this one case.  Caveat Emptor..  To me, a work of genius is a five star book.  Excellent books are 4 star books.  There is no way on god's green earth that this is a work of genius deserving of the five star reviews it is receiving.<br />What I do feel compelled to draw attention to is that there are two reviews here from reviewers in Texas -- Woodruff teaches in Texas.  Is this a co-incidence?  In each case the reviewers have reviewed one and only one book - one reviewer with 52 helpful votes does not even have an \\"about me section.\\"   I find that odd.  Both review have received an extraordinary number of \\"helpful votes\\".  Even odder. There is also a review from the Publisher -- something I thought was not allowed.  I am afraid that all of this taken together paints a suspicious picture.  I realise that the rules also call for us not to comment on other reviews -- as rule I have religiously followed.  I make an exception in this one case.  Caveat Emptor.	2003-02-20
US	53039492	RMVS38D101T9C	1893554260	746580538	Who Killed Homer: The Demise of Classical Education and the Recovery of Greek Wisdom	Books	4	189	195	N	N	You will want to read the Iliad again.....	It may seem that another readers review of this book is superfluous.  The battle lines are clearly drawn.  You either hate Hanson or you love him.  When I say that I love him, I am simply saving those who hate him the trouble of reading further.<br />But for those of you who are new to the debate, there may be some value in reading on.  Victor Davis Hanson emerged on the scene in the early 1980s with a wonderful little book called The Western Way of War: Infantry Battle in Classical Greece.  This readable, engaging tome was taken up by, among others, John Keegan who embraced some of the ideas and began to publicise them.<br />Who Killed Homer emerged much later.  It is a brilliant polemic  a fact that is often missed by the critics who belabour Hanson with the charge of being too controversial  I think that was rather the point.  Hanson wrote in despair and anger.  He despaired of the state of education in our colleges and universities.  And he has written an impassioned, polemical diatribe on the subject.  As Stephen Ozment remarked, this is a book for anyone who has loved or hated a college or university.<br />Like Bernard Knox who as a young man lashed out at the excessive technicality of classical studies (after reading an extended study in a classical journal entitled The Carrot in Ancient Greece), Hanson is incensed at the dearth of true learning at universities.  He would have us go back to general principals.  He would have professors stop publishing and start TEACHING.<br />First and foremost, Hanson makes the case for Greek civilisation. However we get our Greek, he would say, we must get it.  Western Culture, he says, is largely founded on Greek ideas, filtered through intervening civilisations and systems of thought.  I despair of the school curriculum I see these days.  My young nephews are offered, through something called social studies, the fleeting opportunity in Grade 4 and 5 to learn about ancient cultures.  The problem is that it is left to the teacher to decide WHICH cultures they study.  It is entirely possible for students in Ontario to go through school without EVER studying Greek or Roman history.  And whatever benefits may be derived from the study of meso-american culture or Chinese culture, they pale beside the importance of those which can be obtained through a study of the Greeks.  For the study of other cultures does not speak to the core values of western civilisation.  The values which, transmitted down through the centuries to us from the Greeks, have made our culture (for the time being) the dominant culture in the world.<br />Here is Hanson on the subject: Yet as magnificent and accessible as the Odyssey is, the Iliad is the greater poem, the more difficult and important challenge to teachers of Greek, who, if they be teachers or Greek at all, must teach the Iliad and teach it frequently.  Most subsequent Greek ideas  learning comes through pain, reason is checked by fate, men are social creatures, the truth only emerges through dissent and open criticism, human life is tragically short and therefore comes with obligations, characters is a matter of matching words with deeds, the most dangerous animal is the natural beast within us, religion is separate from and subordinate to political authority, private property should be immune from government coercion, even aristocratic leaders ignore the will of the assembly at their peril  start with Homer, especially the Iliad, but never again are they presented so honestly, and without either apology or elaboration.  And these Greek values, he maintains were UNIQUE in the world.  Democracy, free speech, separation of church and state, a civilian army  these idea (and others) ALL began in Greece and nowhere else.  And yet the general public in the west knows less about itss origins that EVER before.<br />The dust jacket notes, the formal study of the origins of Western Culture is disappearingfrom American life at precisely the time when it is most needed to explain, guide and warn the public about both the wonders and dangers of their own culture.<br />What you will come away with from this book, if you have an open mind at all, is either a new (or perhaps renewed) appreciation for Greek culture.  You will want to read the Iliad again and you will want your children to read it.from American life at precisely the time when it is most needed to explain, guide and warn the public about both the wonders and dangers of their own culture.<br />What you will come away with from this book, if you have an open mind at all, is either a new (or perhaps renewed) appreciation for Greek culture.  You will want to read the Iliad again and you will want your children to read it.	2002-12-20
US	53039492	RAL6GCZ823X37	0300074239	189675922	Oedipus at Thebes: Sophocles' Tragic Hero and His Time	Books	5	24	24	N	N	This is a true tour de force.	The superlative reviews from publications as disparate as the New York Times, the New Yorker and Hellenic World (!)should be sufficient inducement to convince anyone with the least interest in Sophocles and \\"Oedipus Tyrannus\\" to buy this book.<br />Bernard Knox is perhaps the greatest living classicist and he may just be one of the greatest of all time.  He writes with an ease and lucidity that renders the most difficult subject available to the lay reader.  He has an uncanny facility to sum up in a paragraph a subject that has occupied him for twenty or thirty pages.  Indeed one of the delights of this book is that at the end of each section there appears a wonderfully pithy summation.<br />When this book was first published it (surprisingly) received immediate and positive reviews from the New York Times and the New Yorker.  But it was almost universally ignored by the classical community who were perhaps annoyed at the twitting they received in Knox's introduction.  Dismayed by the appearance of an article entitled \\"The Carrot in Classical Antiquity\\", Knox had lashed out at the \\"excessive technicality\\" of his colleagues.  This will remind many of us of Victor Davis Hanson's brilliantly polemical attack on the classical establishment in \\"Who Killed Homer\\".<br />Time, however, was on Knox' side and he went, on, as I said, to become a giant in his field.  In 1998, \\"Oedipus at Thebes\\" was republished for a new and grateful generation of students.<br />This is a true tour de force.  Knox took as his starting point a statement made by Walter Headlam.  Headlam had claimed that \\"when embarking on the elucidation of a Greek text, the scholar should first learn the text by heart and the read the whole of Greek literature looking for parallel passages.\\"  Sounds almost preposterous. Right?  Well Knox actually did this.  The result is a reading of \\"Oedipus Tyrannus\\" that is not only breath-taking in its magisterial sweep, but which, as far as I am concerned offers the first coherent explanation of what the play is about (but see also Charles Segal's sensitive reading - \\"Tragic Heroism and the Limits of Knowledge\\"). Knox has lovingly burnished Sophocles somewhat tarnished reputation and has ensured that Oedipus Tyrannus takes its place in the pantheon of the greatest works of literature.<br />But Knox is also careful to point out the relevance of the play for modern readers -- yet another reminder (and it is despairing that we need them) that the classics should be taught in our schools and read by all of us.  Here is Knox on the subject: \\"A play, however, which suggests that, for all its great achievements, human ingenuity may be fatally flawed, does not seem irrelevant for an age that lives in dread of atomic and biological warfare, not to mention the nightmare possibilities offered by the latest developments in genetics.\\"<br />The reason I read this little book is that I had started to read Sophocles' plays in the Chicago collection, \\"The Complete Greek Tragedies\\", edited by Grene and Lattimore.  I became immediately bogged down in \\"Oedipus Tyrannus\\" and I began to suspect he had more to do with the translation than anything else.<br />The dust jacket of this collection contains superlatives about Grene's translations.  We are gushingly told at one point that the Greekless reader needs \\"no other translation.\\"  Well allow me to politely differ. As I read Knox's book, using it as a tool to annotate Grene's translation, I came to see that time and again Grene had, for what could only be poetic purposes, obscured the true meaning of the text. In so doing he presents a version of the play that is VERY far from what Sophocles must have intended.<br />So, for those of you about to embark at University (or at home) on a study of Sophocles let me suggest two things.  1.  Buy Knox and read him FIRST.  2. Buy Fagles' translation of Sophocles and not Grene (it is anything but unpoetic as has been suggested elsewhere).  You won't be disappointed.I think you will emerge with far more respect for Sophocles and Greek society in general.I think you will emerge with far more respect for Sophocles and Greek society in general.	2002-12-06
US	53039492	R1AKQPHI2ZOJNG	0688072526	868609917	Duel of Eagles: The Mexican and U.S. Fight for the Alamo	Books	5	3	16	N	N	A brilliant and much needed reassessment.	I first encountered the writing of Jeff Long about ten years ago.  I am a climbing enthusiast and I read practically any mountaineering book I can get my hands on.  Jeff had written a corker, \\"The Ascent\\", as well as the book that formed the basis of the movie Cliffhanger, \\"Angels of Light\\".<br />Imagine my surprise and pleasure, then, when browsing in an Austin Texas bookshop to find that this self-same writer of mountain lore was also the author of a couple of books on Texas history.  The first, \\"Duel of Eagles\\" was written in 1990.  The second, \\"Empire of Bones\\", was written as a follow up and covers the events leading up to the massacre that was the Battle of San Jacinto.<br />\\"Duel of Eagles\\" concerns itself with the Mexican-American fight for the Alamo in particular, but also Texas, more generally.  It will not be on the recommended reading list of those who treasure the largely fictional accounts of \\"historical giants\\" as David Crockett, Sam Houston or William Travis.<br />It exposes an uncomfortable fact from the history of the United States.  And that is that Texas was by and large stolen from Mexico.  And it was stolen by a rag tag band of slavers, gun runners and petty criminals (many of whom acted with shocking depravity and cruelty) operating with the open encouragement of the American government.  Say what you will about Mexico of the day, it had a constitution, it had a duly constituted government and it was a sovereign power.  That didn't stop Andrew Jackson.<br />But in case you think this is a piece of pro-Mexican propaganda, guess again.  Long is as harsh in his treatment of the Mexicans as he is of the Americans.  The point here being that he is not afraid to tell the unvarnished truth.  For too long Americans, and the rest of the world, have laboured under the impression that the Mexicans were the aggressors.  They were not.  But just because they were responding to a hostile attempt to steal a huge chunk of their land, does not mean they were any better than the people who were trying to steal their land from them (though the Mexicans had, at that point, abolished slavery - this was one of the grievances that the pro-slavery Texans harboured against the Mexican government).<br />Long's book is incisively written.  He went straight to the primary sources -- journals, letters, articles, government documents and newsletters.  The story that emerges is not pretty and is not flattering to the American government or people of the day.<br />For almost the first time Long tells the Mexican side of the story.  For those of you familiar with the movie version of the Battle for the Alamo, it may come as a shock to know that the battle was over within 45 minutes.  That Santa Anna brushed aside the token and futile resistance of the militia inside.  That far from the glorious and prolonged last stand depicted in the movies, it was a short, sharp and nasty melee.  Virtually no  Mexican soldiers died at the hands of the Americans.  Hardly the American Rorke's Drift.<br />It is passingly strange that two of the most prominent incidents in American History that are cited for their heroic qualities are in fact largely devoid of any of the heroism with which they have been imbued by succeeding generations of hagiographers anxious to burnish the reputations of men who were in the best light charlatans and  boors.  These two incidents are the Alamo and the Last Stand at Little Big Horn.  This is not to say that the soldiers who fought and died in those struggles did not exhibit great personal courage.  What I do mean to say is that they fought for causes that were tinged if not polluted by course and venal motives.<br />This book is a page turner.  It is a necessary anti-dote to the propaganda that disguises itself as the history of the founding of the State of Texas.ny better than the people who were trying to steal their land from them (though the Mexicans had, at that point, abolished slavery - this was one of the grievances that the pro-slavery Texans harboured against the Mexican government).<br />Long's book is incisively written.  He went straight to the primary sources -- journals, letters, articles, government documents and newsletters.  The story that emerges is not pretty and is not flattering to the American government or people of the day.<br />For almost the first time Long tells the Mexican side of the story.  For those of you familiar with the movie version of the Battle for the Alamo, it may come as a shock to know that the battle was over within 45 minutes.  That Santa Anna brushed aside the token and futile resistance of the militia inside.  That far from the glorious and prolonged last stand depicted in the movies, it was a short, sharp and nasty melee.  Virtually no  Mexican soldiers died at the hands of the Americans.  Hardly the American Rorke's Drift.<br />It is passingly strange that two of the most prominent incidents in American History that are cited for their heroic qualities are in fact largely devoid of any of the heroism with which they have been imbued by succeeding generations of hagiographers anxious to burnish the reputations of men who were in the best light charlatans and  boors.  These two incidents are the Alamo and the Last Stand at Little Big Horn.  This is not to say that the soldiers who fought and died in those struggles did not exhibit great personal courage.  What I do mean to say is that they fought for causes that were tinged if not polluted by course and venal motives.<br />This book is a page turner.  It is a necessary anti-dote to the propaganda that disguises itself as the history of the founding of the State of Texas.	2002-12-04
US	53039492	R3O6B0AOJ5G32G	0195071328	782616429	The Great Terror: A Reassessment	Books	4	240	263	N	N	"Plus ca change plus la meme chose"	I happened to mention to a few colleagues the other day that I was reading Robert Conquest's \\"The Great Terror\\". This drew blank looks. I amplified somewhat, referencing Stalin, Yeshov, Molotov. More blank looks.<br />I grew up in a cold war household. My father was a something of a rarity, he was a right wing journalist who travelled widely in Russia bringing back a story which, in the 60s and 70s, was largely ignored by the media and everyone else. He knew then what we all know now, that Russian communism was rotten to the core and was a house of cards teetering on abject collapse. Alas, but that house took decades to come down and so condemned a further generation or two to lives of quiet and unrelieved desperation and hopelessness.<br />What does our society know of this? A society that, in the case of America, can be convulsed with paroxysms of despair when a few thousand people died in a single tragic incident -- genuinely convinced that something without precedent has happened. The most common formulation we hear of this, is the common reference to September 11th as \\"the day our world changed\\". For heaven's sake -- there is now a Jenny Craig television advertisement in which a formerly fat person testifies that September 11th changed her world such that she decided to lose wait. Ye Gods.<br />But what exactly is it that changed? History, as my high school history teacher used to say, tailgates. Conquest tells us that Stalin and Molotov, during a \\"typical day at the office\\", would sign liquidation orders for THOUSANDS of innocent people by simply putting their signatures together with the word \\"liquidate\\" at the bottom of a sheaf of papers that contained the names. And then they would head for the cinema, a solid day's work done. All that appears to have changed is that moderns have forgotten the nightmares of yesterday. Each fresh outrage is treated as something unique, something personal, something without precedent. \\"The Great Terror\\" is an effective antidote to this type of thinking.<br />\\"The Great Terror\\" is a book that was available in the late sixties. It was, like my father, largely ignored. I had school chums who were Marxists. Teachers as well. They either denied the facts or more often, accepted what had happened on the principle that it was necessary to \\"break a few eggs to make an omelette\\". And so the regime which was to be responsible for murdering tens of millions of its own citizens, on a scale and in a cold blooded manner that rivals and even surpasses the more famous Hitlerian Holocaust, is ignored or forgotten.<br />In 1990, communism collapsed. My father, am embittered old cold warrior by then, took little pleasure from having been proven right. Conquest, however, took the opportunity to revise and expand his monumental book. Virtually everything he had written about was confirmed by the glasnost revelations - as he takes pains to demonstrate.<br />It is true that many of those who died in the execution cellars or the death camps deserved their fate. But the vast majority were innocent wives children, peasants teachers workers and writers. It is estimated that \\"every other family in the USSR had one of its members in jail\\". Stalin's purges gave rise to the unthinkable. A slave labour economy. Want to know why they beat us to space or how they got the Bomb so quickly? Well, among other things, they stole virtually all of our secrets and the had slave labour. On the theft of the West's secrets another must read is David Holloway's \\"Stalin and the Bomb: The Soviet Union and Atomic Energy 1939-1956\\".<br />Conquest writes quite well - he is also an accomplished poet. But the book is also something of a catalogue of horrors and he writes in what is at times a dismayingly dispassionate manner. He is somewhat relentless. As fact piles upon fact, outrage upon outrage we are led to say with each turn of the page, \\"Dear God in heaven, what fresh hell is this\\". But the horror is NOT lost on Conquest and he stands, almost alone, as our witness to those terrible times. If not in the pages of this book, then where will we learn the names of those who perished so many years ago. Virtually no one under the age of 40 really understands what went on.<br />Conquest's book needs to be read by all of us. And in particular those who think that the suicide attack on the WTC was something new; an event that \\"changed our world\\". Because it wasn't. ...ands, almost alone, as our witness to those terrible times. If not in the pages of this book, then where will we learn the names of those who perished so many years ago. Virtually no one under the age of 40 really understands what went on.<br />Conquest's book needs to be read by all of us. And in particular those who think that the suicide attack on the WTC was something new; an event that \\"changed our world\\". Because it wasn't. ...	2002-10-28
US	53039492	R14M4F6RZE2LDU	0700611460	523851535	Stopped at Stalingrad: The Luftwaffe and Hitler's Defeat in the East, 1942-1943 (Modern War Studies(Paper))	Books	4	124	125	N	N	A genuine pleasure to read and packed with surprises.	\\"Stopped at Stalingrad\\" is one of those genuine surprises.  Just when you think you have read everything you need to read or want to read about a given subject, along comes a book that forever alters your view of that subject.<br />This book's principle focus is on the Luftwaffe's role on the Eastern Front.  It may, indeed, be the only book length treatment of the subject. Joel Hayward demonstrates with great care that the German's use of air power as a tactical, and not strategic, weapon in close support of ground forces was perhaps THE key factor in the German army's early successes in the East. Patton and the Allied Generals could only DREAM of tactical air-ground support on this level. Writes Hayward, \\"The Luftwaffe, together with the army meticulously co-ordinated their operations and created joint \\"Schwerpunkte\\"(points of main efforts).\\"  I may be demonstrating my own woeful lack of knowledge, but this is the first time in all my reading about the German war effort that I encountered a discussion of the critical doctrine of Schwerpunkte.<br />But one of this book's best offerings, comes at the very beginning where Hayward outlines in detail the crucial role that oil, or the lack thereof, played in the entire German war effort.  From the outset, the German's were running at a critical deficit. And even with the Rumanian oil fields running at full capacity, the German's were in terrible trouble.  And every time they absorbed a new chunk of territory, their situation became all the more desperate.<br />So great was Germany's reliance upon the Rumanian oil fields that Hitler became obsessed with the potential for Russian bombers to turn them in to what he called, \\"an expanse of smoking debris.\\"  The fear proved, of course groundless, the Russians were never able to mount an effective long-range bomber command.  But this fear led to a costly, Quixotic \\"cleansing of the Crimea\\" -- the so-called \\"Operation Bustard Hunt\\".<br />When the German's launched Operation Barbarossa, their requirements for oil became critical.  And this chronic problem led Hitler to focus on the oil fields of the Caucasus.  Indeed from this point on much of the German strategic war effort was geared towards securing a reliable oil supply (or developing alternatives).<br />The effort to reach the Caucasus proved, in many respects, to be Germany's undoing.  And it was a fruitless effort to begin with.  It assumed that: (A) they could reach the fields at all; (B) that if they reached them the oil fields were not so badly sabotaged that they could be put into production in time to make a difference; and (c) the oil supply once secured could be actually brought back to German over a SINGLE rail line of varying gauges that crossed thousands of miles of terrain open to sabotage and air attack.  But Hitler was blind to all of this.<br />Hayward writes with great passion and precision.  At times one feels a little overwhelmed by details.  But his portraits of  the individual German pilots and commanders, as well of the shocking conditions under which they fought and died, is truly memorable.<br />This is a book that is not only for the specialist.  Anyone with an interest in the Second World War needs to read this book.  It makes a brilliant companion to Antony Beevor's book, \\"Stalingrad\\".rbarossa, their requirements for oil became critical.  And this chronic problem led Hitler to focus on the oil fields of the Caucasus.  Indeed from this point on much of the German strategic war effort was geared towards securing a reliable oil supply (or developing alternatives).<br />The effort to reach the Caucasus proved, in many respects, to be Germany's undoing.  And it was a fruitless effort to begin with.  It assumed that: (A) they could reach the fields at all; (B) that if they reached them the oil fields were not so badly sabotaged that they could be put into production in time to make a difference; and (c) the oil supply once secured could be actually brought back to German over a SINGLE rail line of varying gauges that crossed thousands of miles of terrain open to sabotage and air attack.  But Hitler was blind to all of this.<br />Hayward writes with great passion and precision.  At times one feels a little overwhelmed by details.  But his portraits of  the individual German pilots and commanders, as well of the shocking conditions under which they fought and died, is truly memorable.<br />This is a book that is not only for the specialist.  Anyone with an interest in the Second World War needs to read this book.  It makes a brilliant companion to Antony Beevor's book, \\"Stalingrad\\".	2002-10-16
US	53039492	R3BW0TNQ0WXMHO	0060956399	723179563	The White Nile	Books	2	29	54	N	N	Danger -- Dragons be here!!	Alan Moorehead's \\"The White Nile\\" promises much but delivers very little. Any person with a background in the history of Africa will come away disappointed.  Judging from the love affair that most readers appear to have with this book, this review of mine is not likely to be popular.<br />The White Nile is a stylish but relatively superficial overview of the subject that does not challenge any of the conventional history. If that is all it was, I might ordinarily have recommended it to the general reader. It is well written and Moorehead has a wonderful narrative sense.  However, I will say that Moore writes in a slightly anachronistic style that I associate more with the 1800s than the 1960s when he wrote his book.<br />But I simply cannot recommend it even to the general reader.  This is a deeply flawed book. And here's one reason why -- Moorehead uncritically accepts his source's versions of the events that transpired during their voyages of exploration.<br /> Example:<br />\\"Returning to her hut one day Speke found himself involved in an orgy which ended in the Queen Mother and all of her attendants drinking like swine on all fours from a trough of beer\\".<br /><br />Another:<br />\\"Nothing would keep Mutesa away from his new toys after this. One fine day he would march around his capital, gun in hand, his wives, pages, and courtiers following and a band playing; and if by luck he managed to hit a vulture on a tree he would run forward to the fallen victim crying out \\"woh, woh, woh\\" in infantile excitement\\".<br />Now I do not conceive myself to be a politically correct person. But I find those passages offensive in the extreme (and there are DOZENS of them). Notice that he is not quoting. It is MOOREHEAD who describes the Africans as swinish and infantile.  I am quite aware that these incidents appear in Speke's journals. But Speke, like so many of his ilk, had a thinly disguised contempt for black Africans. And I am not even entirely certain that everything Speke wrote can be taken at face value. These explorers were writing for a mass audience that loved to be titillated and I simply can not credit Speke or any of the others with high standards of journalistic accuracy.  But Moorehead's repeats these at times utterly preposterous stories with a credulity that strains the bounds of reason -- even when there is ample evidence to refute them.<br />There is a damning example of this.  Moorehead reprints Speke's lavish and detailed allegations relating to the savagery of Mutesa's rule in Buganda. He seems to revel in it. But when Stanley (for all his flaws an entirely MORE credible witness than some of his contemporaries) visited Buganda some years later he found absolutely no evidence whatsoever of this type of behaviour. Stanley himself declared that we was unable to reconcile Speke's description of Mutesa with the man he met.  Instead of concluding that Speke made it up - as we surely must - Moorehead concludes that Mutesa's \\"nineteen years on the throne had done a great deal to polish his natural talents as a politician\\".  Of COURSE.  That's it!  Speke's juvenile butcher had simply grown up - don't all the naughty little despots. Observations such as this are simply too facile for words and it undermines the credibility of his entire book.<br />And that is not all. Much of the controversy about whether Victoria Nyanza was the source of the Nile turned upon geophysical nuances -- altitudes, volumes of water and so forth. Burton, for example, was prepared to refute Speke's estimate of the size of Victoria by calculating exactly how far Speke could have seen from his 100-foot high vantage point. Simple trigonometry would reveal that Speke could not have seen as far as he claimed to have. Key details such as this are completely ignored.<br />Elsewhere he remarks, \\"the Ruisizi flows southward into Lake Tanganyika, which in any case is only 2,535 feet above sea level and therefor too low to be the origin of the Nile\\". This is a important fact and yet Moorehead offers absolutely no explanation for this remark (clearly gleaned from another source).<br />Moorehead's simplistic and uncritical appreciation of Gordon (who he describes as \\"evoking an instant sense of gallantry and adventure\\") can not pass without comment. Moorehead remarks with extraordinary naïvet&eacute; that it \\"is pleasant to know the he (Gordon) followed Baker to Fatiko\\". Pleasant for Moorehead maybe, not so pleasant for the Africans who needlessly died at Gordon's hands as he fought his private war in Africa.  Recent biographies of this complex, brutal, bigoted, religious zealot are a required antidote to this remarkable twaddle.<br />The maps are deplorably small - when one considers that much of the joy of reading a book such as this turns on our ability to trace the explorer's footsteps.<br />So is this book to be recommended for ANYONE?  NO. It will irritate the knowledgeable student of Africa and seriously misinform the uninitiated.portant fact and yet Moorehead offers absolutely no explanation for this remark (clearly gleaned from another source).<br />Moorehead's simplistic and uncritical appreciation of Gordon (who he describes as \\"evoking an instant sense of gallantry and adventure\\") can not pass without comment. Moorehead remarks with extraordinary naïvet&eacute; that it \\"is pleasant to know the he (Gordon) followed Baker to Fatiko\\". Pleasant for Moorehead maybe, not so pleasant for the Africans who needlessly died at Gordon's hands as he fought his private war in Africa.  Recent biographies of this complex, brutal, bigoted, religious zealot are a required antidote to this remarkable twaddle.<br />The maps are deplorably small - when one considers that much of the joy of reading a book such as this turns on our ability to trace the explorer's footsteps.<br />So is this book to be recommended for ANYONE?  NO. It will irritate the knowledgeable student of Africa and seriously misinform the uninitiated.	2002-10-10
US	53039492	RBF65G8E0P982	0375507469	155280014	Cicero: The Life and Times of Rome's Greatest Politician	Books	3	112	139	N	N	NOT the most important or best biography of Cicero	It is not my practise to review books for which I have little taste.  There are cases where I make exceptions, particularly where I notice that there is an overwhelming tsunami of opinion that tends in the opposite direction to my views.  I feel suich a situation requires some balance.  Virtually every reviewer of this book has praised it to the skies as if it were the most important book to emerge on Cicero in recent memory.<br />Let me at the outset state that the best recent biography of Cicero is NOT this one.  It is Elizabeth Rawson's \\"Cicero: A Portrait\\".  It is not as lavishly produced, but its pedigree and credentials are infinitely superior to Everritt's rather disappointing (though lengthy) effort.  And it is every bit as readable - and in fact is more succinct and to the point.<br />In fact this book is NOT the most important or best biography of our times.  It is rather business-like and pedestrian.  Serious students of the period and specialists should not reach for this book in the expectation of something ground-breaking.  It is anything but that.  It is a decent, well-written account (by a non-specialist) of one of the most famous and influential figures in all of history.  The causal reader will enjoy it (as the other reviewers suggest) but they would profit more from an acquaintance with Rawson's book, which I have reviewed as well.<br />Everritt's book is filled significant mistakes in the Latin .  And Everritt has adopted a policy that is dangerous for the non-specialist - he ignores the modern writers and goes back to the \\"ancient-sources\\".  As a result he is at their mercy.  As Mary Beard has remarked, \\"the result, almost inevitably, is a patchwork of ancient texts, sewn together with a thread of common sense, guesswork and sheer fantasy\\".<br />This book is also what Everritt terms, a \\"rehabilitation\\". Whether Cicero is or isn't due for such a thing one may debate.  As I fall clearly in the \\"pro-Ciceronian\\" camp, it was heartening to read a thorough-going account rendered by a friend as opposed to a foe.  But for those who know these issues and the history, we are ultimately left wishing for so much more.<br />As Mary Beard wrote, \\"What we have been waiting for is not another 'straight' biography of Cicero; there are more than enough of those. Much more to the point would be a biographical account that tried to explore the way his life-story has been constructed and reconstructed over the last two thousand years; how we have learned to read Cicero through Jonson, Voltaire, Ibsen and the rest; what kind of investment we still have, and why, in a thundering conservative of the first century BC and his catchy oratorical slogans. Why, in short, is Cicero still around in the 21st century? And on whose terms? Quo usque tandem?\\"<br />Marcus Junius Brutus is the subject of a thoroughly charming biography of this kind -- \\"The Noblest Roman\\", by M.L. Clarke.  Out of print but readily available through the used book shops.  You can read my review of it.  Surprisingly such a biography of Cicero simply doesn't exist.  And so we (and Cicero) wait....rough-going account rendered by a friend as opposed to a foe.  But for those who know these issues and the history, we are ultimately left wishing for so much more.<br />As Mary Beard wrote, \\"What we have been waiting for is not another 'straight' biography of Cicero; there are more than enough of those. Much more to the point would be a biographical account that tried to explore the way his life-story has been constructed and reconstructed over the last two thousand years; how we have learned to read Cicero through Jonson, Voltaire, Ibsen and the rest; what kind of investment we still have, and why, in a thundering conservative of the first century BC and his catchy oratorical slogans. Why, in short, is Cicero still around in the 21st century? And on whose terms? Quo usque tandem?\\"<br />Marcus Junius Brutus is the subject of a thoroughly charming biography of this kind -- \\"The Noblest Roman\\", by M.L. Clarke.  Out of print but readily available through the used book shops.  You can read my review of it.  Surprisingly such a biography of Cicero simply doesn't exist.  And so we (and Cicero) wait....	2002-09-19
US	53039492	R361B835V2EEYA	0862920515	906210309	Cicero: A Portrait (BCPaperbacks)	Books	4	101	105	N	N	The one indispensable modern portrait that we have	Rawson's biography of Cicero is probably the ONE indispensable modern portrait that we have.  Readers are advised to start here and avoid  Anthonmy Everitt's better publicised and more lavishly produced volume, \\"Cicero, A Turbulent Life\\". Cicero has, of course, been the subject of innumerable books. His importance to any understanding of his age (or indeed our own) simply can not be underestimated. So prolific was he that during the middle ages he was actually thought to be two people. Tullius and Cicero.<br />With each succeeding generation, new biographers shoulder forward to offer their own interpretations. Cicero's reputation has suffered somewhat of late. A fantastic example of this is the crudely distorted and utterly unhistorical (though admittedly novelistic) treatment he receives in one of Colleen McCullough's Masters of Rome series (which series seems to steadily deteriorate in quality and coherence from volume to volume).  Here Cicero (a tub in the mind of McCollough to Caesar's whale) squeaks and grovels his way through some of the most momentous moments in Roman history.  McCollough (who comically purports in one of her \\"After Words\\" to have her \\"nose glued to the historical record\\") is not alone -- but her purportedly \\"historical\\" portrait surely remains the most distempered and dyspeptic view of Cicero in recent memory.<br />To my view Rawson offers a readable, erudite, accessible biography that canvasses all of the important aspects of his life and thought. She is sympathetic and an admirer,  but she is not blind to his many foibles.<br />As a young man I had a perhaps unreasoning admiration for Cicero. I held him in a somewhat old-fashioned esteem. Rather like the English aristocracy of the 1500s  - they loved their Tully so much that it became a fashion to name their daughters Tully.  I confess I named a succession of dogs after him!<br />But it was Rawson who provided me with the necessary perspective on him. You really need no other. I think that what is important about this volume is the careful attention devoted to Cicero's political and philosophical works.  As you can see from my review of Everitt's book, Mary Beard has best described what we are waiting for: \\"a biographical account that tried to explore the way his life-story has been constructed and reconstructed over the last two thousand years; how we have learned to read Cicero through Jonson, Voltaire, Ibsen and the rest; what kind of investment we still have, and why, in a thundering conservative of the first century BC and his catchy oratorical slogans. Why, in short, is Cicero still around in the 21st century? And on whose terms? Quo usque tandem?\\"<br />Cicero's reputation gets a much needed shot in the arm IN Rawson's volume. She writes, \\"whatever the shortcomings of Cicero's political works, there is no evidence that any of his contemporaries understood the problems of the time as clearly or indeed produced nearly so positive a contribution towards solving them as he did.\\"<br />Her penultimate chapter on his final year in Rome also offers a closely argued reassessment of his place in the \\"final conflict\\". In Rawson's view it was in 43 that he became the \\"true ruler of Rome\\" -- for however brief a period.<br />The book is filled with little gems. It is often remarked that one of Cicero's principal contributions to Rome was his elevation of the language itself. But it was unknown to me that words such as \\"quality\\", \\"essence\\" and \\"moral\\" were first found in Cicero (though derived from Greek roots).<br />Also reproduced here are some of the marvelous witticisms for which he was so justly famous. Upon hearing that Brutus deemed Caesar to have \\"joined the boni\\", Cicero remarked that he did not know \\"where Caesar would find them, unless he first hanged himself.\\"  Cicero is also famous for the oft quoted expression \\"o tempore, o mores\\" which comes from his famous attack on Cataline that began, \\" How far, then Cataline, will you go on abusing our patience. How long, you madman, will you mock at our vengeance? Will there be no end to your unbridled audacity\\".<br />Perhaps the most poignant assessment of Cicero was Plutarch's, though he puts the words in, of all people, Augustus' mouth. The story is extremely famous. August discovers a young grandson reading a volume of Cicero. The terrified boy trembles while his grandfather leafs through the book at length. At last he hands it back with the famous words: \\"an eloquent man, my boy, an eloquent man....and a patriot.\\"<br />Cicero is one of the most important personages in all history. Indeed it is almost impossible for us to understand the roots of our culture unless we understand him. If you read nothing else of him, read this wonderful book.patience. How long, you madman, will you mock at our vengeance? Will there be no end to your unbridled audacity\\". <br />Perhaps the most poignant assessment of Cicero was Plutarch's, though he puts the words in, of all people, Augustus' mouth. The story is extremely famous. August discovers a young grandson reading a volume of Cicero. The terrified boy trembles while his grandfather leafs through the book at length. At last he hands it back with the famous words: \\"an eloquent man, my boy, an eloquent man....and a patriot.\\"<br />Cicero is one of the most important personages in all history. Indeed it is almost impossible for us to understand the roots of our culture unless we understand him. If you read nothing else of him, read this wonderful book.	2002-09-19
US	53039492	R27VTZW46V6Z1	0520201531	629797028	The Last Generation of the Roman Republic	Books	4	108	111	N	N	It will change forever the way you see the Republic.	This book is probably the most important book to have been written on the history of Republican Rome.  If you have serious interest in the subject, you must have it.  Having said that, it is not \\"light reading\\". Weighing it at just over 500 pages it is an exhaustively researched, densely written work of scholarship and erudition.  Yet for all of its density, the style reasonably non-scholarly and it is possible to skim the more difficult passages and still capture the essence of what is being said.<br />Gruen thesis is that the Republic was not breaking down in its last generation and that there was nothing \\"inevitable\\" about what happened even up to the final months preceding the civil wars.<br />\\"The Ciceronian era, he writes in his introduction, \\"will here undergo examination in several different aspects.  An unexpected portrait emerges: conventions were tenacious; no cascading slide downhill to destruction is evident; links to the past were more conspicuous than heralds of the future; tradition, not \\"revolution\\" predominated.\\"<br />It should become apparent here that the principal target of this is none other than Ronald Syme whose magisterial work from the 30s, \\"Roman Revolution\\" so influenced succeeding generations.  It was Syme's view (dubbed a \\"glib pronouncement\\" by Gruen in his conclusion) that the city-state was incapable of governing an empire; the imperial holdings had reached such a proportion that government and society required a fundamental overhauling.  For Syme the fall of the Republic was inevitable - even desirable.<br />Gruen tenaciously refutes this view.  He canvasses the historical record with an eye for detail that is almost supernatural.  There are Chapters on Consular Elections, Legislative Activities, Criminal Trials, The Plebs and the Army, and Discontents and Violence.  In each case the evidence is marshalled and often re-interpreted to prove his central thesis - nothing particularly out of the ordinary was happening - at least as far as the Romans were concerned.  Gruen believes that we have arrived at our modern view of the period because we are so influenced by the result.  \\"Events,\\" he writes, \\"tend to be refashioned into a pattern pointing inescapably to the final collapse.\\"  Speaking of the year 52, he writes, \\"Romans would not have described the events of 52 as a breakdown of the Republic.\\"  And again, \\"Hindsight has caused modern obsession with the background of civil war.  It has too long clouded perception of a central fact: the remarkable conventionality of Roman behaviour.\\"<br />Along the way Gruen offers some startling new insights and interpretations.  For example, it is widely believed that Caesar could not afford to return to Rome as a \\"privatus\\", because he feared he would be immediately prosecuted and eliminated from political life. \\"That analysis\\", he writes, \\"has found its way into virtually every work on the subject, an article of faith unquestioned by the keenest critics.\\"  He proceeds to utterly demolish this analysis and in so doing removes one of THE central underpinnings of the thesis that war was inevitable.<br />Another surprise is the treatment accorded C. Scribonious Curio.  Usually considered a stooge of Caesar's, a puppet of the Big Men, Curio emerges from these pages as a brilliant and talented, but reckless, ambitious and perverse man -- a man with entirely his own agenda, to split Caesar off from Pompey; NOT to advance Caesar's cause, but rather his own.  It becomes abundantly clear that he unleashed forces larger than himself, forces that he was unable to control, forces that ultimately contributed to the civil war.<br />At the very least I would urge anyone with even a passing interest in the Republic to read the introduction and the conclusion.  They are pithy and lucid and pretty much tell the story.  I have been reading about the Republic for much of my adult life.  I am sorry that I came upon this work so late.  It will change forever the way you see the Republic.  And it absolutely MUST be read as a companion to \\"Roman Revolution\\".epublic.  And it absolutely MUST be read as a companion to \\"Roman Revolution\\".	2002-09-05
US	53039492	R1I5BA0IZMTPV3	0060925531	698128879	The Civilization of the Middle Ages: A Completely Revised and Expanded Edition of Medieval History	Books	4	125	140	N	N	Cantor gets medieval but not ancient society right.	This is a book you should buy if you wish to understand the Middle Ages.  But I must tell you that I was very nearly put off it by the author's tragically flawed understanding of Greek and Roman society.  Greek and Roman culture are my areas of interest so I do feel I have some basis upon which to offer this critique.<br />The fact that his understanding of ancient society is flawed is rather frightening, because, as Cantor himself says, \\"...the heritage of the ancient world set the conditions for medieval society.\\"  So as I waded further into his book it was with considerable trepidation.  If he got Greece and Rome so very, very wrong, how on earth could he get the Middle Ages right?<br />For example, reflect upon this near polemical attack on the Roman educational system (which seems to be to blame for a lot if Cantor is to be believed):<br /> \\"The Romans were psychologically damaged by their educational system, as evidenced by their violence, aggression, sadism, hostility to women, and other unattractive characteristics. Children were treated badly, indeed, and many of them grew up to be sadomasochists.\\"<br />It gets better.  He goes on to remark that \\"...vestiges of this system have lived on into the twentieth century.  The educational system of the medieval church was based on the Roman, and there were a good many neurotic educated adults within the medieval church.\\"<br />And what exactly are the characteristics of the Roman educational system that produced this race of monsters? \\"It is a natural system for an aristocratic society, which needs to train its young people only to accept power handed on to them.\\"  The men who taught these benighted children were, and I QUOTE: \\"often slaves and frequently frustrated, sadistic men.\\"<br />Wow!!!  When you read something as novel and outlandish as this, you really want to see some source documentation.  But you will be disappointed here. These remarks are not foot-noted and indeed one of the GRAVE failings of this book is that despite the fact Cantor re-edited and updated the entire text, he does not offer foot-notes.  Having said that, his bibliography is quite good -- it is organized around a sort of top ten list format.  But, curiously, the bibliography is placed AFTER a list of the best movies (!) on the Middle Ages.<br />I suppose like many scholars, he is a \\"man of his period\\" so to speak.  His understanding of the Middle Ages is fluent and masterful, but his knowledge of the epochs that preceded it scanty and ill founded.  Still I find it breath taking that he could be so wrong in places.<br />Having said this, my patience was rewarded.  And my reading on the Middle Ages that I undertook as a result of this book have affirmed my faith in Cantor: he does, after all, get most of it right!<br />What was revolutionary about Cantor's book is that, as the jacket says, his was the \\"first comprehensive general history of the Middle Ages to centre on medieval culture and religion rather than political history.\\"<br />A vital companion to this would be John Julius Norwich's three volume series on Byzantium and Marcia Colish's \\"Medieval Foundations of the Western Intellectual Tradition 400-1400 (Yale Intellectual History of the West)\\".  Do not, under any circumstances bother with William Manchester's gravely flawed: \\"A World Lit Only By Fire\\" (for why I say that, see my review of that book).ok is that despite the fact Cantor re-edited and updated the entire text, he does not offer foot-notes.  Having said that, his bibliography is quite good -- it is organized around a sort of top ten list format.  But, curiously, the bibliography is placed AFTER a list of the best movies (!) on the Middle Ages.<br />I suppose like many scholars, he is a \\"man of his period\\" so to speak.  His understanding of the Middle Ages is fluent and masterful, but his knowledge of the epochs that preceded it scanty and ill founded.  Still I find it breath taking that he could be so wrong in places.<br />Having said this, my patience was rewarded.  And my reading on the Middle Ages that I undertook as a result of this book have affirmed my faith in Cantor: he does, after all, get most of it right!<br />What was revolutionary about Cantor's book is that, as the jacket says, his was the \\"first comprehensive general history of the Middle Ages to centre on medieval culture and religion rather than political history.\\"<br />A vital companion to this would be John Julius Norwich's three volume series on Byzantium and Marcia Colish's \\"Medieval Foundations of the Western Intellectual Tradition 400-1400 (Yale Intellectual History of the West)\\".  Do not, under any circumstances bother with William Manchester's gravely flawed: \\"A World Lit Only By Fire\\" (for why I say that, see my review of that book).	2002-07-05
US	53039492	R33MEOENP0BIU5	0385423756	719500585	On the Origins of War: And the Preservation of Peace	Books	5	64	71	N	N	If you want peace, be prepared to FIGHT for your peace.	This is a spectacular book and one that all Westerners need to read in the wake of the events of last September.  Donald Kagan has become somewhat celebrated of late. His recent book (written with his son) \\"While America Sleeps\\" has been justly praised and arrived at an extremely apros pos moment in American and world history.<br />But it was this book, \\"On the Origins of War and the Preservation of Peace\\" that first brought Kagan to the attention of the world.  Kagan is a classical historian - he is the Bass Professor of History, Classics and Western Civilisation at Yale.  I have reviewed the first volume of what might justly be called his magnum opus (\\"The Outbreak of the Peloponnesian War\\") elsewhere.<br />This is NOT a history of war; this is a history of how it is that people come to fight wars.  And while people often refer to this book as \\"One the Origins of War\\", I think that would be to miss the point.  For this book is more about the preservation of peace than anything else.  Elsewhere I note that Kagan has been critiqued for not spending any time discussing the wars themselves -- and the aftermath of the wars.  But this is ridiculous.  This misses the entire point of what Kagan is trying to do here.  If that is what you are looking for -- look elsewhere and do not fault Kagan for failing to provide it.<br />Drawing heavily upon his classical training, Kagan compares the origins of the Peloponnesian War (431-404 BC) with those of the First World War.  He then compares the origins of the Second Punic War (218-201 BC) with those of the Second World War.  His final chapter deals with the Cuban Missile Crisis (and relies heavily on recently declassified Soviet and American documents).<br />There is a sort of systematic approach.  In each case he examines the nature of the rivalry between the great powers in question.  He then examines, in turn: (1) the nature of the peace that subsisted between the powers in question; (2) the manner in which the peace was \\"tested\\"; (3) the crisis that precipitated the eventual outbreak of war; and (4) the manner in which the war itself broke out - his wonderful chapter on the Peloponnesian War ends simply, \\"So the war came.\\"<br />His thesis can be fairly summarised as follows: no peace keeps itself.  Democracies have to be prepared to fight, to stand up for the peace.  And their willingness to fight for the peace must be CREDIBLE.<br />As always, Kagan's style is lucid and compelling.  This is a man who force of logic gives true meaning to the term \\"ineluctable\\".  For his logic is relentless, his marshalling of the facts is awe-inspiring and his arguments lead inescapably and unavoidably (ineluctably) to their conclusion.<br />His final paragraph will offer eloquent testimony not only of the value of the book, but of the thesis:<br /> \\"The Cuban missile crisis demonstrated that it is not enough for the state that wishes to maintain peace and the status quo to have superior power.  The crisis came because the more powerful state also had a leader [Kennedy] who failed to convince his opponent [Khrushchev] of his will to use its power for that purpose.\\"<br /> This book makes a most interesting companion to any of the works of Victor Davis Hanson (particularly \\"Carnage and Culture\\" or \\"The Soul of Battle\\") or Samuel Huntington (\\"The Clash of Civilisations\\") as well as to the more incisively written books of Robert Kaplan (such as \\"The Ends of the Earth\\").ted\\"; (3) the crisis that precipitated the eventual outbreak of war; and (4) the manner in which the war itself broke out - his wonderful chapter on the Peloponnesian War ends simply, \\"So the war came.\\"<br />His thesis can be fairly summarised as follows: no peace keeps itself.  Democracies have to be prepared to fight, to stand up for the peace.  And their willingness to fight for the peace must be CREDIBLE.<br />As always, Kagan's style is lucid and compelling.  This is a man who force of logic gives true meaning to the term \\"ineluctable\\".  For his logic is relentless, his marshalling of the facts is awe-inspiring and his arguments lead inescapably and unavoidably (ineluctably) to their conclusion.<br />His final paragraph will offer eloquent testimony not only of the value of the book, but of the thesis:<br /> \\"The Cuban missile crisis demonstrated that it is not enough for the state that wishes to maintain peace and the status quo to have superior power.  The crisis came because the more powerful state also had a leader [Kennedy] who failed to convince his opponent [Khrushchev] of his will to use its power for that purpose.\\"<br /> This book makes a most interesting companion to any of the works of Victor Davis Hanson (particularly \\"Carnage and Culture\\" or \\"The Soul of Battle\\") or Samuel Huntington (\\"The Clash of Civilisations\\") as well as to the more incisively written books of Robert Kaplan (such as \\"The Ends of the Earth\\").	2002-07-04
US	53039492	R266YIBMDMNXC8	0345339703	669379389	The Fellowship of the Ring (The Lord of the Rings, Part 1)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Not the best reading -- but for now the only reading.	This is the final instalment in my reviews of the three volumes of the Lord of the Rings as read by Robert Inglis.<br />Anyone who has read my first two will know by now that I am no fan of his style OR delivery.  Having said that, and I feel it necessary to say this at the outset of each review to forestall the lynching: this is the ONLY unabridged version that is available, and it not nearly so objectionable that it can not be recommended.  Indeed, I feel compelled, my misgivings notwithstanding to place this version in a \\"must have\\" category - but only until a better version comes along - Frederic Davidson?  Where are you?  Your country and Tolkein's readers need you!<br />It is my view that Inglis does Tolkien and his characters great disservice in many and varied ways.  Aragorn comes across as an arch, cloying, pompous lout.  The Hobbits are uniformly presented as servile, unctuous, country bumpkins - Sam is the worst.  Legolas is fay and effeminate - almost goofy.  There are times you just want to smack his Frodo and say, \\"oh for god's sake man, get a grip on yourself.\\"  I was NEVER annoyed with any of these characters when I read the book, but one can easily become annoyed with them as presented by Inglis.<br />An interesting \\"acid test\\" for this is Peter Jackson's movie version.  Virtually ALL of his actors and characters get it \\"right\\" - and Inglis does not do well by the comparison.<br />When Inglis does get it right, he is capable of \\"nailing it\\".  Gandalf is excellent, Gollum brilliant, and Treebeard surpassing.<br />The problem is that Inglis has a deep voice and is incapable of pitching it into the higher registers.  His performance rapidly degrades with the number of characters he is required to present in a short period of time.  \\"Return of the King\\" is the worst of the three volumes because there is a welter of voices - most of them men.  At times it is hard to remember who the heck is speaking - so similar do the voices become.<br />And there is another, more insidious problem - my brother Ross first noted this.  When Inglis is required to deliver scenes of great drama - he becomes somewhat shrill and affected.<br />And now I will allow myself on comment on the book itself.  I read this book as a youth - I was enchanted.  And I came back to it as a perhaps jaded 47 year old.  You know what disappointed me the most?  It is the PRFOUNDLY undemocratic nature of Tolkein's tale.  Of course the immediate riposte to this is that it is a fairy-tale.  And fairy-tales are all about kings and queens.  Well, yes, sure, SOME of them are - but by no means all of them.<br />But The Rings is a tale of a pagan time and as my friend Fox and I were discussing, the pagan world was distinctly non-aristocratic.  And it is not as though Tolkein didn't have loads of democratic or semi-democratic models to crib from.  I cringed as the aristocratic leaders made ALL the decisions for their men - there is no HINT of collective decision making.  I thought constantly of the Iliad and the Anabasis of Xenophen -- where the lords and their men regularly debate policy, strategy and even tactics.  Does this destroy the book?  Of course not.  But I do view the apotheosis of Aragorn, for that is what it is, as the central failure of the book.  Tolkein had a magnificent opportunity to have his Aragorn cast off the tyranny of aristocratic blood-lines and establish a democratic society wherein men were governed by elected officials and the rule of law.  And this could have been done without compromising the romance of the story one whit.<br />But that's just me...a 47 year old curmudgeon!  You'll find me happily ensconced in hell with the tyrannicides and regicides.other, more insidious problem - my brother Ross first noted this.  When Inglis is required to deliver scenes of great drama - he becomes somewhat shrill and affected.<br />And now I will allow myself on comment on the book itself.  I read this book as a youth - I was enchanted.  And I came back to it as a perhaps jaded 47 year old.  You know what disappointed me the most?  It is the PRFOUNDLY undemocratic nature of Tolkein's tale.  Of course the immediate riposte to this is that it is a fairy-tale.  And fairy-tales are all about kings and queens.  Well, yes, sure, SOME of them are - but by no means all of them.<br />But The Rings is a tale of a pagan time and as my friend Fox and I were discussing, the pagan world was distinctly non-aristocratic.  And it is not as though Tolkein didn't have loads of democratic or semi-democratic models to crib from.  I cringed as the aristocratic leaders made ALL the decisions for their men - there is no HINT of collective decision making.  I thought constantly of the Iliad and the Anabasis of Xenophen -- where the lords and their men regularly debate policy, strategy and even tactics.  Does this destroy the book?  Of course not.  But I do view the apotheosis of Aragorn, for that is what it is, as the central failure of the book.  Tolkein had a magnificent opportunity to have his Aragorn cast off the tyranny of aristocratic blood-lines and establish a democratic society wherein men were governed by elected officials and the rule of law.  And this could have been done without compromising the romance of the story one whit.<br />But that's just me...a 47 year old curmudgeon!  You'll find me happily ensconced in hell with the tyrannicides and regicides.	2002-06-12
US	53039492	R2ZGM7Z0RXQ6Q0	0226105210	521079761	Edwin Hubble: Mariner of the Nebulae	Books	4	23	23	N	N	A compelling, engaging  book that you won't put down.	If you ever wondered why the Hubble Telescope is called the Hubble Telescope, I have a book that has the answer for you.  In an age where all you have to do to have a highway or bridge or named after you is get elected to some minor office (the \\"Eric Winkler Parkway\\" ???) and where all you have to do to be referred to as a \\"genius\\" is guide an NFL team to a winning record (\\"Tampa sure has turned around since Smith arrived to handle the coaching chores haven't they Dandy? Yes Frank, they sure have, Coach Smith is a genius\\"), it is sobering to meet true genius -- warts and all.<br />When I was in high school, I studied nothing but sciences - with a particular emphasis on Physics and Astronomy - As a child I dreamed of being an astronomer - I built my own telescope. But then fate intervened and I ended up studying English literature and becoming a music lawyer. But later in life, in my early forties, I returned to my first love via a series of general interest science books. One of those books was \\"Edwin Hubble, Mariner of the Nebulae\\".<br />This compelling, lovely book was written by Gale Christianson, the author of an equally engaging portrait of Isaac Newton. Christianson is a Professor of History and writes with a down to earth, straightforward style. He writes for the general reader and does not presume that you are grounded in science or astronomy. So do not fear - dragons be not here.<br />Hubble is easily one of the most important figures to have graced the 20th century - or for that matter all of history. If you think that is an overstatement, then factor this into your thinking. This one man is responsible, virtually single-handedly, for several of the most important discoveries of all time. It was with reference to a discovery of Hubble's that the famous Harlow Shapley remarked, \\"here is the [discovery] that has destroyed my universe\\".<br />1. It was Hubble who confirmed the existence of other nebulae, what are now called galaxies, outside of the \\"Milky Way\\". This seems trite now, but it was not at ALL obvious at the time. Having discovered a Cepheid variable in Andromeda he was able to measure the distance to that body of stars -- the results of his calculation (using the period/luminosity relationship (discovered by Henrietta Leavitt in 1912) that makes Cepheids the standard candles of the universe) proved beyond a doubt that Andromeda was much farther away athan any star in the Milky Way.<br />2. It was Hubble who proved that the universe was expanding (and worked out the famous \\"Hubble Constant\\")- an insight of incalculable significance that laid the cornerstone for the Big Bang theory.<br />3. It was Hubble who developed the system of classification for galaxies that is used to this day.<br />4. It was Hubble who brought forward evidence that the universe is homogenous - i.e., the same in all directions.<br />Incredibly, he never won the Nobel Prize - he died before they got around to recognising him.<br />But this is only part of the story. For Hubble was probably one of the most unlikeable men of all time. He was arrogant, unkind, a publicity hound, revoltingly condescending and patronising, and at times even dishonest. A considerable portion of the book is devoted to exploring his extraordinary \\"reinvention of himself\\". A polite way of saying that he made up stories about his past life to enhance his reputation - for example he claimed to have practised law.<br />Shinning out of the pages of this book, like one of his Cepheid Variables, is the story of his truly extraordinary wife Grace who put up with everything and was constant and faithful to a fault.<br />I guarantee that you will not be able to put this book down. You will be by turns elated, repulsed, amazed, disappointed, astounded and saddened. I very nearly wept during the achingly touching Epilogue. It is one of those special books that you will return to more than once.. This seems trite now, but it was not at ALL obvious at the time. Having discovered a Cepheid variable in Andromeda he was able to measure the distance to that body of stars -- the results of his calculation (using the period/luminosity relationship (discovered by Henrietta Leavitt in 1912) that makes Cepheids the standard candles of the universe) proved beyond a doubt that Andromeda was much farther away athan any star in the Milky Way.<br />2. It was Hubble who proved that the universe was expanding (and worked out the famous \\"Hubble Constant\\")- an insight of incalculable significance that laid the cornerstone for the Big Bang theory.<br />3. It was Hubble who developed the system of classification for galaxies that is used to this day.<br />4. It was Hubble who brought forward evidence that the universe is homogenous - i.e., the same in all directions.<br />Incredibly, he never won the Nobel Prize - he died before they got around to recognising him.<br />But this is only part of the story. For Hubble was probably one of the most unlikeable men of all time. He was arrogant, unkind, a publicity hound, revoltingly condescending and patronising, and at times even dishonest. A considerable portion of the book is devoted to exploring his extraordinary \\"reinvention of himself\\". A polite way of saying that he made up stories about his past life to enhance his reputation - for example he claimed to have practised law.<br />Shinning out of the pages of this book, like one of his Cepheid Variables, is the story of his truly extraordinary wife Grace who put up with everything and was constant and faithful to a fault.<br />I guarantee that you will not be able to put this book down. You will be by turns elated, repulsed, amazed, disappointed, astounded and saddened. I very nearly wept during the achingly touching Epilogue. It is one of those special books that you will return to more than once.	2002-06-12
US	53039492	RW8Y6J115XVEU	0679401369	851652546	Frontiers: the Epic of South Africa's Creation and the Tragedy of the Xhosa People	Books	5	22	22	N	N	The Epic of South Africa�s Creation	This is a riveting, tautly written, \\"page-turner\\".  And thank heavens, because it clocks in at a whopping 1300 pages.  But do NOT let that deter you.  If Africa is of interest to you then you NEED to, you MUST, read this book.  The period under study dates from the earliest explorations of South Africa (late 1400s) to the late 1800s.<br />Mostert's approach is sensitive and balanced - as the subtitle conveys \\"The Epic of South Africa's Creation and the Tragedy of the Xhosa People\\".  It is narrative in format and the experience (and indeed the pleasure) of reading this book is not dissimilar from that of reading Shelby Foote's monumental three volume \\"The Civil War: A Narrative\\".  The flyleaf describes \\"Frontiers\\" as having a \\"Gibbonesque sweep\\" and this is extremely apt.<br />There are good maps, though too few of them.  The style is fluid and compelling.  The descriptions of the landscape are wonderfully evocative.  This book provides everything that one needs to understand that tragedy that unfolded in modern day South Africa.  One is left yearning for the paradise that was so clearly lost.<br />One of the best ways for me to recommend this book to you is by excerpting a passage:<br />\\"It was a battle that fell into complete obscurity.... It was, so to speak, an event without a name, a four-hour long retreat along a wagon road, an agonizing struggle, yard by yard, mile by mile.  It was a severe humiliation....which may have helped dim its historic judgement.  Yet not again until Rorke's Drift some eighteen years on would the British army again fight and die in such a brave, cruel and intimate scuffle on the African veld.  There were to be no medals or recognition for the infantryman of the 91st on the road between Forts Hare and Cox on 29 December 1850.  But as Robert Godlonton said, there had never been anything like it in frontier war.  Maqoma paid the infantrymen high tribute.  Describing the battle he was to say of the 91st that `they died fighting and cursing to the last.'<br />The fighting was hand to hand, a brutal melee marked by the sort of acts of prompt individual heroism, and of miraculous survival that such ferocious close combat inevitably produced, a situation where every man was immediately for himself, with no certain idea of what was happening except directly in front of him, and yet with the fate of a companion often suddenly intrusive upon his own struggles.\\"<br />This conveys the immediacy and the force with which Mostert writes.  If you loved Pakenham's \\"Scramble for Africa\\", or Alan Moorehead's books on the Nile, you will not be disappointed.to the last.'<br />The fighting was hand to hand, a brutal melee marked by the sort of acts of prompt individual heroism, and of miraculous survival that such ferocious close combat inevitably produced, a situation where every man was immediately for himself, with no certain idea of what was happening except directly in front of him, and yet with the fate of a companion often suddenly intrusive upon his own struggles.\\"<br />This conveys the immediacy and the force with which Mostert writes.  If you loved Pakenham's \\"Scramble for Africa\\", or Alan Moorehead's books on the Nile, you will not be disappointed.	2002-05-23
US	53039492	R36HU4YZTFI9QU	1561310506	301768409	001: People of the Black Mountains: The Beginning	Books	5	15	15	N	N	An authentic, little known masterpiece.	Raymond Williams is one of the authentic geniuses of our time.  And this book is an authentic masterpiece.  It is a terrible pity that he is so little known and so under appreciated.<br />\\"The People of the Black Mountains\\" is a historical novel  It was his last writing, and his greatest. It was intended to be a trilogy tracing the history of his beloved Wales from Neolithic times up to the present day.  Alas, he did not live to complete the third volume - though his wife offers a synopsis of where the third volume was to have gone.<br />Williams uses a very clever device.  The novel begins in the present day. Glyn and Megan are driving to the Black Mountains to visit Glyn's grandfather, Elis.  They arrive late in the day.  Elis is no where to be seen.  There is a note.  Elis is out walking in the hills. He should have been back.  Worried, Glyn sets out to track his father in the gloaming.<br />Thus begins a tale that is drenched in history and place.  As Glyn walks the hills, calling his grandfather's name, an echo wafts back on the breeze, but it is not the name of his grandfather that comes back to him, but that of \\"Marod\\".  And, with Glyn, we are catapulted back into Neolithic times.<br />The story weaves back and forth.  We periodically come back to Glyn as he traverses the Black Mountains.  And as he does, the history of his people speak to him from the dales and the peaks - from the very sandstone itself.  The story is roughly chronological, so that each time we move back in time, it is to a time less remote.  Vikings, Romans, Saxons, Normans - all in their turn wash over the black mountains and recede - like a tide - but always leaving the place essentially unchanged.<br />This is a riveting, taut, hauntingly beautiful book.  And I offer as a testament, the very first lines:<br />\\"See this layered sandstone in the short mountain grass.  Place your right hand on it, palm downward.  See where the summer sun rises and where it stands at noon.  Direct your index finger midway between them. Spread your fingers, not widely.  You now hold this place in your hand.\\"<br />Thus he describes the topography of the Black Mountains.<br />Raymond Williams (1921-88) was born in the Welsh village of Pandy, Abergavenny, the son of a railway signalman. Rising above his station (as they used to say), he won a scholarship to Trinity College, Cambridge and eventually became a professor of Drama there.  Like many of his generation, he not only grappled with ideas, but with men - he served as a captain in an anti-Tank armoured division during WW II, taking part in the D-Day invasion of Europe.  Williams loved ideas and culture and his writings established him leading critic and theorist in the fields of communications and cultural studies.finger midway between them. Spread your fingers, not widely.  You now hold this place in your hand.\\"<br />Thus he describes the topography of the Black Mountains.<br />Raymond Williams (1921-88) was born in the Welsh village of Pandy, Abergavenny, the son of a railway signalman. Rising above his station (as they used to say), he won a scholarship to Trinity College, Cambridge and eventually became a professor of Drama there.  Like many of his generation, he not only grappled with ideas, but with men - he served as a captain in an anti-Tank armoured division during WW II, taking part in the D-Day invasion of Europe.  Williams loved ideas and culture and his writings established him leading critic and theorist in the fields of communications and cultural studies.	2002-05-16
US	53039492	R2Y6U3RFL0VRZS	0198810016	392933251	The Roman Revolution (Oxford Paperbacks)	Books	5	123	125	N	N	Syme's Controversial Masterwork	This is without doubt Syme's masterwork. The praise has been lavish. A.J.P. Taylor said it was a \\"work of brilliant scholarship which can be enjoyed by the expert and the layman alike\\". Sir Maurice Bowra said \\"his work is extraordinarily persuasive and interesting, it is the best book on Roman History that has appeared for many years.\\" The Classical Review wrote that is the \\"one of the most important books on Roman history since Mommsen.<br />Need more reasons to read it? Well, I'll try. I'll start by saying that this is one of the top 25 books I have read - though I by no means agree with everything Syme believes.<br />What Ronald Syme has done is to lay bare the workings of the late Republic and early Empire. To do this required an effort of scholarship and synthesis on a gargantuan scale. And yet Syme manages to render the story in a lucid, straightforward, compelling manner. His arguments are often ineluctable. You find yourself drawn along, at times unwillingly, to conclusions you thought far-fetched.<br />The period under scrutiny is 60 BC to AD 14. Thus he covers the last generation of the Republic and the first two or three of the Empire. In a nutshell his hypothesis is that the Republic simply was not equipped to manage what had become an empire. He believes that Rome was inevitably drawn to the rule of one.<br />He writes of Caesar: \\"The rule of the nobiles, he [Caesar] could see, was an anachronism in a world-empire; and so was the power of the Roam plebs when all Italy enjoyed the franchise. Caesar in truth was more conservative and Roman that many have fancied; no Roman conceived of government save through an oligarchy.\\"<br />Augustus, however, was a different matter. And it was Augustus, believes Syme, who wrought the revolution that forever changed the Roman way of life. To suggest, as has some have done, that there was no true revolution, almost defies sense and logic. And Syme ably makes the case.<br />But aspects of the Syme's theory remain controversial. He writes: \\"The nobiles by their ambition and their feuds, had not merely destroyed their spurious republic: they had ruined the Roman People. There is something more important than political liberty; and political rights are a means, not an end in themselves. That end is security of life and property: it could not be guaranteed by the constitution of Republican Rome. Worn and broken by civil war and disorder, The Roman people was ready to surrender the ruinous privilege of freedom and submit to strict government as the beginning of time....So order came to Rome. \\"Acriora ex eo vincula\\", as Tacitus observes.\\"<br />Wow. This is breath taking and highly controversial. He might as well have been writing about pre-Nazi Germany (and note that Syme wrote \\"The Roman Revolution\\" in 1939). And, frankly, I must tell you I do not agree with his condemnation of the nobiles. Nor do others.<br />The most important voice in opposition remains that of Erich Gruen's. \\"The Last Generation of the Roman Republic\\" MUST be read alongside \\"The Roman Revolution.\\" Gruen believes that the monarchy was in fact neither anticipated nor inevitable. And he strongly believes that the Republic was functioning quite well, thank you very much, and could in fact have coped with empire.ersial. He writes: \\"The nobiles by their ambition and their feuds, had not merely destroyed their spurious republic: they had ruined the Roman People. There is something more important than political liberty; and political rights are a means, not an end in themselves. That end is security of life and property: it could not be guaranteed by the constitution of Republican Rome. Worn and broken by civil war and disorder, The Roman people was ready to surrender the ruinous privilege of freedom and submit to strict government as the beginning of time....So order came to Rome. \\"Acriora ex eo vincula\\", as Tacitus observes.\\"<br />Wow. This is breath taking and highly controversial. He might as well have been writing about pre-Nazi Germany (and note that Syme wrote \\"The Roman Revolution\\" in 1939). And, frankly, I must tell you I do not agree with his condemnation of the nobiles. Nor do others.<br />The most important voice in opposition remains that of Erich Gruen's. \\"The Last Generation of the Roman Republic\\" MUST be read alongside \\"The Roman Revolution.\\" Gruen believes that the monarchy was in fact neither anticipated nor inevitable. And he strongly believes that the Republic was functioning quite well, thank you very much, and could in fact have coped with empire.	2002-05-16
US	53039492	R3J3FW4TYO6J9A	0316545562	70090647	A World Lit Only by Fire: The Medieval Mind and the Renaissance: Portrait of an Age	Books	2	28	37	N	N	Definitely not the first book to read about the Middle Ages	This is definitely not the first book you want to read about the Middle Ages.  Notwithstanding the laudatory comments of other reviewers, and the virtual reverence in which William Manchester seems to be held.  There is quite a controversy about this book, to judge by the other reviews - which I urge you to read to get a flavour for the dispute.  Here is why I say you should avoid this book.<br />The man who revolutionised the way we think of the Middle Ages was NOT William Manchester.  It was Norman F. Cantor.  His book, \\"The Civilization of the Middle Ages\\" was the first book to focus on the culture and religion of the period as opposed to the political history.  And before Cantor it was a commonly held view that Western Europe during this period was a dank hell-hole with no redeeming value for civilization - indeed most people referred to the period as \\"The Dark Ages\\".  Cantor changed this forever.  Cantor's enthusiasm and erudition is legendary.  The book, when it appeared in 1963, created a sensation - and it has recently been expanded and updated.<br />Why all of this about Cantor in a review of Manchester? Because NONE of these things can be said about Manchester's book.  Now the apologists for his book suggest that those of us who are critical of it should \\"lighten up\\"; that \\"A World Lit Only By Fire\\" is an introductory volume for general audiences; that it is beautifully written - and so forth.<br />Fair enough.  But on at least part of this we will have to agree to disagree. Yes it is an introductory volume, but BECAUSE of that I have cause to shudder.  This is NOT the first book I would want a general reader to encounter as he or she launch forth on a voyage of discover of the Middle Ages.  For one thing Manchester is dead wrong about so many things it takes your breath away.  This has been adequately documented elsewhere, so I will not delve into details. Manchester almost exclusively uses secondary sources - which is not a crime in and of itself - but the astonishing fact is that he does not even acknowledge the existence of Cantor!  THAT is criminal.  It is almost as if he wants to wish Cantor (who would be his competitor in a sense) out of existence.  And the worst part of it is that Manchester's view of what life was like in the Middle Ages is vastly out of date - it is unrepresentative of what we now know to be the case.<br />The first time I tried to read this book I actually put it aside in disgust after sixty pages.  But I forced myself to finish.  It is full of trite generalisations, glib commentaries, vapid  truisms and empty but expansive judgements.  This is not to say Manchester did not love his subject matter.  It is to say that his grasp of it is tragically flawed.  The general (and indeed specialist) reader is advised to RUN to \\"The Civilization of the Middle Ages\\" by Norman F. Cantor and to steer clear of this below par effort from an otherwise quite brilliant writer.he astonishing fact is that he does not even acknowledge the existence of Cantor!  THAT is criminal.  It is almost as if he wants to wish Cantor (who would be his competitor in a sense) out of existence.  And the worst part of it is that Manchester's view of what life was like in the Middle Ages is vastly out of date - it is unrepresentative of what we now know to be the case.<br />The first time I tried to read this book I actually put it aside in disgust after sixty pages.  But I forced myself to finish.  It is full of trite generalisations, glib commentaries, vapid  truisms and empty but expansive judgements.  This is not to say Manchester did not love his subject matter.  It is to say that his grasp of it is tragically flawed.  The general (and indeed specialist) reader is advised to RUN to \\"The Civilization of the Middle Ages\\" by Norman F. Cantor and to steer clear of this below par effort from an otherwise quite brilliant writer.	2002-05-16
US	53039492	R37S5F6F1MF982	078878983X	669379389	The Two Towers (The Lord of the Rings, Book 2)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	This is a review of the Reader	In my review of his reading of the Fellowship of the Ring, I gave poor old Rob Inglis a bit of a drubbing (rated three stars).  And, in my review of the second set, I am going to give him a bit of a break.<br />My general comments about Inglis stand.  He is a bit one paced.  Because of the nature of his voice he is limited as to the range of voices he can adopt.  And he as a tendency to read in an arch, almost pretentious manner which does the book and many of the characters something of a disservice.  I think that because of his own age, Inglis has a tendency to make his characters sound older than they should.  The best example of this is Aragorn and it was my wife who made this point first.  I have always seen him as a young, vigorous man - early thirties.  This is how Peter Jackson also saw him if his casting is any judge.  But Inglis' rendering suggests a middle-aged man - in his mid fifties.<br />However, my recommendation, then, as now, is to buy this version as it is the only extant unabridged version of Lord of the Rings that is available.<br />Having said that, he seems appreciably better in his rendering of the characters in this volume of the trilogy - perhaps he grew into the reading as he went along - this often happens.  There are certain characters which he has \\"nailed\\" - among them Tree Beard and most importantly of all, Gollum.  Inglis' rendering of Gollum is near letter-perfect.<br />For all my quibbles, I was completely addicted to this reading.  I drive about 30 minutes to and from work each day - and have a 2 hour drive to and from our farm on weekends.  If I ever found myself in the car at the end of a set of CDs, with a long drive ahead of me, I almost went stir crazy.  I should also say that my brother, also a LoTR aficionado does not have the same problem with Inglis - he even likes listening to the songs! - which I still find un-listenable.	2002-05-10
US	53039492	R2GLBHKNQLEBR8	0375502726	585847413	Eastward to Tartary: Travels in the Balkans, the Middle East, and the Caucasus	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Yesterday's dinner becomes  today's lunch.	\\"Balkan Ghosts\\" and \\"To the Ends of the Earth\\" are two of the more spectacular travel books I have ever read.  Kaplan is a journalist who writes lucidly and trenchantly.  Who is not afraid to pull his punches and speak his mind -- even when what he has to say may be politically sensitive or \\"incorrect\\".  His portrait of Greece in \\"Balkan Ghosts\\" changed forever the way I see that country. So I begin by saying that when this man is on top of his game -- he can WRITE!!<br />People who read his books want to think that the West's, or at least America's, foreign policy is actually being informed by his writing -- and maybe it has to some extent.  To the point where Richard Bernstein in the New York Times Review of Books wrote, \\"The recommendation to the next head of the greatest power of them all: read this book.\\"<br />Whoa.  Let's take a deep breath for a second here and think deep blue sea.  Kaplan is a wonderful writer.  And he travels to the back of beyond.  And he is brave, forthright and uncompromising.  But should foreign policy be influenced by him?  Does he, \\"belong in the company of giants like Sir Richard Burton\\"? I am not so sure.<br />For one thing, Kaplan is the master of the anecdote -- yes he does his research, but at the end of the day, the views that are expressed are to some extent unscientifically collected and presented.  Kaplan is an aggregator.  He is a popularizer of the views of Donald Kagan, Samuel Huntington, Victor Hanson and others (which isn't to say he doesn't have his own voice or ideas).  And all aggregators run the risk of sometimes just \\"getting it wrong.\\"<br />This is particularly true of his flimsy volume, \\"Warrior Politcs\\" which is a disappointing rehash of rather superficial articles that had been previously published.  It is also true of \\"Eastward to Tartary\\".  This is a sort of \\"Balkan Ghosts-lite\\".  In fact in the early chapters he retraces some of his earlier travels -- but his insights are hardly as trenchant.  And sometimes he says truly outlandish things.  For example, when writing of the Romanian Army on the East Front, he says, \\"The Romanian military also had a good fighting reputation...It was only because the Romanians had been forced marched while underfed that the Russians were able to break through their lines near Stalingrad.\\"  Excuse me?  Where on earth did Kaplan come up with THAT notion. How about they had no armour, no winter clothing and most importantly no anti-tank weapons.<br />He is also a prognosticator and unlike his earlier books which seem to be standing the test of time, I am not so sure his more recent doom and gloom prophecies are being born out.  He is in danger of becoming a latter day Chicken Little: \\"the sky is falling, the sky is falling.\\"  Sure it is.<br />Now, it is unfair to judge his entire book on the basis of a few errors.  But believe me, this book has more than just the one cited.  And one does become just a tad weary of his formula. It also has the air of a book that was hurriedly tossed off to satisfy a hungry public or a contractual requirement.  His judgements come to easily, to quickly, without adequate preparation or evidence.  Whereas I scoured \\"Balkan Ghosts\\" and \\"To the Ends of the Earth\\", I found myself losing focus and flipping pages.<br />I admire Robert Kaplan.  And I share many of his opinions.  I suppose it is good that these views are represented by a writer whose books are widely read.  But I want him to be better because he CAN be better.  I just wish he would return to his old form and stop serving up yesterday's dinner for today's lunch.e says truly outlandish things.  For example, when writing of the Romanian Army on the East Front, he says, \\"The Romanian military also had a good fighting reputation...It was only because the Romanians had been forced marched while underfed that the Russians were able to break through their lines near Stalingrad.\\"  Excuse me?  Where on earth did Kaplan come up with THAT notion. How about they had no armour, no winter clothing and most importantly no anti-tank weapons.<br />He is also a prognosticator and unlike his earlier books which seem to be standing the test of time, I am not so sure his more recent doom and gloom prophecies are being born out.  He is in danger of becoming a latter day Chicken Little: \\"the sky is falling, the sky is falling.\\"  Sure it is.<br />Now, it is unfair to judge his entire book on the basis of a few errors.  But believe me, this book has more than just the one cited.  And one does become just a tad weary of his formula. It also has the air of a book that was hurriedly tossed off to satisfy a hungry public or a contractual requirement.  His judgements come to easily, to quickly, without adequate preparation or evidence.  Whereas I scoured \\"Balkan Ghosts\\" and \\"To the Ends of the Earth\\", I found myself losing focus and flipping pages.<br />I admire Robert Kaplan.  And I share many of his opinions.  I suppose it is good that these views are represented by a writer whose books are widely read.  But I want him to be better because he CAN be better.  I just wish he would return to his old form and stop serving up yesterday's dinner for today's lunch.	2002-05-02
US	53039492	R1DDTYX6D4J70J	0806129980	14871685	Archaeology, History, and Custer's Last Battle: The Little Big Horn Re-examined	Books	4	97	111	N	N	Well written book, no matter what you think.	I think the polarisation of the reviews here tells the whole story.  You are either going to love this book or hate it.  Those who favour the revisionist view will love it, and those who like the accepted, \\"historical\\" image of Custer's Last Stand are going to hate it.<br />So let me help you to figure out whether you want this book or not.  For me there should be a middle ground.  You can disagree -- but you have to admire the scholarship and the effort.  Fox clearly stands on his own -- a \\"blazed pine in a clearing of Custer devotees\\" (to paraphrase James Fenmore Cooper).<br />In a nutshell, Fox's thesis is that there WAS no last stand.  He took advantage of the burndown that occured some years back to get in there with metal detectors.  He undertook a minute forensic examination of the battlefield. For Fox, the evidence seemed to suggest a rout.  Were there to have been a last stand, one would have expected multiple shell casings from a given gun in a given firing position. In fact, he could find no evidence of this.  What he did find was shell casings from the same gun in positions that suggested the individual firing the gun was \\"vectoring\\" -- i.e. constantly on the move.  The image is of a group of men running, stopping briefly to fire over their shoulders, and then moving on.  This is but one of dozens of examples he gives.<br />As with any evidence, it is open to interpretation.  And people will always disagree.  But agree or disagree with Fox, the reason the book HAS to get four stars and not one, is that it is so well written, so persuasively written.  I do not believe a book earns a one star review because it advances a thesis that may be incorrect.  For me? I have to say the jury is still out.<br />Yet Fox is persuasive not only because of the archeological evidence, but because he relies quite heavily upon the oral tradition handed down by the aboriginal fighters who were present that day.<br />I find it amusing that certain of Fox's detractors actually purport to RELY on the oral evidence.  For generations the accepted view of the battle completely IGNORED the oral historical evidence.  And, indeed, the preponderance of this evidence favours Fox's view.  One has to decide for oneself whether there is credence to be given to the oral histories -- I am not so sure how much credence should be given.<br />Fox also analyses then current manuals of combat to try and figure out how Custer's men would have fought and stationed themselves -- and again, he makes this evidence neatly fit his hypothesis.<br />Now, we have to be careful about something here.  Fox at no time questions the heroism of the men involved in this struggle -- though Custer's command performance clearly ranks up there with the top dumb ... performances of all time -- but his men were brave, fought valiantly and died heroically.<br />So, if you absolutely LOVE the accepted view of Custer -- be preared for a rough ride.  But if you have an open mind and are ready for an extremely interesting, but rough, ride buy this book.<br />And, one foot note - something that has always saddenly me is the treatment doled out by history to Major Reno and Captain Benteen.  These guys DID conduct a displined, last ditch defence.  And did so dug into a hillside for THREE days.  There is no debate about this at ALL.  They were down to throwing rocks at their tormentors when the Souix suddenly pulled out.  Yet such was Custer's luster, that Reno was branded a coward for NOT going to his commander's aid -- even though that was clearly impossible.  He was originally buried in a paurer's grave.  Scandalous.  WILL SOMEONE PLEASE MAKE A MOVIE ABOUT MAJOR RENO?ly purport to RELY on the oral evidence.  For generations the accepted view of the battle completely IGNORED the oral historical evidence.  And, indeed, the preponderance of this evidence favours Fox's view.  One has to decide for oneself whether there is credence to be given to the oral histories -- I am not so sure how much credence should be given.<br />Fox also analyses then current manuals of combat to try and figure out how Custer's men would have fought and stationed themselves -- and again, he makes this evidence neatly fit his hypothesis.<br />Now, we have to be careful about something here.  Fox at no time questions the heroism of the men involved in this struggle -- though Custer's command performance clearly ranks up there with the top dumb ... performances of all time -- but his men were brave, fought valiantly and died heroically.<br />So, if you absolutely LOVE the accepted view of Custer -- be preared for a rough ride.  But if you have an open mind and are ready for an extremely interesting, but rough, ride buy this book.<br />And, one foot note - something that has always saddenly me is the treatment doled out by history to Major Reno and Captain Benteen.  These guys DID conduct a displined, last ditch defence.  And did so dug into a hillside for THREE days.  There is no debate about this at ALL.  They were down to throwing rocks at their tormentors when the Souix suddenly pulled out.  Yet such was Custer's luster, that Reno was branded a coward for NOT going to his commander's aid -- even though that was clearly impossible.  He was originally buried in a paurer's grave.  Scandalous.  WILL SOMEONE PLEASE MAKE A MOVIE ABOUT MAJOR RENO?	2002-05-02
US	53039492	R2YIN34TA86IIB	0553580531	409245980	Gates of Fire: An Epic Novel of the Battle of Thermopylae	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Sparta gets her day in the sun.	The first thing you need to know about Pressfield is that he has read his Victor Davis Hanson, Donald Kagan and John Keegan.  Indeed some of the battle descriptions come straight from the pages of these worthy writers.  And Pressfield is very upfront about this debt. And the fact that he has done his research makes this novel worth reading almost in and of itself.  For by rendering the views of these scholars into novelistic form, he makes available to the general public insights about how the Greeks lived and fought.<br />He also owes a HUGE debt to Paul Cartledge -- whose book, \\"Spartan Reflections\\" I have to say I can not recommend to a non-specialist audience.  Yes, Pressfield loves his Spartans.  Almost to the exclusion, it would seem, of the rest of Greece.  His portrait of deomcratic Athens is shocking -- a place you wouldn't really want to visit.  But Sparta?  What a great place (just ignore those helots over there).<br />And here is the nub of what I have to say.  You can dig and scour and revise history all you want, but at the end of the day, the Spartans were a militaristic, profoundly undemocratic society whose contributions to our culture are minimal.  Pressfield, perhaps unconsciously (or consciously) aware of this seeks to at least accord the laurel to Sparta for SAVING that part of Greece, (Athens) which really WAS important to our cultural history.<br />He has Leonidas say, \\"If we had withdrawn from these Gates today, brothers, no matter what prodigies of valour we had performed up till now, this battle would have been perceived as a defeat....If we had saved our skins today, one by one the separate cities would have caved in behind us, until the whole of Hellas had fallen.\\"<br />Okay, that's fine if it is just the pre-battle bombast from a leader of men about to die.  But Pressfield follows it up with THIS remark: \\"The men listened soberly, knowing the king's assessment accurately reflected reality.\\"<br />Excuse me?  Are we seriously to take the view that had Leonidas evacuated with his remnants that Themistocles and the Athenians would have shipped oars and packed it in?  Pressfield seems to think so.  And for those of you who agree, may I recommend, Peter Green's wonderful \\"The Greco-Persian Wars\\" - hopefully it will change your mind.  The Spartans may have died for many things, honour being one of them, but the heroic last stand did not change history - it did not save Greece.  What it DID do was add an absolutely extraordinary act of bravery to the annals of mankind - and it made a lot of widows and orphans in the process.<br />Pressfield has a wonderful habit of using the origianl Greek - he peppers his prose with it. You'll be surprised at the origin of many well known English words.  Enough has been written about the authenticity of the battle scenes.  They are fantastic.  But there is much, much more.  There is a truly brilliant scene where a map of the world is shown to the Spartans by some Egyptian sailors.  We forget.  At this time in history people had very little idea of where the hell they were - or just how big the world was.  Susan P. Mattern does a very nice job of communicating this in her book, \\"Rome and the Enemy\\".<br />At times the dialogue and story-line are a bit hokey (the attack on the King's tent, for example - oh come on!!).  And, yes, it sure does have the feel of a book ready-made for a screenpplay - but so what. It was a pot-boiler and putting the foregoing quibbles and his pro-Spartan bias to one side, I loved it.the view that had Leonidas evacuated with his remnants that Themistocles and the Athenians would have shipped oars and packed it in?  Pressfield seems to think so.  And for those of you who agree, may I recommend, Peter Green's wonderful \\"The Greco-Persian Wars\\" - hopefully it will change your mind.  The Spartans may have died for many things, honour being one of them, but the heroic last stand did not change history - it did not save Greece.  What it DID do was add an absolutely extraordinary act of bravery to the annals of mankind - and it made a lot of widows and orphans in the process.<br />Pressfield has a wonderful habit of using the origianl Greek - he peppers his prose with it. You'll be surprised at the origin of many well known English words.  Enough has been written about the authenticity of the battle scenes.  They are fantastic.  But there is much, much more.  There is a truly brilliant scene where a map of the world is shown to the Spartans by some Egyptian sailors.  We forget.  At this time in history people had very little idea of where the hell they were - or just how big the world was.  Susan P. Mattern does a very nice job of communicating this in her book, \\"Rome and the Enemy\\".<br />At times the dialogue and story-line are a bit hokey (the attack on the King's tent, for example - oh come on!!).  And, yes, it sure does have the feel of a book ready-made for a screenpplay - but so what. It was a pot-boiler and putting the foregoing quibbles and his pro-Spartan bias to one side, I loved it.	2002-05-02
US	53039492	R3SJSWWHS6GLFP	0300074115	814036431	Celebrating Homer's Landscapes: Troy and Ithaca Revisited	Books	5	3	4	N	N	If you Love Homer -- BUY THIS BOOK	This book is a treasure.  And no reader of the Iliad or the Odyssey (or indeed lover of classical Greek culture) should be without it.  It is an easy read.  It is amply illustrated.  There are good maps and wonderful photographs.<br />Luce's thesis is that Homer had actually visited the places he wrote about in the Iliad and the Odyssey.  Luce writes to counteract what he refers to as the trend ro regard Homeric accounts of landscape and locality as &quot;poetic constructions&quot;.  Luce's states that firmly believes Homer's paramount concern with respect to local description was &quot;truth to life&quot;.<br />His point is that Homer's various descriptions accord with the ACTUAL landscape one would have seen had one been standing where the narrator of the view stood.  And because there is such concordance, it means that either Homer himself or people he had spoken to must have stood, for example, where Helen stood when she gazed out over the marshalling of the Greek troops. Or have seen the &quot;twin sources...of the Scamander.&quot; Luce believes he has actually found these two pools.<br />A truly astonishing example of this is the concordance between the &quot;Homeric topography&quot; of Hera's journey from Mount Olympus to Mount Ida and &quot;real world topography&quot;.  The point that needs to be made here is that the ancient Greeks has extraordinarily crude maps -- it wasn't as though Homer could rely on a map for his geography - he needed to have BEEN there.<br />Luce documents his thesis in extraordinary detail with reference to Homer, ancient writers, more recent commentators and archeological finds.  He includes many many excerpts from Homer -- translated with startling beauty by himself.  Luce himself visited virtually every single site he writes about and some of the most compelling evidence lies often in his own photographs.  Most of these photographs are in gorgeous colour and my one regret is that this book was not coffee-table sized.  It should have been.<br />Luce's major task is to make the case for modern day Hisarlik as the site of ancient Troy.  And this occupies a central portion of the work.  But considerable attention is spent on Ithica and Odysseus journey's as well.<br />What shines out through all of this is Luce's love of his subject.  I must confess that at times I felt the thesis became strained as he sought to fit even the most unlikely Homeric descriptions into the geography of Greece and Turkey.  But any reservations became quickly banished with the turn of a page.<br />After reading this book, you will start planning your trip.  Indeed this book could become a vertiable vacation planner.  Buy it.ve been.<br />Luce's major task is to make the case for modern day Hisarlik as the site of ancient Troy.  And this occupies a central portion of the work.  But considerable attention is spent on Ithica and Odysseus journey's as well.<br />What shines out through all of this is Luce's love of his subject.  I must confess that at times I felt the thesis became strained as he sought to fit even the most unlikely Homeric descriptions into the geography of Greece and Turkey.  But any reservations became quickly banished with the turn of a page.<br />After reading this book, you will start planning your trip.  Indeed this book could become a vertiable vacation planner.  Buy it.	2002-05-02
US	53039492	R1DHP6KSY0I9LZ	8441405654	842909886	Salambó	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A beautiful novel of Ancient Carthage	Salambo is Gustav Flaubert's carefully researched \\"novelization\\" of the actual conflict (241 - 238 B.C.E.) between Hamilcar Barca and Carthage on the one hand and an army of disaffected former mercenaries on the other.  It was first published in 1862.<br />Flaubert envisages a terrified city reduced to human sacrifice in an effort to save itself. Outside the mighty walls roils a horde of mercenaries bent on the utter annihilation of Carthage.  All manner of horror (described in at times gruesome detail) unfolds during the war - torture, crucifixion, murder, cannibalism, human sacrifice.<br />The mercenaries are led by Matho, a charismatic Gaul of immense strength - but with a fatal flaw.  A chance meeting with the exquisite Salambo, high priestess of the goddess Tanit and daughter to Hamilcar Barca, nearly proves to be his undoing.  He becomes obsessed with her.  He contrives to steal the veil of Tanit - an icon sacred to Carthage, without which the city will surely perish.  Only Salambo, or so it seems, can save the nation.  But at what terrible cost?<br />This wonderful little gem caught me almost completely by surprise.  I actually did not read it but listened to the audio cassette.  I would at times sit in the drive way outside my house unable to stop listening.  While at first glance not what one might expect from one of the masters of French Realism (who wanted to hold up a mirror to the world and show both the beauty of the sky and the filth of the mud in the street), it is in fact a meticulously researched and accurate  recreation of the world of Carthage after the First Punic War-- a world about which nogt enough is known.  So it is in that sense, entirely in keeping with Falubert's body of work.<br />When this book was published there had been a surge of interest in Carthage (See also The Young Carthaginian by G. A. Henty).  Surprisingly, to me anyway, many of the Victorians preferred the Carthaginians to the bully boy Romans -- perhaps because their sympathy ultimately lay with the vanquished Greek civilization.thy ultimately lay with the vanquished Greek civilization.	2002-04-17
US	53039492	R34MWQR8GJR62K	0881924040	176105513	Dirr's Hardy Trees and Shrubs: An Illustrated Encyclopedia	Books	5	195	196	N	N	Thank God for Michael Dirr	This is possibly the most useful book on trees for the non-specialist in existence (though any arborist or landscape designer worth their salt should, and probably does, have it).  Here's why.<br />Alone among books on trees, Dirr provides not only descriptions of the trees, but he offers landscaping assessments.  And he is not faint of heart.  If he doesn't like a tree, he'll tell you.  For example, of the Poplar, he famously wrote, &quot;I have never recommended a Poplar to anyone, at least while conscious.&quot;  Of the Common Ninebark he comments, &quot;an extremely adaptable plant, perhaps even to nuclear attacks, and once established, requires a bulldozer for removal.&quot;<br />But it is when Dirr waxes lyrical about a tree that he loves that he achieves his apotheosis.  He introduces one tree with this simple sentence:  &quot;I love this tree.&quot; He describes a beech forest as \\"one of the most awe inspiring sight in nature.\\"  The Silver Linden is the \\"Beauty Queen\\" among Lindens.  Of the Maackii Amurensis he writes, &quot;Unheralded and unknown, except in the gardens of the fortunate few.&quot;<br />Based on THAT comment, and the pictures of this extraordinary tree, I set out to find one.  It took some doing.  Now I have an allee of them that was planted 5 years ago.  Every time I stroll past them, I thank god for Michael Dirr.<br />I also discovered the Metasequoia Glyptostroboides (Dawn Redwood) here.  If anyone reading this can lay their hands on this tree and has room for it - GET IT.<br />Among other extremely useful features are the tree lists included in the back.  He has listed trees by size, fruit, flower - you name it.  The index lists trees both by their botanical name and their common name.<br />I can not begin to tell you how useful his evaluations are.  I have a farm -- 150 acres.  And bit by bit I am filling it with trees -- with Dirr's help. Without him I would be lost.	2002-04-16
US	53039492	R2XNIJL9WM90RC	0801495563	540600120	The Outbreak of the Peloponnesian War (A New History of the Peloponnesian War)	Books	5	44	45	N	N	A tour de force	It is difficult for me to describe the genius that lies behind Kagan's magisterial four-volume history of the Peloponnesian War.  Kagan's command of his subject matter is breath taking.  But the reason that you want this to be THE book you read about the Peloponnesian War is as follows:<br />Kagan provides the single most compelling synthesis of the reasons the war took place together with a beautifully measured study of the participant's motivations.  His technique is brilliant.  First the bare facts are set out. Then Thucydides opinions are canvassed.  There follows a startlingly lucid summary of the major points of view as published by other historians.  Then Kagan offers HIS view.  At the conclusion you slap yourself on the knee and find yourself invariably saying, \\"Well, of COURSE, it's OBVIOUS\\".<br />But, in point of fact, it isn't obvious at all - but Kagan makes it SEEM obvious.  And for that he required, and exhibits, a truly astounding understanding of human nature.<br />I have seen it written that Kagan lapses into un-translated Latin, Greek and German.  I went back to my copies to see if I could find examples of this - and was unable to find more than a handful (if one doesn't count the footnotes - and even there foreign languages are scarce).<br />Kagan's principal thesis in this, the first of the four books, is that the Peloponnesian war was NOT, contrary to Thucydides' opinion, inevitable, but was in fact avoidable up to the last moment.  This thesis is developed with tremendous force of logic.  The prose is fluid, and even limpid.<br />You will need maps.  The first volume contains none.  Though the second volume has a few.  My suggestion is that you have the Landmark Thucydides to hand - it has seemingly THOUSANDS of maps.  But I also recommend the \\"Barrington Atlas of the Greek and Roman World\\" -- a MUST for any person with a classical bent.  I am not sure one needs to have read Thucydides - as some have suggested.  After all, Kagan's object is to write THE comprehensive history of that event.  But this clearly is a university level text.  I read the Landmark Thucydides first - though I am not sure I benefited from it.  You will certainly want to read it afterwards.<br />Kagan's understanding of this ancient conflict prepared him very nicely for an extraordinary book, \\"On the Origins of War and the Preservations of Peace.\\"  If ever there was a MUST READ book for our times, it is that one.  In this book, Kagan develops a thesis on the origins of war and provides a trenchant recipe for the avoidance of war.<br />I rate this book on a par with Ronald Syme's  \\"Roman Revolution\\" (Though HERE is someone guilty of not bothering to translate greek and latin for we plebs!).  You need read NO other modern account.write THE comprehensive history of that event.  But this clearly is a university level text.  I read the Landmark Thucydides first - though I am not sure I benefited from it.  You will certainly want to read it afterwards.<br />Kagan's understanding of this ancient conflict prepared him very nicely for an extraordinary book, \\"On the Origins of War and the Preservations of Peace.\\"  If ever there was a MUST READ book for our times, it is that one.  In this book, Kagan develops a thesis on the origins of war and provides a trenchant recipe for the avoidance of war.<br />I rate this book on a par with Ronald Syme's  \\"Roman Revolution\\" (Though HERE is someone guilty of not bothering to translate greek and latin for we plebs!).  You need read NO other modern account.	2002-04-16
US	53039492	R3A32AHWVTMGY5	0743406117	302105199	Year Zero	Books	5	33	41	N	N	Jeff Long Scores Again!	This is a taut, epic tale that you will read almost in one sitting.  For a review of the plot line, check out the Booklist review or Harriet's review.  I'll confine my remarks to Long's skill as a writer.<br />I have been reading Long's books for years -- he simply doesn't put out enough of them!<br />I first discovered Jeff Long by accident.  He has written two truly brilliant histories of Texas.  The first of these is \\"Duel of Eagles: The Mexican and U.S. Fight for the Alamo\\".  And the second is \\"Empire of Bones\\" (which deals with the events leading up to the defeat of Santa Anna's army at the battle of San Jacinto).  These were brilliantly conceived, researched and executed books.<br />After these two books, Long appears to have transformed himself first into a writer of climbing-based fiction, and then action-based fiction.  His book \\"Angels of Light\\" was his first tentative foray - Stalone's entirely forgettable movie, Cliffhanger, is based on this book.  Read the book - forget the movie.<br />I think Jeff Long came of age as a fiction writer with The Ascent.  I am a climber myself - and so I love good climbing fiction.  And despite quibbles I have seen over this point of accuracy or that point of accuracy, this book remains a climbing CLASSIC.<br />I can recommend ALL of these books.<br />With Year Zero, Long debuts in the so-called \\"speculative fiction\\" world.  And he is peculiarly adapted to thrive here.  Long has a great talent for drawing believable characters.  But more importantly, he has an uncanny ability to make wild plot lines seems entirely plausible.  Long is also not without a sense of humour - he invites us, I think NOT to take everything so seriously.  The outlandish appearance, for example, of rock bands, ballet dancers and symphony orchestras at Los Alamos - well, that's just plain funny.<br />But such is the deftness of his story-telling ability that you are prepared to willingly suspend your belief with every new surprising twist and turn.<br />Long's writing is also smart - he has done his research - there is always a foundation for his speculations.  And for a classical history buff such as myself, there is a delightfully erudite turn to this book.  We find clever, non-pretentious references to Homer and Thucydides among others.r />Long's writing is also smart - he has done his research - there is always a foundation for his speculations.  And for a classical history buff such as myself, there is a delightfully erudite turn to this book.  We find clever, non-pretentious references to Homer and Thucydides among others.	2002-04-16
US	53039492	RY2FNP3NEJKT9	0788789813	669379389	The Fellowship of the Ring (The Lord of the Rings, Book 1)	Books	3	43	53	N	N	A review of the READER -- not the BOOK.	Now, this is probably going to be an unpopular review because people will see the three stars and think, &quot;What, is he out of his mind? The Lord of the Rings is one of the best books ever written&quot;.  And it is.  But this is not a review of the book, it is a review of Rob Inglis' READING of the book.  And the editorial raves not withstanding, I am sorry to say that this is not a reader that EVERYONE will like.  Before I get lynched, here's why I think so.<br />I have listened to HUNDREDS of audio books.  All unabridged.  Inglis falls somewhere in the middle of the pack.  He has a deep voice -- this would not normally be an issue were he reading a historical work.  But Inglis is one of those readers who does &quot;voices&quot;.  NOw some people are genius at this.  For example, the incomparable Frederick Davidson.  But for Inglis, the deep voice is a liability when he tries to pitch it high to do an elf voice or, good heavens, a woman's voice.  The result is very annoying.<br />Also, fans of the Trilogy will know that it is filled with song.  Inglis' rendering of the songs was grating (at times almost embarassing) -- and got my fast forward finger working over-time.  He is over-matched by this, particularly when it comes to Galadriel or Legolas.<br />Next there is the manner, or tone, in which Inglis has chosen to pitch his reading.  He has adopted a wistful, elegiac, far away manner -- it is almost pretentious, I have to say.  And it becomes tedious because he almost never varies it.  He is, as the saying goes, &quot;a bit one paced&quot;.  Now, some people will like his voice and manner, I do not deny this -- because it does, as one of the editorial reviews says, emphasize the fairy tale aspect of the Trilogy.<br />But to me is drains some of the manliness and power from some of the dialogue.  Aragorn, to me the quintessential man of action and mystery, a true hero, comes across as a man obessesed with what has been lost; a man trapped in the past.  Which he clearly isn't.<br />Some examples.  Aragorn and Boromir are virtually indistinguishable.  The Hobbits (apart from Frodo), Sam in particular, are rendered in a country bumpkin voice that is out of all keeping with what I see as the inherent dignity of the Hobbits.  It also serves to underscore Sam as the servant of Frodo, rather than his friend. Legolas ends up with a reedy, strained voice, because Inglis can not get into the higher register.  I was left thinking, &quot;who ever made the rule that Elves had little high voices?&quot;<br />HAVING SAID ALL THAT, this is the ONLY unabridged version.  And as such, falls into the &quot;must have&quot; category.  For all of the foregoing quibbles, Inglis' reading is serviceable and entertaining.  Buy it -- you will enjoy it -- but do not expect the definitive reading -- that awaits us!  Which is an ocassion for celebration I suppose.  Because surely it will come.clearly isn't.<br />Some examples.  Aragorn and Boromir are virtually indistinguishable.  The Hobbits (apart from Frodo), Sam in particular, are rendered in a country bumpkin voice that is out of all keeping with what I see as the inherent dignity of the Hobbits.  It also serves to underscore Sam as the servant of Frodo, rather than his friend. Legolas ends up with a reedy, strained voice, because Inglis can not get into the higher register.  I was left thinking, &quot;who ever made the rule that Elves had little high voices?&quot;<br />HAVING SAID ALL THAT, this is the ONLY unabridged version.  And as such, falls into the &quot;must have&quot; category.  For all of the foregoing quibbles, Inglis' reading is serviceable and entertaining.  Buy it -- you will enjoy it -- but do not expect the definitive reading -- that awaits us!  Which is an ocassion for celebration I suppose.  Because surely it will come.	2002-03-28
US	53039492	R3USDLCJ5PGI1N	0195128192	352408221	Aias (Greek Tragedy in New Translations)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	"A brilliant addition to a distinguished series"	\\"A brilliant addition to a distinguished series\\".  That's what Bernard Knox said, and I couldn't agree more.  I think most of us who love the classics will agree that if Knox says it is good, he can be taken at his word!<br />This translation is by a somewhat unlikely team.  I knew Richard Pevear for his stunning, that is the only word for it, translations of great Russian masterworks such as The Idiot, The Demons, The Brothers Karamazov, Anna Karenina and the Master Margarita.  These superb translations were undertaken with his wife, Larissa Volkonsky, and I urge you to grab one.  They are somewhat controversial, particularly for a generation of readers who grew up with Victorian and Edwardian translations of the Russian masters.  They are very close to the Russian and have an almost breathless immediacy to them.  But the ARE different.  ...P>So why all this talk about the Russians?  Because Pevear (with an able assist from Herbert Golder) has done for the Greeks what he did for the Russians.... but this translations fiery.  I have ALWAYS loved Ajax.  I recently read a version of the Iliad to my three young nephews.  And they each had their favourite. Achilles, Diomedes and Hector.  But they each knew, that in a pinch? when the chips were down? when things get ugly? Who do you want beside you in the phalanx?  That's right.  That big brute Ajax.  Bulwark of the Greeks.  A killing machine.  Taciturn.  Implacable.  \\"Even in death\\", writes Golder in his introduction, \\"in his sublime Homeric moment, Aias is famous for what Longinus called his 'eloquent silence': the refusal of his shade to speak to Odysseus in Hades.\\"  Now you HAVE to love that.<br />And who doesn't secretly admire him for the incident involving Athena.  She took her position alongside him in the Greek line and when he saw her, he blasphemously urged her to move on saying, \\"Go, stand by the rest of the Greeks.  The line won't break where I hold it.\\"  Yo!<br />Sophocles story deals with his death.  And it is in his confrontation with his death that his greatness emerges.  And he is given one of the greatest speeches of antiquity -- and Pevear's translation is breathtaking:<br />\\"Great, unfathomable time<br />brings dark things into the light<br />and buries the bright in darkness.<br />Nothing is too strange, time seizes<br />the most dread oath, the most hardened<br />mind. Even I, whose will<br />was tempered like iron, unbending<br />in action, for a woman's sake<br />am become a woman in my speech.\\"<br />And, later in the same speech,<br />\\"For even the most awesome powers<br />submit to authority: snow-tracked<br />winter yields to the rich growth<br />of summer, dark-vaulted night<br />gives way to the shinning, white-horsed<br />brightness of day, a blast<br />of appalling winds stills the seas's rage,<br />even all-overwhelming sleep<br />binds only to let go.  Then how<br />shall we not learn wise restraint.\\"<br />Oh...my...god.<br />Here's the skinny on this.  Trust me.  This is a GREAT story.  It is a GREAT play.  It is a GREAT translation.  And it is about a GREAT hero.  Golder writes, \\"...for the values of endurance, tragic solitude, and heroic hubris -- the basis of the permanent values of the democratic city -- Aias is the paradigm.\\"<br />...t is in his confrontation with his death that his greatness emerges.  And he is given one of the greatest speeches of antiquity -- and Pevear's translation is breathtaking:<br />\\"Great, unfathomable time<BR>brings dark things into the light<BR>and buries the bright in darkness.<BR>Nothing is too strange, time seizes<BR>the most dread oath, the most hardened<BR>mind. Even I, whose will<BR>was tempered like iron, unbending<BR>in action, for a woman's sake<BR>am become a woman in my speech.\\"<br />And, later in the same speech,<br />\\"For even the most awesome powers<BR>submit to authority: snow-tracked<BR>winter yields to the rich growth<BR>of summer, dark-vaulted night<BR>gives way to the shinning, white-horsed<BR>brightness of day, a blast<BR>of appalling winds stills the seas's rage,<BR>even all-overwhelming sleep<BR>binds only to let go.  Then how<BR>shall we not learn wise restraint.\\"<br />Oh...my...god.<br />Here's the skinny on this.  Trust me.  This is a GREAT story.  It is a GREAT play.  It is a GREAT translation.  And it is about a GREAT hero.  Golder writes, \\"...for the values of endurance, tragic solitude, and heroic hubris -- the basis of the permanent values of the democratic city -- Aias is the paradigm.\\"<br />...	2002-03-28
US	53039492	R33K6Q9S59I5OX	0801821584	253524655	The Grand Strategy of the Roman Empire: From the First Century A.D. to the Third	Books	4	20	25	N	N	A lucid, controversial work on Roman Imperial Strategy	I am just now getting around to re-editing my original review of this marvellous work, because I simply do not feel that the criticisms that have been levelled against Luttwak's book have been adequately addressed.<br />Let's be clear about the criticism.  It has been said elsewhere here that Luttwak's thesis was wrong -- that there was no \\"grand strategy\\".  Accordingly the book is related to trash status and accorded single star reviews.  The principal stick with which Luttwak has been beaten is a book entitled \\"Limits of Empire\\" by Benjamin Isaac, a Professor of Classics in the University of Tel Aviv. I thought it might be therefore illuminating for the public to hear what Isaac himself has to say about Luttwak.<br />In his introduction, he writes, \\"It is a lucid study, but it is based on secondary literature.  It reinterprets interpretations by historians and archaeologists and is a systemisation, not of historical material, but of modern scholarship.  Hence it is based on....apriori assumptions.\\"<br />This in and of itself is fair and accurate, and indeed Professor Isaac's text (which I heartily recommend, by the way) goes on to analyse the primary texts and more careful consider archaeological evidence.  But he has much more to say about Luttwak.<br />Later (page 377), Professor Isaac has THIS to say, \\"Luttwak has described Roman strategy in a systematic manner.  He assumes that there was a coherent system built up with an inner logic and that it is possible to describe the coherence and dynamics of this system.  We can admire his lucid analysis, but we must still ask whether the system analysed did in fact exist.  IF WE DO ASK THIS QUESTION IT IS THANKS TO LUTTWAK'S OWN ADMIRABLE SYNTHESIS [emphasis mine]. However, his central assumption, that their existed a system whose object was to defend and enhance the security of the empire is a hypothesis based on analogies with modern army organisation.  It is not based on an independent analysis of the ancient literary sources or archaeological materials, but derives from a lucid perusal of modern literature, and naturally the result is an approach already implicit in the writings of most specialists on Roman frontiers.\\"<br />I hardly think I need to say any more.  Professor Isaac's respect for Luttwak shines through everything he writes.  Just because the thesis of a book MAY prove ultimately to be wrong, or just because it is superseded as the result of new evidence, does not make the book worthy of a \\"one star\\" review.<br />Luttwak's book is brilliantly and incisively argued. And as has been pointed out elsewhere, it set off a firestorm of almost polemical debate.<br />All right, so Professor Isaac has refuted him. I say, \\"so what\\"? As another reviewer noted, for all we know, Isaac may himself be proved wrong as time and research marches on. Being wrong doesn't, or shouldn't, relegate a writer to the trash heap of literature.<br />I strongly recommend this book to anyone interested in the subject of Roman history. Take what Luttwak says with a grain of salt; and, yes, assuredly, read Isaac's \\"The Limits of Empire\\". I guarantee you that you will thrill to an almost scintillating debate.<br />For my part, I regret that it is hard to fault Isaac's research and conclusions -- and I admit that it is difficult for me to abandon Luttwak's thesis. I ask myself why this is so, and the answer must be, sadly, that I so very much want Luttwak's analysis to be correct!<br />I thank god that people like Luttwak are willing to advance risky, \\"big ideas\\". His work engendered a worthy debate and sparked research that ultimately over-mastered his idea -- And yet there is something in me that is not totally prepared to give up on it -- I wish he would write a second edition!rary sources or archaeological materials, but derives from a lucid perusal of modern literature, and naturally the result is an approach already implicit in the writings of most specialists on Roman frontiers.\\"<br />I hardly think I need to say any more.  Professor Isaac's respect for Luttwak shines through everything he writes.  Just because the thesis of a book MAY prove ultimately to be wrong, or just because it is superseded as the result of new evidence, does not make the book worthy of a \\"one star\\" review.<br />Luttwak's book is brilliantly and incisively argued. And as has been pointed out elsewhere, it set off a firestorm of almost polemical debate. <br />All right, so Professor Isaac has refuted him. I say, \\"so what\\"? As another reviewer noted, for all we know, Isaac may himself be proved wrong as time and research marches on. Being wrong doesn't, or shouldn't, relegate a writer to the trash heap of literature.<br />I strongly recommend this book to anyone interested in the subject of Roman history. Take what Luttwak says with a grain of salt; and, yes, assuredly, read Isaac's \\"The Limits of Empire\\". I guarantee you that you will thrill to an almost scintillating debate.<br />For my part, I regret that it is hard to fault Isaac's research and conclusions -- and I admit that it is difficult for me to abandon Luttwak's thesis. I ask myself why this is so, and the answer must be, sadly, that I so very much want Luttwak's analysis to be correct!<br />I thank god that people like Luttwak are willing to advance risky, \\"big ideas\\". His work engendered a worthy debate and sparked research that ultimately over-mastered his idea -- And yet there is something in me that is not totally prepared to give up on it -- I wish he would write a second edition!	2002-03-12
US	53039492	R254QQE4RTOXUR	0198140266	522202340	Homer on Life and Death (Clarendon Press Paperbacks)	Books	5	57	57	N	N	To read it is to love it.	How this little gem has been so completely overlooked I simply do not understand.  I have to confess that I am as guilty as the next person.  As an inveterate reader of the Iliad in translation and of everything I can get my hands on about the Iliad, I had somehow missed this.  I first saw it obliquely referenced in the New York Review of Books.  I can not even remember what the book being reviewed was.  But i Do recall that Griffin's book was mentioned in a footnote.<br />It took me a couple of weeks to read it -- though it clocks in at barely over 200 pages.  Not because it it tough slogging, but because the ideas are so startling and so ingenious that you have to sit back, savour them, re-read them, and then press on.  I kept my favorite translation of the Iliad to hand (Fagles) and spent hours cross-referencing Griffin and Fagles texts in their respective margins.  Now when I pick up the Iliad in search of a memorable passage I have a note that takes me straight to Griffin's lucid, limip analysis.<br />As a society we do not understand death very well -- and we are not prepared for it.  I first confronted this when my mother died.  I ralized then that nothing I had learned, nothing I had ever read, prepared me properly for the event.  I wish I had read Griffin on the subject before that fateful day.  At one point he writes, \\"...the Iliad is a poem of death rather than of fighting.  The subject of the poem is life and death, constrasted with the greatest possible sharpness.\\"<br />He writes passionately at all times -- and, on ocassion, almost polemically.  But his opinions are always founded on the most careful analysis of the text.<br />Here he is on the value of Greek myth:<br />\\"Greek myth is distinguished from others above all by the dominant position within it of myths about heroes....They illuminate...the potential and limitations of man in the world.  In the noble speeches and tragic insights of a Sarpedon, a Hector, an Achilles, we see both the terrible and unalterable laws of life and death, and also the greatness which man can achieve in facing them.  The loyalty of Penelope, the endurance of Odysseus, the self-sacrifice of Patroclus, even the tragic dignity of the guilty Helen: all show us that amid suffering and disaster human nature can remain noble and almost god-like.\\"<br />Griffin also translates EVERYTHING.  Many of his era, including the magisterial Syme, would hardly have deigned to do this -- assuming that even the lay reader should have a knowledge of Latin or Greek. But not Jasper Griffin.  Thank you Jasper.....<br />If you love the Iliad, you will LOVE Griffin.  I also discovered a reference to this book at the end of \\"Who Killed Homer\\".  Now, depending upon your view of Hanson (I love him) that may either damn or exalt Griffin in your eyes.  But for what it is worth, Hanson listed this little book as one of the ten books on antiquity that MUST be read.  And he is right!!nd unalterable laws of life and death, and also the greatness which man can achieve in facing them.  The loyalty of Penelope, the endurance of Odysseus, the self-sacrifice of Patroclus, even the tragic dignity of the guilty Helen: all show us that amid suffering and disaster human nature can remain noble and almost god-like.\\"<br />Griffin also translates EVERYTHING.  Many of his era, including the magisterial Syme, would hardly have deigned to do this -- assuming that even the lay reader should have a knowledge of Latin or Greek. But not Jasper Griffin.  Thank you Jasper.....<br />If you love the Iliad, you will LOVE Griffin.  I also discovered a reference to this book at the end of \\"Who Killed Homer\\".  Now, depending upon your view of Hanson (I love him) that may either damn or exalt Griffin in your eyes.  But for what it is worth, Hanson listed this little book as one of the ten books on antiquity that MUST be read.  And he is right!!	2002-03-12
US	53039492	R3SP0JGGVA3MJI	0872203522	627065254	Iliad (Hackett Classics)	Books	5	135	148	N	N	A must-have translation	I think I must have read every major translation of the Iliad by now.  They all have something to recommend them.  There are some to which I will never return.  I think I would rate Robert Fagles translation as the best.  All of which will afford some context when I say that Lombardo is a must read.  Enough glowing things have been said here by other reviewers, so I will refrain from commenting over much on the translation per se.<br />What I will say is this.  I SAW Book I of Lombardo's translation enacted on the stage in New York about a year and a half ago.  If EVER one needed a reminder that the first auditors of this tale were listeners and not readers and that the Iliad was composed first and foremost FOR listeners, actually seeing Book I brought to life was it.  It was magnificent.  I had read Lombardo in preparation for the play.  I LOVED it -- the immediacy of it, the currency, the urgency, the sheer page turning pace into which he rendered the Iliad.  But actually seeing it?  It is something I shall never forget.  The audience was actually laughing outloud at certain points -- and we forget, don't we, that there is much humour in the Iliad?  That laughter brought a sense of community.  And it was actually possible, closing your eyes, to imagine yourself transported back in time, listening to a retelling of the Iliad -- so very, very long ago.<br />Traditionalists will no doubt have MAJOR problems with Lombardo.  I consider myself to be reasonably traditional, but I fairly EMBRACED this translation.  But I can imagine many will, like my father, run with horror from lines like:<br />&quot;Now get this straight.  I swear a formal oath:<br />.......<br />When every last Greek desperately misses Achilles,<br />Your remorse won't do any good then,<br />When Hector the man-killer swats you down like flies.<br />And you will eat your heart out<br />Because you failed to honour the best Greek of all.&quot;<br />Or:<br />&quot;I've never seen men like those, and never will,<br />........<br />The strongest men who ever lived on earth, the strongest,<br />And they fought with the strongest, with wild things<br />From the mountains, and beat the daylihts out of them.<br />I was their companion......&quot;<br />But I LOVED it -- I found my heart pounding and my blood racing at points. Buy this book and settle down in your favorite chair for a great read -- oh, and buckle your seat-belt.>........<BR>The strongest men who ever lived on earth, the strongest,<BR>And they fought with the strongest, with wild things<BR>From the mountains, and beat the daylihts out of them.<BR>I was their companion......&quot;<br />But I LOVED it -- I found my heart pounding and my blood racing at points. Buy this book and settle down in your favorite chair for a great read -- oh, and buckle your seat-belt.	2002-02-28
US	53039492	R6MKLDK85GCDT	0198143273	449873849	Tacitus: 2 volumes (Oxford University Press academic monograph reprints)	Books	4	19	20	N	N	More Genius from Syme	This book is not for the faint of heart -- and I hesitated for some time over how to rate this book. One does require a working knowledge of Tacitus' life and of Roman history and traditions. The book was written in the late 1950's when, annoyingly, certain classicists felt that it was beneath them to translate their citations from the original latin. Today we often regard this practice as having the patina of snobbishness and elitism. Again and again one encounters paragraphs where the key thought is embodied (entombed is more like it!)in one of Tactitus' remarks -- but in Latin!<br />This however, is a quibble. There is enough of this book that is readable to render it a vastly worthwhile undertaking. But be prepared! Have a good translation of Tacitus to hand -- together with a classical dictionary, a latin dictionary and Barrington's recently published Atlas of the Ancient World (which, by the way, was one of the most wondrous things to be published in the last few decades).<br />If you are prepared to put the work in, Syme, and Tacitus, will reward you. Victor Davis Hanson referred to The Roman Revolution, Syme's more accessible work, as a work of \\"Tacitean brilliance\\". And there is no question that Tacitus style and wit have rubbed off on Syme.<br />Here is Syme, encapsulating Cicero, on the writing of history:<br />\\"Now the fundamental laws of history, as all men know and concede, are veracity and honesty. But history calls for style and composition. It is not enough to record the events, they must be interpreted and judged, with movement and eloquence in keeping. The orator will supply what is needed.\\"<br />And on the Roman view of the afterlife:<br />\\"The shadowy hope of a shadowy existence did not convince the traditional Roman of the governing order. The sole and solid propect of survival lay in good deeds, with good repute thereafter to posterity. Hence the preoccupation with fame -- sharp, insistent, and dominant. Even philosophers, who impugned the validity of the opinion, could not deny or repel the tempations of glory.\\"<br />Let there be no mistake about it, Syme was one of the most thought-provoking and influential scholars of the last century. His death was a terrible loss. Syme's Tacitus is an excellent study (for it is not a biography)of Tactius, his work and his times. But the road to this book lies through The Roman Revolution -- read that first. If it is to your taste, drive on!lidity of the opinion, could not deny or repel the tempations of glory.\\"<br />Let there be no mistake about it, Syme was one of the most thought-provoking and influential scholars of the last century. His death was a terrible loss. Syme's Tacitus is an excellent study (for it is not a biography)of Tactius, his work and his times. But the road to this book lies through The Roman Revolution -- read that first. If it is to your taste, drive on!	2002-02-28
US	53039492	RS0UQFP9ZCSTQ	0195022726	221226933	Iphigeneia at Aulis (Greek Tragedy in New Translations)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	First rate, modern translation	Finding first rate translations can be a hit and miss affair. However, this it definitely a \\"hit\\". Merwin's translation of Euripides' tragedy is masterful and deserves the glowing reviews it has received here as elsewhere. Readers of this review might be interested to know that it is part of a series called \\"The Greek Tragedy in New Translations\\". And while it is out of print, good used copies are freely available in the Amazon marketplace -- which is where I secured mine.<br />Merwin has rendered a taut, readable version in modern English. And the volume is supplemented with an extremely interesting introduction by George Dimock -- with which I am not sure I entirely agree -- though he does a fine job of fitting the play within the context of the Peloponnesian War.<br />For me, the riveting aspect of this work is the treatment that Achilles gets (Agamemnon, of course, gets a good drubbing, which is satisfying -- but hardly unexpected!). We see him at Aulis, a young man as yet unbowed and unbloodied by the years of warfare at Troy. Dimock makes a rather startling remark when he asseverates, \\"The one thing that his [Achilles] speeches do not contain is simple human feeling such as Paris might entertain: it does not seem to have occurred to him that a young girl is about to die.\\" And he is rather critical of Achilles for this (I might even say that his introduction is suffused with \\"pro-Trojan\\" sympathies). But for me, isn't this rather the whole point? Of course Achilles is like this, it took TEN years of warfare and the death of Patroclus for him to learn (and recall that he ALONE among the Greeks appears to have absorbed the lesson) how to be \\"human\\" -- on this see Bernard Knox's introduction to Robert Fagles' brilliant translation of the Iliad. I prefer the General Editor's view on this when he says, \\"the play enacts the heroic education of Achilles.\\" Well, at least it enacts the very early stages of it!<br />Merwin is a wonderful poet -- and I would also recommend his translation of Dante's Purgatorio and Paradiso. For readers in search of other top notch modern translations, see Stanley Lombardo's truly astonishing translations of the Iliad and the Odyssey. See also Nicholas Pevear's translation of Aias.<br />Here is a sample of Merwin's translation (from the Chorus's reaction to a speech of Agamemnon's):<br />\\"O Cyprian,<br />most beautiful of the goddesses, keep<br />such wild flights from me.<br />Let me know love<br />within reason and desire within<br />marraige, and feel your presence<br />not your rage.<br />The natures of humans<br />are various, and human ways of acting<br />are different,<br />but everyone knows what is right,<br />and teaching<br />inclines them at last to virtue.\\"d his translation of Dante's Purgatorio and Paradiso. For readers in search of other top notch modern translations, see Stanley Lombardo's truly astonishing translations of the Iliad and the Odyssey. See also Nicholas Pevear's translation of Aias.<br />Here is a sample of Merwin's translation (from the Chorus's reaction to a speech of Agamemnon's):<br />\\"O Cyprian,<BR>most beautiful of the goddesses, keep<BR>such wild flights from me.<BR>Let me know love<BR>within reason and desire within<BR>marraige, and feel your presence<BR>not your rage.<BR>The natures of humans<BR>are various, and human ways of acting<BR>are different,<BR>but everyone knows what is right,<BR>and teaching<BR>inclines them at last to virtue.\\"	2002-02-27
US	53039492	RUBIKYHXFMMV5	0500400407	463651177	Noblest Roman Marcus Brutus and His Reputa (Aspects of Greek and Roman Life)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A concise, elegant biography of a great man.	For a man whose name conjurs so much, there is distressingly little written about Marcus Junius Brutus. His famous assassination of Caeser dramatically altered history. This slim volume, which I devoured in one sitting, examines not only Brutus' life, but how his reputation has changed through the ages. I found myself busily underlining many passages and have returned to it on more than one ocassion. Clarke writes clearly and forcefully -- and he loves the Republic. The books lacks a bibliography and the index is rather concise.<br />Having said that I would highly recommend this to any student of the period. Indeed, I wish that the general public might have a better understanding of Brutus. As Cicero remarked of him, \\"I have always loved Marcus Brutus for his fine intellect, the charm of his manners, and his outstanding uprightness and reliability.\\" He had tremendous character, \\"Virtus\\". Clarke writes, \\"For Brutus, freedom meant having no one as master; specifically it meant open government, senatorial debates and annual magistracies, the old institutions of Rome which insured that no one should have too much power.\\"<br />Would that we all knew more of such men. Had he been a better general or more politically shrewd (and here I betray my own republican leanings), history might have been written quite differently, for I am not altogether sure that I subscribe to Sir Ronald Syme's brilliantly articulated thesis that the \\"empire\\" demanded (required?) a Principate and ultimately a monarchy (and I trust that in making this comment, I do justice to Syme's epochal work of genius, The Roman Revolution; likely not!). In this regard, I might also refer readers to Eric Gruen's study, The Last Generation of the Roman Republic.	2002-02-25
