US	53035876	R1O06ST9SVUBPQ	1873668325	263908037	Be Your Best with NLP: Personal Strategies to Help You Achieve Your Full Potential	Books	1	3	3	N	N	NOT VERY GOOD...	This is probably my least favorite NLP book. The only reason that I am giving this book one star is because it manages to regurgitate a small sample of good advice taken from other (better) authors.<br />The author's writing style is simply grating on the nerves, and his arrangement of subjects (he claims that he designed the outline of the book from his own &quot;mind map&quot;) is enough to make one dizzy.<br />What bothered me most about this book though was the author's constant references to supposed &quot;studies&quot; and &quot;facts&quot;. The author does not provide any sort of bibliography or footnotes for his supposed &quot;facts&quot;, and I found many of them to be highly questionable. For example, he claims that a &quot;study&quot; showed that the placebo response is effective over 30% of the time when used on patients. There is NO such study that supports this &quot;fact&quot;, nor can the author point to any.<br />The author also makes some highly questionable claims about how NLP can cure illness. According to him, headaches, back aches and all manner of other ills can be &quot;cured&quot; with a dose of NLP. Poppycock.<br />I feel sorry for anyone who thinks that this book is representative of NLP in general. It is not. There are a number of excellent books written about NLP. This is not one of them.	2004-01-25
US	53035876	R1VW0ILP43EHS3	0425166244	419921016	Mindworks	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	Excellent Intro To NLP	Anne Linden's Mindworks is a bit different than most NLP books I've read so far. For one thing, the book is highly organized, and reads as much like an encyclopedia as anything else. You won't find the author hop-scotching from one subject to the next or throwing things at you out of context. The book is well laid out, and is truly aimed at those with little to no previous knowledge of NLP. It helps you learn the basics from the ground up.<br />My only real complaint about the book is that so much is devoted to theory, and so little is devoted to practical implementation of NLP. You'll find far fewer &quot;exercises&quot; in this book than you will in other NLP volumes.<br />All in all, this book is a great place to start learning about NLP, and is an excellent reference on basic NLP concepts. If you want to put NLP to work for you in a practical manner though, you'll need to look elsewhere.	2004-01-18
US	53035876	R3W16UKE0DNTPO	1885167415	950536398	The Owner's Manual for the Brain: Everyday Applications from Mind-Brain Research	Books	5	49	50	N	N	The Encyclopedia of the Human Mind	Whether you use this book as a reference or read it cover to cover, The Owner's Manual for the Brain is a great book to have around. From describing the most basic fundamentals of how the human brain functions to analyzing the latest research in various fields of psychology, the author presents each topic in an easy to understand manner that is enjoyable to read as it is informative.<br />The best part of this book is that every sub-chapter includes a list of &quot;applications&quot; for what you have just read. This elevates the book from the simple listing of facts to an extremely usable tool. I would dare anyone to read this book and not come away with at least one application that could not vastly improve their life. Time with this book is time well spent.	2004-01-08
US	53035876	R3PFGHNFBZPAI9	0688146198	945829319	NLP: The New Technology of Achievement	Books	5	228	235	N	Y	Great Intro to NLP	This book is a great introduction to the world of Neuro Linguistic Programming, or NLP. It not only includes a primer to bring you up to speed on what NLP is, but explains some of the more advanced techniques and methods of programming. About the only downside of this book is the fact that exercises appear in the middle of most chapters, which tends to cut into the &quot;flow&quot; of reading. Still, the exercises appear in a quite logical sequence, and you get used to it after the first few chapters.<br />Despite its choppy presentation, the book is extremely readable, entertaining and leaves one with a strong understanding of the fundamentls of NLP itself. For those of you who are new to NLP, this is definitely the first book that I would read.	2004-01-06
US	53035876	R2CC9JJAMMCVFP	0918222885	842659780	The Way to Wealth (Little Books of Wisdom)	Books	5	41	44	N	Y	WORDS FOR THE WISE	Benjamin Franklin's words are just as true today as they were 200 years ago. At only 30 pages, this book is full of lessons that seem to have fallen upon deaf ears in today's business world. You will find this volume well worth your time, and will recognize a number of popular sayings that are included therein. Franklin's wit and eloquently simple writing style is as pleasurable to read as it is informative. I highly recommend it.	2003-12-12
US	53035876	R10Q8BZKPANQ8X	0943973198	9348914	Stop Junk Mail Forever	Books	3	13	13	N	Y	NICE LITTLE BOOKLET...	This is a rather tiny &quot;book&quot;, so I will try to sum-up the publication in as small an amount of space as possible.<br />The booklet (far too short to be considered a book) is divided into three parts. The first part is devoted to stopping junk mail. This chapter has some very good advice and interesting information that you probably don't already know. Although some of the information is now outdated, it's still useful, and good reading.<br />The second part is devoted to stopping telemarketing calls. This chapter has become obsoleted by new anti-telemarketing laws, and is of no practical use.<br />The third part is devoted to stopping spam. Legislation making its way through the system right now (in the U.S.) will soon make much of this chapter obsolete as well. Even if it didn't though, the information provided is often completely counterproductive, or at the very least a waste of one's time. The authors clearly are no authorities on the subject. As a network administrator who spends a large bulk of his time fighting spam, I can assure you that the author's methods will only result in your receiving even MORE spam. Seriously, don't even consider following the advice in this chapter!<br />Clearly, this title's value lies in the helpful hints it provides in assisting consumers in getting removed from (postal) mailing lists, and probably more importantly, in educating them on how to keep from being added to these lists in the first place. For that alone, this booklet is worth the price.	2003-11-30
US	53035876	R3P7EQ2WLH0KD7	0782141196	800677947	Linux for Windows Administrators (Mark Minasi Windows Administrator Library)	Books	3	11	13	N	N	Good, Not Great	Most people reviewing this book either love it or hate it. I won't go to quite that extreme, but I do have to say that the book missed the mark in a number of areas.<br />While it is most certainly a matter of editorial discretion, the author seems to have a habit of giving some subjects hardly any mention at all, while providing us with pages of agonizing details on other subjects that most readers will simply want to skip over.<br />Probably the biggest lost opportunity in this book is the author's one sentence devoted to Webmin, which is unquestionably the single most useful tool for Windows admins transitioning over to Linux. There are entire books devoted to Webmin that will have most Windows admins running a Linux server in no time, and without having to learn any of the exhaustive command line skills that the author recommends.<br />For those who DO want to learn Linux from the inside out, there is an amazing lack of depth when it comes to basic command line skills. This book would have been immeasurably more useful if it devoted a chapter (or appendix) to explaining some of the more useful commands. I learned more about grep than I ever wanted to know, but there are dozens of just as useful commands that the author never touched upon. So, if you want to learn the most basic command line skills, you are going to need to buy another book.<br />As some of the other reviewers mentioned, the author comes off as being a bit snobbish when it comes to Linux; quick to complain, slow to compliment. I would rather have had the author use the space reserved for complaints and grumblings with some useful information. It does get a bit old after awhile.<br />That being said, the author does do a good job of keeping your attention and moves from chapter to chapter in a very logical manner. Unlike many Linux books, the chapters in this book do not seem thrown together at random. It's a book that you will most likely want to read from cover to cover, instead of just using as a reference.<br />Despite the author's occasional whining, I really enjoyed the book's flow and progression through various topics. The book must have been very up-to-date at the time, but is starting to show its age. The author bases all of his experience with RedHat, who is now dropping out of the &quot;consumer&quot; market, and only offering a very expensive server version now. Thus, RedHat is not the Linux distribution that most of you will want to start off with.<br />All in all, the book was well worth reading, despite its age and shortcomings. This would be a good first book for you to read if you are a Windows admin trying to learn Linux, but you will definitely need other books on the subject before even considering deploying a Linux server on your network.a reference.<br />Despite the author's occasional whining, I really enjoyed the book's flow and progression through various topics. The book must have been very up-to-date at the time, but is starting to show its age. The author bases all of his experience with RedHat, who is now dropping out of the &quot;consumer&quot; market, and only offering a very expensive server version now. Thus, RedHat is not the Linux distribution that most of you will want to start off with.<br />All in all, the book was well worth reading, despite its age and shortcomings. This would be a good first book for you to read if you are a Windows admin trying to learn Linux, but you will definitely need other books on the subject before even considering deploying a Linux server on your network.	2003-11-28
US	53035876	R3FOQDAYXNCBO0	1566091713	124735176	The Computer Privacy Handbook: A Practical Guide to E-Mail Encryption, Data Protection, and Pgp Privacy Software	Books	3	2	2	N	Y	Once great, now outdated...	The Computer Privacy Handbook was a great book in its time. Unfortunately, that time has long since passed.<br />The manuscript itself was written in 1994. At the rate things move in the computer industry, it did not take long before the material became dated. I think that we all know how quickly computer books can go from being state-of-the-art to obsolete within a matter of months.<br />Probably the best part of the book was its tutorial about how to use PGP (Pretty Good Privacy) for DOS. Unless you are still using a 386, PGP for DOS is probably not the encryption method of choice for you. A large portion of the book is devoted to this tutorial, which is obsolete by anyone's standards.<br />The remainder of the book largely discusses electronic privacy issues. The issues raised range from the paranoid to the practical. Eerily, many of the &quot;possabilities&quot; discussed by Bacard have already come to pass, in regards to the public's erosion of personal privacy in America. Parts of the book may have seemed Orwellian at the time, but are accepted norms in today's society. It really makes the case for Bacard not being so paranoid after all.<br />If you are looking for a historical overview of computer privacy circa 1994, or have a need to run PGP in DOS, this book may very well have some relevance for you. There are still some parts of the book that hold up today, but you will have to skip the majority of the material if you are simply reading for modern day relevance. I'm giving it three stars due to its relevance at the time it was released. Don't take that number literally if you are buying this to use as anything other than as a history book.	2003-11-04
US	53035876	R313J73X8DJGYS	1563824396	560614746	Asset Protection Made E-Z! (Made E-Z Guides)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	To The Point...	Not exactly an exhaustive review of all possible asset protection strategies, but a very good volume for those just starting to research the subject. Very well-written, clear and knowledgable advice. Definitely worth your time.	2003-07-08
US	53035876	R3M2A71PU30RW7	0929765966	875976448	Wealth & Asset Protection Strategies: A Simple and Effective Guide to Keeping Everything You'Ve Earned	Books	2	31	33	N	Y	How To Hide Your Money 101	If you have done any serious reading about asset protection strategies, you will not likely find this book of much use. It is an o.k. primer for those who know absolutely nothing about the subject, but that's about it.<br />The book's small size unfortunately limits it to barely touching upon the many complex, individual topics it addresses. Topics like international trusts, Nevada corporations, LLC's, are all covered, though not in any real depth. It's enough to whet your appetite for more information though, which is probably the main intent of the book, as the author frequently mentions throughout that he provides such services through his own law practice.<br />While I couldn't expect a book this short to provide an in-depth analysis of each topic, what probably bothers me the most about Sears' writing is the fact that he seems to completely ignore the downsides of using these strategies. In fact, reading this book leaves one with the impression that asset protection strategies are a 100% foolproof strategy for safeguarding your money. They aren't.<br />While the author touches upon many excellent ideas for protecting your money in general, you are never given enough information to actually implement any of these strategies, nor given a real understanding of their limitations and dangers. Like they say, a little knowledge is a dangerous thing.<br />While I have no doubt that Mr. Sears is excellent at what he does, I definitely would not recommend making any financial decisions based upon information contained within this book.<br />Lastly, Wealth &amp; Asset Protection Strategies is in desperate need of a proofreader. Since I can't find any information at all on the publisher, I am going to assume that this is some sort of self-published work, anyway.	2003-07-05
US	53035876	R1TYNTJ7YTTYY6	087364834X	606323333	Keep What You Own: Protect Your Money, Property, And Family From Courts, Creditors, And The IRS	Books	4	13	13	N	Y	One of The Best...	I was pleasantly surprised at the quality of Keep What You Own, by Adam Starchild (or whatever his real name is).<br />Although the publishers of this book (Paladin Press) are perhaps best known for their more radical, esoteric titles, Keep What You Own is actually a fairly conservative book when it comes to asset protection advice. It shows you the pros as well as the cons of most methods it covers, which the majority of books on this subject completely fail to do.<br />From Nevada Corporations to Offshore Trusts, most of the well-known methods of asset protection are covered in this book, and usually in fairly good depth. Despite having already read several books on asset protection in the past, Starchild actually brings up some extremely good points that many other books fail to mention. Some of his insights on Nevada Corporations were especially eye opening.<br />Although not an attorney, Starchild has obviously done his homework. There are a few asset protection methods you can tell that he is obviously biased towards (Swiss Annuties for example), but for the most part he provides a very unbiased look at each method of asset protection, and clearly explains why (or why not) it might be the right vehicle for you.<br />On the downside, the book is obviously in need of an update (it was originally published in 1995), although the vast majority of the methods he describes have changed little since the original publication. Also, he seems to pepper the book with references to companies that you have the distinct impression he is financially linked to. Unfortunately, writing under an assumed pen name does not add to his credibility.<br />On the whole though, Keep What You Own is one of the better asset protection books I have read. It would be great to see an updated version of this title, but 95% of it is still applicable to today's laws. Before you buy in to any of the more questionable asset protection schemes that you see advertised, you would do well to get a copy of this book. It reveals the good, the bad, and the ugly, when it comes to asset protection strategies.py of this book. It reveals the good, the bad, and the ugly, when it comes to asset protection strategies.	2003-07-05
US	53035876	R3IIH8NN3BJLV4	1880539446	635528162	Asset Protection Secrets; Book on Asset Protection and Asset Management	Books	5	11	15	N	N	Excellent Book On Asset Protection	Arnold Goldstein's classic book Asset Protection Secrets is probably one of the few asset protection books you will find that actually gives you your money's worth.<br />Goldstein's advice is aimed at those who are not only fighting off creditors, but those who want to legally and legitimately shield their assets from lawsuits, greedy ex-spouses, and other nosey people who should not have the right to go poking into your financial affairs in the first place.<br />His advice is applicable to individuals, businesses, professionals, and those who just want more financial privacy. Probably the best lesson you will learn from this book is that an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. Even if you are happily married, if your business is in great financial shape and you have no legal problems of any type, NOW is the best time to take action. Waiting until trouble comes looking for you is much more expensive in the long run than simply preparing for the worst. If nothing else, following his advice will probably save you a ton on taxes, even if you never have to defend yourself against the courts or creditors.<br />This book is simple to both read and comprehend. Anyone should be able to follow the advice therein. However, keep in mind, most of the techniques in this book should only be used with the assistance of a skilled attorney. Trying to implement most of these suggestions on your own could land you in more trouble than you had in the first place. It will give you a lot of good ideas to discuss with your attorney though.<br />Overall, this is a great book for those looking to find basic info on asset protection and how to deal with creditors and debt.	2003-06-29
US	53035876	R105H7GWUAQBY4	0945032021	840016301	From Panic to Peace of Mind: Overcoming Panic and Agoraphobia	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Excellent Book On Anxiety Disorders	C.B. Scrigner's From Panic To Peace of Mind is truly one of the classics, when it comes to books on anxiety and panic disorders.<br />Dr. Scrigner's book is unlike most that you will find on the subject, in that he approaches anxiety disorders from a largely unbiased point of view. Most books in this category preach purely cognitive methods of combating anxiety disorders and agoraphobia, while others focus on the physiological aspects of the disease. This is one of the few that draws a balance between the two, and acknowledges that no one solution is right for everyone.<br />This is a pretty basic book from most perspectives, so you will not need any prior knowledge of medical jargon in order to keep up. Yet it largely sticks to a clinical overview that is aimed at doctors, patients and others who are affected by anxiety/panic disorders, agoraphobia, obsessive compulsive disorders, and more simple phobias.<br />About the only downside of this book is its limited size and depth. It's a fairly quick read. There is only enough room for a fairly basic discussion of very complicated subjects such as psychopharmacology, cognitive therapy, methods of dealing with stress, etc. Still, it gives an excellent overview of these diseases, and the basic methods of treatment.<br />This is definitely not a book that pretends to &quot;cure&quot; people of phobias or psychological disorders, as many seem to do these days. What it will do is give you a much better understanding of how anxiety disorders &quot;work&quot; and how to most effectively treat them. For anyone with an interest in anxiety or panic disorders, this is an excellent volume to have on your bookshelf.	2003-03-13
US	53035876	R3J81LBBUY6DK1	0966431200	481772027	Ultimate Guide to Mental Toughness: How to Raise Your Motivation, Focus and Confidence Like Pushing a Button	Books	5	67	73	N	Y	Worthwhile Reading	First of all, there are a few books you will find on Amazon.Com that have similar titles to this one. Most of them are written by ex Navy SEALS, or martial arts masters. Daniel Teitelbaum's approach towards mental toughness has nothing in common with them.<br />Rather than shoveling a bunch of macho BS at you, and convincing you that you can use mental discipline in order to achieve some sort of Zen-type existence, Teitelbaum teaches a variety of training techniques that helps the reader to achieve future goals and improve their everyday lives.<br />The information is very scientifically sound, and the book itself is easy to read. It reads more like a training manual than anything else. Don't expect to read through this in one sitting, as the author will have you doing exercises every couple of pages. This is definitely not a book that you can rush through.<br />Teitelbaum not only does a thorough job of teaching each technique, but also teaches you WHY each technique works. Because these techniques rely a lot on \\"personal faith\\", knowing why they work is probably just as important as the techniques themselves.<br />Both the book and Teitelbaum's speaking engagements tend to lean towards teaching these techniques to businesspeople, in order to help them in their careers. However, the techniques work just as well (if not better) for personal goals as well.<br />The book is well-written, full of useful information, and the price is a bargain. I'd definitely recommend it over any of the other \\"mental toughness\\" books you will find.	2003-01-24
US	53035876	R2YOBUD23Y9G3O	0802774482	776445424	67 Ways to Good Sleep: A People's Medical Society Book	Books	3	6	7	N	Y	Do I Hear 68?	67 Ways To Good Sleep is a cute little booklet that contains a number of useful suggestions on how to change your sleeping habits for the better.<br />If you're looking for exhaustive research on sleep disorders, etc., this is definitely not what you are looking for. Most of the sources quoted in the book seem to be culled from a variety of newspapers, magazine articles, self-help books, etc. Not exactly what you would call highly scientific.<br />Still, for the meager cover price, it does provide some useful tips and is probably worth the money for most. At the very least, I was bored enough after reading a few pages in order to get some rest.<br />The quality of this book reminds one of one of those little booklets you find at the check-out aisle at K-Mart or the local grocery store. Don't expect much. Still, I found enough of the information worth reading to give it three stars.<br />If you have not read any tips on how to improve your sleep, this may be an &quot;eye opener&quot; for you. If you have done any amount of research on the subject though, you should probably skip this book, as it covers no new ground, and has little content that one could label as &quot;original&quot;.	2003-01-07
US	53035876	R18LYDMNWBE6X1	189681722X	574755283	Power Posture: The Foundation of Strength	Books	4	18	18	N	Y	Excellent Primer On Posture	Lee Parore's Power Posture is an excellent book covering the basics of how the body is interconnected by a complex system of nerves, muscles, bones, joints, etc.<br />The book was obviously exhaustively researched, and contains tons of diagrams, illustrations and instructions on how to keep your body in good, flexible condition.<br />The title may be slightly misleading to some (to its own detriment), as it really oversimplifies the entire book. This is<br />not a book that tells you how to stand up and walk straight. It emphasizes flexibility through a number of exercises, stretches and routines, and gives you an idea of why these are so important to do.<br />Unfortunately, the book starts to stray a bit towards the end, away from scientific physiology and towards more esoteric principles like &quot;being grounded&quot;, spiritualism, Zen, emotional problems, etc. I call this unfortunate because the author does not make a clear separation between the scientific facts presented in the book and his personal opinions &amp; beliefs. While I may personally agree with him on many of these subjects, his blending of scientific fact and personal opinion really undermines the integrity of the excellent research in other parts of the book.<br />Most readers will either agree with the author's opinions, or be able to guess where fact leaves off and opinion begins though. Thus, I would expect that most of you who are looking for a good book on the subject will find it a useful and enjoyable read. The author's writing style keeps you intrigued and entertained throughout the vast majority of the book, despite the sometimes dry subject material. Well worth reading.	2002-12-27
US	53035876	RIVTUCRYUVOXM	0393317315	861426714	Debt and Bankruptcy (Ask a Lawyer)	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	Excellent, Beginner's Guide To Bankruptcy	Steven D. Strauss' Debt and Bankruptcy is an excellent, if not short, book on the personal bankruptcy process.<br />Because of its small size (around 140 pages, plus appendices), this is obviously not an exhaustive review of the entire legal process of bankruptcy, but manages to pack a lot of very useful and interesting information within its covers. I read the entire book over the course of a weekend, and was very impressed with how easy to read and understand the material was.<br />I have not read many other books on the bankruptcy process, but I certainly did learn quite a few useful things that I did not previously know from reading it.<br />Although the book briefly touches on other forms of bankruptcy, Chapter 7 and Chapter 13 are the two, main types covered. There is a strong bias towards Chapter 7, which is probably the best solution for the majority of consumers seeking debt relief under bankruptcy protection.<br />Strauss' writing style is enjoyable and to the point. Most chapters are fairly brief, and delve right into the subjects at hand. There are some examples sprinkled throughout the book, but they are extremely limited in scope, and usually only a few sentences long. However, the information presented elsewhere makes the law easy enough to understand that examples are largely unnecessary.<br />I certainly enjoyed reading this book, and found it very useful, informative and entertaining. It is certainly well worth the modest cover price. For those of you contemplating personal bankruptcy, this is an excellent resource, especially if you are largely unfamiliar with the bankruptcy process itself. My only complaint is that it could have obviously been much longer and more detailed. Still, for its size, you are definitely getting your money's worth.	2002-12-27
US	53035876	R27HOATJ45DVQJ	0935755780	564485870	C-Corporations: Small Business Start-Up Kit (The Small Business Library)	Books	3	5	6	N	Y	Not Exactly...	The sub-title of this book is \\"Everything necessary to set up a small business C-Corporation in all 50 states and Washington, D.C.\\". That's quite a hefty promise! The book is a good start, but hardly lives up to the claim.<br />At 286 pages, there is hardly room for a lot of coporate philosophy or specifics about starting a business. More than half of the book consists of forms that are found on the CD-ROM, or explanations of specific portions of those forms. I have to classify this as a bare-bones crash-course in how to start a C-Corporation, as most of it contains generic forms that may or may not be applicable to your specific situation.<br />The book includes a CD-ROM, which basically just includes MS Word and Adobe Acrobat versions of forms that are printed inside the book. No other software is included, other than the Acrobat Reader. It is impossible to navigate the files without the assistance of the Table of Contents in the book, as the documents are named in a numerical fashion, and no master list of documents exists on the CD-ROM itself. Basically, the CD-ROM will just save you from re-typing the forms contained in the book, although you will likely need to do a LOT of editing for your specific situation.<br />The book is a bit overpriced..., IMHO. The information and forms are simply way to general to rely upon to start your own corporation, and there is absolutely no state-specific information included, other than an appendix with the addresses of each state regulatory authority in the back of the book.<br />Basically, I would not advise anyone to use this book to start their own C-Corporation. However, it is a good resource for those who know zero about what is involved in forming a C-Corporation, or who want to use the CD-ROM to save them some time in typing. Compared to what most lawyers will charge, it's a bargain. However, if you rely solely upon this book as the basis of how (or why) to form your C-Corporation, you are simply headed for trouble. It's a decent, well-written little reference though, and for that alone I give it three stars.'s a decent, well-written little reference though, and for that alone I give it three stars.	2002-10-28
US	53035876	R2KFZEHYYL96FM	0952614766	943180751	The Biggest Secret: The Book That Will Change the World (Updated Second Edition)	Books	2	23	31	N	Y	Grand Unified Theory of Paranoia	I love a good conspiracy book, especially when there is some basis for fact in them. However, Icke's book goes way too far in trying to tie every single conspiracy theory in existence into a single \\"Grand Unified Theory\\" of paranoia.<br />According to Icke, every single conspiracy (theory) the world has ever known is the responsibility of \\"reptiles of the lower fourth dimension\\". The author never seems to get very specific about the physics involved in reptiles \\"teleporting\\" their way into different dimensions, or how they are able to control our minds from a different plane of existence (something about them grabbing hold of our chakras). Either he is clueless as to the physics of it, or he is part of the conspiracy himself!<br />Icke's book purportedly explains every mystery you can imagine. From Bigfoot to UFO's. From the Bible to Atlantis. From global warming to the death of the dinosaurs. Icke seems to know it all, but provides pitifully little evidence to back up any of his theories. In Icke you must trust!<br />His \\"sources\\" are mostly other books he has written himself, as well as testimony from those under the influence of mind-altering drugs, anonymous Internet hucksters, and the admittedly mentally ill. According to Icke \\"science\\" (he loves to put \\"quotes\\" around EVERYTHING) is meaningless, and witchcraft is the preferable method of proving theories. Whatever.<br />Out of the 500+ pages in his book, I can buy maybe 4 to 5 of his conspiracy theories, and many of them have been much better documented in other works. The author's lack of research and basic writing skills makes the reader long for a book with an actual editor (none to be found here).<br />Probably the most telling quote from the book comes from its publishers. In the back of the publication it states, \\"As a small publishing operation, created solely to publish material that no one else will touch, we do not have the resources of a major publishing company.\\"<br />Little things like editors, proofreaders, sane authors, etc. After reading the book, you will find out why no other publisher will \\"touch\\" it! For the money, you can do a lot better. Entertaining paranoia, but not worth the money.<br />BTW, towards the end of the book, Icke goes on to claim that not only are reptiles from the lower fourth dimension controlling our minds, but that some of those reptiles are being controlled by other beings from the lower FIFTH dimension! Where does it all end?!!?<br />These reptiles are apparently so incompetent that they haven't been able to wrest control from us mere three dimensional beings in their thousands of years of human intervention. Even Icke doesn't believe that they will ever take over the planet. So where's the problem?!!? If I had my choice between the world being run by lizards, or by David Icke, I'd side with the reptiles. Pass the flies...rs, proofreaders, sane authors, etc. After reading the book, you will find out why no other publisher will \\"touch\\" it! For the money, you can do a lot better. Entertaining paranoia, but not worth the money. <br />BTW, towards the end of the book, Icke goes on to claim that not only are reptiles from the lower fourth dimension controlling our minds, but that some of those reptiles are being controlled by other beings from the lower FIFTH dimension! Where does it all end?!!? <br />These reptiles are apparently so incompetent that they haven't been able to wrest control from us mere three dimensional beings in their thousands of years of human intervention. Even Icke doesn't believe that they will ever take over the planet. So where's the problem?!!? If I had my choice between the world being run by lizards, or by David Icke, I'd side with the reptiles. Pass the flies...	2002-09-14
US	53035876	R3HMS6GLKVNM9N	0130649074	401808319	Essential Guide to Telecommunications, The (3rd Edition) (Essential Guides (Prentice Hall))	Books	5	8	12	N	N	Great Overview Of Telecom Technology	The Essential Guide to Telecommunications is probably one of the most well written and useful telecom books you will find..<br />Annabel Z. Dodd does a great job in capturing a snapshot of the current telecom industry, in all of its different flavors. You will find technical overviews of numerous telecom technologies and transport methods. These include business telephone systems, circuit switching, local and long distance networks, cable, wireless, cellular and PCS, paging, Voice Over IP, satellites, broadband services, DSL, T-1's, ISDN, ATM, and much, much more.<br />Dodd's writing is understandable and enjoyable to read. Even those with little or no technical knowledge should be able to understand the text. The author seems to assume that the reader has only a minimal amount of technical knowledge, but does know something about the telecom industry in general. This is the perfect book for telecom salespeople who want to learn more about the products and services they are selling, or for those who just want to keep up-to-date on the latest in telecom technology.<br />This book not only gives you explanations of how various telecom technologies work, but compares them side-by-side from both technical and practical (business) points of view.<br />Where and when does using a wireless network make sense? What type of fiber offers the most capacity? How many T-1's are in a T-3? You will find the answer to all of these questions and more in The Essential Guide to Telecommunications. I highly recommend it.	2002-09-09
US	53035876	R1QH7G787A9378	0671021311	397995807	Get a Life!	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Shatner Is Hilarious!	Even if you have no interest in Star Trek, you will probably love this book.<br />Shatner relates numerous, hilarious accounts of &quot;close encounters&quot; with Trek fans. He discusses his original loathing of Star Trek conventions, and his eventual understanding of what makes the Star Trek phenomenon the success it has become.<br />Most of all, this book is funny. Tons of humorous stories and anecdotes, most of them at the expense of Shatner himself. I don't see how anyone could fail to enjoy this book.	2002-09-08
US	53035876	R211ISE21D4TXP	1582750084	587056550	How To Shop For A Cell Phone: One Quick, Easy Read Could Save You Thousands	Books	3	2	2	N	Y	Cartoonish Look At Cellular...	This book is quite a bit different than most of the telecom books I have read. You should probably rely more on this review than you do its three star rating, since I really had a difficult time determining just how many stars to give it. It could have been given five stars, it could have been given just one. It really is a matter of perspective. I'll explain later.<br />How to Shop for a Cell Phone is a very short (40 pages) home-spun look at buying cell phone service. Despite the book's title, it is really more about buying cell phone service, than about buying an actual cell phone.<br />The reason why this book is so difficult to rate is because it is aimed at a completely different audience than the average telecom book is. It is aimed at complete telecom novices. It's really more of a consumer education booklet than a book about cell phones, so please don't get the impression that you will learn anything new about wireless service here. You won't, unless you know next to nothing about shopping for cell phone service.<br />For what the book tries to be, it does a good job. It is aimed at educating consumers that have never bought a cellphone before. It uses very short chapters (chapters are often less than a page in length) in order to explain general industry terms and answer questions that most first time wireless buyers have.<br />The book certainly isn't thorough in its explanations of technology. My biggest criticism of the book is that it seems to (accidentally, I'm sure) \\"talk down\\" to consumers. The book really looks like it is aimed more at children than adults, although few kids buy their own wireless plans. The entire volume is filled with cartoons of \\"Herbie the Cell Phone,\\" a cutesy little character that introduces each chapter. It makes the whole book rather lighthearted, which just strikes me as sort of odd for a telecom book, for some reason. Maybe I am just in a grumpy mood today though.<br />Of course, it can be said that consumers don't have much of an attention span, and don't WANT to read any complicated, technical details. Since this book is actually aimed at consumers, only those involved in telecom will likely have the same (above) criticisms of the book that I do. Consumers may love the book for its simplicity. It seems to have garnered quite a few positive reviews from consumers, so I'm guessing that it does a good job at reaching its target audience.<br />So, why should you buy this book? If you are involved with the telecom industry already, you will not learn anything new here. It may make a very good book to have in your office, lobby, etc. for consumers to read while they are at your place of business, especially if you are in the wireless business. If you are a wireless agent or carrier, this may make a great book to distribute to potential residential clients. Donating this book to your local public library, schools, etc. would probably also win you some customers. It is very consumer friendly, and largely unbiased.<br />If you are a wireless dealer, it is worth picking up a copy to have around your office. You may even think of ordering copies for each of your sales locations. At [price], it really is not much of a bargain (for 40 pages), but it has few competitors.<br />Bottom line? If you know absolutely NOTHING about wireless service and plans, this book may be worth [price], as you will find good information and largely unbiased advice. Wireless dealers may find it a good consumer education tool. It seems to be slightly slanted towards supporting wireless agents, rather than superstores and carrier offices, so you may find this a good PR piece. Telecom people will learn nothing new from it, so they should pass on the title. The book accomplishes its primary goal though; consumer education.ave much of an attention span, and don't WANT to read any complicated, technical details. Since this book is actually aimed at consumers, only those involved in telecom will likely have the same (above) criticisms of the book that I do. Consumers may love the book for its simplicity. It seems to have garnered quite a few positive reviews from consumers, so I'm guessing that it does a good job at reaching its target audience. <br />So, why should you buy this book? If you are involved with the telecom industry already, you will not learn anything new here. It may make a very good book to have in your office, lobby, etc. for consumers to read while they are at your place of business, especially if you are in the wireless business. If you are a wireless agent or carrier, this may make a great book to distribute to potential residential clients. Donating this book to your local public library, schools, etc. would probably also win you some customers. It is very consumer friendly, and largely unbiased. <br />If you are a wireless dealer, it is worth picking up a copy to have around your office. You may even think of ordering copies for each of your sales locations. At [price], it really is not much of a bargain (for 40 pages), but it has few competitors. <br />Bottom line? If you know absolutely NOTHING about wireless service and plans, this book may be worth [price], as you will find good information and largely unbiased advice. Wireless dealers may find it a good consumer education tool. It seems to be slightly slanted towards supporting wireless agents, rather than superstores and carrier offices, so you may find this a good PR piece. Telecom people will learn nothing new from it, so they should pass on the title. The book accomplishes its primary goal though; consumer education.	2002-09-08
US	53035876	R3QDVITSDKMP0J	1578201047	134367052	Newton's Telecom Dictionary: The Authoritative Resource for Telecommunications, Networking, the Internet and Information Technology (18th Edition)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Simply The Best	I'm not sure what more can be said in praise of Harry Newton's Telecom Dictionary, but I'll try.<br />This oversized book is a whopping 859 pages. I don't want to even guess at what it weighs in at. It really is more of a telecom encyclopedia than a dictionary, and goes into extensive detail describing many words, phrases, acronyms and concepts. Many of the definitions take up an entire page, or more. It is absolutely crammed with useful information.<br />As if being the largest telecom dictionary isn't enough, Harry packs the book with his own style of telecom humor and wit. It's probably the only dictionary you will find that will make you laugh out loud. Harry is the premiere comedian of the telecom industry, and provides the only dictionary in the world that you will be tempted to read from cover to cover. Harry's writing style is uniquely his, and actually makes learning boring telecom definitions a fun experience.<br />Besides general telecom definitions, you will also find many terms relating to computers, computer telephony, the Internet, investing, electronics and more. An amazing accomplishment. You will not only understand what a word means when you read the definition, but will likely understand the concept behind it as well. This book goes well beyond the definitions provided in any other dictionary of its type. No other dictionary in the telecom, computing or electronics industries comes anywhere close to Harry Newton's Telecom Dictionary in either scope or depth.<br />The book is currently in its 18th edition, and is still going strong. It has three brand-new sections: 119 Best Money-Saving Tips: How to Save on Telecom, PC and Internet Expenses, Hot and New in Telecom: Best Ideas, Products and Industry Directions, and Disaster Planning: How to Maximize the Reliability of Your Telecom Network. This book truly belongs on the bookshelf of everyone in the telecom industry. It's worth every penny, and is pound-for-pound the best telecom book I have ever read.r read.	2002-09-08
US	53035876	R3DFT733P0GTRY	0915811812	381791390	Diet for a New America	Books	5	9	12	N	N	This Book Will Change Your Life!	Next to The Bible, this book has probably affected my life more than anything else I have ever read.<br />This has to be one of the best, most well-researched, yet practical books on health and nutrition ever written. I'll warn you though: it's not for the squeamish.<br />Diet For a New America takes a hard look at how food is produced in this country. It mainly focuses on how meat, eggs, poultry and dairy products are made. The awful truth about what is REALLY in your food is shocking, saddening and downright gross! Literally every single person I know that has read this book has either become a vegetarian, or has drastically reduced their intake of meat, as a direct result of reading it.<br />I have cut down on my own consumption of certain foods by about 99% as a result of what I have read in Diet For A New America. It has greatly improved my health and overall outlook on life. If this book doesn't scare you straight concerning your eating habits, nothing will.<br />Read this book and you will literally never be the same. I guarantee it. How many books can you say THAT about?	2002-09-08
US	53035876	R2LHG75PXTOEAZ	0761521763	902595541	Inside Network Marketing	Books	3	12	14	N	Y	Worth A Look...	I had a difficult time reading this book. About 50% of the book made complete sense, while the other 50% seemed to be little more than the author making excuses for the MLM industry as a whole.<br />The author is certainly not unbiased. He is 100% pro-MLM, but at least he makes no attempt to hide that from the reader. As far as Clemments is concerned, not only should regulation be loosened on the MLM industry, but illegal pyramid schemes should be legalized as well. I kid you not!<br />Despite the fact that the author has some sometimes left-field opinions, the book actually has some really good information in it. Inside Network Marketing was not really written as an original piece of work, but is a collection of articles and essays that Clements wrote for various MLM publications. Despite that fact, it does its job of informing the reader of many facets of the MLM industry.<br />If you are just starting out in MLM, have been involved for awhile, or are just considering trying it out, this is a nice book to have. The author lays out some of the most common mistakes that marketers and MLM organizations make, and gives plenty of examples of MLMs that have succeeded and failed. This is not a book of mindless motivation, but of background and research on the MLM industry.<br />About the biggest problems I have with the book are the author's unconventional personal wisdom and numerous typographical and spelling errors. Couple that with the fact that it isn't really written as a book, but as a loose collection of articles, and you end up getting a volume that is almost painful to read in one sitting. It is best read in small pieces, rather than as its disjointed whole.<br />Still, the raw information contained within makes it well worth reading, and its low price makes it well worth buying. A good addition to your bookshelf, if you want to learn more about multilevel marketing.	2002-09-08
US	53035876	R2Q11X28GAM11A	0807014230	397623101	Walden: Lessons for the New Millennium	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Classic... And For Good Reason	Walden is one of the most classic examples of American literature. In his book, Thoreau describes his break from 19th century &quot;civilization&quot;, and his experiment at surviving alone in the woods near Walden Pond.<br />Thoreau survives on a bare minimum of money, food and &quot;necessities&quot;. Along the way, he discovers how fragile our environment really is (even in the 19th century) and becomes one of the nation's first environmentalists.<br />Walden is an absolute classic. It may have been written over 100 years ago, but its content seems more pertinent today than ever before. It is perhaps even more pertinent today than at the time it was originally written. If you are looking for a book to help you understand the fragile balance of both nature and humanity, this one is a must. It certainly puts one's life into perspecive.	2002-09-08
US	53035876	R1B05IMA3Q4O1I	0395661145	550897847	Smart Exercise: Burning Fat, Getting Fit	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Smart Book - Smart Author	Covert Bailey is a master at making physiology easy to understand for the average person. If you are looking to improve your health and get into better shape, then you should have this title on your bookshelf. It does a great job of helping you to understand what works and what doesn't.<br />Much like Bill Phillip's book Body For Life, this book stresses that exercise is the key to reducing fat and improving overall health. It explains why diet alone won't help you to lose weight permanently, and what the benefits of cardiovascular exercise are.<br />When you finish reading this book, you will have a basic understanding of how the human body works, what makes people gain weight, how muscle is formed, how fat is formed and how to take it off permanently. Medical techno-babble is translated into terms that absolutely anyone can understand. His humor and amusing metaphors make for an enjoyable reading experience as well.<br />...This book is worth way more than it sells for. It is packed with useful information, good science and great advice.	2002-09-08
US	53035876	R3T3KDL6TAL2LO	0962484059	332355107	Optimum Sports Nutrition: Your Competitive Edge	Books	5	6	8	N	N	THE Sports Nutrition Bible	For those of you who are looking to push your health and sports performance to the extreme, this book stands alone as the best in its field.<br /><br />Dr. Michael Colgan is probably the most well-respected writer and researcher in sports nutrition today, and this book has become the &quot;bible&quot; of the sports nutrition industry. Some of today's most elite athletes, bodybuilders and celebrities have used this book's advice to help them achieve incredible gains in performance and physical appearance.<br />You don't have to be an elite athlete or celebrity to benefit from this book though. It contains a wealth of information on nutrition, diet and how they affect your health. It covers practically every vitamin, mineral, amino acid, fad health food and sports supplement you can think of, and explains the benefit (or lack thereof) of each.<br />While many clinical terms are used in the book, his advice is still understandable for the average person. A true classic of its time.	2002-09-08
US	53035876	R2K2YD6E9FW977	0671865412	543869927	Sign and the Seal: The Quest for the Lost Ark of the Covenant	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Graham Hancock Rocks!	One of my favorite books all-time books, from one of my favorite authors. In this true-life Indiana Jones adventure, Graham Hancock travels the world in search of the Lost Ark of the Covenant. Years of research went into this book, and it shows.<br />Hancock combines the results of his fascinating research with tales of his travels to uncover the mystery of the Ark's final resting place. Also included are numerous photographs and sketches discovered during his research and travels. It really is an exciting, sometimes nail-biting, true-life adventure.<br />Even if you have no interest in religion or archaeology, Hancock's writing will entertain and intrigue you. A tough book to put down.	2002-09-08
US	53035876	R30KSG4CMMIML3	1558505865	201003268	How to Incorporate and Start a Business in California (How to Incorporate and Start a Business Series)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Off To A Good Start...	If you are clueless as to how to start a corporation in the State of California, this book is a great place to begin.<br />A few things about the title of the book are slightly misleading, which I will get out of the way up-front. First of all, this book in no way encourages you to start a California corporation on your own. This is not a do-it-youself kit that walks you through the process of forming a corporation. Rather, it is largely aimed at helping you to decide what type of business entity is appropriate for your company, and how to get started. It gives comparisons between C-Corporations, S-Corprations, LLCs, sole-proprietorships, partnerships, etc. It comes to the author's slightly biased (but correct) conclusion that all but corporations are inappropriate for most business use.<br />Another problem with the title, but which is more of an oddity than a real issue, is that the cover and title refer to forming a corporation as &quot;A Simple 9-Part Program&quot;. Once you get the actual book though, you will find that the cover and title vary slightly from what is advertised. It is actually &quot;A Simple 6-Part Program&quot;! I am not sure what happened to the 3 other &quot;simple parts&quot;, but they somehow disapperared between the time I ordered the book, and the time I received it! Odd, but unimportant.<br />One other point, there is not a great deal of information in this book specific to the State of California. Most of it is more general in nature concerning corporations. Also, some of the info is slightly dated, as it was published in 1998. The reference section definitely could stand to be updated with website addresses, rather than just mailing addresses and phone numbers. The vast majority of general information still applies though, and has not changed since the time this book was initially written.<br />The author of this book is a lawyer, and urges you to go through one when starting your California Corporation. For anyone even considering doing something as foolish as filing to become a corporation on their own, this book will set them straight. The book does help you with may items that you would likely have to pay an attorney extra for though, such as providing templates for many forms, and answering many questions that would cost you big bucks to get your attorney to answer. All in all, it is an excellent value, and will save you quite a bit of time and effort when it comes to finding answers to simple questions as to how to get started. Although you will not really be able to run a corporation after reading this book, at least you know exactly what you are up against, and where to get started. The author's writing style is excellent, and the book was enjoyable enough to read, for such a relatively dull subject.ng something as foolish as filing to become a corporation on their own, this book will set them straight. The book does help you with may items that you would likely have to pay an attorney extra for though, such as providing templates for many forms, and answering many questions that would cost you big bucks to get your attorney to answer. All in all, it is an excellent value, and will save you quite a bit of time and effort when it comes to finding answers to simple questions as to how to get started. Although you will not really be able to run a corporation after reading this book, at least you know exactly what you are up against, and where to get started. The author's writing style is excellent, and the book was enjoyable enough to read, for such a relatively dull subject.	2002-09-08
US	53035876	R3MZSETF2I67IY	0743215362	869948861	Tesla: Man Out of Time	Books	5	113	135	N	N	THE Definitive Tesla Biography	The best biography written on one of the most amazing men of the 20th century, or perhaps of all-time.<br /><br />Nikola Tesla was one of the world's greatest inventors, and definitely its most mysterious. To say that Telsa was ahead of his time is putting it rather mildly. Most of his inventions were so advanced that the public had a difficult time grasping just how important they really were.<br /><br />Although Marconi is often credited with the invention of radio, the real credit goes entirely to Tesla. A long-running battle between the two ended when American courts essentially invalidated Marconi's radio patent, and awarded credit for the invention to Nikola Telsla.<br /><br />In addition to radio, Tesla also invented Alternating Current (AC), which is the form of electricity used to deliver power to most homes and businesses on earth. He also patented hundreds of other inventions, many of which are in use today. Others are yet to be understood by modern scientists.<br /><br />Probably just as fascinating as Tesla's inventions was Telsa himself though. He was the original, real-life \\"mad scientist\\", and often discussed his invention of the \\"death ray\\" with the popular press. The world has never seen an inventor the likes of Nikola Tesla, and may never see one again. This book is a fascinating look at an amazing individual.	2002-09-08
US	53035876	R1S9C0TV5OUS90	0964879514	586689717	False Profits: Seeking Financial and Spiritual Deliverance in Multi-Level Marketing       and Pyramid Schemes	Books	4	72	78	N	Y	Approaches MLM In A New Light...	False Profits takes a fascinating look at the world of illegal pyramids and multilevel marketing. The book approaches MLM and the MLM industry like no other book I have read. Instead of explaining it from a pure business point of view, it explains it from a psychological, spiritual, ethical and social point of view.<br />Make no mistake, the author of this book loathes MLM. As far as he is concerned, there is little distinction between most MLMs and pyramid schemes, other than the fact that the latter are illegal. Even if you are pro-MLM though, you must admit that many of his observations are correct, and that the MLM industry in general has a long way to go before it reaches any level of acceptance in our society.<br />My favorite aspect of the book concerns its look at the psychology of many multilevel marketers and get-rich-quick schemers. It focuses on the guilt trips that these people lay on their own friends and family, their compromise of integrity and interpersonal relationships for the sake of greed, their deception of unsuspecting strangers, and the overemphasis on materialism that has made many of these people morally bankrupt.<br />Of course, not all MLM participants behave like this. These are largely the actions of \\"MLM junkies\\" and hard-core recruiters. Unfortunately, MLM companies and the industry itself often encourage this type of behavior amongst their reps, which has helped to give the MLM industry a black eye over the years and made multilevel marketers looked upon as people to avoid. Hopefully, by recognizing these ugly traits, you can avoid becoming one of these people.<br />About the only downside of this book is its occasional delve into spiritual and deeply philosophical theories of how MLMs and cults operate. While I have seen many MLMs that resemble cults, and many multilevel marketers that resemble little more than brainwashed zombies, I think that the author's view of all MLMs being tied (somehow) into the new age movement is a bit of a stretch. Not all people get involved with MLM for the same reason, and not all multilevel marketers become blathering idiots. Many do, but certainly not all of them.<br />Despite the author's occasional forays into the esoteric, the book is quite enjoyable to read. It is obviously very well researched and the culmination of many years of hard work. Although it may go a bit far at times, I think that it should be read by anyone contemplating getting involved in the world of multilevel marketing. It will really make you question EXACTLY why you are getting involved, and whether your involvement is for the right reasons.<br />Unethical multilevel marketers will absolutely HATE this book. Those involved in blatant pyramids and get-rich-quick schemes will probably want to strangle the author, since he will likely expose them for the shallow con-artists they are. Ethical multilevel marketers will learn how to avoid the pitfalls of becoming a participant in these types of schemes, and the book's lessons will serve as a reminder of how NOT to do business.<br />Fitzpatrick explains exactly how illegal pyramids work, and exposes many MLMs for what they really are. After reading this book, you should be able to tell the difference between a quasi-pyramid and a legitimate business opportunity. You should also come away with a strong sense of what is ethical and right, and what is not. Ethics seems to be a dirty word to many in the MLM industry, but it shouldn't be. Read this book, and you will likely discover much about MLM, and yourself, that you did not already know.of a stretch. Not all people get involved with MLM for the same reason, and not all multilevel marketers become blathering idiots. Many do, but certainly not all of them. <br />Despite the author's occasional forays into the esoteric, the book is quite enjoyable to read. It is obviously very well researched and the culmination of many years of hard work. Although it may go a bit far at times, I think that it should be read by anyone contemplating getting involved in the world of multilevel marketing. It will really make you question EXACTLY why you are getting involved, and whether your involvement is for the right reasons. <br />Unethical multilevel marketers will absolutely HATE this book. Those involved in blatant pyramids and get-rich-quick schemes will probably want to strangle the author, since he will likely expose them for the shallow con-artists they are. Ethical multilevel marketers will learn how to avoid the pitfalls of becoming a participant in these types of schemes, and the book's lessons will serve as a reminder of how NOT to do business. <br />Fitzpatrick explains exactly how illegal pyramids work, and exposes many MLMs for what they really are. After reading this book, you should be able to tell the difference between a quasi-pyramid and a legitimate business opportunity. You should also come away with a strong sense of what is ethical and right, and what is not. Ethics seems to be a dirty word to many in the MLM industry, but it shouldn't be. Read this book, and you will likely discover much about MLM, and yourself, that you did not already know.	2002-09-08
US	53035876	R3AN4QTN9QRE4D	0060193395	744363528	Body for Life: 12 Weeks to Mental and Physical Strength	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	THE Health and Fitness Book	One of my all-time favorites. Bill Phillips lays out a no-nonsense guide to help anyone improve their life and health. A good mix of science and motivation. Plenty of information to help you understand why diets don't work, and why you must combine sensible eating with exercise in order to achieve optimum health.<br />If this book doesn't make you want to change your lifestyle for the better, nothing will, short of a heart attack. You really can achieve lasting results in as little as six weeks by sticking to this plan, and it really isn't that difficult.<br />Also included are a number of case studies and examples of ordinary people who dramatically improved their health in only a few short weeks. Unlike many \\"new age\\" diet books and high-protein diet gurus, Phillips stresses that you must exercise regularly. Bodybuilding and strength training are favored, and this best-selling book has finally helped to bring those fitness concepts into the mainstream. If you want to change your life for the better, this is a good book to start with.	2002-09-08
US	53035876	R3NRU7CA26M8LS	0394823370	268187306	The Lorax (Classic Seuss)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Every Parent Should Buy This...	My favorite childhood book. It actually helped to develop many of my own attitudes towards the environment and big business. It can teach any child (or open-minded adult) a thing or two about how we should not waste or over-exploit the earth's resources.<br /><br />Dr. Seuss sets an excellent example for children in this book, and it is full of important lessons. If only today's books for children were written this well, or had as much common sense. It belongs on the bookshelf of every child.	2002-09-08
US	53035876	R1SJY417S9QG7Y	076151273X	625304670	Building a Successful Network Marketing Company: The Systems, the Products, and the Know-How You Need to Launch or Enhance a Successful MLM Company	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Great MLM Business Book...	This is probably the best book I have read on the multilevel marketing industry to date. Although small in size, it is absolutely packed with valuable information.<br />Despite the title's name, this book is valuable to everyone who is involved in MLM, not just those contemplating starting their own MLM company. Its straightforward writing style and well researched text are a refreshing change from the many mindless motivational books available in the MLM industry today.<br />Although the book is pro-MLM in general, it does not gloss over any aspects of the industry, or try to sell it as a get-rich-quick panacea. It mainly seems to be aimed at businesspeople new to the industry, who are trying to understand it for the very first time. It's not written for &quot;MLM junkies&quot;, but for professionals who actually want to learn the real ins and outs of the business. An informative background of MLM's history is included, as is a look at what differentiates MLM's from traditional business models.<br />Probably the most fascinating aspect of the book is the insider's view it gives on how MLM's are formed. It lays-out the requirements for an MLM to be successful, as well as explain the elements that all (successful) MLMs have in common. It practically gives you a blueprint of how all MLM's are formed, and how they are successfully run. This isn't the type of information you will find in typical MLM books.<br />Other valuable parts of the book include a look at the legalities of MLM, most common mistakes made by MLMs, structuring the sales organization, compensation plans, product selection and more.<br />If you buy only one book on multilevel marketing, this should be it. It is well written, well researched and contains a treasure trove of valuable information.	2002-09-08
US	53035876	R1LF9LHS4O89WB	0962311103	253090720	Earth Food Spirulina: How This Remarkable Blue-Green Algae Can Transform Your Health and Our Planet	Books	5	23	23	N	N	A Visionary Look At Our Food Choices	Robert Henrickson is the founder and President of Earthrise Farms, one of the world's largest growers of spirulina.<br />So, what is spirulina, and why is it important? Sprirulina is really an amazing whole food that can be grown in almost any climate. People can survive on little more than spirulina alone, due to its high concentration of vitamins, minerals and protein. It has gained popularity in recent years, and has been touted as one of nature's most perfect &quot;whole foods&quot;.<br />That alone would probably not be enough to pique my interest though. The most exciting part about this food is that its recent &quot;discovery&quot; by modern man could help to ease or eliminate food shortages around the world. It is an extremely nutritious whole food that takes up minimal space to grow and store, and results in absolutely no soil erosion or damage to the environment. No pesticides or chemicals are necessary to grow it, and cultivation has been successful in a variety of third-world countries.<br />In this book, Henrickson not only gives the reader a mountain of information on the food itself, but outlines his vision on how this whole food could someday help to feed millions of hungry people across our planet, as well as save our environment in the process. It's nice to know that someone is trying to use science to change our planet for the better.	2002-09-08
US	53035876	R1XMDY4IUK6RP7	0062516590	943614953	The Legacy of Luna: The Story of a Tree, a Woman and the Struggle to Save the Redwoods	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Inspirational and Educational	The amazing story of a young woman who spent two years of her life living in a tree, in order to help save the old growth forests near my home town in Humboldt County, CA.<br />Before I read this book, I had thought of her ordeal as more of a publicity stunt than anything else. After reading of the hardships she endured, and the tone of her personal convictions though, it became quite clear that this was no &quot;stunt&quot;.<br />Whether you agree with her stance on the environment or not, you have to respect her conviction for her personal beliefs. This story sheds some light on how our youth are using passive activism to help save our planet.<br />The book is remnicient of Thoreau's Walden in many ways. While it certainly is not be on the literary level of Walden, it definitely is a refreshing change from the many books of today's &quot;me&quot; generation.	2002-09-08
US	53035876	R9XVDIVJ9NDRU	0142000086	551860371	Moby-Dick: or, The Whale (Penguin Classics Deluxe Edition)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Timeless Classic	What more need be said about this classic of American literature?<br />Melville's classic tale of Moby Dick is so fantastic on so many levels. His writing style is unique and fun to read. The story itself is full of poignant metaphors and hidden meanings. Even if you don't understand the philosophical undertones of the book, you will love the classic story of Ahab and his search for the great white whale.<br />Really, fiction doesn't get much better than this. If you haven't read Moby Dick, you are really missing out. Fascinating, exciting, entertaining and moving. This is a book that will never go out of style.	2002-09-08
US	53035876	R7CXSFC35B9NK	1885223897	455168127	Secrets of a Telephone Psychic	Books	4	15	16	N	Y	Fun, Informative Book...	This title barely qualifies as a \\"telecom book\\", but sounded amusing enough, so thought that I would give it a try. I'm glad that I did.<br />Secrets of a Telephone Psychic turned out to be an amusing look inside the world of telephone psychics. Written by a veteran telephone \\"psychic\\", the book seems to confirm our worst fears... that people at the other end of psychic hotlines aren't really psychic!<br />This is not a journalistic expose' of the telephone psychic industry, but the personal account of one man who made his living as a telephone psychic for several years. Over time, he began comparing notes with fellow psychics and learned all the tricks of the trade. The author exposes himself as much as anyone else, and actually makes you feel some sort of empathy for the trials that these low-paid independent contractors are forced to go through.<br />Besides giving an overview of the industry in general, and an insight into the minds of telephone psychics themselves, the author also delves into psychological issues surrounding hotline callers. After answering thousands of phone calls, the author has been able to gain great insight into what type of people call these numbers, why they call them, when they call, why the general public is fascinated by them, etc. The book reveals just as much about psychic hotline callers and the general public as it does about the telephone psychic industry itself.<br />For anyone considering calling a psychic hotline, this book is a must. The chapter titled \\"How to Call a Psychic and Not Go Broke\\" should save you much more time and money than this book sells for.<br />For anyone considering becoming a telephone psychic, this book will reveal the sometimes dark world that you may be getting into, and provides tips on how to handle difficult situations. It isn't exactly a \\"how-to\\" guide for aspiring telephone psychics, but it comes darned close.<br />About the only downside of this book is the author's occasional meanderings into new age culture, psycho-babble and spirituality. If you are in to that kind of stuff, it may make the book more enjoyable. To me, it was just a temporary distraction from the rest of the story.<br />Overall, the book was extremely educational and enjoyable to read. The author's wry sense of humor is prevalent throughout the book, and his colorful stories are ones that you will end-up repeating to your friends. Carrying a cover price of only $$$, this book is a bargain. Well worth your time and money. I'd recommend it to anyone that is curious about the telephone psychic industry, or who just needs a good laugh.nto new age culture, psycho-babble and spirituality. If you are in to that kind of stuff, it may make the book more enjoyable. To me, it was just a temporary distraction from the rest of the story. <br />Overall, the book was extremely educational and enjoyable to read. The author's wry sense of humor is prevalent throughout the book, and his colorful stories are ones that you will end-up repeating to your friends. Carrying a cover price of only $$$, this book is a bargain. Well worth your time and money. I'd recommend it to anyone that is curious about the telephone psychic industry, or who just needs a good laugh.	2002-09-08
US	53035876	R3IGUGDAKIAC9W	087983823X	382470806	Serotonin	Books	3	30	32	N	Y	Nice Start...	This book is a nice start towards learning more about the benefits (or lack thereof) of serotonin. It is now a bit dated though, and could definitely use an update.<br />Unfortunately, the book really raises as many questions as it provides answers about the topic. The research available at the time seems inconclusive at best. The author seems to try to \\"hype\\" serotonin-producing supplements (like 5-HTP) in the beginning, but in the end one reaches the conclusion that this stuff is too dangerous to be messed with, unless taken under a Doctor's supervision. The side-effects for some include serious heart problems, or even death.<br />It is certainly not the author's fault that this is a topic which needs MUCH more research done on it, before people start using various serotonin-enhancing supplements. Even the \\"natural\\" supplements can be just as dangerous as Prozac, Paxil, MAO's or other anti-depressents, if one is not properly supervised. The author is to be commended for bringing possible dangers to light, despite the tendancy to \\"hype\\" in booklets such as these.<br />It's a quick read, and may be worth the money. Then again, you could probably find just as much useful (and more recent) information about the subject available on the Internet for free.	2002-08-03
US	53035876	R20C8LB2HDY7NW	088419650X	848219553	Bible Cure For Depression/Anxiety (Fitness and Health)	Books	4	35	37	N	N	Small Book, Good Info...	I must say that I was a little put off when I first received this book in the mail. It was quite a bit smaller than I had expected, so be prepared. It is more like an oversized booklet than a book.<br />For such a short \\"book\\" though, it really packs a punch. Although some of the info could use updating, it gives quite a bit of modern, useful info on how spiritual attitude, fitness, diet and supplements can play a positive role in treating anxiety and depression. The information is not comprehensive, nor could it possibly be in such a short publication. It does, however, give a lot of good, general info on how to improve your chances of overcoming anxiety and depression, and is a good starting point for more research.<br />It's a short read, but well worth the time and expense. I like the fact that it covers both the spiritual and physical aspects of treating anxiety and depression. A great concept. My only problem with the book is that it is not longer and more thorough.	2002-07-29
US	53035876	R20A6XYPQ2DSTI	0966200306	735359205	Don't Forget To Look Up : A Christian's Guide to Overcoming Anxiety and Panic Attacks	Books	3	19	19	N	Y	A Nice Book	This book is part self-help, and part autobiography. You won't really find a lot of specific ways to help overcome anxiety attacks here. Most of the techniques are very general in nature, and this book is in no way an exhaustive review of how to treat anxiety or panic attacks.<br />Still, the book is very inspirational, and any Christian that suffers from anxiety and panic attacks will find it worth reading. Its main virture is really its inspiration though, rather than any specific methods for combatting anxiety.<br />I found one of the chapters, on Bible verses that relate to anxiety and strength, to be the most helpful. The book is a quick read. You should be able to finish it in 1-2 sittings.<br />Definitely inspirational, and worth your reading time. There aren't many books available on Christian spirituality and conquering anxiety. If you aren't Christian, and have no interest in becoming Christian, this book won't really help you much. If you are, and you suffer from anxiety, definitely check it out.	2002-05-24
US	53035876	R3TVE7ZH21K3ZB	0964415704	510240474	Custody for Fathers : A Practical Guide Through the Combat Zone of a Brutal Custody Battle	Books	5	43	43	N	Y	Best Book Yet	I've probably bought every book available on Amazon.Com regarding father's rights (or loack thereof), and this is definitely the best I have come across so far.<br />The information contained is general, but very practical and easy to understand. Unfortunately, there really aren't any books out there that focus squarely on the laws in specific states. From having dealt with my own attorney though, this book seems to come the closest to capturing the overall feel of how the legal system really works.<br />About my only \\"complaint\\" concerning the book is the fact that the title may mislead some fathers into believing that they have a significant chance of gaining primary custody of their own children. In actual practice, this will only happen if a.)The mother agrees to it; or b.)The mother is incarcerated, a drug addict (and you can prove it), a prostitute, has a vilolent criminal history, or a history of serious mental illness.<br />In my particular case, I am the father of a newborn. Even with the advice in this book (and several others), the best lawyer available, private investigators, help from family, a decent income to spend on legal and investigate fees, etc., I know that my chances of obtaining primary custody of my daughter are practically zilch. Sad, but true.<br />Still, the info in this book will help prepare me for court, so that I can at least win some sort of significant visitation. I feel confident that the info in this book will help me increase my chances of at least being able to spend time with my child, despite the best efforts of the mother. It's definitely worth the small investment of time and money to be able to spend time with your child. You will definitely get your money's worth with this book.	2002-05-19
US	53035876	RRBIXNS0GR0FS	1928697011	924306301	Putting Together Your Lifestyle Portfolio	Books	1	1	1	N	Y	Just Plain Pathetic...	You usually can't judge a book by its cover. In this case, you probably can though.<br />First off, the &quot;book&quot; looks as if it was printed on someone's inkjet printer in the low resolution mode. None of the pages are numbered, but it looks to be around 16 pages long, and is stapled in the center.<br />The content? Not much to speak of. The book suffers from so many typographical errors as to make one laugh out loud. There are even misspellings on the cover! Obviously, no editor came anywhere near this thing. You'd think that if the author were a successful MLM entrepreneur that she could at least afford a word processor with spell checking.<br />Back to the actual content... It's one of those ho-hum MLM PR pieces. Nothing new here. Just a lot of poorly written propaganda. There are some highly questionable claims made, and statistics that have no sources to back them up. It's all sizzle and no steak.<br />If you are looking for a marketing tool to initiate others into MLM, you would do better to write and print something yourself. You certainly couldn't do much worse.<br />How this book has managed to retain all of its typographical errors since the original printing in 1997 is a real mystery. I'm guessing that it's largely due to the fact that the IQ of this book's average reader is somewhere around that of a houseplant.<br />Save your $1.50 towards buying a &quot;real&quot; book.	2001-09-25
US	53035876	R1Y1DLRG07X64X	0962601225	968645419	Guess Who's Listening at the Other End of Your Telephone?	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	As Funny As Telecom Books Get...	Those of you who are not involved in the telecom industry may not have an appreciation for this book. However, as someone that has been involved in the telecom industry since 1992, I have to admit that I was fascinated with it.<br />Barry Harrin's writing style is casual and humorous. The book essentially is his profesional autobiography, and covers his rise from the bottom rung of the telecommunications ladder at &quot;Ma Bell&quot; to becoming one of the top technical executives in his field.<br />The book is very short, at around 120 pages. The chapters are only 2-3 pages apiece, and you will likely read the entire book in a single sitting. It certainly is a difficult one to put down.<br />For those of you in the telecom industry looking for a good laugh, this book is a genuine treat. It's one of my personal favorites.	2001-02-01
US	53035876	RITB9OGW3ACLH	1578200237	134367052	Newton's Telecom Dictionary	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Belongs on Every Telecom Professional's Bookshelf	Harry Newton's Telecom Dictionary is one of the few books I recommend that every serious telecom professional should own a copy of. It is the defacto standard for telecommunications industry related definitions. It's the only dictionary you'll ever own that you will want to read cover to cover! Harry's unique sense of humor and extensive explanations of complicated industry terminology make it a thoroughly enjoyable read. It's really more like a telecom encyclopedia than a dictionary, as Harry gives an in-depth analysis of more industry terms than you will find in any other publication. Well worth the money at twice the price.<br /><br />William Van Hefner	1998-06-12
