US	53031416	RUY2BO9OVGQ4H	1400098424	656948149	13 Steps Down	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Rendell At Her Best	Ruth Rendell excels at mystery novels with psychological twists and turns, and Thirteen Steps Down is a work to rival her very best.<br /><br />There are three major characters, all with love fantasies based only loosely on reality.  Mix Cellini is a former abused child with the attendant potential for violence.  He is obsessed with mass murderer Reggie Christie (who really did live in Notting Hill) and with supermodel Nerissa Nash.  Nerissa has her own fantasies about the boy next door.  Gwendolyn Chawcer, an octogenarian who rents a flat to Mix Cellini, constantly remembers her own great love, a doctor who attended her dying mother fifty years earlier.  The plot interweaves between these characters and their obsessions, finally culminating in a tragic but satisfying ending for two characters and greater maturity and self-knowledge for the third.<br /><br />The settings add to the pleasure of the plot twists.  London's Notting Hill is a crowded, cosmopolitan area with many neighborhoods ranging from posh to slum, and Gwendolyn Chawcer's crumbling, dust-filled mansion is an appropriately creepy, even haunted, center for the mystery's unfolding. There are also many lesser characters whose personalities and observations add to the story and help illuminate the main plot.<br /><br />Thirteen Steps Down is Rendell at her finest.	2005-10-12
US	53031416	RSUU06P7S758R	140004006X	685801017	1491: New Revelations of the Americas Before Columbus	Books	5	176	197	N	Y	An Intriguing New Look	Charles C. Mann has taken much of what we thought we knew about the Native Americans and their world and thrown it out the window. In a pleasantly informal yet highly professional style, Mann recounts tales of his own studies and travels, as well as those of many archaeologists, historians, and anthropologists past and present throughout the Americas.<br /><br />If your knowledge of the Native Americans begins and ends with what you learned in school years ago, or with the stereotypes perpetuated by Hollywood, you are in for quite a shock.  To begin with, the Native Americans have been \\"natives\\" here for far longer than any one suspected. Next, their cultures were heterogeneous and quite advanced, in many ways far outdoing their counterparts in Europe.  And in what may be the most controversial sections, Mann maintains that the Native Americans were neither primitive savages who left no mark on their world, nor dreamy proto-environmentalists who lived as one with nature, but rather people who throughly altered and shaped their landscapes.<br /><br />This is not a book which will please many with an agenda on either the pro-development or pro-environment side, but it will be found invaluable by those who seek a better understanding of the \\"New World\\" before the Europeans \\"discovered\\" it.	2005-09-13
US	53031416	R2LALL1N9MBBLN	0060799307	945995380	Tolkien: The Hobbit Calendar 2006	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Tolkien's Own Vision	This calendar may strike those who are primarily familiar with Tolkien through the movies as somewhat plain and simple.  But the real charm of these pictures and drawings illustrating The Hobbit is that they come from Tolkien's own pen and brush, and thus represent the author's true vision of Middle-earth.<br /><br />Tolkien was a skilled artist, and his talents are well displayed here in these drawings and paintings.  The best of these are Tolkien's own paintings.  I am particularly fond of April's The Hill and December's Conversation With Smaug.  Some of the illustrations were originally black and white drawings Tolkien produced for the book which have been colorized by H.E. Riddett.  These have been reproduced many times since they were created in the 1970s.  I have never been as fond of these colorized versions as I am of the black and white originals, since they seem to lack the true Tolkien spirit.  Possibly that is because I am extremely familiar with the originals, and thus anything different strikes a false note.  I do think the Riddett versions of the Misty Mountain landscape and the Elven-king's gate are quite nice.<br /><br />All of these illustrations have been reproduced before in various calendars and in Christina Scull and Wayne Hammond's authoritative J.R.R. Tolkien: Artist and Illustrator. The short biography and book covers on the back page are identical to the 2005 calendar.	2005-09-12
US	53031416	R3UPNX90H4G9VR	0066210860	430302549	Empires of the Word: A Language History of the World	Books	5	6	11	N	N	Wideranging and Enjoyable	Nicholas Ostler has created a history of the world through its languages.  Other historians have touched on the importance of language in the development of human civilization, but few have provided so thorough a study as this one.  Ostler wanders through fascinating stories of the rise and fall of various tongues, pointing out and explaining the reasons for many conundrums such as the successful career of Chinese and the failure of Latin to survive as a living language.<br /><br />Ostler refers back and forth to various chapters throughout this work, which can be somewhat confusing and distracting, but with so vast a subject he had no other choice.  This is a book which deserves a place beside such standard world histories as McNeill and McNeill's The Human Web.	2005-09-12
US	53031416	RLJJEY9TZXTZH	0345457242	772147660	Drive to the East (Settling Accounts Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	17	21	N	Y	Catastrophe Upon Disaster	Harry Turtledove's alternative history continues to intrigue, inspire, and sometimes fatigue me.  In this world, the South won the Civil War and then defeated the US again in the Second Mexican War in the early 1880s.  In World War I the CSA joined Britain, France, and Russia in a war against the USA, Germany, and Austria-Hungary.  After the CSA and its allies were defeated in 1917, they slid into fascist style dictatorships and began to prepare for a war of revenge.  World War II began in 1941 and now rages across the globe.<br /><br />Turtledove once again portrays a host of characters from both the US and the CS, jumping from one storyline to another several times in each chapter.  The CS has invaded the US and cut the North in two, but its charismatic President (dictator) Jake Featherston seems oblivious to warnings from his generals about overreaching.  Meanwhile, Featherston's Freedom Party is systematically carrying out a black Holocaust in a camp in Western Texas.  The US struggles to continue fighting, its leadership bolstered by the knowledge that a secret super weapon is under construction in the west.<br /><br />One of my favorite aspects of this Turtledove series is the way he interweaves imaginary and historic characters.  Thus Flora Hamburger Blackford, former US First Lady and now Socialist Congresswoman in Philadelphia (and my favorite character in the series), has many dealings with Robert Taft and Franklin Roosevelt.  Jimmy Carter also makes a brief appearance.<br /><br />Turtledove tries to carry on too many storylines and has too many characters who have little to no development.  Some segments, particularly battle scenes, seem to drag on too long (although Turtledove does us a service by emphasizing the blood and violence of war).<br /><br />I feel these weaknesses are outweighed by the imaginative sweep of the series and the insights we are given into our modern world with its suicide bombings and advocates of \\"preventive war\\".  Anyone with more than a cursory knowledge of World War II's actual history will be able to figure out what lies in wait for the US and the CS in the next volume, but the ultimate fate of Turtledove's many characters, both imaginary and historic, is still up in the air.with more than a cursory knowledge of World War II's actual history will be able to figure out what lies in wait for the US and the CS in the next volume, but the ultimate fate of Turtledove's many characters, both imaginary and historic, is still up in the air.	2005-08-23
US	53031416	RA5GIUSTEG6QK	0711224528	347086383	The Bookshop At 10 Curzon Street: Letters Between Nancy Mitford and Heywood Hill 195273	Books	5	9	11	N	Y	Quintessential Mitford	Nancy Mitford was one of the world's great letter writers.  I own two collections of her letters \\"Love From Nancy\\" and \\"The Letters of Nancy Mitford and Evelyn Waugh\\".  This volume, composed of letters between Mitford and the man with whom she shared ownership of a London bookstore, adds a different dimension to Mitford's communications in that they show her as a businesswoman and also as a researcher for her biographical works on Madame de Pompadour, Louis XIV, Voltaire, and Frederick the Great.<br /><br />Even though most of these letters had some sort of business or professional intent, all of them display Mitford's sparkling wit and sharp sense of humor.  The letters from Heywood Hill are also humorous and make it clear that this was not merely a professional relationship but a close and long lasting friendship. Together the two were friends with much of London's literary set and also had close ties of kinship and friendship with a large segment of the aristocracy.  It was probably a good thing that Nancy Mitford lived in Paris during most of the period covered by these letters.  Otherwise it is difficult to imagine any kind of work getting done at 10 Curzon Street for all the shrieks of laughter and impromptu parties, and the bookshop would have had to close years ago.<br /><br />Heywood Hill is still in business at 10 Curzon Street, and it is one of my favorite London bookshops. This collection is a perfect memoir, not just of two very bright and funny people, but of the business which brought them together and helps perpetuates their memory.	2005-07-25
US	53031416	RUL4SSJ8DIO8X	0060761288	877820062	100 People Who Are Screwing Up America (And Al Franken Is #37)	Books	1	55	110	N	N	Unconvincing And Inconsistent	Undoubtedly America needs to confront the many threats to civilized discourse which have strained our body politic in recent years.  This is what Mr. Goldberg claims his book was written to do.  It falls far short of what is required.<br /><br />In a breezy, often witty manner Mr. Goldberg writes short vignettes on individuals and groups whom he claims are vulgarizing our nation.  Few would disagree with him on some of his targets like Paris Hilton (it is actually her parents whom Mr. Goldberg attacks, not she herself).  But most of Mr. Goldberg's choices strike me as harmless (Sheila Jackson Lee is a tad eccentric, I agree, but as such she fits in well with many other Congressmen)or as chosen to appeal to the same audience which ate up Mr. Goldberg's last two books.<br /><br />Now Mr. Goldberg will claim that he is non-partisan, and indeed he has included a few right wingers like Roy Moore, Michael Savage, and Jimmy Swaggart on his roll, but by and large the list is Democratic/progressive.  And the charges Mr. Goldberg brings against them primarily all boil down to the same thing: they don't support, and don't like, George W. Bush.<br /><br />Again, Mr. Goldberg claims that he considers these people to be screwing up America not because of their beliefs, but because of the vulgarity with which they express themselves.  Undoubtedly it is true that many Hollywood stars are profane.  Undoubtedly it is also true that coarseness has contributed to the deep divisions and increasing partisanship amongst our citizens.  But this is not a Democratic malady alone.  Mr. Goldberg has limited his list primarily to those who intemperately attack George W. Bush.  If he was truly concerned about attacking the Presidency as an institution, as he maintains, he would have been better served to have looked back a few years and selected some individuals for inclusion on his list who made names for themselves attacking President Clinton and his family in some of the vilest and most disgusting terms possible.<br /><br />Of course, Mr. Goldberg did not do that because he has written this book to appeal to Bush supporters, many of whom have apparently come to believe that criticizing the present occupant of the Oval Office is a form of lese majeste which is deserving of the harshest of penalties.<br /><br />Mr. Goldberg has also taken the opportunity to even a few personal scores against Al Franken (who had the temerity to criticize him), and his old colleagues Dan Rather and Bill Moyers, among others.  It is a shame that Mr. Goldberg, who was once a respected journalist, has chosen to make money by catering to the prejudices of those who support the current Administration.disgusting terms possible. <br /> <br />Of course, Mr. Goldberg did not do that because he has written this book to appeal to Bush supporters, many of whom have apparently come to believe that criticizing the present occupant of the Oval Office is a form of lese majeste which is deserving of the harshest of penalties.   <br /> <br />Mr. Goldberg has also taken the opportunity to even a few personal scores against Al Franken (who had the temerity to criticize him), and his old colleagues Dan Rather and Bill Moyers, among others.  It is a shame that Mr. Goldberg, who was once a respected journalist, has chosen to make money by catering to the prejudices of those who support the current Administration.  <br /> <br />	2005-07-13
US	53031416	RBFN9JUAB4TFB	0802714471	585623524	A History Of The World In Six Glasses	Books	5	207	215	N	Y	History The Way It Should Be	This is a good example of why history is fun.  Tom Standage has investigated the origins of six beverages: beer, wine, spirits, coffee, tea, and Coca-Cola and has found innumerable connections, interconnections, and insights into not only the histories of the drinks themselves but also their impacts on the larger human story.  The links Standage finds, for example between coffee and the Enlightenment or tea and the Opium Wars or wine and beer and their effect on class and cultural tensions in Greece and Rome, just a few of the many insights you'll find in the book) are fascinating.  Standage also provides one of the most succinct but thorough dissections of the globalization debate I have ever seen in his coverage of \\"Coca-Colonization.\\"<br /><br />A History of the World in Six Glasses is much more than just a history of six beverages.  It is history as it should be written (and taught).	2005-06-10
US	53031416	RO4ESHKIIX5U7	0670033677	12780288	Big Cotton: How A Humble Fiber Created Fortunes, Wrecked Civilizations, and Put America on the Map	Books	5	12	14	N	Y	A Nice Informal Study	This is an enjoyable look into the history and myriad uses of cotton, a material we use every day but rarely give much thought to.  Stephen Yafa has a personal interest in the subject in that he is a native of Lowell, Massachusetts, the first American cotton mill town.  I have a personal interest in cotton as well, being descended from generations of cotton planters and farmers in the southern US.  I was always grateful that my parents were able to make the jump away from cotton so that I didn't have to depend on the stuff for my livelihood, but the pervasiveness of the plant in human history and its impact on so many different regions came as a surprise to me as I read Big Cotton.<br /><br />Yafa begins Big Cotton with a discussion of the early origins and spread of the cotton plant in ancient human history.  The strongest sections of the book deal with the impact cotton had on the Industrial Revolution and the growth and development of the United States.  The later chapters deal with more social and cultural history and provide some intriguing speculations on the role genetically modified cotton will play in the future.  Yafa also gives some interesting information on the role of cotton in international affairs, as Chinese cotton production rises and as US cotton subsidies jeopardize the livelihoods of West African cotton farmers.<br /><br />Yafa writes in an informal, breezy style which is pleasant and often witty. (He apologizes in the introduction for the many unavoidable puns about the thread of the story and such, but these add to what is already a pleasureable reading experience.)	2005-06-07
US	53031416	R2K712ZEL3YXPP	0871138816	782945482	1759: The Year Britain Became Master of the World	Books	5	17	19	N	Y	The Story Of The Annus Mirabilis	Some years are immediately recognized by the people who lived through them as being major turning points in history.  1776 is an obvious example, and so is 1759.  However, many people today would be hardpressed to remember any earthshaking events that took place in 1759.  Frank McLynn has taken the annus mirabilis (as it was known in Britain at the time) and given it new life.<br /><br />1759 was the center point of the Seven Years War, a titanic struggle which has often been called the first true world war.  Many nations and areas were involved in the conflict, but the primary combatants were Britain and France.  The two European superpowers had been locked in battle for most of the last eighty years over who was going to be supreme in Europe and in the colonial areas.<br /><br />McLynn divides his book into chapters dealing with different areas which were at the center of the struggle in 1759: Europe, India, the Caribbean, and North America.  He describes such climatic battles as The Plains of Abraham and Quiberon Bay so clearly that even readers without military backgrounds can fully comprehend the strategies of the commanders.  He provides short but clear biographies of the leading actors in the drama of 1759 like George II, William Pitt, Louis Montcalm, Madame de Pompadour, and Louis XV.  Most impressively, he provides detailed but understandable analyses of the military and financial strengths and weaknesses of Britain and France.  I also appreciated the amount of material McLynn provides on the North American Indians and their societies, and how they played off the Europeans against each other in order to maintain their own existence.  McLynn is fair minded, giving horrific details of Indian atrocities against Europeans, but then describing similar atrocities performed by Europeans against the Indians and putting both in the context of what was a violent and bloodthirsty century (No \\"civilization against the savages\\" theme for McLynn, in other words).<br /><br />I especially enjoyed the short prologues at the beginning of most of the chapters giving some cultural perspectives on what was happening during 1759, so that the reader doesn't come away with the impression that it was all battle and no art or literature.  I tend to be a little doubtful that the Jacobites played quite as large a role in many of 1759's events as McLynn makes out, but that is understandable in that the declining fortunes of the Stuarts and their followers has been a central focus of his studies over many years.  All in all, 1759 is a masterful study of a year we ought to remember better.<br /> <br />I especially enjoyed the short prologues at the beginning of most of the chapters giving some cultural perspectives on what was happening during 1759, so that the reader doesn't come away with the impression that it was all battle and no art or literature.  I tend to be a little doubtful that the Jacobites played quite as large a role in many of 1759's events as McLynn makes out, but that is understandable in that the declining fortunes of the Stuarts and their followers has been a central focus of his studies over many years.  All in all, 1759 is a masterful study of a year we ought to remember better.	2005-06-05
US	53031416	RMZE8152V7T1X	0743226712	53542661	1776	Books	5	19	20	N	N	History At Its Best!!!	David McCullough's already stellar reputation as an erudite but highly readable historian will be further burnished by his latest offering.  1776 is the story of the year every American knows, but doesn't really understand.  While we all know the significance of July 4, 1776, few recognize that the  act of declaring independence was only part of a larger story of struggle, defeat, and near catastrophe during that turning point year.  McCullough provides fascinating descriptions of battle after battle lost, of scruffy Americans withering under fire from the most efficient and best trained army in the world, and of despair turning to elation as the Americans turned on and crushed their foes at Trenton and Princeton.<br /><br />One of the many fine features of McCullough's work is his ability to draw portraits of men we revere as almost god-like (like Washington) that help us see them as actual humans, flawed but nevertheless exceptional.  Another fine trait is McCullough's even handedness.  One of the best sections of the book comes at the beginning with a description of King George III's declaring the colonists to be rebels.  McCullough shows us the King and his ministers not as the bumbling fools of legend but as the honorable, patriotic, leaders they were, blinded by their inability to understand the colonial point of view and certain that they were upholding the rights of free Britons by putting down the American rebels.<br /><br />1776 also pleases by liberally quoting from the letters and diaries of numerous American soldiers, so that the reader gets a sense of what life was like for the \\"grunts\\" as well as the leadership.  That aspect is what I will remember longest about 1776, the story of those grimy farmers and small businessmen who weren't really sure they wanted to be there, and who didn't really  trust or like their fellow soldiers from other colonies, but who put up with the dirt and the starvation and the danger because they trusted General Washington and were willing to fight for a vision they didn't fully understand but nevertheless valued.  A great book to read on Memorial Day or the Fourth of July or any day when you want to remember the past and be proud.gton and were willing to fight for a vision they didn't fully understand but nevertheless valued.  A great book to read on Memorial Day or the Fourth of July or any day when you want to remember the past and be proud.	2005-05-30
US	53031416	R1XGVTLDJVR3PW	0142003816	316403309	The Kitchen Boy: A Novel of the Last Tsar	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Highly Involving And Satisfying	This short novel allows readers to imagine themselves in the Ipatiev House or House of Special Purpose in Ekaterinburg, SIberia during the months of June and July, 1918, when it was the last home of Tsar Nicholas II and his wife and family.  The story is told through the eyes of Leonid Sednev, the fourteen year old kitchen boy who stayed with the Imperial Family up until the Bolshevik guards, in a rare show of pity, sent him away a few hours before their assassination.<br /><br />This is a work of fiction, but Robert Alexander did a marvelous job of research and produced a highly accurate portrait of the last Tsar,his family, their servants and guards.  Nicholas, Alexandra, Olga, Tatiana, Maria, Anastasia, and Alexis all live again in these pages.<br /><br />The book ends with some unexpected twists that make for a very satisfying conclusion.  You will enjoy The Kitchen Boy even if you are not familiar with the last Romanovs, and if you are a Romanov aficionado, you will be doubly pleased.	2005-05-23
US	53031416	RVB0EZMA2H3VZ	0679451188	288137759	Princesses: The Six Daughters of George III	Books	5	93	93	N	Y	Dutiful Daughters	Flora Fraser is the next generation in the fine biographical/historical tradition of her mother Lady Antonia Fraser and her late grandmother Elizabeth (Countess of) Longford.  Like her forebears, Fraser combines scholarship with an elegant and witty writing style to produce books which  illuminate and engage.<br /><br />King George III's six daughters tend to get short shrift from historians and biographers who focus on their father, their brothers, and their niece Queen Victoria. The prevailing picture of them is of six mousy women pushed into the background.  Fraser has pulled Charlotte, Augusta, Elizabeth, Mary, Sophia, and Amelia out of the shadows and let us see that they had strong personalities and lives of their own.<br /><br />The six princesses were victims of circumstance even more than most eighteenth century royal women.  Ordinarily they would have been married off to men they scarcely knew almost as soon as they reached puberty in order to strengthen Britain's alliances.  George III, however, had been horrified by the ill treatment two of his own sisters received at the hands of unloving husbands, and he was determined that his own daughters would not suffer such a fate.  Unfortunately his paternal affections did not extend to allowing his daughters to marry Englishmen they loved, and only meant that he turned down overtures from many foreign princes, usually without consulting his daughters at all. Furthermore, as the princesses reached marriageable age the French Revolution and Napoleonic Wars  meant many possible suitors were now the enemies of Britain and thus out of bounds. Finally, George III's bouts of madness/porphyria attacks made him unable to entertain marriage offers, and his wife Queen Charlotte's deep depression over her husband's malady meant that she could not be a matchmaker either.<br /><br />Bereft of the chance to be proper wives and mothers (the only acceptable role for nearly all women of the period) the princesses lived under their parents' noses well into middle age.  They developed literary and artistic interests and were patrons of British charities, and managed little flirtations and dalliances here and there with gentlemen of the court.  One of Augusta's liaisons possibly ended in (an illegal) marriage, while Sophia actually produced an illegitimate child.  The princesses were dutiful and loving children to their increasingly difficult parents and were supportive siblings to their rackety brothers, who were also denied the chance to legally marry women they loved.<br /><br />It was only in middle age that some of the daughters married, Charlotte and Elizabeth to German princelings, Mary to an English cousin.  Charlotte probably had the most adventurous life, living in Wurttemburg right through several invasions by Napoleon and having to flee for her life at one point (Fraser's description of her life in temporary exile, accompanied by two kangaroos, is among the most amusing of the many anecdotes in the book.)<br /><br />The fine human qualities of the daughters are well portrayed here.  I felt sorriest for Amelia, whose unrequited love for an English officer lasted until her death in 1810.  I was impressed with the love  the daughters showed for their parents and their brothers, and by the love their brothers gave them in return. (Usually the later Hanoverians are depicted as  self-indulgent reprobates devoid of any finer qualities.) Finally, the love and regard the daughters had for each other, going to great trouble to visit when one was ill for example, is admirable.<br /><br />The final years of the daughters were quiet, marked by illness and decline, but I was glad to see that they were not lonely ones, but rather filled with visits from their surviving siblings and other relations and friends.  There is a charming photograph in the book of Queen Victoria with two of her children visiting Mary, the last survivor.  It is a fitting end to this story of six women who, though relatedto some of the wealthiest and most powerful people of their time, enjoyed unassuming and generally unremarked upon lives.hough related to some of the wealthiest and most powerful people of their time, enjoyed unassuming and generally unremarked upon lives.	2005-04-25
US	53031416	R12PH8XP11JFQ8	0413773078	26021369	The Lost Prince: Screenplay (Screen and Cinema)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Interesting Insights Into The Production	This screenplay of The Lost Prince lends an added dimension to a superb production.  Stephen Poliakoff's dramatization of the life and times of young Prince John, the epileptic and possibly autistic youngest son of King George V and Queen Mary, is full of beautiful images. His screenplay helps viewers recognize the research and imagination that it took to bing such a creation to reality. Another interesting aspect of this screenplay is that it differs from the production as I saw it on \\"Masterpiece Theater\\" and then on DVD in some scenes, with extra dialogue in some scenes and with dialogue missing or shortened in others. Evidently this is an indication that a TV or movie production is an ongoing creation, with script changes being common right up to the final filming.<br /><br />I particularly enjoyed the notes Poliakoff provides explaining why he chose to portray certain scenes and characters as he did, giving historical background on some characters like Lord Stamfordham and insights into some segments, like George V's meeting on the Irish Question in 1914, which are otherwise somewhat obscure.<br /><br />There are a few errors of fact and interpretation which leap out at those who have already made a study of the people and events covered in this production.  Queen Mary's mother was Princess Mary Adelaide of Cambridge, not Mary of Adelaide. (But Poliakoff does an excellent job of portraying Mary Adelaide and her effect on her daughter.) I also found the portrayal of the Russian Imperial Family's visit to England, while visually very beautiful, somewhat jarring, particularly in its depiction of Empress Alexandra as a tense, dictatorial neurotic.  Alexandra was a shy and reserved woman, but with family members, particularly those like George and Mary whom she had known for many years, she was relaxed and very down to earth. But these are mere quibbles only other royal aficionados will notice, and they do not detract from the overall quality of the production.	2005-04-21
US	53031416	RO8YRK6M7LFU1	1560976470	429232388	The Complete Peanuts 1955-1956 (Vol. 3)  (The Complete Peanuts)	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Another Step In The Creation Of A Masterpiece.	With this volume of Peanuts the classic characters are on the road to full realization:  Charlie Brown is now a chronic loser, Lucy has assumed her role as fuss-budget in chief, Snoopy's fantasy world is taking shape, and Linus is a philosopher in training with security blanket in tow.  I'm particularly glad to see Pig Pen is so prominent as he is one of my favorite characters, sadly neglected in the last couple of decades.<br /><br />As always, one of the most interesting aspects of this Peanuts volume is the references to events which were current at the time the strips were first printed.  You get the flavor of the mid 1950s and a sense of fads and fancies coming and going, for example, the strips when all the boys are wearing coonskin caps, and then a few weeks later, Charlie Brown asks \\"Whatever happened to Davy Crockett?\\"	2005-04-21
US	53031416	RSV8WZ5PMYVBA	1594200084	832726979	Occidentalism: The West in the Eyes of Its Enemies	Books	5	8	10	N	N	A Short But Weighty Look At A Big Subject	In less than 150 pages Occidentalism manages to explain (but not excuse)much of the anti-Western sentiment seemingly so widespread in some parts of the world.  In a series of short essays, we are provided with quite a bit of cultural and economic history that demonstrates that much of the negative image of the West today can be traced back to Western attitudes and actions, some dating back centuries.  Other sections give us insight into some fairly obscure aspects of non-Western cultures, like Wahhabism.<br /><br />This book is accessible and interesting to the general reader.  While it does not excuse anti-Western attitudes, it does explain how those attitudes came about, and in the process makes it clear that sometimes the West is its own worst enemy.	2005-04-13
US	53031416	RR3ZYMJBCHJO4	0767914732	137067110	The Friar and the Cipher: Roger Bacon and the Unsolved Mystery of the Most Unusual Manuscript in the World	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	Fascinating History Of A Manuscript	This is advertised as the story of the Voynich Manuscript, a mysterious volume of untranslatable and esoteric notes and drawings which surfaced in 1912.  Apparently the work of the famed English medieval scientist Roger Bacon, the Voynich Manuscript has defied every translator and codebreaker.<br /><br />The Goldstones have padded out the story of the manuscript itself (what can there be to say about a manuscript that no one can figure out?) with some fascinating material about Bacon and his contemporaries like Thomas Aquinas, all of whom were active during the 13th century buildup to what later came to be called the European Renaissance.<br /><br />As a result, this book is part mystery, part history, and both parts are fascinating.	2005-04-13
US	53031416	R1CFI4SUNW8IQQ	0393057410	442782590	Mad Mary Lamb: Lunacy and Murder in Literary London	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Murder, Madness, and Devotion	This is the story of the lives of Charles and Mary Lamb, a brother and sister who heretofore I knew primarily as the authors of a series of children's stories adapted from Shakespeare.<br /><br />The full history of the Lamb siblings is much more complicated.  Mary was a repressed and overworked daughter who suffered from some unidentified mental illness which, one day without warning, caused her to murder her mother. After spending several months in a madhouse, she was placed under the guardianship of her younger brother Charles, who looked after her the rest of his life through numerous committals to various institutions and several moves to different homes in London and its environs.  Together and separately the Lamb siblings were responsible for  many essays, stories, and other publications which established them as leading literary lights.<br /><br />Besides this tale of fraternal devotion, this book also provides a good depiction of life in London in the late 18th and early 19th centuries among the Lambs' literary milieu.	2005-04-13
US	53031416	RCJQ5QTOLGWYK	0060593768	980666451	History on Trial: My Day in Court with David Irving	Books	5	35	54	N	N	Highly Inspiring	Deborah Lipstadt's story of her prosecution for libel by David Irving, a British author, Hitler apologist, and Holocaust denier, is inspirational on several levels.  First, as an historian, I was glad to see the rules true historians live by being used to unmask a man who distorted history.  Secondly, it was elevating to witness Lipstadt's courage and fidelity to her faith, her family, and to the truth through years of tension and weeks of witnessing painful testimony at her trial.  Third, I was impressed by the commitment so many people gave to helping Lipstadt prevail against Irving: the lawyers who agreed to work pro bono or at reduced rates, the publishers who stood by her when it would have been much easier to apologize to Irving and bail out of the trial, the countless people who opened their checkbooks to finance the enormously expensive undertaking, and the many others who encouraged her like taxi drivers, hotel owners, and Holocaust survivors who came to thank her for standing up for the truth.  Finally, this book is encouraging because it demonstrates that no matter how evil and well funded a lie can be, with diligence and determination the truth can be revealed.<br /><br />Most descriptions of trials, particularly one so detailed as this, become too dry for any but lawyers and other courtroom aficionados to appreciate.  History on Trial, despite the intricacies of the legal proceedings, is never dull and always fascinating.	2005-04-05
US	53031416	R3WHFHWH80FUB	0312324235	925611304	Born to Rule: Five Reigning Consorts, Granddaughters of Queen Victoria	Books	5	67	70	N	Y	A Nice Glimpse of A Vanished World	Born to Rule is a joint biography of five royal consorts, all first cousins and granddaughters of Queen Victoria, who reigned over their countries during the early to mid twentieth century.  Although Maud of Norway (called Harry in the family), Sophie of Greece, Victoria Eugenie of Spain (Ena), Alexandra of Russia (Alix), and Marie of Rumania (Missy) were cousins who knew each other fairly well, their personalities and ultimate fates were very different.<br /><br />Most readers will be at least somewhat familiar with Alix's story, which has been told and retold many times on paper and on film, but Ena's struggles with the same hereditary disease of hemophilia, which she passed on to at least two of her sons, are less well known than those of her Russian cousin.  Similarly, while the story of Alix's overthrow in the 1917 Revolution and her subsequent death with her family has been described at length, few readers will be as familiar with Ena's long exile from Spain and Sophie's on again off again career as Queen of Greece. Harry's great success as the democratically chosen monarch of Norway and Missy's extensive struggles on behalf of Rumania deserve to be remembered as well.<br /><br />One of the most interesting achievements of this joint biography are the numerous parallels and comparisons that can be drawn between the five women.  We can see, for example, how Harry's natural modesty and informality made the Norwegians fall in love with her, and how Missy's beauty and elegance endeared her to the Rumanians.  On the other hand, Sophie, Alix, and Ena's shyness and natural reserve were not well received by their husband's subjects and helped lead to the downfalls of the monarchies in their countries. The cousins' origins outside of the countries they eventually ruled were also worthy of comparison.  Alix and Sophie's German blood were black marks against them (poor Sophie was on the outs with the Greeks for being German, and with her brother the Kaiser for not being German enough!), as was Ena's English reserve in Spain. As far as homelife goes, Alix seems to have had the only genuine love match among the five, since Sophie and Missy were married off for political considerations (to husbands they eventually came to love or at least respect), Ena for generally the same reasons (to a husband she eventually came to detest), and Harry married her cousin primarily to avoid being an old maid (but had a happy marriage regardless).<br /><br />Of all these women only Harry has been consistently remembered with love and respect by her adopted country.  Alix and Ena have been rehabilitated to a degree by the twists and turns of twentieth century history in their countries, and while Sophie and Missy are practically forgotten in Greece and Rumania today, it is to be hoped that their many contributions will eventually be recalled in Athens and Bucharest.<br /><br />None of these women were well educated or exceptionally intelligent, but the circumstances of their births and marriages gave them influence at a critical moment in world history.  Born to Rule enables us to remember them and to better understand their impact.ing German enough!), as was Ena's English reserve in Spain. As far as homelife goes, Alix seems to have had the only genuine love match among the five, since Sophie and Missy were married off for political considerations (to husbands they eventually came to love or at least respect), Ena for generally the same reasons (to a husband she eventually came to detest), and Harry married her cousin primarily to avoid being an old maid (but had a happy marriage regardless). <br /> <br />Of all these women only Harry has been consistently remembered with love and respect by her adopted country.  Alix and Ena have been rehabilitated to a degree by the twists and turns of twentieth century history in their countries, and while Sophie and Missy are practically forgotten in Greece and Rumania today, it is to be hoped that their many contributions will eventually be recalled in Athens and Bucharest.   <br /> <br />None of these women were well educated or exceptionally intelligent, but the circumstances of their births and marriages gave them influence at a critical moment in world history.  Born to Rule enables us to remember them and to better understand their impact.	2005-04-05
US	53031416	R22ZVS2GUT2WT2	0786714522	637965318	Nabokov's Butterfly: And Other Stories of Great Authors and Rare Books	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	Bibliophile's Delight	Nabokov's Butterfly is a short but delightful book about some of Rick Gekoski's most memorable moments as a rare book dealer and collector.  I particularly enjoyed the segments where Gekoski describes his personal friendships and contacts with some of the authors.  I was amazed at some of the prices he has received for some books, and interested to see how authors go in and out of fashion, so that someone no one bothered to collect twenty years ago can suddenly become highly collectable and extremely expensive. (And enormously profitable to those far sighted enough to collect them ahead of time!)<br /><br />This book is about both the love of book collecting and the art of selling them.  While personally I doubt I could ever bear to sell some of the volumes Gekoski deals with if I were lucky enough to have them in my possession, I enjoyed this glimpse into what has obviously been a fascinating career.	2005-04-05
US	53031416	R14CPKNSKAVTSY	0393059162	101177199	The New Annotated Sherlock Holmes: The Complete Short Stories (2 Vol. Set)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Fabulous Compendium of  Sherlockiana	The New Annotated Sherlock Holmes is a hefty two volumed slipcased edition with a promise of a third volume still to come.  When complete, all of the Sherlock Holmes short stories and novels will be fully annotated, and the world of 221-B Baker Street and its denizens will be more intriguing than ever.<br /><br />As with most annotated books, it helps to be already familiar with the actual stories so that you can focus on the annotations.  Otherwise, you continually lose the thread of the story as you get sidetracked on one fascinating note after another.  And with Klinger's annotations, every note is captivating and lets the reader see new vistas of material.<br /><br />Conan Doyle, in common with J.R.R. Tolkien among other greats, was able to create characters and worlds who are so believable that many readers accept their reality.  This is part of the charm of Klinger's annotations, that he accepts the reality of Holmes and Watson and solemnly analyzes their movements and other activities as if they really occurred (which of course every Sherlockian knows they did!) Besides the notes themselves, Klinger also provides short essays analyzing enduring puzzles of the stories, like what sort of snake was \\"The Speckled Band\\" and how many times Watson was married.<br /><br />This, with the third volume which is promised for 2005, will be absolutely essential for every student/fan of Holmes and Watson. If you are an absolute novice, I'd suggest you first read the stories in an unannotated version, then after you get the plots down, you can absorb and enjoy the additional pleasures of Klinger's annotations.	2005-02-27
US	53031416	R3LCTTVI5HVIGQ	0060526556	712028977	From Jesus to Christianity: How Four Generations of Visionaries & Storytellers Created the New Testament and Christian Faith	Books	5	72	78	N	Y	A Good Summation Of Early Christian History	From Jesus to Christianity is a well-written and organized look at the first four generations of what started as \\"the Jesus Movement\\" and eventually became the Christian religion.  White writes clearly about what is often an extremely confusing subject, the years during which orthodoxies became heresies and then orthodoxies again with sometimes bewildering speed.<br /><br />I especially appreciated the tables which White provides summarizing the information available about the books of the New Testament and some of the early Christian leaders. These provide a handy reference point to which to turn when the intricacies of some doctrinal points become too complex to follow easily.<br /><br />From Jesus to Christianity will allow Christians and non-Christians alike to gain a better understanding of the early years of that faith, and a better appreciation of the lives of those early men and women who labored so mightily to help that faith survive.	2005-02-10
US	53031416	R3E1XAPHUJQFOJ	0670033375	635086986	Collapse: How Societies Choose to Fail or Succeed	Books	5	4	8	N	Y	An Exciting New Way To Look At The World	Jared Diamond here continues the fine work he began with The Third Chimpanzee and Guns, Germs, and Steel.  In Collapse, he examines the reasons why some societies have failed while others have succeeded, sometimes against all the odds.  Once again he uses environmental and geographical determinism to look at the histories of these societies, and comes up with fascinating new theories to explain their rise and demise.  I was particularly interested in the sections dealing with present day Montana and China, as they indicate so many potential and actual problems (as well as some good news) that face our world.<br /><br />I also found the segments on the Norse colonies in Greenland, Iceland, and elsewhere fascinating in the way Diamond analyzes the reasons for their successes and failures.  The segments on Easter Island and other Pacific islands also make intriguing reading as they demonstrate the connections between environmental and economic activity.  In fact, one of the chief pleasures of Collapse  is Diamond's ability to relate human events like the Rwanda-Burundi genocide to environmental factors.<br /><br />There will be many who will disagree with Diamond's thesis and with his list of suggested adjustments and improvements to the world ecological/environmental balance, but everyone will agree that Collapse is an important and stimulating achievement.	2005-02-03
US	53031416	R2BEFS3ELWYYMU	0060541644	59964273	A Problem from Hell: America and the Age of Genocide	Books	5	11	13	N	N	An Angry Account Of American Absence	A Problem from Hell is a history of genocide in the twentieth century and the United States' continued lack of response.  Power's focus is on debunking the standard denials always made by US officials that \\"we didn't know until it was too late\\" by providing evidence of massive publicity of each genocide at the time it was taking place, and of the continuing determination of the US and other powers to do little or nothing about it.  Power also explains this lack of response as a necessary but cynical part of realpolitik in the twentieth century.  This is particularly effective in her chapters on Saddam Hussein's genocide of the Kurds in 1987-88 and of the Hutu massacres of Tutsis in Rwanda in 1994.<br /><br />There are a number of heroes in Power's book, particularly Raphael Lemkin, who coined the term genocide and campaigned ceaselessly for an international treaty outlawing it.  Also worthy of praise are Henry Morgenthau, one of the few Americans who spoke up for the Armenians in 1915, William Proxmire, who was the only Senator to speak in favor of US ratification of the anti-genocide treaty for years, and Peter Galbraith,a State Department diplomat who risked his life and his career to report on what was happening to the Kurds.<br /><br />A Problem from Hell uplifts even as it depresses by illuminating the complicated dynamics behind the US and the West's lack of response to twentieth century genocide and the steadfastness with which the few who spoke up persevered.  Its a clear headed evaluation of a shameful subject which will help those who read it understand the reasoning behind official obfuscations, and in understanding, take the first step towards eliminating a crime against humanity.	2005-01-23
US	53031416	R15KYDGOXE74QC	0465022812	606885611	The Long Summer: How Climate Changed Civilization	Books	5	8	9	N	N	History From The Climate's Point Of View	This is Brian Fagan's most ambitious work yet, an explanation of the development and diffusion of civilization based on climate factors.  As in Floods, Famines and Emperors and The Little Ice Age, Fagan here digs into the minutiae of years of research into tree rings and glacial ice cores to illuminate just how much human history has been influenced by our planet's weather.  Fagan also demonstrates that long term weather conditions and changes can be predicted with a fair amount of accuracy based on that research.<br /><br />It would be easy for Fagan to capitalize on the sensationalist aspects of other \\"studies\\" of global weather and climate trends which predict imminent disaster from global warming and/or cooling.  Rather than stoop to such a level, Fagan instead calmly lays out the facts about ENSO, the Gulf Stream, and other global weather patterns and demonstrates that they have been factors in the rise and fall of many civilizations, from Mesopotamia to the Mayas.  Just as dispassionately, he details why climatological shifts, some of which could be dramatically quick, in all probability are due to influence some or all of our planet at some time in the future.	2005-01-18
US	53031416	R2OPF0WKRYAD62	0670033561	359169189	Rumpole and the Penge Bungalow Murders	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Rumpole's Most Famous Case, At Long Last	Long time readers of the memoirs of Horace Rumpole as John Mortimer has provided them know that the Penge Bungalow Murders was the case that made Rumpole famous and established him in his career as defender of the defenseless at the Old Bailey and other British courts.  Rumpole refers to the Penge Bungalow Affair throughout his reminiscences of other trials, but up until now we have not known exactly what happened and why it made Rumpole so famous.<br /><br />Now we have the full story at last.  Not only did the Penge Bungalow Murders lead to Rumpole's illustrious career, it also led to his introduction to She Who Must Be Obeyed: his future wife Hilda, daughter of Rumpole's Head of Chambers C.H. Wystan. Furthermore, the case itself is a most satisfying little mystery that will leave you guessing up to the very end.  I hope that other early Rumpole triumphs will soon follow.	2005-01-03
US	53031416	R8ZK3UYKNXXYO	0618517650	669379389	The Lord of the Rings (50th Anniversary Edition)	Books	5	26	28	N	Y	A Binding Worthy Of Its Contents	For its 50th anniversary The Lord of the Rings has at last been produced in an edition worthy of the beauty of its contents.  For the first time, J.R.R. Tolkien's masterpiece has received the treatment due to its classic status: leather binding, gilded edges, fine paper, everything the finest literary works should be accorded but are rarely given.<br /><br />J.R.R. Tolkien was never very happy with the publishing treatment given to The Lord of the Rings.  He was obliged to leave out the pages of the dwarf history found in the Chamber of Mazarbul in Moria when the publishing technology of the mid 1950s wasn't able to accomodate his painstaking production.  He was never pleased with the arbitrary division of the book into three volumes, and much of the artwork, particularly that of the first American paperback editions, pained him deeply.  Now at last we can feel that he would pick up this edition and smile.<br /><br />For this edition Tolkien's son Christopher has carefully prepared the text so as to eliminate many typographical and other errors which had crept in over the years.  Noted Tolkien scholars Wayne Hammond, Christina Scull, and Douglas Anderson have contributed forewards to explain some of the history of these revisions. This edition will truly become the Standard Edition of The Lord of the Rings.<br /><br />This edition of The Lord of the Rings is worthy to be read in Middle earth itself. As I hold it in my hands, I can imagine reading it sitting by an open round window in Bag End, or in the Hall of Fire in Rivendell, or on a flet in Lothlorien or  a tower in Minas Tirith. Any edition of The Lord of the Rings will introduce you to Tolkien's world.  Only this one will do so in a manner worthy of the genius of its creator.	2005-01-02
US	53031416	R33JLTS3PCPLFM	1400051908	703207753	The Rottweiler	Books	5	2	5	N	Y	Rendell At Her Best	This is classic Rendell:  a set of characters seemingly thrown together at random who eventually find their fates interwoven.  The Rottweiler's main setting is a London building with a shop on the ground floor and flats on the three floors above.  Inez owns the building and runs an antique shop there.  She lives on the first floor, and three other tenants, with sundry hangers on and secrets on the next two.  All of these people, plus customers, relatives, fiancees, et. al, wind in and out of the pages with their own little secrets, problems, and mysteries.<br /><br />Although the book is primarily about a murderer and how he is eventually caught, there are  many little subplots that are just as intriguing.  Most of the characters, even the murderer, are likeable and amusing sorts.  Rendell's policemen have a Keystone Kops quality about them in this book, which makes an interesting contrast to her superb Inspector Wexford series.  Obviously not all of London's finest are all that fine!	2004-12-29
US	53031416	R1SKT97LO0J8C5	1579123228	542475743	The Complete Cartoons of the New Yorker (Book & CD)	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Massive But Sublime	Hours of entertainment await you when you open this ultra thick and heavy book, the coffee table book that could serve as a coffee table itself.  Not only do you get hundreds of cartoons printed within the book, along with essays on the many artists and on certain subjects that seem to endlessly recur, but you also get two CDs with every single cartoon ever printed in The New Yorker, from the beginning up until about February of 2004.  These CDs are so intoxicating that you can easily spend hours just flipping from one cartoon to the other, or exploring the works of different cartoonists, or examining themes and subjects as their treatments have changed over the years, or anything.  The CD indices can be a little difficult to navigate and can be frustrating if you are looking for a certain cartoon you remember from years earlier, but don't quite remember the exact wording of the tag line or the exact makeup of the drawing, but that just leads you to find even more cartoons you like so well, you eventually forget what you were looking for in the first place!<br /><br />Buy this book and keep it in a place of honor on a (strong) table or shelf to which you have easy access (and is near your computer), because you'll be constantly wanting to go back and page through it!	2004-12-29
US	53031416	R12L4Q6H6MSR4J	0060534249	223377898	To Rule the Waves: How the British Navy Shaped the Modern World	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	History With Swashbuckling Included	To Rule The Waves is an excellent history of the Royal Navy and its effect on the world.  It begins with the first English efforts to sail beyond their small island's home waters and traces the story through the Navy's most glorious years in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries into its decline in the twentieth, finishing up with a brief survey of the Navy's activities during the 1982 Falklands War.<br /><br />This is not your average military history or a patriotic review of a nation's pride.  There is plenty of detail about events and details which ordinarily wouldn't be considered germane to the subject, but Herman deftly ties things together and shows how the Navy played a role.  Herman also doesn't hesitate to burst a few balloons, like denying that the Armada was a splendid victory (the English were lucky that the Spanish really weren't all that eager to conquer them) or that Trafalgar was a turning point (Napoleon had already abandoned his plan to conquer England).<br /><br />To me the most interesting parts of this book were the little biographies of famous English/British seamen like Francis Drake, John Hawkins, and Horatio Nelson.  I also enjoyed reading about the technological advances and developments that enabled the Royal Navy to dominate the world for decades.  I would have enjoyed having some pictures/drawings of the various ships and captains, and there really weren't enough maps to do the story justice, but these are mere technicalities in what was a very satisfying read.	2004-12-21
US	53031416	R3HU8A9Y098SCK	0375407219	532336785	Spice: The History of a Temptation	Books	5	75	80	N	Y	A Little Bit Of Everything.	This is a nice, well written history of spices and their effects on humanity.  Much of the book deals with the spice races of the 1400s and 1500s and the impact on the world and on Europe's rising power.  Other sections deal with spices  and their roles in history, cooking, romance, politics, religion, and war.  The book is not arranged chronologically but instead  in broad categories devoted to spices' various uses.<br /><br />Turner is scholarly but also witty and informal in his writing.  You will learn a lot and also have a lot of fun while reading his book.	2004-12-21
US	53031416	R2T5LADVNNGKIG	1560976144	382953419	The Complete Peanuts 1953-1954 (Vol. 2)  (The Complete Peanuts)	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	A Masterwork Continues	In this second volume of the Peanuts collection, we continue to see Schulz's world as it evolved towards what became its glory years (late 1950s to late 1960s).  Charlie Brown is still a smart aleck, but gradually his professional victimhood is taking form.  Lucy is still sweet and babyish at the beginning of this volume, but by the end she is definitely moving towards her loud mouth, abrasive, loveable self.  Snoopy is becoming less doggy and more human (we get to imagine the inside of his doghouse for the first time), and Linus is showing signs of genius even though he can't speak yet.  We also see some favorite characters for the first time, noteably Pig Pen, and get to see some failed experiments, such as Charlotte Braun, a loud mouth who moved into the neighborhood for awhile but obviously didn't work out.<br /><br />I was also interested to see some indirect allusions to the real world of the mid 1950s in these early strips, such as one character's refusing to incriminate himself (he must have been watching the McCarthy hearings on those old TV sets!).<br /><br />This is a fun volume which presages some of the finest Peanut moments, which we'll be able to see again in coming years, thanks to this series' creators.	2004-11-29
US	53031416	R39ZLG4735ANJI	156097589X	6726656	The Complete Peanuts 1950-1952 (Vol. 1)  (The Complete Peanuts)	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	A Masterwork Begins	Here we have the first few years of Peanuts in one convenient volume, easy to handle and easy to read.  It will be fascinating to read subsequent volumes and watch as Schulz developed his world strip by strip.<br /><br />In this first volume we meet Charlie Brown, Snoopy, Patty, and Shermy in the first few strips.  Later Violet joins the gang, and along about the middle we meet a sweet little baby girl named Lucy.  Those of us who remember Peanuts in its glory years (late 1950s to late 1960s) will be taken somewhat aback by some of the personalities of these early characters, particularly by how smart alecky and unvictimlike Charlie Brown was in the beginning, but that is part of the charm of watching a classic as it develops. I highly recommend this and future volumes in this series.	2004-11-29
US	53031416	R2HFOYIHHIQ809	0765306948	634103102	Curious Notions (Crosstime Traffic)	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Creative Alternative Worlds	In Curious Notions, the second of his Crosstime Traffic series, Harry Turtledove once again carries on the work of H. Beam Piper (from whom the concept is borrowed) and Robert Heinlein in producing an enjoyable story, aimed primarily at young adults, which will entertain almost anyone interested in science fiction and/or history.<br /><br />Curious Notions is a shop set up by Crosstime Traffic in a San Francisco where Germany won World War I and has dominated the planet for nearly two hundred years.  Paul Gomes and his father sell high tech devices from the Home Timeline in order to obtain money to buy produce for their own overcrowded and inflation-plagued version of Earth.  Inevitably, the German overlords and the local Chinese-American underworld become curious as to the provenance of the goods on sale at Curious Notions, and the Gomes family is imperiled by not one but two competing sets of bad guys.<br /><br />The story is clearly written without the excessive number of characters and side plots which often weakens a Turtledove book.  I found the glimpses of differences between the Home Timeline and the German ruled World fascinating.  There are also some interesting moral dilemmas which are satisfactorially worked out.<br /><br />Like Gunpowder Empire (the first Crosstime Traffic Book), Curious Notions is diverting and highly entertaining.  I look forward to other installments with bated breath.	2004-10-31
US	53031416	R3QTE5Z1771LAJ	0007190360	21213022	Talisman: Sacred Cities, Secret Faith	Books	3	58	75	N	Y	Interesting, But . . .	Graham Hancock and Robert Bauval have produced a number of books, separately and together, on various subjects of esoteric interest, primarily dealing with the possibility of a hitherto unknown civilization having existed before the last Ice Age.  These books are usually diverting and often thought provoking, as is Talisman, even when the reader fails to be convinced of the overall thesis of the authors.<br /><br />Talisman supposedly describes the centuries old history of a secret faith which has surfaced time and again in human history.  The sections which deal with the early Christian gnostics and the Cathars are very well done and provide some intriguing information about the parallels between those groups of which I had not previously known.  I also found the segments dealing with the Templars and their links to the Freemasons intriguing, as will other readers who have enjoyed such books as Holy Blood, Holy Grail, The Messianic Legacy, and others of that ilk.<br /><br />Where I found my interest and credulity flagging were the sections dealing with the numerous references to Ancient Egyptian religion to be found among the French Revolutionaries and in the supposed Masonic symbolism to be found in cities like Washington and Paris. Egyptian references during the French Revolution make sense when you remember that the Catholic Church was considered an arm of the French monarchy, and that therefore anti-monarchists would also be anti-Church and seek to replace it with symbols of other faiths.  Also it is well known that Freemasons were actively involved in the Enlightenment Period and that many early US leaders were (and continue to be in the present era) Masons.  However, I tend to be skeptical of maps detailing straight lines linking different sites.  (It has always been my observation that if you draw lines long enough and in enough directions you can link up just about anything you want to.)<br /><br />I was also somewhat puzzled by the references to 9/11 that are tagged on at the end of the book.  While Al Qaeda members certainly appear to be gullible enough to swallow the idea of a huge Jewish/Masonic conspiracy against them, I don't believe that Osama bin Laden chose to destroy the World Trade Center because the towers had Masonic significance!<br /><br />All in all I can say that this is an entertaining book which will provide a lot of interesting information about Gnosticism, Catharism, and other assorted heresies and the Catholic Church's responses to them, but unfortunately mixed in with this material is a lot of poorly sorted out and ultimately irrelevant data./11 that are tagged on at the end of the book.  While Al Qaeda members certainly appear to be gullible enough to swallow the idea of a huge Jewish/Masonic conspiracy against them, I don't believe that Osama bin Laden chose to destroy the World Trade Center because the towers had Masonic significance! <br /> <br />All in all I can say that this is an entertaining book which will provide a lot of interesting information about Gnosticism, Catharism, and other assorted heresies and the Catholic Church's responses to them, but unfortunately mixed in with this material is a lot of poorly sorted out and ultimately irrelevant data.	2004-10-24
US	53031416	R1D9QDN9DYQ6RI	0140239677	177316168	The Sun King	Books	5	25	26	N	Y	Elegantly Entertaining	Nancy Mitford is best known as an author of witty, elegant novels like The Pursuit of Love and Love in a Cold Climate.  In the 1950s and 1960s she also produced a number of historical works, of which The Sun King is one of the best.<br /><br />The Sun King is a personal biography of Louis XIV.  It does not deal in great detail with the political, military, or economic issues of Louis XIV's reign but primarily focuses on his personal life and that of his family.  Louis married his double first cousin Marie Therese of Spain (she being his genetic sister for all intents and purposes, the reader is amazed that his family turned out as strong and healthy as they did).  He also had three major mistresses and a string of casual acquaintanceships which produced a number of illegitimate children.  His numerous relations also produced a quantity of children and had many extramarital relationships.<br /><br />A major part of the book deals with the construction of Versailles.  Indeed the book seems almost to be a biography of the chateau.  The profuse illustrations, including many photographs of the chateau and its grounds, add immeasurably to the pleasure of reading this work.<br /><br />But the most compelling reason for reading The Sun King is to enjoy Mitford's elegant, witty, prose style, which is as much in evidence here as in her novels.	2004-10-24
US	53031416	R7UDNJX3OHE3E	0792265610	118272438	Imagined London: A Tour of the World's Greatest Fictional City (Directions)	Books	5	27	28	N	Y	Not Nearly Long Enough!!	Imagined London is a wonderful love story.  Anna Quindlen, who had visited London in her dreams for many years, made her first physical visit in 1995.  She tells the story of that visit, and many subsequent ones, in this all too slim volume about the great city's many literary connections.<br /><br />This book reminds me of Helene Hanff's The Duchess of Bloomsbury Street in that it focuses on literary London, but like that book, Imagined London appeals on many levels. A visitor to London can use it as a walking tour guide, for example.  Even those who will rarely or never visit the city will find the elegant writing and deft descriptions are to be treasured.<br /><br />My only complaint about Imagined London is that it is far too short!  Had it been two or even three times as long, I would still savor every word!	2004-10-17
US	53031416	R1KXJPWV1HJOC0	0374130299	194889659	Counting My Chickens . . .: And Other Home Thoughts	Books	5	24	24	N	Y	A Small Jewel From the Last Mitford Girl	Counting My Chickens is a collection of newspaper and magazine columns by Deborah Freeman-Mitford Cavendish, the Dowager Duchess of Devonshire.  \\"Debo\\" is the youngest and only surviving Mitford Girl, the fabulous daughters of Lord and Lady Redesdale who scandalized and delighted the British and the world from the 1930s onward.<br /><br />Although this is a very short book cut into many small, fairly unconnected segments, there is nevertheless much that charms.  The celebrated Mitford wit,most clearly displayed by Debo's sisters Nancy and Jessica, is in evidence, particularly in the sections that deal with Debo's childhood and early adult years (she once traveled by train from Scotland with a goat, milking it in first class waiting rooms on the way.)<br /><br />Also in evidence is the extraordinariness of Debo's life as wife of a Duke and as chatelaine of one of England's great mansions, Chatsworth House.  She casually drops names like Harold Macmillan and John Kennedy (both of whom were indirectly related to her husband) and at the same time records some of the merriments and aggravations that come with having your home on display to tourists several months each year.  Occasionally Debo will drop a barbed comment or two on the silliness of some politicians and visitors, but for the most part she is soft spoken and accomodating.<br /><br />Few Duchesses have written or revealed much about their lives, so its nice that one has done so now, at a time when the House of Lords is being democratized and the aristocracy must seem more anachronistic than ever.	2004-10-17
US	53031416	R4XFSXACE33SK	0156013150	437234577	When Jesus Became God: The Struggle to Define Christianity during the Last Days of Rome	Books	5	12	16	N	Y	When Christianity Became The Church	This is a fascinating study of the period just before and after the legalization of Christianity by the Roman Emperor Constantine.  Christians had been a persecuted minority for nearly 300 years.  Now they found themselves protected and patronized by the Roman government, and this allowed tensions over differing interpretations of Scripture and over the nature of Jesus and his relationship to God to bubble to the surface.<br /><br />This is primarily the story of two bishops, Arius and Athanasius.  Arius believed that Jesus, while similar to God, was not of the same substance.  Athanasius regarded Jesus and God as indivisible and identical.  The controversies engendered by this difference of belief caused so much turmoil that the Emperor Constantine convened the Council of Nicaea to settle the issue.  At Nicaea the issue was settled in favor of Athanasius, whose idea became part of official Christian dogma (the Trinity.)<br /><br />Controversy continued.  A succession of emperors saw first Athanasius, then Arius, in official favor.  The succession of Emperor Julian then threatened Christianity's official position and a revival of paganism.  Eventually, Athanasius' side won out, and Arianism was consigned to heresy.<br /><br />Rubenstein describes these complicated events in a clear, interesting manner  that even those who are neither theologians nor historians can follow.  He brings a unique perspective to the subject in that he himself is Jewish.  He points out that the triumph of Athanasius forever limited the appeal of Christianity to the monotheistic Jews, and eventually made the success of strongly monotheistic Islam possible.<br /><br />This is a well written, well researched book which sheds a lot of light on a particularly shadowy corner of religious history.	2004-10-07
US	53031416	R2T60FL7XH1LOC	0812695690	518380159	The World of the Rings: Language, Religion, and Adventure in Tolkien	Books	5	26	28	N	Y	A Loving Look At Middle Earth	This book was originally published ca 1980 as England and Always.  I have not seen the original so I can't tell how much of this book is new material (beyond a chapter dealing with Peter Jackson's films).  Lobdell has examined Tolkien's writings from several interesting and unusual perspectives.  One of the most interesting deals with the influence of Edwardian adventure fiction (Haggard, etc.) on Tolkien.  Another fascinating chapter deals with Middle Earth as a Christian world in a pre-Christian age.  There is also a short fiction story in an Appendix which is meant to be a sort of parallel to Tolkien's own abandoned sequel to The Lord of the Rings, The Return of the Shadow.  I enjoyed this story, though of course Lobdell as a fiction writer cannot measure up to Tolkien. (But then, no one can!)<br /><br />I am a long time Tolkien reader and addict (since the age of 12 in 1969.)  Most of the time I do not care for Tolkien \\"criticism\\" and \\"literary analysis\\", which to me seems to suck out the magic, but Lobdell's work is different.  The World of the Rings enhances Middle Earth and intensifies the love I feel for it.	2004-09-27
US	53031416	RMMA26MIDCR0W	0060722983	367008340	Tolkien Calendar 2005: The Lord of the Rings 50th Anniversary Calendar	Books	5	32	32	N	N	Tolkien's Own Vision	The 50th Anniversary of The Lord of the Rings' publication is being suitably celebrated with this 2005 Tolkien Calendar.  All of the illustrations are by J.R.R. Tolkien himself, created while he was working on the book in the 1930s and 1940s.  The illustrations have been published before, some in the first few Tolkien calendars in 1972 and 1973, others in Pictures by J.R.R. Tolkien in the late 1970s, and all of them in Christina Scull and Wayne Hammond's classic  J.R.R. Tolkien: Artist and Illustrator.<br /><br />Tolkien was a gifted artist and draftsman.  Even his doodles, like Shelob's Lair (drawn on a page of manuscript) in October, display a high degree of talent and precision.  He was famously finicky about his drawings, insisting that each one should precisely mirror the story.  (This led to his cropping some elements of some drawings, like March's Moria Gate, which displays both the full picture and the part that was trimmed off; and totally discarding others, like the abortive cityscape of Steinborg shown for September.)  This perfectionism led to some absolutely beautiful productions.  I am particularly fond of April's Lothlorien, showing the mallorns in full flower, and of February's view of Rivendell looking east: a tumbled landscape of stone, water, and trees.<br /><br />Those who have become used to the artwork of others in previous Tolkien calendars, and those whose primary view of Middle earth was shaped by the Peter Jackson films, may be a bit put off by these drawings by Tolkien himself.  July's Orthanc, for example, provides a rather modest view of Saruman's tower compared to that seen in the movie.  Those of us who are true lovers of Middle earth, however, will find that these drawings are especially beautiful, regardless of any intrinsic aesthetic value, because they allow us to see Tolkien's own vision as it unfolded in his mind and flowed from his pen and brush.	2004-09-12
US	53031416	R2EFSMW51D1SZC	0743203941	950793123	1912: Wilson, Roosevelt, Taft and Debs -The Election that Changed the Country	Books	5	10	13	N	N	A Turning Point	This history of the 1912 Presidential Election details the events of one of the most dramatic years in US history.  In 1912 the US had been through approximately a dozen years of reform and regulation known by historians as the Progressive Era.  The Republican Party, led by Theodore Roosevelt and William Howard Taft, had been the chief agent of Progressive legislation during two Administrations.  Now in 1912 the GOP turned on itself, with the widely perceived as more conservative Taft, the incumbent President, in battle with his former friend Theodore Roosevelt, who had become steadily more radical in his thinking.  The result was a revolt at the Republican Convention and the splintering off of the Progressive or Bull Moose Party.<br /><br />The Democrats had been traditionally slower to embrace Progressive reforms, but in 1912 their standardbearer Woodrow Wilson, originally nominated as a conservative, led them to acceptance of a reforming agenda.  Finally, Eugene Debs and his Socialist Party had been calling for even more far reaching reforms.<br /><br />The election ended with an Electoral College landslide for Wilson and the Democrats.  The Socialists and the Progressives did quite well in the popular vote, and the more conservative Republicans were all but annihilated.  The realignment which began in 1912 led to the Democrats becoming the chief party of reform in the twentieth century, with the Republicans locked in battle between their conservative and moderate wings.  Much of the next century's political history was set on course in 1912.<br /><br />This is a well written account of the election which does not go deeply into theory or ideology.  It is a personal account, with many entertaining anecdotes and biographies of the candidates and their families and supporters. I recommend it for arm chair politicians and historians.	2004-09-07
US	53031416	R29D9MVJSPPAS8	159017058X	388891755	The Towers of Trebizond (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	5	33	36	N	N	Eccentric And Touching	The Towers of Trebizond might mislead a reader who picks it up into thinking it to be a standard travel account of a journey to Turkey and the Middle East in the 1950s.  However, the famous first line \\"Take my camel, dear . . .\\" will soon warn that there is much much more to this hilarious, odd little novel.<br /><br />Rose Macaulay uses as narrator the ambiguously named Laurie.  Most people assume Laurie is a woman, and there is some internal evidence to substantiate this, but as other reviewers have pointed out, Laurie could just as well be a man, and in some ways, the story makes more sense if he is.<br /><br />Regardless of Laurie's gender, the story revolves principally around her/his Aunt Dot, one of the great British eccentrics, and her escapades on a journey through Turkey and into the Soviet Union.  Her adventures, and those of Laurie, the camel, a monkey, and various other assorted characters, are hilarious.  At the same time, there is a sad note of wistfulness tand a sense of loss and deprivation that are not quite so easy to sort out.<br /><br />Read The Towers of Trebizond and laugh, but you'll be pondering it in more solemn moments for a long time to come.	2004-09-07
US	53031416	R2QGWQHLVGIZC5	0452265886	37624241	The Medical Detectives: The Classic Collection of Award-Winning Medical Investigative Reporting (Truman Talley)	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	Medical Mysteries from the 1940s Through The 1980s	This is a nice collection of stories, most of which originally appeared in The New Yorker, detailing medical mysteries from the 1940s through the 1980s.  Its interesting to see how medical knowledge has developed over the years and how similar mysteries confront medical investigators time and time again.  It would have been nice to have seen some updates of some more recent information, particularly on some of the older cases, but nevertheless this is an enjoyable collection of real life puzzlers.	2004-08-31
US	53031416	R7IOSI4RQ3B7N	0812967380	880640215	Old Herbaceous: A Novel of the Garden (Modern Library Gardening)	Books	5	42	43	N	Y	A Nice Old Story About  A Nice Old Time	Old Herbaceous was first published in about 1950.  It is the fictional chronicle of the life of Old Herbaceous, the head gardener at an English manor house.  He begins life as a foundling child, early develops a love for flowers which grow along an abandoned canal, and then becomes a gardener at the manor house after impressing the Lady of the Manor at a garden show.  Gradually he rises through the ranks of gardeners to eventually become head gardener.<br /><br />This book is pleasing for several reasons.  First, it helps us understand what a complex thing an English manor house must have been, with its ranks of servants and underlings.  Secondly, it has beautiful descriptions of flowers, shrubs, trees, and other elements of the English countryside.  Finally, its a great social history in microcosm of the changes England underwent from the 1870s through the World War II era.<br /><br />In many ways Old Herbaceous is another Goodbye Mr. Chips: a short quiet book about a seemingly unimportant individual who turns out to be much more than he appears.	2004-08-31
US	53031416	R3AOPHE9BVJBLC	1582342849	537404137	Sixpence House: Lost in A Town Of Books	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Amusingly Eccentric	This is a really nice little history of the year Paul Collins and his wife and son spent living in Hay-on-Wye the book town on the Welsh border.  Ostensibly the book is about living with and selling books, but it rambles on in a pleasingly stream of conciousness manner about life with kids, differences between England and the US, and a whole host of other subjects.  You'll love Sixpence House if you love books, England, people, old houses, or any mixture of them in any particular order.	2004-08-29
US	53031416	R1KCE6A2PRXEHG	0785260757	903434152	The Many Faces of John Kerry	Books	1	23	71	N	N	Trite and Pathetic	You have to hand it to the extreme Right Wing:  they can always vilainize anyone, at any time, at any place.  David Bossie, in his spare time from pursuing the Republican agenda at taxpayer's expense in the House of Representatives, has produced what he undoubtedly believes to be a stunning indictment of the Democratic Presidential nominee.<br /><br />In a word:  trite.  In another word:  pathetic.  Mr. Bossie has been a very busy boy tracking down every statement, every speech, and every interview Senator Kerry has given over the past twenty years and analyzing them for apparent contradictions and misstatements.  The only people who are convinced by this effort are people who share Mr. Bossie's own political views.  Of course Mr. Bossie is shocked by some of Senator Kerry's stands and positions.  Mr. Bossie is a Republican, and Senator Kerry is not.  But it is hubristic in the extreme to claim that just because Senator Kerry's views differ from one's own that they are therefore injurious to the Republic or just plain evil.  Furthermore, Mr. Bossie, apparently used to people like George W. Bush who rarely if ever ponder anything, gets upset when Senator Kerry thinks things through and sometimes actually changes his mind.  Mr. Bossie may not think that intellectual musings are an essential component of a Presidential mentality, but most of us will beg to differ.<br /><br />The air of righteous indignation suffusing this slim volume does not obscure some interesting observations which can be made about Mr. Bossie himself.  He apparently lacks any sense of irony, which becomes clear when he slams Senator Kerry's supposedly privileged background.  Apparently he has never stopped to consider that any patrician advantages enjoyed by Senator Kerry in his formative years were more than matched by those enjoyed (and heavily utilized)by Mr. Bossie's hero, George W. Bush himself.  Slamming the Eastern Establishment and fine old New England family backgrounds would therefore seem to be somewhat pointless and indeed counter productive this year at least.  (Perhaps Mr. Bossie would prefer a candidate who was born unprivileged in a very backwards environment and made his way to the top without family influence to help him?  If so, he should  take another look at Bill Clinton.)<br /><br />Mr. Bossie also waxes indignant over Senator Kerry's Vietnam exploits.  I suppose having a genuine military hero for an opponent must really gall Republicans whose own leaders displayed a conspicuous reluctance to go help the South Vietnamese fight off the Commies, even though the said leaders were otherwise gung ho supporters of that conflict.  However, to sneer at Senator Kerry's medals and to poke fun at those veterans who stand at his side (or who can no longer stand but must sit like Max Cleland) cheapens and denigrates all medals and all veterans, even those currently in the pay of the Republican campaign.  And to attack Senator Kerry for his former membership in an organization which had some members who advocated violence is to play the old McCarthyite gambit in a manner worthy of old Tailgunner Joe himself.  Therefore it is fitting to end my review with a paraphrase of the famous rebuke to Senator McCarthy in 1954:  \\"You have done enough.  Have you no decency, sir, at long last.  Have you left no sense of decency?\\"e seem to be somewhat pointless and indeed counter productive this year at least.  (Perhaps Mr. Bossie would prefer a candidate who was born unprivileged in a very backwards environment and made his way to the top without family influence to help him?  If so, he should  take another look at Bill Clinton.) <br /> <br />Mr. Bossie also waxes indignant over Senator Kerry's Vietnam exploits.  I suppose having a genuine military hero for an opponent must really gall Republicans whose own leaders displayed a conspicuous reluctance to go help the South Vietnamese fight off the Commies, even though the said leaders were otherwise gung ho supporters of that conflict.  However, to sneer at Senator Kerry's medals and to poke fun at those veterans who stand at his side (or who can no longer stand but must sit like Max Cleland) cheapens and denigrates all medals and all veterans, even those currently in the pay of the Republican campaign.  And to attack Senator Kerry for his former membership in an organization which had some members who advocated violence is to play the old McCarthyite gambit in a manner worthy of old Tailgunner Joe himself.  Therefore it is fitting to end my review with a paraphrase of the famous rebuke to Senator McCarthy in 1954:  \\"You have done enough.  Have you no decency, sir, at long last.  Have you left no sense of decency?\\"	2004-08-29
US	53031416	R36XM1NZODEFC7	0345457234	912625496	Return Engagement (Settling Accounts Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	War And Peace And War Again	This is the latest installment of Harry Turtledove's alternate history, which begins with  Confederate victories in the Civil War and the Second Mexican War of 1881. Now, in 1941, the stage is set for World War II.  Jake Featherston, the Fascist-style President of the CSA, is determined both to defeat the United States, thus avenging the South's loss in World War I, and to find a \\"final solution\\" to the black population in the South, which in Featherston's eyes treacherously stabbed the CSA in the back.  War begins on June 22, 1941, with a sneak attack by the CSA on the USA which splits the North through Ohio in a matter of a few weeks.<br /><br />Many characters from previous books in the series have returned.  I am particularly fond of Flora Hamburger Blackford,  Congresswoman from New York and former US First Lady, who I hope will eventually become President herself. The many characters tend to be confusing, as some of them are hardly memorable, but I suppose they are necessary in order to provide a full picture of the conflict.  Another Turtledove trick I enjoy is his habit of working real historical figures into the action, like Patton, FDR, and Churchill.<br /><br />I wish Turtledove would focus on fewer characters and round them out a bit more, and that he would give us more news of what's going on in the rest of the world while the war rages in North America.  (There are some hints of a British-French invasion of Western Europe and Germany, and of a Tsarist Russian invasion of Ukraine, but these are few and far between.) But even so, I'm enjoying this alternate history and hope Turtledove will carry it right through the twentieth century.	2004-08-24
US	53031416	R3RD8ZC796XXH1	0895260174	829131114	Unfit For Command: Swift Boat Veterans Speak Out Against John Kerry	Books	1	14	32	N	N	How Low Will They Go????	This book, and the television commercials which accompany it, are further proof that the Republican Party will not hesitate to slime even the most heroic individuals.  As a Georgian, I had the misfortune to witness an earlier version of this underhanded and vicious assault on the best of us in the 2002 Senate campaign, when a triple-amputee Vietnam veteran was accused of making common cause with Osama bin Laden.  But the scale of this monstrous assault on Senator John Kerry beggars even that infamous episode.  Perhaps the Republicans might not feel so outraged by men who served honorably in Vietnam if any of their own \\"leaders\\" had actually served there themselves.<br /><br />The men whose names are attached to this book and to the commercials all claim that Senator Kerry has misrepresented his war service.  Only a few years ago, however, these same men were loud in their praise of the Senator.  Some of them are proud to claim medals which they were awarded as a result of the same actions in which Senator Kerry took part.  In their eagerness to belittle Senator Kerry's heroism they downgrade their own, and more importantly, that of countless other men and women who served with distinction. That is the saddest part of this current Republican campaign of destruction in that so many of its victims will never have the chance to fight back and defend themselves.<br /><br />With the support of the men who were actually on his swift boat and who stand firmly behind him, Senator Kerry will weather this sneak attack as he has so many others.  Truly patriotic Americans will look to Senator Kerry and  those men who were actually there with him like William B. Rood of the Chicago Tribune, as well as to such brave and honorable men as Senator John McCain who denounce these Republican tactics, for examples of honor and decency in our public life.	2004-08-23
US	53031416	R39WOVJA55N5Z6	1594200181	829993811	Politics: Observations and Arguments, 1966-2004	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Elegantly Incisive	Hendrik Hertzberg has been one of the clearest and most articulate commentators on the American scene for nearly forty years.  As editor and writer at The New Republic and The New Yorker, he has set a standard for spare, simple prose that is both elegant and profound.<br /><br />The articles in Politics range far and wide, from commentary on presidential elections to reviews of concerts.  I particularly enjoyed Hertzberg's evaluation of Jimmy Carter and his Presidency (he was a speechwriter in that Administration) and his rueful analysis of how differently (and more wisely) an Al Gore Administration might have handled September 11 and its aftermath than did Bush.  It was also interesting to see how prescient Hertzberg was at times in predicting election outcomes and cultural trends, and how at other times he was completely off the mark.<br /><br />This is a book to be read carefully over a long period of time.  Keep it handy, especially during the next few months before November 2004, and dip into it when a dose of clearheadedness is required.	2004-08-16
US	53031416	R234TXJFYCVU9J	0750934379	412162717	Childhood at Court 1819-1914	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An Uncommon View of Royalty	Childhood at Court is an entertaining look at the lives of royal children at the British Court from 1819 to 1914, roughly the lifespan of Queen Victoria and her son Edward VII.  There have been innumerable biographies of Queen Victoria and her children, but none that have focussed only on their childhoods.  This book therefore fills a gap, and does so with an interesting, fresh style which makes use of plenty of anecdotes, some well known, others more obscure.  I was interested to come across some of these stories, because I have read many histories and biographies of the period, and many of Van der Kiste's anecdotes were brand new.  Both Queen Victoria and her son Edward VII had childhoods best described as dysfunctional, but its interesting to see how the future king seems to have learned from his parents' mistakes and given his own children a happier upbringing.  Queen Victoria also seems to have mellowed as she grew older, and its nice to read about the antics her younger grandchildren and great-grandchildren were allowed to get away with, like slapping the Queen's hand and saying &quot;Naughty Grandmamma!!&quot;<br />This is a nice addition to anyone's library of books about royals or books about children.	2004-07-13
US	53031416	R26K7CQA2V0T0I	0609610627	301770056	Genghis Khan and the Making of the Modern World	Books	5	3	5	N	N	It All Started With the Mongols	This is a dual biography, of Genghis Khan the man and of the empire he created.  Born Temujin in an obscure branch of an obscure group of nomads in Central Asia, Genghis Khan first gained supreme power over the Mongols, whom he unified and turned into a superb fighting machine, then proceeded to conquer much of Eurasia.  Weatherford occasionally has to refute some romantic legends that have grown up around Genghis Khan and his family, but the truth is dynamic enough.<br />Of especial interest is Weatherford's coverage of the after effects of Genghis Khan's empire.  The Mongol Empire lasted for only about a century, but its influence lingers on.  Cross regional trade tied Europe, Asia, and the Middle East motightly together than ever before.  An efficient communications system enabled information to spread at an unprecedented pace.  So much of what we regard as essential accoutrements of our modern world can be traced back to the Mongols.<br />Yes, the stories of Mongol cruelty and ruthlessness are accurate and Weatherford fully covers them, but this book makes clear that without the Mongol influence, our world today might be much poorer.	2004-07-07
US	53031416	R2UVXLZ50VQ0M7	0312283121	333487848	The Lost King of France: A True Story of Revolution, Revenge, and DNA	Books	5	4	4	N	N	DNA and History: Providing Long Lost Answers	Deborah Cadbury has reopened an old mystery:  what happened to King Louis XVII, the child of Louis XVI and Marie Antoinette, who was born to luxury in Versailles Palace, then became a victim of the French Revolution, moving from palace to prison and losing his parents, sister, aunt, and finally his own life.<br />The book begins with a summary of the main events of the Revolution as they affected young Louis-Charles, the Dauphin, who was only four when the Bastille was stormed.  Over the next four years Louis-Charles lost his possessions and his family.  He was kept in prison, brutalized by the guards and deprived of the companionship of his older sister.  He remembered his mother and brought flowers to her cell door months after her execution.  His death at the age of about ten must have been a merciful release.<br />The next part of the book deals with the odyssey of the Dauphin's heart, which was spirited out of the prison by one of the doctors who examined the boy's body.  We also learn of the many pretenders who claimed to be the Dauphin and of the pain they caused Marie-Therese, the only surviving child of Louis XVI.<br />Finally, we learn how the process of determining the real identity of the heart through DNA analysis developed in the 1990s.  After reading of the travails little Louis-Charles endured in prison, it is comforting to know that at long last we know his ultimate fate, thanks to learning and technology undreamed of in his own time.	2004-07-05
US	53031416	R10QC08FMA6GQD	0060580100	945987328	Hating America: The New World Sport	Books	1	39	94	N	N	Bustling Ignorance	I have to start my review with a paraphrased quote from  Goethe &quot;A bustling ignorance is truly frightening&quot; because it is truly applicable to this work.  Mr. Gibson begins his diatribe with a description of the experiences of a friend of his in the World Trade Center on September 11, 2001.  After such a beginning, one would expect the next chapters to deal with Al Qaeda, or Sadaam Hussein, or the Taliban.  Actually the next chapter deals with . . . France!  Mr. Gibson then goes on to blast Germany, Britain, Arabs and Muslims in general without discrimination, the cunningly nicknamed Axis of Envy (Canada, South Korea, and Belgium, well known rogue terrorist states), before finally moving on to his real target, the Democratic Party.<br />Make no mistake, this is not a study of anti-American feelings in the world, but a political work designed to rally the troops around an increasingly beleaguered Administration by using that well known McCarthyite tactic of demonizing its enemies.<br />Mr. Gibson ignores or mitigates the Bush Administration's missteps, blunders, and lies. He sneers at those who have honest differences of opinion with the Administration's policies, here and abroad, and characterizes debate as treason. These are sentiments one would expect to be aired by  propagandists for dictatorships, not by journalists in a democracy.<br />Here in the US we have unfortunately come to recognize this sort of name calling and distortion as the norm in our politics. It is to be hoped that European and Asian readers of Mr. Gibson's diatribe will realize that not all Americans have forgotten the blanket of flowers in front of the US Embassy in Paris on September 12, 2001, or the throngs of weeping people waving US flags in Asian and European cities, or the sound of &quot;The Star Spangled Banner&quot; being played in front of Buckingham Palace, or the activation of NATO's mutual defense agreements for the first time that dark September.<br />Mr. Gibson wants the US to forget that outpouring of good will and love, and also the widespread international support we had in the invasion of Afghanistan that fall.  He wants us to forget all that, because if we remember it, the obvious question to ask is &quot;Why does the Administration of the most powerful nation on earth have so little international credibility?&quot;  The answer to that question cannot be found by making snide attacks on other nations or by smearing the political opposition at home, but through the recognition that the Administration in question is badly flawed and deserves to be replaced.s the US to forget that outpouring of good will and love, and also the widespread international support we had in the invasion of Afghanistan that fall.  He wants us to forget all that, because if we remember it, the obvious question to ask is &quot;Why does the Administration of the most powerful nation on earth have so little international credibility?&quot;  The answer to that question cannot be found by making snide attacks on other nations or by smearing the political opposition at home, but through the recognition that the Administration in question is badly flawed and deserves to be replaced.	2004-06-22
US	53031416	R36RHYP2MR341S	0465037186	903649002	Gunpowder: Alchemy, Bombards, And Pyrotechnics: The History Of The Explosive That Changed The World	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	Fascinating History	Gunpowder is the sort of history book that should be written more often:  it shows the larger history of the world through the story of one small, but highly important, component.  In this case that component is, of course, gunpowder.  Jack Kelly traces the history of this material from China through the Middle East into Europe and the rest of the world.  Kelly explains the different ways in which gunpowder changed the course of events.  He gives vignettes of battles like Crecy and the Siege of Petersburg to illustrate the important role gunpowder weapons played.  Along the way he drops fascinating little nuggets of material, like the real reason Joan of Arc was a success, that are intriguing enough to encourage further study.<br />Kelly is not a professional historian but a novelist, and his writing flows smoothly.  He does not bother with footnotes, but he does provide a good summary of his sources (which are excellent) at the end. This is a book which will be well worth the reading and many subsequent rereadings.	2004-06-13
US	53031416	R1T8RW6U3CK3OE	1594200130	388201475	Colossus: The Price of America's Empire	Books	4	21	27	N	Y	An Interesting View Of Imperialism	Niall Ferguson has made quite a name for himself by taking a counterfactual view of subjects like World War I and the British Empire.  In Colossus he maintains that the US is imperialistic, should not be ashamed of being imperialistic, and in fact should be encouraged to be even more imperialistic, both now in Iraq and in the future as well.<br />As in Empire, his history of the British Empire, Ferguson believes that imperialism, particularly what he calls liberal imperialism, is highly desirable in that it provides stable governments and institutions.  There seem to be some blind spots n his view, however.  Ferguson claims that imperialism is needed to overcome the multitudinous problems of the Third World.  But weren't many of those problems caused by imperialism in the first place?  Ferguson also claims that earlier imperialists went out and imperialized in order to do good, citing a quote from Toynbee as evidence. Of course its always nice to claim that you are doing something for someone else's own good, but most of the time people see through it pretty quickly. Ferguson also dismisses the original governments and societies of areas that were imperialized as being ineffective and impractical, but surely the people living under them would not necessarily agree.<br />There are many other holes that can be poked in Ferguson's arguments, but even so the book is well written and highly thought provoking. It ought to be read at this moment, when the question of American involvement in Iraq and elsewhere is in many people's minds.	2004-06-10
US	53031416	RCXTFCG16CYA	1400052688	164626155	Sleeping with the Devil: How Washington Sold Our Soul for Saudi Crude	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Bluntly Informative	Robert Baer does not mince words.  In Sleeping With the Devil he forcefully describes  the United States' long tangled relationship with what must be one of the most dysfunctional states in the world:  Saudi Arabia.  A former CIA agent, Baer served for many years and was well positioned to observe the nation long touted as our best friend in the Middle East.  He describes in chilling detail the corruption surrounding the House of Saud and the growing unrest and poverty that afflicts a kingdom whose citizens would be among the best off in the world if they had a decent government.<br />There's plenty of blame to go around, and Baer shovels it out left and right, starting with Franklin Roosevelt and the Americans who made the original oil deals with the Saudis in the 1930s and 1940s, through Richard Nixon, Ronald Reagan, Bush I, Clinton, and Bush II.<br />When you finish reading this book, you are left with the uncomfortable realization that the Western economy rests in large part in the hands of a group of playboys who govern a country which is growing increasingly restless.  This book will help you understand why so many of the 9-11 hijackers were Saudis, and why Osama bin Laden and Al Qaeda have such wide appeal.  You will also realize that even if we do manage to pull out of Iraq without much more bloodloss, we are most likely only at the beginning of what promises to be an extraordinarily violent period of heavy involvement in the Middle East. Thanks to Baer, those who read his book will at least have the comfort of being able to say &quot;I saw it coming!&quot;	2004-06-06
US	53031416	R1VL12IA08SNXF	1400048753	386400734	The Republican Noise Machine: Right-Wing Media and How It Corrupts Democracy	Books	5	49	58	N	N	An Insider's View Of The Vast Right Wing Conspiracy	David Brock knows whereof he speaks, having been a highly paid member of the Vast Right Wing Conspiracy.  Fortunately for the country, he has changed his ways and is now seeking to make amends for the damage he and his former cohorts have done.  The Republican Noise Machine, like its predecessor Blinded By The Right, gives names, dates, and places in stunning detail of the ways in which the Right Wing has seized control of a significant portion of the media resources of our nation.  Using their access to the airwaves to spew propaganda, the Right Wing has sought to set the political agenda of this country as effectively as Goebbels managed the Third Reich's news organs.  To a frightening extent, they have succeeded so well that truly &quot;fair and balanced&quot; reporting is threatened. Brock gives example after example of how dissenting points of view are drowned out or squeezed to the sidelines, how the party line is set by the powerful and transmitted verbatim to the faithful, and how ruthlessly opposition is squelched.  The true victims,besides the truth itself, are the honest, honorable citizens who are misled and manipulated.<br />Fortunately, Brock and a few other brave souls have taken on the job of exposing this power hungry, hypocritical media machine. With daylight, it is to be hoped, the shadows threatening us will withdraw.	2004-06-05
US	53031416	R39CANJI719BH	0060736682	254771706	Rewriting History	Books	1	35	126	N	N	Same Song, Seventy Seventh Verse	Contributing to the hate Clinton oeuvre must be considerably simpler now than it was just a few years ag. There have been so many publications (one hesitates to call them books) dedicated to the proposition that Bill and Hillary Clinton are devil's spawn or worse that it is now a simple matter to create another.  Just comb through the others, rearrange the charges, insinuations, and generalizations, add a few more if you are so inclined and voila, Regnery or Newsmax or some similar publishing company will be lining up to print it.<br />All this is by way of saying that Rewriting History is yet another hatchet job on Senator Hillary Clinton.  She can't do right, every thing she does do has a political motive, she is treacherous, etc, etc. Most of Rewriting History is devoted to categorizing the numerous times Senator Clinton has not told the truth.  Now it seems to me that being a politician more or less precludes honesty, I'm sorry to say, but having said that I also need to point out that nothing Hillary Clinton has said that is supposedly untrue is all that important anyway.  Who cares if she played soccer in high school or not? Yes, it would be wonderful if she always told the truth, but I don't see anything too unusual in these supposed misstatements.  In fact,  I would be willing to bet that any other politician (even the sainted W himself) would be found to have a pretty long record of untruthful statements if he were subjected to the same sort of sanctimonious, self-righteous scrutiny the Senator and her husband have been under for the last quarter century or so.<br />This brings up another charge made against the Senator, that she is paranoid and highly suspicious of The Vast Right Wing Conspiracy.  Well, pardon me, but isn't there a pretty large amount of evidence to substantiate a certain feeling of &quot;they're out to get us&quot; on the part of the Clinton family?  And if paranoia disqualifies one from public office, then a large portion of the Extreme Right Wing in this country is therefore unelectable (would that it were so!)<br />Another aspect of this work worthy of mention is the cleverness with which Morris makes dark insinuations against the Senator.  For example, he mentions that she worked in the law offices of Robert Treuhaft for a time in the 1970s, and Treuhaft and his wife Jessica Mitford were (gasp) COMMUNISTS back in the 1950s. This is no big secret, Mitford having written a couple of books about her political activities, but mentioning it in this book is a tactic worthy of old Tailgunner Joe McCarthy himself. This Mitford connection, by the way, could also be used to claim that Senator Clinton wants to be in with the British aristocracy or with Fascists (Mitford was daughter of a Lord and sister-in-law of a Duke and of the former leader of the British Fascists.) Mr. Morris overlooked these insinuations, but perhaps he can work them in to a second edition, if there is one.<br />Personally, I have no strong feelings about Senator Clinton's fitness to be President.  If she ever runs for that office, I intend to spend a lot of time examining her record and evaluating her campaign. But one thing that inclines me to be sympathetic to her is the volume and odiousness of the campaign against her as exemplified by works like Rewriting History.  There is an old saying that you are known by your enemies.  Senator Clinton is undoubtedly proud to have enemies like Mr. Morris and his ilk.Right Wing in this country is therefore unelectable (would that it were so!)<br />Another aspect of this work worthy of mention is the cleverness with which Morris makes dark insinuations against the Senator.  For example, he mentions that she worked in the law offices of Robert Treuhaft for a time in the 1970s, and Treuhaft and his wife Jessica Mitford were (gasp) COMMUNISTS back in the 1950s. This is no big secret, Mitford having written a couple of books about her political activities, but mentioning it in this book is a tactic worthy of old Tailgunner Joe McCarthy himself. This Mitford connection, by the way, could also be used to claim that Senator Clinton wants to be in with the British aristocracy or with Fascists (Mitford was daughter of a Lord and sister-in-law of a Duke and of the former leader of the British Fascists.) Mr. Morris overlooked these insinuations, but perhaps he can work them in to a second edition, if there is one.<br />Personally, I have no strong feelings about Senator Clinton's fitness to be President.  If she ever runs for that office, I intend to spend a lot of time examining her record and evaluating her campaign. But one thing that inclines me to be sympathetic to her is the volume and odiousness of the campaign against her as exemplified by works like Rewriting History.  There is an old saying that you are known by your enemies.  Senator Clinton is undoubtedly proud to have enemies like Mr. Morris and his ilk.	2004-06-05
US	53031416	R13VI79Q9O3JGC	0871136651	912348493	Twilight of the Habsburgs: The Life and Times of Emperor Francis Joseph	Books	5	39	39	N	N	Gently Revisionist	Twilight of the Habsburgs is a nice biography of the Emperor Francis Joseph and his times.  Francis Joseph ruled the Hapsburg lands from 1848 to 1916.  He is usually seen as an obtuse, stubborn old autocrat who refused to change with the times and thus doomed his empire to collapse.  Alan Palmer takes a somewhat revisionist view of the Emperor, pointing out that he had a far better mind than he is normally credited with (although handicapped by a very poor education) and was willing to make reforms when necessary (of course he rarely saw the necessity on his own). Even when he did see the need to change, he often waited until it was too late.  For example, in mid 1916 he talked of pulling his country out of World War I in the spring of 1917.  What if he had gone ahead and made peace in the summer of 1916?  Maybe a shorter war, no Russian Revolution, no American intervention, the mind reels with the implications!  But unfortunately he put that decision off and died before he could implement it.<br />The strongest portions of this book deal with Francis Joseph's personal life.  I felt sorry for the poor man, dealing in turn with a bossy mother, a flighty wife he loved dearly, a son who wasted his great abilities and committed suicide, and a host of nephews and cousins who couldn't behave themselves and certainly didn't give him the support he needed. His life was full of losses, a brother executed in Mexico, his wife assassinated, his son a suicide, and finally his nephew and heir's murder bringing on a World War.  At least he had one friend, an actress he visited for years in a platonic relationship.  Its nice to think of him laughing with her over coffee, it must have been the only chance he had to relax!<br />Francis Joseph was not a brilliant or especially bright, but he did his duty as he saw it and stuck to it right to the end.  It is this that makes him admirable today.	2004-06-04
US	53031416	R1XP6YZ13U2YNO	0750930497	250669605	The Camera and the Tsars: A Romanov Family Album	Books	5	22	23	N	Y	Views of a Vanished World	The Camera and the Tsars is a well organized collection of photographs of the extended Romanov family from the mid 1800s through the post-Revolutionary period.  As with her earlier work Queen Victoria's Family, Charlotte Zeepvat has done an excellent job of seeking out many photographs of the more obscure members of the family to give us a more rounded view of the Imperial Family than we usually get from the standard photos seen over and over again.<br />When I looked through this book I was struck by what a good looking group of people the Romanovs were.  The photos are a mixture of formal portraits and snapshots (many taken by the Romanovs themselves), and in most of them the subjects are nice, pleasant seeming people not at all overwhelmed by the formal settings and clothing.  The men mostly seem to have been rugged outdoor types, and the women rather romantic and elegant, with some quite beautiful. The children are really cute, too. Interestingly, most of them are smiling, which is rather unusual for nineteenth century photography. There are even some smiling pictures of Alexandra, the last Tsaritsa, who is usually stone faced in most of her portraits.  Its also interesting to see how the passage of years changed some of the people.  I particularly liked Grand Princess Alexandra Iosipovna, who married one of Nicholas I's sons (and is Prince Philip's great-grandmother).  She went from being a fresh faced young girl to an elegant matron to a magnificent grande dame. Also Grand Princess Maria Pavlovna the elder, whose pictures could be used for a dictionary illustration for &quot;distinguished&quot; or &quot;imposing&quot;. Even though the pictures are all black and white, you can imagine how the jewels must have glittered and the silks and satins gleamed and rustled.<br />The final few pictures showing the post-Revolutionary surviving Romanovs are particularly evocative.  These are people who have lost a lot and endured enormous pain, and it shows on their still dignified, but very sad, faces.<br />This is a book all Romanov aficionados will want.  It will also appeal to anyone interested in photography, fashion, or just human beings themselves.ignified, but very sad, faces.<br />This is a book all Romanov aficionados will want.  It will also appeal to anyone interested in photography, fashion, or just human beings themselves.	2004-06-03
US	53031416	RJ96Y5KPM2AK4	0785260137	275368883	Hillary's Secret War: The Clinton Conspiracy to Muzzle Internet Journalists	Books	1	39	192	N	N	The Right Wing Conspiracy At Work	One would suppose that Internet journalists like Richard Poe would feel a debt of gratitude to President and Senator Clinton.  After all, it was during the Clinton Administration that the Internet spread into every corner of American society and made sites like the Drudge Report possible.  And it was the various Clinton scandals that fed the drive to create site after site devoted to &quot;news&quot; catering to the Far Right.<br />Instead of being thankful, the Vast Right Wing Conspiracy has now come up with a new charge, that Hillary Clinton did her best to destroy those Internet journalists to keep them from exposing her nefarious dealings as First Lady, and that this campaign has continued now that she is the junior Senator from New York.<br />One's first reaction to this charge is that, if it is true, Senator Clinton is remarkably inept in dealing with her enemies.  There has, after all, been no shortage of Right Wingers on the Internet, talk radio, Fox, and other venues.  One would suppose that if a woman as intelligent as Senator Clinton was really so determined to do away with those who oppose her as this book maintains, that she would do a better job of it.<br />Another interesting but troubling observation about this publication is Mr. Poe's assumption that the Right Wing's campaign against the Clintons was so decent and so upright that any opposition to it, even one orchestrated by the Clintons themselves (and most people would grant them the right of self defense at least), is inherently evil. Thus dissent is sadly confused with disloyalty, and the American tradition of open debate is subverted.  It does not seem to occur to Mr. Poe that such an assumption can work both ways.  One feels certain that Mr. Poe views with equanimity the well known efforts of the present Administration to squelch dissent and label its opponents traitors.<br />It seems fitting to end this review of this revival of McCarthyism with Joseph Welch's famous rebuke to Tailgunner Joe in 1954:  &quot;Have you no sense of decency, sir, at long last?  Have you left no sense of decency?&quot;Joe in 1954:  &quot;Have you no sense of decency, sir, at long last?  Have you left no sense of decency?&quot;	2004-05-19
US	53031416	R23NV0RIXR7FC	0895260905	144718909	The Real Jimmy Carter: How Our Worst Ex-President Undermines American Foreign Policy, Coddles Dictators and Created the Party of Clinton and Kerry	Books	1	43	125	N	N	The Real Far Right At Work	One surefire way of telling when the American Radical Right is feeling the heat is to visit the local bookstore and check out the latest ravings against the Clintons, John Kerry, and other Democratic notables.  Judging from the tone of this infelicitous work, the Radical Right Wing is really under pressure.<br />In this work (one hesitates to dignify it with the term book) Steven F. Hayward targets the 39th President (and Nobel laureate) nearly a quarter of a century after he left office.  In common with other publications of this caliber, Mr. Heyward has produced a plethora of hysterical overgeneralizations and pure kerflummery. Those who pause to dig beneath the air of righteous indignation will quickly recognize the shallowness of Mr. Heyward's accusations.  For example, Mr. Heyward charges President Carter with disloyalty because he did not care for Ronald Reagan's policies.  But, after all, wasn't President Carter defeated by Mr. Reagan in 1980?  Is it to be expected that a former adversary would wholeheartedly embrace policies he finds offensive?  Is it really disloyal, as Mr. Heyward implies, to oppose the President? If it is, then one would be safe in assuming that Mr. Heyward and his supporters were in a continuous state of treason from January 20, 1993 to January 20, 2001!  Another of Mr. Heyward's charges is that President Carter has dealt with dictators and undermined the US position repeatedly since leaving office.  While some may disagree with President Carter's actions, to claim that his actions are traitorous is to grossly overstate the case.  Furthermore, to criticize one former President for travelling abroad and meeting with foreign leaders is to make a case for criticizing all of them.  I doubt that Mr. Hayward and his partisans would welcome similar criticisms of Mr. Reagan, Mr. George H. W. Bush, and (it is to be hoped after next January) Mr. George W. Bush.<br />This points out the most disturbing aspect of works of this sort.  By accusing those who disagree with the government of disloyalty, Mr. Heyward and others of his ilk undermine the very institution they claim to defend.  This McCarthyite tactic deserves the same reproof that Joseph Welch delivered to Tailgunner Joe back in 1954: &quot;Have you no sense of decency?&quot;se who disagree with the government of disloyalty, Mr. Heyward and others of his ilk undermine the very institution they claim to defend.  This McCarthyite tactic deserves the same reproof that Joseph Welch delivered to Tailgunner Joe back in 1954: &quot;Have you no sense of decency?&quot;	2004-05-19
US	53031416	R3S6ER4UXR5FLO	0595093841	789043765	One Summer in Between	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	Nostalgic And Historic	I first read One Summer In Between many years ago as a child in a Reader's Digest Condensed Book from about 1967.  The story stuck with me, and I was glad to find it has been republished and is now available once more.<br />This book is interesting on several levels.  First, Harriet Brown, the young African American college student who goes north to work for the Daleys, an eccentric Vermont farming family, is very appealing, as are most of the rest of the major characters.  Secondly, the book was written during the 1960s civil rights movement and it does a good job of depicting the struggles of that period.  For example, Harriet arrives with a large chip on her shoulder.  She doesn't want to be condescended to or patronized, and she can't figure out what the Daleys want from her.  The Daleys themselves are obviously liberal minded and welcoming, but they can't understand Harriet and her background any more than she understands them.  The third reason to buy this book is that this dilemma is appealingly worked out and is at least on the road to being solved by the end of the book.  Finally, I like this book because it reminds us of the positive side of the 1960s: the idealism, the certainty that people of good will can solve their problems by listening and seeking understanding.  Its a good book to read in this cynical day and age.	2004-05-18
US	53031416	R38EJVXV4V23FV	0375506101	766319634	Bill Clinton: An American Journey: Great Expectations	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Our 42nd President, His Life And Times	This is the best biography of President Clinton yet published.  Nigel Hamilton covers Clinton's life up to his election in November 1992.  He does a great job of describing Clinton's background, parentage, and early years.  I realized for the first time (and I have read numerous Clinton studies) just how poor and unprivileged a background the President came from, and how truly remarkable it was that anyone with so many strikes agaisnt him rose so far so quickly.  Hamilton also provides some interesting psychological insights into Clinton's well known moral weaknesses and failings, so that the reader gets a better understanding of this enormously complex (and very human) individual.  Hamilton does an excellent job of covering the historic events which influenced Clinton's growth, so that this is not just a biography, but a history of modern America and the world.<br />Clinton phobics will not enjoy this book because it is truly &quot;fair and balanced.&quot; But if you are looking for the truth, and would like some insights into President Clinton before reading his own memoirs, this book is an excellent beginning.	2004-05-18
US	53031416	RBLLUOKITA4CK	0375725601	517121775	The Devil in the White City: Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Historic and Hitchcockian	This is a dual tale.  First Erik Larson gives us the fascinating story of the Chicago Columbian Exposition of 1893.  This World's Fair was a demonstration that America, particularly Midwestern America, could compete successfully with the Old World.  Larson describes the intricate planning and painstaking attention to detail that accompanied every day of the fair, and introduces us to the many personalities like Frederick Law Olmsted who made the fair a reality.<br />Running alongside the story of the fair itself is the tale of a pyschopathic personality who imprisoned and murdered numerous young women and children while the fair was going on.  The tale of this criminal's career and the steps taken to finally track him down and punish him is just as fascinating as the story of the fair itself.<br />To sum up, this book's story of the Columbian Exposition is a wonderful history lesson.  Its story of the psychotic murder is a tale worthy of Alfred Hitchcock himself.  Such a combination is a rarity to be savored.	2004-05-17
US	53031416	R1HUHPM7MKVEZO	1400060338	308372967	The Perfect Prince: The Mystery of Perkin Warbeck and His Quest for the Throne of England	Books	5	26	26	N	N	A Fascinating Historical Mystery	I really enjoyed The Perfect Prince for several reasons.  First, it covers a fascinating period of English and European history, the late 1400s when the Europeans were beginning to stretch beyond their own borders into other continents like Africa and the Americas.  At the same time the European nation states were in the final stages of coalescence, so that terms like &quot;England&quot; and &quot;France&quot; were beginning to have more than just rough geographical meanings.  Secondly, I liked this book for its detailed coverage of the mystery of the vanished Princes and whether or not Perkin Warbeck was actually Richard, Duke of York. This is one of the oldest European historical mysteries, but it is just as intriguing as more modern conundrums, such as what happened to the Dauphin in 1793 or to two of the last Tsar's children in 1918.  Thirdly, this book is beautifully written, with fine psychological insights into Perkin himself, King Henry VII, Margaret of Burgundy, and numerous others who tend to be considered mere names in dry as dust annals.<br />So I recommend this book to students of royal and/or English history and to anyone who enjoys a fine, well told tale of mystery and intrigue.	2004-05-09
US	53031416	R2FRH96VPZYFWU	0375411569	597967363	Europe's Last Summer: Who Started the Great War in 1914?	Books	4	38	48	N	N	Well Organized, But Not Necessarily Original	David Fromkin has produced a convenient summary of the events of the summer of 1914.  If you want to know what happened on one particular day during those fateful July and August weeks, this book is particularly suitable in that it covers events day by day and almost hour by hour. The short, choppy chapters tend to be repetitive at times, and Fromkin's tendency to refer to other authors' ideas can be annoying if, like most of us, one is not familiar with their writings.<br />Fromkin's most interesting point is that the war was actually two conflicts: one a local Austrian-Serbian conflict that was quickly forgotten by everyone else, and the second a long planned move by the Germans to prevent what they saw as their inevitable decline in Europe. In light of recent events in Iraq, Fromkin also does a good job of explaining how carefully laid plans can spin out of control and turn what was planned to be a short war into a long drawn out quagmire.<br />This is a short summary of a very complex subject.  It will be satisfactory for those who want or need a quick look at the beginning of the Great War.  Those who desire a more indepth study should refer to the classic: Barbara Tuchman's The Guns of August.	2004-04-08
US	53031416	R2NZ260ITI5RG3	1586482327	721075125	Booknotes on American Character: People, Politics, and Conflict in American History	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Highly Accessible History	This is the best of the Booknotes books yet.  In a series of short chapters drawn from interviews on C-Span's Booknotes program, Brian Lamb and the many authors provide absorbing insights into American history.  Some of the choices are a bit jarring (I would certainly not have chosen to begin such a thoughtful book with excerpts from Ann Coulter and Michael Moore) but all of them are provocative and ultimately thought provoking.  This is a book to keep at hand and savor for months if not years.	2004-04-08
US	53031416	R232ME068UZOLD	0393019691	871008413	The Great Pretenders: The True Stories Behind Famous Historical Mysteries	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Intriguing Mysteries	The Great Pretenders is a collection of stories about famous historical mysteries, mostly involving missing royals or nobles from the nineteenth century.  If you are an aficionado of royal histories from that period you've probably already read quite a bit about the subjects presented here, like the missing Dauphin or Kaspar Hauser or Fedor Kuzmich, but nevertheless its nice to have the stories encapsulated in a quick, well written series of chapters like this one.  Its also interesting to see how much DNA has been used in recent years to help verify or debunk some of these stories.  Some of the selections seem a bit off, for example the story of the Tichborne Claimant is interesting history but it could hardly be considered a case of a missing heir, being actually a pretty obvious case of attempted fraud, but that is no reason not to enjoy this book.	2004-03-28
US	53031416	R3TJY18ARLJGTS	0743260244	924900643	Against All Enemies: Inside America's War on Terror	Books	5	50	56	N	N	Really Fair and Balanced!!!!	Richard A. Clarke was America's senior counter terrorism expert during four Administrations, and his memoir provides a rare eyewitness account of the events of the 1980s and 1990s which led up to 9/11. Unlike most purported histories of the period which have been published in recent months, Clarke does not have an ideological axe to grind.  He merely wants to tell the truth as he saw it.  As such, this book will be an important resource for many years to come.<br />Clarke is that now rare individual who can put principle above politics.  Its pretty obvious that he is a Republican, but he provides an honest assessment of the Reagan, GHW Bush, Clinton, and GW Bush Administrations and their successes and failures in dealing with terrorism.  Each of the first three Presidencies comes in for criticism as well as blame.  The only Administration which failed utterly, in his view, is the present one, and he marshalls an impressive array of evidence to support his stand.  From the first few pages, which describe the scramble in the White House as 9/11 unfolded, through the entire book, Clarke points out the failures of Bush, Cheney, Rice, Rumsfeld and Company to come to grips with the danger Al Qaeda presented and then to deal effectively with the menace once it had been thrust in their faces.  The most heartfelt sections deal with the bizarre decision to use 9/11 as a pretext to move against Iraq in defiance of all the evidence Clarke had to present.  Clarke's descriptions of the Bush team's single minded determination to go after Saddam rather than Al Qaeda and other missteps ought to be major campaign topics this fall.<br />Richard A. Clarke is a good man and a good American.  It is to be hoped that after next January 20th he will have the chance to serve yet another Administration.  He and the country deserve much better than what we have now.	2004-03-28
US	53031416	R382J31DJ808GK	1402202520	936823164	Fraud: The Strategy Behind the Bush Lies and Why the Media Didn't Tell You	Books	5	48	53	N	N	An Overdue Indictment	Here at last we have a long overdue indictment of the Bush Administration and its lies, coverups, machinations, and distortions.  Paul Waldman has investigated the strategy by which this uninspiring twig from one of the least distinguished American political families in history rose to power.<br />Waldman also reveals the complicity of most of the American media, which wilfully ignored Bush's misstatements and lies in the 2000 campaign and painted Bush as a good old boy with an awshucks attitude.<br />It is fortunate that this book has appeared now and can be used during the 2004 campaign.  Hopefully this time the media won't have its blinders on and nothing W., Karl Rove, and the other henchmen can do can foist another four years of gibberish, war, and economic collapse down our throats.	2004-02-29
US	53031416	RT49CZFMG1RDN	0895260670	355836637	Madame Hillary: The Dark Road to the White House	Books	1	25	62	N	N	Smug, Snotty, and Silly	R. Emmett Tyrrell has made something of a career for himself bashing the Clinton family.  In this book, for which he has been joined by Mark W. Davis, he continues to take the low road he began with The American Spectator and Boy Clinton.<br />Mr. Tyrell and Mr. Davis pretend intimate knowledge of Senator Clinton's future plans.  Since I doubt either of them has ever spoken more than a few words with her at most, the source of this knowledge must remain mysterious.  In common with other entries in the hate Clinton oeuvre, paranoid speculations, hysterical overgeneralizations, and pure kerflummery make up the bulk of this slim volume, accentuated with an air of righteous indignation.<br />A major feature of Mr. Tyrrell and Mr. Davis' production is their air of snobbery.  Obviously the Clintons are just not good enough to share the same planet with them.  Somehow I don't think this bothers President and Senator Clinton one bit, which undoubtedly annoys Mr. Tyrrell and Mr. Davis immensely.<br />Another aspect worthy of note are the continuous efforts by the authors to be witty and debonair. Unfortunately, these efforts fall far short of humor and struggle to reach the level of snottiness one might find scribbled on the walls of a junior high school boys' bathroom.  A few examples will suffice:  They think it clever to call Senator Clinton's book Livid History.  Pictures of her many hairstyles arouse great hilarity. A photo of the Senator shading her eyes becomes a practice military salute.  Somehow they weren't able to find a photo of the Senator making an apparent Sieg Heil! or raising the clenched fist of Marxism, but I'm sure its not for lack of effort. Beneath all the merry fun making, a careful reader can hear Mr. Tyrrell and Mr. Davis' teeth grinding, since no amount of smugness can conceal two Presidential terms, a Senate election, high popularity ratings, and a best selling book.<br />People with Mr. Tyrrell and Mr. Davis' creative imaginations ought to busy themselves with more worthy projects than this.  (Perhaps they should look into creating an adulatory biography of George W. Bush.) As for President and Senator Clinton, there is an old saying &quot;You are known by your enemies.&quot;  The Clintons are undoubtedly proud of such enemies as these.emselves with more worthy projects than this.  (Perhaps they should look into creating an adulatory biography of George W. Bush.) As for President and Senator Clinton, there is an old saying &quot;You are known by your enemies.&quot;  The Clintons are undoubtedly proud of such enemies as these.	2004-02-26
US	53031416	R1Q43UKZYBHV8P	0060582510	541105320	Deliver Us from Evil: Defeating Terrorism, Despotism, and Liberalism	Books	1	18	51	N	N	Dissent  Is Not Disloyalty	Mr. Hannity spends a great deal of effort in this book attempting to demonstrate that the Democratic Party and its allies in the United States are active allies of terrorists.  Among other charges, he excoriates Democrats for attempting to use the tragic events of September 11, 2001 for political advantage.<br />My retort to Mr. Hannity is very simple:  What do you think YOU are doing YOURSELF!?  By writing a book which equates Jimmy Carter with Neville Chamberlain and John Kerry with Osama Bin Laden you make ridiculous the cause you purport to serve and alienate any thoughtful readers and listeners.<br />Mr. Hannity and his fans would like the world to be black and white.  They do not acknowledge abstractions, preferring to stoop to the lowest common denominator. Fortunately, most Americans are sophisticated enough to recognize oversimplifications and hysterical generalizations.<br />Mr. Hannity's role model in his ignominious campaign against freedom of thought and debate is Senator Joseph McCarthy.  Therefore, it is fitting to end my review with these words from Joseph Welch's famous denunciation of McCarthyism:  &quot;You have done enough.  Have you no sense of decency, sir, at long last?  Have you left no sense of decency?&quot;	2004-02-26
US	53031416	R3UEESWACLSGNF	0618331298	322385556	Tolkien and the Great War: The Threshold of Middle-earth	Books	5	28	28	N	N	An Essential Addition to the Tolkien Canon	John Garth has produced a fine work which will be enormously useful for many years to come.  It appeals on two levels: first to Tolkien enthusiasts who are always eager to learn more about our favorite author's life and sources of inspiration, and secondly to anyone interested in World War I and the experiences of the ordinary soldiers who fought and died in it.<br />The book begins in pre war England with J.R.R. Tolkien and his small cluster of friends.  Beginning with their schoolboy days at King Edward's School in Birmingham and continuing through the beginnings of their academic careers at Oxford and Cambridge, Tolkien (John Ronald in those days) had a close friendship with a group of highly intelligent kindred souls who formed the TCBS, or Tea Cake and Barrovian Society.  Partly literary and partly just for fun, the TCBS must have been one of hundreds of similar societies founded in the semi-cloistered world of schoolboys.  Unlike most such groups, the TCBS lived on in the hearts of its participants, four of whom, John Ronald Tolkien, Christopher Wiseman, Geoffrey Bache Smith, and Robert Gilson, were particularly close.  They encouraged each other in their literary and artistic pursuits and by their early twenties were already producing work which boded well for their futures.<br />Then World War I broke out.  Tolkien, Gilson, Wiseman, and Smith were sucked into the British armed forces along with thousands of other men, Wiseman into the navy, the others into the army.  Gilson and Smith were killed in 1916 (Smith's letter to Tolkien about Gilson's death, ending with &quot;My dear John Ronald  whatever are we going to do?&quot; is one of the saddest things I have ever read.) Tolkien and Wiseman survived and never forgot their dead friends. We also see the quiet, loving influence of friends and family, particularly that of Edith Bratt Tolkien, on the two survivors.<br />The heart of this book deals with the influence of the War on Tolkien's writings on Middle earth.  I will never be able to read of the Fall of Gondolin again without thinking of the Somme, and never think of Eressea without remembering Tolkien returning home on a hospital ship to see the green hills of England once more.  So much of Tolkien's heart and inspiration is revealed in this book that it should be shelved alongside his own masterpieces.rth.  I will never be able to read of the Fall of Gondolin again without thinking of the Somme, and never think of Eressea without remembering Tolkien returning home on a hospital ship to see the green hills of England once more.  So much of Tolkien's heart and inspiration is revealed in this book that it should be shelved alongside his own masterpieces.	2004-02-16
US	53031416	R1HOO6S9UTNL5N	1852854391	832099782	The Uncrowned Emperor: The Life and Times of Otto von Habsburg	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	Born to Be Emperor	This is a fine biography of a man who, but for a World War, might have been an Emperor and King.  Otto von Hapsburg, born in 1912,was the son of the last Emperor of Austria-Hungary.  His parents were overthrown in late 1918 and young Otto, whose own memories of his childhood are astonishingly vivid, began a life of exile.<br />Otto had every right to be bitter over the hand fate dealt him, but we see very little of such an emotion in his life.  Instead, we see a man whose dedication to Austria and Hungary (and later to all of Europe) never wavered.  He stood by his homelands and was their most fervent advocate even in the dark days of World War II and the Cold War.  He was ambitious yet honorable, as we see repeatedly when he refused to have anything to do with Hitler, for example.<br />Otto's most important contributions came towards the end of his life, when he became one of the first members of the European Parliament.  For twenty years he was a steadfast advocate of greater European unity, but within a setting in which tradition, custom, and above all established religion were not ignored. He was also a devoted family man, marrying rather late in life and fathering a large brood of children.<br />So although Otto von Hapsburg did not achieve the status he was born to, he nevertheless made a positive contribution to the world, something his ancestors, many of whom held more power but had far less stature, would certainly be proud of.	2004-02-16
US	53031416	R2OVUXCS59BCPI	076530693X	193033614	Gunpowder Empire (Crosstime Traffic)	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	A Fine New Turtledove Series	In Gunpowder Empire Harry Turtledove begins another series of books, this one with enormous potential to please.  He has revived H. Beam Piper's Paratime concept of multiple Earths on different time tracks (which can be visited by those with the right technology).  This provides unlimited numbers of possible alternate worlds for Turtledove to explore.<br />Gunpowder Empire takes a late twenty-first century American family to an alternate world where the Roman Empire never fell.  They do business there in order to provide scarce resources to their own world, and for a time all seems well.  Then the mother gets very ill and she and her husband return to their own world, leaving their two teenage children behind.  Then the technology breaks down, and the children are left on their own, possibly for the rest of their lives.<br />Turtledove has not only revived Piper's idea of Crosstime traffic, he has also hearkened back to Robert Heinlein's juvenile science fiction works of the 1950s and 1960s. At the same time he has provided some thought provoking commentary on war and on gender roles and relationships which give the book more depth.  This is the beginning of a fine new series which I hope will see many additions.	2004-02-16
US	53031416	R1M39ZBP1J49FX	1570719314	555114166	The Opium Wars: The Addiction of One Empire and the Corruption of Another	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A Solid History of a Shameful Period	The Opium Wars is a well written chronicle of the shameful period in the nineteenth century when Great Britain sank to the level of an international drug cartel.  The British Empire forced China's Qing Dynasty to allow huge shipments of opium into its territories in order to reduce Britain's huge trade deficit.  The details of how Britain contributed to the decline of China are astounding but well documented.<br />A particularly interesting aspect of this book are the numerous references to and comparisons with present day issues and situations.  The writing is scholarly but highly readable.  Those who read it will have a better understanding of a less than glorious period of British history and a new appreciation of the anger and distrust China still feels towards the West as a result.	2004-02-08
US	53031416	R3JFLJKZX9CJ87	031242146X	84958990	Anthony Blunt: His Lives	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Utterly Fascinating	Anthony Blunt was a child of the British Establishment, born to a middle class family with Church of England and royal connections.  He received a fine education at Marlborough and Cambridge and became one of the most acclaimed art historians and teachers in Britain in the twentieth century.  At the same time, he was a spy for the Soviets.  The story of how Blunt became a communist, worked against his country while supposedly serving it in MI5 during World War II, then became a courtier for two monarchs and the highly regarded head of the Courtald Institute, which he made into one of the finest art schools in the country, is fascinating.<br />Blunt was a man of many contradictions.  At the same time he stood at the side of the Royal Family as the Surveyor of their art collection he was leading a secret gay life notorious for its seaminess.  While he appeared to be a pillar of the Establishment he gave secret information to the Soviets and became the long sought after Fourth Man who was in league with Burgess, Maclean, and Philby before they defected to Russia. When he was unmasked in the 1960s the British government did its own contradictory little dance around him, granting him immunity while pumping him for information.<br />Miranda Carter is sympathetic to Blunt and emphasizes his positives, like his fine teaching abilities and helpfulness to many of his students, but without whitewashing his treasonous activities.  She helps us understand the pressure Blunt was under for many years and the fear of being unmasked that dominated him until he was finally publically denounced in 1979. Above all, she does a fine job of depicting the man's numerous contradictions.  Highly recommended.	2004-02-08
US	53031416	R2SPI0Y4DC7X95	0060082879	190627498	A Splendor of Letters: The Permanence of Books in an Impermanent World	Books	5	21	22	N	Y	The Last of a Splendid Trilogy	Nicholas Basbanes has enriched the lives of bibliophiles with his A Gentle Madness and Patience and Fortitude, the first two volumes in this trilogy devoted to books and the people who love them.  He has now brought the trilogy to a close with A Splendor of Letters, which is just as fascinating as either of the first two volumes.<br />A Splendor of Letters is a wide ranging look at many aspects of the book world.  History is served through an examination of several attempts to destroy the written word, from Nazi Germany to Pol Pot's Cambodia; and with happier stories of archaeologists' rediscoveries of ancient libraries.  More stories of book collectors of the sort that made A Gentle Madness so interesting are also provided, as is more material on the problems libraries and collections have when they run out of space and must determine what to do with the overflow, which was a major topic in Patience and Fortitude.  The main thrust of A Splendor of Letters, however, is a defense of the book in its traditional form against those who would proclaim its death at the hands of technology.<br />As with all of Mr. Basbanes' works (which also include Among the Gently Mad, A Primer for Book Collectors), the fascinating material is enhanced by the beauty of the writing.  No book lover should pass this by.	2004-01-27
US	53031416	R2AMAT4UYF45CZ	0195141830	600036030	The Lost Christianities: The Battles for Scripture and the Faiths We Never Knew	Books	5	49	58	N	Y	Shines A Light Into A Dark Corner Of Religious History	Lost Christianities is an examination of the tumultuous early years of Christianity, when enormous amounts of passion, and sometimes blood, was spilled over arguments about what exactly being a Christian meant.  Ehrman writes in an accessible but highly scholarly style meant for the general reader.  He explains the differences between Ebionites and Marcionites, as well as a host of other varieties of Christians, and illuminates the process through which the proto-Orthodox view of Christianity became the only acceptable version of that faith. Along the way he tells many fascinating stories and introduces us to some intriguing and in many cases heroic characters like Polycarp, Ignatius, and many others. He also has some interesting counter-factual speculations on what could have happened had Marcionism, for example, become the dominant form of Christianity.<br />Many Christians have always assumed that the religious principles and practices that we have been brought up with were always  a part of our faith, and that all Christians have always believed pretty much the same thing about the nature of Jesus and His relationship with God.  This book helps us recognize that the true story of the early years of our faith is far more complicated than most of us ever knew.	2004-01-19
US	53031416	R3HNG4KRV4F0PY	039305098X	253476492	The Butcher's Tale: Murder and Anti-Semitism in a German Town	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A History Of An Hysteria	The Butcher's Tale is on the surface the story of the murder of an 18 year old boy in an obscure town in a backwards corner of Germany in 1900.  The parts of the book which deal with the discovery of the body and the subsequent investigations read like any report of a murder might, with heavy emphasis on detail and comparisons of witness testimony, etc.<br />The most important parts of the book deal, however, with the reaction of the townspeople to the murder: an upsurge in anti-Semitic hysteria which eventually forced the government to send troops to keep order.  Smith does a good job of analyzing the roots of anti-Jewish prejudice in Germany and Central Europe and provides a fascinating history of the beginnings of the so-called blood libel and desecration of the Host stories, belief in which accounted for much of the anti-Jewish feeling in Central and Eastern Europe from the Middle Ages on. Smith also draws some interesting parallels with the behavior of the German government in 1900, when it actively protected its Jewish citizens, and then in the 1940s, when the Third Reich actively sought to massacre those same citizens.<br />This book is important because it gives us precious insights into the tendency of human beings, even well educated, civilized humans, to lapse into hysteria and believe the most unbelievable stories about people they once trusted and accepted.  Read this book, and remember it the next time you hear rumors about child molesting day care workers, or secret covens of Satanists among us, or other widespread, previously unsuspected, conspiracies.	2004-01-19
US	53031416	R2OX1K15YQTWVC	0385495536	856042771	Sailing the Wine-Dark Sea: Why the Greeks Matter (Hinges of History)	Books	5	18	22	N	Y	Highly Accessible History	Thomas Cahill's Hinges of History series has illuminated several corners of history for the general reader, from medieval Ireland to the development of Judaism and Christianity.  Now Cahill has turned to the ancient Greeks to demonstrate why they are important today.<br />In a series of several chapters written in scholarly yet accessible to the general reader style, Cahill skillfully dissects Greek history, philosophy, drama, and morality.  He shows us the Greek origins of many of our ideas about government, literature, and art, and ends with a chapter that demonstrates the intersections between the Greeks and the Judeo-Christian ideas which came to dominate so much of the world.  Like the other volumes in this series, Sailing the Wine Dark Sea will entertain and inform.	2003-12-18
US	53031416	R3R89FPOVWPHMC	1885586582	529329510	Lost Splendor: The Amazing Memoirs of the Man Who Killed Rasputin	Books	4	57	62	N	Y	A Glimpse Into A Vanished World	Prince Felix Yousssoupoff is best known as one of the murderers of Gregory Rasputin just before the Russian Revolution.  He was a member of one of Russia's most aristocratic families, and in this memoir, originally published in the 1950s, he gives us a glimpse of life for a nobleman in pre-Revolutionary Russia.<br />Life was certainly rich, if not always good, for Prince Felix.  As a younger son, he was given very little education and basically allowed to do as he pleased during his formative years.  Most of the time what he was pleased to do was to get into trouble.  I lost count of the number of servants, governesses, and other retainers who quit with nervous breakdowns after trying to look after Felix. Under the influence of his elder brother, whom he adored, Felix had an early initiation into sexual and other kinds of debauchery. He enjoyed dressing as a woman and living the high life in St. Petersburg, London, and Paris.  Felix was reticent about his sexuality, claiming several affairs with women but speaking more warmly about his men friends, including Grand Duke Dmitri, who helped him murder Rasputin.  When Felix's brother was killed in a duel Felix became the heir to a vast fortune.  He married Tsar Nicholas' niece Irina, whom he claimed to adore but otherwise said little about.<br />The most interesting parts of this book deal with Rasputin, whom Felix met several times.  Typically, Felix hints that there was a sexual nature to these encounters, but divulges few details.  Felix describes the murder and his subsequent exile, which saved him from being in St. Petersburg during the February Revolution in 1917, and his internment in the Crimea with other members of the Imperial Family from 1917 through 1919, when he escaped on a British warship.<br />This book is interesting but highly reticent.  Felix never loses a chance to glamorize himself and his activities, with the result that some undeniably brave actions, like his several trips to St. Petersburg to rescue treasures while the Bolshevik terror was at its height, tend to get less attention than they deserve.  A more open and informative biography of Prince Felix, The Man Who Killed Rasputin, by Greg King, was published several years ago and will help fill in the gaps left by Felix's own work.cue treasures while the Bolshevik terror was at its height, tend to get less attention than they deserve.  A more open and informative biography of Prince Felix, The Man Who Killed Rasputin, by Greg King, was published several years ago and will help fill in the gaps left by Felix's own work.	2003-12-18
US	53031416	RM6ZZXKGLSPA2	0399150919	533097786	What Ifs? of American History: Eminent Historians Imagine What Might Have Been	Books	4	3	9	N	Y	Clever Counterfactuals	Here we have a third collection of fascinating counterfactuals (alternate histories).  This collection focuses on the United States, and the only thing that keeps me from giving it five stars is that two of the submissions were published several years ago in What If # 1.  Surely there is more than enough material available to make up a full volume on the US without resorting to repetition!<br />Even with the duplicate essays, this is an absorbing volume.  My favorite selection has to be the next to last one, a look back at the two day nuclear war of October 1962 from a ten year perspective.  It is completely believable and disturbing in light of recent US disregard of international opinion. (One hopes certain members of the Bush Administration will receive this book as a holiday gift this year!) I trust there will be yet further What Ifs to come.	2003-12-07
US	53031416	R2STYN9MIPX2AT	0451529022	553324409	In the Presence of Mine Enemies (Turtledove, Harry)	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Turtledove's Best Since Guns Of The South	Harry Turtledove has produced an alternate history novel which is his best since Guns of the South.  Turtledove always does an impressive job with historical detail, but tends to focus on far too many characters with the result that his books like The Great War series tend to be historically fascinating but confusing to keep up with in the matter of who is doing what to whom.  Fortunately he has limited his characters here and has taken the time to fully portray them as real people, not cardboard cutouts.<br />In In The Presence of Mine Enemies, like The Guns of the South, Turtledove takes a fantastic premise, that the Third Reich won World Wars Two and Three and has lasted until about the year 2010, and makes it all too believable.  We travel through the Nazified splendors of Berlin and hear as a matter of course of details like Omaha as the US capital (Washington was nuclear bombed in World War III circa 1970). Then we learn something even more fantastic, that all of Turtledove's major characters are Jews, living hidden, secret lives in the heart of Fascism.  The shock is just as great as when the twenty-first century time travelers show up with Kalashnikovs at General Lee's encampment in Guns of the South.<br />In writing this book Turtledove obviously drew on material from the last years of the Soviet Union, and it is easy to recognize which Nazi leader is patterned on which Soviet counterpart.  The true main story, that of the hidden Jews and their constant fear of discovery, is totally original and completely absorbing.<br />The book ends with a failed coup against a reforming Fuhrer, and those of us familiar with Russian history in the last ten years or so can guess what's coming next: turmoil, corruption, independence movements, fledgling attempts at democracies failing more often than succeeding, etc. What is less clear is how Turtledove's characters are going to survive all this, and whether they will ever be free to live openly as Jews once more.  The book ends at a point which leaves the question of sequels open.  I hope the answer will be yes.book ends at a point which leaves the question of sequels open.  I hope the answer will be yes.	2003-12-07
US	53031416	R1FJV0ERAUCSCE	0060565322	1427867	Diana Mosley: Mitford Beauty, British Fascist, Hitler's Angel	Books	5	31	35	N	N	The Most Enigmatic Mitford	Anne de Courcy's biography of Diana Mitford, Lady Mosley, is an indispensable addition to the Mitford collector's bookshelf and an excellent read for anyone else interested in British and European history during the twentieth century.<br />Diana was probably the most enigmatic of the six Mitford sisters, daughters of Lord and Lady Redesdale and thus members of the highest British social world.  In my opinion she was less talented than her older sister Nancy (talented novelist, biographer, and wit) and her next to youngest sister Jessica (one time Communist, muckraker, and wit).  She was ambitious to marry well like her baby sister Deborah (Duchess of Devonshire) and managed to wed two prominent men, one a wealthy future Lord, the other a baronet with what looked like a prominent political future.  Unfortunately the sister she most resembles was Unity, a Nazi enthusiast and Hitler hanger on. (The other sister, Pam, was a lover of the countryside and rural life, neither of which had much appeal to Diana.)<br />Diana was an intelligent woman who was largely self educated.  She made her first marriage at 18 to Bryan Guiness, who loved her for the rest of his life.  Unfortunately, husbandly devotion and two sons were not enough for Diana, who fell in love with Sir Oswald Mosley in her early twenties.  Mosley was a rising political star, having moved from the Conservatives to Labour to his own New Party to forming the British Union of Fascists in the early 1930s.  De Courcy does a good job of describing Mosley's political appeal as a strong man who could be trusted to put things right (like Mussolini).  In the Depression years he must have seemed an appealing alternative to politics as usual in Britain.  Diana lived with Mosley and after the death of his first wife married him in Berlin, with Hitler as a wedding guest.<br />Here is the most enigmatic part of Diana's story.  How could an intelligent, pleasant, vivacious woman fall so heavily for the Nazis?  De Courcy tries to answer this in terms of Diana's attraction to strong men, but this doesn't seem to be the full story.  Whatever the attraction, it was life long and survived every revelation of Hitler's true character after World War II.  Diana and her husband Mosley were so committed to Hitler and Fascism that they suffered imprisonment during much of World War II as possible subversives, and were ostracized by much of polite society and the British political world for the rest of their lives.<br />None of this seemed to matter to Diana.  She remained at Mosley's side through what must have been several of his extra-marital affairs (the word that seems to best sum up Oswald Mosley is \\"cad\\") and dominated a large family of children and step children and other descendants.  She carried grudges with a vengeance, not speaking to her sister Jessica for years (Jessica had no use for her, either) and lambasting her step son for not sufficiently praising his father's memory in a biography.  At the same time she was evidently charming, witty, and a delight to be around right up to her death in August 2003. She remains enigmatic but highly entertaining.to answer this in terms of Diana's attraction to strong men, but this doesn't seem to be the full story.  Whatever the attraction, it was life long and survived every revelation of Hitler's true character after World War II.  Diana and her husband Mosley were so committed to Hitler and Fascism that they suffered imprisonment during much of World War II as possible subversives, and were ostracized by much of polite society and the British political world for the rest of their lives.<br />None of this seemed to matter to Diana.  She remained at Mosley's side through what must have been several of his extra-marital affairs (the word that seems to best sum up Oswald Mosley is \\"cad\\") and dominated a large family of children and step children and other descendants.  She carried grudges with a vengeance, not speaking to her sister Jessica for years (Jessica had no use for her, either) and lambasting her step son for not sufficiently praising his father's memory in a biography.  At the same time she was evidently charming, witty, and a delight to be around right up to her death in August 2003. She remains enigmatic but highly entertaining.	2003-11-28
US	53031416	R3H09DBSUBEYTS	0198607024	94235009	The Meaning of Everything: The Story of the Oxford English Dictionary	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Real Delight	Anything by Simon Winchester is bound to be a delight due to his mastery of the English language and his ability to tell a fascinating tale.  In The Meaning of Everything he returns to much of the same subject matter as he covered in his best known work, The Professor and the Madman.<br />The Oxford English Dictionary is a peerless reference work.  Winchester tells the story of how it was conceived and brought to fruition by the work of numerous talented men and women from the mid eighteen hundreds up until the 1920s.  He describes the painstaking work that developing each etymology and definition involved and the many personalities involved, most especially the greatest of the Dictionary's editors, Sir James Murray.  There are also many vignettes of some of the others who spent time and energy creating the Dictionary, including J.R.R. Tolkien, who created many of the W definitions.<br />This is a delightful book that will entertain you even if you rarely have occasion to consult the OED.	2003-11-28
US	53031416	RWDM0NIV44KZL	0679421475	426549876	And the Dead Shall Rise: The Murder of Mary Phagan and the Lynching of Leo Frank	Books	5	16	18	N	N	As Definitive As It Can Get	Steve Oney admits that much about the murder of little Mary Phagan and the lynching of Leo Frank will never be known, but he has nevertheless done an outstanding job of tracking down as much information as possible in order  to tell the story.  And the Dead Shall Rise is a superb work of scholarship and journalism.  It begins with little Mary's ill fated trip to her workplace in April, 1913 to pick up her pay from Leo Frank,then continues through the discovery of her body in the factory basement,and the subsequent investigation, arrest, and trial of Frank.  This was surely one of the first trials of the century for the twentieth century, and Oney takes us through it step by step and witness by witness.<br />After the trial ends with Frank's conviction, Oney chronicles the media frenzy, both pro- and anti-Frank, that swept Georgia and the nation.  He details the long appeals process and, when that ended with Frank's conviction confirmed, examines the process by which Georgia's Governor Slaton commuted the death sentence.  It is here that the story becomes even more chilling, as Oney details Frank's life in the Milledgeville prison on the one hand and describes the plans being laid to lynch him on the other.<br />I don't believe a full listing of the men involved in Leo Frank's lynching in August, 1915 has ever been published before now.  Oney names names, extremely prominent ones in many cases, and fully describes Frank's kidnapping and lynching and the gruesome aftermath when thousands flocked to see his body.  The book ends with summings up of the subsequent careers of most of the most prominent characters in the affair.<br />Reading this book was a real shock to me.  As a native Georgian I had heard of the Frank case for years.  This book was the first time I fully appreciated the frenzy that swept over the state and the stain it left on us for years. I was shocked by the depths of the anti-Semitism and hatred of non-Southerners revealed amongst Georgians at the time.  This book needs to be read by everyone, regardless of your background or heritage, in order to remind us of the anger and hatred that can arise within us.ime.  This book needs to be read by everyone, regardless of your background or heritage, in order to remind us of the anger and hatred that can arise within us.	2003-11-23
US	53031416	R2LIFU90TVXMTL	0300101716	143729112	Inventing A Nation: Washington, Adams, Jefferson	Books	5	24	35	N	N	A Much Needed Reminder of the Past	Just when we need him most, here comes Gore Vidal with a slim but deep look at our nation's beginning.  Vidal's elegant, waspish wit makes this book (along with everything else he writes) a delight, but the true value of this work lies in its content.<br />Vidal makes it clear in his afterword that the book was inspired by a brief conversation he had with John F. Kennedy in November 1961.  Kennedy wondered why we had no great men of the caliber of the Founding Fathers in his own time (how depressed he would have been had he lived forty more years and witnessed our present crop of &quot;leaders&quot;!!)  Vidal doesn't really give us a clear answer to Kennedy's question, but he does manage, in less than 200 pages, to remind us of both the Founders' human frailties and their greatness.  With Vidal Washington, Adams, Jefferson, Franklin, and many others don't come out as icons, but neither are they the villains some would make them.  One finishes this book in an hour or so aware that the men who created our nation were human after all, but intelligent and dedicated men who compare rather well with their successors in 2003.	2003-11-16
US	53031416	RQPLH2RG4CJ0Z	158567348X	460811626	Greek Fire, Poison Arrows & Scorpion Bombs: Biological and Chemical Warfare in the Ancient World	Books	5	8	11	N	Y	Utterly Fascinating	Adrienne Mayor has breathed new life into ancient history by examining the evidence for biological and chemical warfare over two thousand years ago.  There's a lot of material there, much of it gleaned from evidence found in classical mythology and Homer's epics.  Mayor's dedication to arcane research makes her conclusions about the use of infectious disease, poisonous reptiles and insects, and primitive but effective chemical weaponry comprehensible and convincing.  Obviously, warfare in the ancient world was even dirtier, smellier, and nastier than it is today. Mayor also draws some interesting parallels between chemical warfare in ancient times and more recently, with some amazing new material.  (The British actually used gas in Iraq before Saddam did!!)<br />My only regret about this book is that it is limited pretty strictly to the classical or ancient world, finishing up with a brief look at the Mongols' use of plague stricken bodies as projectiles against a city they were besieging in the 1300s.  There is obviously plenty of material for a sequel, which I hope Mayor will eventually provide.	2003-11-16
US	53031416	R152HEY7NXOA81	0679456716	677265694	Castles of Steel: Britain, Germany, and the Winning of the Great War at Sea	Books	5	97	104	N	Y	Thoroughly Magnificent	Robert K. Massie has produced another masterpiece of narrative history, comprehensive without being dry and fascinating in every detail.  In Castles of Steel he takes up the story he started with his 1991 bestseller Dreadnought:  the struggle between Britain and Germany for sea mastery during the Great War.<br />The book begins with the final days of peace in July 1914, when Europe realized that the assassination of Archduke Francis Ferdinand was about to trigger a major war.  Massie describes the calculations of the British and German leadership as they moved toward conflict.  One of Massie's greatest skills as a writer is his ability to create short but thorough biographical sketches, seen here most vividly in his treatments of Jellicoe and Beatty, the men who were to lead the British Grand Fleet. Massie also has an eye for odd humorous moments, as in his amusing description of the trick a German ship played on an unsuspecting French colony soon after war was declared.<br />After the war actually begins Massie focusses on the manuevers of the British and German fleets as they prepare for action.  Another narrative track traces the steps of the politicians like Winston Churchill and Prince Louis of Battenberg who are setting war policy.  Massie's main focus is on the British, and he thoroughly analyzes successes like the Battle of Dogger Bank and disasters like the Gallipoli landings.  The climax of the book is the Battle of Jutland in 1916, which was the only major clash between the two navies.  Massie also documents the submarine war and details how it eventually brought the United States into the conflict.  The last few pages of the book describes the scuttling of the surrendered German fleet at Scapa Flow, symbolic of the enormous waste caused by the whole conflict.<br />Castles of Steel is a fitting companion to Dreadnought and will certainly be considered one of the most comprehensive, yet accessible, histories of the Great War.	2003-11-13
US	53031416	RVIQSRU52L5YT	0974537616	164161415	A National Party No More: The Conscience of a Conservative Democrat	Books	1	44	157	N	N	Zig Zag Zell Strikes Again	Here we have Zig Zag Zell (as we Georgians refer to him) in his latest permutation.  Throughout his over long political career Zell Miller has fluctuated throughout the spectrum with only one constant:  what he perceives to be his own best interest in pursuit of his driving ambition.<br />A brief summary of Mr. Miller's career is in order.  He entered Georgia politics in the 1960s as a lackey for the clownish segregationist Governor Lester Maddox.  Elected Lieutenant Governor in 1974, he developed a reputation as a maverick progressive/liberal during the Carter Administration.  In 1980 he ran a liberal/populist primary challenge to Senator Herman Talmadge (who won the primary but lost the general election).  Licking his wounds, Miller kept a low profile in the 1980s as Lieutenant Governor to two Governors.  In 1990 he ran as a moderate Democrat and was elected Governor with support from organized labor.  Once in office, Miller then proceeded to swing to the right for most of 1991, antagonizing many supporters and causing them to wonder if they had elected a Republican after all.  Then in 1992, sensing a shift in the political winds, he came out strongly for Bill Clinton, moving the Georgia primary up so that it gave Clinton a needed boost in his quest for the nomination.  That summer he gave the keynote address at the Democratic convention and was one of the Democrats' strongest Southern supporters.  I was present at a campaign rally in Atlanta for Hillary Rodham Clinton and Al and Tipper Gore in the fall of 1992.  Zell gave a stemwinding classical Democratic speech praising the Clinton-Gore campaign to the skies.  He was instrumental in delivering Georgia to the Clinton column in November.  Miller continued his progressive politics in 1993 when he made a principled stand for changing the Georgia flag's Confederate symbolism.  Although he abandoned this plan in the face of opposition, the flag issue and his association with the Clintons nearly cost Miller his reelection in 1994.  In his second term Miller moved steadily rightward and sought no bold initiatives(although he did seek to mend fences with the teachers' union by sponsoring a series of raises, for which I, as an educator, must give him some gratitude), finishing up in 1998 with a pledge to retire from politics forever.  Then in 1999 with the death of Paul Coverdell Miller was appointed to the US Senate, winning election to the rest of Coverdell's term that fall.  True to form, he wavered between the Democrats and the Republicans for his first few months before deciding that the GOP had a better shot at power in 2000. Since then he has been a shill for Bush and his cronies and a Democrat only in name.  If all the votes had been permitted to be counted in Florida, and Al Gore were now in the White House, Zell would have written a book about the great tradition of Southern liberalism and the perfidiousness of Republicans.<br />The sad thing about Zell Miller in his current mutation is that he knows better.  He knows what the Democratic Party has done for the South over the years.  He is not a natural ally of Bush and his crony capitalists, but a man whose family, state, and region have been helped immeasurably by Democratic initiatives throughout his lifetime.  To stab his party in the back, as Miller has done repeatedly, is the rankest ingratitude and, in anyone else, would reveal an appalling ignorance of history.  Miller cannot hide behind ignorance, he is too smart and too well educated for that.  Instead, he must stand accused of rank ambition and self-glorification.  His book reveals no true understanding of the South or of history.  It is a hatchet job that could have been created by any Karl Rove acolyte and as such, it stands as the last miserable statement of the inglorious career of a man who wasted his considerable talents.tion in 1994.  In his second term Miller moved steadily rightward and sought no bold initiatives(although he did seek to mend fences with the teachers' union by sponsoring a series of raises, for which I, as an educator, must give him some gratitude), finishing up in 1998 with a pledge to retire from politics forever.  Then in 1999 with the death of Paul Coverdell Miller was appointed to the US Senate, winning election to the rest of Coverdell's term that fall.  True to form, he wavered between the Democrats and the Republicans for his first few months before deciding that the GOP had a better shot at power in 2000. Since then he has been a shill for Bush and his cronies and a Democrat only in name.  If all the votes had been permitted to be counted in Florida, and Al Gore were now in the White House, Zell would have written a book about the great tradition of Southern liberalism and the perfidiousness of Republicans.<br />The sad thing about Zell Miller in his current mutation is that he knows better.  He knows what the Democratic Party has done for the South over the years.  He is not a natural ally of Bush and his crony capitalists, but a man whose family, state, and region have been helped immeasurably by Democratic initiatives throughout his lifetime.  To stab his party in the back, as Miller has done repeatedly, is the rankest ingratitude and, in anyone else, would reveal an appalling ignorance of history.  Miller cannot hide behind ignorance, he is too smart and too well educated for that.  Instead, he must stand accused of rank ambition and self-glorification.  His book reveals no true understanding of the South or of history.  It is a hatchet job that could have been created by any Karl Rove acolyte and as such, it stands as the last miserable statement of the inglorious career of a man who wasted his considerable talents.	2003-11-04
US	53031416	RCGU7ZIUB9LGL	0393058506	904288157	The Great Unraveling: Losing Our Way in the New Century	Books	5	22	26	N	N	This Explains So Much!!!	Paul Krugman is an economics professor who actually manages to make his subject interesting.  In this collection of columns from The New York Times, revised and expanded for this book, Krugman analyzes what went wrong over the last few years.  In the late 1990s the US looked forward to the twentyfirst century with the prospect of rising budget surpluses and prosperity.  Now we face an uncertain future, dominated by the necessity to deal with increasingly huge budget deficits and the concomitant economic woes that they will bring with them.  How did this happen?<br />Krugman pulls no punches.  He places the blame for the present state of affairs squarely on the shoulders of the Bush Administration and its allies in Congress and elsewhere.  Krugman correctly identifies these people not as conservatives but as radicals, out to force their extremist, reactionary ideology on the nation.<br />With the media increasingly either pro-Bush or too frightened of him to speak out, and with the Democrats in similar disarray, Paul Krugman's book could not have come out at a better time. We can hope that the book will find a wide audience throughout the country as the 2004 election draws near, and that it spurs dissent and revulsion against the Bush team next November.	2003-10-26
US	53031416	R1S3RCAVL33DYW	0895261294	206337612	Legacy: Paying the Price for the Clinton Years	Books	1	15	57	N	N	Another One for the Clinton Haters	Mr. Lowry has produced yet another entry in the long, dreary list of publications designed to appeal to people who believe Bill and Hillary Clinton are devil's spawn or worse.  His work does stand out a bit since he seems to have a firmer sense of literary style, but this is scarcely to his credit since it proves he ought to be producing worthier publications, such as a defense of the George W. Bush record.  But then again, such a defense is probably beyond anyone's powers.<br />Mr. Lowry claims that President Clinton was primarily concerned with his legacy.  Now isn't that shocking:  a President of the United States was worried about history and the effects of his policies on the future!  Mr. Lowry also claims that President Clinton was willing to take risks only on sexual matters.  Perhaps Mr. Lowry can explain the sexual nature of the 1993 budget, the health care plan, the Mexico bailout of 1995, or the NAFTA agreement, to name a few Clinton initiatives which were quite risky but not overtly titillating (at least not to me.)<br />One of the chief charges Republicans make against Democrats these days is that of elitism.  It is therefore surprising that Mr. Lowry spends quite a bit of time sneering at President Clinton's poor white Southern ancestry and upbringing.  He also ventures into amateur psychology to state that a deprived childhood can lead to licentiousness later.  Maybe so, but Mr. Lowry really ought to keep in mind that white Southerners from similar backgrounds make up a key element in George W. Bush's support these days, and they might not appreciate his contemptuous tone.<br />Mr. Lowry provides several chapters designed to prove that everything positive that happened between January 20, 1993 and January 20, 2001 was mere coincidence, while every negative event between those dates  was directly caused by Clintonian malfeasance.  None of this is new material, but the elaborate circumlocutions of logic make for amusing though quaint reading.  There is also a retread of the tired old Lewinsky affair, just in case his readers have become satiated with the fifteen or twenty other publications on the same subject.  Mr. Lowry's inventive attempts to pin responsibility on President Clinton for the Sept 11 attacks are somewhat diverting.  (Clinton's gall is incredible, out of office nine months and still running things!)<br />In the short run publications like this one are designed to divert attention (and blame) away from the Bush Administration.  In the long run they are designed to permanently blacken Clinton's name in the history books.  Neither will succeed.  Americans are perfectly capable of seeing the truth now and years from now, and no blatantly partisan smear tactics will mislead them for long.  There is an old saying:  \\"You are known by your enemies.\\"  President Clinton is probably quite proud to have as enemies the authors of this sort of publication.also a retread of the tired old Lewinsky affair, just in case his readers have become satiated with the fifteen or twenty other publications on the same subject.  Mr. Lowry's inventive attempts to pin responsibility on President Clinton for the Sept 11 attacks are somewhat diverting.  (Clinton's gall is incredible, out of office nine months and still running things!)<br />In the short run publications like this one are designed to divert attention (and blame) away from the Bush Administration.  In the long run they are designed to permanently blacken Clinton's name in the history books.  Neither will succeed.  Americans are perfectly capable of seeing the truth now and years from now, and no blatantly partisan smear tactics will mislead them for long.  There is an old saying:  \\"You are known by your enemies.\\"   President Clinton is probably quite proud to have as enemies the authors of this sort of publication.	2003-10-23
US	53031416	RLL818EE6R56U	1400050669	951260070	The Lies of George W. Bush: Mastering the Politics of Deception	Books	5	74	93	N	N	An Overdue Indictment	At last someone has penetrated the thick fog of hagiography surrounding the present occupant of the Oval Office.  Here we have a really penetrating analysis of George W. Bush's lies, evasions, lies, misstatements, lies, prevarications, and lies both before and after he was appointed to office.  Each lie is presented, then elegantly and clearly dissected.  Along the way we learn some fascinating (albeit sometimes nauseating) facts about W's checkered past that reveal him to be quite different from the paragon of virtue presented to us by Republican propagandists.  There is also a well documented critique and castigation of the role the press played in the 2000 election, when Mr. Bush essentially got off scot free.<br />In this well researched and organized book I  take exception to only one assertion by Mr. Corn:  that Bush grew and matured in the period after Sept. 11.  How I wish that were so, but unfortunately I feel that subsequent events prove that Bush didn't really change; we Americans, in our fear and panic, just hoped and convinced ourselves that he had. Now that the scales have started to fall from our eyes, it is to be hoped that no amount of Florida skullduggery or collusion on the Supreme Court can keep W. in office beyond January 20, 2005.	2003-10-19
US	53031416	R2WNBKJTHG79B3	0895261111	247571994	Persecution: How Liberals Are Waging War Against Christians	Books	1	43	148	N	N	It's Not Really About Religious Freedom At All	Mr. Limbaugh has gathered a number of different cases dealing with the freedom to practice religion from around the country, then cobbled them together to produce a book which supposedly chronicles an organized attack on religion by liberalism.  I say supposedly because this book turns out not to be about religious freedom at all, but rather a political tome aimed at advancing the cause of the Radical Right.<br />Undoubtedly there have been cases where overzealous officials have misinterpreted court decisions to the point where they have banned the most innocent displays of religious belief.  A worthwhile study of this regrettable phenomenon (such as Stephen Carter's The Culture of Disbelief) would discuss these cases, point out the errors, and provide guidance for setting things right.  Mr. Limbaugh, however, is not writing to illuminate but to deceive.  The purpose of his exagerrated accounts (does anyone truly call the Bible a hate book) is to so alarm the truly religious among us that they provide political support to Mr. Limbaugh and his cohorts.<br />There would be nothing wrong with Mr. Limbaugh's writing a book  expressing his disagreement with the progressive agenda and providing conservative alternatives. There is something very wrong with this book, however, because he does not debate the issues but instead seeks to tar liberalism with the stain of anti-religious zealotry.  This type of political warfare has become all too common in our society and will probably intensify as the 2004 election draws nearer.  It is a disgrace to the nation, and those who practice such cynical, glib manipulation should be treated with contempt and hounded from office.	2003-10-05
US	53031416	R1LRB7UOHH0ZHV	0345458559	306008616	Tales Before Tolkien: The Roots of Modern Fantasy	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Nice Collection of Early Fantasies	Tales Before Tolkien is a nice collection of fantasy tales dating from the period just before Tolkien's birth to just before he began publishing his own works.  Some of the stories, like Puss-cat Mew, Tolkien actually acknowledged having read and enjoyed as a youth.  Others are not actually mentioned by Tolkien but possibly had an influence on him, while still others were probably not read by him but are indicative of the state of fantasy at the time he was active.  None of these stories really measure up to Tolkien's standards (but then, what does?) but many are quite interesting and enjoyable to read.  Each story has a brief sidebar giving some details about the author, and there is more information in a suggested reading section at the back.  This is a very nice look at the state of fantasy writing just before Tolkien broke new ground.	2003-10-05
US	53031416	R1FL8B9DINAJC0	0471207683	340813892	The Fate of the Romanovs	Books	5	79	93	N	N	A Comprehensive Summation and Refutation	The Fate of the Romanovs is a highly detailed, heavily footnoted book which thoroughly investigates the final months of the last Russian Imperial Family. This is a subject which has been covered many times, but never so thoroughly as have Greg King and Penny Wilson, who document almost every step Nicholas, Alexandra, their children and faithful servants took from Tsarskoe Seloe to Ekaterinburg. In the process, many romantic and political cobwebs have been swept away from the story of the last Tsar, his family and associates, and their fates.<br />There is no doubt that Nicholas II was a good and loving husband and father, but King and Wilson also depict his frustrating fatalism and passivity (and anti-Semitism which was extraordinary even by the standards of his time).  Similarly, Alexandra was a devoted mother but possessive to the point of neurosis with her husband and children.  The five children were normal adolescents, not angels.  Most interestingly, the loyal servants who died with the family are here given biographies and personalities for the first time, as are the Ekaterinburg guards, who were not brutes but young men and boys who developed warm (sometimes romantic) feelings for their captives and wept over their bodies. (Some even committed suicide in remorse.) King and Wilson describe how the legend of the saintly family and their brutal imprisonment developed out of political and religious considerations well after the events took place, and document the real story for the first time. They do a particularly good job of exposing the anti-Semitic intentions of many of the first investigations of the murders, which were apparently undertaken not so much as to solve the mystery as to blame the whole thing on the Communists and Jews.<br />The period leading up to the massacre is carefully reconstructed.  King and Wilson absolve Lenin of directly ordering the murders and maintain the decision was made by a panicky Ural Soviet as an army which would have rescued the Tsar closed in on Ekaterinburg.  The massacre itself is described in every gory detail, as is the long drawn out and bumbling process through which the bodies were removed and buried.<br />Here King and Wilson would like to find a way to revive the Anastasia controversy, but even though Anastasia and Alexis are undeniably missing from their family's grave, they can find no evidence that anyone was able to escape.  The mystery of the two missing bodies will have to remain a mystery until someone finally finds their burial site in that forest outside Ekaterinburg.<br />In the final chapters King and Wilson provide some updated information about the rediscovery of the bodies in the 1970s and early 1990s, with some indications that the Soviet and later Russian governments were heavily involved in making sure the investigations came out without too many embarrassing details being revealed.  More recent material on the DNA analysis of the bones is also included, but there's nothing that alters the certain identification of the imperial family and their servants.<br />The investigation and the DNA research lead into the controversies over the funeral held in St. Petersburg in 1998 and the differing positions of several branches of the Russian Orthodox Church on whether the family should have been beatified or given lesser honors.  King and Wilson also touch upon the split within the present day Romanov family itself, but are clearly supportive of the Vladimirovichi side and dismissive of the rights of the other Romanov branches. (For more information on the Romanov split, read Robert Massie's The Romanovs: The Final Chapter.)<br />The Fate of the Romanovs is the clearest and most detailed summary of everything that is known about the deaths of the Romanovs now available. For that reason, and also because it clears away a lot of myths and legends that have grown up in the 85 years since Ekaterinburg, it belongs in the collection of every Russian and Romanov history student.tudent.	2003-09-28
US	53031416	R24VO6NTQA2S14	0895260743	350381184	Losing Bin Laden: How Bill Clinton's Failures Unleashed Global Terror	Books	1	53	112	N	N	Selective Outrage	This book purports to be a history of how the United States government allowed Osama Bin Laden to sneak up on us with the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001.  If indeed that is what it was, the book would be a useful addition to the history of our era.  Unfortunately, it is nothing more than another dreary addition to the already lengthy list of books (and in speaking of publications of this nature one uses the term loosely) about President Clinton's perfidies and how they supposedly endangered the nation.<br />This book supposedly chronicles the many lost opportunities the US had to capture Bin Laden during the Clinton Administration.  Some of these are already well known and documented. President Clinton himself has expressed his frustration over several near misses.  However, most of the rest of what this book categorizes as failures are nothing more than the kind of hyperbolic innuendos and sometimes outright lies that one has come to expect from the anti-Clinton book industry.<br />The fabricated and exagerrated claims made by this book are less interesting than what it leaves out.  Nowhere is there a mention of the repeated attempts by the Clinton Administration to gain increased funding for anti-terrorism which were blocked by the Republican Congress. Most tellingly, there is not a word about the involvement of the Reagan and first Bush Administrations in Osama Bin Laden's rise to power and subsequent anti-American activities.<br />One should not be surprised by these omissions.  This book is not meant to be a history.  It is a political tract designed to obscure the failures of the present Administration by blaming its predecessor. W.'s blind partisans will appreciate the effort.  The rest of us will roll our eyes and move on.	2003-09-14
US	53031416	R8DGYWBGRWS96	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	5	18	21	N	N	It Would Be Even Funnier If It Weren't So Serious	Al Franken is one of the funniest political commentators of our time, and he is also one of the most astute.  Here he does a great job of what should have been done for years: skewering the pretensions and hypocrisies of the Radical Right machine which has seized control of the Republican Party and threatens to stage another coup d'etat in the guise of an election in 2004. Franken pulls no punches.  His targets, whether the repellent Limbaugh or harpy Coulter or even the disgraceful W. himself, are skillfully dissected and revealed for the hypocrites and miserable worms that they are. And Franken does this with the most effective weapon there is, laughter. Not to be missed!!	2003-09-11
US	53031416	R2KA114KVPVV67	0750930519	132424976	The Georgian Princesses	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Interesting Chronicles of Little Known Royal Women	The Georgian Princesses describes the lives of many of the women of Britain's House of Hanover in the 18th and early 19th centuries.  In their lifetimes these women were regarded as mere pawns on the European chessboard of alliances and power politics.  They were married off to men they scarcely knew and who in many cases were extremely unpleasant companions and expected to make the best of it.  Most of the time all we now know of these women are their names on various genealogical charts.  John Van Der Kiste has resurrected these royal ladies and given them new life.<br />Most of these women turn out to have had fairly sunny and mild dispositions.  They were rarely given much education and had few inner resources to fall back on when their lives and marriages soured, as they so often did. Nevertheless they seem to have borne their lot with dignity most of the time, and sometimes they were able to find consolation in religion or in extramarital affairs.  I felt the sorriest for Caroline Matilda, sister of George III and known as Denmark's &quot;Queen of Tears&quot; for the suffering she underwent at the hands of a schizophrenic husband.  I liked George II's consort Caroline of Anspach and Electress Sophia of Hanover (the progenitress of the family) the best for their sharp intelligence and senses of humor.<br />Because so many of these women have similar names it can be confusing separating the Sophia Dorotheas and the Sophia Charlottes from the Carolines and Louises, but the genealogical charts at the front help a lot. Also, I felt some of the women got short shrift and were barely mentioned at all.  Nevertheless, Van Der Kiste has turned out a very satisfying volume.	2003-09-11
US	53031416	R3JD3G94HMGL70	0312315600	636970772	Big Lies: The Right-Wing Propaganda Machine and How It Distorts the Truth	Books	5	59	74	N	N	Essential Reading For Concerned Americans	Joe Conason has effectively skewered and revealed the extreme right wing as the hypocritical, paranoid, power hungry machine that it is.  Just in time for the next Presidential election, each chapter of this book begins with a quote from  conventional wisdom as disseminated by the Radical Right, then dissects the claims and shows them to be utterly false.  Conason also demonstrates that this propaganda machine operates from the highest (?) levels of the Republican Party, including the White House.  This is a scandal which ought to beggar Watergate in comparison.  Thank you, Mr. Conason, for taking the first steps in exposing the rot within a formerly honorable political party.	2003-09-11
US	53031416	R21KINY0SHRI2P	0060554193	628718036	Tolkien Calendar 2004	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Middle Earth At Its Fairest!!	Ted Nasmith's 2004 Tolkien calendar depicts scenes from The Return of the King, thus making it a fine companion to his 2002 and 2003 works.  The calendar bears all the hallmarks of a Ted Nasmith production:  magnificent depictions of craggy mountains, tumbling foaming streams, and misty forests; nightscapes bathed in silvery moonlight; and battle scenes with plenty of smoke and flame.  I find this calendar especially appealing  because Nasmith has chosen to to portray some less familiar scenes, such as the passage of the Oathbreakers out of the Paths of the Dead (very ghostly) and the wretched, defeated Saruman and Wormtongue after the end of the War of the Ring.  The illustrations are in roughly chronological order, and each page also has a smaller picture of an earlier or alternate version of the main painting, which allows us some insights into Nasmith's creative processes.  This is a calendar which will delight all year long.	2003-08-24
US	53031416	R2EBBIUYG4K970	034544423X	851987429	American Empire: The Victorious Opposition	Books	5	5	8	N	N	The Opening Shot	Harry Turtledove has been producing an alternative history of the twentieth century for a number of years now, and he is just reaching a major turning point, the outbreak of World War II.  In Turtledove's world, the Confederacy won the Civil War and things have been going downhill ever since. Now the Confederacy is in the grips of the fascist dictatorship of Jake Featherston and allied with similar right wing regimes in France, Britain, and Tsarist Russia.  The United States swings  between laissez faire and social democracy, depending on which political party is in power.  It has dominated North America since winning the Great War in 1917, but now its control over occupied Canada and the vanquished Confederates is under strain. With its main ally Imperial Germany dealing with the death of its long time leader Kaiser William II, this is not the best of times for the US.<br />This book brings this interwar trilogy to a close, and apparently is the starting point for yet another series dealing with World War II and the post-war world.  These books are fascinating because they provide a mirror image view of our own world, with familiar characters like Ronald Reagan showing up in new but recognizable roles. They also help us to recognize that no matter how badly things seem to be going for us in our world, it could be much, much worse!!!	2003-08-03
US	53031416	R2UK7DHY9KYGAZ	0761531157	251680060	Hillary's Scheme: Inside the Next Clinton's Ruthless Agenda to Take the White House	Books	1	29	133	N	N	The Right Wing Conspiracy At Work	With Hillary's Scheme the anti-Clinton book industry takes a new turn by seeking to alarm its readers with the spectre of a second Clinton Administration.  Because the target audience for this book and others similar to it regard Bill and Hillary Clinton as devil's spawn or worse, the author does not bother to document his accusations and assertions.  He knows his readers will rush to believe anything about the 42nd President and his First Lady so long as it is negative.  Literary style is not required, merely a plethora of exclamation points, bold faced statements, and simplistic language.  Follow these simple guidelines, and an aspiring anti-Clinton author can strike it rich.<br />Although this book purports to detail Senator Clinton's presidential hopes, a substantial portion recapitulates, in voyeuristic detail, the sexual peccadillos of her husband.  None of this is new, but those who salivated over every word of the Starr Report will undoubtedly be titillated once more.  Another major segment documents the Senator's supposed twenty year long lust for the Presidency.  Since I doubt the author has ever spoken more than a few words at most to the Senator, the source of his knowledge is mysterious.  (It is probably the same imaginative sources which allow so many to speak so authoritatively about the inner workings of the Clinton marriage.)<br />The author's primary case against the Senator boils down to this: she is excessively ambitious to be President.  Now I am reasonably certain that the same charge can be made against a substantial majority of the 100 Senators, 435 House members, 50 governors, and multitudes of state and local officials.  There will be few books written about their \\"schemes.\\"  The Senator is so favored because she, like her husband, is a perennial target of what she herself aptly calls \\"a vast right wing conspiracy,\\"  a group of powerful people who wish to preserve power for themselves and their political allies (however deficient) and weaken or destroy the progressive agenda they regard as inimicable to their own comforts.<br />If Senator Clinton does run for the Presidency someday her platform and campaign will merit close scrutiny, thoughtful criticism, and analysis just like all other serious candidates.  If the level of the criticism does not rise above the sensationalism and rumor-mongering the anti-Clinton conspiracy is so prone to indulge, and of which this book is so typical an example, the American people will justifiably ignore it and the right wingers will see that which they most fear, the inauguration of the second President Clinton.n or destroy the progressive agenda they regard as inimicable to their own comforts.<br />If Senator Clinton does run for the Presidency someday her platform and campaign will merit close scrutiny, thoughtful criticism, and analysis just like all other serious candidates.  If the level of the criticism does not rise above the sensationalism and rumor-mongering the anti-Clinton conspiracy is so prone to indulge, and of which this book is so typical an example, the American people will justifiably ignore it and the right wingers will see that which they most fear, the inauguration of the second President Clinton.	2003-07-27
US	53031416	RF8T1Q8U9X69X	0761517855	19341665	Tales from the Left Coast: True Stories of Hollywood Stars and Their Outrageous Politics	Books	1	13	44	N	N	And The Point Is?????	This book states that most of Hollywood's celebrities are liberals.  Most of them would not argue the point.  A worthwhile examination of the &quot;Left Coast&quot; would ask first if the political philosophy of an actor really matters, and secondly (and more broadly) if Hollywood influences society or merely reflects it.  Such a book would be interesting and enlightening.  Tales from the Left Coast is neither.<br />Even if we ignore the simplistic writing and clumsy editing, the book is disappointing because it is merely a catalogue of positions and sillinesses taken by some celebrities.  The point of this escapes me.  I, and I suspect most Americans agree, am not particularly impressed by political statements, be they left or right, made by movie and television stars.  Most of them are reasonably attractive people with at least some talent, and if I am pleased with them I watch their movies and programs.  When I think about politics I read and study and make up my own mind.<br />Therefore I feel that Tales from the Left Coast deserves to be taken just as seriously, and has just as much point, as the latest political statement of the most recent mega star.	2003-07-27
US	53031416	R3L3O28769CXIY	0375415289	486101271	In Search of Zarathustra: The First Prophet and the Ideas That Changed the World	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A Spiritual Journey	In Search of Zarathustra is an uneven book in many respects.  It is partly a travel diary of the author's many trips to Iran and Central Asia over a period of some forty years.  The primary purpose of the book is to trace the legacy of the ancient Iranian religious leader Zarathustra or Zoroaster.  This legacy is indeed fascinating, since it has had a major influence on the development of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam.  Unfortunately Kriwaczek sometimes is more enthusiastic than thorough or organized, and the reader is forced to leap back and forth through time and space and can wind up a bit confused about which traditiona and which era is being discussed.  Also, Kriwaczek's use of modern slang expressions can sometimes distract.<br />I enjoyed this book, regardless of the problems I noted above.  I found the descriptions of modern day Shia Islam and its probable legacies from Zoroastrianism very illuminating, so that I have a better grasp of the differences between Sunni and Shia Islam. The descriptions of present day Iranians and their pre-Islamic religious traditions are also intriguing.  I wish that Kriwaczek had spent more time on Mithraism and the Cathars and Bogomils, but what he did include was fascinating, too.  That's the only real reservation I have about this book, it is simply too short to do justice to its subject.	2003-07-22
US	53031416	R31IXUE6K5Y4OK	0974028401	638414987	Thunder on the Left: An Insider's Report on the Hijacking of the Democratic Party	Books	1	13	53	N	N	Trite Tripe	Gary Aldrich labors under the assumption that plenty of exclamation points, scattered bold faced statements, and a simplistic vocabulary are acceptable substitutes for literary style.  They are not.  Nor are sometimes hysterical overgeneralizations made more believable by constant repetition.<br />An air of righteous indignation permeates this slim volume that is strangely at odds with the shallowness of the accusations and assumptions it contains.  For example, Mr. Aldrich is outraged over a judge's ruling that the Pledge of Allegiance is unconstitutional.  Does he explain why he feels the judge is incorrect?  Does he give dissenting opinions by other jurists? No, Mr. Aldrich merely asserts  that the judge must hate God. I do not know what circles Mr. Aldrich habitually moves in, but I hope that he  can explain himself in conversation more ably than he does in print.<br />Undoubtedly there is a need for examinations of how extremist elements on both the Left and the Right in this country have strained our body politic in recent years.  Mr. Aldrich's effort falls far short of what is required.	2003-07-20
US	53031416	R1HIE73UDJHDLD	0679766693	665422023	The Way of the World: From the Dawn of Civilizations to the Eve of the Twenty-first Century	Books	3	8	12	N	N	An Optimistic, Eurocentric, View of the World	David Fromkin has turned out a very short book with a very broad subject:  the history of the world in about 250 pages, including notes. As can be imagined, an awful lot of material has to be left out, and most of what was left out is the history of other areas of the world besides the West.  Fromkin takes a cheerful, optimistic view of human progress and development, and this is as it should be if you are looking at things from only a Western perspective.  However, if you really want a good brief look at how the world has developed, you need to look elsewhere, possibly to The Human Web, by William and Robert McNeill.  That way you'll get the perspective not just of those who are on top right now, but also that of others.	2003-07-17
US	53031416	R5NTFCOWQJWGQ	0192862057	210893814	Mapping Time: The Calendar and Its History	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Erudite But Fun	This is a nice examination of the different calendars and methods of mapping time that humans have employed over the centuries.  On the surface it has the air of a dusty reference book, but inside the author is often witty and amusing as he covers the histories and backgrounds of different dating systems.  I'm especially impressed by his inclusion of the different algorithms used to calculate dates, of Easter for example, which are marvelously complex. Most readers will  never have occasion to use these algorithms, but its nice to know they're there.  I also appreciated the charts and the glossary of the more obscure calendrical terms.	2003-07-17
US	53031416	R3D8LQSVQQ6552	0895261405	647115467	Dereliction of Duty: The Eyewitness Account of How President Bill Clinton Compromised America's Long-Term National Security	Books	1	22	62	N	N	Whose Dereliction of Duty?	In Dereliction of Duty we have yet another chronicle of the Clinton Administration's supposed excesses, shortcomings, and treasonous activities.  One would suppose that the subject would be worn thin by this time, but the appetites and wallets of the Clinton-haters among us must be limitless, even for so slight a volume as this one.<br />The tone of the book is set by the cover photograph showing President Clinton with a golf tee in his mouth, apparently to suggest he fiddled while Rome burned. (As if Republican Presidents never play golf?) Inside the book the reader is regaled with episode after episode of supposed miscreances by President and Mrs. Clinton and other officials. These include another biased description of &quot;Chinagate,&quot; a non-scandal which has been investigated over and over again by some of the most rabid of the President's enemies, without result.  We also hear of such shocking crimes as Mrs Clinton's profanity (of course Republicans are never profane) and that she actually carried files with her on trips to Camp David. (How did she ever escape indictment on that one?) Also, President Clinton was sometimes too busy to see or phone people the author thought he should have!  We are left with the impression that the author is one of those happy people who have never encountered people with priorities different from his own. Most of the rest of us will shrug our shoulders in bemusement at his discomfiture.<br />The heart of this book deals with the ways in which the author feels that President Clinton endangered national security. Again, the author does not seem to understand that not everyone shares his viewpoints.  Certainly he is entitled to his opinion, and he is certainly entitled to criticize the President's actions, but to claim that those actions jeopardized the nation because they were not the actions the author himself would have taken is hubristic in the extreme.<br />If the contents I have described thus far were all that were in this book, I could dismiss it as quaint but amusing.  However, I find it disturbing, to say the least, that the author makes insulting statements about the great majority of US service men and women, for whom I, and most Americans, have enormous respect.  I do not for a moment believe the author when he implies that our military as a whole forgot that President Clinton was their commander in chief to whom they owed full allegiance, nor that they were willing to ignore the time honored tradition of civilian control of the military.  I am shocked that a military officer who rose to work in the White House would regard the actions of the few misguided officers and men who were less than respectful to President Clinton as symbolic of the attitude of the entire armed forces.  If there is any dereliction of duty detailed in this book, it lies with those who would foster the perception that our armed forces have been anything other than unswervingly loyal to any commander in chief, and they should be ashamed.this book, I could dismiss it as quaint but amusing.  However, I find it disturbing, to say the least, that the author makes insulting statements about the great majority of US service men and women, for whom I, and most Americans, have enormous respect.  I do not for a moment believe the author when he implies that our military as a whole forgot that President Clinton was their commander in chief to whom they owed full allegiance, nor that they were willing to ignore the time honored tradition of civilian control of the military.  I am shocked that a military officer who rose to work in the White House would regard the actions of the few misguided officers and men who were less than respectful to President Clinton as symbolic of the attitude of the entire armed forces.  If there is any dereliction of duty detailed in this book, it lies with those who would foster the perception that our armed forces have been anything other than unswervingly loyal to any commander in chief, and they should be ashamed.	2003-07-06
US	53031416	R13CB1NA5YZXOG	1400050308	820650568	Treason: Liberal Treachery from the Cold War to the War on Terrorism	Books	1	0	4	N	N	McCarthyism Reborn!!!	Ann Coulter has become one of the lead dogs in the ever increasing pack of right wing hounds, baying their distorted world view and pouncing with slathering jaws on anyone they view as their enemy, which basically means anyone who doesn't share that world view.  This style of attack dog politics had its modern beginnings with the witch hunts of Senator Joe McCarthy in the early 1950s, so it's appropriate that Ms Coulter spends so much of her time defending Tailgunner Joe.<br />Beginning with the Cold War and running up to the present, Ms Coulter distorts history beyond recognition.  She conveniently forgets that liberals were the earliest advocates of a hard line policy towards Communism, while conservatives were demanding a return to isolationism.  She ignores the countless lives damaged by McCarthy's allegations and the strong leadership provided by liberals in the 1960s and 1970s as the Cold War continued.  In her haste to condemn those she obviously despises, she overlooks the strong support many liberals have given the Gulf War and the War on Terrorism.<br />I suspect that Ms Coulter, in common with her former friend and fellow attack dog David Brock, is primarily motivated by the desire to earn a dishonest buck or two.  Mr. Brock has grown weary of his career as a right wing hatchet man and written a confessional: Blinded by the Right.  I trust that someday a similar work will be forthcoming from Ms Coulter.  Until then, I can only paraphrase Robert Welch's famous rebuke to Joe McCarthy: \\"Have you no sense of decency, ma'am, at long last?\\"	2003-07-02
US	53031416	R1E9BBGN9MQ41	039305179X	509842161	The Human Web: A Bird's-Eye View of World History	Books	5	40	48	N	Y	Great Overall View of History	The Human Web is an excellent summary of human history.  It is indeed a bird's eye view in that it looks at the broad overall sweep of human affairs and doesn't bog down in unnecessary detail.  The major theme is the construction and expansion of human webs, or interconnections that tie cultures and civilizations together ever more tightly.  If space voyagers ever arrived on Earth (and could read a human language) this book would be one of the first things I hope we hand them to help them understand us.	2003-06-12
US	53031416	R1I60JR358SWFZ	037575895X	155280014	Cicero: The Life and Times of Rome's Greatest Politician	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Ancient Rome in a Modern Light	We tend to view the ancient Greeks and Romans as marble statues, cold, noble, and remote.  Anthony Everitt's biography of Marcus Tullius Cicero brings the world of the late Roman Republic to life in all its excess, wealth, violence, and glory.  The central figure is Cicero himself, who strove to maintain the traditional Roman governmental structure in the face of heavy opposition from both the populares or reformers and the optimates or conservatives. Everitt uses modern terminology to help us understand the issues and personalities and complexities of Cicero's life and times.  I recommend this book to Roman scholars and to general readers who, for example, enjoyed the &quot;I, Claudius&quot; miniseries on Masterpiece Theater in the 1970s or Steven Saylor's &quot;Roma Sub Rosa&quot; mysteries (which feature Cicero as a major character).	2003-06-12
US	53031416	R1UL21X8FSRO0Z	0312243359	601276911	We Wish to Inform You That Tomorrow We Will be Killed With Our Families: Stories from Rwanda	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Too Horrifying to be Ignored	The appalling genocide in Rwanda in 1994 passed with little notice in the United States or the rest of the West.  The fact that thousands of Tutsis were being hunted down and slaughtered by their Hutu neighbors didn't register with most of us until after the worst of the tragedy was over and the piles of bodies began to be buried. This willfull ignorance is ironic because, as Gourevitch makes clear, the massacre was a direct result of Western imperialist policies and interference in the indigenous tribal system of Rwanda.<br />The book is a quick read, not because the subject matter is easy to digest, but because it is so horrifying that it can't be put down or dismissed.  I hope this book helps to personalize the horror of Rwanda in 1994 in the same way Anne Frank's diary evokes the Holocaust.	2003-06-12
US	53031416	R13AS0GWYHSUAR	0374125023	937296219	The Clinton Wars	Books	5	6	9	N	N	The Other Side, At Last!	Hitherto most of the books about the Clinton Presidency have been produced by its enemies.  They have been characterized by a high degree of bigotry, hypocrisy, deceit, and in some cases raving paranoia.  Now in The Clinton Wars Sidney Blumenthal has rescued the record of the Clinton Administration from the slathering jaws of the Radical Right (which has now swallowed most of the Republican Party)and given us the true story of a President and his Administration which, while far from perfect, had the strange idea that they were elected to govern the country in the interests of all of its people, not just those of a supercilious elite.<br />Blumenthal concentrates on the second Clinton term.  He does not shy away from the Lewinsky scandal, but covers it fully and in the context of the numerous other investigations with which the President's enemies sought to destroy him.  Blumenthal rightly points out that the President was his own worst enemy when he lied about his affair in the first place.  This deception by a President who was undoubtedly one of the most talented men to hold the office still rankles with me and with many of his other supporters, and I hope that eventually Clinton will explain his actions more fully in his own memoirs.  However wrong Clinton was in seeking to conceal this affair, it does not excuse the overweening arrogance and smug hypocrisy with which Kenneth Starr and his henchmen in the Congress sought to make political hay out of a consensual affair between adults.  Blumenthal sets out the full story of the shameless impeachment proceedings and reminds us of just how imperfect these self appointed guardians of the public virtue were themselves.<br />Blumenthal ends his book with a description of what he aptly calls the last of the Clinton Wars, the oily machinations by which the Republicans seized control of the White House after the 2000 election.  This, above all other reasons, is why this book is so important.  It is a guide and a warning for all who oppose the extreme Radical Right agenda now being pursued by the Bush team.  Even if we succeed in throwing the Bushies out of Al Gore's house on January 20, 2005 we will still be locked in battle with a well funded and amoral foe.<br />The Clinton Wars will be a useful reference for years to come.or all who oppose the extreme Radical Right agenda now being pursued by the Bush team.  Even if we succeed in throwing the Bushies out of Al Gore's house on January 20, 2005 we will still be locked in battle with a well funded and amoral foe.  <br />The Clinton Wars will be a useful reference for years to come.	2003-06-12
US	53031416	RWQK5BH8R4RLU	0743237099	112318511	After: The Rebuilding and Defending of America in the September 12 Era	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Highly Detailed But Never Dull	Steven Brill is a graduate of Yale Law and the founder of Court TV, so After is dominated by a lawyerly insistence on detail and accuracy.  The events of September 11 itself are relegated to a prologue of two dozen pages or so.  The rest of the 700+ pages (including notes and index) are made up of descriptions of how America dealt with the changes brought about by the terrorist attacks.  This could be incredibly tedious in the wrong hands, but Brill is a master at capturing the humanity of his subjects, whom he follows in a diary like format for a full year. I especially enjoyed following the travails of Sal Iacono, whose shoe repair shop was devastated by the attacks but who was fortunate enough to find a dedicated pro bono lawyer who helped him get the grants and loans he needed to recover.  Brill's coverage of the difficulties faced by the families of three of those killed in the World Trade Center is sensitive but thorough. Some people and groups come off better than others.  Senator Chuck Schumer and Governor Tom Ridge both get high marks for their dedication to solving the myriad problems of the period.  Attorney General John Ashcroft appears as a man of limited intellectual curiosity determined to fight terrorism no matter how much he tramples on the Constitution. (The ACLU's leader makes an interesting counterfoil to Ashcroft.)  The Red Cross appears first as an organization too eager to collect funds and too reluctant to disperse them, then as being so reckless in spending that multiple abuses take place.<br />The book ends on a hopeful note in January of 2003, with the US now better prepared for future terrorist attacks and with its basic values intact.  After should be one of the books historians turn to in order to understand how we coped with the period after September 11.	2003-06-11
US	53031416	RF51LWIA538BT	0066212855	817493742	Krakatoa: The Day the World Exploded	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Erudite Yet Entertaining	Simon Winchester has turned out many books on many subjects, with their two common qualities being the excellence of his language and the thoroughness of his research, so that the lucky reader is both amused and informed.  In Krakatoa Winchester has returned to his roots as a geologist to describe one of the most horrendous volcanic eruptions of all time.  In the process of doing so Winchester enlightens us on the theory and history of plate tectonics, the spice trade and its impact on present day Indonesia, the colonial empires of the British and Dutch, Alfred Russell Wallace's research and its parallels with that of Charles Darwin,  and the growth of fundamentalist Islam as well as tracing the history of the 1883 explosion and its immediate consequences.  He manages all of this in a little less than 400 pages with prose which is witty and crisp.  Read Krakatoa even if you think you have absolutely no interest in volcanoes.  You will become an instant Simon Winchester fan.	2003-05-18
US	53031416	R1QD6CLQ78FNE5	0786886781	543948528	Profiles In Courage For Our Time	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Inspirational	This book is a compilation of short biographies of the winners of the Profile in Courage Award. It is a group effort, being the work of numerous historians and writers. I found these stories inspiring because many of them illuminate political leaders who took actions they knew would be detrimental to their careers. Yes, most of the award winners have been on the liberal side, but personally I find that a healthy antidote to the sort of \\"leadership\\" the mainstream media prefers to applaud these days. And don't forget good old Gerald Ford, whose biography (by Bob Woodward, no less) eloquently makes his case for his pardoning of Richard Nixon. Many readers will disagree with some of the choices for the awards and with some of the conclusions of the authors of these biographies.  Nevertheless Profiles in Courage For Our Time is an inspiring effort meant to remind us of the highest qualities we should expect from our leadership.	2003-05-18
US	53031416	R1WZ2Q3RS1GJVL	0465023282	431315804	Empire	Books	5	132	145	N	N	A Very Pukka Look At The British Empire	Niall Ferguson has made a name for himself as the historian of counterfactuals, or imaginative looks at \\"history as it could have been.\\"  He was the editor of Virtual History, which provides alternate scenarios of past events, and the author of The Pity of War, a look at World War I which concluded that the world would be immensely better off today if the British had stayed out in August 1914 and let the Germans win. Now in Empire Ferguson has given us a history of the British Empire which any nineteenth century imperialist would pronounce to be pukka, or first rate.<br />Basically Ferguson argues that the British Empire was a positive contribution to the world in that it gave its colonial possessions traditions like self-government and personal liberties.  Ferguson does not maintain that there were no abuses of power or that none of the indigeneous peoples ruled by British officials were ever mistreated, but he does believe that on balance, more good was done than bad.  He makes this argument most strongly in covering the twentieth century, when he points out that the British were much better colonial rulers than the Germans or Japanese were.  Most of Empire's readers will undoubtedly agree with this point, but many will also wonder why it was necessary for the British to colonize these peoples in the first place.  Ferguson is straightforward, saying that the original reason for imperialism was greed for products like tea.  More highflown objectives like ending the slave trade and converting \\"primitive\\" areas to civilization and Christianity came much later,and never diverted attention for very long from the basic quest for wealth. Ferguson is also direct in saying that the major reason for the end of the Empire after World War II was that it was simply too expensive to keep going.  The last pages are especially timely in that Ferguson speculates on the role of a revived imperialism of the twenty-first century in the hands of Britain's most famous former colony, the United States.<br />One of Empire's major flaws is its tendency to give short shrift to the cultures which came under British power.  The Mughals of India are barely discussed, and Qing Dynasty China rates even less attention.  Ferguson's basic attitude is that those cultures were no better, and in some ways much worse, than the British who came to dominate them.  For another view of Britain's supposed superiority in governing Asian territories, you could read Mike Davis' Late Victorian Holocausts, which chronicles British ineptitude in dealing with famine in India and China.<br />The book is well written and beautifully illustrated.  I hope that the British TV series it companions will eventually be shown on PBS.  Like the book, it should be controversial and thought-provoking.e United States.<br />One of Empire's major flaws is its tendency to give short shrift to the cultures which came under British power.  The Mughals of India are barely discussed, and Qing Dynasty China rates even less attention.  Ferguson's basic attitude is that those cultures were no better, and in some ways much worse, than the British who came to dominate them.  For another view of Britain's supposed superiority in governing Asian territories, you could read Mike Davis' Late Victorian Holocausts, which chronicles British ineptitude in dealing with famine in India and China.<br />The book is well written and beautifully illustrated.  I hope that the British TV series it companions will eventually be shown on PBS.  Like the book, it should be controversial and thought-provoking.	2003-04-07
US	53031416	RCQOG44VOQQNT	0465022723	26964812	The Little Ice Age: How Climate Made History 1300-1850	Books	5	4	6	N	Y	A Different Historical Perspective	The Little Ice Age is an examination of the effects of the five hundred year long period from 1300 to 1800, when Europe suffered through a period of intense and unstable weather.  Fagan does not blame every historical incident on the NAO, or North Atlantic Oscillation, but does make a good case that fluctuations in the NAO have intensified the effects of such disparate incidents as the Black Death epidemic, the Irish potato famine, the Great Fire of London, and many other events. Fagan also does a good job of pointing out that we are presently living in an apparent warm spell, intensified by the greenhouse effect, and helps us recognize the potential for sudden, perhaps catastrophic change in our weather systems.  I'm amazed by the amount of research Fagan did in tracking the rise and fall of glaciers and the paths of five hundred year old storms.  A great read which will help you recognize the delicate balance of our global weather systems.	2003-03-11
US	53031416	R1SFZKDY4FPBQ	0767908368	777303523	Out of the Flames: The Remarkable Story of a Fearless Scholar, a Fatal Heresy, and One of the Rarest Books in the World	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Fascinating History	Out of the Flames tells several stories.  First it traces the life and remarkable career of Michael Servetus, a lesser-known but highly important Reformation leader who ran afoul of John Calvin for his views on the Trinity and predestination.  His death by burning was accompanied by a rounding up of all the copies of his book Christianismi Restitutio for similar destruction.  The authors also describe the long tangled provenances of the three copies of Servetus' work which still exist.  Throughout the book the authors are often diverted into fascinating tangents which add light to either Servetus' life and work or to the circumstances under which the three copies survived.<br />Out of the Flames will not only inspire you with the story of Michael Servetus and his stubborn devotion to his heretical views, (and to his remarkable scientific and anatomical knowledge) but will also impress and intrigue with the amount of research the Goldstones did in order to track down the three copies.	2003-03-10
US	53031416	R2YM6IJ5HKDZVW	0805051597	426322028	Among the Gently Mad: Strategies and Perspectives for the Book-Hunter in the 21st Century	Books	5	17	17	N	Y	An Essential Handbook	I doubt that many of Nicholas Basbanes' readers will have the resources to emulate some of the collectors he describes in Among the Gently Mad (and in his earlier works A Gentle Madness and Patience and Fortitude.)  I know I certainly won't be buying a Shakespeare First Folio, but nevertheless I value Among the Gently Mad for the perspective it gives me on my fellow bibliophiles.  I enjoy reading about the book fairs and the lengths to which some collectors go to add to their libraries. Most of all I enjoy the tips Basbanes and his subjects give me about adding to my own collection.  An absolutely essential addition to any gentle mad person's library.	2003-03-10
US	53031416	R2AK3CF8FCYBBT	0609610252	558871711	Adam and Eve and Pinch Me	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Fabulous Conundrum	Ruth Rendell has produced another masterpiece.  The main characters are three women who are all victims of a cad. He is married to one and engaged to the other two at various points in the novel.  The lives of the three women, and those of their friends and neighbors in London, entwine and tangle through numerous plots and subplots.  The bad guy gets his comeuppance in a most unexpected way, and in the end two of the women find a measure of peace, with the third becoming the last and saddest victim of all.	2003-02-11
US	53031416	R3W1Q63QNGZVQR	0060537639	264716684	1421: The Year China Discovered America	Books	4	37	50	N	N	Interesting, But . . .	This is an intriguing exercise in speculative history. Gavin Menzies, a throwback to the days of the Victorian amateur historian, has produced a massive work of speculation and imagination.  In brief, the former Royal Navy submarine commander believes that the Ming treasure ship voyages of the 1420s went much further than the African, Indian, and Middle Eastern ports they are supposed to have visited.  Menzies claims evidence that Admiral Zheng He and his fellow eunuch admirals explored most of the world, in the process creating maps that were the basis for the later explorations of Columbus, Da Gama, and other Europeans.<br />I enjoyed this book.  Menzies' enthusiasm is contagious, and I especially enjoyed his reminiscences of his own submarine visits to some of the ports he claims the Chinese visited.  But in the cold light of day, I have to say that his theory isn't supported.  Time after time he makes bold statements, then has to say that he was refused permission to make the final tests that would prove his ideas, or that the data wasn't ready in time for the hard cover edition, or that more information is to be published on his website.  Well, why didn't he delay the book a year or so in order to get the proof he claims he has included? Another problem I have is Menzies' claim that all of this Chinese exploration took place in just a few years time in the 1420s.  Frankly, I think his theory would be much stronger if he had claimed some sort of long term Chinese sea exploration project.  Finally, in all this travelling around that the treasure ships are supposed to have done, why didn't any visit Europe?  It seems awfully careless of Admiral Zheng He (who was a truly redoubtable fellow, read Louise Levathes' When China Ruled The Seas for more material on him)to have neglected to visit a continent with a significant number of literate, urbanized areas ripe for trade. (The Chinese knew where Europe was, they hade been in contact for fifteen hundred years or so.)<br />So, I have a very positive impression of Gavin Menzies and I appreciate his enthusiasm and his certainty, however I can only recommend 1421 as an engaging and entertaining work of speculation.br />So, I have a very positive impression of Gavin Menzies and I appreciate his enthusiasm and his certainty, however I can only recommend 1421 as an engaging and entertaining work of speculation.	2003-01-30
US	53031416	R1RRB0RAP4PDP1	0750927496	229358050	Once a Grand Duchess: Xenia, Sister of Nicholas II	Books	4	62	63	N	Y	Not The Full Story, By Any Means	This book is the first full length biography of Tsar Nicholas II's sister Xenia.  Xenia is less well known than her brothers Nicholas and Michael or her younger sister Olga, whose biography/memoir The Last Grand Duchess by Ian Vorres, was published in 1964 and recently republished in paperback.  Part of the reason for this is that Xenia was the \\"good girl\\" of the Romanov family.  She married young to her cousin Grand Duke Alexander Mikhailovich and raised a family that included one daughter and six rambunctious boys.  She was not a rebel like Olga or Michael, both of whom had very public marital difficulties and tended to be embarrassments to the Tsar before the Revolution.  Nor was she in the spotlight like the Tsar and his family, so that her life was exhaustively chronicled.  She and her husband Sandro married for love, later fell out of love and conducted discreet affairs with others, and in general lived quiet lives.  During the Revolution they escaped to their palace in the Crimea where they lived until rescued in 1919.  From then on Xenia lived quietly, mainly on the charity of her cousin King George V of England, until her death in 1960.  She seems primarily to be of interest because she was the Tsar's sister and the mother-in-law of Prince Felix Yussoupov, one of Rasputin's murderers.<br />This book tends to be a bit dull because there is very little first hand information that come directly from Xenia.  We never get the full names of her lover or lovers, for example.  Much of what we are told is extrapolated, for instance we are told that Xenia was shocked by Rasputin, but there seems to be no evidence that she ever met him!  (Olga's memories of Rasputin are among the most compelling sections of The Last Grand Duchess).  Because there seems to be so little real information about Xenia's own personality, the authors spend an inordinate amount of time on unnecessary details, like for example, who her visitors were on her birthdays and what they wrote to her in letters (Few of Xenia's own letters seem to have been located and used.)<br />So this is a fairly interesting book with some new details about Xenia's life and family, but by reading it you are not going to feel that you knew her or have any real sense of what she was like as a person.in letters (Few of Xenia's own letters seem to have been located and used.)<br />So this is a fairly interesting book with some new details about Xenia's life and family, but by reading it you are not going to feel that you knew her or have any real sense of what she was like as a person.	2003-01-12
US	53031416	R1RZFHWYB755HK	0618001905	966326914	King Leopold's Ghost: A Story of Greed, Terror, and Heroism in Colonial Africa	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Horrifying and Moving	King Leopold's Ghost illuminates a nearly forgotten tragedy in human history: the exploitation of the Congo on behalf of one man during the late 1800s and early 1900s.  King Leopold II of the Belgians enjoyed a reputation for humaneness due to his sponsorship of efforts to end the slave trade.  As Adam Hochschild makes clear, the King's efforts were calculated so as to obscure from the world what was really going on in the Congo.  Starting in 1885, Leopold's minions worked literally millions of people to death in the pursuit of profits in ivory and rubber. Brutality was commonplace and expected. There are horrific descriptions of attacks on villages, coldblooded mutilations, and other horrors.  Hochschild draws parallels between the Congo atrocities and the activities of concentration camp officials in World War II and in the Soviet Union.<br />This book is also an excellent reminder of what can be accomplished when decent people see injustice and vow to stop it. Starting with a few righteous souls outraged over what they saw happening, the movement to expose and end the Congo atrocities eventually spread to many countries and ultimately embarrassed the Belgian government into taking control over the colony away from the King.<br />The book is well written, and despite the horrors it details never descends into sensationalism. It deserves a place in the library of any one who wants to shine a spotlight on evil.	2003-01-10
US	53031416	R1J9OVIJAKX15X	0385497709	548814469	London: The Biography	Books	5	4	7	N	N	A Fabulous History of a Fabulous City	Peter Ackroyd has produced a magnificent history of my favorite city, London. It is roughly chronological in scope but has plenty of fascinating little chapters highlighting certain aspects of the city's life over the centuries, like its pollution problems or its cosmopolitan populace.  This discursiveness is an echo of one of my favorite aspects of London: the chance of wandering from one neighborhood (or chapter) to another totally different in atmosphere.  Although at my first reading I went straight through in a matter of a few days, I anticipate keeping this book at hand for some time so as to be able to pick it up at random for a few minutes' reading.  In this way I can fully appreciate the many small chapters and vignettes which make it up.	2002-12-31
US	53031416	R1ZO3E7NG5CN9Q	0385499345	475272008	The Lexus and the Olive Tree: Understanding Globalization	Books	5	14	17	N	Y	Essential For An Understanding Of Our World	Thomas L. Friedman has produced a readable but not superficial work which helps its readers grasp the complicated world we now inhabit.  He has a gift for creating analogies which make clear extremely unclear concepts.  His &quot;Five Gas Stations&quot;, for example, is the best explanation for the many different cultural/economic systems now extant that I've come across. The book was written well before 9-11 but has some chilling predictions and discussions about the potential for such actions and their consequences. For this uncertain and frightening world, Friedman offers insights, warnings, and reassurances.	2002-12-31
US	53031416	R3FIBVDUOR81WG	0393051633	875601847	The Annotated Classic Fairy Tales	Books	5	28	30	N	Y	Utterly Delightful	I am always fascinated by annotations of classic works because of the insights I gain from them.  The Annotated Classic Fairy Tales is especially interesting because the works Maria Tatar includes are familiar (at least most of them are) but, her notes reveal, have a much deeper and sometimes darker history than we thought.  The book includes some universal favorites like The Emperor's New Clothes and Cinderella and some less known but interesting stories like Molly Whuppie and The Juniper Tree.  Each story has a great variety of classic illustrations from masters like Cruikshank and Dore.  Another nice touch are the biographies of some of the authors and illustrators included at the end.  Whether you are a child, have a child, or are a child at heart, you will love this collection.	2002-12-15
US	53031416	RI53JDRW4OT12	0399149325	994558302	Portrait of a Killer: Jack the Ripper--Case Closed	Books	5	10	25	N	N	Impressive Research Leading to a Final Answer	Patricia Cornwell has given us the solution to a real mystery this time in her latest book, an investigation into the disturbing life of Walter Sickert, English artist and, it now appears irrefutably true, Jack the Ripper.  Cornwell did an amazing amount of research, including DNA analysis of stamps and envelope flaps, and comes up with compelling though circumstantial evidence that Sickert was the Ripper.<br />Sickert has been named before as a possible Ripper or as being involved in a cover up of the Ripper's identity, but Cornwell is the first to actually sew all the pieces together for a complete portrait.  Sickert was a tortured man, a psychopath warped by a malformed penis which was made even less functional by botched surgeries when he was a child. He delighted in inflicting pain and in hurting those whom he deemed his inferiors.  While there is no smoking gun, no confession or eyewitness account, Cornwell does pile up the evidence against Sickert so that it seems irrefutable. Along the way she also does a good job of convicting the London police of incompetence in mishandling evidence and failing to put the pieces together.  She also provides strong evidence that the Ripper had a much longer career and many more victims than those usually awarded him. Furthermore, Cornwell exonerates some of the other Ripper suspects like Montague John Druitt and the Duke of Clarence (second in line to the throne).  Even if she had not summed up the case against Sickert so well, this would be a worthwhile book just because it puts to rest the tired old rumors of a Royal and/or Masonic conspiracy behind the Ripper murders.<br />Finally, Cornwell convincingly recreates the sad, impoverished world inhabited by Sickert's victims.  London in the late nineteenth century was no place to be if you were poor or especially a poor woman.  One feels so much pity for all of these women, forced into prostitution and despised for it.	2002-11-30
US	53031416	R5EW2D39O2ZV8	1859843824	583999917	Late Victorian Holocausts: El Niño Famines and the Making of the Third World	Books	5	20	24	N	Y	El Nino and Imperialism:  A Tragic Combination	Late Victorian Holocausts is a double investigation, first of the role played by ENSO, the El Nino Southern Oscillation which affects much of the world's weather in the devastating famines which marked the late nineteenth century, and secondly of the role European (primarily British) imperialism took in deepening those famines.  Thus part of the book is a scientific study of ENSO, while the rest is a chronicle of the horrendous suffering in India, China, and Brazil.  Even if you are familiar with the typical nineteenth century European Social Darwinist free trader ideology, the callousness of the attitudes of British viceroys and plentipotentiaries towards the suffering Indian and Chinese peasants is breathtaking.  Similarly, the arrogant disregard of the sufferings of the Brazilians by their government is beyond belief.<br />In contrast with the insouciance of the Europeans when faced with disaster, Davis provides some fascinating information proving that earlier famines in India and China before imperialism weakened their societies were dealt with swiftly and humanely, with a fine regard for easing suffering and preserving human life.<br />The most important message of this book is that much of today's Third World is the direct result of natural disaster augmented by human indifference.	2002-11-17
US	53031416	R2TTMRG696ZBDK	0688169988	154474746	The Secret Plot to Save the Tsar: The Truth Behind the Romanov Mystery	Books	4	28	31	N	Y	Interesting, But Not Completely Believable	Shay McNeal has attempted to refute what seems to many to be a dead issue:  the mystery of what happened to the last Tsar and his family.  Some parts of this book have strength and produce some interesting new information, but unfortunately the main premise of the book cannot hold water.<br />The first section deals with the complicated negotiations and intrigues that went on in 1917 and 1918 between Britain, Germany, the Russian Provisional Government, and later with the Bolsheviks over what was to happen to the deposed Tsar Nicholas II and his family.  McNeal has turned up some surprising material, such as that the British were apparently constructing a house for the Tsar in Murmansk where he could await a restoration, and invokes some well known names in the world of espionage like Sidney Reilly, the ace of spies.<br />Next McNeal covers some familiar ground as she recapitulates the inconsistencies and fabrications of the official Sokolov account of the death of the Imperial Family.  Very little of this is new, as numerous investigators over the last thirty years or so have poked holes in Sokolov's official line.  McNeal brings in a new twist as she points out a few discrepancies and misstatements that she feels point the way to the true story.  She also relies quite a bit on Rescuing the Czar, published in 1920 in the US.  Most researchers have dismissed this book as an imaginative but false account, but McNeal does a good job of pointing out that the book does seem to have some information that was apparently pretty close to the truth.<br />Toward the end of the book McNeal's story trails off a bit.  There is really no way to dispute the fact that bodies with mitochondrial DNA corresponding to that of the tsar and his family were discovered in a grave near Ekaterinburg in 1991, pretty much in the same area the accounts of the assassins had pinpointed all along. McNeal tries to dismiss the DNA research as inconclusive and hints it may even have been planted on the bodies.  Ths is simply ridiculous since there was no way whoever did the planting could have known the correct DNA haplotypes for both Nicholas and Alexandra.<br />McNeal has done an enormous amount of research, but unfortunately, knowing the serial codes for Colt revolvers used in the murders and getting the timetables for British gunboats on Chinese rivers doesn't make her hypothesis believable.  The biggest problem of all, of couse is if the Tsar and his family did escape, where did they eventually wind up?  McNeal trails off here, of course, because there is simply no gainsaying that Nicholas, Alexandra, and their children were murdered in July 1918 in Ekaterinburg.  The details were probably not exactly like the official story has always had it, but in the end the Romanovs wound up in that common grave in the forest.<br />That's really the saddest part of this book, that all those machinations and plots couldn't save the lives of a man who was a bad tsar but a good husband and father, his loving wife, their four beautiful daughters, and their ailing son.<br />If you would like more information on the end of the Romanovs, I'd suggest Robert K. Massie's The Romanovs:  The Final Chapter. For more information on mitochondrial DNA and its uses, read The Seven Daughters of Eve by Bryan Sykes.he bodies.  Ths is simply ridiculous since there was no way whoever did the planting could have known the correct DNA haplotypes for both Nicholas and Alexandra. <br />McNeal has done an enormous amount of research, but unfortunately, knowing the serial codes for Colt revolvers used in the murders and getting the timetables for British gunboats on Chinese rivers doesn't make her hypothesis believable.  The biggest problem of all, of couse is if the Tsar and his family did escape, where did they eventually wind up?  McNeal trails off here, of course, because there is simply no gainsaying that Nicholas, Alexandra, and their children were murdered in July 1918 in Ekaterinburg.  The details were probably not exactly like the official story has always had it, but in the end the Romanovs wound up in that common grave in the forest.<br />That's really the saddest part of this book, that all those machinations and plots couldn't save the lives of a man who was a bad tsar but a good husband and father, his loving wife, their four beautiful daughters, and their ailing son.  <br />If you would like more information on the end of the Romanovs, I'd suggest Robert K. Massie's The Romanovs:  The Final Chapter. For more information on mitochondrial DNA and its uses, read The Seven Daughters of Eve by Bryan Sykes.	2002-11-10
US	53031416	R3E2NZIB98MCQS	1852279729	182027027	Tutankhamun the Exodus Conspiracy: The Truth Behind Archaeology's Greatest Mystery	Books	3	54	62	N	Y	Interesting, But Not Totally Believable	This is an interesting new angle on the Tutankhamun story.  Supposedly Howard Carter found some papyri in the tomb shortly after its discovery.  These papyri supposedly contained new information on the early history of the Jewish people.  And supposedly this information would place in doubt the historic claim of the Jewish people to the land of Israel.<br />On one level this is a rather entertaining book because its an archaeological mystery story with sidelights into the occult. On a deeper level it doesn't really hold much water.  Regardless of the origin of the ancestors of the Jewish people (and this book has some intriguing material on that subject) nothing can deny that Jews did live in Israel/Judea for many hundreds of years.<br />Furthermore, thinking about those papyri, the authors can give very little real evidence that they ever really existed, or if they did,that they really contained the explosive material the authors maintain they did.<br />So, the book is well written, contains some interesting archaeological information on the early history of the Jews and their religious beliefs, and also provides some previously unknown (at least to me) insights into the occult beliefs of Lord Carnarvon and others involved in the tomb's discovery.  But as to how accurate it is, and how much stock to place in its theories, I'm much less willing to state an opinion.  Buy it if you like mysteries, but look elsewhere for serious archaeological/historical analysis	2002-11-06
US	53031416	R199NPNNPSF8GC	1400046122	651303425	Underworld: The Mysterious Origins of Civilization	Books	5	130	139	N	Y	Deserves Attention	Graham Hancock has been producing various books speculating that an ancient and previously unknown civilization existed in the Paleolithic era for about ten years now.  Periodically he changes the proposed location of the civilization, originally thought to be Antarctica in Fingerprints of the Gods and now under the sea in Underworld.  Regardless of where Hancock thinks this civilization was to be found, he tells an entertaining story with much that bears thinking about.<br />All of Hancock's books are part history, part travel guide.  One of the more enjoyable aspects of Underworld are all the stories about his various travels and travails as he examines different areas of the world for evidence of ancient cities and buildings.  He is always eager and excited to find out more, and lets nothing, not even the ubiquitousness of bureaucracy ( his stories of the red tape involved in getting permission to dive in places like the Persian Gulf are worthy of the old Yes Minister show ) get him down.<br />Besides the travel stories, Hancock is worth reading because he has come up with an amazing amount of material which at least brings into question the accepted theories about the human past. I hope that his journalistic, rather than academic, credentials will not lead many to dismiss his theories, because they do deserve more study.	2002-11-06
US	53031416	R25AGKA6BDMLKF	0618126996	254771100	The Atlas of Middle-Earth (Revised Edition)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Different Look at Middle-earth	Karen Wynn Fonstad's Atlas of Middle-earth is the result of many long hours of scholarly study of the various clues in Tolkien's writings about the physical makeup of Middle-earth. If you are both a Tolkien fan and a lover of histories and maps this is a wonderful resource.<br />Amid all the wonderfully intricate speculations and detailed analysis you find in The Atlas of Middle-earth is yet more evidence of Tolkien's genius.  How could anyone have produced such a detailed and true to life world as Middle-earth over a period of many years without producing contradiction after contradiction? Tolkien did it, and Fonstad's Atlas demonstrates his magnificent achievement as wonderfully as any of the Professor's works themselves.  An essential part of any Tolkien lover's collection.	2002-10-13
US	53031416	R2CAPLB2JU1QOM	0801858690	953924302	Science and Technology in World History: An Introduction	Books	5	55	57	N	Y	History Through Science and Technology	This is an ambitious study of human history through its scientific and technological development.  It begins with prehistoric times and ends with the many accomplishments of the late twentieth century.  No area of the world is neglected, with much attention paid to the great civilizations of Asia in particular.  There are also many mini-biographies of such worthies as Copernicus, Newton, Galileo, Edison, etc. which place them in the context of their time and the overall theme of technological development.  The book is scholarly but not dry.  Attempts have been made to appeal to the laymen through notes on &quot;Cool Websites&quot; and the like, and this is successful.  Its a good overview of world history from a less than usual angle.	2002-10-13
US	53031416	R13YVO3PCH7F0X	0262660725	17352420	Technology in World Civilization: A Thousand-Year History	Books	5	21	24	N	Y	A Good Overall Review	Arnold Pacey has written a fine examination of the development of technology throughout the world.  He does not limit himself to one area of the world ( a common failing of many Eurocentrists), nor does he go overboard in praising the accomplishments of one area at the expense of others ( something many Asiaphiles tend to do).<br />Pacey concentrates on the last thousand years or so.  He covers the numerous accomplishments of Asia and highlights the important role played by the Mongols in linking the world.  He also spends some fascinating time in the Americas, which tend to get short shrift from many historians, and draws some interesting parallels between the various &quot;gunpowder empires&quot; and industrial movements.  The writing is clear and always interesting, with many nice drawings and diagrams.	2002-10-13
US	53031416	R3SV0156M25OH3	0195002660	377727040	Medieval Technology and Social Change	Books	4	20	22	N	Y	Old But Not Out of Date	Medieval Technology and Social Change was published in 1962.  It is the production of a professor and it bears many of the characteristics of such works:  huge numbers of footnotes, further Notes at the end (comprising about a third of the total book), and an extremely scholarly tone.  Fortunately Professor White writes much better than many academics, and the book contains a number of interesting speculations about the effect of Europe of the  technological changes which took place in the Middle Ages.<br />The book concentrates almost completely on Europe, so that you will have to look elsewhere for technological changes in the rest of the world, but what is here is fascinating. There is speculation on the role of the stirrup in revolutionizing warfare and feudalism, an examination of the effects of the three field system on the health of the medieval Europeans, and some intriquing hypotheses on the development of various power sources and machine designs.  Worthwhile, particularly in combination with a broader work such as Technology in World Civilization by Arnold Pacey.	2002-10-13
US	53031416	REQTSSN26OJLG	0142000159	446043681	Brunelleschi's Dome: How a Renaissance Genius Reinvented Architecture	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Filled with the Renaissance spirit	Brunelleschi's Dome is the story of the construction of the great dome of Florence's Santa Maria della Fiore.  Filippo Brunelleschi, the architect, studied ancient Roman buildings like the Pantheon in order to understand how to construct the mammoth project.  Thus the story of the construction of the dome is a recapitulation of the story of the Renaissance itself, when Europeans sought to revive the ancient learning and skills of Rome and Greece.<br />The book is very short but filled with interesting information on the dome's construction and on building techniques in general.  It also provides a fascinating glimpse into Florence during the early Renaissance period, a time of great creative tumult and political turmoil.  Perhaps only Irving Stone's The Agony and the Ecstasy matches Brunelleschi's Dome for its evocation of the glorious Italian Renaissance.	2002-10-05
US	53031416	R5Q34ZGTNA52G	0618134700	669379389	The Annotated Hobbit	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Really Fascinating	I thoroughly enjoyed The Annotated Hobbit when it was first released in the late 1980s, and when I heard it was to be re-released at first I thought I wouldn't bother with another copy.  Then I saw the new edition and was amazed.  There are many, many more notes, pictures of different editions, and illustrations in general.  So even if you have the first edition, this is well worth the price.<br />The real joy of reading an annotated book, especially one as beloved as The Hobbit, is the additional insight one gets into the author's &quot;creative juices&quot; or as Tokien himself said &quot;the leaf mould of the mind.&quot; The Annotated Hobbit is additionally valuable in this respect because Tokien was a painstaking and thorough author, who concerned himself with every niggling detail of his world and of the concrete details of his book's publication.	2002-09-17
US	53031416	R2B0PG982H9JSU	0060086564	548942802	Tolkien Calendar 2003	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The Grandeur of Middle earth	Ted Nasmith can be very proud of his Tolkien Calendar for 2003.  His paintings are a magnificent portrait of the world of The Two Towers.  I was especially impressed by the majestic mountain scenery and the enchanting moonlight in several of the paintings.  I also liked his vision of the Ents, which I've never been able to successfully picture in my own mind.  They are satisfactorially &quot;treeish&quot; and sentient at the same time.  This calendar will be a delight all year long.  I can hardly wait for 2004 and The Return of the King calendar.	2002-09-17
US	53031416	R2SV9J5N4NB6Q4	1565843592	433091924	"Exterminate All the Brutes": One Man's Odyssey into the Heart of Darkness and the Origins of European Genocide	Books	4	7	11	N	Y	Horrifying But True	Here's a unique look at the Western world's impact on Africa during the late nineteenth and early twentieth century.  Its told in a sort of travelogue as the author travels through the Sahara.  On the way he muses over Joseph Conrad's &quot;Heart of Darkness&quot;, in which a European issues orders to solve the African native problem by &quot;exterminating the brutes&quot;  The details of atrocities committed against indigenous populations in the Congo and elsewhere are horrific.  The format leaves something to be desired as at times you're not sure whether you're in the present or back in the past, but perhaps that's what the author intended. Keep &quot;Exterminate All the Brutes&quot; in mind the next time you hear someone talking about bringing civilization to the savages.	2002-07-26
US	53031416	R1Z3VHWYD5CD7K	0385722168	211011926	In the Beginning: The Story of the King James Bible and How It Changed a Nation, a Language, and a Culture	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	Far More Than King James	This is an engrossing history of the King James Bible (Authorized Version) and its impact on the English language and culture.  The author details the movement towards an English Bible and connects it to the wider story of the Protestant Reformation.  It turns out that the King James Bible was authorized out of political necessity.  The King was new on the throne and in the country and wanted to do something to solidify his support.  He also wanted to weaken the growing power of the Puritans, whose preferred translation, called the Geneva Bible, contained notes which were too anti-monarchy for the King's comfort.<br />There's a lot of fascinating information about the way the King James Bible reflected its own times (it was deliberately produced in language which was slightly old fashioned even in the 1600s) and the varying ways in which it has been received over the centuries. Its an excellent book whether you are interested in theology, language, or both.	2002-07-26
US	53031416	R17BA7A4ZYQ9A6	0312288867	687701234	Alice: Princess Andrew of Greece	Books	5	60	60	N	Y	A Little Known but Admirable Princess	I would imagine that most people outside the ranks of royalty enthusiasts have never heard of Princess Alice of Battenberg, Princess Andrew of Greece.  If anything, they know her as Prince Philip's mother.  And that's a pity, because Hugo Vicker's new biography reveals that Alice Battenberg was a truly remarkable individual.Alice was a great-granddaughter of Queen Victoria, which must have seemed her only interesting point at the time of her birth.  Her father was morganatic (half-royal) and her mother a princess from a minor German state.  Her first years were spent among her multitudinous family (Vickers provides footnotes and trees to help sort everyone out), in the background and unnoticed.  Alice's marriage was hardly a glamorous match.  Prince Andrew was a younger son of the King of Greece and while charming, not all that interesting.  Alice lived quietly until the 1920s, when a revolution in Greece and her own personal troubles caused her a certain notoriety.  Vickers does a good job of covering Alice's physical and emotional ailments and is most successful in describing her growing religious faith.  In this Alice is similar to her two Russian Aunts, Tsarina Alexandra and Grand Duchess Elizabeth.  During World War II Alice protected a Jewish family at grave risk to herself, so that she was later declared Righteous Among the Gentiles by Israel.After World War II Alice continued to live in the background, now overshadowed by her only son, Prince Philip, who became the consort of Queen Elizabeth II.  She remained a loving and wise part of the Royal Family however, as memories of her from her grandchildren and other relations attest.Alice, Princess Andrew of Greece deserves a place in the library of anyone interested in royalty as well as anyone who cares to read about honorable and decent people.	2002-07-15
US	53031416	R1EO3CDKRQTC2T	1400045045	735398183	The Blood Doctor: A Novel	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Multi-generational Tragedy	The Blood Doctor, like all of Barbara Vine's (Ruth Rendell) works, is a fine psychological mystery examining the effect past decisions and actions have on the present.  I think The Blood Doctor is the Vine work which is the widest and richest in scope since her first:  A Dark Adapted Eye.Martin Nanther is the 4th Lord Nanther, a man of great complexity.  As an hereditary peer, he enjoys his work in the House of Lords (and the income it provides), but he accepts that heredity is not a suitable prerequisite for a government position.  At home he has a beloved second wife who wants desperately to have children, a prospect that Nanther views with indifference or distaste (he already has an unsatisfactory son), but knows he will have to accept if he is to save his marriage. His greatest complexities are revealed when he begins to research the life of his ancestor, the first Lord Nanther.Henry Nanther was an eminent Victorian physician, specializing in blood diseases like hemophilia.  This earned him entree into the Household of Queen Victoria and eventual ennoblement.  The first Lord Nanther was as complex as his great-grandson, as Martin discovers when he begins his research.  Martin eventually uncovers layers of mysteries in his family tree that trace back to the first Lord's researches and manipulations.  As Martin contacts hitherto unknown relatives and pieces together the puzzle, he recognizes that his great-grandfather's obsession with  blood has marked his descendants for the next century.This book is fascinating on several levels.  Genealogists will enjoy the descriptions of family research (trees are thoughtfully provided for those who get lost in the entangled branches).  Those interested in nobility and royalty will delight in the details of the life of a member of the House of Lords and the insights into the lives of some of Queen Victoria's descendants.  And of course, as always with a Vine book, you'll be engrossed in a dramatic and detailed story with a satisfying ending.By the way, other books you might find of interest after reading The Blood Doctor include Queen Victoria's Gene by D.M. and W.T.W. Potts, Prince Leopold by Charlotte Zeepvat, and Ask Sir James by Michaela Reidtisfying ending.By the way, other books you might find of interest after reading The Blood Doctor include Queen Victoria's Gene by D.M. and W.T.W. Potts, Prince Leopold by Charlotte Zeepvat, and Ask Sir James by Michaela Reid	2002-07-15
US	53031416	RUYYOOSMQYD9C	0345444213	374292569	American Empire: The Center Cannot Hold	Books	5	12	17	N	N	Gathering Darkness	Harry Turtledove's American Empire series, of which The Center Cannot Hold is the second volume, is faster paced and better focused than his Great War series.  This volume covers most of the 1920s and the early 1930s.  The USA is a proud, confident nation, now ruling most of Canada (Quebec is a semi-independent satellite republic) and parts of the Confederacy.  President Upton Sinclair has successfully introduced democratic socialism, and the stock market is booming.  Then, shortly after the inauguration of Hosea Blackford, (husband of Flora Hamburger, one of the more appealing characters) world wide economic crisis brings on the Great Depression.  The US, with its economy sinking and struggling to defend itself after a Japanese surprise attack, returns to laissez-faire capitalism and begins to rearm.In the CSA bad keeps going to worse.  The South limps through the 1920s until the Great Depression deals it a body blow.  In such times the traditional political parties have no answers, and more and more Confederates turn to the charismatic Jake Featherston, who promises to rebuild the CSA, avenge its defeats, and punish the blacks who stabbed it in the back.  The book ends with a chilling inaugural parade as Featherston is sworn in in Richmond.I'm glad to see that Turtledove has let us know more about what's going on in the rest of his world.  Britain and France have strong Fascist/Featherston style movements.  Imperial Germany and the USA dominate the world, but are beginning to eye each other uneasily.  Japan has swallowed the former French and Dutch empires and is salivating over British and American possessions.There appear to be at least two more volumes to come in this series.  Many intriguing possibilities are hinted at.  Will the USA recover fromt he Depression and meet an emerging Confederate military threat? Will Flora Hamburger Blackford restart her political career and rise to the top? What will Featherston do to the blacks he so hates?  Will there be a realignment of alliances?  The stage is set for some fascinating twists and turns.alignment of alliances?  The stage is set for some fascinating twists and turns.	2002-07-14
US	53031416	RJ1VUJ9NFDINV	0802117058	41560393	Tobacco: A Cultural History of How an Exotic Plant Seduced Civilization	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Interesting, within limits	Tobacco is an entertaining, nonscholarly look at the role tobacco has played in shaping our civilization over the last five hundred years or so.  Gately provides plenty of fascinating information about the importance of tobacco to the Native Americans, Africans, and Europeans in Europe and in North America and does so with a witty, light touch and an ear for a good story, such as how the Hottentots became monotesticular.<br />The first sections of the book deal with tobacco's spread from the Americas to the rest of the world and its impact on different societies.  Towards the end Gately primarily concentrates on tobacco's history in the US and Britain.  Gately is British and apparently doesn't have too firm a grasp on American history, because he makes some errors and oversimplifications from time to time that will jump out at US readers, but that's only a minor distraction.  While I could have wished for more discussion of the reasons for the  increasing number of smokers in Asia  and the Third World, I did enjoy Gately's comparisons of the anti-smoking campaigns in Britain and the US during the 1960s and the 1970s.  All in all an interesting look at a plant which shaped our society for both good and ill.	2002-05-22
US	53031416	R1DYEEOWPDIF8N	0345303636	762432201	Practicing History: Selected Essays	Books	5	34	35	N	N	Tuchman on a smaller scale	These essays allow the reader to enjoy Barbara Tuchman's incisive historical analysis and sharp wit in small doses.  Most of the essays were written in the 1950s or 1960s or even earlier, but they are still fresh and pointed. Reading Tuchman is like listening to your favorite history professor.  She'll tell a dramatic story and finish up with some wry observations that will keep you thinking long after.	2002-05-09
US	53031416	R2JWHNJDWO1APJ	0809078201	514159811	Pox Americana: The Great Smallpox Epidemic of 1775-82	Books	5	7	8	N	N	An Unknown Aspect of American History	Pox Americana tells the story of the great smallpox epidemic of the 1770s and 1780s in North America.  The epidemic affected the American Revolution because colonial soldiers who had not been previously exposed to smallpox contracted it in huge numbers, particularly in the New England and Southern colonies where inoculation had not been a widespread practice.  As a result of the disease British troops, most of whom had already been through the disease or been inoculated for it, found another advantage over the Americans in the early stages of the war.  Fenn goes into somewhat harrowing detail as she describes the sufferings of those who contracted the disease and those who went through the inoculation process, which must have been almost as awful as the disease itself.<br />Although the British had an advantage over the colonial soldiers in that most of them were already immune to smallpox, the King's forces still suffered from the epidemic due to the inroads the disease made among the slaves who flocked to join the British armies, particularly in the Southern colonies.  In the African American population the smallpox germ found another previously unexposed host, and the results were once more incredibly deadly. Fenn documents several cases where the British and later the Americans themselves practiced a primitive type of biological war by releasing contagious people into unexposed populations and by allowing items used by sufferers to be distributed to healthy people<br />In the Native American territories west of the thirteen colonies smallpox also spread like wildfire.  Fenn does a good job of tracing possible routes the disease followed as it spread from settlement to settlement along trade routes and shipping lanes, decimating the Indians, who again had no previous exposure and thus no defenses.<br />Pox Americana is valuable because it reminds us of our vulnerability to diseases which spread silently from victim to victim, and helps us realize that one of the deadliest weapons of war is not man made (though it is often deliberately helped along its way)e deadliest weapons of war is not man made (though it is often deliberately helped along its way)	2002-05-09
US	53031416	R1WZX45AR4RU4Q	0802713734	707931219	Salt: A World History	Books	5	2	4	N	N	The Salt of the Earth	This is a charming multicultural history of something we use every day but rarely think about.  Mark Kurlansky traces the myriad uses of salt and the many ways salt is obtained from earliest China through Rome, the Middle Ages, and on into the present.  Readers of his earlier works on codfish and the Basques will recover some familiar territory, but there's enough new material here to justify the return.  As always, Kurlansky writes clearly and professionally, dropping the occasional witty aside or anecdote without compromising historical accuracy.  The primary value of this work is its intercultural, intercontinental outlook, which helps us recognize that the world has been tied far more closely together for far longer than many of us realized.	2002-05-09
US	53031416	RF5ZCSNCOHLJZ	0812930991	150767402	Blinded by the Right: The Conscience of an Ex-Conservative	Books	5	36	39	N	N	A Suitable Penance	David Brock's Blinded by the Right is part autobiography, part expose.  Brock's description of his early life and his first political interests (liberal Democratic) is a lead up to a major epiphany:  While a student at Berkeley in the early 1980s he saw Jean Kirkpatrick being shouted down by a group of left wing thugs.  Justifiably outraged, Brock began to attack political correctness and other foolishnesses in a series of articles for the campus newspaper.  Through this exposure he came to the attention of the national right wing,  which adopted him and assisted his ideological move from liberalism through conservatism into the arms of the extreme right's lunatic fringe.  Brock joined this fringe just at the time it reached its loudest and most hysterical pitch during the early Clinton years, a period when the traditional four horsemen of the Radical Right, greed, sexism, racism, and bigotry were joined by a fifth, prurience.<br />The story Brock paints of those years when the Far Right launched an unprecedented assault on the legitimately elected government is shocking, especially when he details the campaign of rumor, innuendo, and lies these self-proclaimed guardians of the nation created.  For all the weaknesses and frailties of President and Mrs. Clinton (and I make no excuses for either of them), Anita Hill, Vincent Foster, and the other victims of the Right Wing in those years, surely no human beings ever deserved such hatred and vituperation.<br />Blinded by the Right is an important book for four reasons:<br />1. It confirms (as if we needed confirmation) the existence of the \\"vast right wing conspiracy.\\" Brock gives names, dates, places of documented contacts and collusions between individuals and groups who sought to unseat the President and force their extremist agenda on the nation.<br />2. It clearly delineates the differences between today's right wing and the honorable, decent conservatism of the past.  While reading this book one is often moved to mourn the passing of the Goldwaters and Tafts and to muse over the probable reaction of Edmund Burke to today's so called conservatives:  would he not rush to scrape them off his shoes?<br />3. It reveals the hypocrisy of those right wing spokesmen and women who condemned President Clinton's moral failures while maintaining their own cozy little m&eacute;nages and other dubious liaisons.<br />4. It depicts in detail the petty meanness and nastiness of the so-called humor of the right wing, which came to dominate the airwaves during the 1990s.  Stories and jokes which would be too vulgar for a boys junior high school locker room are banded about freely amongst these self-described ladies and gentlemen.  I would use the term \\"sophomoric\\" but I teach high school sophomores and few of them would stoop to repeat some of that stuff.<br />To his credit, Brock details his own part in these savageries without excuses beyond pecuniary ones (he evidently did quite well financially out of it all).  And he points out with regret the damage that was done to our nation's political process and to the public's perception of that process.  This is indeed damage that will take a long time to mend.  I trust that eventually Brock's former associates will join him in regretting what they have done.to mourn the passing of the Goldwaters and Tafts and to muse over the probable reaction of Edmund Burke to today's so called conservatives:  would he not rush to scrape them off his shoes?<BR>3. It reveals the hypocrisy of those right wing spokesmen and women who condemned President Clinton's moral failures while maintaining their own cozy little ménages and other dubious liaisons.<BR>4. It depicts in detail the petty meanness and nastiness of the so-called humor of the right wing, which came to dominate the airwaves during the 1990s.  Stories and jokes which would be too vulgar for a boys junior high school locker room are banded about freely amongst these self-described ladies and gentlemen.  I would use the term \\"sophomoric\\" but I teach high school sophomores and few of them would stoop to repeat some of that stuff.   <br />To his credit, Brock details his own part in these savageries without excuses beyond pecuniary ones (he evidently did quite well financially out of it all).  And he points out with regret the damage that was done to our nation's political process and to the public's perception of that process.  This is indeed damage that will take a long time to mend.  I trust that eventually Brock's former associates will join him in regretting what they have done.	2002-04-02
US	53031416	R1W0HRES2TGYD4	0841914214	677524747	Little Mother of Russia: A Biography of Empress Marie Fedorovna (1847-1928)	Books	5	41	43	N	N	A worthy companion to Nicholas and Alexandra	This biography of the last Dowager Empress of Russia should be shelved next to Robert K. Massie's Nicholas and Alexandra. Like Massie's work, this biography by Coryne Hall does more than just cover the life of its subject, it successfully evokes the last sixty years or so of the Romanov Dynasty, Russia, and Europe.<br />Dowager Empress Marie Fedorovna was born into an obscure branch of the Danish Royal Family with little money and fewer prospects.  Her rise to fame and fortune began when her father was adopted as the heir to the Danish throne, making her and her siblings acceptable spouses for the royal houses of Europe.  Marie (or Dagmar, as she was originally named) had one sister who married the Prince of Wales, a brother who became King of Greece,and another who became King of Denmark.  Dagmar herself was picked to be the wife of the Tsar of Russia's heir.<br />Dagmar/Marie seems to have sincerely loved her fiancee, Tsarevich Nicholas, and she was devastated when he died a few months after their engagement.  Nevertheless she was able to accept and eventually love Nicholas's younger brother Alexander, and together they produced what seems to have been an unusually happy royal family of five children.  Marie became Empress of Russia under the horrifying circumstances of the assassination of her father-in-law, and the reign of her husband Tsar Alexander III was tense and reactionary.  Marie seems to have been utterly loyal and loving, and although Hall tries to paint her as a secret liberal, no evidence is given that she ever tried to moderate any of her husband's policies.<br />When Alexander III died in 1894 Marie's oldest son became Tsar Nicholas II.  Here we see Marie's less admirable side as her cold treatment of her daughter-in-law Alexandra cut the ground from under the new Empress almost as soon as she arrived in Russia.  Hall cannot offer an explanation for the two womens' lack of sympathy beyond saying that they were simply too different. As the book goes on, this lack of sympathy becomes even more tragic, as Alexandra came under the thrall of Rasputin and Nicholas's fatalism caused him to take less and less action as Russia weakened and collapsed.  One senses that the Tsar and Empress could have used a dollop of good Danish common sense every now and then!<br />The last part of the book is the most heroic.  Marie stuck it out in Russia, to her own considerable endangerment, until late in the Revolution and only consented to leave if her companions were also allowed to do so.  During her last few years she stubbornly maintained as much grandeur as possible (to the considerable aggravation of her relatives who paid her bills) and died in her native country in 1928.  She is buried in the Danish Royal Family's crypt.  I hope that eventually her last wish, that she be reburied beside her husband in St. Petersburg, can be realized.  It would be a fitting final tribute.es on, this lack of sympathy becomes even more tragic, as Alexandra came under the thrall of Rasputin and Nicholas's fatalism caused him to take less and less action as Russia weakened and collapsed.  One senses that the Tsar and Empress could have used a dollop of good Danish common sense every now and then!<br />The last part of the book is the most heroic.  Marie stuck it out in Russia, to her own considerable endangerment, until late in the Revolution and only consented to leave if her companions were also allowed to do so.  During her last few years she stubbornly maintained as much grandeur as possible (to the considerable aggravation of her relatives who paid her bills) and died in her native country in 1928.  She is buried in the Danish Royal Family's crypt.  I hope that eventually her last wish, that she be reburied beside her husband in St. Petersburg, can be realized.  It would be a fitting final tribute.	2002-03-28
US	53031416	RYYE742YUBTGB	0750926872	119895309	Queen Victoria's Family: A Century of Photographs	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Photos Both Obscure and Well Known	Queen Victoria's Family traces the photographical history of Queen Victoria's descendants from about 1840 to 1940. Some of the pictures are very familiar to any royal aficionado, but most are fairly new and show a lot of the less prominent members of the family, like the descendants of Leopold Duke of Albany, who tend to get the short end of the stick from other royal chroniclers.  Its nice to browse through and because its arranged chronologically, the inherited family characteristics like weak chins and prominent eyes really jump out.  It must have been difficult to tell the Waleses from the Edinburghs and the Glucksburgs from the Bernadottes at times! Its also interesting to see childhood pictures of some of today's royals.  There's one picture of Prince Philip, for example, that looks just like his son Prince Edward at about the same age.  Finally, this is a nice book because it helps us realize that the European royals were and are just one big extended family with multitudinous branches.	2002-03-26
US	53031416	R1VZ8D4UP18WJT	0345324250	589824021	The Zimmermann Telegram	Books	5	53	55	N	N	Classic Story of Intrigue	This is one of my favorite Barbara Tuchman works.  It is the story of the Zimmermann Telegram, a message sent by the German Foreign Minister to the Mexican Government in early 1917.  In essence the Telegram was an attempt to make Mexico a German ally in the event of the US entering World War I on the Allied side, with the bait being the possibility of Mexico reclaiming the states of Texas, New Mexico, and Arizona. When British Intelligence intercepted and decoded the Telegram they made certain that the US government and public heard about it quickly in the hopes of bringing the US into the war.<br />The book is more than just the story of the Telegram itself.  It includes a run through of the various German espionage efforts in the US before and during World War I and a good description of the unease felt by the US at the mysterious German machinations, including possibly collusion with Japan and an attempt to take control of the Panama Canal.<br />Like all of Tuchman's works, The Zimmermann Telegram is scholarly without being dull, and a real delight.	2002-03-26
US	53031416	RFIN9K390JEFW	0140176608	525340217	A Green History of the World: The Environment and the Collapse of Great Civilizations	Books	5	16	18	N	Y	History from the Environment's Point of View	Clive Ponting's subtitle is slightly misleading, as this book is less about the history of civilization's collapse than a history of civilization's influence on the environment.  This is a thorough and interesting study of how humans have changed or damaged their natural surroundings from the earliest hunter-gatherer days through the modern post-Industrial world.  It seems that any modification of the environment has unintended and unexpected consequences down the road.  Of course in the past few had the time or the vision to anticipate these consequences, and we are now living with the results of centuries of pollution, salinization, and general degradation. This is not a polemic but a well-argued study which asks us to consider whether our effect on the natural world has been more for good or ill.  It is a good precursor to ideas later developed further in Jared Diamond's Guns, Germs, and Steel, among others.	2002-03-19
US	53031416	R3TXYW5XXC9KAA	006099486X	418849151	The Professor and the Madman: A Tale of Murder, Insanity, and the Making of The Oxford English Dictionary	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Well Told Story	The Professor and the Madman is the tale of one of the strangest contributors to the mammoth Oxford English Dictionary, a madman locked up for murder who contributed untold numbers of entries and examples of usage to the Dictionary's compilers.  Simon Winchester always writes clearly and elegantly, and he excels himself in his description of the painstaking labor over many years which produced the Dictionary.  The editors had no idea for many years of the nature of one of their best contributors, and Winchester's description of their reactions, and of the meeting between the Professor (chief editor) and the madman who became friends in collaboration, is heartwarming.  This is a story which should be reread whenever one's faith in human nature and redemption needs renewal.	2002-03-19
US	53031416	R17JUA1UDWFK7R	0449006565	897961335	The Whitechapel Conspiracy	Books	4	1	5	N	N	A Ripper Rehash	Anne Perry's Victorian novels are always well written and intense. She has a strong sense of morality and justice and a great love for her characters.  The Whitechapel Conspiracy is somewhat of a departure for her in that she has chosen to rehash the Jack the Ripper legend.  Her apparent source is The Ripper and the Royals, which when published in the early 1990s claimed to have proof that the Ripper crimes were connected to the secret marriage and fatherdom of Albert Victor (Eddy), Duke of Clarence and Avondale, second in line to his grandmother Queen Victoria's throne. This is an old rumor which never seems to die out, but instead, like the Kennedy assassination theories, just keeps rolling along, adding ever more outlandish embroiderings with each new version.<br />Regardless of the reliability (or lack thereof) of her source, Perry has turned out yet another good chapter in the lives of Thomas and Charlotte Pitt, whom I have followed with great delight for more than ten years now. Although I am disappointed that her subject matter is not new, I still enjoyed The Whitechapel Conspiracy, and await her next effort with pleasure.	2002-03-19
US	53031416	R33T99Y4ZEEU9E	0140258795	803603230	Longitude: The True Story of a Lone Genius Who Solved the Greatest Scientific Problem of His Time	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An Unknown Genius, a Well Told Story	Dava Sobel has produced a lean but complex story of one of the great scientific searches of the Enlightenment:  the search for an accurate way to measure longitude, thus enabling accurate navigation.  Its amazing to read of the many false starts and hilarious attempts to  measure longitude, and it makes me wonder how many of our own attempts to solve thorny problems are just as off base.<br />Just as entertaining is the story of how the problem was solved by a patient, hardworking genius, little known or regarded in his own time.  This is a treasure to be reread many times, particularly when a seemingly impossible task confronts us.	2002-03-19
US	53031416	R2EIZCS70VQO44	0316290610	86489424	Doing Battle: The Making of a Skeptic	Books	5	10	13	N	N	A Heartfelt Memoir	Paul Fussell is one of the more ascerbic commentators on American life today.  Nowhere is he more heartfelt than in Doing Battle, his own personal memoir.  Fussell concentrates on his World War II experiences, when he was wounded both physically and emotionally.  The story of his journey from a rather pampered Southern California youth to a war veteran recuperating in a field hospital is a contrarian view of the experiences of at least one member of &quot;The Greatest Generation&quot;  His life afterwards, when he served on the faculties of a number of universities and made a name for himself as a scholar and social commentator, also makes for enjoyable reading.  Witty, urbane, and honest, Doing Battle is one of the great autobiographies	2002-03-19
US	53031416	R1VWIR559711HA	0898623480	630769800	The Colonizer's Model of the World: Geographical Diffusionism and Eurocentric History	Books	5	11	17	N	Y	Pops a Few European Balloons	This is a good critique of the assumptions made by Eurocentric historians over the years about the superiority of Europe as compared to the inferiority of the rest of the world.  Blaut effectively examines and explodes each theory dispassionately but thoroughly.  Finally he comes up with his own explanation for European success since 1492:  America.  Europe's &quot;discovery&quot; of and exploitation of North and South America gave it the wherewithall it needed to overtake and surpass the rest of the world.  A well written, well documented assessment which deserves a place beside The Great Divergence and ReOrient, among others.	2002-03-19
US	53031416	RBN1I6C3BWHMK	0060193611	112419171	The Map That Changed the World: William Smith and the Birth of Modern Geology	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Science, Snobbery, and Success	Simon Winchester has produced a worthy successor to The Professor and the Madman, his study of one of the unlikeliest contributors to the Oxford English Dictionary.  The Map That Changed the World is the story of William Smith, a self taught and brilliant geologist who created the first geological map of England and Wales.<br />This book is a delight for several reasons.  First, it successfully evokes the atmosphere of the late eighteenth century to early nineteenth century, an exciting period when scientific inquiry was beginning to challenge old certainties.  William Smith did not just develop a new way to depict the earth's surface, he was developing a new theory about the earth's history and thereby challenging religious orthodoxy.  Secondly, this book works because William Smith himself was such a pleasant, unpretentious fellow.  His singleminded devotion to geology brought him into contact with many British aristocrats, whom he seems to have treated in the same down to earth style he used for everyone.  This, along with some disastrous financial and marital decisions,led to Smith's impoverishment and imprisonment for debt and (probably worst of all to him) his blacklisting from membership in the elite Geographical Society.  It is good to know at the end of the book that Smith overcame these setbacks and by the end of his life was receiving the honor and acclaim he deserved.  The third reason to buy this book is Simon Winchester's writing itself.  As in everything he produces, Winchester sparkles and charms.  So buy the book, along with anything else by Winchester you can find.	2002-03-04
US	53031416	R25O4P2EAANN0I	0609608738	121244280	Justice: Crimes, Trials, and Punishments	Books	4	4	6	N	N	More to Him Than I Thought	Until the OJ Simpson trial I never knew much about Dominick Dunne beyond the fact that he was a \\"society writer\\".  To me that meant he was a dilletante not worth my time.  Then during the trial I came to enjoy his analyses on various news programs, but I still shied away from reading his Vanity Fair articles.<br />Therefore when I picked up Justice it was mainly to review his take on the OJ mess. I was immediately taken aback by the first article, which is the story of the murder of Dunne's own daughter, the trial of her murderer, and the pain Dunne still feels years later.  Clearly, there is more to this man than I thought.  This was borne out by other sections of Justice which deal with other famous trials Dunne has observed: Von Bulow, Menendez, etc.  All of them are well written and provide a troubling vision of how American justice doesn't seem to work well much of the time.<br />I don't mean that Dunne is always deep and weighty.  He drops plenty of society names and spends a little too much time cataloguing the lives of the rich but worthless.  Overall, though, Justice is a good analysis of some of our most notorious recent trials	2002-03-04
US	53031416	R2JM5C5A1EOG24	187918172X	531568811	From the Ashes of Angels: The Forbidden Legacy of a Fallen Race	Books	4	37	42	N	Y	Intriguing Speculations	From the Ashes of Angels is Andrew Collins' attempt to explain the mysterious references to giants and angels in Genesis.  His theory, which makes a lot of sense, is that these so called supernatural beings were humans from a distant and more advanced civilization who visited the Middle East and introduced new ideas and technologies to the local inhabitants.  He doesn't quite nail down where this civilization might have been located,and unfortunately goes off on a tangent to Egypt for some unnecessary speculations on the origin of the Pyramids, etc. But even so his theory holds water and deserves further consideration.	2002-02-20
US	53031416	R1R82FO8A6TOQF	0575400048	108550890	Hons and Rebels	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Decca's Story, Part 1	Hons and Rebels (original American title Daughters and Rebels) was originally published in the 1950s.  It is the autobiography of Jessica Mitford Treuhaft from her birth in 1917 up to the death of her first husband in 1941.  Jessica Mitford was the next to youngest of the fabulous Mitford sisters, daughters of Lord and Lady Redesdale and surely among the most original scions of nobility to ever grace the pages of Burke's Peerage.  Jessica is hilarious as she describes her eccentric childhood with Farve and Muv and her siblings Nancy, Diana, Tom, Pam, Unity and Deborah.  The tone becomes somewhat (but only somewhat) more serious as she gets into the 1930s, when her sisters Diana and Unity became entranced with Hitler and Fascism and she herself became a committed Communist.  Despising the world of the debutantes her parents expected her to enter, Jessica ran away from home to join her cousin and future husband Esmond Romilly in the Spanish Civil War.<br />After their sensational elopement and marriage Jessica and Esmond lived for a time in the East End of London, then traveled to the US as World War II was about to break out.  There Esmond joined the Canadian Air Force and was lost in the North Sea in December, 1941.<br />Jessica Mitford had a marvelously witty pen, and there's at least one snicker on every page of Hons and Rebels.  She was not above embroidering the truth to make the story better, so if you want to get the whole story you will want to check other Mitford histories like Mary Lovell's recent family biography, The Sisters. About twenty years after publishing Hons and Rebels Jessica published a second volume of her autobiography:  A Fine Old Conflict, which describes her and second husband's troubles during the McCarthy era in the US.  I hope that it will also be republished as it is just as entertaining as Hons and Rebels.	2002-02-20
US	53031416	R218LZHXYMIN7H	0684869128	460969074	The Bible Unearthed: Archaeology's New Vision of Ancient Israel and the Origin of Its Sacred Texts	Books	5	15	20	N	N	A Real Eyeopener	The Bible Unearthed is a good general interest survey of recent archaeological discoveries and theories in the Middle East.  Its quite intriguing because it reveals that most of what we have traditionally considered the true history of the region, as revealed in the Old Testament, is inaccurate.  Among the revelations:  the Exodus from Egypt did not take place under Ramses II, or indeed at any other time so far as the historical record shows; the unified kingdom of David and Solomon never existed; and the monotheistic Hebrew religion developed slowly over a period of centuries.<br />Apparently, much of the Biblical history we accepted for years was written during the reign of King Josiah of Judah in an effort to unify and inspire the Hebrews as they faced overwhelming enemies.  Should this destroy anyone's religious faith?  Not according to the authors, who rightfully point out that the essential teachings of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam do not depend on whether every single word in every single book of the Old Testament is absolutely accurate.  Instead, read and enjoy this book in the recognition that the Bible's greater truths are as inspirational as they ever were.	2002-02-20
US	53031416	R1LKOF0K0D9IXC	0881845973	916671890	Don't Tell Alfred (Mitford, Nancy)	Books	4	29	30	N	N	Fun, but not Mitford's best	Don't Tell Alfred catches up with some of the characters from The Pursuit of Love and Love in a Cold Climate, Nancy Mitford's two masterpieces.  Once again Fanny Logan is the narrator, but this time the action is set in Paris, where Fanny's husband has been appointed the British Ambassador.  Fanny has to deal with the problem of the preceding Ambassadress still being in residence and refusing to leave, then with the multiple problems that come with being related to the Radletts, who are made out to be the battiest aristocrats in Britain.<br />Don't Tell Alfred was written in the late 1950s while Nancy Mitford was living in Paris.  A lot of the political inside jokes will fly right over the heads of most readers today, and Mitford's attempts to depict Teddy Boys and rock and roll bands must have seemed unintentionally comic even then.<br />Even though this is not one of Mitford's best works, it does have her sharp wit and felicitous turns of phrase, and for those alone the book is well worth the reading.	2002-02-08
US	53031416	RGWMGP600PPAY	0375718990	714965335	The Pursuit of Love & Love in a Cold Climate: Two Novels	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Completely Enchanting	This combined edition of The Pursuit of Love and Love in a Cold Climate are Nancy Mitford at the top of her form.  Mitford was the eldest daughter of Lord and Lady Redesdale, British aristocrats whose ancestry stretched to the Middle Ages and beyond and whose relatives included Winston Churchill.  Mitford began writing in the early 1930s, but her early works are, while amusing, trivial and dated.  The Pursuit of Love and Love in a Cold Climate were produced in the late 1940s, after Mitford had made a loveless marriage and begun a long, frustrating love affair with a Frenchman.  These adversities sharpened her insights and her pen, so that the two novels are as pleasing today as when they were first published.<br />The Pursuit of Love introduces us to the Radlett family, the children of Lord and Lady Alconleigh (thinly disguised and exaggerated versions of Lord and Lady Redesdale). The heroine is Linda, a romantic and lovely girl who dreams of perfect love.  She marries a dull young man, leaves him for a handsome zealot who has no time for her, and finally finds love (and tragedy) with an urbane Frenchman.  This is obviously a semi-autobiographical sketch of Nancy Mitford's own early years.  The other Radletts are composites and exagerrations of Nancy's own sisters and friends.<br />Love in a Cold Climate focuses on the viccisitudes of Polly Hampton, a neighbor of the Alconleighs who has similar troubles in love.  It features a couple of obviously gay characters (which must have been pretty controversial in the 1940s)and continue's Mitford's theme of the search for love.<br />Both novels are narrated by the Radlett's cousin Fanny Logan, whose own placid life and happy marriage make nice contrasts to all the troubles she sees going on around her.  The writing is sparkling and bright but not shallow, and while both novels have somewhat sad endings (Pursuit more so than Cold Climate), you will enjoy and want to reread them many times.	2002-02-08
US	53031416	R3JEQCYPVLQS91	0375703683	638814949	The Decline and Fall of the British Aristocracy	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Magnificent Memorial	The Decline and Fall of the British Aristocracy is a masterwork for David Cannadine.  I love the many little vignettes and short biographical sketches which illustrate the slow but inevitable descent of the British nobility and gentry from political and social domination.  No book illustrates better the changes through which Britain has passed in the last century and a half.	2002-02-08
US	53031416	REKM68GEVY0IX	0393322785	355602103	1688: A Global History	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Fascinating Globalism	1688 takes a look at the entire world as it existed in that year.  When I took history courses in college the only thing that seemed to matter was European history, so 1688 to me means England's Glorious Revolution and not a whole lot else.  This book is a fascinating look at as many global events as the author could clearly identify as happening in 1688.  The most eye-opening result, for me, is the recognition that our present inter-connected world was already taking shape 300 years ago.  This is an important book because it allows us to recognize that not only are we not &quot;alone&quot; today, we haven't been for a long, long time.	2002-02-07
US	53031416	R1YZXVW9LQF68Q	0393010430	1686231	The Sisters: The Saga of the Mitford Family	Books	5	33	36	N	N	Sisters, Daughters, Rebels, Lovers	The Sisters is a multigenerational story of one of the most dazzlingly complex families ever to grace the pages of Burke's Peerage.  The seven children of the second Lord Redesdale were raised in a fairly conventional upper class British manner, with servants and governesses.  As five of the six daughters emerged into adulthood, she found quickly found fame (or notoriety).  Nancy became a gifted novelist, essayist, and biographer; Diana started as a society hostess and ended as wife of one of the most controversial men in British politics and as an undaunted Hitler apologist; Unity went even further by becoming a Hitler acolyte who shot herself when World War II broke out; Jessica (Decca)also entered politics by becoming a passionate Communist and later a gifted social critic and muckraker; Deborah (Debo) was slightly more traditional in that she became a Duchess and chatelaine of one of England's grandest country houses.  Only the second daugher Pam lived a retiring life, and the only son Tom's career was cut short by his death in World War II.<br />The Sisters is a good introduction to the Mitfords if you aren't familiar with them.  Even if you are a long time Mitford aficionado it's a valuable read because it covers all the sisters without favoring or slighting any. This balanced look at the Mitfords will stand out because so much of what has been written about them is biased towards/against one or more of the sisters.  Mary Lovell spent a lot of time untangling the real family history, which is important because so much of the sisters' stories has gotten entangled with Nancy's fictional Radletts (from \\"The Pursuit of Love\\" and \\"Love in a Cold Climate\\") and with Jessica's imaginative memoir \\"Hons and Rebels\\".<br />By the time you finish the book you will be quite fond of all of the sisters and their extended family, and thanks to Ms. Lovell's inclusion of information on their descendants, you will feel like a friend who has known the family for two or three generations.erations.	2002-02-07
US	53031416	R2FA3GQ15YY2KC	0195146603	2582519	Ornamentalism: How the British Saw Their Empire	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Elegy for Empire	David Cannadine has added another well written volume to his studies of the British aristocracy, the British class system in general, and other related topics.  Ornamentalism covers the British attitudes towards their Empire during the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.<br />Cannadine argues that the British took a hierarchical view of their empire, ruling it on the basis of what they supposed to be traditional English government, which devolved from the monarch to the local nobility and gentry.  In the empire colonial governments made use of local grandees, such as the numerous Indian princes, so that Britain ruled not so much over them as through them.  Thus Cannadine disagrees with prevailing historical opinion, that the Empire was based on race, by demonstrating its basis in existing class structure<br />As always, Cannadine writes clearly with few wasted words.  He continues to be a master of the short biographical/historical sketch.  A short but fascinating read.	2002-01-22
US	53031416	R3VPVWTZUZ0CYF	0140280553	654799136	Galileo's Daughter: A Historical Memoir of Science, Faith, and Love	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Touching Love and Devotion	This is a lovely tale of filial devotion between the scientist Galileo and his illegitimate daughter, Sister Maria Celeste, who lived out her life in an Italian convent.  Maria Celeste inherited her father's brilliance in full measure, and she became a close companion to him through a protracted correspondence.  Maria Celeste served as her father's copyist, secretary, housekeeper, and shopper as well as  being his confidante.  The reader feels she provided a needed anchor for him during his long difficulties with the Church.  In return the few requests she made of him, such as money for a larger cell in her convent, were supplied promptly.<br />Dava Sobel has turned out another story just as fascinating and appealing as Longitude.  Galileo's Daughter deserves the highest praise.	2002-01-22
US	53031416	R3CR39L27Z84XG	0520214749	481240225	ReORIENT: Global Economy in the Asian Age	Books	5	3	8	N	Y	How Asia Once Won (And Could Again)	Andre Gunder Frank wrote ReOrient to demonstrate that the present Western predominance in the world economy is fairly new.  It began when Europe gained control of the New World's natural resources, particularly silver, and used it to &quot;buy a ticket on the Asian train&quot; (Gunder Frank's apt metaphor).<br />Gunder Frank also speculates that East Asia's present economic growth and potential will eventually help it regain economic hegemony in the not too distant future.	2002-01-22
US	53031416	R396S6KTJCNMWR	0691090106	157750898	The Great Divergence: China, Europe, and the Making of the Modern World Economy.	Books	5	7	11	N	Y	How the West Won!	This is a classical work of economic history.  It seeks to answer the question of why Europe, rather than Asia, gained dominance after 1750.  Pomeranz spends much of the book demonstrating that Europe and Asia were developing in parallel until the nineteenth century, when Europe surged ahead.  Pomeranz credits Europe's fortunate possession of coal and proximity to the Americas for the West's advance.  The Great Divergence is good for Westerners to read because it helps us recognize that there was nothing preordained about our present preeminence.	2002-01-22
US	53031416	R1ZVKAXT6J8UN2	0374115613	256824500	Boswell's Presumptuous Task: The Making of the Life of Dr. Johnson	Books	5	9	11	N	N	A Biography of a Biography	This is a work in three parts, first detailing James Boswell's life before and during his long friendship with Samuel Johnson; then describing Boswell's long travails in writing his celebrated biography of Johnson; and then the biography's illustrious career from publication to the present.<br />What I found most enjoyable about Boswell's Presumptuous Task is the insight it gives to the lives of Dr. Johnson and James Boswell themselves.  Johnson first comes off as gruff and forbidding, but as we read on we realize the charm that, along with his celebrated erudition, made him a magnet for his many friends.  As for Boswell, was there ever a man so self-destructive yet accomplished?  Unwilling to settle down to follow in his father's footsteps as a lawyer and landowner in Scotland, he tore off to London whenever possible to enjoy the high life.  In the capital he tried to shine in high society, but usually wound up on its fringes at best.  Although he apparently adored his terminally ill wife, he was unable to resist prostitutes ( I lost count of the number of VD infections he contracted ).  He tried to go into Parliament, but failed to grasp that no one would be willing to sponsor him in a seat unless he agreed to give up his independence. (And we think politics today is cynical!)<br />Despite his naivete, Boswell was accomplished enough to turn out a landmark biography of Samuel Johnson.  Its emphasis on its subject's character has influenced every biography since.<br />Boswell's Presumptuous Task is an enjoyable description both of the process of writing a classic biography and of the growth of the biographer himself.	2002-01-22
US	53031416	RWLS1I6SYQC7C	038548948X	126353102	Marie Antoinette: The Journey	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Sparkling and Scholarly	Lady Antonia Fraser has turned out another brilliant biography.  Although she has left her native Great Britain for France in this life of Marie Antoinette, the result is a work that brings France's last Queen to life as vividly as any of her earlier efforts.<br />Marie Antoinette was one of the younger children of Empress Maria Theresa, who used her off spring as bargaining chips to improve the Hapsburg Dynasty's position in Europe.  Antoine, as she was known, was unfortunate enough to be the right age to marry the heir to the French throne.  Fraser spends a lot of time discussing the cold blooded negotiations that preceded 14 year old Antoine's being shipped off to France to marry the 15 year old Dauphin.<br />Not surprisingly, this marriage of children was unfruitful for several years.  In reaction to this and to the iron clad etiquette of the court at Versailles, Marie Antoinette ( as she was now known) led a frivolous life of partying, gambling, and spending.  Fraser does a good job in pointing out that Marie's spending habits were only a drop in the bucket of France's mounting economic crisis in the 1770s and 1780s, but her extreme visibility made her an easy target for the rising public anger against the monarchy.  Fraser also does a good job of documenting the love affair Marie had with Count Axel Fersen as well as the infamous Diamond Necklace Affair, which ruined her reputation once and for all.<br />After Louis XVI matured enough to father four children on Marie, the Queen settled down to a calmer, quieter life, but the damage was done.  She had become the symbol of everything that was wrong with the Old Regime, and after 1789 she and her family slid to destruction.  Fraser does an admirable job on the last harrowing years of the Queen's life, helping us recognize the dignity and courage displayed by the Royal Family in their darkest hour.<br />Fraser concentrated primarily on Marie Antoinette's personal life.  The events of Louis XVI's reign and of the Revolution are seen only as they directly affected the Queen.  Throughout the book Fraser writes clearly and with a felicitous turn of phrase:  the fishwives who harassed the Queen at Versailles were &quot;mouthy battleaxes.&quot;  Some of Fraser's wittiest comments are in the footnotes, including a delicious speculation on Benjamin Franklin's connection to the conception of the Queen's first child!  Fraser's wit and humor combine with her sound scholarship to make Marie Antoinette:  The Journey, a treasure not to be missed.Revolution are seen only as they directly affected the Queen.  Throughout the book Fraser writes clearly and with a felicitous turn of phrase:  the fishwives who harassed the Queen at Versailles were &quot;mouthy battleaxes.&quot;  Some of Fraser's wittiest comments are in the footnotes, including a delicious speculation on Benjamin Franklin's connection to the conception of the Queen's first child!  Fraser's wit and humor combine with her sound scholarship to make Marie Antoinette:  The Journey, a treasure not to be missed.	2002-01-14
US	53031416	R3KM7XBJV8Z6ZB	0060196955	997926972	Patience & Fortitude: A Roving Chronicle of Book People, Book Places, and Book Culture	Books	5	12	12	N	N	For all bibliophiles	Patience and Fortitude continues the work Nicholas Basbanes began with A Gentle Madness several years ago.  It is another great compilation of stories about book collectors, but it goes further by describing great libraries of the past, such as  Alexandria, Pergamum, and St. Gall; and of the present, including a fascinating comparison of the new British Library in London and France's Bibliotheque National.  There are also some nice portraits of great bookstores like New York's Strand and of some of the intrepid dealers who maintain the antiquarian book trade.<br />Perhaps the most important part of Patience and Fortitude is the section dealing with the dilemma faced by many libraries:  how to adequately store their collections, identify and weed out books which are no longer of use or value, and also provide public access to high technology.  Basbanes tells the sad story of San Francisco's library, which has less shelf room than the building it replaced, and contrasts it with Boston and New York's public libraries, which despite age and crowding still maintain excellent inventories; and with Harvard, which never discards books but must periodically send part of its vast collections to storage.<br />Patience and Fortitude is a wonderful book for anyone who still loves books.  I look forward to its sequel.	2002-01-04
US	53031416	RXCBYV2LD24KL	0394555090	951161016	Theodore Rex	Books	5	19	23	N	N	The Right Book at the Right Time	Edmund Morris' Theodore Rex has been in the works for the past twenty years.  The long delay was fortuitous, because its publication in the fall of 2001 serves to remind Americans that our country has been under terrorist attack before, and we survived and excelled.<br />Theodore Roosevelt came into office in September 1901 after an anarchist assassinated President William McKinley.  The atmosphere of fear and alarm that swept the country then bears a sharp resemblance to our national mood since September 11.  Fortunately, the events of September 1901 brought into office one of our most intellectually able and energetic chief executives.  The next seven and a half years were among the most dynamic in our history.<br />Theodore Roosevelt was a primal force.  Nothing like him has held power in Washington before or since.  His energy was boundless, his enthusiasm contagious, his charisma eternal. He seized control of the national agenda and forced the United States into the twentieth century.<br />After such a stupendous job of chronicling one of the most stupendous Presidents, I wonder how Morris will manage the third volume's inevitable tale of decline.  Given his track record, I'm sure it will be well worth the wait.  (I just hope it isn't another twenty years!)	2001-12-06
US	53031416	R3CXYJC4C5TIPM	0618154027	545294814	The Lord of the Rings Official Movie Guide	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Wonderfully Reassuring	Quite a few long term Tolkien readers were ill at ease at the thought of putting his masterpiece on film.  How could a work of such majesty ever translate to film?  Would it not inevitably be a shallow and weak travesty?  Brian Sibley's Official Movie Guide will go a long way towards setting such fears at rest.<br />My first emotion as I read the Guide was relief that so much care had been taken by the designers and director.  Hobbiton was built a year before it was needed in order to let the paths and plants settle in for a more natural look.  Copies of the books were read to pieces as each scene was planned, and Tolkien's own words were used in many cases.<br />Secondly, I was happy to see that the actors were mostly long time Tolkien fans themselves.  These are people who love The Lord of the Rings almost as much as I do, apparently.  They care about their characters and the story.  Their pictures and interviews reassure me that this is not just another part in another film, but something which demands their best work.<br />While I will still watch the film with some concern that some of Tolkien's magic will be missing, at least this book lets me know that Peter Jackson and his cast and crew have done their utmost to catch it all.	2001-11-28
US	53031416	R2EDI5IF1ZMGJP	1563242656	912851303	Asia in Western and World History: A Guide for Teaching (Columbia Project on Asia in the Core Curriculum)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Great Resource for Teachers and Students	This huge volume is an excellent resource for teachers and students of Asian history. It contains dozens of essays on Asia and the west, Asia and the world, and themes in Asian history, written by some of our finest historians.  The information on Asian history, culture, and religions is fascinating and accessible.  For high school AP World History teachers like me, it is an invaluable reference because it provides both great scholarship and intriguing little &quot;hooks&quot; we can use to keep the students interested.  I keep this book in my classroom at all times.	2001-10-26
US	53031416	R3J3SGP2M6AIQI	1552633020	78036477	The Last Grand Duchess: Her Imperial Highness Grand Duchess Olga Alexandrovna	Books	5	48	48	N	N	A Rare First Person Account	I'm very glad to see The Last Grand Duchess in print once again. (It was originally published in the mid 1960s).  This is the memoir/biography of Grand Duchess Olga Alexandrovna, youngest daughter of Tsar Alexander III and sister of Tsar Nicholas II.  She lived through and witnessed a tumultuous era in Russian and world history, having been born in 1882 and living until 1960.  She was born to enormous wealth in a palace and died in poverty in an apartment above a barber shop.  In her final years in Canada Grand Duchess Olga became friends with the author, Ian Vorres, and agreed to allow him to publish her reminiscences.  Vorres did an excellent job of preserving the Grand Duchess's voice and opinions while grounding them in as much historical research as possible.<br />Olga Alexandrovna was not a brilliant or well educated woman.  Her voice is that of a woman caught on the wrong side of history who suffered much tragic loss.  She is understandably sympathetic to Imperial Russia and blind to its shortcomings.  Nevertheless, the reader will find little bitterness in her story.<br />Olga was an individualist who enjoyed painting and a quiet country life.  She endured nearly twenty years of a mockery of a marriage her mother forced her into, then found happiness as the wife of an ordinary Russian officer.  Her second marriage caused her to become something of an outcast among her fellow Romanovs in exile, but she willingly gave up their society for the life of a simple country wife and mother, first in Denmark and later in Canada.<br />The most valuable parts of the book today are Olga's memories of her brother Nicholas, his wife Alexandra, and their five children.  Her descriptions of their loving home and family and of her brother and sister-in-law's many kindnesses are a welcome contrast to the many books which depict the last Tsar and Empress as cold and heartless.  Even more important are Olga's memories of Rasputin.  She must have been among the last people to clearly remember him, and her description of him is vivid and disturbing.<br />This is an excellent book for any student of Russia and the Romanovs.learly remember him, and her description of him is vivid and disturbing.<br />This is an excellent book for any student of Russia and the Romanovs.	2001-10-26
US	53031416	R1R3RRTZ86J6H6	0195112075	252240559	When China Ruled the Seas: The Treasure Fleet of the Dragon Throne, 1405-1433	Books	5	108	114	N	Y	&quot;When China First, at Heaven's Command ...&quot;	This is an entertaining look at the voyages of Zheng Ho, a eunuch in the service of the Ming Emperor of China, in the fifteenth century C.E.  China's navy was then the most powerful in the world, and Levathes helps us recognize this with some skillfully drawn comparisons between Zheng Ho's treasure ships (the largest wooden vessels ever built) and the puny Santa Maria.  China was unquestionably the most advanced civilization in the world during Zheng Ho's time, and had the voyages been allowed to continue, resulting in permanent Chinese influence on and control of the Indian Ocean, Africa, and possibly America and Europe, our world today would be very different indeed. Levathes does a good job of explaining why Ming China decided to stop the voyages and its international trade, and points out that while Westerners tend to see this as a failure, to the Chinese at the time it seemed a success.  This is probably the most valuable insight of the book, the illustration of a very wide gap between the psychological makeup of East and West.	2001-10-17
US	53031416	RUONDEXEDDLZC	0330480529	566609190	Royal Subjects: A Biographer's Encounters	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An Affectionate But Realistic View	Theo Aronson is a well known biographer of European royalty past and present.  Royal Subjects is a description in diary form of twenty years or so of contacts with British Royals both well known (The Queen Mother, Prince Charles) and almost unknown (Colonel Sir Henry and the Lady May Abel Smith).  Aronson clearly enjoyed meeting these people and likes most of them quite a bit, but he is not blind to their character flaws and is on the whole refreshingly unidolatrous. (Not to say he isn't loyal, as he obviously has little truck with republican sentiment)<br />Royal Subjects will appeal to you even if you are not a royal aficionado because Aronson very humorously describes the day to day sillinesses he puts up, from inane phone calls and letters to being interviewed by people who have obviously not read his books.  Most appealingly of all, Aronson never takes himself or his subjects too seriously, even when he has to deal with prostate cancer.  He has had a full life which he has enjoyed immensely, and you will enjoy this glimpse of part of it, too.	2001-10-15
US	53031416	R20WH8L816WS1A	0399147950	185638418	2: What If? II	Books	5	34	35	N	Y	Clever Counterfactuals	What If? 2 continues the work of What If? 1 by offering interesting looks at alternatives to known history (counterfactuals) written by well known historians.  What If? 2 is even better than its predecessor because it does not stick to military issues, but examines a wide range of cultural and biological possibilities.  For example, the most intriguing chapter is a look at what would have happened had Jesus not been crucified, but lived to an advanced age. The postulated result is a true Judeo-Christianity imposed on the world by an apparently permanent Roman Empire.  Another remarkable chapter describes the probable impact of a Ming Chinese trans-Pacific voyage of discovery in the 15th century.  Military affairs are not entirely neglected, as there are discussions of alternate endings for the Battle of Hastings, the Franco-Prussian War, and World War I, among others.  Finally, there is a fine examination of the role of the potato in history.  I hope there is a What If? 3, 4, etc.	2001-10-15
US	53031416	R2ESYC6YXJCPYV	0312253079	560044213	Alexandra: The Last Tsarina	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Some Interesting Insights	Carolly Erickson has turned out another in her series of well written, engaging, biographies.  Alexandra: the Last Tsarina draws upon much of the same material on which other Romanov biographers such as Robert K. Massie have relied.  Therefore if you are a long time student of Nicholas and Alexandra and their times you won't find a lot of new material here.  What new material there is, and the interpretations Erickson makes of the more familiar information, is quite interesting. Erickson shows Alexandra to have been an intelligent, complex woman who enjoyed reading philosophy, who had a sometimes cruel sense of humor (she drew nasty caricatures of her husband and members of the court), and who could be decisive and determined when her husband was passive and fatalistic.  Alexandra's maternal qualities are also emphasized, including her insistence on breast feeding her children and on personally nursing them through their illnesses. Other biographers have discussed this last point, but usually only in connection with her son's hemophilia.  Now we know that the Empress also sat up all night with her daughters.  Erickson does a good job of describing Alexandra's own ailments, including several miscarriages (which have never been discussed by other biographers), a false pregnancy, and what appears to have been an extended depression.<br />I would give this book five stars, but I am troubled by some of Erickson's sources and her lack of documentation.  She seems to have relied on the memoirs of one maid for most of her information on Alexandra's early married years and ignored (or at least not cited) much of the other material used by other authors which deal with that period.  Furthermore, Erickson states that Alexis had a hernia operation in 1912, with her source apparently being the highly doubtful memoirs of Rasputin's daughter.  I'm no doctor, but I wonder how anyone would dare operate on any hemophiliac in 1912, let alone the only son of the Tsar.  I've read quite a few Romanov books and I've never heard of such an operation before.  It also bothers me that very little attention is paid to Alexandra's deep religious beliefs, which caused her to believe in Rasputin's healing powers to the very end.<br />Even though I have these concerns, I still enjoyed Alexandra: The Last Tsarina very much, especially Erickson's insights into the Empress's inner emotions and the way she misunderstood and was misunderstood by Russian society.a few Romanov books and I've never heard of such an operation before.  It also bothers me that very little attention is paid to Alexandra's deep religious beliefs, which caused her to believe in Rasputin's healing powers to the very end.<br />Even though I have these concerns, I still enjoyed Alexandra: The Last Tsarina very much, especially Erickson's insights into the Empress's inner emotions and the way she misunderstood and was misunderstood by Russian society.	2001-09-17
US	53031416	R2OHLJZWEIURC7	0768345197	159794074	The Lord of the Rings 2001-2002 Student Planner Calendar: The Fellowship of the Ring	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great Preview!	This is a great addition to your Tolkien library because it contains some wonderful stills from the soon to be released movie.  It is a relief to this Tolkien fan to see that the film's makers have been so careful to get just the right &quot;feel&quot; for the landscapes and the characters.  Probably because its aimed at middle and high school students, there is a bit of an imbalance in that so many of the pictures are of terrifying orcs, balrogs, and wraiths, but even they seem true to Tolkien's vision.	2001-09-17
US	53031416	RFSFYPJKPY0JB	0312276737	856299566	The Last Kaiser: The Life of Wilhelm II	Books	4	37	42	N	Y	A Fresh Look at Kaiser Bill	Gile MacDonogh has produced an interesting new look at Kaiser Wilhelm II. The writing is not scintillating, and there are some ridiculous errors (The Tsar-Liberator was Alexander II, not Nicholas II). The editing leaves a lot to be desired, too, as there are some sentences which don't make sense unless you figure out that there are some words missing here and there.<br />Be that as it may, the book is nevertheless well worth your time. MacDonogh takes a different attitude than most about the Kaiser's damaged arm, pointing out that he was able to cope successfully with the handicap throughout a long life and that it was not necessarily psychologically damaging. MacDonogh also takes another view of Wilhelm's parents, Kaiser Frederick III and Victoria, Princess Royal of Britain. Most of their previous biographers have made &quot;Fritz&quot; and &quot;Vicky&quot; out as heroes determined to make Germany a liberal, democratic nation. MacDonogh underscores Fritz's weaknesses and penchant for pomp and Vicky's cold and demanding nature.<br />MacDonogh also illuminates Wilhelm's role as a surprisingly progressive ruler. The Kaiser was one of the first to speak of a United States of Europe and the need to let down customs barriers, eighty years before such ideas became fashionable. At the same time Wilhelm was advocating these reforms, unfortunately, he was also pushing Germany's imperialistic and militaristic policies until they became an open challenge to Great Britain and led to World War I.<br />One of the most interesting parts of the book is the section dealing with Wilhelm's exile in Doorn, Holland. It seems the ex-Kaiser may have grown up a little once he was out of the spotlight, refusing to deal with the Nazis, for example, and reducing some of his braggadocio.<br />So, despite the shortcomings of the writing and editorial processes, this is a worthwhile addition to your library.	2001-09-13
US	53031416	RW33D8O88ZMR2	0066211549	984651696	Tolkien 2002 Calendar With Poster	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Middle-earth never looked better	Ted Nasmith has produced a beautiful calendar for 2002.  All of the pictures are from The Fellowship of the Ring, and are done with a light, elegant touch.  Nasmith's forte seems to be his deft hand with sweeping vistas of landscapes and clouds.  He also does a lovely job with night scenes, with the one of Galadriel in this calendar being particularly beautiful.  Nasmith is to produce calendars for the next two years, I understand, and I'm looking forward to them both!	2001-09-10
US	53031416	RHUVYVDMLML04	0195148274	374461801	Supreme Injustice: How the High Court Hijacked Election 2000	Books	5	13	21	N	N	Fine Description of a Frustrating Decision	Alan Dershowitz has done his usual excellent job of dissecting a legal case.  The difference between this one and his earlier work on the Von Bulow case (for example) is that the case is one which has had a disastrous impact on us all: Bush vs Gore, in which the Supreme Court surrendered to partisanship and denied the right of the people to be heard.  By halting the recount of the Florida votes in December 2000 the Court made Mr. Bush President.  But as Dershowitz convincingly demonstrates, the five to four decision can never give the Texan credibility or legitimacy.<br />Some Bush partisans have claimed that recent recounts have shown that Bush did carry Florida after all.  The recounts show no such thing at all, and recent revelations that many invalid absentee ballots were counted in Republican leaning counties merely muddy the waters further.  But even if Mr. Bush did manage to carry the state, it still doesn't alter the fact that the Supreme Court refused to allow the voters in Florida, and by extension, all voters throughout the country, to have their voice heard.<br />I am looking forward to the retirements of the fatal five injustices, and the confirmation battles which will ensue.  And as for Mr. Bush himself, I hope he has a thoroughly miserable time of it until January 20, 2005!	2001-08-23
US	53031416	RV1889EVCZ7O7	0465067611	544791997	Queen Victoria A Personal History	Books	5	13	13	N	N	What a Woman!	I had to title my review with a paraphrase of Bismarck's well known statement on Queen Victoria because it is so apt for this new biography.  Most people probably have a mental picture of Queen Victoria as a cold, remote statue frowning down at them.  Frigid and bigoted are two words that come to mind when her name is mentioned.  Now Christopher Hibbert has done a fine job of stripping away the stereotype and showing us the true Alexandrina Victoria with all her emotions intact.  This is indeed a personal biography, so you won't find a lot of information on the great political and social issues of her reign, but there are plenty of sources available for them if you want them.  If you want to know the real person behind the nineteenth century's most powerful monarch, Hibbert is for you.	2001-08-22
US	53031416	REJN7YANIXEZZ	0374524475	883499378	Aristocrats: Caroline, Emily, Louisa, and Sarah Lennox, 1740-1832	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Fantastic Family	The Lennox sisters were the great-granddaughters of King Charles II.  As the daughters of one of the most powerful Dukes in eighteenth century England, they occupied the heights of London society.  Stella Tillyard has dug into their old papers and letters and reconstructed their lives.  Although they were women of privilege, they were in close, sometimes truly intimate, contact with the social and political forces sweeping through Britain and Ireland.  Their personal lives were deep and passionate, and they displayed an independence of thought and action which must have been truly revolutionary in their own time.  They had long, and for the most part happy lives which are fascinating to follow, especially when we remember that they were the distant great-aunts of another passionate and independent woman, Diana, Princess of Wales.	2001-08-22
US	53031416	R3A36333CBQOOD	034540565X	65820129	American Empire: Blood & Iron	Books	4	14	16	N	N	An ominous ending, and a beginning	This book was originally advertised to be the final volume of a tetralogy alternate history of World War I.  While it certainly does serve as a fine coda to this Great War, it also is an intriguing beginning to waht promises to be an even more exciting alternate history of the between war period and World War II.  Turtledove has tied up some lose ends and brought a few of his far flung characters together in some surprising ways.  He has also given us hints about what is happening in the world outside of North America.  Britain has been humbled but not crushed, France and Russia are in chaos (but Russia is apparently not Bolshevik, at least not entirely), and Germany rides supreme.  In the Western Hemisphere the United States has defeated the Confederacy and holds northern Virginia, Kentucky, Sequoyah (our Oklahoma) and part of Texas.  The US also has occupied all of Canada except for a semi-independent Quebec.  Triumphant in war, the US has turned to democratic socialism by electing Upton Sinclair President in 1920.  The CSA is in economic collapse, struggling with hyperinflation and huge reparation payments.  Thus far the Confederates have preserved their governmental system, but an ominous political movement has begun, centered around a charismatic leader who claims to speak for the defeated and to be the enemy of those who stabbed the South in the back.<br />Anyone familiar with twentieth century history can tell where things are likely to go in future volumes of Turtledove's alternate history, but that should not stop them from waiting with keen anticipation for the next installments.  It certainly won't stop me!	2001-08-07
US	53031416	R5RXLTR5OOKE7	0684847477	865913794	Wide As the Waters: The Story of the English Bible and the Revolution It Inspired	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	Perseverance through Great Difficulties	Wide as the Waters is the fascinating story of the struggle to produce a Bible in the English language during the Reformation era.  Short biographies of John Wycliffe, William Tyndale, Miles Coverdale, et.al. are impressive because they show the strength and determination these men had.  They were literally taking their lives in their hands when they dared to challenge the official Church's doctrinal line.  Parallel translations included in the text demonstrate how profound doctrinal differences between Catholic and Protestant could develop over the translation (or mistranslation) of a word or two.  Bobrick provides some fascinating material on the men who worked on the various translations, not only those already well known but also on the hitherto almost anonymous, such as the committee members who created the Authorized or King James Version of 1611.<br />As the struggle for an English Bible continued, the notion of challenging the Official Version of things spread from religious to governmental matters, and the push to reform the English Church led to the push to reform English government.  That, in turn, led to the American push to end English control over the colonies. That insight alone makes the book well worth the price.	2001-07-26
US	53031416	R1YPIQI4EBT6Z	156025355X	59832297	The Betrayal of America: How the Supreme Court Undermined the Constitution and Chose Our President (Nation Books)	Books	5	22	28	N	N	Excellent Description of a Deplorable Verdict	The Betrayal of America is a fine description of the disgusting maneuvering by which five of the nine &quot;Justices&quot; on the US Supreme Court appointed George W. Bush President.  Mr. Bugliosi does an excellent job of illuminating the legal headstands and oily wiggling by which the will of the American voter was overturned.<br />I am looking forward to the (hopefully quick) retirements of the fatal five and to the confirmation battles which lie ahead for Mr. Bush.  And as for Mr. Bush himself, I hope he has a thoroughly miserable time living in Al Gore's house until January 20, 2005!	2001-07-26
US	53031416	R30HDROJAOPU5H	0393020185	790320833	The Seven Daughters of Eve: The Science That Reveals Our Genetic Ancestry	Books	5	43	53	N	N	Fascinating Implications	The Seven Daughters of Eve is the story of Bryan Sykes' study of mitochondrial DNA and its implications for our sense of ourselves and our place in the world.  Mitochondrial DNA passes virtually intact from mother to child through countless generations.  Sykes has studied the Ice Man and Cheddar Man and was, incredibly, able to identify lineal descendants living in our own time.  Sykes' researches led him to conclude that everyone of European Caucasian ancestry can be traced to one of seven women who lived thousands of years ago.  The book contains short but intriguing biographies of each of these seven women. The book is written in a lively, non-scientist-friendly style (but not dumbed-down in any sense.<br />This book fascinated me because I am not only a historian but a genealogist.  I have a photograph of my maternal line great-great-great-grandmother dating from about 1841 which I love because she bears a strong resemblance to my grandmother and others of her descendants whom I have known.  Now the knowledge that I have her mitochondrial DNA makes me recognize that there is a strong link between us, even though she died nearly 100 years before I was born.  I plan to have my own DNA tested so that I can learn which of the seven Eves was my own distant grandmother	2001-07-26
US	53031416	R11JTYOG69MIY0	0385334796	754260818	The Atlantis Blueprint: Unlocking the Ancient Mysteries of a Long-Lost Civilization	Books	4	7	11	N	Y	Not to be put aside lightly	The Atlantis Blueprint has some thought provoking information on the possibility that human civilization is many thousands of years older than orthodox science thinks.  Its unfortunate that Wilson and Flem-Ath, who always turn out interesting and thought provoking work, should be so easily distracted into such tangents as the theory that Jesus was an Essene.  Such digressions distract from the main thesis.  The similarities between ancient Asian and American cultures which Wilson and Flem-Ath cite are among many intriguing observations which  deserve closer study.  I hope that mainstream archaeologists and scientists will put aside their automatic suspicions of anything which smacks of the paranormal and take a close look at what Wilson and Flem-Ath are saying	2001-06-29
US	53031416	R34XFP6OO1DNAY	0932813429	851462386	Maps of the Ancient Sea Kings: Evidence of Advanced Civilization in the Ice Age	Books	5	181	193	N	Y	Scholarly and Challenging	Charles Hapgood's Maps of the Ancient Sea Kings is a much needed scholarly examination of the large number of maps dating from the Renaissance period which seem to show an ice-free Antarctica and accurate depictions of areas thought to have been unknown at the time the maps were drawn.  Since the maps in question were based on older maps which are now lost, the inevitable question is:  How in the world could they have been created? Hapgood does not draw fantastic conclusions about ancient astronauts or magical powers, he simply sets forth compelling evidence that civilization is far older than orthodox science thinks.  His work deserves to be taken seriously,not ignored.	2001-06-29
US	53031416	R38LYP1GUQWXQ3	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	5	22	26	N	N	Wonderful biography, Wonderful author	David McCullough is a living refutation of the idea that scholarly history must necessarily be dull and lifeless.  Whatever his subject, from Harry Truman to the Johnstown Flood, McCullough makes the story come alive.  Now he has added a worthy successor to his earlier works in this new biography of our second President.  When most people think of John Adams (if they think of him at all) they imagine a dry, humorless fellow who was a valley of Presidential failure between two mountain peaks of Presidential success (Washington and Jefferson).  Now, thanks to McCullough, we can see Adams as he really was, intelligent and scholarly, but with wit (read his reply to the French lady who asked him about the origins of sex) and verve.  Furthermore, Adams was a deeply religious man whose faith in God was fundamental to his understanding of law and government.  Adams was fortunate in that he had a wife whose intelligence and spirit was a match to his own.  (The chapter &quot;Abigail in Paris&quot; is one of the most delightful sections of the book).<br />McCullough also reassesses the Adams Administration and reveals that it was far from a failure.  Adams steered a middle course between the pro-French Republicans and the pro-British High Federalists, earning himself the enmity of both and great public unpopularity, because he realized the US was in no condition to fight a war.<br />After his defeat in the 1800 election Adams was understandably embittered with his old friend Thomas Jefferson, but in another beautiful segment McCullough describes how the friendship was rebuilt so that it endured until the day Adams and Jefferson both died, July 4, 1826.<br />This is McCullough's masterpiece (thus far!)	2001-06-22
US	53031416	R1WJDZJWHGIAW5	0786708107	476273474	Gateway to Atlantis: The Search for the Source of a Lost Civilization	Books	5	12	15	N	N	At last, a down to earth Atlantean theory!	Its nice to finally read something about Atlantis which doesn't rely on ancient astronauts or mystical crystals! Andrew Collins believes that Atlantis was located in the West Indies and related islands, basing his theory not on shadowy ideas about ruins under the ocean but on realistic measurements of travel times, directions, and other clues found in Plato and other ancients who mentioned a lost civilization to the west.  While this book won't do much for the von Daniken crowd, it will certainly please those who can distinguish fact from mysticism!	2001-06-22
US	53031416	R367VV6NWN052W	0345408764	517687265	Catastrophe: An Investigation into the Origins of Modern Civilization	Books	4	5	8	N	N	It all started with an eruption	Catastrophe is an intriguing explanation for why the Dark Ages were literally dark.  In 535 A.D. a volcanic eruption in Indonesia caused a series of events, from the decline of Byzantium to the rise of Islam to developments in Asia, Africa, and America which eventually led to the rise of the modern world.  Keys is writing for the general public, not historians, and he provides timelines and charts to help his readers make the connections and draw the conclusions his material warrants.<br />The evidence Keys presents is interesting and certainly gives the reader a lot to ponder.  The weakest part of the book is the last section, called &quot;The Future&quot;, which is only a mishmash of different catastrophic possibilities.	2001-06-22
US	53031416	RRM83G7O1FGR3	0385500904	782854514	The Disastrous Mrs. Weldon: The Life, Loves and Lawsuits of a Legendary Victorian	Books	4	11	12	N	N	No Georgiana Devonshire here!	I suspect that The Disastrous Mrs. Weldon was written at least in part to take advantage of the audience which enjoyed Amanda Foreman's Georgiana Duchess of Devonshire.  On the surface the two women are quite similar (besides having nearly identical names.)  Both were headstrong, passionate women who were ultimately self-destructive.  The difference is that Georgiana Spencer Cavendish at least had a smattering of social conscience, enough to get involved in politics to help her Whig friends.  Georgina Weldon, on the other hand, rarely seems able to look beyond her own immediate need for gratification.  The Disastrous Mrs. Weldon is amusing and addictive (you'll be sorry when the book ends) and does point out that not all Victorians were rigid moralists, but ultimately it can't rise above the fact that its protagonist was shallow.	2001-06-22
US	53031416	RTAOYRLH16ED9	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	5	59	63	N	N	Excellent biography, Excellent author	Its a given that whenever you see David McCullough's name on a book cover that the scholarship will be awesome and the writing will be brisk and entertaining.  John Adams is exceptional in that McCullough has managed to outdo even his works on Harry Truman and Theodore Roosevelt, which takes some doing, believe me.  The typical view of John Adams is that he was a dull, humorless failure of a President sandwiched between the two great success stories of George Washington and Thomas Jefferson.  McCullough shows us Adams the wit, Adams the innovator, and Adamsthe truly good man.  Furthermore, McCullough also lets us see the entire Adams family, especially Abigail, John's soul mate in every possible way; and his son John Quincy, a worthy heir to his giant of a father.  As Revolutionary leader, Adams was one of the first to be determined that the colonies should be free from Britain and one of the strongest representatives the country had in France, Holland, and England. As President, Adams had the thankless job of balancing between the pro-British High Federalists and the pro-French Republicans so as to keep the USout of a war which he knew we could not afford. Neither vain nor charismatic, Adams met the all too common fate of those who merely do a good job without hogging the limelight:  he was jeered, ignored, and pushed to one side while he still had many more years he could have served.  Another fascinating aspect of Adams' life which McCullough covers brilliantly is his long friendship with Thomas Jefferson.  The two men were quite different in style and manner, but were close friends for many years until political differences divided them.  I was very happy to read McCullough's account of how the friendship was restored after both men were in retirement, and to know that they kept in contact with each other almost up to the day they both died, July 4, 1826.	2001-06-20
US	53031416	R1ZDT29L9MLS9T	0684853183	826956058	Edward the Caresser: The Playboy Prince Who Became Edward VII	Books	5	30	32	N	N	Looking forward to the sequel!	Edward the Caresser is a fine biography of the Prince of Wales who became King Edward VII.  The title is slightly misleading since he was only called &quot;Edward the Caresser&quot; after he became King in 1901, and while he was Prince of Wales he was known to the public as &quot;Prince Albert Edward&quot;.  But such quibbling should be put aside.  This is a wonderfully entertaining story of a boy and man who had many fine qualities which were not appreciated by his parents Queen Victoria and Prince Albert, who set impossibly high standards for him and were constantly and openly disappointed when he failed to meet them.  Bertie (as he was known in the family) also had to deal with being compared to his  older sister and younger brother, who were their parents' favorites. After being made to bear the burden of being (in his mother's eyes) the chief contributor to his father's death, Bertie spent the rest of Victoria's reign looking for something to do.  Since the Queen refused to allow him constructive work,  having fun in various dissipations was his main occupation.  Given such a background, the fact that Bertie turned out to be a kind, good natured man with a wide circle of friends and a loving wife and family is surprising.<br />Stanley Weintraub always produces a fine biography, and I hope he will follow up on &quot;Edward the Caresser&quot; with another volume on Edward VII's reign.  It will be interesting to see how the playboy prince from an emotionall disadvantaged background turned into one of the most successful and well beloved British monarchs of the twentieth centuries	2001-05-15
US	53031416	R16QWD7FP9HRDT	0684842165	128369369	An Uncommon Woman - The Empress Frederick: Daughter of Queen Victoria, Wife of the Crown Prince of Prussia, Mother of Kaiser Wilhelm	Books	5	34	35	N	N	Destiny Denied	Vicky, Princess Royal of Great Britain and Empress Frederick of Germany, was raised by her parents Queen Victoria and Prince Albert with a specific purpose.  She was to be the instrument by which the divided Germany of her youth was to be unified and remade in the image of Britain, a constitutional monarchy with leanings towards liberal democracy.  Vicky did her best to accomplish this, and to a point she succeeded.  She was a great and positive influence on her husband Frederick (Fritz) and helped wean him away from the Prussian militarism in which he had been raised.  Unfortunately, Vicky was unable to overcome the influence of Otto von Bismarck on her father in law Kaiser  William I.  Bismarck united Germany, but as an absolute monarchy with only a travesty of representative government.  More tragic was Vicky's failure to influence her son and Fritz's heir, the future Kaiser William II.  When &quot;Willy&quot; came to the throne after Fritz's tragic death in 1888, he inexorably led Germany down the road to World War I.<br />Since Vicky failed, why read her story?  Because she was a brilliant, brave, charming, stubborn woman dedicated to her principles.  She loved her family and both her countries with all her heart.  Today she should be remembered as a woman who could have changed so much history for the better had she only had the chance.	2001-04-18
US	53031416	RF506RHKJBN0	0750922753	834402038	The Romanovs 1818-1959	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Good, but also read ...	This book on the Romanovs is a good description of the Romanov dynasty in its last century, concentrating primarily on the lives of Tsar Alexander II and his descendants.  It does a good job covering the political and military events of the time, but is quite sketchy on the personal lives and characters of the last three Tsars and their relatives.  This is a good book to have along with Charlotte Zeepvat's  &quot;Romanov Autumn&quot;, which covers the same time period but with a more personal slant.	2001-04-18
US	53031416	R3A4Z0EWHLBXGF	0380731916	745987583	Michael and Natasha: The Life And Love Of Michael ll, The Last Of The Romanov Tsars	Books	3	19	31	N	N	No Nicholas and Alexandra	Rosemary Crawford makes a great effort to ennoble Michael and his wife Natasha as great heroes who could have headed off the Bolshevik Revolution if only they had not been stymied by the bigoted Nicholas and Alexandra.  The truth is rather different.  Michael was a talented man who wasted his time as a playboy when he could have been providing advice and assistance to his older brother, the Tsar.  Instead of doing his duty as a Romanov and marrying a Princess ( several were willing and eager to be his bride ), he fell in love with a woman who, regardless of her beauty and elegance, must be regarded as an adventuress.  Their narcissism meant Nicholas II had to worry about his younger brother's escapades when he had enough to do worrying about his empire.  I find it reprehensible that Michael chose to marry Natasha at the very moment his nephew Alexis lay close to death.  What is even more inexcusable is Michael's refusal to take the throne in March 1917, not from any noble motives, but from fear for his own safety.  While I'm sure Nichael and Natasha were pleasant people in St. Petersburg high society, they were completely unsuitable as part of a reigning dynasty.	2001-03-29
US	53031416	R1VL2FJVVZ0CK9	0786706783	325488418	Elizabeth: Grand Duchess of Russia	Books	5	4	6	N	N	A Virtuous Royalty	Elizabeth, Princess of Hesse and Grand Duchess of Russia, led a life which can be divided into two very different parts.  In her first years she led a privileged and pampered existence as the beautiful daughter of the Grand Duke of Hesse-Darmstadt and, more importantly, the granddaughter of Queen Victoria.  She could have married her cousin, the future Kaiser William II, but refused him in order to marry a rather strange and enigmatic figure, the Grand Duke Serge, younger brother of the Tsar.  This marriage is the first hint of mystery in Elizabeth's (Ella's) life.  Serge was a difficult, overbearing, probably homosexual man, and it is strange that Ella loved him as much as she evidently did.  She lived an opulent life in St. Petersburg and Moscow until January 1905, when Serge was assassinated.  Ella visited his murderer in prison and forgave him, then devoted the rest of her life to charity and good works as the founder and head of an order of Orthodox nuns.  During the Revolution she was arrested and cruelly murdered at about the same time as her yonger sister Alexandra and brother-in-law Nicholas II.  This book is interesting because of its insights into the inner life of this deeply spiritual woman.	2001-03-29
US	53031416	RYGE662JIH0OP	0750922923	868834276	Prince Leopold	Books	4	49	51	N	N	An overlooked but gifted Prince	Prince Leopold, Duke of Albany, was the youngest son of Queen Victoria.  His hemophilia caused his mother, a temperamental and difficult parent to all of her children, to smother him with care and starve him of true affection.  It is a tribute to Prince Leopold's innate strength of character that he grew up to be mentally sound and in many ways the most gifted of the Queen's nine children.  His frequent illnesses forced him to assume a lower profile than did his siblings, but his love of creativity assured him warm friendships with many of the leading artistic and cultural lights of the Victorian era.  His ability to cope with his illness with grace and good humor makes his early death an even greater tragedy.  If he had lived on into the reign of his niece Alexandra, Empress of Russia, for example, he might have been able to proffer her some fatherly advice on how to handle her son's hemophilia, thus preventing her from falling into Rasputin's clutches.	2001-03-28
US	53031416	R1X6FECF11VB29	189355418X	303138505	The Abolition of Britain: From Winston Churchill to Princess Diana	Books	3	12	23	N	N	A British &quot;Slouching Towards Gomorrah&quot;	First I must say that this is an extremely well written and engaging work. You will enjoy it whether you agree with the author or not. As an American I cannot rely on first hand knowledge of British society over the last few years to say whether Mr. Hitchens is overstating his case or not. From my experience of the United States over the same period, I suspect that some of what he says is accurate, particularly as regards the schools.<br />I do not believe that Mr. Hitchens is correct in blaming the coarsening of culture on the ascension to power of a ³Left² sometime in the last thirty five years or so, however. All I can say about that is that if it is true, it is a remarkably inefficient Left since Britain was governed by the Tories for much of that time. His claims that the Left seeks to make future Tory victories unlikely through ridicule by satirical TV shows are odd as well, since those programs were on the air right through the period of Tory rule, and I suspect the average British voter is able to enjoy political humor without being brainwashed, as Mr. Hitchens suggests. After all, here in the US most political humor in the last decade has been right wing, but that has not stopped the election and reelection of Bill Clinton and the election of Al Gore (stolen though it was).<br />This book reminds me of Robert Bork¹s ³Slouching Through Gomorrah², which also chronicles the decline of culture (American this time) as seen by a conservative. Both books look back to a sunnier time period before decadence set in, and blame progressive/ liberals or socialists for the cultural collapse. Both seem to be under the impression that in ³the good old days² there were no problems, and both seem curiously unaware that in those days a lot of problems were ignored or covered up and a lot of people were pushed to one side. Mr. Hitchens often mentions the eighteenth century as a British golden age. I don¹t know what the Hitchens ancestry is, but unless his forebears were gentry or aristocracy, I doubt that they would have considered their age to be as glorious as Mr. Hitchens claims. Nor do I find my memories of the 1950s (I am five years younger than Mr. Hitchens) to be as rosy as his.<br />The book¹s best part is the comparison of the Churchill and Wales funerals of 1965 and 1997. It is true that the cultural and social changes in those 32 years are amazing, but I think we are still far too close to them in time and emotion to adequately judge whether those changes have been as far reaching and as negative as Mr. Hitchens claims.e gentry or aristocracy, I doubt that they would have considered their age to be as glorious as Mr. Hitchens claims. Nor do I find my memories of the 1950s (I am five years younger than Mr. Hitchens) to be as rosy as his. <br />The book¹s best part is the comparison of the Churchill and Wales funerals of 1965 and 1997. It is true that the cultural and social changes in those 32 years are amazing, but I think we are still far too close to them in time and emotion to adequately judge whether those changes have been as far reaching and as negative as Mr. Hitchens claims.	2001-02-27
US	53031416	RYRTNA5PMX4BW	078670828X	805063835	The Royal Families of Europe	Books	3	19	19	N	Y	Interesting gossip, flawed research	This is an excellent summary of the present state of European royals at the beginning of the 3rd millenium.  Its nice to have information on which Hapsburg has married which Oldenburg and what the present state of the monarchist cause is in various countries in Eastern Europe.  Historically the book is somewhat flawed by some sloppy research and/or editing.  For example, the chapter on the Belgian Royal Family is fraught with errors.  King Albert I is referred to as Alfred at one point, and there are numerous genealogical mistakes (Albert I was nephew, not son, of Leopold II).  I don't regret buying the book for its information on present day royals, but I would not rely on it for research on their predecessors.	2001-02-19
US	53031416	RG8DJ1K26Q6X2	1585670421	114858953	The English: A Portrait of a People	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A Green and Pleasant Land?	Jeremy Paxman has written an entertaining and affectionate look at the English people.  Wisely, he goes to some lengths to explain that English and British are not synonymous, though many foreigners assume that they are.  Overall, his view of the English is kindly, but he does not hesitate to skewer a few pretensions.  For example, he points out that the boorish behavior of some English soccer fans is not an aberration, but a throwback to pre-Victorian violence and drunkenness.  Nevertheless Paxman spends much time on the inner strengths of the English,such as their capacity to pull together and survive horrendous difficulties like the Blitz.  All in all inveterate Anglophiles will find much to enjoy and much to ponder in this work.	2001-02-19
US	53031416	R1G6GW5GGVQGZO	1842120328	981716761	Queen Mary 1867-1953	Books	5	22	24	N	N	A wonderful biography	I am so glad to see James Pope-Hennessey's Queen Mary in print again after so many years.  This is the official biography of the present Queen's grandmother, originally published in 1959 or 1960.  Most official biographies are dull.  Queen Mary is not.  It accomplishes that which all biographies should desire:  not just a bare record of the subject's life, but an evocation of the subject's world.  Every home of Queen Mary is elegantly described.  Her travels in Italy and elsewhere and her visits to the homes of relations in England and in Germany are exhaustively but not boringly documented.  Pope-Hennessey's prose is stately, almost eighteenth century, but always lucid and often witty.  My favorite sections of the book are those dealing with Queen Mary's life before her marriage, when she was a morganatic princess with few prospects. Her often difficult and embarrassing early life made her a suitable prospect for a bride for the Duke of Clarence and Avondale, second in line to the British throne.  The Duke, or Eddy as he was known in the family, was a difficult young man with embarrassing habits (since this is an official biography written under the auspices of Buckingham Palace, Pope-Hennessey was necessarily circumspect about these habits.  You will not find a discussion of the Cleveland Street scandal here, for instance).  When Eddy died a few weeks after his engagement was announced, his fiancee (and the British Empire) was transferred to his more suitable younger brother George, Duke of York.  Although the circumstances of her marriage and ascent into the highest levels of British royalty were a little unusual, Queen Mary was the epitome of royal dignity for the rest of her life as Duchess of York, Princess of Wales, Queen Consort, and finally Queen Dowager.  Pope-Hennessey's coverage of the Queen's personal life is a bit limited,once again due to the limits placed on an official historian.  Her relationships with her husband and children, especially the Duke of Windsor, are not dealt with in much detail, and her personal peccadillos, such as her penchant for dropping broad hints about presents she would like, are not covered at all.  But there are plenty of unofficial sources if you are looking for that sort of thing about Queen Mary and her family.  Pope-Hennessey is the best choice for those looking for a beautifully written description of life in a vanished world.of Windsor, are not dealt with in much detail, and her personal peccadillos, such as her penchant for dropping broad hints about presents she would like, are not covered at all.  But there are plenty of unofficial sources if you are looking for that sort of thing about Queen Mary and her family.  Pope-Hennessey is the best choice for those looking for a beautifully written description of life in a vanished world.	2000-12-21
US	53031416	R1XDVD2KF754UP	0750923377	188729695	Romanov Autumn	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Good coverage of some overlooked royals	Most books about the Romanovs concentrate on the last Tsar and his family.  Nicholas II was an interesting figure, but he was the head of a large and fascinating family, most of whom are little known today.  &quot;Romanov Autumn&quot; gives some detail to the lives of these now obscure people.  One thing rather disconcerting is Zeepvat's use of unusual titles, like &quot;Tsesarevitch&quot; or &quot;Grand Prince&quot;.  Although she explains in her introduction that these are more accurate translations of the Russian titles, most people who read about the Romanovs are so used to &quot;Tsarevitch&quot; or &quot;Grand Duke&quot; that the new forms are jarring.  Nevertheless, a Romanov fan should not be without this book.	2000-12-08
US	53031416	R26O1OBW9000VK	0393046451	508699678	American Dreamer: The Life and Times of Henry A. Wallace	Books	5	6	9	N	N	An Idealist in Politics!	If, like many of us, you are dispirited by most present day politicians, read &quot;American Dreamer&quot; and realize that it is possible to hold on to your ideals and still achieve something in US politics.  Henry  Wallace must have been one of the most intelligent men to serve our  country.  It is sobering to think he most likely would never be confirmed  as Secretary of Agriculture today, and certainly would never be considered  an appropriate choice for Vice President.  Imagine, someone who actually  thinks for himself in high office! Of course, idealism has its drawbacks,  and certainly Henry Wallace was blind to some of the less savory aspects of  his more leftist supporters.  Thus, although I would have liked to have  known Henry Wallace,  I certainly am glad he was not the Vice President on  April 12, 1945.	2000-07-31
US	53031416	R3IDIXHQKUXEPX	0394587367	710187821	Diana Mosley: A biography of the glamorous Mitford sister who became Hitler's friend and married the leader of  Britain's fascists	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Intriguing and horrifying	It is difficult for most people living at the beginning of the twenty first century to understand the attraction Adolf Hitler had for intelligent, civilized people.  &quot;Diana Mosley&quot; helps us  understand by telling the story of an upper class English couple who were  seduced by Hitler's charm.  It's too easy to dismiss potential fuhrers and  duces and their followers as marginal, uninvolved, and uninteresting  people.  We need to be reminded, as &quot;Diana Mosley&quot; does, that  anyone from anywhere can be entranced by evil.	2000-07-31
US	53031416	R2VPGPH83SGT5X	0465024629	796299075	The Flight Of The Romanovs: A Family Saga	Books	5	10	13	N	Y	A tale of loss with courage and dignity	Most books about the Romanovs are actually about the last Tsar, Nicholas II, and his immediate family.  While compelling, Nicholas and Alexandra's tale leaves out much of the story of a once powerful Imperial Family and  its fall.  In the early twentieth century most people in Russia and Europe  probably considered the Romanovs to be spoiled dilettantes unworthy of  their high positions.  The Grand Dukes and Duchesses proved by their  courage and dignity in the face of disaster that they were indeed made of  sterner stuff.	1999-09-06
US	53031416	R2YSRX1S6FXU1U	0345405617	264906896	Walk In Hell (The Great War, Book 2)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Intriguing Alternative!	In the second volume of his alternate history of World War I Harry Turtledove continues to intrigue and delight me.  As a 15th generation Southerner and descendant of 7 Confederate soldiers, I cannot help but be  a little delighted by Turtledove's alternate world with a CSA twice  victorious over the USA.  But reading these books has helped me to further  recognize the positive role the USA has played in the twentieth century of  our own world.  Turtledove's world is poorer and bloodier than our world.  Would I trade worlds and go to live in his?  Not a chance, but I'll  continue to enjoy reading about his.	1999-08-11
US	53031416	RVZ6WH14OM56R	034540615X	412492536	American Front (The Great War, Book 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent, but a work in progress	It becomes obvious towards the end of The Great War: American Front, that all the loose ends are not going to be tied up.  I am pleased, because it whets my appetite for the succeeding volumes in this alternate history.  Turtledove is not creating a utopia here, this world in which the South defeated the North in the 1860s and again in the 1880s is a much poorer and more dangerous world than our own.  Nor is this a story of good vs evil.  Both sides commit brutalities as a matter of course, and there is no high flown rhetoric about saving democracy or ending war forever.  This World War I is openly about aggression and power.  I await the succeeding volumes breathlessly.	1998-06-25
US	53031416	R3T8GH1AV364P3	0684828014	270781708	The Petticoat Affair: Manners, Mutiny, and Sex in Andrew Jackson's White House	Books	4	6	8	N	Y	Fine treatment of an old scandal	This book is first a description of a political scandal in the 1820s and 1830s in which a President threw his administration into turmoil over a woman.  Secondly, there is a fine treatment of the role women were expected to play in the 1800s and the reasons Margaret Eaton and Rachel<br />Jackson did not fit in.  It's a fine well written<br /> story, very worthwhile.	1998-05-26
US	53031416	R1UMO8VS5WQ8LK	0300072120	690030447	The Last Diary of Tsaritsa Alexandra (Annals of Communism Series)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Chilling monotony	Tsaritsa Alexandra had no idea, of course, that this was her last diary or that anyone besides herself would ever read it.  Since we know the ultimate fate of this unhappy woman the banality and monotony of the last few months of her life have an unintentional sense of tragedy.  How sad, for example, that she took the time to note the birthdays of various royal connections, people she would never see again and who in some cases (such as George V of England) had abandoned her and her family to their fate.  A brief but compulsive read	1998-01-06
US	53031416	R36MHGYW0SIY8D	1559724420	246158262	The Quest for Anastasia: Solving the Mystery of the Lost Romanovs	Books	5	19	26	N	Y	An excellent summary of an amazing life	The Quest for Anastasia is a summary of the life story of Franziska Schanskowska, once thought to be Grand Duchess Anastasia Nikolaevna, youngest daughter of Tsar Nicholas II.  For more than sixty years this lady, usually known as Anna Anderson, was a center of controversy.  Thanks to DNA testing, it is now known that she was not Anastasia, but the daughter of a Polish peasant.  Although some of her followers still cannot accept this verdict, there is no reason to feel that Anna Anderson is lessened by the discovery of her true identity.  She was a consummate actress who rose from humble surroundings to be the consort of royals and near-royals on two continents.  The Quest for Anastasia makes an excellent companion for Robert K. Massie's The Romanovs: The Final Chapter and Nicholas and Alexandra.	1997-10-09
US	53031416	R1RD5Y7YRWWKYK	0312131186	606341925	The Lost Fortune of the Tsars	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A fascinating story of vanished wealth and history	So much of the fascination the Russian Tsars still hold for us today is connected with their great wealth and fabulous possessions.  William Clarke's book is a detailed examination of the sources of the property of the House of Romanov before World War I and of its disposition and possible whereabouts today.  In the process of his search Clarke also proved and disproved several theories as to the fate of the wealth,  clearing some notable persons of some unsavory accusations	1997-07-03
US	53031416	R4J8MJ1ZFEHGR	1852308702	544319524	Bloodline of the Holy Grail: The Hidden Lineage of Jesus Revealed	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Amazing, intriguing, and dazzling!	Bloodline of the Holy Grail is amazing, intriguing, and dazzling.  You need not agree with the main theses of the book to be fascinated by its sweeping reappraisal of European and world religious and political history. Often infuriating, always thought provoking, and plausible enough to demand further reading and research.  David Cofiel	1997-01-20
