US	53044971	R6G9J75YZGYAE	0967271088	916393403	10 Downing Street (Gamekeeper Series, Book 3) (Gamekeeper Trilogy)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A superb third book in a superior series.	I had worried that by book three the brilliant Dave Putnam would have run out of steam in his Gamekeeper Series.  I needn't have feared as 10 Downing Street continues with the English Commonwealth controlling most of the Earth and a communist conspiracy existing which builds toward  a massive World War II.  It is more than just capitalism against communism and Putnam reveals he can just as handily explore different economic systems as he has done so beautifully in dealing with politics, war, working with animals, and especially religion.  The alternate world series continues with the addition of new characters and making excellent use of old ones from the first two books.  Winston Churchill again reigns supreme, at least for a while as this book covers a great number of years.  More time is spent with the most  interesting Albert Einstein.  You find Dwight D. Eisenhower, Rommel, and George Patton as well.  Historical figures are dealt with in a way that will convince the reader that the author knows his history. The fictional ones are as real and alive as any you'll find in the very best of novels. He also doesn't make the mistake of bringing in characters that could not have been born after history took a major twist in the 1890's.  The work is brilliant, there are twists and surprises and even the sometimes too long technical descriptions are interesting.  The author also knows how to tell decent love stories and to treat women as human beings.  Toward the end there is a touch of Asimov and Clement, however I don't want to be a spoiler. What I like best is that unlike Turtledove and some other science fiction authors, Putnam isn't afraid to make religion and the fact that God exists as a vital part of his universe as it is in our real universe.  As a Christian I did not agree with all the views expressed, but I was not offended as the three books have the feel of being written with love.   The best  news is that a 4th book follows and I will order it just as soonas I post this review.  Dave Putnam's novels deserve to be considered classics.	2005-10-13
US	53044971	R3LQA92V4FVMMK	1576834999	367940509	City of Dreams (!Hero Series, Book 1)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Excellent alternate history that tells THE  Christian story.	Stephen Lawhead hasn't really explored alternate history, at least not to this extent, and he has picked the greatest story ever told.   The story of our lifetime. It is the one our salvation hinges on, the life and death and resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ.  Other writers have tried to tell the story in modern terms, even having Christ alive today.  Lawhead knows his scriptures and if one reads the novel without having a bible at hand they are making a mistake.  I suspect some readers will think this is just another adventure/spy/mystery created to make Jesus (Joshua in this case) alive in the present time.  Read the four Gospels.  They are full of adventure, there are spies and secret police, calculating business and religious leaders, oppressive big governments, and there are mysteries.  The old characters we read about as children are alive again in New York City including Joshua, Washer John, Maggie, Simon, Mary, Pilate, and others you will recognize. Told through the eyes of Hunter, an agent for Icon you have a first class tale and I await the next two with great enthusiasm.  Then perhaps I may read the graphic novels, but for now I want to enjoy in my mind the images that Lawhead and son (I think Ross is his son)  have planted of our Lord as they might happen today.  I would recommend this book and the next two to non Christians.  Lawhead's excellent Arthurian books and his fantasies have already led, I am sure, readers to Christ.  May God bless this man and his co-author always.	2005-10-02
US	53044971	R18JS464TRJQHF	0967271061	498740535	The World War (Gamekeeper Series, Book 2)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A True Giant Among Alternate History Authors	To show how much I loved The World War by Dave Putnam, I was not bored as I usually am with long descriptions of military tactics and weaponry.  I also hate spiders with a passion, yes I have a phobia and the spider on the cover of the book cover was turned face down when I wasn't reading it.  Having said that, it is a great work of alternate history and continues the Gamekeeper Trilogy.  Favorite characters like Fred Greystone, David Banner, and others return plus some interesting new ones.  The greatest treat for me was the continuing saga of a man I consider the most outstanding leader in the 20th century, Winston Churchill.  There are also nice segments on the aging Queen Victoria and many others.  The World War begun in the first book is covered in detail, a combination of our two World Wars.  There is a creation of a real life and death war game that is supposed to help the human race become less blood thirsty over all and to develop new technology well ahead of its time.  Animals again play a major part in this second book. The  book, like the first one, is not afraid to make religion and belief in God the focal point.  The book  plants the seeds for the third book in the series that sees the world faced with the greatest Godless threat of all time, communism. There is also a bow to how leftist Hollywood film companies try to influence elections.   I only read other reviews after I have written mine so that I will not be influenced.  I was concerned with some snobbery from a reviewer on the first book about the publisher \\"Bulldog Press\\".  I will honestly say that threw me a bit myself until I remembered that thanks to the net and other factors, small publishers can now slug it out with the big ones.  No longer does an author have to be concerned whether he or she will be loved by the New York Times.  Thanks to Amazon, our own reviews carry at least as much weight (I'd like to think more) than reviews in the so called big press, \\"the old media\\".  And David Putnam carries a lot of weight gaining equality with Eric Flint and again surpassing Harry Turtledove.  As I said in my review of the first book, I wish that this series had been available when I was teaching full time, but after 40 years I am retired.  I did use alternate history and government books in my classes and have even had some published myself.	2005-09-20
US	53044971	R27IR4K1WY8HFW	0345457242	772147660	Drive to the East (Settling Accounts Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	1	9	42	N	N	Turtledove continues to show his bigotry.	I know I will have to get the next book in the series, it is like watching a train wreck, and then NO more.  I wonder if Harry Turtledove ever reads his reviews or just believes that his reading public is as lazy as he has become.  Readers are treated as though we are stupid.  As a historian myself I find him insulting.  If he is going to insist,  despite scientific fact, that the people who lived during World War II would still exist, then get them right.  As a Chuchillian buff I am glad he didn't deal much with Winston as what little he did was way off the mark. FDR and Bob Taft, who I once met, definitely were off.  The whole book, as some reviewers have noted, is a rehash of World War II.  No problem with that though there seems to be very little serious study of the rest of the world outside of the United States and Confederate States.  He considers his readers as dense because page after page he has to repeat things ad nauseum that we have read before.  If it is so important to do this, then use the example of the old movie serials and put a synopsis of previous novels at the start of each new novel that readers will be free to skip.  There are dialogue problems galore as in patterns of speech that different characters use in different settings. North or South.  East or West.  \\"You can say that again. And maybe you will.  But, I wished you hadn't.\\"  That isn't a quote, it is just typical.  I feel like half the characters are Forrest Gump.  Awk!!!  Some of the settings are pretty accurate, my first ten years of life were spent in the Cleveland and Salem, Ohio areas.  I will credit him for that and forgive him for messing up on the Roanoke Valley where I now live.  Now to the bigotry.  All but ten years of my life have been spent in the South.  Southerners must really be hated by Turtledove as you can count on one hand how many sympathetic ones you can find.  Two at last count, both African Americans.  Yes, there has been prejudice in the South, still is like there is in Turtledove's LA, but I know Southern history and no Featherstone would have lasted this long without being killed as was Huey Long, forced to become more moderate as was George Wallace, been voted out of power as was the Byrd Machine, and frankly discredited as so many of the old Oligarchs have been in the South.  There were numerous Southerners who helped African Americans in our history  or there never would have been a successful Underground Railroad.  <br />I am a White who took part with other Southern Whites in Civil Rights marches in the sixties.  Turtledove does not know the South at all.  Very sad and very sloppy on his part.  He also is very anti Christianity.  How you can have all this history happening without showing the influence of various Christian denominations and Christian leaders tells us something about how the author thinks.  Even Nazi Germany had great Christian leaders who were put in camps, killed, and persecuted.  I know a lot of German Americans who were influenced in those days to help Jews and have read about others like Schindler's List.  Is the author trying to make the South look worse than Nazi Germany or the Communist Soviet Union?  Most comments about God and about religion are derogitory.  There are many great alternate history writers now who may or may not be Christian or have any faith, but they know how to be honest in their writing.  They are willing to reflect society as it is or could be and the influence of Jesus Christ.  If Mr. Turtledove does not have room for Jesus  Christ, then to quote a Southern African American leader, Tyler Perry, then I don't have room for Harry Turtledove.  I will pray for him.  That is something he likely will snort at and even deride.  Nonethless, he will be in my prayers.	2005-08-31
US	53044971	R260W7WBLXHZ31	1563896737	107067162	Spirit, The - Archives, Volume 1: June 2 - December 29, 1940 (Spirit Archives)	Books	5	18	20	N	N	There are two Spirits just as there are two, really more, James Bonds.	I had read the Spirit in the late forties when it origianlly came out.  Recently I have had the pleasure of buying from Amazon and reading Volumes 12-16.  These are supposed to represent the best work of Will Eisner.  However, to talk about the later books and contrast them with those by Eisner before he went into the army is unfair.  I have just read the first two volumes and liked them much better than some of the other reviewers.  The original Spirt seems more edgy, more dangerous like The Batman.  Those after the war are a bit light hearted.  I like them all and want to make an observation.  I am a James Bond fan, especially of the first two Bond stars.  Sean Connery's original Bond is the most edgy, hardest to predict, and despite the one liners he has a mission you would be afraid to cross.  Roger Moore's Bond is more like the Spirit after the war years.  More light hearted, even a little campy at times.  There is enough enjoyment in the character of The Spirit that I will likely try some of the archives during the war years as done by other artists and writers.  After all, Superman and Batman have had many different writers and artists, most very very good.  So this is something I need to judge for myself.	2005-08-21
US	53044971	RZQXHM6LN8PYW	0967271045	807383371	The Gamekeeper's Night Dog (Gamekeeper Series, Book 1)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	I can't wait to read the next two books in the series.	This was a sleeper as I only picked up the book because of my love of history, love of England, and love of alternate history in fiction.  I was also ignorant of the influence of war dogs in English history and equally so of the Boer Wars. This meant having to check facts on the net to be sure Dave Putnam wasn't putting me on.  He was a bit, but it is still one of the best alternate histories I have read to date and I have been reading them for 55 years and using them in my classrooms as a teacher.  I particularly like the spiritual aspects, the references to the Christian religion in a positive way, something too many authors of science fiction seem to avoid.  The novel is informative and interesting and the characters, both real and fictional, are well done.  Great characterizations of Victoria, Cecil Rhodes, Winston Churchill as a very young man, Sir Arthur Canon Doyle, and many others.  If the next two are as good I will never be content with Harry Turtledove again, not that he hasn't already slipped in my estimation.  Thank you Mr. Putnam for your vision and your ability to share it with your readers.	2005-08-20
US	53044971	R20U09C6S1HCIA	1554102197	328326834	Rebel Nation	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Five Stars for a rising star in Alternate History.	Just when I thought the theme of the South winning the Civil War had been done to death this author proves me wrong.  Christopher Stires, in Rebel Nation, presents a divided America as we enter the 21st century.  With flashbacks galore he traces an interesting history of a Federal United States and a Confederate United States after the Civil War.  Sure he makes the mistakes made by Harry Turtledove in having people alive up through World War 2 who would not have been with such a change in our history.  However, the author traces history in such a way that you believe him.  For example he makes it logical that after Pearl Harbor the two nations fought side by side to defeat the Japanese and Nazis.  Still they are very separate nations and though slavery is abolished in the South, there is an internal Civil War  for Civil Rights brewing.  What puts the author above Harry Turtledove and many other alternate history authors is the way he defines his characters, he makes you care about them.  Unlike Turtledobe, he isn't afraid to have some decent White people in the South who care about Civil Rights.  Both American nations do seem to have a preponderance of spies and assassions.  Cullen Davis is the lead character, however there are so many more of interest.  Two very strong women dominate the story.  First is reporter McKenna Alexander who is from the North, but who loves the South. A great heroine.  Even more interesting is a woman who has to be the most evil and compelling to appear in print.  It is the matriarch, Victoria Talbridge who is a master manipulator with her fingers in every plot in both countries.  Like a mafia queen she fights to make her family supreme and beside her, J.R. Ewing and Tony Soprano are babes in arms.  I plan to read this again, soon.  It is great.  A real page turner.	2005-07-28
US	53044971	R1J7TXXR4VF42O	0944019072	503382455	Don't Look Up: The Real Story Behind the Virginia UFO Sightings	Books	5	2	2	N	N	You can take Paul Dellinger's word to the bank.	This is not a work of fiction, though Paul Dellinger has had fiction published in various magazines.  Paul is a hard nosed newspaper reporter for the Roanoke Times, in Virginia, and has been a nominee for a Pulitzer Prize.  He is not one who can be easily fooled and he is a keen observer of facts.  This is one book on UFOs that I find both more convincing and more compelling than most in this genre'.	2005-07-28
US	53044971	R3VRCH8OTXUUKF	1401204066	452111678	The Spirit Archives, Volume 16	Books	5	10	11	N	N	The Spirit deseerves to be made into a movie.	I have just finished reading Volumes 15 and 16 and will buy more when I can afford them.  I do know that his best period was said to be the two or three years after World War II and that is what I am concentrating on now.  The books read like a film noir movie with a touch of William Powell, Robert Mitchum, Batman, and the Bowery Boys.  The stories are still fresh today and the art is excellent.  You can see the influence Eisner had on MAD, DC and Marvel.  Unfortunately The Spirit was not available by the time I was teaching as I would, have used the series, as I did various other comics, in the classroom.  The Spirit is sort of The Lone Ranger, though why the mask was needed no one knows despite the explanation that the first publisher wanted it.  Only the inspector and his lovely daughter, clearly modeled after Betty Grable, and Ebony know who he is for sure.  Some may think that a black kid as a side kick named Ebony is racist, but for the 1940's this was pretty advanced.  Ebony himself deserved a comic strip and he is a true right hand man for The Spirit.  They've made movies of The Saint (plus TV series), radio's The Shadow, and all kinds of comic heroes.  The Spirit would seem the most logical one to be made into a film as it already has everything there.	2005-07-23
US	53044971	RFVIAYXO96QJ	0786715480	938639083	The Italian Secretary: A Further Adventure of Sherlock Holmes	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Whew!  A relief.	I have had  the pleasure of reading three books on Sherlock Holmes in a row this past month.  No mere feat for an old guy who has read Holmes stories, either direct from Doyle or others, for 60 years since age ten.  I have even used them in the classroom. The first recently read was Locked Rooms by  Laurie King that was a pure delight and possibly responsible for my being so bored and exasperated with Mitch Cullen's A Slight Trick Of The Mind, and now joyfully Caleb Carr's The Italian Secretary.  Carr's book is far from the greatest Holmes novel I have ever read, but a real relief after slogging through the Cullen book. That's probably why I gave it five instead of four stars.  After Cullen I began to fear I was just getting worn out from too much Holmes. The Italian Secreatry is delightful as one reviewer said and fast moving.  I won't be a spoiler, but I do recommend it as a good read while waiting for another Laurie King classic or any other author who really knows the subject.	2005-07-18
US	53044971	RIGID9YKN1S1	055380197X	946248869	Locked Rooms (Mary Russell Novels)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The number one author of Sherlock Holmes tales.	My title may be criticized rightly because I am not a real Sherlockian and I am not a member of any of th related fan clubs.  However I have read everything I could my hand on relating to Sherlock Holmes since my dad first put his collection in my hands 60 years ago when I was aged ten. I used some of the stories in my classes as a way to encourage critical reading.  I read the Doyle books over and over and in recent years have added three long shelves of books by others with their versions of what Holmes would do in certain cases at certain times.  Many are very bad, some are very good, however the series by Laurie R. King is the best.  I find each more interesting than the last and this one with a Dash of Hammett (excuse the pun) was especially good.  Though the series is really more about an extraordinary young woman, Mary Russell, Sherlock Holmes is still the dominate figure.  Other authors have tried to have stories where Holmes is involved with various women, even getting married, and have had limited success.  Ms. King pulls it off. I was sad when I reached the conclusion.  Now to wait for the next one. sigh!  <br /> <br />	2005-07-16
US	53044971	R1MZ0SF3T4CLYG	1595230068	626637009	The Truth About Hillary: What She Knew, When She Knew It, and How Far She'll Go to Become President	Books	5	32	49	N	N	An Excellent and Truthful Analysis of Hilla the Hun	After reading some of the negative reviews written I felt like I might be in a minority.  However, despite the author being boycotted by the so called national media, the book is number 2 on the best seller list.  I intend to help with that by buying copies to send to friends and relatives.  I had enjoyed the analyses of Hillary Clinton as written by Peggy Noonan and Dick Morris, however this one is more inciteful and detailed.  Much of the information is not new, however this book fleshes out the scandals and crimes committed by this woman and gives us some new information.  No reason to doubt this Liberal, and New York Times and Newsweek author.  He has no agenda and I believe that he did this with integrity and honesty.  You will find Hillary as scary as Osama, both wanting to control, not help American society.  Thank you Mr. Klein and be assured, this book will also be in school libraries if I have my way.	2005-07-14
US	53044971	R275FWPY2WZOD3	B0007EAM5M	366783174	You can change the world!: The Christopher approach (Signet books)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	This book changed my life.	I read this book in high school in the early 1950's.  It gave me the motivation to go into teaching and to have a successful career spanning 48 years.  I have just retired and was pleased to find I could again get this book as my original copy was loaned out many many years ago.  A great companion book by Father Keller (that this Southern Baptist proudly quotes from) is Government Is Your Business.  For three decades I was very invloved in Republican politics because of this second book.  I used both to encourage my students.	2005-07-08
US	53044971	R395O12GWYXO9B	B0007DOP74	604468518	Government is your business	Books	5	1	1	N	N	I am reordering this book after reading it 55 years ago.	I want this book back in my library.  It and Father Keller's first book, You Can Change The World had a great influence in my life.  One caused me to become a teacher for 48 years, the other got me into politics for 30 years.    Thanks to Amazon.Com I can get them back in my library to inspire my grand kids.    <br />	2005-07-08
US	53044971	R2JGYC9IEHOJ5I	0312342985	376889311	Never Call Retreat: Lee and Grant: The Final Victory	Books	4	3	9	N	N	Robert E. Lee, Saint or Sinner?	I feel a bit guilty not being able to give this a full five star rating and it is not the fault of the authors.  I suspect that the Civil War has been the number one target for alternate world historians.  I have been reading such tales for well over 50 years dating from when I first read the very excellent Bring The Jubilee.  I have studied, taught, and written histroy for an equal number of years and have used alternate history as a teaching technique.  So it is likely that I have become jaded and my expectations are too high.  I felt the first book in this series, Gettysburg was the best of the three and by the time I got to the third book it was too easy to predict the ending.  I have never thought that the outcome of Gettysburg either way would have decided the war as the South had too much going against it in too many categories.  Never Call Retreat was almost boring as the reader grinds his way to an obvious ending.  I won't take away from the fact that the ending was idealistic in that had things happened this way, we would have been better off today.  We may not have had the bitter divisions in the nation that we have today in regard to regionalism and racisim had the war ended the way Newt Gingrich and William Forstchen see it.There are several well defined characters and here too the authors point out some things of great interest.  U. S. Grant comes out as more human, something honest historians have long known, and one can't but help feel sorry for him.  Perhaps even more so than President Lincoln who is also written about with great sympathy.  It is Robert E. Lee who held my interest.  As a Virginian I will perhaps be seen as a traitor to the memory of this great man in what I am about to say.  No one can doubt that he was a gentleman on a personal level, hated slavery, and was deeply Christian, at least in his own mind.  My problem has always been that Robert E. Lee missed more than one chance at true greatness.  Beginning with his declining to lead Union forces, something the under rated General Winfield Scott did not do.  Scott was a hero we hear too little about.  Lee knew even before Gettysburg that \\"the cause\\" was lost.  After Gettysburg he had a duty to the state he loved and the culture he emulated.  He was the one Southerner who could have forced the South, or at least most of the South, to sign an armistice and to stop the fighting.  Yes, he was a great man and was a true healer after the war.  However, how much greater a man would he have been had he ended his part in the war and saved the lives of nearly 300,000 more young men who died after Gettysburg.  The authors do deal with this concern in the heart and mind of Robert E. Lee, the first time that has been dealt with.  He was seen as the patron fighting saint of the South and how much better it would have been if he had become the peace making saint of the South.	2005-07-06
US	53044971	R30P97STCLCGS7	0345465679	526267444	The Rivers of War (The Trail of Glory)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Long live the new king of Alternate History novels.	I was already a fan of Eric Flint because of his 1634 series.  I was surprised when he turned his attention to one of the least covered wars in fiction writing. I am very pleased that he did.  As a former history teacher I have wanted to see more done in this regard and Flint has proven that he has mastered this epic period in American history.  He has brought to life real characters and given them a more broad based background in this \\"what if\\" novel.  Of course the book is not just about the War of 1812, for as he says, it is an alternate history of the American Frontier.  As one reviewer has pointed out, he explores both sides of the issues of the day and helps you see things in contxt far more so than what Harry Turtledove has been doing in recent years.  Eric Flint writes in a riveting way that entertains and educates at the same time. He also knows how to write a love story and this is the first alternate history novel that my wife has so thoroughly enjoyed.  This is probably because Flint seems to understand women and how they think.   He writes without prejudices or with any desire to indoctrinate.   We need this now more than ever.  Eric Flint has become the king of alternate history writing.	2005-06-20
US	53044971	R3OWXSGOT3T84V	0425184501	116698346	A Damned Fine War	Books	5	14	20	N	N	Bill Yenne knows his history.	As a history teacher myself, who has written alternate history from time to time, I applaud this excellent book.  I suspect the detractors, who base most of their complaints on weaponry, have a different agenda.  Only a few war buffs read alternate history to see if everything technology wise is completely accurate.  What is more important is the social/political effects of certain actions, cause and effect.  Yenne has surpassed the great Harry Turtledove whose last few books have been bombs and he comes close to the rising star of Eric Flint. <br /> <br />Now let's look at that different agenda.  Thre is no doubt that we messed up at Yalta.  President Roosevelt was a great man, but a very sick man and Winston Churchill was unable to do anything when FDR united with Joe Stalin.  We gave away the farm and \\"Uncle Joe\\" definitely wanted to revive the policy of first European, than world domination.  We sold the Polish out and I have Polish friends who visit over there now and report that bitterness still exists over our sell out. President George W. Bush got in trouble with some in the press when he repeated that truth recently.  Every bit of this book traces with accuracy what could have happened and almost did happen. <br /> <br />Would General George S. Patton have been the answer?  We don't know, but General Dwight Eisenhower, as much I loved him, probably would not have been nor anyone else.  It would have taken a Patton to prevent what nearly happened and we would have been better off today. <br /> <br />Think about it. There would have been no Iron Curtain.  The U.S.S.R. would not have captured the one million Japanese in Manchuria and turned their weapons over to Communist leader Mao Tse Tung.  China might have survived Communist domination.  At the least there would have been no Korean War, no war in Vietnam and no Castro running Cuba.  With China there may or may not have been a Cold War or an Arms Race.  China would have no U.S.S.R. to get atomic secrets from.  Our political landscape would have changed too as Eisenhower would not have been president and likely not Richard Nixon. Who knows what that would have meant for the Kennedys and others. Likely they too would no longer be factors.  <br /> <br />Would President Harry Truman's re-election in 1952 (he'd have no reason not to run) mean a continuation of New Deal and Fair Deal policies?  What changes would come about in the Republican and Democratic party since Communism would no longer be the big issue?  Russia, what is left of it,  certainly could not have supported radical Islamic forces.  It is possible a War on Terror would also not be in the cards for the United States.  China and Russia would have little or no influence in Africa so what sort of political situation would we have there?  Mr. Yenne, we might need a followup novel. <br /> <br />This is one book I strongly recommend for any intelligent conversation about world politics. <br /> <br />	2005-05-18
US	53044971	R3JPAQFQ2ZICX5	0066214130	57180289	State of Fear	Books	5	11	20	N	N	Only the media brain washed would not like this book.	What I like about Michael Crichton is that when he gets down to dealing with a controversial subject he makes it a point to research, footnote to share his research, and give a bibliography so that the reader may study on his own and make up his mind.  That is what set Rising Sun and Disclosure apart from so many other books on the market.  In State of Fear, Crichton has given us both a page turning thriller and an education.  He exposes the radical environmental extremists, the self serving scam artists out to make a buck, the laughable but also frightening media types who want to be seen as leaders of the liberal establishment, and bumbling bureaucrats who have put the world into a real \\"state of fear\\" over global warming and the end of the world.  This doesn't mean that Crichton makes light of the idealists who feel they have something to be concerned about without being the tree huggers parodied by conservatives.  The book does point up a need  for real science not the fake fuzzy logic we see in the newspapers most every day and watch  on televison most every night.  For those who might dismiss the facts in this book the reader would do well to research the materials, and charts, and graphs that are providied.  In any other book this might sound like a bore, however the author knows how to craft a rip roaring adventure story that is gripping and to use a cliche, hard to put down.  While the author's books have all made excellent motion pictures, this one may have a problem in Hollywood.  The elite liberal establishment may not want to make this a film, as it deserves, not unless they decide to water it down and kill the real essence of what the author is saying.  I for one will do all I can to urge this being made a film and will do all I can in my own humble way to protest if Hollywood doesn't get it right.  Thank you Michael Crichton for not being afraid to research the truth and then to spread the word.	2005-02-18
US	53044971	R1WMC4E541WHNP	034545846X	464615514	Homeward Bound	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Better than he's been for a long time, but still not great.	Once more into the breach, trying to avoid the slavish Turtledove worshipping reviews and to be honest.  As a historian and one who uses alternate history as a teaching tool I have read all of Harry Turtledove's books. I go back to his Byzantium series when Isaac Asimov introduced him and I consider Guns of the South his greatest work.   <br /> <br />I loved the first four World War series in which we were first invaded by The Race.  The next series, at least the first three, were not up to that standard, but still good. Then we started getting books that read like they were assigned to students to get grades in which Turtledove was copied.  Formula writing to say the least.  Except for an excellent team up with Judith Tarr, he has not lived up to his earlier standards. <br /> <br />A case in point is the awful Great War/American Empire series which started with a bang and have become a whimper.  Not only did he fill the books with repetition, but he revealed some real biased attitudes.  Bias against the South, religion, and Hispanics.  His new series Days of Infamy has begun sadly going down the same path.  Even the Lizards are shown more understanding than the Japanese. <br /> <br />And now we have what is either the last of the Colonization series or the start of a new one.  It is better work than he has done for a long time, however it has many of the same boring attributes as found in the Great War/American Empire books.  The reader's intelligence is insulted by repetition of ideas and commentary.  As one reviewer has already written, the middle chunk of this 600 page outing could be eliminated and not make a difference.  Turtledove does more of an Asimov in this book as it is talk, talk, talk, without the style. <br /> <br />Having said this. it is at least nice to have this series wrapped up.  At least we can hope so.  Harry Turtledove needs to take off a couple years.  He shouldn't need the money.  What he does need is a break, a period of introspection about his work and his writing style.  This doesn't mean I'll stop reading him as some have threatened in their reviews.  You can always hope for Harry to regain his style and maybe a dash more faith in his God given abilities.	2005-01-24
US	53044971	RDIUZTXFEBLC3	1418430072	192068935	Sherlock Holmes and The Search for Excalibur	Books	3	12	12	N	N	A page turner, but not Sherlock or Watson.	I enjoyed this book as a fast paced adventure and only wish other names had been used rather than the very famous Sherlock Holmes and John Watson.  I would recommend the book, but warn the reader, if a real Sherlockian, you may not recognize our beloved detective and sidkick. <br /> <br />This is the third in the series and I have to read the first two to solve a mystery.  Usually when you have a valuable stolen item involved by a mystery author, he won't use it again in a case.  I cannot for the life of me see the benefit of having the famous sword of Arthur, Excaliber, be the source of a hunt twice in a row by the same author.  It may not be fair to say this until I can find the first two. <br /> <br />My problem with Sherlock Holmes is that his treatment as a chracter is well below par.  Many many authors have recreated that super genius of a detective and some are more careful than others to faithfully follow Doyle's depictions.  I refer to depictions about how he talks, acts, and reacts to others.  It is not the first time that Holmes has been given a love interest, however others, especially Laurie King, have done a much better job.  Holmes here is always between serious and simpering.  Watson has to explain over and over how unusual it is for Holmes to react to an intelligent woman who is his equal.  Has the author not heard of Irene Adler? There is almost a wink wink, nudge nudge relationship between Holmes and Watson when it comes to women.  Monty Python does not belong in a story we are expected to take seriously. <br /> <br />The author must have been afraid that there weren't enough interesting characters so we have Buffalo Bill Cody, Annie Oakley, and Frank Butler as helping sidekicks.  There is even a chase through London that reminds one of car chases put in a movie when there isn't enough plot to fill the time. And of course Moriarity has to be brought back to life.  Lastly, let's not forget the Werewolf of London.  I'm afraid to mention more as I don't want to be a spoiler. <br /> <br />It is very fun light reading, but very poor when it comes to touching the flavor of the times when Sherlock Holmes would announce \\"The games afoot\\".  I gave it three stars as an average.  It deserve five for fun and one for missing the mark with the character of Sherlock Holmes. <br /> <br />	2004-12-28
US	53044971	R1JV7C91F2NCV8	0451213076	165093773	Days of Infamy: A Novel of Alternate History	Books	1	9	37	N	N	This man is in a slump.	I had high hopes for this book.  I did find it a page turner and it had some good moments.  Other than that it suffered from some of the same weaknesses shown in his two about a divided North and South in the 20th Century. <br /> <br />As usual there is the bigotry of discounting the importance of religious faith and a hint, thank goodness only a hint this time, of Turtledove's appaent hatred of any thing Southern. As a history teacher myself, and sometime writer, I find this a discredit to the field of writing history, whether factual, fictional, or fantasy.  Harry Turtledove does not do his homework as credited by some who have reviewed this book so far. <br /> <br />First let us get to the writing.  I am starting to think this author has written too much, he has gotten burned out.  Yes, as a fan who grabbed everything up he has ever written I suspect I am responsible for a part of that.  When I find some of the same phrases used by different characters from book to book I have to wonder if he hasn't gotten his plots garbled together. <br /> <br />My greatest concern is personal. I grant that my Japanese American friends would say he has it right about how American born Japanese might feel. But they would also agree that he does not have an understanding of born Japanese, then and now.  My son was over there for a while and I learned more from him than Tutledove.  No one can disagree that the Japanese during World War Two were brutal sadistic killers who hid behind honor to justify their approach to warfare.  My oldest brother was all through the Pacific in World War Two as a decorated marine until he was captured and nearly tortured to death.  In fact I felt great rage as I read this book and all those old feelings of \\"hating the Japs\\" etc. came back. However, Turtledove misses out on a lot of the Japanese philosophy and since when did Japanese soldiers sound like G.I. Joe in the way they talked to each other.  There is no decent translation to justify the Turtledove handling Japanese conversation. <br /> <br />Actually, if you want to read a collection of short stories that are far superior when it comes to alternate Pearl Harbors, I suggest \\"A Date That Will Live In Infamy\\".  There are also a couple excellent essays with the best being William R. Forstchen's \\"The Realities of an Alternate Pearl Harbor\\".  The very theme Turtledove used in his book is examined and magnificently reveals where a once favorite author went wrong. <br /> <br />There is a plus side.  The book does remind us of the threat we live under from Moslem Terrorists whose morality and standards are much lower than the Japanese.  It makes one even gladder that President George W. Bush was re-elected.  Hmmmm.  Maybe  <br />Harry is a secret Republican working under cover for the GOP.  If so, then all is forgiven. <br />	2004-11-20
US	53044971	R186380HIDAKYF	0345457234	912625496	Return Engagement (Settling Accounts Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	1	13	17	N	N	There he goes again.	Up until five years ago Harry Turtledove was my favorite writer. Here was a fellow historian and teacher,  who could put poetry in his work. I love alternate history, used it over 40 years ago in the classroom, and have even written it. It can teach the real story in history. Harry Turtledove has forgotten that. With this series, which began with the South winning the Civil War (never fully explained), he has gone down hill.  It is time to let this series go.  Other writers like Eric Flint are leaving him in their dust.  Why am I so hard on him.  Because Turtledove has let his political opinions and regional prejudices destroy his objectivity. <br /> <br />Nevermind the obvious that others have pointed out.  The obvious being that had the Civil War been won by the South, not a single person alive today would be in that world.  Just one little change, \\"the butterfly effect\\", can determine when one may marry, who they may merry, and when they even conceive.  In this alternate world there would be no Winston Churchill, no Franklin D. Roosevelt, no Ernest Hemingway, no Louie Armstrong, and none of the others named.  I say nevermind, as it is fun and other writers have fallen in the same trap.  Some like Keith Laumer knew better and just had fun doing it.  Turtledove is perfectly serious, or at least he appears to be. <br /> <br />It is the prejudices that concern me.  First, against the South. I am originally from Ohio, but have lived in the South for 58 of my 68 years.  I find it hard to believe that Turtledove can only find two decent people in the South to write about, two African Americans.  The Hispanic character may be sympathetic, but still very racist.  I was born in the North, however the last 58 of my 68 years have been spent in the South and I think I know the region far better than Turtledove.  Before the Civil War the Underground Railroad would have failed were there not some White Southerners helping. When Virginia, as an example, voted to leave the Unionit was a close vote.  After the Civil War there were White Southerners who opposed the Jim Crow laws.  As a young man I was in the Civil Rights Movement and I worked with many born Southern white men and women who supported that movement.  Mr. Turtledove is obviously trying to relate the killing of Black Americans in camps with what happened to the Jews in Nazi Germany.  However, there are stories of German citizens who resisted this and who helped the Jews.  In other words, Turtledove paints a South that is not just as bad, but worse than Nazi Germany. <br /> <br />The second prejudice he reveals is against religion.  It is strange that with all the facets of society covered that he leaves out religion.  The only two people he writes about with a religious connection is a Socialist congresswoman in the North and an advisor to Jake Featherstone, both Jewish, but obviously not believers.  Where are the Christian leaders?  You cannot write about history without covering that too, something Eric Flint does a beautiful job of.  Maybe Turtledove is afraid that if he covered Southern Christians he might find some willing to help Black Americans.  In the North, tradition alone requires that this area be covered.  I am sure Turtledove would be negative in dealing with religious leaders, but if honest he would have to show the positive ones too. The role of religion and faith in God cannot be ignored in writing history whether in alternate or real time <br /> <br />I suspect Harry Turtledove is tired of this series himself.  This latest entry in the series is repetitive.  His switching from character to character causes him to repeat, even in the same book, information he has given about the same chracter earlier.  Readers are treated as though they are too stupid to remember what they have just read.  If he is so concerned then maybe there should be a section in the front of each book that lists and describes his characters.  He did that in an earlier and much better written series.  <br /> <br />Harry Turtledove is very talented and even while on this series has been writing other books.  I will continue reading his work, even this series.  I just pray that Harry doesn't figure that he can take me for granted and do whatever he pleases when it comes to plotting.  A point may come when readers will also grow tired and will quit buying his books.	2004-09-14
US	53044971	R1DNJ6KNBNH1L6	0743435281	9599568	Alternate Generals II	Books	5	2	7	N	N	I give this a top review based on 1 story,Southern Strategy	There are a number of good stories here, however it is worth the money just for Southern Strategy.  The brilliance of Richard Nixon is truly revealed and how the nation is saved from foreign domination and occupation.  Of course Tricky Dick has the help of two other truly great American, Dutch Reagan and Elvis.  Would love to see sequels like Nixon as president a full eight years, Reagan president for eight more years, and a constitutional change letting Elvis serve twelve to sixteen years.  Wow, what a wonderful and beautiful vision!  Lefties out there won't like the story or my review.  Too bad.	2002-12-19
US	53044971	R5TBGC2ZBW280	0451207173	504828940	Ruled Britannia	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Heeesssss Baccckkkkkkk!	Thank Heavens.  Harry Turtledove has gotten away from his slump of two very bad novels, Marching Through Peachtree (I may read the sequel when I need a nap) and American Empire: The Center Cannot Hold (That sequel can wait until I have an operation and need to be put under).  It goes to prove you can milk an idea and chracters to death.  At last the authoir has switched to a new topic, another one I am familiar with due to my familiarity with Shakespeare, Madrid, and London.  It is a brilliant alternate history in which the Spanish Armada wins in 1588 and occupies England, primarily London.  Thankfully The Immortal Bard with a host of supporting chracters are on hand.  Equally brilliant is how Turtledove has all conversations and private thoughts put into the language of Shakespeare.  It is like reading an undiscovered play by Master Will.  Thank you Harry, and God Bless you for coming back to the style and story telling ability we were afraid you had lost.  We fellow teachers of history salute you.	2002-12-19
US	53044971	RH6K9VCLIQN2V	0785265228	307074481	The Name	Books	5	12	16	N	N	Political Correctness Could Kill Us All!	Franklin Graham has given us a great book here, a truthful one, one that every American should read whatever their faith.  If anything he was too kind.  Radical Islam is out to destroy Christianity and Judaism, make no mistake about it.  The Koran, which yes I have read, calls for the death of all Jews and unbelievers in Allah 126 times.  It is explicit, so don't believe the lies of those who say \\"well the Old Testament\\" had some harsh things.  Nothing like that.  Jihad is called for. Radical Moslems  in Pakistan (an ally) are killing Christians now.  Arab Christians suffer great persecution.  I am thankful that most Moslems are peaceful and like many Christians have not really read or followed their holy book.  Thank you Mr. Graham.  By the way, I am being anonymous for the first time as I don't want some radical targeting my loved ones, family and friends.  We are all in danger here.	2002-09-26
US	53044971	RH21AA93NYNQ2	0821757601	714711732	Merlin's Legacy, Book 4: Shadows of Camelot	Books	3	1	4	N	N	HELLLLLLPPPPPPPPP!	Warning, warning, this is a (gulp) romance novel.  I have in the past vowed never never to read a romance novel.  As a retired history teacher and an author and a student of Arthurian legend I picked up the first in the series and was hooked.  The historical context is excellent. Then by the second one I realized that the love scenes were pretty much the same thing over and over. (The cover pictures should have alerted me.)  By the third I began to skip the sex scenes and go for the story.  Hey, I'm a happily married man with children and grandchildren.  I know obviously many people go for this sort of thing as bookshelves  are full of them.  I promise I am not a snob nor am I knocking those who want this sort of thing.  But seriously Ms. Evans you have the talent to write interesting, entertaining best sellers by sticking to story development.  Our imagination can fill in the rest.  I'm of the generation when you could see two lovers, a bed, and then just a curtain blowing in the breeze with musical background and know all that was going on.  I give this book five stars for a historical novel that could have been the best and only one for the bosom heaving scenes.  That unfortunately is an average of three.  As I used to write on some student papers, \\"C,  You can do much better work than this. I have faith in you.\\"	2002-09-26
US	53044971	R2AB5VNODY0QT1	0312286619	966752336	The Irish Sports Pages: A Milan Jacovich Mystery	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Another Great Addition To The Milan Yackovich Series	I cannot say too much about an author who has become my favorite. I stopped reading mysteries many years ago and then discovered the Milan Jakovich novels (my first ten years of life were spent in Cleveland and I was curious) and the Saxon novels set it LA.  No other detective writer makes his characters as human as Les Roberts does and he is one of the few authors who causes me to go back and reread what he has written.  He is articulate, he is concise, and he knows who and what he is writing about.  This is as true of The Irish Sports Pages as of all his books.  I would encourage mystery fans to read all his books and challenge non mystery fans with the belief that one Les Roberts book will get them hooked on all that he has written.  Believe me, I went to old book stores and the net once I found I had missed the first few and the prices were well worth it.	2002-08-22
US	53044971	R1JGOGU70XAQFW	0345444213	374292569	American Empire: The Center Cannot Hold	Books	2	4	7	N	N	Perhaps Turtledove's Worse	I consider myself a mega fan of Harry Turtledove and I will continue to eagerly buy future books despite this very flawed addition to this one series.  I am also a retired history teacher and author of several books, three history textbooks in the total.  I have great respect for the author, however I have a major concern about this book in addition to my agreement with other reviewers who criticized this addition to the So Few Remain series.  Call me sensitive, however it is interesting that practically every Northern and Canadian main chraracter has something to like about them. There are only three in the South, one who is killed, one who is African American (and probably the best developed in the series), and a Mexican American.  Everyone else is either scum or supporting scum.  I was born in the North so this isn't regional pride.  However, I know the South, I have studied the South.  The great majority of Southerners I know from Virginia to Florida and West to Texas do not resemble the type of people sprinkled within this book.  Sure, George Wallace did well, however during the height of his power his state collected more welfare for African Americans than any other and he had a fair amount of Black support. (Something that bothered many White Southerners like myself who opposed him.)  Not all the South backed this man and he was ultimately rejected.  I must add that the South may have been bitter after losing the Civil War, but there was never a wide spread movement to go back to war against the North.  Not even during the Depression. <br />The biggest problem of course I tend to ignore. As much as I love alternate history it is something most authors gloss over. (I would.) If you have a world in which the South wins the Civil War it is doubtful that a single person born after that war will exist in that world that exists in our world today. Such a war with the South victorious, and its aftermath, would greatly change our environment.  We know genetically that conceiving a child either a few minutes before or after will cause an entirely different human to be born no matter the DNA and names you plan to give them.  Plus the loss of young lives in a Southern victory and a second war futher changes the gene pool available.  That's not even counting how someone, say a guy,  who might have met someone at a certain moment in real time, a girl,  won't in an alternate time.  Hence, no Ernie Hemingway, FDR, Herbert Hoover or 99.99% of the others we see sprinkled in this book.  Something similiar would also have happened in Europe with the winning by the German Empire.  Naturally we like those names emerging as it makes things interesting.  Alternate history is not easy to write and Harry can do better  than most with this exception.	2002-07-16
US	53044971	ROPEXG2SYUB6G	0595170552	9167474	The Mission	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Good reading though politically off.	The Mission is interesting though the idea of aliens trying to change our history to take us over goes back at least to the pulps of the 1930's...Keith Laumer and Poul Anderfson have done it better.  I enjoyed the twists of alternate worlds, something Laumer did so well and David Gerrold probably wrote the ultimate in this sort of thing.  However, Robert Pielke really needs more political savvy.  When creating a world, one that might even last a few chapters, you need to look beyond a narrow field.  Talking about the assasination of Vice President Richard Nixon in a world where there was no real World War Two as we knew it meant that Dwight D. Eisenhower would not have come into his own.  Meaning no Eisenhower coat tails for Nixon who was not a favorite of the California establishment. There was no way Earl Warren, Robert Taft, or Douglas MacArthur would have accepted or used Nixon as a running mate.   And there would have been no President John F. Kennedy (at least not in the early sixties) as his older brother Joe would not have died in the war and JFK would have had his dream come true.  To be a history teacher. That was the family plan.  The tribute to the influence of the Beatles was, I assume, a personal prejudice of the author to which he is entitled no matter how bizarre.   There are so many little flaws like this and the most laughable was in regard to the Native American Empire in North America  that would have kept Europeans out unless an agreement could be made.  Even the South American Native Empires couldn't pull that off and they were well ahead of what the author described up North. The native population in the Northern Continent would have had to be many times larger to have even put a dent in European expansion.  It was fun speculation to read, but there were more \\"Huh, how the devil did he get that idea?\\" moments than there were \\"Wow, what a great idea.\\"  I too am a teacher with experiences such as the author has had and feel very let down.  I will also add that the book would have been better without the last 35 pages.  At least the book could have scored as a romance. <BR>I gave him three stars for effort, a gentleman's \\"C\\".	2002-03-11
US	53044971	R6GYJT34Q560L	0670882356	985444832	When Character Was King: A Story of Ronald Reagan	Books	5	9	13	N	N	A Beautiful Book	This is a beautiful book by one of the most brilliant speech writers in America.  I have used her books in the classroom and this one is a fantastic addition.   Our beloved new president is also in the book and he is going, God willing, to make this the type of nation that Reagan knew we were capable of being.  Thank you Peggy.  Every home should have a copy of the constitution, the Declaration of Independence, the Federalist Papers, biographies of George Washington and Abraham Lincoln and this book, When Character Was King. I will read this book to my grandchildren.  It is so wonderful to be free of the evil of Bill Clinton and we need to guard that that does not happen again.  May God bless Ronald Reagan, Peggy Noonan, George Bush and America.	2002-02-23
US	53044971	R2VLIZYNTX3WPW	0753504901	966413015	The Bond Files	Books	5	0	1	N	N	An Excellent Guide	There have been many excellent guides written about the James Bond phenomena and this is one of the best.  Having used the Bond films and books in the classroom before I retired I wished I were back in action with this book.  While much of the information is known, if you have read all the books and seen all the films as I have as well as books about Bond, it is a neatly written and  a very comprehensive guide.  It compares very well with the superior James Bond Bedside Companion by Raymond Benson and The Complete James Bond Movie Encyclopedia which is probably then best book on the Bond films ever put together.  This one also covers comic strips, games, and other areas not touched outside of the James Bond Fan Club and is handy to carry.  In the spirit of the original author I enjoyed reading through it on plane flights, one of the places Ian Fleming claimed his books were intended for.	2002-02-12
US	53044971	R22LUWWNIP1RS9	1582340153	699092626	Goldfinger (Bloomsbury Movie Guides, No. 2)	Books	2	3	4	N	N	It could have been a contender!	Having used the Bond films, especially Goldfinger, in the classroom and written articles about 007 I was sadly let down by this book.  While it begins with a very clever parody of a James Bond type story and contains many interesting interviews, there are many glaring errors.  Sean Connery does not dislike having done this work, at least not as much as is implied, and some of his closest friends are associated with the Bond films he starred in.  The information on Ian Fleming relied too much on John Pearson while seeming to ignore other biographers.  There were some errors that made you suspect that the author has never seen the movies he talked about.  For example, in covering the two Flint movies Lee J. Cobb is identified as the arch villain rather than the equivalent of M to Derek Flint. (It is a shame that master novelist John Gardner, who penned many Bond books, was not consulted as I have had this wonderful opportunity and learned more from him in ten minutes than from this book.)  I have also met and talked with a couple of the stars of this film in the past so I do know something about it. New facts were brought out through the interviews so I am glad that I read the book.  I do wish that the author had a better understanding of American culture and fandom as that may have eliminated some of the elitism that this reader senses.  The book was a great idea, it will be a part of my Bond library, but not one that I will refer to very often.  I really wish that it could have been better as I consider Goldfinger one of the great films of the 20th century.	2002-02-12
US	53044971	R20KTM36G2P1C3	1581822227	261156500	A Date Which Will Live Infamy: An Anthology of Pearl Harbors Stories That Might Have Been	Books	5	21	26	N	N	A Needed Book For This Time	This is one of the very best collections of alternate world histories that I have read and one I would use in the classroom were I still teaching. However, the stories as good as they are take second place to two very thoughtful essays by experts at the end of the book.  Paul Thomsen gives an excellent diplomatic perspective of what went right and what went wrong in events leading to the attack.  The greatest praise must go to historian William Forstchen who sums up the &quot;The Realities of an Alternate Pearl Harbor&quot;.  He brings out things that most of us either did not know or did not fully understand.  It is his premise that even in the worst case scenarios all going against us, a third wave of attack destroying the oil tanks stored at Pearl which would keep us out of the Pacific for a year, the sinking of the three carriers that were away at the time of the attack which would mean no victories at Midway or the Coral Sea, the taking over of the base with veteran Japanese soldiers which would lose us Hawaii, and even the bombing of the Panama Canel which would take a year to rebuild, we would still have prevailed.  Maybe the war would have been a year or two longer, but American moral resolve and production would have won out in the end.  We were heavily devalued by most of the Japanese command and they would not foresee that in the American gestalt there is a sense of morality that makes us fight for what we see as not just territorial goals, but for freedom. In doing so we believe in complete victory.  If anything, the Japanese would have been worse off to have gone beyond their success at Pearl.  A year longer to get started would have meant more production of weapons on our part and by 1946 we would have had more than three atomic bombs.  We likely would have laid waste to Japan to pay back for the conquest of Hawaii, the bombing of Panama, and raids on California.  As it was, the Japanese were surprised at the resolve we did show. They thought we wouldbe forced to compromise and negotiate a peace.  They were as surpised as Muslim fanatics must be today in seeing our reaction to the attack on the Twin Towers in New York and the Pentagon in Washington D.C. and related actions.  We prevailed then, we will now.	2002-01-06
US	53044971	R3LEJDN9AOSY3M	0671318438	120255703	Marching Through Peachtree	Books	2	2	3	N	N	A Blonde Joke Overdone	I consider myself a big fan of Harry Turtledove's and have all of his books in my library, using some in my teaching.  The first in this series, Sentry Peak, was more humorous than serious and I did enjoy it to a point.  In a review of that book I described it as the longest blonde joke I had ever read, a good satire.  However Marching Through Peachtree belabors the point without the fun and the author even has to explain at the end how he used Sherman's march through Georgia during the Civil War to make up his alternate world plot. Really unforgivable is a slapstick scene from Gone With The Wind which in itself has been considered by some as an alternate history.  I will still buy everything Turtledove writes and hope it will have better results for me as a reader and a teacher.	2001-12-08
US	53044971	R13030C400MGO7	0310591112	460476314	Roaring Lambs: A Gentle Plan to Radically Change Your World	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Recommended for Every Christian Considering a Media Career	This very excellent book by Bob Briner has been a major influence on a number of young people both inside and outside the media. I was introduced to it by a group on the net who call themselves &quot;Roaring Lambs&quot; and the strength of their faith and religious conviction gives testimony to how powerful the book is.  I especially enjoyed the chapters on movies and television and the emphasis on the need for Christian writers.  I will not give anything away, however there is an interesting self test in the beginning that should help you identify what you should be doing to be a &quot;Roaring Lamb&quot;.  I will say the book has pleasantly cost me money as I keep buying copies to give to friends as gifts. Fred R. Eichelman, Ed.D.	2001-07-31
US	53044971	R11LMCD2FP0FX8	0151006431	510121269	Elvis in the Morning	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Dream Come True	As a conservative teacher, William F. Buckley fan, and Elvis buff this is a dream come true.  Buckley has well researched this book and he brings back an era as no other writer could.  It lets us see the flow of history from the mid fifties to mid seventies as we best remember it and gives us new information that helps us to understand the time we lived in.  Elvis would have approved this  book, though I am not sure whether Priscilla would and wonder if she has read it.  She should.  This is a book for every student of cultural change whether they loved Elvis, as some of us still do,  or not.  The depictions of Richard Nixon, Barry Goldwater, and others are written as only a man can who has known them as personally as Buckley did.  It is also the most positive telling of the legendary meeting between President Nixon and The King, an anecdote to some of the silly portrayals that have been put together by those who would ridicule both men.  It is one of those books I intend to reread in the future. Fred R. Eichelman, Ed.D.	2001-07-31
US	53044971	R3F0OIOX4ZHDM7	0671578871	327899805	Sentry Peak	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Longest Blond Joke	Harry Turtledove never lets you down with his writing.  As a historian myself it was great fun checking out the identities of his characters.  I am sure his motives were pure fun as this particular battle has been covered so many times that it is refreshing to look at it from another standpoint.  I would like to have seen some strong women characters.  It one respect it was hilarious, probably the longest blond joke ever written. Every stereotype ever used for blacks was placed upon blonds, as if they don't have enough in the real world.	2000-12-04
