US	53045954	R17AVW0JP2N1Y1	0312983654	246059244	The Wire in the Blood (Dr. Tony Hill & Carol Jordan Mysteries)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Excellent cat and mouse game	In THE MERMAIDS SINGING, Val McDermid introduced her readers to Dr. Tony Hill and Detective Sergeant Carol Jordan. They had teamed up to track down a serial killer who brutally tortured his victims before killing them. They respected each other and worked well together. However, the case took a lot out them and they started to drift apart.<br />Several months have passed since this horrifying case. Carol Jordan has been promoted and now she is Detective Chief Inspector and in charge of her own group of detectives in the town of Seaford. They are currently working on a case involving a series of arson fires happening around town. Jordan's squad is reluctantly investigating the case until one person dies. Jordan shows them no mercy and works them hard in finding out who is responsible of creating those fires. She will take this case very personally before, during, and after the suspect is arrested.<br />When we first met Dr. Hill in THE MERMAIDS SINGING he was heading a task force studying the viability of using profilers in police investigations. It was decided that the project is a go and Tony is training a special group of police officers in investigative profiling techniques. The author introduces each one of the students and explains the reason why they decided to become profilers. One day Dr. Hill gives them an exercise involving the unsolved disappearances of several teenage girls all around the United Kingdom. Tony invites Carol to the class to see if she would lend her technical expertise to the class discussion. Most of the students take this project as regular assignment but one of them sees it as much more. She analyzes every single aspect of their disappearances and tries to find a unifying factor. What she discovers is so outrageous that she discusses it in the class. She is ridiculed but undeterred. It is not until someone in her class is brutally murdered that Tony decides to do his own investigation.<br />The reader learns the identity of the kidnapper and killer earlier on in the book before any of the other characters. We learn why he is how he is and why he does what he does. McDermid evens spends the time in giving developing the characters and learning what they are thinking to some of the victims before they are brutally murdered. It might be considered to be a bit sadist but just because they are characters in the book it does not mean that they cannot be disposable. Some readers might be upset with this but it helps to strengthen the plot.<br />Tony Hill, Carol Jordan and the students all have a personal stake in bringing the murderer to justice. He thinks that he is invincible. Eventually at the end of the book there is a showdown and the bad guy is stopped. The villain is one of the most evil characters in books right now probably second to Hannibal Lecter. The author opens the possibility of bringing this character back. It will be a pleasure to learn about the repercussions of this book in her next Tony Hill/Carol Jordan booked called THE LAST TEMPTATION. Even if the villain does not return it will be nice to find out what happened afterward even if it is only a few sentences.	2002-08-26
US	53045954	R9SCPXWCUMZDX	0786230142	214350841	Austin City Blue	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Zoe rhymes with Joe	Jan Grape is best known for writing short stories and editing mystery anthologies. AUSTIN CITY BLUE is her first novel and hopefully, the beginning of a promising new series.<br />Zoe Barrow is a member of the Austin Police Department currently assigned to working desk duty at her local precinct. A few days ago she was attending a sports event at a local arena when she heard the call requesting police backup. Officer Barrow went to the scene and found two officers wounded at the hand of a single perpetrator. When the suspect starts to make a move she shoots him even though she is not aware of his identity. A few moments later she learns that he was Jesse Garcia the man responsible of putting her husband in a coma.<br />Zoe does not trust her feelings. She is not sure if she shot Garcia out of doing her duty or just plain revenge. It does not help that she is confined to office work and the people at Internal Affairs are getting on her case. She manages to get distracted from all that when Avery Peppard, a friend of her husband, comes to her asking for help. He believes his wife is having an affair with a cop and that they are plotting to kill him. She does not know what she can do for him so she helps him find Jason Foxx, a private detective, to help him. It is not until an informant with a connection to Peppard is found murdered in a motel room that Zoe decides to get involved.<br />Ms. Grape writes a good novel that is heavy in character development. Zoe is a conflicted woman who is torn between what she knows and what she believes. She loves he husband very much but he has been in a coma for a long time. She is attracted to Foxx but does not want to betray her husband. The story is fairly good with several red herrings placed throughout the novel. The author leaves the door open for another book and it will nice to learn more about the life of Zoe.	2002-08-26
US	53045954	R399VMQ0S4LGFT	0440223210	593360214	Murder for Revenge	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Calling it 'Revenge' would have been enough	When one picks up an anthology titled MURDER FOR REVENGE, you expect that all of the stories will have revenge murders as its theme. That is not the case with this collection. <br />Some of the stories, such as Lawrence Block's A BONE IN THE THROAT and Judith Kelman's ERADICUM HOMO HORIBILUS, involve characters seeking retribution after events of many years have passed. Other stories such as Joan Hess's CAVEAT EMPTOR, involve a woman who is taken advantage of and decides to get even in a deadly manner.<br />There are two stories that seemed misplaced in this book and they are Mary Higgins Clark's POWER PLAYS and Phillip Margolin's ANGIE'S DELIGHT. Granted they are two great authors but neither one of their stories could qualify as murder for revenge. The editor does treat us with a poem by Shel Silverstein titled THE ENEMY that talks about different ways of killing someone. Borrowing the title of Joan Hess's short story and buyer beware. The book's title is misleading and it might not be what you are looking for. Most of the stories are good but they just seem out of place in this collection.	2002-08-26
US	53045954	RQDCBJXPE3D5E	0671519166	226694098	Guilty As Charged	Books	3	4	4	N	N	I admit it. I read it	This collection of short stories is written by some of the best legal thriller writers around and Scott Turow edits the book. Unfortunately most of the stories are formulaic and very predictable. The book is good as a tool to discover authors one might have never read and hopefully finds one who is a great novelist. The best stories in this collection is Marcia Muller's Sharon McCone case KNIVES AT MIDNIGHT and the underrated master of the mystery short story Ed Gorman with THAT DAY AT EAGLE'S POINT.	2002-08-26
US	53045954	R1H0WX1C8AYNMS	0553578227	69145562	All the Dead Lie Down	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Fathers are heroes to their daughters	Molly Cates was introduced in the Edgar Award winning novel THE RED SCREAM. She is a writer for Lone Star Monthly and she has been obsessed in learning the truth about her father's death. For the last twenty-eight years she has spent her spare time investigating her father's alleged suicide at the expense of her job and her family. In Mary Willis Walker's latest novel Molly will finally learn the truth.<br />While covering a Texas bill for concealed weapons registration Molly sees Olin Crocker. Many years ago he worked as a sheriff and was in charge of investigating the alleged suicide of Vernon Cates. Molly believes that her father's death was murder and that Olin was paid off to look the other way. Molly also has a personal reason for loathing Crocker and it will be made clear further in the novel. This has motivated her to finally learn the truth once and for all.<br />The book has a second plotline involving Austin's homeless population. For the last few months Molly has been writing articles about the people she has met and trying to put an eye on the problem. One of the individuals she meets is Sara Jane Hurley who is better known as Cow Lady in the homeless circles. Cow Lady has kept to herself reciting Mother Goose rhymes. She spends the night under a deck and one day she learns overhears a plot to spray nerve gas in the Texas legislature before the concealed weapons bill is passed. Cow Lady does not know what to do and eventually tracks down Molly and asks for her help.<br />The reader gets to know a lot more about Molly than they did in THE RED SCREAM and UNDER THE BEETLE'S CELLAR. We learn why she became a writer, what drives her, and finally the truth about her father. Molly idolized her father for many years but in the end she will find out that he was just an ordinary person under extraordinary circumstances. Only time will tell how she will feel. The book's two storylines crowd each other and makes it feel like a tennis match. The nerve gas story seemed more like filler and the people involved do not seem real. It is good that the author brings social issues to her novel and that is what she should have focused on.	2002-08-26
US	53045954	R1OGIZ7M6MSJC2	0449001245	435088297	Naked Came the Manatee	Books	4	27	28	N	N	Florida Fun	Several years ago an editor for The Miami Herald's Tropic magazine came up with an interesting idea. He contacted several well-known and respected Floridian writers to participate in an unusual project. Each one involved would provide a part of a novel written chapter by chapter by a different author. Columnist Dave Barry began the novel by introducing us to a manatee named Booger, and then another author would continue the story.  Carl Hiaasen had the daunting task of taking all the loose ends provided by all the participants and creating a plausible conclusion to the story. This project has not been seen in several decades since Agatha Christie and other mystery writers worked on a similar type of storytelling. <br />During the last few years groups of authors have worked on similar projects like this and given their profits to charities. The problem is that some of these writers are not interested in writing a good story but finding a way to trip up the writer that is supposed to continue the plot. The only thing those authors share in common is the genre that they write. NAKED CAME THE MANATEE is better by the connection this particular group of people shares.<br />Most of the authors who worked on this book have lived in Florida for a long time. They know the area, its people and its customs and implement them in the story line. Some of the authors, such as Elmore Leonard, Dave Barry, and Carl Hiaasen, are funny in their own right that is perfect for this story. These authors know how to write a funny story and they can get away with it in this book. As a special treat for some of the book's readers is that some of the writers include their series characters in this novel. Among those making an appearance are Lee Standisford's John Deal and Edna Buchanan's Britt Montero.<br />Overall this novel is about a manatee that gets involved in a plot to discredit Fidel Castro. It is not Booger's fault. He just happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time just like some of the other characters in this story. NAKED CAME THE MANATEE is not meant to be taken seriously so just sit down and enjoy the ride.	2002-08-26
US	53045954	R2ET89XRYUZS65	0515124524	343392598	Hot Chocolate	Books	4	6	8	N	N	A bit too sweet	This collection of short stories is about women who share personal insecurities but decide to do something about it. The authors of this anthology take their main female characters and transform them from wallflowers into seductresses. The other thing these stories have in common is the use of chocolate as a plot device serving as some sort of key point in the story.<br />The sweetest story (no pun intended) of the group is Lori Foster's TANGLED SHEETS. Sophie Sheridan is a business owner who goes to the Winston Tavern every day after work for a cup of hot chocolate. She is attracted to bar owner Cole Winston and she is comfortable with their friendship. She would like to go one step further but she does not want to jeopardize what she already has with Cole. She pretends to have a twin sister named Shelly and she uses this alter ego to do the things that she wishes that she could do as Sophie. If things do not work out she can go back to her safe routine. Cole is intrigued and attracted to Shelly but he is in love with Sophie. He is a bit hesitant around Shelly but when he learns about Sophie's deception he will give her a Valentine's Day she will never forget. Nice and sweet stories for a rainy day.	2002-08-26
US	53045954	ROU05MJV7IBKI	0446610453	224791004	My Scottish Summer	Books	3	3	5	N	N	No great Scots	Four romance novelists got together to write a short story that shows the beauty of Scotland. These stories involve clueless women who get their foot stuck somewhere and gets help out of their predicament by a long-haired highlander. At first they cannot stand each other and near the end of each story fall madly in love.<br />None of the four stories give a feeling about Scotland. It relies heavily on stereotypes and the lack of scenic pictures in the book does not help at all. One gets so upset with the female protagonists that the visual imagery of the their location gets lost in the text. One of the most poorly edited stories in this anthology is Connie Brockway's LASSIE GO HOME. Devlin Montgomery is helping American Toni Olson to find a kidnapped dog by giving her a ride on his motorcycle. Dev is physically attracted to Toni in her jeans and her seductive cowboy boots. One night they are staying in a room where they wind up playing strip poker. Toni has apparently lost her pants and is about to lose another hand. Devlin is staring at her thinking, `If he won another hand, what would he ask her to shed - shirt or fantasy-inducing boot?' My question is the following, have you ever taken off your jeans while still wearing cowboy boots? It is near to impossible without having them removed first.<br />There are probably better stories that bring the essence of Scotland into their plot but this is not one of them. This book might seem like a good idea at the time but apparently too little time was given in the making of it.	2002-08-26
US	53045954	R2U7G6AQ5V3ZBR	0375503935	431556445	Magic Terror: 7 Tales	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Perhaps one good story	MAGIC TERROR is an anthology of previously released material compiled together into one book. Most of the stories are complex and it only creates confusion to his readers. Some of the stories are very disturbing in which we get inside the minds of madmen, such as the lead characters in ASHPUTTLE and BUNNY IS GOOD BREAD. The first story involves a kindergarten teacher who takes revenge out of something that happened in her childhood. The other story shows the evolution of a serial killer with the help of good old dad.<br />This collection of short stories is mainly for Peter Straub loyalists who enjoy reading his work. His novels are much better than his short stories. Try THE HELLFIRE CLUB or GHOST STORY for a real fun time.	2002-08-26
US	53045954	R73UTIQXUCRHV	0312262590	910287592	Strip Poker (Sierra Lavotini Mysteries)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Getting down to business	In the first three books of the series, Nancy Bartholomew introduced us to Sierra Lavotini, the headliner of the Tiffany's Gentleman's Club in Panama City. Sierra is book smart, loyal and no nonsense. She controls her boss, Vincent Gambuzzo, by hinting to her (non-existent) familial connections to a New Jersey Mafia boss known as `Big Moose' Lavotini. Ms. Bartholomew's books are filled with funny situations, a great supporting cast and a nice, cozy mystery. The author never makes her characters demeaning or condescending but after writing those fun books the writer decides to get a bit serious this time.<br />It is December and Christmas is just around the corner. Vincent Gambuzzo has lost the club during a poker game and is then accused of killing one of the players. Sierra is exploring her relationship with Detective John Nailor wondering if she has finally found true love. She is unhappy with the club's new management after changing its name to Big Mike's House of Booty that she decides to stage a walkout with the other dancers. Just when everyone needs her to help Vincent and save the club she has to fly to her hometown of Philadelphia to deal with a family emergency. This event will demonstrate how strong Sierra can be with herself.<br />In STRIP POKER, Sierra Lavotini has matured as a character after her adventures in the previous three books. We get to appreciate how she interacts with her entire family throughout their personal crisis and see the love that they share with each other. With the sole exception of Sierra's kooky neighbor Raydean, the comedy in this book is not so strong but that is all right. We get to see a major change in Sierra's life at the end of the novel making us wish that the next novel comes out soon. I guess it is time to read Ms. Bartholomew's other two novels that introduces Maggie Reid. It should be good.	2002-08-26
US	53045954	RAZW2O9B04NYT	0743439775	455946528	Flight	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Up in the air	Jan Burke, who is best known for her Irene Kelly mysteries, decides to put her main character as a secondary to let her husband, Las Piernas Police Detective Frank Harriman take the lead in this novel. It was nice of the author to lead one of the supporting characters to take the limelight in order to expand their literary universes. Most of the time the only thing we learn about the secondary characters is what the series hero let us know about them.<br />Ten years ago someone who wanted to frame Whitey Dane, the local crime boss, killed the Randolph family in their yacht. The Looking Glass Man (as the readers know him) failed in killing Seth Randolph and made a crucial mistake in framing Dane. The boy is in the hospital being watched by his mother, who was divorced from Mr. Randolph, and by Detective Phillip Lefebvre who has made it his mission to save the boy. The two have made a friendship and confide in each other. When Lefebvre learns about a crucial mistake the Looking Glass Man made, he is left wondering if someone from his own police department could have been the murderer. Crucial evidence disappears and Seth is found murdered in his hospital bed. The police suspects Lefebvre was involved but he has now disappeared.<br />A decade has passed and a Cessna plane has been found in the forest. It contains the body of Phillip Lefebvre who apparently was killed by a tampered airplane. Frank Harriman gets the case and learns about the resentment the police force had on this disgraced officer. Dane is also interested in learning what has been going on. He is not happy that someone framed him for a murder he did not commit and wants to learn the truth.<br />Harriman is relentless in his investigation and his wife Irene lends him a helping hand. Frank learns about people who had a connection to Lefebvre and will help him in the investigation. The Looking Glass Man is panicking and he will do what it takes to prevent the truth from coming out even if it includes murder.<br />This book pales in comparison to Ms. Burke's previous novel, BONES, which one the Edgar Award for Best Mystery Novel. The book is a good read and it provides something new to Irene Kelly fans. The story told through a different point of view.	2002-08-26
US	53045954	R3VIFRYR1N01VA	0312981023	613674879	Naughty or Nice?	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Uplifting	This collection of romantic short stories is a good pick-me-up for a bad or rainy days. All the stories are independent from one another. The only thing that links them all together is a Christmas theme.<br />The best story out of the four is Sherrilyn Kenyon's LOVE BYTES. It is story of two co-workers who are attracted to each other but their own personal insecurities keep them apart. Adrian is Samantha's supervisor and office relationships are discouraged. It is not until one of them is down and the other tries to cheer him up that their love blossoms. The story is nice and sweet even though there are some loose ends by the end of the story. This collection of novellas is fine as an escape after a bad or rough day but that's about it. It is not Masterpiece Theater	2002-08-11
US	53045954	RHOWWSEHUMKDY	0312983603	724236458	The Mermaids Singing (Dr. Tony Hill & Carol Jordan Mysteries)	Books	3	3	8	N	N	Too Analytical	THE MERMAIDS SINGING is the first of three novels that introduces the team of Detective Sergeant Carol Jordan and profiler Tony Hill. Dr. Hill leads the National Criminal Task Force and together working with DS Jordan they are going to investigate a series of torture murders occurring in the northern town of Bradfield.<br />The author lets us go inside the serial killer's psyche by starting each chapter of the book with a sample of the murderer's diary. It might have been insightful for the book's readers were it not for Hill's analytical reports. McDermid provides all the excruciating details of the Doctor's writing as it is being presented to the cops investigating the case. Were it not for Val McDermid's other superb novels, one might be turned off by this book.<br />As a whole, the book is slightly above average. The author does a good job with her characterization of Carol Jordan and Tony Hill making us wish for more. They both have some issues that the author develops well. The mystery was good while it started but the ending seemed to be abrupt and anticlimactic. Hopefully, THE WIRE IN THE BLOOD will be better. After all, Val McDermid is still one of my favorite authors.	2002-08-11
US	53045954	R10NS0IILFVBYH	0312977441	193819579	Film Strip (Sierra Lavotini Mysteries)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Keep them coming	Sierra Lavotini is back and the story is even better than ever. Someone is targeting the dancers at the Tiffany Gentlemen's Club in Panama City. At first the police think that Sierra's nemesis, Marla, is trying to stop the competition by killing Venus Lovemotion and Frosty Licks. Sierra is not convinced that even though she hates Marla's guts she does not think that she is responsible and will do her best to find out.<br />This book is even more fun and the author provides more information about Sierra mainly why she moved from Philadelphia to work at Panama City. In DRAG STRIP we met one of Sierra's four brothers and here we meet another brother. He helps Sierra work the case by pretending to be Little Moose Lavotini, a well-known mobster. As far as Sierra knows she has no relation to Moose Lavotini but she uses this `familial' connection to help her control her boss, Vincent Gambuzzo, and to put fear at the person she believes to be the killer. She provides a unique touch to her investigation and at the same time helps her police boyfriend, Detective John Nailor. The book is filled with many laugh out loud moments and provides a nice twist at the end of this book. STRIP POKER is going to be a lot of fun.	2002-08-11
US	53045954	R14OEJRUWU7BPG	0312974752	472175536	Winter of the Wolf Moon: An Alex McKnight Mystery (St. Martin's Minotaur Mysteries)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good	Steve Hamilton continues his strong writing with this sequel to his Edgar Award winning-novel, A COLD DAY IN PARADISE. The author brings back Alex McKnight and the small town of Paradise located in Michigan's northern peninsula. McKnight is a former cop who retired after being injured on the job. He tried his luck as a private detective but after the incidents in the previous novel he just wants to put himself together and enjoy his life. Everything changes with a hockey game.<br />Vinnie LeBlanc, a friend of McKnight, drafts him as a goalie for an over-thirty hockey league. It is shortly thereafter that he meets Lonnie Bruckman, a player from the opposing team, who is physically abusive and stoned in drugs. They get involved in several altercations leaving neither of them in good condition. One night he meets Bruckman's girlfriend, Dorothy Parrish. She wants to hire McKnight in trying to get away from the abusive relationship and start a new life. He agrees to let her spend the night in one of the cabins he rents and to discuss it in the morning. The next morning she disappears.<br />When he confronts Bruckman he finds out that he did not kidnap his girlfriend. He is also searching for her because she took something that was not hers and he wants him back. Alex gets into it very deep when he learns that Bruckman is not a threat but someone else.<br />Hamilton knows how to write an entertaining story and he does a decent job here. There are certain parts in the book that did not make sense such as McKnight's involvement with the case. He could have let the cops do their job but instead he gets personally involved. The supporting characters are strong and interesting. A COLD DAY IN PARADISE is one of the best novels from a few years ago. This next work comes close but not quite.	2002-08-11
US	53045954	RSS175OORF37B	0553568590	611506260	A Far and Deadly Cry	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Superb	Three years ago in the remote Hampshire village of Fetherbridge, New Scotland Yard and the local constabulary are involved in a siege at a place of worship. They were trying to arrest Tom Grayson on terrorism charges but things went drastically wrong. Tom and his then-pregnant wife, Gale are holed up inside a church trying to escape the police. When the police decide to storm the building Tom shoots himself and leaves Gale as a grieving widow.<br />Time has passed since the tragic event and Gale is moving up with her life. She is still living in the same village working as a writer and taking care of her daughter, Katie Pru. Her peaceful life will be shattered when Katie Pru's baby sitter is found murdered in a village road.<br />Chief Inspector Daniel Halford and Detective Sergeant Maura Ramsden are sent to Fetherbridge to investigate the murder of Lisa Stillwell. The main reason they were assigned to the case is because they participated in the failed arrest of Tom Grayson. They both have serious misgivings after they are convinced that Gale was innocent of her husband's crimes. They also remember the locals and the locals remember them. Hopefully, they will be able to solve the case quickly but that will not be the case. There is a lot of resentment with New Scotland Yard regarding their attack on the town and some of the townspeople hate Gale Grayson.<br />Ms. Holbrook does an excellent job with this novel by not creating flat characters. All of the major players are well-developed and they evolve as the story goes along. No one had a reason to hate 22-year-old Lisa Stillwell but as the investigation ensues we learn that that is not the case. The story is complex and well-structured with a satisfactory conclusion to the story. The author is clearly influenced by the works of P.D. James and her books do not disappoint.<br />Teri Holbrook's novels have been nominated for several awards, more recently an Edgar-award nomination for THE MOTHER'S TONGUE. The author knows how to structure a good story and hopefully we will see more of her Gale Grayson novels in the future. Her books deserve the highest possible recommendation.	2002-08-08
US	53045954	R31DQNOM095NAM	0312975791	840126807	DRAG STRIP	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Another winner	Sierra Lavotini is the headliner of the Tiffany Gentlemen's Club in Panama City, Florida. After her debut in Nancy Bartholomew's MIRACLE MILE, she is back to make us laugh and smile in her latest mystery. In DRAG STRIP, Ruby Lee Diamond has recently moved out of her parent's house in Wewahitchka to work at Panama City. Sierra takes Ruby under her wing and shows her the ropes of her profession.<br />In order to promote his gentleman's club, Vincent Gambuzzo sends Sierra and Ruby to the local drag strip to pose with the drivers competing at the day's races. While working there Sierra sees Detective John Nailor in the hands of another woman (the nerve!) and he is doing everything he can to avoid bumping into her. During that same day she overhears Ruby arguing with someone and then being beaten to death. Sierra arrives too late to stop it and the killer manages to escape. It affects her really hard because she saw Ruby as a friend and she is unable to confide in John Nailor since he is on the run from the cops. Lavotini is not going to take it sitting down and she will do what it takes to find out the truth. In the end she will be involved with religious zealots, organized crime and family secrets.<br />Ms. Bartholomew has another winner with this second book in the Strip series. Sierra is a likeable character who is smart, resourceful and is grounded by the unconditional love given to her by her friends and family. There is a lot of humor written in this book that does not divert from the main storyline. An exotic dancer was murdered and there is a killer tracking Sierra to try and find out what she knows. Several scenes could have been insulting if written by other authors but Nancy Bartholomew is a class act. She never belittles her characters and her books are a joy to read. It will be a pleasure to continue reading her next book in the series, FILM STRIP. She writes good and light books meant to be enjoyed and not taken seriously.	2002-08-08
US	53045954	R1W5MW2USYUYAP	1575668181	180184587	Women On The Edge	Books	5	2	2	N	N	One of the best mystery anthologies out there	There are times when short story collections may be disappointing but this is one of the best mystery anthologies out there. The stories are all top notch and it stays with you after having finished them. Some of the best stories are THE CASE OF THE PIETRO ANDROMACHE by Sara Paretsky where she departs from writing a story in the first person and tries something new with one of V. I. Warshawski supporting characters; Loren Estleman's I'M IN THE BOOK which is a good starting point for readers not familiar with his character, Amos Walker; and Barbara Collins's SEEING RED about a woman who has a very bad day.<br />My favorite story out of this whole collection is Ed Gorman's THE REASON WHY. It is a story of a twenty-year class reunion in which a couple of students have been keeping a secret since high school graduation. They receive a threatening letter saying that they must confess to their crime. It is a very powerful and moving story. If you do not care for the authors involved in the project at least try Gorman's short story.	2002-08-05
US	53045954	R1326OCX8SG5T0	0380714000	374862959	Gallows View: The First Inspector Banks Mystery	Books	5	112	119	N	N	Impressive First Novel	After having read PAST REASON HATED and BLOOD AT THE ROOT it was time to start at the beginning of this wonderful series. GALLOWS VIEW is the first novel that introduces Peter Robinson's creation of Inspector Alan Banks.<br />Women are being terrorized in the small English town of Eastvale by a peeping tom who likes to stare at women while they undress. There has also been a series of robberies affecting this small town but the police start taking notice when they find the body of Alice Matlock. The police cannot help themselves to wander if this was the work of outsiders or if the peeping tom passion has gotten to be deadly. Inspector Banks is in charge of the case and is working together with Dr. Jennifer Fuller to try to help him understand the mind of the voyeur and to see if there is possibility that he could be dangerous.<br />This book is a police procedural that does not carry a lot of surprises or revelations. What makes this book great is how the author takes what could be considered an ordinary day in the life of a police officer and make it interesting. Inspector Banks has some personal problems and he is attracted to the doctor. He wants to yield towards temptation and he knows it would not be right. The author does a good job also in showing life in a small town by showing the townspeople and involving them in the story. He adds everything from a camera club meeting all the way towards two teens heading into a life of trouble. <br />As a first novel, it is a very good book and helped in the understanding of Inspector Banks. There are quite a few of the author's work that follow this novel and it will be a pleasure to continue reading them in the future.	2002-08-05
US	53045954	R10O6ANU63M7KR	0451198484	743095882	The Inheritance	Books	4	6	7	N	N	More of the same	Former travel agent, Holly Smith has recently discovered that she is the heir to the Randall fortune. When she was a baby she was put up for adoption and now her grandfather wishes to leave all his fortune to her after his death. She is unaware of the circumstances of her adoption but once she comes to live at Randall House she will learn the truth. Holly's other relatives are not happy with her appearance since she now owns most of the Randall Estate. They want her dead and make it look like an accident in order to get their hands on the money.<br />If you have not read any of Tom Savage's novels you are in for a treat. Things are not what they seem. This book has its requisite twist and turns with a surprise ending. Unfortunately most of his novels carry the same formula. If you have never read his novels you will enjoy this one, if you read him before the surprise will be lost on you.	2002-08-05
US	53045954	R1HBU07QP2AOBI	0451409841	192656177	Still Life	Books	1	6	7	N	N	Deserves a severe brush-off	A frustrated artist is targeting young actresses in Los Angeles. Under false pretenses the murderer visits each victim's apartment, offers to sketch them at no cost and later slays them and poses them as famous paintings such as The Mona Lisa and The Birth of Venus. This monster shares a special connection with radio psychologist Teri Fields. The killer would call her when she was doing her show and taunts Dr. Fields by describing the murders and providing clues as to the relationship shared by the killer and the radio host. Detective Amiel `Touch' Benson is on the case and he will be relentless in the case. He starts to fall for the good doctor and it might endanger his career in the Los Angeles Police Department. Had he been shot this book's readers could consider it a mercy killing.<br />This is one of the worst novels ever written and published. How did this book make it over the transom? The author makes up too many rookie mistakes to have a serious career as a crime novelist. He overwhelms his main character with so many quirks and personal problems that he has no credibility as a character. He has two eyes of different colors; he is separated from his wife who suffers from extreme bipolar disorder; his boss hates him; he is in love with his partner, Detective Amanda Blaine; he is an alcoholic; he lacks judgment by getting intimately involved with his main witness of these deaths; and he got his nickname for his success at playing touch football. Yeah, right.<br />The plot of this book reads like a bad eighties television movie. The way the author describes a crime scene you would expect the cops to be able to solve it before lunch. What the author does is drag it on and on probably to fulfill his quota of book pages. He makes sure that his characters get plenty of sex and he tries to build everything up to a big shocking ending that does not surprise anyone. The writer uses a plot device that is so overused that it should be banned from any new mysteries or crime novels. If you have read Don Passman's THE VISIONARY, Edna Buchanan's NOBODY LIVES FOREVER or Sidney Sheldon's TELL ME YOUR DREAMS, among others out there, then you probably read all you need to know about the subject. There are better novels out there, keep searching.	2002-08-05
US	53045954	R3TCMLW1J5769B	0451176723	838917657	Mitigating Circumstances	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Novel of pure vengeance	District Attorney Lily Forrester has recently been promoted to Chief of the Sex Crimes Unit. She is glad to get the appointment but it came at a high price. She is unhappy with her marriage and her relationship with her daughter is deteriorating day by day.<br />Lily decides to get a fresh start when she asks her husband for a divorce and move out to a new apartment. Her life is irrevocably changed when an intruder storms into her home and rapes both her and her daughter, Shana. Lily believes she recognizes her assailant as one of the case files she brought home from work. Without thinking it over she decides to go kill him. She tracks the suspect and shoots him dead without even flinching. She then erases all traces of evidence she can think of that might identify her. She will now try to continue her life and help her daughter.<br />Unfortunately, things do not go as planned. Both Lily and Shana are still traumatized by the events and they both disagree as to who raped them. Lily wonders if she has made a mistake now that there is a relentless cop investigating the case.<br />Nancy Taylor Rosenberg does a good job in applying what she knows in this novel. She has worked in law enforcement for many years and has dealt with sexual offenders. The victims and situations felt real as well as the emotional trauma Lily feels for her action. The novel reads like a Lifetime movie but it kept my interest.	2002-07-23
US	53045954	R3SVTHDIEXRX48	0316693200	309666534	2nd Chance	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Nice try	This book marks the return of Lt. Lindsay Boxer, Medical coroner Claire Washburn, San Francisco Assistant District Attorney Jill Bernhardt and Crime scene reporter, Cindy Thomas. In 1ST TO DIE, these four professional women band together to stop a serial killer targeting newlyweds during their honeymoon. As a group they were able to solve the crime and in turn become the closest of friends.<br />In this second book of the series, The Women's Murder Club (or the Margarita Posse, as they call themselves) join forces in stopping a serial killer targeting African-Americans. What at first seems to be a series of random hate crimes turn out to be something more sinister. There is a self-righteous serial killer calling himself Chimera who is killing the relatives of African-American cops. When Chimera shoots Lt. Boxer's boss, the gloves come off and the Women's Murder Club is back in business.<br />This book is weaker than the first novel. In the first book the authors focus on Lindsay Boxer who was feeling suicidal after learning she had a rare blood disease. There was very few details provided about the lives of the other three members of the group outside of their jobs with the sole exception of a confession given by Jill. In this current novel, Lindsay's condition is now in remission and she is stronger than ever. The character development of the other three is still slow. One of them gets good news that later becomes bad, one of them starts to date a witness to Chimera's crimes, and the last one gets her life threatened by this serial killer.<br />The book has its requisite twist and turns and it is a quick read. What would enhance this novel is if there is a change of viewpoint in each one of the novels. Lindsay told the story in books one and two. Let someone else take the reins in the next one. Just something to consider for the next time.	2002-07-21
US	53045954	R2NRVUQRZAV3MA	0425182258	766875481	2: Master's Choice Vol. II: Mystery Stories by Today's Top Writers and the Masters who Inspired Them Vol II	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good effort	Block has created an interesting concept in this new anthology series. He contacted several mystery writers asking for what they considered to be their best story as well as the best story they have ever read. The response was overwhelming and the editor collected some of them in this book...<br />In the first volume of this anthology the adage `less is more' can be applied to the best stories in the collection. Some of the best include Ed Gorman's EN FAMILLE and Joan Hess's ANOTHER ROOM. Ms. Hess's choice for best short story is Judith Garner's TRICK OR TREAT. It is about four pages long and one of the scariest stories ever written. It is not because of what happens in the story but what may happen. A sample of good writing is when the author forces the reader to use their imagination in order to create their own ending. There can be different interpretations but each one is precious. The imagination is a powerful weapon. The least favorite story in this book is Harlan Ellison's TIRED OLD MAN. The problem with this story is that Ellison describes the incident that inspired his story creating a carbon copy with fictional characters. Who wants to read a story twice?	2002-07-21
US	53045954	RU8F50O1LJ3DZ	0671028367	666165371	Deadly Decisions (Temperance Brennan, No. 3)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Too much research, too little novel	Forensic anthropologist Temperance Brennan is back on the third book of Kathy Reich's series. She is working with the Canadian police in a task force identifying motorcycle members bodies involved in a big gang war in Quebec. During the course of her work, she recovers the bodies of two bikers who have been missing for over ten years. While digging them up she discover the leg bones and skull of an unidentified young girl. The only clue Tempe has is an implant found in the girl's skull.<br />Once the girl's identity has been established Tempe discovers that the girl's other bones were found in South Carolina. How did a missing girl from South Carolina wind up in Quebec? Where was she killed? Tempe will learn the truth in the death of this girl and learn about a moment of hubris by the main bad guy in this book. Naturally, this book would not be anything if Dr. Brennan's life was not threatened. You can be sure it does.<br />It is clear that the author spent a lot of time and research in writing this book. There is more information on blood spatter techniques, motorcycles, and biker gang hierarchy to intimidate the amateur. She uses a lot of her forensic anthropology expertise with her alter ego, Dr. Brennan. There are several cases that the doctor works on that come together in a moment of serendipity. It is too much to let the reader rely on coincidence and leaps of logic in order to enjoy Ms. Reichs's novels.	2002-07-21
US	53045954	R13VJUDI641BN1	0553571729	37218598	The Red Scream	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Death Penalty Novel	Edgar-Award winning author Mary Willis Walker demonstrates her talent as a serious writer with this death penalty novel. She does not preach but provide a few things that could go wrong when executing someone guilty of capital murder. In this novel she introduces Louie Bronk, a self-confessed serial killer, who in the next few days will be executed for a crime he might have not committed.<br />Molly Cates is a crime writer for Lone Star Monthly from Austin, Texas. She has recently published a true crime book chronicling the life of Louie Bronk and the murder of Andrea `Tiny' McFarland. As she prepares to follow-up with this story she is being deterred by the victim's husband as well as her boss no to proceed with the story. A few days later two people related to the McFarlands are brutally murdered. If this was not bad enough Bronk confesses to dozens of murders except the McFarland one. He has found religion and he is not going to confess to something he did not do. Molly hates to look like a fool after everything she went to write her book so she is determined to find out the truth. Everything she believed about the case will be shattered and she will do what she can to make things right.<br />Mary Willis Walker has a winner with this book. This is her first book in a series that will be a pleasure to continue to read. Her character development is very strong by showing everything she can reveal about Molly, warts and all. There are times when Ms. Cates is not sure about what she is doing that the author reflects on her weaknesses and her insecurities. This makes her appear more real to the reader and more appealing. THE RED SCREAM is pure enjoyment and hopefully her other novels will be just as good.	2002-07-16
US	53045954	R2QHZYB6H8YJ4J	0399148728	440578728	Fire Ice (The Numa Files)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Enjoy the experience	Kurt Austin, head of the National Underwater Marine Agencys Special Assignments Team, returns in the third book of Clive Cussler and Paul Kemprecos popular series. Austin is taking a working vacation at the Black Sea after his previous adventure in BLUE GOLD. <br />While taking a test flight on an experimental plane he sees a television crew about to be attacked by a group of Cossacks. Doing his best Mighty Mouse impersonation he goes and saves the day. He will later learn what this attack had to do with a stolen American submarine and a tsunami that destroyed part of a small Maine town. NUMA will once again try to save the planet by having Austin team up with a former Russian enemy in trying to prevent a Russian mining magnate from creating a catastrophic terrorist act. <br />This book is a pleasure to read because the author brings back everything that is familiar to his fans. The authors make good use of well-known supporting characters from Clive Cusslers Dirk Pitt series. They include everyone from NUMA chief Admiral Sandecker all the way to computer expert Hiram Yaeger. There is a lot of action and humor throughout the novel and at times it can be educational. If you are not familiar with how tsunamis are formed you will be by the time you finish this book.<br />The villain in this work is stereotypical and one wishes that there were more character development in the story. The ending to this novel seems a lit bland after everything that happens here. The book can be entertaining if you do not over think it. Sit back and enjoy the reading experience.	2002-07-15
US	53045954	R34N5MHFREAEWR	0399148817	524201117	Sleep No More	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Whoa!	After the success of DEAD SLEEP the author decides to try something new with SLEEP NO MORE. This book is not a sequel but a new standalone novel that includes a pair of characters from THE QUIET GAME. Before the story begins the author warns the reader to prepare for a wild ride and he is not kidding. Iles does this by creating a noir novel and placing it in The Twilight Zone.<br />Geologist John Waters is living a somewhat comfortable life. He lives in Natchez, Mississippi, has a successful business and a loving family. The only thing that is troubling him is that his wife is reeling from two previous miscarriages and the Environmental Protection Agency is looking hard at some of the work Waters has done. They are all regular problems that eventually will be solved. His life as he knows it will change one afternoon during his daughter's soccer game.<br />While watching the game he is entranced by Eve Sumner, a young real estate agent working and living at Natchez, who leaves Waters with a sense of deja vu. She sends him a signal only known to him and a former lover named Mallory Candler. What make this even stranger is that Mallory died from a brutal assault and rape that happened in New Orleans ten years ago. What is Eve Sumner's relationship with Mallory? When he finally meets up with Eve he is going to be flabbergasted with what she tells him. She reveals things that only Mallory and Waters could know and once she explains how she knows it will blow his mind.<br />Everything John took for granted is questioned and he becomes so obsessed with Eve that he is willing to give up his family to be with her. It is not until his family is threatened that he starts to put his life together. Things get worse when Eve's body is found strangled in a motel room and all the evidence points out to Waters. He is going to have to prove his innocence while trying to save his family from a clever trap.<br />Iles takes a complete departure from his previous writing style in writingthis novel. There is a lot that can be said about this book that will spoil the reader's enjoyment. Suffice it to say, there are some clever twists in this novel that will keep readers guessing. You will want to read this book quickly in order to appreciate its thrills.	2002-07-15
US	53045954	R2OS0W4ARNC5CU	1581821999	320100970	A Rumor of Bones: A Lindsay Chamberlain Mystery	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Great comfort read	Beverly Connor's debut novel is a wonderful surprise. Forensic archaeologist Lindsay Chamberlain is in the town of Merry Claymoore, GA working with a group digging an old Indian site. Her work is briefly interrupted when the local town sheriff asks for Lindsay's expertise. The town recently uncovered the bones of a child and they needed to identify it. In order to promote good relations with the local townspeople Lindsay agrees to help. During the course of her novel the investigation will lead to a deep family secret kept hidden for several decades after the discovery of a more contemporary body.<br />What makes this book a joy to read is that Lindsay is not an amateur detective, she is an archaeologist. She is a professional who knows how to do her job and is able to see what others might overlook. She makes it look natural without going through any giant leaps in logic. She has a strong circle of friends that keep her grounded and the reader gets to see her day-by-day job at the archaeological site without making it seem boring. She knows how to keep it interesting by making it look like an ordinary thing.<br />Beverly Connor is probably one of the most overlooked mystery novelist around. Lindsay Chamberlain holds a lot of promise and hopefully her next novel will be just as enjoyable as this one.	2002-07-09
US	53045954	R2BPMHPQ44HJVL	042518546X	702254891	Open Season (A Joe Pickett Novel)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Great debut	C. J. Box has a promising new career as a novelist. OPEN SEASON introduces Wyoming Game Warden Joe Pickett, a good family man with a strong moral compass. No matter what obstacles are put on his way he will do whatever it takes to put things right.<br />As the novel starts the body of Ote Keeley is found on Pickett's backyard. Keeley has been a thorn on Pickett's side for quite some time since he humiliated him while performing his job. The game warden has been made fun of due to this incident and nobody will let him forget it. Beside the body of Keeley there is a broken ice cooler and it seems that Ote wanted to show Joe something before he was shot.<br />During the course of the investigation several other bodies of people close to Keeley turn up dead. The main suspect is in critical condition at the hospital after a police shoot-out. Pickett is not convinced that they have their man so he decides to perform his own investigation. During his work he will find that his family, his job and his life are all in jeopardy.<br />Box does a superb job in keeping Joe Pickett real by introducing us to his family. They all love each other and will do anything for each other. They all share the same worries and struggles that plague the mind of this family man. If someone comes after his family, he is not going to show them any mercy. Joe's oldest daughter, Sheridan, has been hiding a secret since the body of Keeley was found and she will be playing an important role in the book's conclusion. <br />There are no easy answers in this novel. The conclusion of the case will bring a lot of unintended consequences to the small town in Wyoming that will probably linger in his future novels. If you like the novels of P. J. Parrish and Steve Hamilton you will certainly enjoy C. J. Box's debut novel.	2002-07-09
US	53045954	R1GD6B8CE8S99F	0345298349	941873607	Gorky Park (Arkady Renko Novels)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Powerful	When GORKY PARK was published in 1981, the Soviet Union was still going on strong. Now with the passage of time the USSR is nothing but a distant memory and the former republics are fighting hard to keep their independence. Reading Martin Cruz Smith's novel now gives a unique perspective to life in this foreign land.<br />We are introduced to Russian Homicide Detective Arkady Renko who is investigating a triple homicide in Gorky Park. All of the victims were shot and they were intentionally disfigured in order to prevent identification. The only clue left on the scene were a pair of ice skates worn by one of the victims that belonged to actress Irina Asanova. Renko must deal with petty bureaucrats, crooked politicians, the KGB as well as his own personal problems with his own wife.<br />Irina knows more than she is telling the detective. Renko is smitten with her and he is not confident about his feelings. The other major player in this novel is an American furrier named John Osbourne. This businessman has strong connections with Soviet officials and it is believed that he is also a KGB informant. Several Russian officials are protecting him but Renko is not to be dissuaded. He will do what he needs to do in order to get to the bottom of this mystery.<br />Cruz's work is very powerful and strong in character development. Each one of the three major characters has a story to tell and the author does a great job in developing each one. It is a story of heartbreak and broken dreams and definitely one of the best novels ever written about Russia.	2002-07-09
US	53045954	RS4DGWE3NS5GK	0812575504	789113180	Charon's Landing (Philip Mercer)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Gratuitous graphic violence	In Philip Mercer's second adventure he comes face-to-face with his Russian nemesis, Ivan Kerikov. The Russian is angry with Mercer for foiling his plan in VULCAN'S FORGE. He was forced to flee from Russia but not before stealing several Top Secret documents pertaining to Cold War plans. CHARON'S LANDING is one of the plans.<br />This latest scheme involves creating the biggest man made disaster in recorded history making the Exxon Valdez spill seem like spilt milk. Kerikov enlists and bankrolls a radical environmentalist group without telling them of his hidden agenda. The Russian is also teaming up with a group of Middle Eastern mercenaries for reasons that will be made clear later in the novel.<br />Mercer gets involved in this debacle through unforeseen circumstances. Together with a group of friends he witnesses a shipwreck that was not meant to be found. Kerikov in his haste orders everyone killed in order to prevent them to ruin his plans. Had he left them alone Mercer would have not been involved and therefore there would not have been any novel.<br />This book was a major disappointment compared to his previous novel. There is a lot of action, humor and suspense but the author went a bit overboard. There were several scenes of graphic violence in this book that seemed to be a bit gratuitous. The author can accomplish this better if he lets the reader's imagination take flight. We do not need a play by play action. Anyone who reads CHARON'S LANDING as their first Du Brul novel might be leery of trying his other novels. Only time will tell.	2002-07-09
US	53045954	R3BS1A7HT6D3NY	0812564618	264170645	Vulcan's Forge (Philip Mercer)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great start	It is unfair to compare Jack Du Brul's writing with those of Ian Fleming and Clive Cussler. In reading this novel the author's influences are very clear but he does it with his own sense of style. He is a promising new author who will probably be successful with his projects.<br />Philip Mercer is a geologist who becomes embroiled in a disaster happening in the Pacific Ocean area. Several ships have disappeared near the island of Hawaii including a NOAA ship where Mercer would have been part of the crew if not for prior commitments. In that ship is Mercer's mentor's daughter Tish Talbot. She is the only survivor of that shipwreck and there are people who want to kill her. Out of a sense of obligation Mercer becomes her bodyguard until he can figure what is going on.<br />In the island of Hawaii a civil war is beginning to brew. Takahoru Ohnishi is one of the most powerful men in Hawaii. He controls the cops as well as several government officials and is currently bankrolling a coup attempt. Ohnishi is a racist who wants to break out of the United States in order to give Hawaii its own independence and be able to do business with the Japanese. The reality is that all of this is a diversion to what is really happening in the Pacific Ocean. It is a Russian top secret plan that has been set into motion fifty years ago and it is now coming to fruition. If successful it will bring a lot of money and influence to the participants.<br />The book has a lot of humor and action making it quite entertaining. The supporting characters in this novel are strong and are probably going to return in the near future. If you are looking for a great beach read this is the book for you. It is the start of what appears to be an incredible series.	2002-07-09
US	53045954	R1ATV5ZGZDKJD5	0812564618	264170645	Vulcan's Forge (Philip Mercer)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great start	It is unfair to compare Jack Du Brul's writing with those of Ian Fleming and Clive Cussler. In reading this novel the author's influences are very clear but he does it with his own sense of style. He is a promising new author who will probably be successful with his projects.<br />Philip Mercer is a geologist who becomes embroiled in a disaster happening in the Pacific Ocean area. Several ships have disappeared near the island of Hawaii including a NOAA ship where Mercer would have been part of the crew if not for prior commitments. In that ship is Mercer's mentor's daughter Tish Talbot. She is the only survivor of that shipwreck and there are people who want to kill her. Out of a sense of obligation Mercer becomes her bodyguard until he can figure what is going on.<br />In the island of Hawaii a civil war is beginning to brew. Takahoru Ohnishi is one of the most powerful men in Hawaii. He controls the cops as well as several government officials and is currently bankrolling a coup attempt. Ohnishi is a racist who wants to break out of the United States in order to give Hawaii its own independence and be able to do business with the Japanese. The reality is that all of this is a diversion to what is really happening in the Pacific Ocean. It is a Russian top secret plan that has been set into motion fifty years ago and it is now coming to fruition. If successful it will bring a lot of money and influence to the participants.<br />The book has a lot of humor and action making it quite entertaining. The supporting characters in this novel are strong and are probably going to return in the near future. If you are looking for a great beach read this is the book for you. It is the start of what appears to be an incredible series.	2002-07-09
US	53045954	RSOJJ3T3NEMDQ	0312265859	52382288	Hard Eight (Stephanie Plum)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Enough already	In Stephanie Plum's eighth adventure, she is doing a favor for her parents' next-door neighbor. The neighbor's daughter, Evelyn is missing as well as Annie, her grandchild. If they do not show up within the next few days the neighbor will lose her house which she put into collateral in a child custody bond. Evelyn's former husband will be glad to collect and he has not made it a secret. Stephanie will try to do what she can since she is a bounty hunter and not a detective.<br />What have we learned from the other seven novels? Stephanie has bad luck with cars, she is always way over her head, and there is a skip tracer who always manages to make Stephanie look like a fool. This novel is no different. There is little emphasis put in Evelyn's story in order to make room for Stephanie's misadventures. The ending of this novel seemed to be rushed and the story does not have a clear resolution as to why Evelyn disappeared. The story that Evelyn gives Plum sounds a bit bogus and unconvincing.<br />Anyone who has read Ms. Evanovich's previous novels will read this book no matter what anyone else says. It is just that it is about time for Stephanie to grow as a character and be able to do something that is important and meaningful to her besides Tasty Kakes and sex. There is much more that the author can explore with this character and hopefully it will happen in the future. It is time for Stephanie to be involved in a case with very high stakes whether they are personal or emotional. She is always bumbling until she gets the job right. Why not let her do something that she can be proud of? Maybe it is just wishful thinking.	2002-07-08
US	53045954	RIZ6B3RP10N9A	0399148477	436056065	Turbulence	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Another editorial disguised as a novel	What first starts as a Bentley-Little-type novel turns out to be a hidden editorial about airline regulations and accountability. Meridian Airlines is the worst airline in the world. The author amalgamates airplane passenger's worst nightmares into this fictional airline making them glad that they are not on this flight. The ticket counter people are poorly trained, the airline stewardesses are rude, and the pilots are so inexperienced they should not even be flying yet.<br />On Meridian Flight 6, everything that can go wrong goes wrong and most of the crew could care less. There are only two sympathetic people on this flight. Co-pilot Garth Abbott is trying to make sense of Captain Phil Knight's erratic behavior and stewardess Janie Bretsen is trying to control head stewardess, Judy Jackson who is acting very rude and almost injured a child. Ms. Jackson hides in the cockpit in order to avoid an assault by outraged riders. <br />Dr. Brian Logan is one of the passengers on this flight. He is on this flight as a last resort because no other flights were available to take him to his destination. Several months ago, Logan's wife was on a Meridian flight and she was having complications with her pregnancy. She begged for the plane to land in order to go to a hospital but the crew refused. She died during the flight and now Logan is involved in a multimillion lawsuit against the airline. The events on this particular flight will force him to lead a mutiny against the captain in order for them to reach their destination safely. The problems on this flight are numerous to mention.<br />Nance uses his novel as a forum to regulate airlines by offering comments and suggestions throughout his characters. Some of the passengers on this flight have a unique story or reasons to be on this flight. The author does not develop them at all deciding to mash everything at the end of the book. Mr. Nance does know how to write an airplane thriller but it is very hard to relax with this novel. The outrageousness of this flight was a bit too much and can easily rise anyone's blood pressure with this airline's negligence. Do not give up with this author; try any of his previous novels like HEADWIND and BLACKOUT. They are better novels.	2002-07-08
US	53045954	R3UZXEUXJVKDSQ	0446530220	622113275	The Cabinet of Curiosities (Pendergast, Book 3)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Be curious	In THE CABINET OF CURIOSITIES, a construction crew working on Lower Manhattan discovers evidence of a rash of a century-old serial killer. FBI Agent Pendergast needs to investigate the site before the building owner destroys it. He enlists the reluctant aid of archaeologist Nora Kelly to survey the site. What she uncovers is a slaughterhouse of human victims used in some mad experiments by 19th century Dr. Enoch Leng. Dr. Leng was studying a way to prolong human life by experimenting on other people regardless of the consequences. Later the characters will be asking themselves, was Dr. Leng successful?<br />A few days after the grisly discovery was done someone is continuing the work the Doctor left behind. Several victims have been attacked and mutilated the same way as the bodies found at the construction site. Pendergast is left with a quandary. Is there someone copycatting Dr. Leng's work or is Dr. Leng doing it himself? Once the truth is revealed it will have terrifying consequences to Pendergast and the rest of the world.<br />The authors of this novel know how to entertain its readers. Preston and Child know how to create action and suspense by having the reader guess with the characters as to what is being unfolded. Several characters from other novels make their return appearance in this book giving it a sense of familiarity to the authors' fans. The plot in this book is a bit predictable and there are several clues provided throughout the novel. The ending is a bit anticlimactic when one expects there to be more to the story. Despite all this, the authors fulfilled their objective which is to entertain.	2002-07-08
US	53045954	R3SRNQQJAYJQ5G	0446610232	156360117	The Ice Limit	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Frozen solid	Hundreds of millions of years ago, a meteorite crashed on Earth near the country of Chile. What makes this phenomenon so unique is the size, weight and properties of the object. The existence of this mysterious rock has been unknown for millions of years until it was discovered by Nestor Masangkay. For some reason while the scientist is studying the rock a bolt of lightning hits and kills him. It will be a while before anyone expresses any interest to what happened in Isla Desolacion in Chile.<br />Palmer Lloyd is the seventh richest man in the world. Whatever he wants, he gets. It does not matter what he has to do in order to get it. He will buy out, outbid or steal in order to fulfill his wishes. He is interested in the meteorite and he wants it no matter if it creates an international incident. Palmer hires a troubleshooter who in turns hires a group of disgraced professionals who see this mission as their last shot at redemption. The doomed crew will go to Chile, get the rock, and then get involved with a mad captain of the Chilean navy. The story has a lot of action and suspense but it is all for naught. The story does not finish with this novel that has an ending reminiscent of the Twilight Zone or R. L. Stine novels.<br />Out of all the Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child novels this one is definitely the weakest link. The characters are complete stereotypes that we do not learn much about until it is too late. Some of the characters previous acts are put into question that are not particularly cleared up. Sam MacFarlane had a falling out with Nestor Masangkay in the past and the story is not clear. The ending is open-ended leaving a chance for a sequel to pop up. It might answer some questions or not, only the authors will know. Try reading their latest work THE CABINET OF CURIOSITIES. It makes up for this one.	2002-07-08
US	53045954	R3BVBB32RF3T7M	0312970773	23220850	A Likeness In Stone	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Amazing debut	Twenty years ago Detective Chief Inspector Bill Driver was investigating the disappearance of Helena Warner. During the course of his investigation Driver was convinced that the girl was murdered and that her friends were protecting her killer. Due to lack of evidence the case was filed away.<br />Now, in the last few days, a pair of divers go inside the Marshfield Reservoir looking for treasures left by the former town residents that the lake now displaced. What they find is the body of Helena Warner hidden inside an old wardrobe. This opens up an old can of worms and it brings unwanted memories to the people who were close to Ms. Warner.<br />Throughout the novel the author shows how some of the characters were affected by Helena's disappearance. She does that by delving into the character's past and demonstrating how it affected them in the present. Some of them have been able to move on, others are still living in the past. The reopening of the investigation will bring a sense of closure to the main suspect who has been keeping a secret for many years. This character will be shell-shocked once he learns the truth. A LIKENESS IN STONE is a great debut novel by a promising author and this book deserves all the accolades it gets.	2002-06-24
US	53045954	R1XD5GYI25CEGT	006092859X	633681133	A Brother's Blood: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Lingering past	Libby Pelletier has lived in Sheshuncook, Maine all of her life and has no intention of moving. She is taking care of her sick brother who was recently discharge from the Veterans Administration Hospital. Her brother has had problems with alcohol for many years and has not recuperated from his mothers abandonment over fifty years ago. Libby is going to do what is necessary to take care of her brother. Their lives will be altered forever when a stranger comes into town.<br />During World War II this logging town has served as a POW camp for German soldiers. The prisoners are forced to work at Libbys fathers logging mill if they wanted to be fed. Mr. Pelletier treated the Germans well and the feelings were reciprocated. The only incident that occurred during the Germans incarceration involved an escaped prisoner. He was found a few days later drowned in a nearby lake. Nobody gave much thought to the incident until the Germans brother comes to town after all those years trying to find answers. At first Libby is apprehensive but then feels that if it were her brother she would like to know what happened. There are a group of people in town who do not want the truth to be revealed and they will do whatever it takes to keep it a secret. They threaten and hurt Libby and her family but her determination does not wane. She is going to investigate till the very end even if the truth might kill her.<br />White introduces the reader to a story where the wounds from the past can still linger in the present. His characters are real people facing real lives and tough choices. The past is what made Libby and we get to see that through her actions and some flashbacks. The author gives you a story that stays with you even after having finished the novel. A book that stays with you is one that others can savor.	2002-06-18
US	53045954	RGFV4HLJUKDVY	0553800957	928039507	The Interrogation	Books	5	1	3	N	N	My first Thomas H. Cook book, it will not be the last one.	It is 1952 and the Miranda warnings are still about two decades away from being implemented. Albert Jay Smalls is being sustained by the police in suspicion with the strangling murder of a child named Anna Lake. The homeless man has been seen in the vicinity of the victim at the park so the cops take him in for questioning. The police have twelve hours to find evidence against Mr. Smalls or be forced to let the suspect loose. Detectives Jack Pierce and Norman Cohen are responsible for interrogating Mr. Smalls. They are both convinced that they have the right man but when morning comes their lives will be irrevocably changed.<br />Thomas H. Cook knows how to attract reader interest by creating this haunting story. The murder of a child will always affect everyone around including the cops investigating the case. Pierce and Cohen have a personal stake in solving this murder. The author demonstrates this by going inside the main characters psyches and showing what is inside. Cook enhances the experience by introducing other people that have a tangential link to the crime. Among them is Eddie Lambrusco, a garbage man, who is forced to work on a night his daughter is sick and home alone; Chief Burke is at the hospital keeping a deathwatch over his drug-addicted son; and a petty criminal is running a fencing operation. All these characters have a purpose within the novel and the author does an excellent job in integrating the stories into its satisfying conclusion. THE INTERROGATION is a good novel that should not be missed. It is no wonder that Thomas H. Cook is one of the best mystery novelists of the United States.	2002-06-17
US	53045954	R38GSPVB8SYGH5	1852427159	50954136	A Firing Offense (A Five Star Title)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not my cup of tea	George Pelecanos's novel A FIRING OFFENSE introduces private detective-in-the-making, Nick Stefanos. Nick is a thirty-something advertising director for Nutty Nathan's, an electronics chain store. He is responsible for buying advertising space from newspapers and radio stations and providing the necessary copy and art for the store's ads. He is good at his job even though he feels he is at a dead end. This changes when he meets James Pence.<br />James Pence is searching for his grandson, Jimmy Broda, who used to work at one of the Nutty Nathan's in Washington, D.C. He has been gone for three weeks and no one has heard from him. He is hoping that Nick might be able to find out what happened to Jimmy. Nick feels a certain kinship to Broda and he feels that he needs to try to find him. Nick goes to work at the store Jimmy used to work for and gets involved in a drug-smuggling operation.<br />Pelecanos's tries to show the gritty side of Washington, D.C by focusing on the youth who live and work in the city. The employees at Nutty Nathan's show contempt and disrespect for the customers they serve. They lie and trick them and get drunk and stoned during business hours and they find ways to screw their customers. Nick gets involved with skinheads and the punk culture as it is in the early nineties when the story takes place. This book might not be every person's cup of tea but it takes more than one book to achieve a following.	2002-06-17
US	53045954	R15VHCR3WQG1RD	1569472564	120001981	The Vault	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Great Book	Peter Lovesey writes an excellent novel where he integrates several story lines into one complete and satisfying whole. In the English town of Bath, bones are found in a vault wall right under the Roman spas. DS Peter Diamond is sent to investigate what appears to be a cold case since the bones have been buried there for over two decades. He is not confident that he will be able to solve the mystery but he is going to try. Joe Dougan, an American English professor, is visiting Bath to fulfill his literary quest. He is so obsessed with literature that he is trying to track down the former home of author Mary Shelley where Frankenstein was supposed to be written. He is relentless in his quest and he attracts unwanted attention. Somebody has been hiding a secret for over twenty years and he is willing to kill in order to keep it a secret.<br />Lovesey knows how to entertain the reading by bringing in humorous characters that are acting some form of stereotype. The author also provides several red herrings that are meant to distract the police. When the story reaches its unexpected conclusion one can appreciate how well the author structure the plot by leaving no loose ends. Peter Lovesey's book was fun to read. It will not be my last.	2002-06-14
US	53045954	R2EFOGG16ZOZFO	0671011375	466385534	Death du Jour (Temperance Brennan Novels)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	No deja vu here	Forensic anthropologist Tempe Brennan is back in Kathy Reichs's second novel. While working on a special project in Montreal, Dr. Brennan is asked for her help at an arson investigation to try to identify the remains of the deceased. Tempe will see a gruesome scene that is only going to get worse. She will be facing an apocalyptic cult that might have a hold on her sister, Harry.<br />There is not much to say for this novel. The author relies heavily on coincidences as well as plot conveniences to tell the story. Every single body that this doctor investigates in the book will be related to the Montreal arson investigation. The author makes sure that Tempe meets all the principals in the case so that she can solve the crime. If one wanted something this simplified, they would just watch MURDER, SHE WROTE. This book was disappointing after a strong start with DEJA DEAD.	2002-06-12
US	53045954	R1LMSZCPKK3EM2	0449005909	38926947	Nightshade	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Unexpected twists	For the last ten years of Joan Hapgood's life has been going well. She is happily married to Eric who has accepted her son, Matt, as one of his own. Everything changes forever when Joan's mother, Emily Moore, moves in with them. Emily is suffering from the advanced stages of Alzheimer's disease. It has caused her to be completely paranoid as well as obsessed with the return of her favorite daughter, Cynthia, who has been dead for at least a decade. Ms. Moore's behavior is very abusive and it causes a rift in the family.<br />Matt's life is taking a turn for the worse every day. He turned from a popular jock to a social outcast almost overnight. He is accused of shooting his stepfather, Eric and suspected for the disappearance of Kelly Conroe, Matt's girlfriend. Emily is not being helpful toward Joan. She is constantly belittling her and claims that she has been talking to Cynthia for the last few nights. Matt also believes to have seen the ghost of his dead aunt but he cannot explain it.<br />John Saul brings in another story with twist and turns together with the requisite creep factor. He knows how to startle his audience and he does a good job of it. The surprises in this book are unexpected and welcome. The past plays an important part in the story and no matter how many times one tries to escape, it will always catch up with you.	2002-06-10
US	53045954	R1W519S8MOWYDQ	0743221990	736731828	The Stone Monkey: A Lincoln Rhyme Novel (Lincoln Rhyme Novels)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Better than THE EMPTY CHAIR, that's for sure.	In Lincoln Rhyme's latest novel he is helping the FBI and the INS to track a hired killer and human smuggler known as `The Ghost'. Rhyme tracks the assassin to a Chinese freighter that is bringing two dozen illegal aliens to the United States. When the Ghost finds himself cornered he blows up the ship and manages to escape. He does not want any survivors and kills anyone he can find. The lucky ones manage to pass by the Ghost and escape to Chinatown. The killer cannot let them live and he will use every single connection he has to kill them.<br />At first the Ghost's motivation for killing the undocumented survivors is elusive. It does not make much sense throughout the story. It is not until the end of the story that Lincoln Rhyme and his assistant, Amelia Sachs, pulls a rabbit out of the hat and manages to explain everything. Deaver brings in his trademark twist that gives the book its satisfying conclusion. The author does a good job with his characters by adding more dimensions to them in each particular book. The focus in this novel is with Amelia who is concerned about Lincoln as well as her health. She befriends one of the refugees who helps her come to terms with some of her issues. Deaver always brings something new to his series that is always appreciated. One should also try Deaver's stand alone novels like A MAIDEN'S GRAVE for the serious reader or THE DEVIL'S TEARDROP for fans of the hard boiled mystery. Whatever the case, it is always a treat.	2002-06-10
US	53045954	R29Q1QNNLF9AS7	0671519204	523761395	Diagnosis Dead: A Mystery Writers of America Anthology	Books	4	1	1	N	N	OK	This collection of short stories is about people that are not involved directly with law enforcement who try and help to solve crimes. Sometimes it is good to read a short story anthology to familiarize yourself with authors who might not be on the best seller list. Most of the stories are fairly average and do not really stick out. <br />The best story in the collection is John L. Breen's Four Views of Justice. The author takes a page from Faulkner and writes a story told by five separate characters all in the first person. Mr. Breen pulls it off brilliantly. Other short stories to watch out for are 'The Bad Boyz Klub' by Doug Allyn and 'The Oath' by Marilyn Wallace.	2002-06-07
US	53045954	R31473PSG2A40H	0380726297	516722500	Sacred	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A great read	After the events of DARKNESS, TAKE MY HAND, Patrick Kenzie and Angela Gennaro close up their private detective agency in order to recuperate. Angie is grieving for the death of her ex-husband and Patrick wants to give her as much time as she needs to regroup. <br />Billionaire Trevor Scott is a desperate man who does not like to wait. He is desperately searching for his daughter who has gone missing for several weeks now. He had hired Jay Becker, Patrick Kenzie's mentor, to find Desiree. Mr. Becker does his job and when he is ready to report to Mr. Scott he disappears. Trevor kidnaps Angie and Patrick since they were not taking his calls or accepting any new cases. He tells them that he is dying and he needs to see his daughter one last time. Mr. Scott believes that Desiree is still grieving from the death of her mother as well as her boyfriend so that she alienated herself from her family. He also tells them about Jay's disappearance. Patrick and Angie are intrigued and take the case. They forgot only one thing. Just like in most mystery novels, the client does not tell the private investigators the truth and that is just the case here.<br />What follows is a roller coaster ride that sends Kenzie and Gennaro to a cult, a fraud scheme, and warped family values. These two classic characters are witty and a joy to read. Lehane takes them out of their Dorchester neighborhood in Boston and sends them to sunny Florida. They hate it because they do not know anybody in town. It will make the job of finding Desiree and Jay a bit harder but they manage. Once they find Ms. Stone the reader learns that she has a lot of issues with Daddy. She will do whatever it takes to get even. This novel had one of the best endings in which all the villains get their just desserts. You cannot help yourself in rooting for Angela. Patrick then decides what to do with the crooks with a devious plan.<br />This book is second best to GONE, BABY, GONE, and it is highly recommended. Bubba even makes an appearance on this novel before having to spend a year in jail.  He is always a hoot. If you have never met Bubba Rogowski now is the time. You do not want him to come over to your house to introduce himself.	2002-06-06
US	53045954	R1UN4VEQMQXS0	1570719713	169069034	First Lady: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Impressive	Michael Malone brings back Police Chief Cuddy Mangum and Lt. Justin Savile V to investigate a rash of murders in the town of Hillston, North Carolina. An unknown assailant is killing young women and leaving taunting messages to the police chief and his lieutenant. Things get a bit worse when it appears that a popular rock singer is the next victim of the killer the press has dubbed Guess Who. When it turns out that it was not the singer but somebody else the town council demands results from the local police department.<br />Mr. Malone does an excellent job in telling this story. He pays attention to every single one of his characters and each one of them brings an element to the plot. The characters range from the politician who is obstructing justice, the policewoman who wants to be there for her Chief but also there for her niece, and the news reporter who loses her job after one of her stories prove to be false. The reader gets to know each player in this book intimately and gets to laugh and cry together with the protagonists. The plot is well executed and a joy to read. Malone does not concentrate solely on the Guess Who killer but also on the town's day to day. The author has a great grasp of language and makes the story interesting at all times. This is my first Michael Malone novel and it will not be my last.	2002-06-06
US	53045954	R1VU2QJ1HS505Z	0399148639	786303546	Mortal Prey	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Clara's back	This novel marks the return of hired assassin, Clara Rinker who made her debut in CERTAIN PREY. She has retired for the last few years and is living a happy life with her lover, Paulo. Somebody is still interested in Clara and sends a team to eliminate her but instead they kill her boyfriend and her unborn child. Clara knows of only five people who would want her dead and she is going to track each one and make sure they are dead. They took her last chance at happiness and she is not the forgiving type. Nobody is going to get on her way.<br />Lucas Davenport is back and ready for action. He faced Clara once before and he is ready to do it again. After all these years he still remembers her. He knows and understands how this hitwoman was created and all he feels is sympathy for her. He wants to help her because he does not want anyone else to get hurt. Clara does not care at this point as she relentlessly tracks her prey.<br />In the thirteenth novel of the series, Sandford appears to be taking the books to a new direction. Davenport's boss is leaving the police department and wants him to join her; Del and Sherrill have minimal roles in the book; Weather is pregnant and engage to Lucas; and Davenport is now investigating crimes outside of Minneapolis. The story's conclusion is disappointing. It almost appears that the author is trying to clean the slate with regards to his main character. Hopefully, this will be a change for the better but only time will tell.	2002-05-29
US	53045954	R2OWBAJ80L26JO	078686804X	84738703	Black Water	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Wow	T. Jefferson Parker's books just keep getting better and better. After having won the Best Novel Edgar Award for SILENT JOE, he provides another great work with BLACK WATER.<br />Merci Rayborn returns after the roller coaster events that transpired on her last novel, RED LIGHT. The police force is being restructured after Merci uncovered a group of corrupt cops. The force is divided by her actions and she has nowhere else to turn except to her partner, Paul Zamorra. They are both united in tragedy and it will take something more than a police scandal to separate them. She is struggling as a single mother who is trying to make the world a safer place for her son since losing her lover in THE BLUE HOUR. Zamorra is still reeling from his wife's death from terminal illness. <br />Archie Wildcraft is a young police officer who has had a good life. He is married to the love of his life, Gwen and is living comfortably on some investments he made. His world turns upside down on his wife's birthday when an intruder comes into their home, shoots Gwen and leaves Archie fighting for his life. The police suspects that Officer Wildcraft got injured after a botched murder/suicide but Rayborn and Zamorra are not convinced. Archie is unable to defend himself since the attack left him with partial amnesia where the only thing he remembers is the love he had for his wife. He is losing his recollections of his wife, so before it disappears in the black waters of his mind he will find out what really happened.<br />Parker writes a touching and heartbreaking story that touches every one of his characters. Merci is the struggling heroine in the story who is full of self-doubts. Every time she is down the author finds a way to lift her spirits using her son. Archie is a tragic hero. His mind is slipping but the love for his wife is so powerful that he goes into extraordinary efforts to show it. The crime in the story is eventually resolved but it is not the main thing in the book - it's the characters. T. Jefferson Parker knows how to bring his characters alive and he surpasses himself with SILENT JOE and with this magnificent novel.	2002-05-25
US	53045954	R23TD04RLI0HRQ	0345452704	457341957	Dying to Please	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Weak	Sarah Stevens is a butler working for retired judge, Lowell Roberts. She also moonlights as his bodyguard after he has received several unspecified threats. One night a couple of burglars break into the judge's house hoping for an easy score. Sarah thwarts them and the police come to pick up the crooks.<br />The next day there are news reporters who are interested in doing a feature of Sarah, the female butler. Sarah is reluctant to this until the judge convinces her to do an interview. Once the report is done, Sarah is deluged by offers to work at other people's home. Sarah is happy with her job and she wants to continue until the judge's lifetime where she will afterward travel around the world. Somebody wants Sarah all to himself and do whatever it takes, even if it includes killing her employers.<br />Ms. Howard started the novel with an interesting concept but once she is done she lets the story drift. The author makes a point of demonstrating what made Ms. Stevens the strong woman she is today, but when the going gets tough she lets a man save her -mainly police detective, Thompson Cahill. This is where the whirlwind romance starts with a determined detective trying to seduce her. He does everything with her from stargazing, practicing target shooting, and participating in a mutual strip wrestling match. We learn everything in their love life while leaving the main story adrift. Once it gets back on track it is too late.<br />Sarah is kidnapped easily by her stalker. He then humiliates and overpowers her turning her pathetic. Once the case is over she searches a way to get her strength back but but by then it just turns into an old cliche.	2002-05-25
US	53045954	R1ZQAQZUNAVZ5L	1551668351	659497798	Split Second (Maggie O'Dell Novels)	Books	2	2	6	N	N	Ridiculous follow-up	At the end of A PERFECT EVIL serial killer Albert Stucky escapes police custody after getting assistance from the Platte City kidnapper. Profiler and FBI Agent Maggie O'Dell is given menial duties in order for the Bureau to find Stucky. This book introduces Agent R. J. Tully, another profiler sent to work on this case alone and later with Agent O'Dell's assistance.<br />Ms. Kava expects the reader to dismiss many leaps of logic in order to enjoy this book. Maggie is recently divorced from her husband and is now living on her own. Stucky tracks her down and stalks her endlessly avoiding detection. Every woman that interacts with Maggie becomes a victim of Stucky and wind up completely brutalized. This is a bit hard to swallow since the author also has Albert performing tasks. He makes him seem a bit ubiquitous and ever knowing. This is not how she portray Stucky at end. This book was a big let down.	2002-05-25
US	53045954	RZ528YKLJAUX7	0425183769	569781050	Line of Vision	Books	4	1	1	N	N	First effort	Marty Kalish is an investment banker in love with Rachel Reinhardt, a married woman. Every Thursday night he would hide outside her home and stare into her window where she performs a weekly striptease. Marty is always looking forward to those nights where he can see Rachel in all her glory. On the last night he finds Rachel fully dressed. She is seen arguing with her husband, Derrick. One thing leads to another and Dr. Reinhardt starts to hit Rachel. Marty says he could not take it anymore and goes to her defense. The story is purposely ambiguous at this point leaving the reader to wonder, what really happened?<br />Ellis relies on the first-person present tense to relate the story. In this case this is Marty Kalish's story. The only thing one can't help but wonder -is he telling the truth? Is there a real relationship between Rachel and him? Is he a stalker? These are the questions readers ask themselves as they try to unravel the story.<br />Marty is subsequently arrested and he goes into the trial. It is here where the reader gets to learn more about the life of Mr. Kalish as well as his personality. He is arrogant and full of himself for which the reader will feel little sympathy for him. The case then has its requisite twist and turns until it's final conclusion.<br />Ellis won the 2002 Edgar Award for Best First Novel. The story is a noble effort with this type of narrative; however there are other authors who pull it off successfully. The first is Tom Savage's VALENTINE and SCAVENGER; the Grand Mistress is Agatha Christie with the classic works ENDLESS NIGHT and THE MURDER OF ROGER ACKROYD. Ellis writes an entertaining novel but his next book will show if he can still pull it off.	2002-05-25
US	53045954	RS4ESN3XLUX30	0671042262	971468860	The Blue Nowhere: A Novel	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Eh!	Wyatt Gillette is a computer hacker serving a three-year sentence for his transgressions. He is recruited by the Computer Crimes Unit to try to find a serial killer hacker who goes by the name of Phate.<br />Phate is a computer wizard who knows everything there is to know about cyberspace and then more. He uses his skills to track overconfident computer users and leading them to a trap. Once he has them snared Phate slices and dices his victims with his trusty knife. What makes him even more powerful is his cohort-in-crime, Shawn. Shawn can be almost anywhere tracking every source of information and sending it to Phate. This accomplice's identity is kept secret throughout the book until the shocking showdown between Wyatt and Shawn.<br />The book is full of twists and turns and makes for an entertaining read but that is about it. The material in the novel is very dated making it difficult to reprint in the near future with the way technology evolves. The book makes an OK beach read but there are better Jeffery Deaver novels. Try THE DEVIL'S TEARDROP, A MAIDEN'S GRAVE, or HELL'S KITCHEN.	2002-05-25
US	53045954	RMXN13APQ46N1	0425184234	814475128	A Small Death in Lisbon	Books	2	2	6	N	N	Overrated	Robert Wilson creates two separate and disparate story lines that take too long to get to the point. It is not until the last fifty or so pages that everything start to make a form of sense.<br />The novel begins with the discovery of the dead body of Caterina Oliveira. Ze Coelho will investigate the case with the assistance of another police officer named Carlos Pinto. Coelho is a respected lawman and he will do everything in his power to find out who killed this teenage girl. During his investigation he discovers that Caterina lived a double life. Could this be a factor to her death?<br />The second story line takes place sixty years in the past during the beginnings of World War Two. Klaus Felsen has just been recruited by the SS to go to Portugal and try to acquire wolfram (tungsten) from the Portuguese mines to ship to the Third Reich. The Nazis will use this metal to reinforce their armored tanks and to make bullets. The plot takes several decades to relate and it flips back and forth to the story line. One has to be fully determined to read the entire novel in order to see the relevance but by then one does not really care. The conclusion is disappointing when one has great expectations for this work.<br />The author concentrates too much on visual imagery that he forgets the story. Several of the scenes were redundant and the characters have no real depth. They will be portrayed one way at the beginning of the novel only to have them do a complete one-eighty on their personalities. The best example of this is the way Coelhos daughter is portrayed  from an innocent teenage girl to a rebellious child. Where did that come from? The author should concentrate on writing one story and sticking to it instead of making it up as the story goes. The book is a big continuity problem with no end in sight.	2002-05-25
US	53045954	R3J7R55601LTF6	1551668246	870830835	A Perfect Evil (Maggie O'Dell)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Fun read but that's it	Three months ago, the small town of Platte City, Nebraska breathed a sigh of relief. Death row inmate, Ron Jeffrys was executed for the murder of three local children. Before he dies, Jeffrys proclaims his innocence. He insists that he is responsible for one death, not three.<br />Several months later, a boy is kidnapped and found dead a few days later. His death is similar to the murders Ronald Jeffrys stood accused and someone is copycatting or is he? Sheriff Nick Morrelli was convinced that his father, the former sheriff, captured the right man. Now he is not so sure. The only thing he knows is that he is way over his head and he is going to need help.<br />Maggie O'Dell is a troubled FBI profiler assigned to the case. She is reeling from her last investigation which involved tracking serial killer, Albert Stucky. Stucky got the better of her scarring her for life in the physical as well as mental sense before he was captured in Miami, Florida. Agent O'Dell screwed up big time and now she is hoping that this case will prove to be her redemption.<br />Morrelli had a big stake in the case when his nephew is kidnapped. He is hunting high and low for the killer and he has a deep suspicion as to his identity.<br />Ms. Kava provides an entertaining novel if you are willing to dismiss two things - a waterproof cell phone and the ineptitude of Agent O' Dell. The rest of the book is just a pleasure read. The kidnapper is easy to figure out. He is smart and resourceful always ready with a backup plan. He makes sure by the end of the novel to leave Ms. O'Dell with a small gift forcing the book to go into a sequel.	2002-05-25
US	53045954	R23NBTSZNSOWVG	044900399X	944702418	The Defense	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Kudos	Joseph Antonelli is a great defense lawyer. According to him he has not lost any case where the defendant was innocent and he has won every case where the defendant was guilty. Judge Leopold Rifkin feels that Antonelli needs a lesson in humility so he gives him a pro bono case.<br />Johnny Morel is accused of raping his twelve-year-old daughter, Michelle. The prosecution's case is weak and the chief prosecution witness is the girl's drug-addicted mother. Joseph wins the case but everything here is far from over. Several years later, Johnny is found murdered and his wife is the chief suspect. Antonelli does not defend her and she winds up serving a prison term. After she is released from serving her sentence she is found shot dead in the home of Judge Leopold Rifkin.<br />Buffa does a great job with character development and he keeps the story line moving. The Morels have a deep connection to the judge and unbeknownst to Antonelli, he also shares a connection with the victim. As Buffa's first novel it is a great start. One can see why he was nominated for his last paperback, THE JUDGMENT, an even better work.	2002-05-15
US	53045954	R1FI004RT7KQ5O	0061014249	583246384	Bait	Books	1	1	3	N	N	Don't get 'Hook'-ed	Meg Gillis is a former cop working at a small Beverly Hills security firm. She receives a call from a Mr. Houratanian who demands to speak to her partner Mike. Meg has not heard from Mike in days and is afraid to learn what he has cooked up now. In order to distract herself from her thoughts she offers to help. The caller lets her know that his son has been kidnapped and he does not want to involve the police. Once she arrives to the scene she discovers that the police had already arrived and Mr. Houratanian has no idea what is going on. He says that no kidnapping has taken place and that all this was a mistake. Meg should have just ignored the situation but instead she decides to put her two cents and try to figure out what is going on.<br />Ms. Songer's character is very annoying. The author considers herself to be the next Virginia Woolf by having us learn everything through Meg's stream of consciousness. The reader is expected to catch up and the heck with everything else. One of the most perplexing scenes involve her mentioning a character named Josh. It is not until sixty pages later in the book that we learn that Josh is her stepson. Is it so hard to say `my stepson, Josh' when first introducing him.<br />The title of the book is misleading. It is not until three-quarters of the book that any reference is made in using Meg Gillis as a lure. The Bait here is getting people to purchase her book.	2002-05-15
US	53045954	RBE4T3IVRS56Y	0743235150	796500127	Everything's Eventual: 14 Dark Tales	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Consider yourself warned	EVERYTHINGS EVENTUAL is a collection of short stories and novellas that were published in other media. These stories have appeared in other forms such as articles in THE NEW YORKER, horror and fantasy anthologies, audio books, CD-ROMs and the Internet.<br />The stories are scattered in no particular order. One can see the serious side of Mr. King with works like Luckey Quarter and the understated The Man in the Black Suit, the 1996 O. Henry Award winner for Best Short Story. There is also something for the horror fans like 1408, a story of a haunted hotel room, and for gruesome humor fans there is Lunch at the Gotham Caf, a story of a divorcing couple escaping the wrath of a crazed maitre d.<br />Fans might appreciate having all of these stories collected in one book; others will feel cheated since there is no new material here before the release of Stephen Kings latest novel FROM A BUICK 8. King knows how to attract readers and this book is no exception.	2002-05-15
US	53045954	R1A3B8J9325EA8	0345414462	897263052	Angle of Impact	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Viewpoint disguised as a novel	Dana Svenssen is a corporate lawyer who has a very bad day. A Pennsteel helicopter has crashed with a private plane right over Alpine Valley, an amusement park. What makes this bad is that Dana was talking on her cell phone to her client who was in the helicopter. What makes it even worse is that her two daughters were at a field trip at the amusement park.<br />She wastes no time and rushes to Alpine Valley to look for her children. Once she ascertains that they are fine she gets to work. Dana starts collecting evidence and taking pictures of the site for the class action lawsuit Pennsteel is likely to face. There is someone who does not want her to succeed and it will do whatever it takes to stop her. The story gets intense and has an O. Henry twist at the end of the novel.<br />When the story reaches its resolution the author uses the novel as an editorial for class action lawsuits. She writes how big companies are forced to make budget costs in order to pay for lawyers defending them in all kind of lawsuits. Ms. MacDougal makes some interesting points but all this rhetoric loses the entertainment value the book might have had.	2002-05-15
US	53045954	RNITSZ88S6Y2T	0786010541	870472751	Dark Of The Moon	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Good series start	Louis Kincaid, a former Detroit police officer, moved back to Black Pool, Mississippi to take care of his dying mother. He took a temporary job as a deputy in order to continue his law enforcement career. During one of his patrols he finds the body of a black man that was lynched approximately thirty years ago. Most people in town want to keep the past buried by making him a John Doe; Kincaid wants to identify the victim and give him justice.<br />This is the first novel for the sister team of P. J. Parrish. Their main character is a conflicted young man with a strong sense of responsibility. Deputy Kincaid is going to explore Black Pool's dark history in order to find out the hidden facts. He will defy the town's authority and discover the truth even if it costs him his life. Once he starts there is no turning back.<br />The authors do a great job with characterization. They show the town's diversity by including the town's rich white people all the way to the poor African Americans. There are times that they go overboard showing the community's racism that it almost falls into a stereotype. One dislikes the characters before one even knows them. The story is thought provoking and a good start to the series. DEAD OF WINTER follows DARK OF THE MOON and does a good job of it.	2002-05-15
US	53045954	R72EV62Y54A2J	0425183971	731144234	Reunion in Death	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A guilty pleasure	Julianne Dunne has been a model inmate for the last ten years. She has kept her nose clean and stayed out of trouble. Once the parole board releases her she returns to do what she does best  poisoning. Her modus operandi would be to research successful businessmen who were recently widowed or divorced. She would then befriend them, marry them, and then kill them in order to collect their assets. Now that she has been set free she intends to get revenge on the police officer that arrested her  Lt. Eve Dallas.<br />Eve has just returned from a three-week vacation. She is now calm, rested, and ready to [fight]. She returns by investigating a series of murders in which rich men are being poisoned and there is no motive that connects them. Once she finds who the culprit is, she is back in business and the manhunt begins. Eve is afraid that the murderer is going to target her husband, Roarke. Dallas is going to have to rely on her own personal strength as well as face her dark past if she wants to defeat this killer. There are times when the plot gets a bit intense but the author knows how to make it fun. You can bet that Eve will find Julianne. You can be sure that there will be a showdown near the end of the book that will have the reader cheering.<br />J. D. Robb (a.k.a. Nora Roberts) brings back all her favorite characters and lets them grow a bit more. Eve lets Peabody, her aide, work a cold case; the reader gets to see a personal side of Dr. Mira, the police psychiatrist; and we get to see more of Eves past as well as her relationship with her Irish soul mate and husband, Roarke. There are times the book gets to be mushy but that is one of the reasons one enjoys Ms. Robertss sci-fi, romance, police procedural series. The other reason is the humor she puts with Eves relationships with the supporting characters. It is incredible how this prolific author always keep bringing something new to this series to make the reader want more.	2002-05-13
US	53045954	R1JRLSIJELFOEH	0446527297	269463589	The Millionaires	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Meltzer recycled	Oliver and Charles Caruso are brothers that work at an exclusive New York City bank where you need a minimum of ten million dollars to open an account. According to federal law - at least in the book - if an account has been inactive for more than seven years the money gets transferred and becomes property of the United States government. While performing his job, Oliver finds a three-million-dollar account belonging to a Martin Duckworth. After careful research he discovers that Mr. Duckworth is dead and there are no heirs to be notified. Who is going to miss the money? When he confides to his brother what he found Shep, an agent from the Secret Service, discovers him. Shep agrees not to report them if they give him a cut of the profits.<br />After careful planning to cover their tracks Ollie transfers the money to an offshore account and all hell breaks loose. Rogue Secret Service agents shoot Shep and the Caruso brothers are running for their lives. When Oliver checks the balance in the account he finds there are three hundred and thirteen million dollars stashed instead of three million dollars. The Caruso brothers go to Florida, the last known address for Mr. Duckworth, and try to figure out what happened. Meltzer brings in a ridiculous conspiracy involving computer viruses, fraud, and Disney World. Was it so hard for the author to come up with a fictional theme park?<br />If you have read one Brad Meltzer novel you have read them all. They all have the same formula and except for some slight deviations they all turn out to be the same. A young and nave professional discovers a conspiracy. Instead of reporting it they decide to investigate and find out that it is something way over their heads. Anyone they get close too gets hurt or dies. Introduce a young woman who tries to help or hinder the hero with his dilemma. At the end of the novel the hero loses or quits his job and loses all traces of his former life. Why even bother?	2002-05-13
US	53045954	RE2Y75Q2Z9F91	0553802380	89887514	The Next Accident	Books	2	8	13	N	N	The reader is forgotten in this book	Former police officer Rainie Conner and FBI profiler Pierce Quincy are back in this sequel to last year's The Third Victim. In the previous novel we learn that Quincy's daughter, Amanda, is in a coma after a car accident. The circumstances involved in the accident are explained in the first chapter of the book. There is someone with a vendetta against Quincy and he is going to destroy anyone close to him. He manipulated the situation to cause her daughter to die in the car accident and he is planning for his next victim. Quincy is not convinced with the accident ruling and hires Rainie Conner who is now working as a private investigator. She works together with Quincy trying to save his surviving daughter, Kimberly. <br />The story is predictable, character development is weak, and the killer's victims should have worn a bull's eye on their foreheads. The reader knows which characters are going to die and the author just drags it on and on until the the merciful release is done. Here is an example. There is a conspiracy involved in the Quincy vendetta and one of them is this girl. She calls the conspirator who tells her that she is being watched by a private investigator hired by Rainie. She asks what should she do and he tells her not to worry. He is going to messenger her some chocolates for her to offer the investigator. 'Just sit down with him, tell him you know what he is doing and offer him a chocolate. If he does not take one make sure you eat one of the chocolates'. 'Are they poisoned?' she asks. 'Of course not!' he says. Suffice it to say she believes him and you can guess what happens next. <br />If you want to read a better novel with a similar plot device try Dennis Lehane's PRAYERS FOR RAIN. The mastermind is much cleverer than the one in this book. He does not insult the reader's intelligence, something Ms. Gardner might not be aware that she is doing. THE THIRD VICTIM is her better work.	2002-04-23
US	53045954	R1LS23KR10IUJB	0515132624	662895707	Headwind	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Automatic page grabber	This book grabs you from the very first page. Just as they were getting ready to depart EuroAir Flight 42 is told by ground control to stand by. One of the stewardesses finds out through a friend at the terminal that the Greek authorities are preparing to serve an international arrest warrant on one of its passengers, former U. S. President John Harris. Capt. Craig Dayton does not like what is about to transpire so he creates an international incident by taking off from the runway without air traffic control clearance. <br />Peruvian president, Alberto Miraflores has evidence that Harris ordered the death of Peruvian citizens while being president of the United States. Using the World Court system he manages to get a warrant that will force every country to extradite John Harris for the torture and deaths of Peruvian citizens. The president is unaware of giving the orders and retains the legal services of Jay Reinhart, an expert in international law. The flight crew races around the clock trying to find a safe place to land while Reinhart uses his legal expertise to figure out how to quash the World Court subpoena and find out the truth as to what happened in Peru. <br />Inspired by the news coverage of the extradition hearings for former Chilean Dictator Augusto Pinochet, Nance shows what can happen when a government goes too far in trying to punish foreign leaders. Every aspect of this book has been thoroughly researched in order to make this a realistic courtroom drama. Nance knows how to attract reader interest with his novels and this one is no exception. It is an edge of your seat thriller combined with a courtroom drama. What more could you ask for?	2002-04-23
US	53045954	R2WM1QZ94H04RE	0446525804	472682750	Last Man Standing	Books	3	14	16	N	N	Disappointed	FBI Agent Web London was a member of the FBIs Hostage Rescue Team Charlie. He is feeling survivors guilt after his team was decimated in an ambush leaving him the sole survivor. Web is not sure why he survived or why he froze before the ambush took place. In order to be able to make sense of it all he hires psychiatrist Claire Daniels to help him understand what happened. They uncover a conspiracy involving many players as well as a personal vendetta by one of them.<br />I read and enjoyed most of David Baldaccis novels except this one. The story dragged on for too long and I felt things could have resolved in fewer pages. There is too long a gap between characters and there were several setups in the novel which were a little too convenient. The book in itself has no ending. There is a conversation between Web and his psychiatrist in which he feels that he was betrayed. So he storms out. Will there be a sequel? Probably. Hopefully Baldaccis next work will be better and stronger. For anyone who has not read this author before I strongly recommend THE WINNER and THE SIMPLE TRUTH.	2002-04-23
US	53045954	R2U4MXPT6TMWJU	0679453067	668170725	Pursuit: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Great start but flounders in the end	Daniel Milliken is a well-known profiler who has successfully worked with the police on several important cases. One night he is asked to come to a restaurant where a massacre had just taken place. He noticed that things were not what they seemed. There were no stray shots taken in the restaurant and every single bullet used had hit a target. He is convinced that this was not a random act of violence and he tells the police that this appears to be a contract killing. The shooter enjoyed the carnage and had no compulsion on murdering innocent bystanders. <br />One of the victim's relatives is convinced that his son was the target and he is prepared to pay Milliken one million dollars for the identity of the killer. Milliken refuses the offer but gives him the number on someone who might be able to help. Roy Prescott is a former cop who does not play by the rules. He will do whatever is necessary to track this killer and make him pay for his crime. <br />The cat and mouse game is very intense for the first half of the book but afterwards the story begins to flounder. Prescott is relentless with his investigation. He manages to track the killer, taunt him and humiliate him. He treats the killer as a little boy hoping that he will make a mistake that will cause his undoing. When Prescott fails the first time he decides to find out who hired the killer in the first place. It is at this point when the story weakens. At the pace the story was going the reader is not interested in finding out the why of the massacre, they are just interested in Prescott capturing the killer. When the author tries to explain the circumstances of the crime the reader feels cheated. There are no clever surprises or cliffhangers. There is a showdown at the end of the novel but by then all the participants are prepared. They know what to expect and perform what they are supposed to do. Once the character's purpose is fulfilled the author has no more use for them and just lets them die. There isa strong sense of finality in the book that does not leave many options for the surviving characters.	2002-04-23
US	53045954	R1U1AVOHGBLE8G	051512950X	651999694	Straw Men	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Good thriller	Carmen DellaVecchio has been jailed for the last eight years for the alleged rape and attempted murder of police officer Teresa Harnett. It was her testimony that fingered DellaVecchio for the crime and sentenced him to life in prison. His attorney, Brenna Kennedy, sets him free after she finds indisputable DNA evidence proving that Carmen could not have committed the crime. Harnett is shocked by the revelation and begins to question everything that she went through.<br />Psychologist Jim Christensen is hired by Teresa to try to find out the truth in her fractured mind. She has not fully recovered from her injuries and is still suffering from partial amnesia. She is not confident with her memories and wonders if it has been tampered. Christensen is not convinced on her recollections and believes that she is hiding what really happened eight years ago. During the sessions Harnett confesses that for the last few days she has received threatening phone calls from someone who is not DellaVecchio but who knows the most intimate details of her rape. She is scared and afraid that she will be attacked again. It is not until she finds her old journals that the truth is slowly revealed. There is a conspiracy that cannot afford for Harnett to remember what is in her confused mind. They will do whatever it takes to make sure the truth never comes out and to silence her permanently. <br />Smith gives his book an interesting approach. Just when you think the story involves one thing it turns out to be something unrelated to the original situation. The twists and turns will keep the reader guessing until it reaches its satisfying conclusion.	2002-04-23
US	53045954	R1D7D4BTG7L01P	0553577190	693843982	The Mother Tongue	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Interesting story	Gale Grayson has moved back to the rural town of Statlers Cross, Georgia from England after her husband Tom's suicide. There are many issues she has to face and she is hoping that the time she spends back can be used in writing her memoirs. She returned with her daughter, Katie Pru and with her friend, Nadianna Jesup and her infant son. It seems that Gale had other adventures in Teri Holbrook's other novels but I have not read them. Scotland Yard Detective David Halford comes to visit Ms. Grayson to try and spend some time with her.<br />During her homecoming several people have moved to this Georgia town. Dr. Ron Goddard, an English linguist, came to Statlers Cross to study language and dialects from the remote town. The other newcomers are the Nguyen family who everyone looks at suspiciously. First of all, they do not speak very good English and second, they painted their home K-Mart Blue Light Special Blue. This is not welcome by the community and they are vocal about it. The big crime there is a triple homicide where two people including the son's mayor are gunned down in their car. In the backseat is Tuan Nguyen who is bound and shot. This crime and the immigrants ignite the small town prejudices in the town from the subtle local Monday's Woman's Group (the Monday Morning Militant Moms) to the redneck throwing Molotov cocktails at the Vietnamese home. There are times when the book gets to be a bit wordy but it does leave an impression of you. One does not discover the truth until the very end but I think it is easy to figure out. <br />I enjoyed Ms. Holbrook's novel and I intend to search for her previous novels when I get the chance. I wish I could fully recommend it but this book might turn off some people. The author introduces to many characters and it takes it a while to figure out who's who, there are several references to previous novels, and this is not what can be considered a quick read. However, she does an excellent job in showing small town sensitivities (as well as insensitivity) and it shows how one small assumption can be blown out of proportion. If you like Deborah Crombie's Lynley and Havers mysteries, you might want to give Ms. Holbrook a chance.	2002-04-11
US	53045954	R8GZY7FMB53OM	0553577190	693843982	The Mother Tongue	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Interesting story	Gale Grayson has moved back to the rural town of Statlers Cross, Georgia from England after her husband Tom's suicide. There are many issues she has to face and she is hoping that the time she spends back can be used in writing her memoirs. She returned with her daughter, Katie Pru and with her friend, Nadianna Jesup and her infant son. It seems that Gale had other adventures in Teri Holbrook's other novels but I have not read them. Scotland Yard Detective David Halford comes to visit Ms. Grayson to try and spend some time with her.<br />During her homecoming several people have moved to this Georgia town. Dr. Ron Goddard, an English linguist, came to Statlers Cross to study language and dialects from the remote town. The other newcomers are the Nguyen family who everyone looks at suspiciously. First of all, they do not speak very good English and second, they painted their home K-Mart Blue Light Special Blue. This is not welcome by the community and they are vocal about it. The big crime there is a triple homicide where two people including the son's mayor are gunned down in their car. In the backseat is Tuan Nguyen who is bound and shot. This crime and the immigrants ignite the small town prejudices in the town from the subtle local Monday's Woman's Group (the Monday Morning Militant Moms) to the redneck throwing Molotov cocktails at the Vietnamese home. There are times when the book gets to be a bit wordy but it does leave an impression of you. One does not discover the truth until the very end but I think it can be easy to figure out. <br />I enjoyed Ms. Holbrook's novel and I intend to search for her previous novels when I get the chance. I wish I could fully recommend it but this book might turn off some people. The author introduces to many characters and it takes it a while to figure out who's who, there are several references to previous novels, and this is not what can be considered a quick read. However, she does an excellent job in showing small town sensitivities (as well as insensitivity) and it shows how one small assumption can be blown out of proportion. If you like Deborah Crombie's Kincaid and James mysteries, you might want to give Ms. Holbrook a chance.	2002-04-11
US	53045954	R295U0HRIJNZSI	0671047515	821429650	Hell's Kitchen	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Bleak but excellent	John Pellam is a former stuntman and location scout filming an oral history of New York's Hell's Kitchen. While working on the documentary he meets Ettie Washington, a septuagenarian who lived in that New York City area for most of her life. They get together for several days a week where Pellam records Ettie's memories of life in Hell's Kitchen. One day on his way to see Ettie, John witnesses her building being engulfed by flames. Ettie manages to escape but gets arrested shortly thereafter on suspicion of arson and insurance fraud. The police have strong circumstantial evidence against Ms. Washington and they plan to indict her for the death of one of the building's tenants. Pellam is not convinced of her guilt and he will do everything in his power to prove her innocence.<br />During the course of his investigation he meets several characters that show life in Hell's Kitchen. Carol Wyandotte is a pessimistic social worker that does not have any hope for the youth living in that area. Roger McKennah is a real estate developer who wants to replace the tenements with new buildings. Sonny is a pyromaniac who is burning buildings all over Ettie's neighborhood for some mysterious motive that will be made clear later in the novel. There are other secondary characters that help bring the book to life, everything from Irish gangs to male prostitutes. Everyone has a story to tell and they make sure John hears all about it.<br />Jeffery Deaver (or William Jefferies) gives a bleak portrait of this infamous New York area. There is a sense of hopelessness and despair shown throughout the book. It has an interesting plot and it was just recently nominated for an Edgar Award for Best Paperback Mystery Novel. The author's work had certain twists and turns that surprised me as a reader. I strongly recommend this book but be warned, it is a downer. Hopefully the next book I read will lift my spirits.	2002-04-10
US	53045954	R3JW02U0SUY8AW	0399148469	24558712	Hunting Season	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Best Anna Pigeon novel	This is the latest installment in the Anna Pigeon, Park Ranger series. This book is like going back to an old friend and getting once again reacquainted. This is one of Nevada Barr's best novels and I recommend it to anyone discovering Ms. Pigeon for the first time.<br />In Ms. Barr's latest novel, Anna returns to her job as the District Ranger for the Natchez Trace, a gorgeous scenic route that goes from Memphis, Tennessee to Natchez, Mississippi. She encounters the same managerial problems she had with her staff in DEEP SOUTH and encounters another dead person. The body belongs to Doyce Barnette, brother of Raymond Barnette. Raymond is the town mortician as well as the leading candidate for new sheriff. Raymond is more concerned of his political aspirations instead of his brother. He is very secretive and does his best to impede the investigation. Anna has her hands full dealing with poachers, her married boyfriend, as well as someone trying to kill her. <br />I strongly recommend you read DEEP SOUTH before reading her latest work. There are some spoilers in HUNTING SEASON that might spoil the other Natchez Trace Anna Pigeon mystery. They are both good.	2002-04-08
US	53045954	R1LN0DY03ZR4M0	0786890037	908407552	Silent Joe	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Excellent	I read some of T. Jefferson Parker's books in the past and none of them have made any impact with me. SILENT JOE is his best novel and I am glad that it got the Edgar nomination for Best Novel of the Year.<br />This is the story of Joe Trona, a young man working as a jailer and as a jack-of-all-trades for Will Trona, his adoptive father as well as a local politician. When Joe was a baby his father physically disfigured him by throwing acid on his face. Due to the physical abuse he is separated from his family and put in a group home. Several years later he makes the acquaintance of Will Trona and his wife and is adopted shortly thereafter. Joe is very happy with his life, he has a job he likes, owns his home, and loves his family. Unfortunately at the beginning of the novel, his adoptive father is murdered right in front of him and he is going to do everything in his power to find out whom had his father killed and what was his motive.<br />Mr. Parker does an excellent job in showing Joe's innocence and naivete. This does not make the main character any weaker but stronger. He is always true to himself and will not do anything that it is out of character for him. He is trustworthy and very loyal. In this book there is a lot of supporting characters that help enhance the story line. This book is well written and I hope to see more of it in the future. I hope the author decides to bring Joe Trona back in a new novel or a short story. For someone who did not like Parker's previous work, I am looking forward to his next book.	2002-04-08
US	53045954	R2ZNAQECH22MQ8	0312981341	801031260	Reflecting the Sky: A Bill Smith/Lydia Chin Novel (Bill Smith/Lydia Chin Novels)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Wish I could say I loved it	This is my first Lydia Chin/Bill Smith book and I feel that I should have read some of Rozan's previous works in the series before tackling REFLECTING THE SKY. I have no complaints about the main characters. I was able to catch up as to who they are and their motivations. The problem was that this book was overly hyped to me and I just could not see what was so great about it.<br />Private Investigators Lydia Chin and Bill Smith are sent to Hong Kong in order to fulfill a bequest made to them by Grandfather Gao. They feel that there is something more to this mission that they are being told and find out that they are right. When they arrive to Hong Kong they are caught in the middle of a kidnapping case where two different groups are claiming responsibility for the actions. It appears that Harry Wei's nanny kidnapped him for reasons only known to her and later to the reader. Lydia and Bill will do everything in their power to rescue Harry even if it involves them getting involved with Chinese Triads, smugglers and tongs.<br />The story focuses on culture shock as Lydia Chin comes to China for the first time after living most of her life in Chinatown. We see the prejudice that Chinese people have on foreigners. This is not something exclusively Chinese but it is something we are seeing almost everyday in the news for other parts of the world. The author's descriptions are very vivid where it is easy for the reader to visualize the scenery. This book has its requisite twist and turns and the book had my attention. I just did not think it was that great. Hopefully I might change my mind in the future after I read some of S. J. Rozan's other works.	2002-04-08
US	53045954	R1AZPZYY6WDLMH	0451184386	797392006	The Weatherman	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Misleading but nevertheless good	The back copy of this paperback novel is very misleading. In it is says that a serial killer is loose in Minnesota and is obsessed with Channel 7 reporter, Andrea Labore. He is going to do everything in his power to make her a star even if it kills her. This premise sounds good unfortunately this is not the plot of the novel.<br />This is the story of three people: Rick Beanblossom, a scarred news producer who hides his deformed face behind a mask; Andrea Labore, a reporter from Channel 7 news who wants to become its newest anchorwoman; and Dixon Bell, the local weatherman who lives exclusively for the weather and is never wrong about his forecasts. Their lives intertwine as they work together in the newsroom and in the investigation of a serial killer that is murdering young professional women each time the seasons change. The story is complex and it encompasses several years.<br />Each one of these characters is carefully described and we get to see their strengths as well as their weaknesses. One of them is arrested for the Minnesota killings and another one is trying to prove his innocence. There are no clear-cut answers in this book. The reader does not know if the television weatherman is the killer or just the perfect patsy. This work is a character study more than a murder mystery. It works well with this book however there are times when it can become real tedious. This book lets you use your imagination for the book's resolution. Consider yourself warned if the paperback copy written at the rear leads you to read THE WEATHERMAN. You might be disappointed at the beginning but the plot becomes interesting.	2002-04-08
US	53045954	R1TLJ49Q1L1HAW	0679453040	787273382	Blood Money, A Jane Whitefield Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Fun, Fun, Fun	Jane Whitefield returns in what may be her last adventure. I will be sorry to see her go but I can understand what the author wants to accomplish. In this latest adventure, Jane is retired from the guide business and just wants to be a happy housewife with her husband, Dr. Carey McKinnon. She is a one-woman witness protection program who knows how to hide people permanently and lead them to work new lives. She is `retired' but just like in the Godfather movies just as she gets out she gets dragged back in. In this case it involves Rita Shelford, a former hotel cleaning lady who is now running from the mob.<br />Bernie \\"The Elephant\\" Lupus has just died. He worked as a mob banker who does not use paper. He relies on his expansive photographic and eidetic memory to remember bank accounts and passwords. The mob is panicky because the only person Bernie ever trusted was Rita and they want to know what she knows and try to get some of their money back. After some false starts, Rita finds Jane and asks for her help. Unfortunately so does Bernie. News of his demise was greatly exaggerated.<br />Jane travels all over the country trying to hide Bernie and Rita. They also came up with the plan to take all of the mob's money and give everything away to charity. Once the mob finds out they will do whatever it takes to protect their interests. There is a lot of suspense and action in this story. You do not have to read previous novels to understand this one but I guarantee that once you read BLOOD MONEY you will try to find her other adventures. Thomas Perry's other novels are just as good and I suggest you give them a shot.	2002-04-08
US	53045954	R1F4MX89EGEAWE	0688174574	695846125	Blindsighted: A Novel (Dr. Sara Linton)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Good debut	This is Karin Slaughter's first published novel and it is pretty good. The characters are realistic and down-to-earth where one can easily identify with them. Sara Linton works as a pediatrician in a small town in Georgia. She is also the town's coroner who is going to have a very busy week. She discovers the mutilated body of Sybil Adams in the local diner and a few days later finds another victim placed in the hood of her car. What makes this case a little more complicated is that her ex-husband, Jeffrey Tolliver, is the town sheriff who is investigating the assaults.<br />One thing that makes this work interesting is the inclusion of Lena Adams, the sister of the first victim. Lena works for the sheriff as a police deputy and she is going to have a hard time with this case. During the last couple of years she has withdrawn from her twin sister and had not talked much to her. It took her death to show how much her sister's death affected her.<br />All of the major characters are hiding either a personal secret or a weakness that helps to enhance the story line. During the week that the case takes place several of the characters will go though some life altering changes which in the end will improve on their lives. The identity of the serial killer is predictable once you get to know who are the characters in the book. BLINDSIGHTED is a good debut for a promising new author and I will be looking forward to her next book.	2002-04-08
US	53045954	R3IR37OBM1ZV1K	1888451165	94545038	Adios Muchachos	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Disappointing	This book was a big disappointment to me. The first third of the book is interesting but afterwards it all goes downhill from there. At the beginning of the book we meet Alicia, Havana's best bicycle hooker. She is a professional who has mastered the con and just goes through the paces looking for her next customer. She seduces her victims by riding her bicycle near their cars and when she catches them staring, she moves in for the kill. She has an `accident' and the victim immediately rush to her aid. Alicia takes pride in her work and she has her routine down pat and we get to learn how she works. We see how she prepares for every scenario, how her mother helps her daughter, and how she always refuses taking money from her clients. \\"What kind of girl do you think I am,\\" she tells her escorts. She knows of better ways to get paid and we see it throughout the book. Alicia is happy with her life and she hopes one day to make the big score when she lands a rich man. Her life (and the reader's) changes once she meets Tom King. This is when the story begins to fail.<br />Mr. King is a con man who is trying to get Dutch interests to give him money to excavate Cuba's oceans. When things are going well for him he finds Alicia. Apparently he has studied Alicia before and he knows what she is all about. He lets her become the latest victim and he gets to see up close and personal how she works. He later offers her a deal, which she accepts, and it will help her do more for her craft and earn more money. It is not until Mr. King's employer dies that the comedy of errors begins. Alicia goes way over her head and participates in a fake kidnapping to disguise an accidental death. Chavarria spoils what he created with Alicia's character and it spoils the story. It was like reading a cross between THE CRYING GAME and WEEKEND AT BERNIE'S. Everything is resolved at the end and the status quo is brought back at a high cost. It was a promising start that just went astray.	2002-04-08
US	53045954	R3N6X5Y8D17BHV	0446609943	213222268	The Switch	Books	2	6	7	N	N	Author's deceit does not work well in this novel.	Melina and Gillian Lloyd are identical twin sisters who decide on a lark to switch places for one night. Melina is supposed to escort former astronaut Chief Hart to a special dinner honoring him. One of the sisters escorts him and they have a wonderful time, however, when the night is over one of the twins is brutally murdered.<br />Ms. Brown insults the reader by lying throughout the book when it does not even enhance the plot. One does not know if the twin is the right twin or if the twin is the twin pretending to be the twin pretending to be the twin. See how confusing this gets? If the author was honest with her readers or at least make the main character a bit ambiguous then the novel might be enjoyable.  Unfortunately, the author lies about the main character's identity that at the time it is actually revealed one does not even care. The characters are flat and caricatures of what they are supposed to be. There is a second story within the novel involving a cult who are kidnapping children born out of artificially inseminated mothers. The story is a bit ludicrous as well as disappointing.<br />	2002-03-25
US	53045954	R2R8NI04WNDOSH	0345426258	763358805	Hart's War	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of his best novels	Thomas Hart is a World War II navigator held as a prisoner of war in a German camp who prior to being in battle he was a law student at Harvard University. One day one of the prisoners is brutally killed by persons unknown. The accused is Lincoln Scott, a Tuskegee airman, who was a victim to the murdered man's taunts. Hart is given the duty of defending Scott in a military tribunal held inside the prison. This case is going to be very important to Hart since it is going to affect everyone involved at the camp.<br />Katzenbach does an excellent job with characterizations. You get to know every prisoner involved and get to know a little about his life story. The courtroom drama was well executed and I liked the way everything turns out at the end. You can appreciate how hard Katzenbach researched his material for this novel. He made the P.O.W. camps interesting and I got to learn a lot about the Tuskegee airmen. These were African-American pilots who were trained to fly and protect bombers. These men did not get the credit they deserved and they got a bum rap. I am glad that know they are being honored and getting the recognition they so rightfully deserve. This book should be considered one of Katzenbach's best novels. I hope he writes more historical thrillers in the future.	2002-03-25
US	53045954	RBRUVUEPVTYFV	0440215285	42836301	Killing Orders	Books	4	34	34	N	N	Gets into the character	KILLING ORDERS is one of Paretsky's earlier V. I. Warshawski novels. In this case her aunt Rosa is accused by her church in committing stock fraud. She reluctantly asks her niece for her help in clearing her name.<br />I have read most of Warshawski's novels and this one is one of my favorites mainly because I got to learn more about her character as well as her relationship with her friend, Lotty. I regret having read them in disorder but I recommend this novel for anyone interested in learning how V. I. got started. Although this is the third novel in the series it tells a lot.	2002-03-22
US	53045954	RGNPTTAXS811H	0451200284	499799834	Scavenger	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Surprising	Many years ago I read Agatha Christie's novel THE MURDER OF ROGER ACKROYD. This book shocked me in the sense that the reader takes everything they read at face value but then are proven wrong. Tom Savage uses a similar plot device in SCAVENGER.<br />Mark Stevenson is a novelist who just published a thin-veiled account of The Family Man murders. This serial killer murdered complete families that fall a certain criteria. He killed five families all over the United States and then stopped. Twelve years later, people are still wondering what happened to The Family Man. 'Scavenger' knows what really happened and he wants Mark Stevenson to play his little game to find out the truth of The Family Man. <br />The story is very well-executed and had my full attention. The cat-and-mouse game gets to be a bit intense but that is what makes it fun. The ending really caught me off guard and I never saw it coming. Any author who can do that earns my respect. There were a few scenes in the book that I found to be a bit redundant and there are times when Scavenger's game seems to gon on forever. This is why I did not put five stars on this review. I enjoyed Savage's novel as well as his previous work, VALENTINE (the book, didn't care to see the movie). I wish him success with his next work.	2002-03-20
US	53045954	RD1UP1Z9EZM0B	0451200284	499799834	Scavenger	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Surprising	Many years ago I read Agatha Christie's novel THE DEATH OF ROGER ACKROYD. This book shocked me in the sense that the reader takes everything they read at face value but then are proven wrong. Tom Savage uses a similar plot device in SCAVENGER.<br />Mark Stevenson is a novelist who just published a thin-veiled account of The Family Man murders. This serial killer murdered complete families that fall a certain criteria. He killed five families all over the United States and then stopped. Twelve years later, people are still wondering what happened to The Family Man. 'Scavenger' knows what really happened and he wants Mark Stevenson to play his little game to find out the truth of The Family Man. <br />The story is very well-executed and had my full attention. The cat-and-mouse game gets to be a bit intense but that is what makes it fun. The ending really caught me off guard and I never saw it coming. Any author who can do that earns my respect. I enjoyed this novel as well as VALENTINE (the book, didn't care to see the movie). I wish him success with his next work.	2002-03-20
US	53045954	R2RL5YS5SM4RO5	0451204123	161070434	The Association	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Good Social Commentary	Bentley Little is one of the few authors that I know that can take a simple social issue and show the evils some of these issues might have. <br />In THE ASSOCIATION, Barry and Maureen Welch move to an idyllic neighborhood which has a home owner's association. They all have rules and regulations that at first might seem logical but then they border at the inane and ridiculous turning this into a horror novel. It shows what may happen with people who become power hungry and how rules that are meant to control can also destroy. The Welches do their best to fit in the neighborhood but then discover that they might be trapped there forever if they do not do something. The Bonita Vista Association have severe penalties for housing infractions.<br />I enjoyed this novel even thought there are several graphic scenes involved. This book is not for the squeamish. If you like this novel, I strongly recommend his previous novel THE STORE. It also has an extreme message but it is something small business owners can identify with.	2002-03-20
US	53045954	R1Y7Z0CCZ3GCAL	0345380274	671447926	Deadly Justice	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Give me a break	This is the second William Bernhardt novel I read; MURDER ONE was my first. I applaud Mr. Bernhardt for all the charity work he has done in the last few years by editing projects like LEGAL BRIEFS and NATURAL SUSPECT whose proceeds go to charity. I am sorry that this novel in his JUSTICE series does not have my praise.<br />Ben Kincaid is lured from his private practice to work for the Apollo Consortium. He is supposed to be very smart but no matter how smart he cannot see that he is being set up to take a fall. Second, he finds a 'dead' body in his office, leaves for five minutes and then the body disappears. I will not spoil it for those who have not read this book but farfetched does not even cover it. The dead body was a member of something called 'The Kindergarten Club' which is related to a rash of murders ocuring in Kincaid's town of Tulsa, Oklahoma.<br />At the end of the novel, just like Jessica Fletcher, he solves every piece of the puzzle and yet he took his time in finding out that he was being treated like a fool at his new firm. Thank goodness this was not a permanent predicament. I hope that there are better JUSTICE novels in his series.	2002-03-19
US	53045954	R20MIWP4SGZU9C	0312977433	315738847	Let Me Whisper in Your Ear	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A bumpy ride	Thirty years ago, two kids sneaked out of their homes to go to Palisades Park and ride the roller coaster. Two kids went in, only one came back. Everyone in the group was sworn to secrecy and they have been living with this nightmare for three decades.<br />Laura Walsh is an up-and-coming television producer at KEY. She has been working on the network for several years making obituary segments of newsmakers before they die. This helps them to be prepared at a moment's notice and not to have scrounge for material when the newsmaker officially passes away. Laura wants to move ahead and work as a producer for KEY second highest-rated news magazine, Hourglass.  In the story there is a murder mystery as well as a subplot involving a dead pool in which the person who predicts which celebrity will die next will win a lot of money. <br />The story is a bit forced there is no smooth transition from one scene to another. The author tries to hard in creating red herrings as well as planting clues. One things that the deaths in the book is about one thing when in reality is about another. She wants the reader to be suspicious of everyone and being a bit obvious about it. This book will not deter me in trying her other novels (this one is my first), however, Ms. Clark should let the story take its course and not spoil it with unnecessary details.	2002-03-18
US	53045954	R1URG9MZWC8BE9	0553580019	849745235	Bitch Factor	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Child Factor	Dixie Flannigan is a former Harris County assistant district attorney who got tired of letting guilty men go free. She quits her job in Houston and becomes a legend in the bounty hunter field. Most suspects who jump bail do not want to be caught by her. She is relentless and does not give up easily.<br />In the first book of the series, Flannigan is hired to find Parker Dann who is accused of killing a little girl in a hit-and-run accident. Dan has no recollection of the events and he feels that he is being railroaded so he flees. Flannigan finds him hiding in North Dakota and brings him in during one of the worst blizzards in history. As she apprehends the bail jumper she is not convinced of his guilt. She takes a chance to investigate and what she finds will give chills on one's spine.<br />Dixie is very entertaining in a serious sort of way. She loves her family even though sometimes they get on her nerves. My main problem with this book was that it involves the killing of two sisters. It is not gruesome but it is not something I would enjoy reading from a first-time author. The book makes good use of its humor without it being slapstick. Ms. Rogers also makes good use of the supporting characters such as Brew, Hooch, and Ski. I will probably read RAGE FACTOR and CHILL FACTOR in the future.	2002-03-18
US	53045954	R1X40GXL8P4ZBZ	0451205073	945073520	Last Breath	Books	3	77	88	N	N	Overdone	When C. J. Osborn was a little girl she prevented her own kidnapping. She fought the attacker and escaped from the clutches of `The Boogeyman'. Twenty years later, she is working as a police officer who is always looking behind her shoulder waiting for `The Boogeyman' to assault her again. This is the synopsis we get at the back of the book, however the story is completely different.<br />An ex-husband wants vengeance against the woman who divorced him. As he begins to plan he learns that his ex-wife is being targeted by a serial killer and decides to use this to his advantage. He studies the killer's methods and tries to emulate them when it comes time to kill her and therefore commit the perfect crime. The police will concentrate on the serial killer and ignore the ex-husband who already has an alibi. As it is with most of these novels it does not turn out that way thanks to the quick thinking of Officer Osborn and the police.<br />The serial killer story is what takes center stage in this book. `The Boogeyman' is only important at the beginning and at the end. The plot of the story takes place in twenty-six hours that does not give enough time for character development. Mr. Prescott should have done the serial killer story exclusively, that story was good. C. J.'s boogeyman turned out to be something flat and I think he could have done something better had he written this novel knowing that there would be a sequel. Fans will be disappointed on the way things turned out in this book.	2002-03-18
US	53045954	R1FTOIXXMEZB7W	039914739X	683788691	Isle of Dogs	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Silly	This is the third novel in the series featuring Officer Brazil and Judy Hammer. Brazil wants to use his journalism skills in order to help the police department and with the blessing of his boss, Judy Hammer he creates the Trooper Truth web site. He uses this forum to talk about Virginia history and to talk about law enforcement. All it does is create more trouble than this book is worth.<br />The governor of Virginia is putting stringent laws to the island of Tangier in the coast of the state. The people from Tangier want to become independent of the state. A lot of confusion is created in this book for its characters as well as the readers. There is a lot of play of words, a comedy of errors and some slapstick humor.<br />This book is meant to be a satire but I think it fails miserably. There were very few scenes that were funny. There is also a cameo appearance by Kay Scarpetta, which seems to be a token for the faithful reader. I do not know what else to say since I do not have any constructive suggestions for this book I just hope to enjoy Ms. Cornwell's next novel and forget about this one.	2002-03-18
US	53045954	R1Z358HTI3XWQR	0553581929	138360553	Special Circumstances (Mike Daley, Book 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Impressive debut	Mike Daley has been recently terminated by his law firm and is now moving towards private practice. On the last day at his job, two co-workers are found dead in their office in what appears to be a murder-suicide. The new district attorney is not convinced and decides to investigate. He arrests Joel Friedman, an associate at the law firm, who was last seen arguing the day before with one of the deceased. Daley decides to help his friend since he believes that there is more to this case than meets the eye and he is right.<br />This is a good debut for a promising new author; the book has its twists and turns but nothing that I would consider to be predictable. The law firm is full of suspects and they have lots of secrets to hide. It is when the reader passes through each level in the case the author appreciates the novel more. There is a lot of character development and it is an intriguing case. The novel is slightly long but it was not a turn-off. This book is for fans of the courtroom drama, it goes to every aspect of the trial from opening statements all the way to the verdict. I found the ending to be good, a bit unexpected but entertaining. I am looking forward to read INCRIMINATING EVIDENCE in the future.	2002-03-18
US	53045954	RO9O3EIGOTJ8D	0312969139	439791632	The Hanging Garden (Inspector Rebus Novels)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Hanging by every word in the page	This is my first Ian Rankin novel and it will definitely not be my last. John Rebus is a complex character who is battling his own personal demons. He is an Edinburgh Detective Inspector who is a recovering alcoholic and who is trying to reconnect with his daughter, Sammy, after many years of separation.<br />In this novel, Sammy is a victim of a hit-and-run and is currently unconscious in the hospital; a gang war is brewing and seems that the Yakuza might be involved; and an elderly man is being investigated as a Nazi war criminal. Rebus is trying to save Karina, a Bosnian refugee who is working as a prostitute in the streets of Edinburgh. Rankin does an excellent job with characterization giving depth to all the supporting players involved in the story. He focuses on their strengths as well as their weaknesses and does a great job in showing irony on several occasions.<br />The author knows how to structure the story. He makes use of flashbacks without warning the readers. It helps one to appreciate the then as well as the now. The story is not linear and it helps one to understand the motivation of most of the characters. I enjoyed my first John Rebus novel and I hope that all the others are as good as this one.	2002-03-10
US	53045954	R3QLAHL0KTVGFR	0385503822	782272714	The Summons	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Better than the Brethren	An aging judge summons his two sons for one last time to discuss his last will and testament. Unfortunately, he dies before both of them arrive. Ray is a college professor who dreams of flying his own private plane; Forrest has been having substance abuse problems for years. When Ray goes to his father he finds him already dead and as he is searching throughout the house he finds a hidden cache of money containing over 3 million dollars. Ray does not know what to think about the money and he is afraid that his respected father was a crook.<br />My last foray with Grisham was with THE BRETHREN. I thought it was one of the worst novels I ever read. This novel is slightly better but it still falters. The story goes through several unrelated threads that do not fit right. Ray thinks that the judge won his money gambling and the reader spends too long reading about it and not getting anywhere. We find very late in the game where the money came from but by then the reader does not really care. Any Grisham addict will read this book but this is not his best work. I consider THE TESTAMENT to be his latest good novel.	2002-03-05
US	53045954	R28O7FOTEETT0Z	0684842637	648789	By Dawn's Early Light: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	The Return of the Handyman	The Handyman, who we last saw in THE GATEKEEPER, returns and he is trying to kill the President of the United States by using a Korean orphan as the weapon. The President of the United States is interfering with the plans of several government insiders and they want her stopped.<br />Shelby introduces a new character named Sloane Ryder. She is a whistleblower who broke a fraud scheme within her former company but later was hired by the GAO to work as a regulator. It is in her position within the agency that she starts to uncover a conspiracy involving the Chinese government.<br />The story does not end properly with this novel. It seem the story will continue in Shelby's next novel. This might disappoint some people, others might not care. My main problem with the novel was that I thought the conspiracy and the assasination attempt came up a bit too easily. Once they find some evidence, something happens to nullify it.<br />Ms. Ryder saves the day several times and as a civilian she makes law enforcement seem inept. She finds the clues quicker than the police and she does a better job of defending herself than the Secret Service. She gets to see the face of the Handyman up close and personal. Now there are two women who know who he is (the first being GATEKEEPER's Hollis Freemont, who has a short and unsatisfying role in the novel) they will probably team up and try to bring him down in the future. Only time will tell.	2002-03-05
US	53045954	R3KT7A98LKBE7O	0312251947	635817869	Naked Came the Phoenix: A Serial Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Farfetched but fun and all for a good cause	A senator's wife and her mother go to an exclusive spa to try to relax. They meet several celebrities, which include a model, a movie star and an aging rock star. The spa owner is found murdered in one of the center's mud baths grasping in her dead hands a white thong. Every body in the spa is a suspect and each one has a secret to hide. Nobody came to the spa to relax. They all came because the owner had summoned them and has also been blackmailing some of her clients. Everyone has a motive but it is now time to find out who the murderer (murderers?) are.<br />I was attracted to this book by two selling points. One, all the proceeds from this book goes to help breast cancer charities; second, except for two of the authors, I had read previous works from the participants and have enjoyed every one. Each author contributes a chapter and then passes it to another author to continue the story. They all did a great job and made it interesting to see how they reacted to some outrageous plot threads put in the story. The story is definitely farfetched but it was fun. I applaud Laurie King for writing a decent final chapter to the mess provided by the other authors. All threads were tied and everybody could breath a sound of relief. I am not claiming this to be great literature but I thought the concept was a good idea and it all goes to a worthy cause.	2002-03-01
US	53045954	R3BH2V3TZEL11W	0345426800	469724742	A Perfect Crime	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Too many coincidences	Francie and Roger Cullingwood are drifting apart. Roger has been looking for a job for the past year after being fired, Francie is unhappy with her marriage and she has been having an affair with radio psychologist, Ned DeMarco. She is also having doubts with her affair since meeting Ned's wife, who through unforeseen circumstances and coincidence winds up being Francie's tennis partner in an important tournament. Roger finds Francie's love nest and he has decided that he wants her dead but just like any other criminal, he does not want to get caught.<br />After doing some thorough research he decides to manipulate Whitey Truax into committing a crime in which his wife will turn out dead. Just like any other book things do not turn up as planned and all of Roger's scheming have gone done the tubes into a predictable conclusion. Roger thinks he is too smart and that he has planned for every eventuality and this book shows that is not entirely true.<br />In reading this novel I was expecting a story similar to A SIMPLE PLAN by Scott Smith. This story has too many coincidences that tempted me to stop reading the book.  This is my first Peter Abrahams novel and I will try to read him again in the future. He does a good job with characterization but to me the plot fizzled. There were some loose ends that were not clarified and there were at least two characters in the book that I found to be redundant to the storyline. I do not think removing them would have made any difference but that is just how I feel.	2002-03-01
US	53045954	R3AKSKE50NV4YP	0060185074	384682637	The Vendetta Defense	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A little bit annoying	Seventy-nine-year-old `Pigeon Tony' Lucia is accused of murdering Angelo Carluzzi. Lawyer Judy Carrier is tired of working with torts and contracts that she wants to try something new. Pigeon Tony is a friend of someone very close to Judy that she is willing to work pro bono for him. Pigeon Tony admits to killing Carluzzi but not of murdering him. He was working on a sixty-year-old vendetta against Carluzzi whom he blames for killing his wife and daughter.<br />The story relies too much on flashback and after a while you get tired of reading about it. There is also a family feud between the Lucias and the Carluzzis that make the Hatfields and McCoys seem tame in comparison. It is fairly obvious what the outcome of the trial will be. There is some humor in the novel, which did not do much for me. The only other novel I read by Scottoline was MISTAKEN IDENTITY. I thought this was a better novel and I strongly recommend it. I also suggest LEGAL BRIEFS, a mystery anthology. It has a Lisa Scottoline short story that I just found hysterical. I might not like this novel but I still like her work.	2002-03-01
US	53045954	RM6EGQ3N5CDN3	0446610178	794635347	The Sky Is Falling	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Predictable	Dana Evans is a television anchorwoman who is investigating the killing of Gary Winthrop, the last surviving member of the Winthrop clan. This family was considered America's royal family. Unfortunately, all five members died in tragic accidents within the last year. Dana thinks that all of this is too coincidental and she uses her resources to learn the truth.<br />Mr. Sheldon does a good job creating several character dynamics with Dana by including Kemal. Kemal is an eleven-year-old she rescued from Sarajevo who lost his arm during the war. Kemal is afraid that Dana is going to reject him and send him back; Dana is afraid that she is doing a bad job as a mother to Kemal and is afraid that Children Services is going to whisk him away. This is the only good subplot in the novel; everything else in the story was superfluous. Nobody is willing to talk bad about the Winthrops and those who do wind up dead... The motives came out of left field making something complicated out of something simple. It made me feel that the more complicated the story line, the more plausible it can be. This book is a quick read. I have read two other novels by this author and none of them have really satisfied me. The book is only good if you need time to kill.	2002-03-01
US	53045954	R2U6PLKB9FA4MY	0743202694	953997941	Money, Money, Money: A Novel of the 87th Precinct (87th Precinct Mysteries)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	First McBain novel read	MONEY, MONEY, MONEY is the first Ed McBain (or Evan Hunter) novel that I have read. I am sure I would have appreciated this novel better had I read previous 87th precinct novels. This is the first time I meet the characters from the squad and there were some chapters I had to reread in order to understand what was going on, particularly the death of Steve Carella's father.<br />The case begins with a gruesome discovery at the town zoo's lion cage. Five lions are having Cassandra Ridley for breakfast. Most of the zoo's territory falls on the 87th precinct; however, the victim's leg winds up reaching the 88th precinct where Fat Ollie Weeks works for the police department.<br />In the course of the investigation they learn that Ms. Ridley was working a pilot for Mexican drug runners. Inadvertently, she was also involved with counterfeit money, which brings the Secret Service to the mix. There is also a death involving a book salesman who also plays a part in this caper.<br />I cannot be too critical about this novel since this is my first McBain novel out of over fifty. I think I would have preferred to learn more of the series regulars before having started this novel. I do not intend to give up with this author since I am sure he has other good novels.	2002-02-20
US	53045954	RNQFYK6EL5G17	0446527378	607227823	The Judgment	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Well-deserved Edgar nomination	In the first paragraph of D. W. Buffa&#8217;s novel, defense attorney Joseph Antonelli states that he hated Judge Calvin Jeffries. He considered him to be one of the most evil men he has ever met. The only reason he is attending the funeral of this murdered judge was because people was seeing this as an affront to the American judicial system.<br />A homeless suspect is arrested and later commits suicide in his cell. Case closed. Three months later a second judge is killed in a similar way and circumstance. Everybody thinks that this is a copycat killer but Antonelli is not convinced. He has his own suspicion as to what really happened and he intends to use it as a defense for his client.<br />Buffa does an excellent job with character development. One gets to know Joseph so well that we can&#8217;t help but root for him. Elliot Winston also plays a role in this novel. He is a former law associate of Antonelli who &#8216;wronged&#8217; Judge Jeffries and is now serving time in a mental institution. Finally, there is the character of Judge Jeffries. He is already dead by the first page but one can&#8217;t help but feel revulsion toward this man. Jeffries was a self-serving megalomaniac who loved to ruin people&#8217;s lives.<br />The novel is a story about revenge. How it was done, why it was done, and who had it done. It will give you chills down your spine once you learn the truth. I was a little sad at the ending but I can understand the circumstances in Buffa's writing as to why he did what he did. It is one of the best mystery novels I have read in a while and I am glad it received an Edgar Award nomination for best novel.	2002-02-19
US	53045954	ROXK03E0HXJUP	0385335555	718492514	Tell No One	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Intense	Harlan Coben's novel is an intense thrill ride. It has been eight years since the death of Dr. David Beck's wife, Elizabeth. He is still grieving after all this time and has not moved forward in his life. On the day of a very special anniversary he receives an anonymous e-mail. In it he gets a hyperlink that takes him to a web cam in an anonymous city. He is shocked when he sees his `dead' wife on the screen.<br />He is now searching for the truth about what happened eight years ago. A serial killer now serving time in Death Row allegedly murdered his wife. There is a group of people who do not want him to learn the truth so they try to frame him for murder and try to find out what he knows.<br />The novel has a lot of action and it is very intense, however, the ending seemed to be a little bit abrupt after all that has happened. The other problem I had with this particular book was that it reminded me of Greg Iles' latest novel, DEAD SLEEP. The stories parallel one another and one just needs to make several substitutions to get the same plot. This book is hard to read in several days, one has to read it constantly in order to find out what happens next. I liked it but I was prejudiced after having read Iles' novel.	2002-02-19
US	53045954	R29HL7WZ5B9ZUE	0375413227	723539103	Pain Management: A Burke Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	For the hard-boiled fans	Andrew Vachss' novel is a story of deep betrayal. Burke is an ex-con who escaped from New York and is now trying to live a life in Portland, Oregon as B. B. Hazard. He is hired to find a missing girl who left her family's home without a trace. While performing his investigation he learns about the darkness this new city offers. The girl's father seems a bit too overeager in finding his daughter. One is ready to think the worst of somebody and one finds that he is but for the wrong reason. The book's resolution was a surprise to me. <br />This novel is very hard-boiled and not for the kids. It took me a while to get to grasp the meaning of this book since it is something I am not used to read. Vachss knows his material as stated in his biography. He shows the dark side of humanity and it is not always pretty. This was my first Burke novel. I might try to read FLOOD in the future in order to gain a better understanding of this character.	2002-02-17
US	53045954	R15VI0JD9QFPI9	0671038818	890794561	Dead Silence	Books	2	2	3	N	N	As good as a thousand dollar bill	Liza MacDonough is a counselor for International Air helping downsized employees to get back on their feet. Most of her clients feel that there is something fishy going around in the company since they were doing the job of two or more people. Liza's other concern is that her husband has disappeared for over a year and he is always on her mind. She starts her investigation and is shocked what she discovers.<br />The author overwhelms the reader with too much information. We always have to know what Liza is thinking and why she is thinking it. She also puts a lot of suspects on the plate so that one goes, \\"he did it\\", \\"no he did it\\", \\"no she did it\\". Every time she gets close to the truth, somebody dies, gets mugged, or their houses broken into. She wants to make Liza a strong character but after a while I just found her pathetic and I just finished the book. I was slightly surprised with the ending but that was it.<br />There were two main things that really bothered me with the novel. The first is that there is a big, loose thread involving the guilty person's son and I would have liked to see that resolved. The second thing was that there is a scene where Liza finds a doll filled with fifty thousand dollars in thousand dollar bills. The largest denomination of dollar bill available in the United States is the hundred-dollar bill. The thousand and five hundred dollar bill have been discontinued for almost twenty years. One can say that this story could take place during the sixties or seventies, but with all the musical references added to the book plus the use of the Internet it is highly unlikely. This novel was poorly written and the fact checking was just nil. Ms. Anders might be a popular author but not with this novel.	2002-02-17
US	53045954	R1AE83J62PUMGF	0553299514	594241958	Lullaby Town : An Elvis Cole Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	One of the better Elvis Cole novels	Twelve years ago, Karen Shipley was seventeen years old and had dreams of becoming a movie star. She married a struggling film director and had a son with him. Fourteen months into the marriage her husband leaves her and she goes and tries to start a new life.<br />Twelve years later, Peter Alan Nelsen, Karen's former husband, is one of the most successful film directors in Hollywood. For some unexplained reason he wants to mend out his wrongs and try to find her ex-wife and son. He wants to be a part of his son's life so he hires Elvis Cole to try to find her.  Elvis finds Karen, now living a somewhat idyllic life, and her whole world turns upside down once she is found.<br />This is one of the better Elvis Cole novels that I read. He does a good job in fleshing out Karen's character from the nave girl she used to be to the mature single mom trying to do right for her son. She had to do some sacrifices for her son. Her story was well told and it seemed believable.<br />Peter Alan Nelsen has never grown up and he is a caricature of the overly rich and famous. He is arrogant, pompous and egotistical. The circumstances in the book will turn him into someone wanting to be a better person. I was becoming disappointed with the Elvis Cole novels but this one might just change my mind. Elvis is still his wise guy self and his partner, Joe Pike is still the strong silent type. I liked that Crais used this novel to do more character development with Cole's clients while still giving something about Cole and Pike for any first timer reading his stories.	2002-02-15
US	53045954	R3HY7N5BM84YTP	0553299514	594241958	Lullaby Town : An Elvis Cole Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	One of the better Elvis Cole novels	Twelve years ago, Karen Shipley was seventeen years old and had dreams of becoming a movie star. She married a struggling film director and had a son with him. Fourteen months into the marriage her husband leaves her and she goes and tries to start a new life.<br />Twelve years later, Peter Alan Nelsen, Karen's former husband, is one of the most successful film directors in Hollywood. For some unexplained reason he wants to mend out his wrongs and try to find her ex-wife and son. He wants to be a part of his son's life so he hires Elvis Cole to try to find her.  Elvis finds Karen, now living a somewhat idyllic life, and her whole world turns upside down once she is found.<br />This is one of the better Elvis Cole novels that I read. He does a good job in fleshing out Karen's character from the nave girl she used to be to the mature single mom trying to do right for her son. She had to do some sacrifices for her son. Her story was well told and it seemed plausible.<br />Peter Alan Nelsen has never grown up and he is a caricature of the overly rich and famous. He is arrogant, pompous and egotistical. The circumstances in the book will turn him into someone wanting to be a better person. I was becoming disappointed with the Elvis Cole novels but this one might just change my mind. Elvis is still his wise guy self and his partner, Joe Pike is still the strong silent type. I liked that Crais used this novel to do more character development with Cole's clients while still giving something about Cole and Pike for any first timer reading his stories.	2002-02-15
US	53045954	R29A6D9KX2P1ZO	0671009540	81122866	The Only Good Lawyer (John Francis Cuddy Mystery)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A comfortable read	One does not read Jeremiah Healy for a deep or insightful story. His books are enjoyable to read without becoming a cozy. I have read several short stories with John Francis Cuddy and I also read one of her previous novels. I enjoy his stories but I cannot say that they are memorable. <br />Cuddy's latest case involves the death of Woodrow Wilson Gant, a prominent African American divorce attorney, who gets gun downed from his car. His passenger is the mysterious blonde woman, who was drunk and oblivious to what happened. Once she wakes up and sees what happened she flees leaving the reader curious as to her identity. The accused turns out to be a racist bigot by the name of Alan Spaeth who threatened the lawyer after a messy divorce. Cuddy may not like the guy but he finds too many coincidences that prove that Spaeth is innocent.<br />There are too many characters involved in this novel. Everybody has a story. Some of their stories were touching and others were funny. Someone suggested to me that it almost seemed that Cuddy was trying to become Columbo visiting suspects continually until the truth is revealed. At the beginning of the novel, Gant's killer said three words to his victim before he died. If one is attentive to the book one can easily find out whom the murderer is. The mysterious woman with the blonde wig was a different story. There were several red herring candidates but at least when her identity was revealed it was not something out of left field. This just a comfortable read and I plan on reading some of his other novels in the near future.	2002-02-14
US	53045954	R2CW9MI48T5VF4	0752827812	960734613	Kick Back	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Don't mess with Kate	In Kate Brannigan's second novel she is investigating (as Kate puts it) the mystery of the missing conservatories. She is working for a contractor who is being pressure by the bank to pay off his loan because the bank suspects him to be involved in a fraud. He has made his payments on time and has not had any previous problem with the law, however when he does his own investigation he notices that the conservatories (greenhouses) he has put up have just vanished. <br />Kate's friend, Alexis, also has a problem. She has been conned out of 5,000 pounds from a real estate scheme and she wants Kate's help. What makes this a bit unique is that the two cases are somewhat related to each other as the story moves along. The story is full of twists and turns and a lot of action. I am sorry this was a quick read but I just love her work.<br />Kate is a firecracker. She is ready to go at bat for her friends and does not like to leave any stone unturned. She is resourceful and she knows how to kick butt when the time comes. If you want to get on her good side, you do not serve her substandard Chinese food. You might regret it.<br />McDermid knows how to tell a good story and it is great to know that her earlier novels are just as good as her most recent work. I highly recommend A PLACE OF EXECUTION if you still have not read it. It is her best book up to now bar none.	2002-02-11
US	53045954	RBSYCGSHNTNCM	0446607606	479656433	The Witch Finder (The Amos Walker Series #13)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great story	Jay Bell Furlong is a successful architect who only has a few weeks left to live. Before he dies he wants to make sure that all his affairs are in order. His biggest regret was losing the love of his life, Lily Talbot. Eight years ago, Furlong received a picture that showed Lily and another man in an uncompromising position. Feeling betrayed, Jay broke off his relationship Lily without giving her a chance to explain. Furlong recently discovered that the picture was a fake and that this lie has caused him the love of his life. He hires Amos Walker, a Detroit Private Investigator, to find out who was the instigator that wrecked his chance at happiness.<br />Amos Walker is a riot. He does not take guff from anyone and he has a quick mind that helps him with his detective job as well as coming up with great one-liners. Estleman explores most of the aspects in the life of Jay Bell Furlong. He introduces several of his relatives and acquaintances and shows how he affected each of their lives. He does not make Furlong to be a saint but he does a great job in developing him as a character.<br />The plot is well done and I did not feel lost at any point in this book. I have read some of Estleman's short stories and none of them have been very memorable to me, however I digress with his character of Amos Walker. This is the first Amos Walker novel I read and it will not be my last. One reason I consider him a winner was that I was able to understand the character without having read any of his previous adventures. I have read some novels that take readers for granted and assumes one knows everything about their main series character. This particular author does not do that and for that I am grateful.	2002-02-09
US	53045954	R1O8UU26WW57V	0312266154	919889268	Killing the Shadows	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Another winner for McDermid	I fell in love with Val McDermid&#8217;s work after reading A PLACE OF EXECUTION. Since then I have read at least one novel from two of her series characters, Kate Brannigan, a private investigator and Lindsay Gordon, a former journalist. KILLING THE SHADOWS is a stand-alone mystery and fairly entertaining.<br />The main character in her novel is Fiona Cameron, a college professor who used to work in conjunction with the police by doing geographic profiling of crimes. She quit working with the police after they ignored her advice and used another expert. The other professional hired entrapped a sexual homicide suspect and caused that all the evidence against the accused be thrown out of court. <br />A self-righteous serial murderer is killing several crime novelists. He takes heinous scenes from their works and tries to imitate as close to the novel as he can. Fiona gets involved in the case because her boyfriend is a world-famous thriller author and she fears he might be targeted. Cameron also feels a sense of personal responsibility due to several aspects in her past that are revealed earlier in the book. There are two subplots involved in this novels that help enhance the character personalities in this book. One involves a sexual homicide that occurs early in the book and a serial killer who is terrorizing tourist in Toledo, Spain<br />One factor in McDermid&#8217;s book that I enjoyed was the inclusion of excerpts of the victim&#8217;s work before they were executed. I also learned something I did not know about Agatha Christie.<br />The killer&#8217;s motivation for the authors&#8217; murders was unconvincing, but I did not particularly care. Val McDermid is one of the best authors I have experienced in a long time. I intend to continue to read her novels as her books become more readily available.	2002-02-08
US	53045954	R38M43ANNJHC1Q	1559705701	213556383	The Chalon Heads: A Kathy and Brock Mystery	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Stamp forgeries and kidnapping	Detective Sergeant Kathy Kolla and Detective Chief Inspector David Brock return in Barry Maitland's latest novel. They are involved in a case involving kidnapping and stolen stamps. This case will affect Brock because aspects of his past are going to be involved in this affair. <br />There are times in the story when the plot gets to be a bit confusing. The author takes a lot of time bringing out all the players involved. It is not till the end of the novel that we see how one person was manipulating most of the characters. It is not clear exactly one happens but the author puts his effort. We get to see the characters as they are as well as how they pretend to be in other people's company. We get to learn a little bit of Brock's past and we get to see a bit more of Kolla's character. <br />I preferred Maitland's previous novels to this one. The story here is good but I think THE MALCONTENTA was better. I am looking forward to reading SILVERMEADOW as soon as it becomes available in the United States.	2002-02-06
US	53045954	R2NNSY7VCMZP21	0380794764	216405554	Blood at the Root (An Inspector Alan Banks Mystery)	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Not as good as the others	In this novel things are not as they seem. Inspector Banks is sent to investigate a beating death outside of the English pub areas. Everything seems cut and dried at first since the victim was a renowned racist who was seen arguing with a group of Pakistani youths. If it were that simple there would not be a novel.<br />The book focuses on hatred and drug dealing. Inspector Banks is having major personal problems that at times might hinder his investigation. This is my second Inspector Banks novel (PAST REASON HATED being first). I intend to continue reading the series because I have heard many positive things about the character in other novels. This book was good but not as good as the one I previously read.	2002-02-05
US	53045954	R2F2G6OPQTGT57	0312269609	567823862	The Viking Funeral: A Shane Scully Novel (Shane Scully Novels)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Disappointing	In THE VIKING FUNERAL, Stephen J. Cannell continues the story of Sergeant Shane Scully. In THE TIN COLLECTORS, Scully's first appearance, he brings down a group of corrupt cops, the Chief of Police and the mayor of California. The LAPD is in turmoil and now trying to recuperate from the scandal. Scully has a better relationship with his son and is happily dating Alexa Hamilton, an ally from the previous novel. His life drastically changes one day when he sees his `dead' friend driving on the highway.<br />He learns that several policemen have faked their own deaths to form part of a team called the Vikings. Shane, Scully, and the new Chief of Police set up a plan to infiltrate the group. As the plan takes place, Scully is forced to kill Alexa and run for his life while working with the Vikings.<br />Once the reader learns the Vikings true mission, the novel starts to go downhill. The Vikings are involved in a complicated and bit convoluted money-laundering scheme. The principals of this caper are all caricatures and stereotypes who do not have any personality, just role in the play. It is hard to identify with the criminals and it gets to the point that one does not really care. There is no smooth flow in the reading and there were times that I had to reread specific chapters. I have read other Cannell novels that I enjoyed. I prefer that he continues writing stand-alone novels instead of continuing a series with Scully. I feel the sergeant lacked a focus in the novel.	2002-02-04
US	53045954	R1VQZ34D0Y26F1	0312269609	567823862	The Viking Funeral: A Shane Scully Novel (Shane Scully Novels)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Disappointing	In THE VIKING FUNERAL, Stephen J. Cannell continues the story of Sergeant Shane Scully. In THE TIN COLLECTORS, Scully's first appearance, he brings down a group of corrupt cops, the Chief of Police and the mayor of California. The LAPD is in turmoil and now trying to come back from the ashes. Scully has a better relationship with his son and is happily dating Alexa Hamilton, an ally from the previous novel. His life drastically changes one day when he sees his `dead' friend driving on the highway.<br />He learns that several policemen have faked their own deaths to form part of a team called the Vikings. Shane, Scully, and the new Chief of Police set up a plan to infiltrate the group. As the plan takes place, Scully is forced to kill Alexa and run for his life while working with the Vikings.<br />Once the reader learns the Vikings true mission, the novel starts to go downhill. The Vikings are involved in a complicated and bit convoluted money-laundering scheme. The principals of this caper are all caricatures and stereotypes who do not have any personality, just role in the play. It is hard to identify with the criminals and it gets to the point that one does not really care. There is no smooth flow in the reading and there were times that I had to reread specific chapters. I have read other Cannell novels that I enjoyed. I prefer that he continues writing stand-alone novels instead of continuing a series with Scully. I feel the sergeant lacked a focus in the novel.	2002-02-04
US	53045954	R33ABSDP8OS7EM	1883523303	63794731	Conferences Are Murder: The Fourth Lindsay Gordon Mystery	Books	4	3	3	N	N	but the book is highly enjoyable	Lindsay Gordon is a former journalist who returns to the United Kingdom to attend a trade union conference that will provide material for her doctoral dissertation. She is not a stranger to these meetings since she used to work as a trade delegate ten years ago. Nothing has changed in a decade. There is hypocrisy, prejudice, sexual harassment and debauchery among the attendants. Somebody is also writing a newsletter that is making accusations on the members of the conference.<br />To make matters worse Tom Jack, a union boss, dies when he falls out of Lindsay's tenth floor hotel room. The police are quick to suspect on Lindsay due to her animosity towards Jack as well as it being her hotel room. In order to clear her name she decides to investigate the death with the help of her lover, Sophie Hartley. What they discovered is an ugly blackmail and embezzling scheme involving several people at the trade union.<br />I liked reading this novel with its satire and quick wit. The plotting is well done and the story ends well. I am aware that this is not the first Lindsay Gordon novel but I will try to read the others. I am enjoying Ms. McDermid's novels and characters.	2002-02-03
US	53045954	R1KGYSAN6ISHTQ	1883523303	63794731	Conferences Are Murder: The Fourth Lindsay Gordon Mystery	Books	4	0	0	N	N	but the book is highly enjoyable	Lindsay Gordon is a former journalist who returns to the United Kingdom to attend a trade union conference that will provide material for her doctoral dissertation. She is not a stranger to these meetings since she used to work as a trade delegate ten years ago. Nothing has changed in a decade. There is hypocrisy, prejudice, sexual harassment and debauchery among the attendants. Somebody is also writing a newsletter that is making accusations on the members of the conference.<br />To make matters worse Tom Jack, a union boss, dies when he falls out of Lindsay's tenth floor hotel room. The police are quick to suspect on Lindsay due to her animosity towards Jack as well as it being her hotel room. In order to clear her name she decides to investigate the death with the help of her lover, Sophie Hartley. What they discovered is an ugly blackmail and embezzling scheme involving several people at the trade union.<br />I liked reading this novel with its satire and quick wit. The plotting is well done and the story ends well. I am aware that this is not the first Lindsay Gordon novel but I will try to read the others. I am enjoying Ms. McDermid's novels and characters.	2002-02-03
US	53045954	R2Y9F313NPYUPN	0345434471	487267340	L. A. Requiem (Elvis Cole)	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Better than the other Cole novels but not great	In L. A. REQUIEM Elvis Cole is plays second fiddle to partner, Joe Pike. Crais uses this novel to add character dimension to Pike. In Crais' previous novels Pike is always mysterious. He does not need to talk since he prefers to let his actions speak for him. When he speaks it is because he has something important to say.<br />We get to know a lot more about Pike in this book including why do the police hate him as well as his past. One gets to see a more human side to Joe than in any other novel he has appeared. <br />A serial killer is picking victims out of Pike's past and later, framing Joe in a murder. Elvis does his best to investigate at the risk of losing his P. I. license, his life and his girlfriend. I found this novel to be better than the previous Elvis Cole novels but I felt that I read something similar in the past. The reason for the killer's hate toward Pike seemed to me a bit clich but it work with the story.	2002-02-02
US	53045954	R2X8E15M91V30V	0380788764	61531402	Charm City (Tess Monaghan Novel)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good	This is my first Tess Monaghan novel and I feel left out. After having finished this novel I felt I might have enjoyed it more if I read BALTIMORE BLUES first and learn the main character as well as the supporting members.<br />Tess is a former reporter who is now working as a private investigator. She is hired by a newspaper to find out who hacked into their computers and filed a story that was not meant to be published. It involves the checkered past of Wink Wynkowski, a basketball promoter, who is trying to lure a professional team to move to Baltimore. Shortly after the article is printed, Wink is found dead of an apparent suicide. She does her best in trying to find answers to this death as well to other related ones that occur later on in the novel. She will be surprised to what she discovers.<br />Tess is also investigating an assault case on her uncle. He leaves her a greyhound that everybody is looking for. The Greyhound storyline was a bit disturbing. We learn about illegal dog racing as well as other activities that would shock just about anybody. I do not wish to spoil it for anyone but it was very troubling. <br />The author piques ones interest in learning about the problem some of these greyhounds have after leaving the track and later being adopted by a loving family. Ms. Lippmans love for dogs is evident in these pages.<br />I liked reading about Tess and plan to do so in the future, however, I plan on reading her first novel, BALTIMORE BLUES before going any further. Tess is a no nonsense kind of person who knows how to zing people. My favorite scene involved Tess and a cameraman arguing at a health club. If this is what to look forward to on the following books, well, sign me up.	2002-01-31
US	53045954	RBN0ZV7EI8DDD	0446602612	243715630	The Poet	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Not satisfying	Jack McEvoy, a Denver crime beat reporter, learn that his twin brother, Sean has just killed himself using his police-issue service revolver. Jack decides to investigate his brother's suicide and finds evidence that Sean was murdered. What makes it worse is that during his investigation he finds similar cases of cop murders disguised as suicides all over the United States. Each one of those `suicides' left behind a note using the poetry of Edgar Allen Poe. Jack joins the FBI in a task force in search of the serial killer dubbed `The Poet'.<br />The plotting is very confusing. While working in the investigation there is a red herring for another red herring. You are led to believe that a certain character is the Poet and then another one. When you read their alibis later it just seemed a little farfetched and a little too convenient for the story. It got to the point that I did not care who the Poet was and just wanted to finish the book.	2002-01-31
US	53045954	R1BU758YG2JUN7	0446602612	243715630	The Poet	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Not satisfying	Jack McEvoy, a Denver crime beat reporter, learn that his twin brother, Sean has just killed himself using his police-issue service revolver. Jack decides to investigate his brother's suicide and finds evidence that Sean was murdered. What makes it worse is that during his investigation he finds similar cases of cop murders disguised as suicides all over the United States. Each one of those `suicides' left behind a note using the poetry of Edgar Allen Poe. Jack joins the FBI in a task force in search of the serial killer dubbed `The Poet'.<br />The plotting is very confusing. While working in the investigation there is a red herring for another red herring. You are led to believe that a certain character is the Poet and then another one. When you read their alibis later it just seemed a little farfetched and a little too convenient for the story. It got to the point that I did not care who the Poet was and just wanted to finish the book.	2002-01-31
US	53045954	RV16C4WYAMO50	0684804611	605525366	Clean Break: A Kate Brannigan Mystery	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Fun read	Kate Brannigan is a Manchester-based private investigator that is having a bad day. She is investigating the robbery of a Monet painting from one of her client's homes. What really gets her craw is that during the previous day she installed the client's home security system. Kate is also involved with a second case involving industrial sabotage. Kerrchem is facing a rash of lawsuits after one of its cleaning fluids killed a man. The police stated that the man died from inhaling arsenic.<br />Kate does her best to solve these two cases despite her trouble with her boyfriend. Apparently they are at a crossroads after a previous case and they are having trouble getting back in the swing of things.<br />I knew I had to read more of Val McDermid's work after reading A PLACE OF EXECUTION. One thing I enjoyed about CLEAN BREAK was that it was easy to read and I liked the characters. Kate is not a superwoman but she works very hard at what she does. She is loyal to herself and her friends. She knows when she is wrong and she knows when to ask for help. I really enjoyed reading her story and I intend to read the other books in the Kate Brannigan series in the near future.	2002-01-30
US	53045954	R36RJ5MSWHFIO	0684804611	605525366	Clean Break: A Kate Brannigan Mystery	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Fun read	Kate Brannigan is a Manchester-based private investigator that is having a bad day. She is investigating the robbery of a Monet painting from one of her client's homes. What really gets her craw is that during the previous day she installed the client's home security system. Kate is also involved with a second case involving industrial sabotage. Kerrchem is facing a rash of lawsuits after one of its cleaning fluids killed a man. The police stated that the man died from inhaling arsenic.<br />Kate does her best to solve these two cases despite her trouble with her boyfriend. Apparently they are at a crossroads after a previous case and they are having trouble getting back in the swing of things.<br />I knew I had to read more of Val McDermid's work after reading A PLACE OF EXECUTION. One thing I enjoyed about CLEAN BREAK was that it was easy to read and I liked the characters. Kate is not a superwoman but she works very hard at what she does. She is loyal to herself and her friends. She knows when she is wrong and she knows when to ask for help. I really enjoyed reading her story and I intend to read the other books in the Kate Brannigan series in the near future.	2002-01-29
US	53045954	R17CD8DWKOEA56	0786868015	781732773	The Diary of Ellen Rimbauer: My Life at Rose Red	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Good introduction and an interesting read	The main purpose of this book is to enhance the television viewers&#8217; experience while watching ROSE RED on ABC.  I take this book to be a prologue for the miniseries and I hope to enjoy the program. It is irrelevant to me who &#8216;really&#8217; wrote the diary since the idea of the book is to explore the mind of one of the haunted house&#8217;s owners.<br />In 1907, Ellen a nave, young woman marries John Rimbaud, an oil tycoon. She decides to keep a diary to explain the feelings she shares for her husband and her new life. We discover that he is a cruel man who likes having affair with other woman. He does not care for other peoples&#8217; feelings and does whatever he wants. He wants to show how powerful he is by having the biggest and most elaborate house that will later become Rose Red. He is aware that he is desecrating an Indian burial site but he just doesn&#8217;t care. Even when weird things start happening he becomes indifferent. Only when it directly affects him is when he starts to worry.<br />Ellen explores in her diary several things including her hidden sexuality, the dark arts, her plotting for revenge, and her rapport with the house. For reasons that are later explained in the diary, men are getting killed and women disappear in the ever-expanding house.<br />Overall, I think the writing was good. I had a problem with some of the words used that I do not think were used during the 1910s and 1920s. I am not a lexicographer but maybe I am just mistaken. It is an interesting story told but just like in any other diary it is completely one-sided. It would have been interesting if Dr. Reardon had unearthed some addendum material to include in the book to support or deny Ellen&#8217;s writings.	2002-01-27
US	53045954	RIXDX7M3R5ZDI	0141001445	59567717	The Malcontenta: A Kathy and Brock Mystery (Kathy and Brock Mysteries)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Kathy and Brock are back	THE MALCONTENTA marks the return of Detective Sergeant Kathy Kolla and Detective Chief Inspector David Brock where they join forces again to solve a murder.<br />Kathy has been working light duty for the last few months after recuperating from her injuries sustained in THE MARX SISTERS. Her commanding officer gives her and her partner instructions to go investigate an alleged suicide at a posh health spa. When Kathy starts to investigate she finds inconsistencies with the suicide finding and suffers from obstructions of justice brought by the staff of the spa. When Kathy starts creating waves she is yanked off the case by her commanding officer.<br />Kathy decides to visit Brock. Since their work together in the previous novel they share a mutual respect for each other. Kathy tells Brock about the case and her concerns and he decides to join the spa in order to find information.<br />Kathy grows in this novel after the foolhardy way she worked her previous case. I like that the author is taking his time in exploring her characters as he did with DS Kolla this time. He describes her home as well as her neighbors and introduces a possible love interest for Kathy. Brock is still mysterious and in every book we get to know a little more about him but not much about his personal life.<br />The supporting characters are rather diverse but very interesting. Everybody seemed to hate the dead victim and everyone had an opportunity to kill him in one way or another. It is interesting in this book how one person can affect a whole group of people in ways that affect them indirectly. The story is very involving till the very end.<br />My only complaint in this book was Kathy herself. There were several characters that were hindering her investigation that she should have arrested for obstruction. Maybe the English have a different way of doing things than the Americans or perhaps the author thought it would have served no purpose. No matter, I enjoyed this novel and am lookingforward to reading THE CHALON HEADS.	2002-01-26
US	53045954	R38O4U9KRUHW9V	0671047337	141415139	Separation of Power (A Mitch Rapp Novel)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Bravo	In Vince Flynn's last novel a senator is trying to undermine the Director of the CIA and the President of the United States by exposing the CIA's covert operations. He believes that this will outrage the American public and that it will make it easier for him to run for President and to replace the CIA director with someone he can trust and manipulate. In the end he fails and cuts his losses to fight another day by having his co-conspirators killed.<br />In SEPARATION OF POWER, three weeks have passed. Thomas Stansfield, the Director of the CIA, has died of cancer. His hand-picked successor is Dr. Irene Kennedy. Mitch Rapp, a covert-op, is still trying to find out who set him up in the last novel. He knows the identity of the assassin hired by the senator who killed Mitch's only link. The story gets into it when the assassin is slated for termination in order to silence her.<br />The story takes a lot of twist and turns with its action and intensity. When things start going real bad, a rabbit is pulled out of the hat. I enjoyed this novel and was glad to see that the bad guy finally gets his comeuppance in a well-deserved manner. I am glad that Flynn spread this story line into two novels because it the story flows better instead of feeling cramped. Flynn's first two novels have some of the players involved in his latest work, but it is not essential to read in order to enjoy the novel. I strongly recommend one read THE THIRD OPTION before reading SEPARATION OF POWER. You might be disappointed the way the previous novel ends but this latest one really makes up for it. I am looking forward to Vince Flynn's next novel and I hope he creates a new story arc for his political thrillers.	2002-01-22
US	53045954	R6YZ1VLXARQE9	0553275852	814945983	The Monkey's Raincoat  (Elvis Cole)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Meet Elvis	I made the mistake of reading VOODOO RIVER before reading THE MONKEY'S RAINCOAT that has Elvis Cole's first appearance. I had trouble knowing who Cole was in the earlier book but after reading this one things starting falling into place.<br />Elvis Cole is an L.A. Private Investigator who collects Jiminy Cricket as well as other Disney memorabilia. He is hired by Ellen Lang to find her husband and child. He learns that Ellen Lang's husband is dead and that a drug lord has kidnapped her son. The criminal will give the son back to his mother as soon as he gets back the cocaine that Mort allegedly stole from him, Another problem that Elvis faces is that Ellen has disappeared.<br />What follows is a lot of shooting and fighting in the search of Ellen's son. I was not convinced by Crais' characterization of Ellen. She has a lot of emotional problems and low self-esteem that after a few days with Joe Pike (Cole's partner), she is a stronger woman. Cole is [cynical] who likes to live for the moment and finds the humor in anything. Pike is just Pike. He is the strong and silent type who is ready to go into action into a pinch without hesitation. Who cares about the consequences?<br />The Elvis Cole novels seem to be a good series to start when one wants to give their logic circuits a break.	2002-01-21
US	53045954	R19VMC5HWA9OGJ	0446677035	526237241	The Hot Rock	Books	3	7	28	N	N	Did not enjoy it	A man is hired by a U.N. Ambassador to steal an emerald that is dividing two `fictional' African countries. He hires John Dortmunder to form a group and to steal the emerald for one of the African countries. There are several mishaps and comedy of errors that force Dortmunder and his gang to steal the emerald several times. <br />This is my second Westlake novel; the first being THE HOOK. I was not won over by Dortmunder in this novel; one reason could be that I was thinking of OCEAN'S ELEVEN while reading this book. I might try to read another Dortmunder story in the future but I just could not get into this one. I am aware that the book is a comedy but I did not find it funny.	2002-01-20
US	53045954	R3JIIKEDBKAFI9	0312269595	734957500	The Tin Collectors	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Mindless fun	Shane Scully received an emergency call from his ex-partner's wife saying that her husband is trying to kill her. Shane comes and shoots his former partner, Molars, dead in a clear case of self-defense. Unfortunately, Molars buddies do not see it that way and they will go beyond the call of duty to make Scully's life a living hell.<br />This is one of those books that if the bad guys had left well enough alone there would not be a novel. In this case, there is an extensive Internal Affairs investigation to bring Scully down. Shane's hand is forced and he investigates his former partner. He uncovers a conspiracy in the LAPD as well as the mayor's office.<br />If you do not try to look for logic in the story you might enjoy it. This book is pure escapist fiction where anything can happen. Lot of action, lot of chases and lot of double crossing. I liked this book, but I preferred KING CON.	2002-01-20
US	53045954	R2TF1MQR0Z4WW9	0312143931	38215593	Poet in the Gutter	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A great beginning	Sam Turner was out and down on his luck. He recently divorced his second wife and is now trying to put his life back in order. He joins a men's group and lies to the group telling them that he is a private investigator. Shortly thereafter he is hired as one and someone from the group asks him to track his wife whom he suspects of cheating. Seems easy enough until Turner's client is found dead. Sam knows it could not have been the wife since he has been tracking her all day. It is not until he investigates the case a bit further and finds out that his client was a victim of a serial killer.<br />This book appears to be the beginning of a new series. The main character is trying to get back on his feet and he is helping everyone he can. He turns from a nobody into a somebody in a short time. He now runs a detective agency with the help of acquaintances he has made along the way. They help him as well as each other. Most of the supporting characters are looking for a meaning to their lives and Sam helps to provide it. POET IN THE GUTTER is an excellent start for a promising new author.	2002-01-19
US	53045954	R1TM7KAHTQ3PVM	0671786040	630454203	Black Dog (Ben Cooper and Diane Fry, Book 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good Start	At the beginning of the novel, helicopters are searching the Peak District in northern England searching for missing 15-year-old, Laura Vernon. Detective Constable Ben Cooper is assigned to the case where it seems that the girl's parents are indifferent to their missing daughter. The townspeople are not much help, particularly Harry Dickinson who finds Laura's shoe and then her body.<br />Cooper is trying hard to fight his father's ghost, a cop killed on duty, as well as other personal demons. He is teamed-up with Detective Constable Diane Fry, a newcomer to Cooper's police precinct. She is ambitious, headstrong and manages to take the case away from Cooper. They are opposites in personality and there are moments of friction between them in deciding how to investigate the case. <br />It is a good start to what seems to be a promising new series. I would like to see a deeper exploration of Cooper's jealousy toward Fry. The ending in the book seemed a little forced. The guilty are charged and sent to jail but it almost seems like an afterthought. There is a theme of friendship and loyalty between two of the townspeople but I did not feel it while reading the novel. The book mostly explores the personalities of Cooper and Fry as well as the alienation they both feel with their lives. On another side, Laura Vernon's parents have a lot of secrets and it does not help that the townspeople do not like these newcomers in their village.<br />I liked this book and I am looking forward to reading DANCING WITH THE VIRGINS, Booth's next novel.	2002-01-16
US	53045954	R3TLTX6R62YTDY	0786889055	817260381	Voodoo River (Elvis Cole Novels)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Not a great way to know Elvis	My only experience with Robert Crais was reading DEMOLITION ANGEL. I discovered that aside from DEMOLITION ANGEL and HOSTAGE, he has a series of books starring Elvis Cole, a California Private Investigator and his partner, Joe Pike. Unfortunately, I started to learn about the characters in VOODOO RIVER instead of THE MONKEY'S RAINCOAT.<br />Cole is sent to Louisiana to investigate the adoption of a well-known television actress. He later discovers that the actress (as well as her birth mother) was being blackmailed. There is a second story involving the trafficking of illegal aliens which I ended a little to conveniently. One does not get to know much about the characters in this book. I had no idea what was Elvis' past, age or even a physical description. I heard a lot about Joe Pike but people keep telling me to read LA REQUIEM, to know more about Pike.<br />VOODOO RIVER is formulaic in which the action tells the story and just ignores the characters and their motivations. I acquired Elvis Cole's first appearance (THE MONKEY'S RAINCOAT) and I hope with this I might change my mind about Cole and get to know him a bit better. Crais has a lot of fans in Texas.	2002-01-15
US	53045954	R3A2A615U1W968	0786889055	817260381	Voodoo River (Elvis Cole Novels)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not a great way to know Elvis	My only experience with Robert Crais was reading DEMOLITION ANGEL. I discovered that aside from DEMOLITION ANGEL and HOSTAGE, he has a series of books starring Elvis Cole, a California Private Investigator and his partner, Joe Pike. Unfortunately, I started to learn about the characters in VOODOO RIVER instead of THE MONKEY'S RAINCOAT.<br />Cole is sent to Louisiana to investigate the adoption of a well-known television actress. He later discovers that the actress (as well as her birth mother) was being blackmailed. There is a second story involving the trafficking of illegal aliens which I ended a little to conveniently. One does not get to know much about the characters in this book. I had no idea what was Elvis' past, age or even a physical description. I heard a lot about Joe Pike but people keep telling me to read LA REQUIEM, to know more about Pike.<br />VOODOO RIVER is formulaic in which the action tells the story and just ignores the characters and their motivations. I acquired Elvis Cole's first appearance (THE MONKEY'S RAINCOAT) and I hope with this I might change my mind about Cole and get to know him a bit better. Crais has a lot of fans in Texas.	2002-01-15
US	53045954	R4GBNGJAPB9FT	0140291768	354903817	The Marx Sisters: A Kathy and Brock Mystery (Kathy and Brock Mysteries)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A satisfying read	Kathy Kolla is sent to Jerusalem Lane to investigate the suspicious death of an elderly woman named Meredith Winterbottom. She is surprised when she is teamed up with David Brock, a hotshot from Scotland Yard, who has been in the news lately for solving notorious cases. The author throws a few red herrings in the plot but in the end everything turns out right with the world.<br />I appreciate that the author split the book in two parts. In Part One, Maitland teams up Kolla and Brock in the first book of his series. He comes up with a reason to team them up and investigate the crime. It is not until Part Two that we learn the real reason that Brock wanted to meet Kolla. Kathy is not happy at first, but later understands the reasoning.<br />I liked the characters on this novel and am planning on trying to read the other three books in the series. The characters are fresh as well as human. Kolla is having an affair with a married man and she does not like it. There is still more to be learned about Brock. There were some hints near the end but it just makes me want to read THE MALCONTENTA and learn more about these detectives.	2002-01-14
US	53045954	R3LI75Q3AH6PH5	0312979533	52317828	A Place of Execution	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A masterpiece	This is my first Val McDermid novel and it definitely will not be my last. When I finished reading the book I had to take a breather to take in everything that happened in this story. It is thought provoking and disturbing. <br />It is December 1963. George Bennett, a newly promoted inspector, is sent to Scardale, a small hamlet in England, to investigate the disappearance of 13-year-old Alison Carter. Since this is Inspector Bennett's first case, he hunts high and low trying to find the whereabouts of the missing teenager. Everybody in town is very protective and they do not make the investigation easy for the police. They do not volunteer any information and one gets the feeling that everybody in town knows something that we do not. After a week's investigation, the police find evidence that suggests that Alison was raped and murdered. <br />Shortly thereafter, an arrest is made. The suspect is convicted and punished even though he claims to be innocent. Alison's body was never found but they still managed to find the suspect guilty. This could easily have been the end of the book but it is only the first three-quarters of the novel.<br />In the last quarter of the book thirty-five years have already passed. Catherine Heathcote, a journalist, manages to get George Bennett, now retired, to participate in a true crime book about the murder of Alison Carter. He agrees and collaborates in the writing of the book. It is not until the last possible moment that Bennett asks Heathcote not to publish the book. During a recent visit to Scardale he uncovered some new evidence that brings a whole lot of questions regarding the crime. He refuses to say anything more regarding the case.<br />Heathcote, not easily swayed, investigates. Her discovery has serious repercussions to a lot of people involved in McDermid's work. This is what make the book great and why I put it in my highly recommended list.	2002-01-11
US	53045954	R6BJAII5Z5RAE	0451160525	511631376	The Gunslinger (Dark Tower)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Errant Knight?	In NEEDFUL THINGS, Stephen King decided to end an era by making this book the last of the Castle Rock series. In the last decade of so, he has focused on a new series called The Dark Tower. Most of his latest novels have had some sort of crossover with the Dark Tower (HEARTS IN ATLANTIS, which is available in paperback). His latest novel is BLACK HOUSE that is a collaboration with Peter Straub. Mr. King let it know that some Dark Tower questions would be revealed in that book so I decided to reread The Dark Tower again by starting with THE GUNSLINGER.<br />This novel tells the story of the last of the gunslingers, a group of warriors similar to the Jedi knights in Star Wars. He is a man with a mission and it is the search of the elusive Man in Black. This story is similar to the errant knights stories (i.e. Don Quixote, El Cid, among others) from centuries ago. Our hero will walk in search of the Man in Black, going through old towns seeking help and will also meet Jake, a boy from the planet Earth. This is the beginning of the series and just like any beginning the reader will be left with questions. The main problem that I had was that I read this book about 15 years ago and I forgot a lot of details. I might try to read the series again before I tackle BLACK HOUSE. It might help me appreciate the novel even better.	2002-01-08
US	53045954	R3IO5WSI93MFQF	0786708387	810636083	Exile	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Read GARNETHILL first, you'll be glad you did	I recommend for anybody to read GARNETHILL first before starting EXILE. In Denise Mina's latest novel she recaps the sequences of her previous novel and reveals who the killer was in that book. Some questions that I had from GARNETHILL were explained here.<br />In this latest work, Maureen is working for a woman's shelter and trying to gain control of her life. She investigates the death of Ann Harris, a former client from the Scottish center, who was found beaten to death in London. As in most mystery books, things are not quite what they seem and Maureen is way over her head.<br />I enjoyed this book, learning a bit about domestic abuse and women's shelters. Mina has a way with words while describing characters and locations. I only suggest to anyone who is unfamiliar with Mina's work to start with GARNETHILL before beginning EXILE. You will feel richer for it.	2002-01-07
US	53045954	R14OD2TIMKBQUV	0395939186	753005234	The Best American Mystery Stories 2000 (The Best American Series)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Promising new authors	In this anthology, Donald E. Westlake includes a lot of new authors who have not yet published their first novel. I had trouble following some of the stories after reaching their conclusion (GHOSTS by David Beaty), but others show real promise for the future.<br />One of my favorite stories is MOTEL 66 by Barbara D'Amato. It is a fairly short story that packs a lot of suspense and intrigue. The story takes place at different points in time (1971, 1985, and 1999) in which two events that happened in 1971 come full circle in 1999. There is no real ending to this story except for the one in the reader's mind. This is what a good short story should be like. It should leave the reader wondering what will happen after all the stories secrets are revealed. Another one of my favorites is WRONG NUMBERS by Josh Pryor.<br />There are some other good stories in the anthology written by Dennis Lehane, Shel Silverstein and Jeffery Deaver.	2002-01-05
US	53045954	R2UQWV8UEW99Y2	0786706120	838231813	Garnethill	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A good Scottish novel	Denise Mina's first novel, GARNETHILL, is a good and honest crime novel. Her main character is Maureen O'Donnell, an emotionally battered woman, who is trying to gain control of her own life after recuperating from a nervous breakdown months before. She is working on a dead end job that she hates and found out recently that her lover, Douglas, is married. That day she decides to get drunk before going home to bed. When she wakes up the next morning with a hangover, she discovers Douglas tied to a chair and with his throat slit.<br />Maureen has very few people to stand up for her. The police are having trouble believing her story and are suspicious of her actions. She is estranged from her family due to an incident in her past as well as having an alcoholic mother. Ms. Mina does a good job relating O' Donnell's dysfunctional family showing the family dynamic and how everybody is willing to think the worst of Maureen without giving her the benefit of the doubt. Douglas was a doctor where Maureen was recuperating from her breakdown and having an affair with him. The whole book shows how the main character does not wish to become a victim and fighting tooth and nail for it. She becomes very defensive about her past and tries not to take any guff from anybody. She becomes so frustrated with everybody that she decides to do an investigation herself.<br />The main problem I faced with the novel is the resolution of the crime. I am not spoiling the book, but the problem I had was with the culprit (or guilty party) involved in Douglas' murder. There was no satisfying, clear-cut explanation for why that character committed its actions. It left me with several questions that will not be answered in this book. I think that this is something that makes GARNETHILL a better book. It forces one to focus more on Maureen O'Donnell's character than with her surroundings or supporting cast.<br />I am looking forward to read Ms. Mina's second novel, EXILE.  This book marks the return of Maureen and hopefully it might answer some of the questions I might have from this book.	2002-01-01
US	53045954	R98W97HC6SOE6	0316666009	30029813	1st to Die (Women's Murder Club)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	I am looking forwards the next one	\\"Philip Campbell\\" is a serial killer preying on newlyweds on their wedding day. Lindsay Boxer is a San Francisco Homicide detective who is battling her demons since being told that she has a life-threatening rare blood disorder. She is sent to investigate the case and it helps her cope physically as well as emotionally. During her work on the case she befriends Cindy Thomas, an up-and-coming crime beat reporter for a local San Francisco newspaper, who helps her with the investigation.<br />They, together with Claire Washburn, a county examiner, and Jill Bernhardt, an Assistant District Attorney, form a club called the Women's Murder Club. They pool their sources trying to help fight crime in the big city. They manage to work well together and trust each other.<br />I like the concept for Patterson's new series. It works well as an ensemble piece and each book could easily focus more on each particular character. We do not learn much about Claire and Cindy, but I am sure things will improve with each novel. I am looking forward to reading 2ND CHANCE as soon as its available.	2002-01-01
US	53045954	R1CAFUM7TRE8OQ	0395835836	702515999	The Best American Mystery Stories 1997	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Try the other books in the Mystery Stories series	I was disappointed with most of the stories in this anthology. The first half of the book had me interested, but midway through the stories, my passion for them waned.<br />My favorite story in the group was the first one (BLIND LEMON by Doug Allyn). It was a moving story in which two strangers reunite ten years later after getting their friend killed. Due to guilt as well as fear, they both go their separate ways trying to escape the tragedy. They see each other at a bar where one of them is performing. The story was very poignant and heartfelt. I wish Mr. Allyn success with his other works.<br />My main disappointment was with Jonathan Kellerman's THE THINGS WE DO FOR LOVE. It was a good story and it could have been a surprise to the reader. Unfortunately, it is in a book about mysteries. If things seem a little too ordinary three quarters of the book, then there must be a twist somewhere in the end. I think this story would have worked better in an anthology of love or family stories, as well as in a magazine guided towards women.<br />It is good to read short stories every once in a while to discover new and promising authors. As I previously stated, nothing really stands out in this particular anthology, however, I recommend the 1998 as well as the 1999 Best Mystery stories. You will find some pleasant surprises in them.	2001-12-30
US	53045954	R1NSY2YYZHK9G1	0671047329	644541461	The Third Option	Books	4	9	11	N	N	The beginning of a major storyline	In THE THIRD OPTION, Vince Flynn brings back his character of Mitch Rapp, whom he made famous in TRANSFER OF POWER. In this novel, Rapp is sent to assassinate a German citizen by order of the President of the United States. It is a top-secret mission for which the President will have total deniability should be Mitch be exposed to the situation. Things do not go quite as plan and Mitch manages to escape from Germany without being caught.<br />Flynn exposes a Washington conspiracy in which certain individuals want to embarrass the President as well as the CIA. The head of the CIA is dying of cancer and the Senate and the House of Representatives are discrediting his chosen successor. The action in this book is taut and suspenseful. I enjoyed it.<br />The author brings backs characters from his previous works and have them play important roles in the novel. He is preparing them up for the continuation of the storyline, which I assume will be reflected in SEPARATION OF POWER. This story does have a self-contained beginning and end, but some readers might not like that the main villain does not get his comeuppance. I think it is important just to meet the character, see what he is capable off and hope that he gets his `just desserts' in the next book.	2001-12-26
US	53045954	RK1TJIGM113CW	0395939151	389303269	The Best American Mystery Stories 1999	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Thought-provoking stories	I enjoyed this collection of the best mystery stories published in 1999. There are some familiar authors in this book such as Phillip Margolin, Lawrence Block, and Jeffery Deaver. These authors stand out for themselves so I will not comment on them but make note on the overlooked authors.<br />My two favorite stories are SACRIFICE by L. L. Thrasher and OUT THERE IN THE DARKNESS by Ed Gorman. The first one involves a mother's extreme measures to protect her daughter's innocence. It is L. L. Thrasher's first short story and an excellent one at that. The story is heartbreaking but it makes you think twice of how precious innocence is to a child. Ignorance is bliss but the truth here is very dangerous.<br />OUT THERE IN THE DARKNESS involves a group of poker buddies who stop a burglar from robbing their house. They decide not to call the police but to handle things themselves and try to get information from the criminal. Everything then backfires and the four friends are now fighting to stay alive. One of the themes here is the danger of becoming a vigilante and the consequences one must pay.<br />Overall, most of the stories in this collection are good and I recommend it as an aperitif before trying out a novel by one of the authors. I would like to make also an honorary mention with SAFE by Gary A. Braunbeck. It will make you think twice about cleaning houses.	2001-12-24
US	53045954	R37GFBSKDN23GB	0312874529	871471826	Retribution: A Lew Fonesca Mystery (Lew Fonesca Novels)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Welcome back, Mr. Fonesca	Early this year I was pleasantly surprised when I read VENGEANCE by Stuart Kaminsky. I was expecting a short, quick and probably forgettable novel. Boy, was I mistaken. The characters are very down-to-earth trying to find some happiness with their lives. All the characters have a point of weakness (alcoholism, loneliness, anger, among others) that they are trying to conquer in their lives day by day. The main character in this series is Lew Fonesca, a process server who is now living in Sarasota while trying to escape his former life in Chicago. He is trying to move forward ever since the accidental death of his wife Catherine. Through his work, he meets a lot of people who later become his friends as well as allies.<br />In RETRIBUTION, most of the characters from the previous novel returns including Adele, a runaway who was the main focus in VENGEANCE. In this book a few months have passed. Adele is living a happier life, going to school, and winning prizes in writing competitions. A reclusive author (a la J. D. Salinger) befriends her and tries to help her with her writing. A few months later, Adele runs away from the author's house, stealing all his unpublished works and threatening to destroy every single page slowly. Fonesca is on the case because he is truly concerned about Adele. He cares for her and also has a support network of friends that also cares for Adele. The bad news is that most people of the people Adele encounters during her escapade are winding up dead. Lew is going everything that is necessary to bring Adele back to safety as well as bring more stability to his life.<br />My only complaint about this book is the self-righteousness of Adele's character. She refuses to tell anyone why she is doing what she is doing until the very end. Her behavior was a little extreme and I would have liked to read more about the circumstances that led to her actions. All this is explained in about two pages of text which leaves the reader a bit in the lurch. <br />For everything else, I like the Lew Fonesca series and I intend to continue it as long as I can. I am also going to try to read  Kaminsky's other works to see if I feel the same way about his other series characters.	2001-12-22
US	53045954	R3PMJ85I88NZUW	0395835852	937603272	The Best American Mystery Stories 1998 (The Best American Series)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A nice read	Doing a review on an anthology is not easy since there are a multitude of stories written by several authors. This book comprises a collection of the best mystery stories of 1998. Sue Grafton was right in saying most of the stories are crime novels, which is precisely what they are. I was pleasantly surprised by two of the stories, CHILD SUPPORT by David Ballard and SECRETS by Janice Law.<br />In the first story, the author takes a simple child custody story as told by the point of view of the father. He then gets into an extraordinary circumstance that jeopardizes his relationship with his son. What makes this story interesting is that it is narrated by the ex-husband, leaving the reader with the preconceptions left by the storyteller. One must remember a lesson given to us by Agatha Christie in some of her books. It is never to take the narrator's story as face value. It is not till one reaches the end that one gets the rest of the story.<br />SECRETS was another delightful surprise. It is a revenge story several years in the making. Its main theme is the power of motherhood and the extremes that they will go in protecting their children.<br />Another interesting aspect of this book is a story by Stuart Kaminsky called FIND MIRIAM. It is an abbreviated version of his novel VENGEANCE. I assume he wrote the short story before he decided to make it a novel. It takes a genius to implement that same story in a novel and I think Kaminsky pulls it off.	2001-12-21
US	53045954	R3B1NTNYQ1Q1HF	0451183339	177360042	Precipice	Books	3	4	5	N	N	I wished I liked it but I did not.	I really wanted to like PRECIPICE, but no matter how hard I tried I just did not like it. Most of the characters are not whom or what they claim to be and we know that the protagonist is portraying someone she is not. All it did was confuse me more and more and made it hard for me to enjoy it.<br />The only other book written by Savage that I have read is VALENTINE. That novel really kept me guessing and I enjoyed it from beginning to end. (I, however, am not interested in seeing the `movie'). I have SCAVENGER in my pile of books to read and hopefully I will like that one better.	2001-12-18
US	53045954	RI682LWM2Q6QH	0345446976	693427296	24/7	Books	2	4	6	N	N	24/7 fails on so many levels	The book starts when a last-minute contestant, Dana Kirsten, arrives at Vassa Island to participate in the latest reality show called 24/7. In this game contestants are stranded on an island that is totally surrounded by hidden cameras as well as cameras the contestants wear at all time. Every three days, the viewing public would vote one person of the island. If any contestant acquires any 'safety stones' during the game, he or she gets to remove 10% of the vote already accumulated for every stone collected. The last person standing will win two million dollars and their heart's desire. <br />The problem starts when everybody who is not a contestant drops dead AT THE SAME TIME, due to an ebola-like virus that every contestant is infected with. At that moment, a garbled computer voice identifies himself as CONTROL. It states that the game is in play and that every day at noon, a contestant will be killed at the end of each viewer vote. The remainder will get a 24-hour vaccine that will help them live for another day.<br />In my opinion the book is a royal mess. There are too many characters involved, too many unrelated situations, too much implausibility. Where can one find a virus that works at precisely twelve o'clock? Where were the producers of the show while this was going on? How come nobody had a clue that the 'safety stone' games were going to be dangerous? Didn't the game builders figured there was something dangerous with the sets they were constructing? When did everybody figure out that Zodiac signs were involved?<br />There were too many scenes that were skipped or ignored. There were too many settings that were a little too convenient. The author wants to show how extreme voyeuristic television has become but he rarely talks about the viewers. The only time we know about the viewers is when the find which of the 638 cameras will show a contestant stripping. How is the public going to be ashamed with voting somebody for death if we don't get to see howthey vote? <br />There is so much more I could say about this book but I am going to stop here. If you want to read about a fictional reality show, I recommend the Richard Bachman (a.k.a. Stephen King) novella, THE RUNNING MAN. Forget about the Schwarzenegger movie. The message from the book is not the same as in the film.	2001-12-16
US	53045954	R37HNC4JY8YFUL	038097729X	432838089	Paradise Lost (Joanna Brady Mysteries, Book 9)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Magnificent	This one of my all-time favorite series. One of the reasons that I appreciate this series is that I have read the first book in the series, DESERT HEAT, first. I liked it so much that I managed to read every other book in the series in sequence getting to know each of the main characters well. One reason the series is good is that an ordinary woman (Joanna Brady) becomes an extraordinary woman (Sheriff Joanna Brady) by circumstances beyond her control, but still finds the time to become an ordinary woman (a loving mother to her daughter, Jenny as well as newlywed wife to her new husband, Butch). PARADISE LOST is my all-time favorite book in this series. (...)<br />In this novel, a time of a month and a half has passed since DEVIL'S CLAW. Joanna and Butch are back from their honeymoon in France and are now adjusting to married life. During a Girl Scout camping trip, Jenny (Joanna's daughter) and her tentmate find a body of a woman, while Joanna is eight hours away from town attending a Sheriff's convention as well as attending the wedding of Butch's friend. Later, Jenny's friend is killed in a hit-and-run accident and that's when things start to get dicey.<br />Joanna Brady has matured gracefully from a grieving policeman's widow to Sheriff of Cochise County in Arizona. She is no longer a neophyte and knows how to give orders and get things done. It is always a pleasure to see her friends, Maryanne Maculyea, Jeff Daniels, Kristin, among others. These characters also change as each book comes along and one is always wondering what's going to happen next. I was disappointed that Angie Kellogg did not make an appearance in this book but it is the richness Ms. Jance gives to all her other characters that makes it a special series.<br />(...)	2001-12-16
US	53045954	R1KOXX3N5RLKC3	0684849046	754969196	The Deadhouse	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Did not enjoy it as much as I did  her previous works	The book starts with a `staged murder' of an abused wife in order to fool her dangerous husband. Unfortunately, a few hours after he is arrested, his wife is strangled and thrown into an elevator shaft. The question is: Did the husband have a backup plan to kill his wife?<br />I will not spoil the book, but I was unhappy with the story itself. It is good to familiarize myself with the characters that I left behind in COLD HIT, however, the story is not really about them. It involves an abandoned hospital, located in Roosevelt Island, where very sick immigrants would be taken in order to die. Lola Dakota (the aforementioned wife) has an interest in this place that will be made clear at the end of the book. There are conspiracies, hit-and-runs, and old secrets involved in the mystery of the abandoned hospital. <br />Alexandra Cooper (Fairstein's protagonist) goes through the paces to solve the problem in this book but I think it would have preferred it had this book not been part of the series. I enjoyed Cooper in the other books and I suggest you try them.	2001-12-14
US	53045954	R1SRY2NBHW6H7O	1586210998	706464487	Suzanne's Diary for Nicholas	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Lovely tearjerker	Katie is very much in love with her boyfriend, Matt. On the day she holds an important party for him in his honor, he makes an abrupt departure. He leaves on her doorstep a diary written by his former wife that is dedicated to their son, Nicholas. Matt leaves Katie a note asking her to read this diary in order to understand why he had to leave party so quickly.<br />I listened to the unabridged audiobook version of this book. Granted I had a cold, but I was left crying like a baby after listening to this heartbreaking story. The story as written by Suzanne was very emotional and her deep feelings and thoughts are beautifully portrayed in this work. It does explain a lot but I would think that someone as `wonderful' as Matt would have tried to talk to Katie at some point. If my review makes me a sap for liking it, so be it.	2001-12-13
US	53045954	RNO4Q6KIHS1NR	0385334834	51290485	Writ of Execution	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Too convoluted	WRIT OF EXECUTION begins right where MOVE TO STRIKE ends, and all I was left with when I finished was a big `huh?'. <br />In the latest in the Nina Reilly series, Ms. Reilly helps a jackpot winner who does not wish to be identified because she is afraid of being found by her harasser. If this were the only primary story in this book I would probably had given it a higher rating. However, Perri O'Shaughnessy also includes in this book a casino fraud, a personal secret her client is hiding, a mystery illness, an unstable killer and gambler who wants what is \\"rightfully his\\", a teenage boy suffering from leukemia and finally, Nina's relationship with her detective, Paul Van Wagoner.<br />There were too many things going on with this story that at the end I did not care how everything turned out. I probably would have more empathy with the leukemia patient if he did not appear only sporadically in the book.<br />Will this book deter me from reading the next O' Shaughnessy book? Probably not. Their other books are still good. I strongly recommend INVASION OF PRIVACY and MOTION TO SUPPRESS.	2001-12-12
US	53045954	R37J4EDO3BZZZF	0399147357	486821945	Dead Sleep	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Excellent novel	With the exception of BLACK CROSS, I have read every Greg Iles' novels. DEAD SLEEP is one of his best books ever written right after 24 HOURS and THE QUIET GAME.<br />In his latest novel, his main character is Jordan Glass, a professional photographer and journalist. During the past year and a half she has been taking unnecessary risks in her job and losing focus of her life. Thirty years ago her father went missing while working as a photojournalist during the Vietnam War and a year ago, a serial kidnapper based in New Orleans, kidnapped her identical twin sister. She left behind two kids and a husband and up to that point the FBI had no clues as to her whereabouts.<br />While trying to put her life together, Jordan goes to Hong Kong to work on her dream project, publishing a book on her pictures of weather phenomena. A friend of hers encourages a visit to a museum where she can see some beautiful watercolors on display. During her sightseeing she can't help but wonder as to why everybody in the building was staring at her. It is not until she sees an exhibit titled `The Sleeping Women' when her life is torn asunder. This particular exhibit involves several paintings of nude female models that appear to be dead in the pictures. Jordan's sister is one of them. This takes her on an nightmarish ride in which she works with the NOPD and the FBI in trying to find the person responsible for those pictures and as the fate of her sister and the other missing girls. It seems each portrait represents a missing New Orleans woman kidnapped during the same time frame a Jordan's sister.<br />The story is very suspenseful and it kept me up until the wee hours trying to finish this book. I really enjoyed the characters in the book. My only complaint with the book involved the identity of the painter. I thought his reason for his madness was a little clichd in mystery novels. Do not let this stop you, it is still a great book.	2001-12-10
US	53045954	R2X63VO53N5P67	0688156142	9361018	The Forgotten: A Peter Decker/Rina Lazarus Novel	Books	4	15	17	N	N	A thought-provoking novel	One of the joys of reading a series is reconnecting with old friends and seeing what changes have occurred from one book to the next.<br />In THE FORGOTTEN, Lieutenant Peter Decker is investigating a hate crime involving the desecration of a synagogue. Decker manages to solve the case but he's left with an uncomfortable resolution. After being caught, the guilty party does restitution and then six month later goes to a summer camp for troubled rich kids. It is then that he is killed together with his therapist. Naturally, Decker feels that this is retribution from the cohort who may also have been involved in the act of vandalism. Lets just say that it does not turn out that way.<br />The second plot in the book is of more interest that involves Decker's youngest stepson Jacob. Since the beginning of Kellerman's Peter Decker/Rina Lazarus series he has been troubled due to certain circumstances in previous novels. He is now a recovering drug-addict who is trying hard to make amends for everything he's done. The bad part about it in this book is that he is familiar with the players involved in Peter's case. Something he is not to thrilled about. In the end he manages to help the police solve the case and have some one-on-one time with his stepdad. They talk in the end and it end in a funny note. In essence I liked the book and I recommend it.	2001-12-07
US	53045954	RFRKVBYY5AYBI	0312976437	810705234	A Dangerous Road	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Dangerous Road, An Excellent Book	This book is one of the best novels I have read this year and has the well-deserved distinction of having been nominated for the Edgar Award for best mystery. The Bottoms by Joe R. Lansdale is good but I consider Ms. Nelscott's novel to be better.<br />Her main character is Smokey Dalton, a jack-of-all-trades who also finds work as a private investigator in Memphis, Tennessee. We learn that he was a former school classmate with Martin Luther King, Jr. and he is as happy as he can be living his life. Unfortunately, his world is about to be turned upside-down when he meets Laura Hathaway, who flew all the way from Chicago to look for him. It seems her mother left Smokey an inheritance for $10,000 and she wants to know why her mother willed him that money. He later discovers that Laura has a lot of questions regarding her mother and she hires Dalton to investigate. What Dalton discovers is a sinister connection with Ms. Hathaway that will change their lives forever.<br />The story takes place during the late sixties when Martin Luther King was active with the sanitation strikes occurring in the South. Dalton experiences prejudice, hatred, violence and turmoil throughout the entire book which in the end will only make him stronger.<br />Ms. Nelscott does an excellent job in developing this character that keeps the reader entranced to the plot. There is also a story of a little boy whose mother abandoned him and his brother is contributing to his possible delinquency by involving him as a drug courier and making him cut school. Dalton does his best to try to save this boy.<br />There is so much I would like to say about this book, but it is better if you read it and make up your own minds. You will be glad you did. I am also looking forward to reading Smokey Dalton's next book SMOKE-FILLED ROOMS which is now available.	2001-12-06
US	53045954	R25LSG7ISGWCN5	0375412557	257610007	Death in Holy Orders (Adam Dalgliesh Mystery Series #11)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Trouble at St. Anselm's	There is no denying that P. D. James is one of the best living mystery writers of all time. In her latest work, DEATH IN HOLY ORDERS she sends her main character, Commander Adam Dalgliesh, to a small theological college in England named St. Anselm.<br />Dalgliesh has spent several happy years of his youth there and the place has special memories for him. In this particular case, he is sent there on business to investigate the death of a young student at the school. The school is suffering a lot of setbacks because there is talk that the Church is planning on closing St. Anselm down. Things go from bad to worse when an Archdeacon is killed inside a chapel.<br />The characters in this book are not flat. They are multidimensional where we get to see the weaknesses or flaws each character tries to hide. As always most of P. D. James books are not quick reads but one does enjoy it. <br />If you like this book, I recommend you try P. D. James' previous novel A CERTAIN JUSTICE. It was one of the most superb novels I have ever read.	2001-12-04
US	53045954	R1BPQTK0UF75M8	0375412557	257610007	Death in Holy Orders (Adam Dalgliesh Mystery Series #11)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Trouble at St. Anselm's	There is no denying that P. D. James is one of the best living mystery writers of all time. In her latest work, DEATH IN HOLY ORDERS she sends her main character, Commander Adam Dalgliesh, to a small theological college in England named St. Anselm's.<br />Dalgliesh has spent several happy years of his youth there and the place has special memories for him. In this particular case, he is sent there on business to investigate the death of a young student at the school. The school is suffering a lot of setbacks because there is talk that the Church is planning on closing St. Anselm down. Things go from bad to worse when an Archdeacon is killed inside a chapel.<br />The characters in this book are not flat. They are multidimensional where we get to see the weaknesses or flaws each character tries to hide. As always most of P. D. James books are not quick reads but one does enjoy it. <br />If you like this book, I recommend you try P. D. James' previous novel A CERTAIN JUSTICE. It was one of the most superb novels I have ever read.	2001-12-04
US	53045954	R20JJSGTRGQ33F	0316693235	147933002	Violets Are Blue ~ Detective Alex Cross Series	Books	3	1	1	N	N	From bank robbers to 'vampires'	At the end of ROSES ARE RED Alex Cross suffers a great loss after solving a case involving some unusual bank robberies. It is also at the end of the book where the reader learns who was the Mastermind of those crimes. However, Detective Cross is not privy to this information just yet.<br />VIOLETS ARE BLUE continues where the last book left off. In this case, Cross is investigating a rash of brutal killings involving wild tigers and `vampires' while the Mastermind keeps taunting him with harassing phone calls. It is not necessary to know whom the Mastermind is in order to enjoy the book but I would recommend one read ROSES ARE RED before jumping to this book.<br />Unfortunately, I cannot say that I loved this book. The `vampire' subplot reads more like filler before the showdown between Cross and Mastermind. I was having trouble making sense of the vampire story. I could not empathize with the characters involved, what their motives were and the reasons for their actions. I guess I was just expecting more.<br />The book does tie up some loose ends from previous works and does whet ones appetite for the next book.	2001-12-01
US	53045954	R3BC0DGJDUZAVQ	0316693235	147933002	Violets Are Blue ~ Detective Alex Cross Series	Books	3	0	0	N	N	From bank robbers to 'vampires'	At the end of ROSES ARE RED Alex Cross suffers a great loss after solving a case involving some unusual bank robberies. It is also at the end of the book where the reader learns who was the Mastermind of those crimes. However, Detective Cross is not privy to this information just yet.<br />VIOLETS ARE BLUE continues where the last book left off. In this case, Cross is investigating a rash of brutal killings involving wild tigers and `vampires' while the Mastermind keeps taunting him with harassing phone calls. It is not necessary to know whom the Mastermind is in order to enjoy the book but I would recommend one read ROSES ARE RED before jumping to this book.<br />Unfortunately, I cannot say that I loved this book. The `vampire' subplot reads more like filler before the showdown between Cross and Mastermind. I was having trouble making sense of the vampire story. I could not empathize with the characters involved, what their motives were and the reasons for their actions. I guess I was just expecting more.<br />The book does tie up some loose ends from previous works and does whet one's appetite for the next book.	2001-12-01
