US	53040707	R2VT1WJDEW9A64	0521460867	83814155	Pattern Recognition and Neural Networks	Books	4	16	16	N	N	not for the faint at heart, but such a pleasure to read	Let me start by saying that this book assumes a lot of background, especially in statistics. It dives into the math right away without even a hint or a gentle slope. But what I appreciate is that math is never used for its own sake, it is always justified. The book starts with the introduction to the problems neural nets are to be applied to - pattern recognition task. It proceeds to the elements of statistical decision theory, then goes up to linear discriminant analysis and perceptrons, then up you go to feed-forward neural nets. Non-parametric models and tree-based classifiers are covered next. Belief networks and unsupervised methods (MDS, clustering, etc..) follow. Coverage is extensive, although I would like to see more in the areas of unsupervised learning, which is quite foundational to the whole business.<br />What sells me on this book quite frankly is that is always keeps an eye on a real-world example. No model or algorithm is introduced without a real-world problem it was intended to solve. You would be better served by the Bishop book (Neural Networks for Pattern Recognition, by C.Bishop ISBN:0198538642) if you are looking for a quick introduction. I would say Ripley's book is the <it>perfect second book on the subject</it>.<br />I must aplaud the editors and designers of the book. A book itself, apart from the material it covers, is an aestetically most pleasent creation for the somewhat dry subject. Its use of margins is a piece of art - margins are wide, accessible, important points are highlighted there, and you can get to the needed point by flipping the pages quickly. The quality of paper is very good, the book opens wells, and holds its form very well. If you take it seriously and use it often, these qualities will gain in importance.	2004-03-02
US	53040707	R2DYWY8AC8NI24	0299102947	540759192	The Bloodless Revolution: England, 1688	Books	5	2	3	N	N	extensive and non-biased study	Stuart E. Prall's &quot;The Bloodless Revolution&quot; is an extensive and non-biased study of the seminal constitutional developments in 17th century England; which defined the constitutional monarchy in Britain in the age when absolutism reigned supreme elsewhere in the world. Author prepares the scene for the revolution by explaining relationship between king and the Parliament throughout Stuart dynasty starting from James I, thought Long Parliament, Civil War, Protectorate, Restoration, last years of Charles II, and the many encroachment on liberties and mistakes of James II which ultimately led to Glorious Revolution. <br />Emphasis is on developments in the legal system and relationship between multiple religious institutions and political parties during and after the Restoration period.<br />One extended quote from the book might give you a flavor of the level of scholarship and insights this book will offer. <br />&quot;The medieval and Tudor view of the dispensing power was premised on the distinction between malum prohibitum (a prohibited evil) and malum per se (an evil in itself). The distinction was essentially medieval, and the foundation was divine law and/or natural law. Restrictions considered man-made (malum prohibitum) could be dispensed with. Restrictions that were thought to have been authored by God or Nature (malum per se) were not to be dispensed with. These distinctions permeated both the secular and the ecclesiastical structures of the medieval worlds. The Tudor era, especially after the English Reformation, saw the gradual secularization of the political and legal thought and the gradual erosion of the distinction , because the whole conception of divine and natural law was one of the victims of the new age of science and its concomitant mechanical laws of nature, which were coming to the fore in the seventeenth century. One result of the pre-1640 struggle for sovereignty and the constitutional struggle of the Puritan Revolution itself hasbee the triumph of the principle that sovereign power was identical with the lawmaking, or legislative, power. Neither the Long Parliament or Protectorate felt any divine or natural limitation upon their ultimate freedom to exercise total legislative authority.  The lesson of the Restoration had been that the supreme or sovereign legislative authority did exist in the English state, and that it existed in the triple-headed institution of the King-in-Parliament.  The problem was very complex. Because if the king-in-Parliament can make or unmake any and all laws, then there is no longer any practical distinction between the malum prohibitum and malum per se.  All laws are merely malum prohibitum. The state is supreme, not God or Nature. The result is that the king could now feel free, at least in theory, to dispense with any law, while those who might oppose his particular use of this power ... would be thrown back upon the old medieval distinction between the human and the divine. English constitutional development was to be unique in seventeen-century Europe in that these same intellectual tendencies on the Continent were indeed leading to just this justification for royal absolutism, while in England the struggle for power between the king and Parliament would continue unabated ...&quot;	2004-02-28
US	53040707	RO2GJ8X8MW0KW	0837175089	711379523	Grey Eminence.	Books	5	16	18	N	N	morality and politics	Aldous Huxley's little book &quot;Grey Eminence&quot; has the brilliance of the protracted essay, brevity of the vast historical exposition and the breath of coverage which embraces 400 years of recent European History. &quot;Grey Emmince&quot; is a spiritual and historical biography of François Le Clerc du Tremblay, a French nobleman of the 17th century who as a Capuchin monk  became a contemplative, advanced enough in the world of spirituality to became a founding farther of a new monastic order. At  the same time he was a right-hand man and a designated successor of Cardinal Richelieu. As Huxley claims, Farther Joseph's  policies contributed to the protraction of 30 year war and immeasurable suffering of the population the Holy Roman Empire  whose lands were devastated during this generation-long war.<br />Father Joseph is thus an enigmatic figure. A man of God and an original power politician. How is that possible? According to Huxley, father Joseph was able to convince himself of the doctrine of the divine rights of Kings and of the divine origin of  the French monarchy in particular. What was good for France was desired by God. And more, if the acts of power politician are practiced together &quot;active annihilation&quot; of those acts in the contemplation of divine Godhead, then they attain a moral  power and meaning. Curious doctrine, but perhaps not so distant of the realities of the contemporary power politics.<br />Huxley historical exposition on which background the biography is plaid out are vivid, interesting and accurate. Huxley also devotes some time to the compare and contrast of Catholic contemplative practices of the time of the Counter-Reformation and  modern Buddhist practices (which the author himself indulged in). This will be of interest to the modern reader, one would  hope. <br />The conclusion of the story of Father Joseph is bittersweet. At end power politics destroyed the former contemplative life,  and the union with God became more and more problematic. And so the partise of active annihilation, and thus justification  for the actions of the politician. He became one of the most hated people in Europe of his generation. At the same time, if  one looks at the achievements of the &quot;Grey Eminence&quot; France was actually much better off for it. <br />At the end it is appropriate to quote pope Urban VIII who said the following about Richelieu - &quot;If there is a God, Cardinal Richelieu will have much to answer for. If not, he has done very well&quot;.	2004-01-10
US	53040707	R1238E8OTGPAKG	0395177111	669379389	The Hobbit (or There and Back Again)	Books	5	9	13	N	N	pleasure to read, great teaser for the &quot;Lord of the Rings&quot;	Tolkien's &quot;Hobbit&quot; is an important precursor story for the &quot;Lord of The Rings&quot; trilogy. Bilbo, Gandalf, Gollum and mostly important the story of the Ring are introduced in this book. There are also a whole bunch of interesting infromation about the dwarfs and the elves, about ents, Kingdom of Mirkwood and all sorts of captivating magic.<br />This particular edition is a pure pleasure to read. It is right in all proportions, smells nice, opens well, printed nicely and have some great illustrations. Great as a gift or a bedtime story read! Enjoy....	2004-01-09
US	53040707	R648WRGQ0IJCM	0395193958	669379389	The Lord of the Rings	Books	5	6	6	N	N	elegant, illustrated wonderfull epic story	It is not possible to add anything to the review of the story of the &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot; rather then to say that this is a spectacular epic story of the mythological proportions. Tolkien was motivated by a variety of linguistic, antropological and mythtological factors to bring us the Universe of the Middle Earth. As such this achievement is without a precedence in world literature.<br />To the point of this particular edition. It contains original illustrations by Tolkien himself, with the typesettings simular to the original edition. Although the book is quite large (1000+ pages) it opens and holds well and the paper quality is oustanding for the price.	2004-01-07
US	53040707	R255VHTBIOZ4GM	0300089155	938658900	The Last European War: September 1939 - December 1941	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Spirit over matter..	The Last European War by John Lukacs<BR>\\"The Last European War\\" by John Lukacs describes the formative stages of the WWII, times of 1939 before Hitler's invasion of Russia when the war was dominated by the struggle between Britain and Germany. Drawn from and partially re-hashing the material found in some of his earlier book, John Lukacs paints a picture of power struggle with some master strokes worthy of a pen of a historian and the canvas of a novelist.<br />Lukacs book is comprised of 2 part. First, a short one, tells the historical events of the period starting just before September 1, 1939 and ending with the guns of Barbarossa in the East on June 22, 1941. His main emphasis is the description of the personalities of Hitler and Churchill, touching on Stalin and briefly on Roosevelt. Second part, which is the main body and emphasis of the text, is a study of how people coped during the war from economic, social, psychological and anthropological perspectives.<br />Lukacs advances the main thesis of his career, retold in most of his 18 books on history, that the advance of nationalism not communism was the main event of the 20th century history; and that the main lesson of it is prevalence of mind over matter. Philosophy of neo-idealism, of belief in primary importance of spirit in the conduct of human affairs, the fruit of primarily German romanticism were horrible catastrophes of 20th century. <br />John Lukacs has just a wonderful touch of novelistic flair, where he would briefly interrupt a technical description of the diplomatic struggles with the description of the beatifull night full of starts. His appreciation of oratory of the two main rivals (and both Hitler and Churchill were brilliant public speakers) leads to some of the best pages of this book.<br />Better then any other historian I've read, John Lukacs is a master of a footnote. On average each page is supplemented by at least 3 footnotes; sometimes footnote text is twice as large as the main text on the page. Whether it is a fault of the editors whom Lukacs bullied into submission by this fame, or something else, I do not know. What I know is that it makes it for some fragmentary, oftern confused and difficult read. This is the only major criticism of style, and I am penalizing this book one star for it.	2003-10-10
US	53040707	R3UJFM7QMELELF	0670030082	771800527	Interrogations: The Nazi Elite in Allied Hands, 1945	Books	4	24	26	N	N	insight into the political machine and crimes of the Nazis	\\"Interrogations\\" by Richard Overy is an important book concentrating on the question of prosecution of the perpetrators of Nazi crimes during the WWII during the Nuremberg Trials. The book additionally claims a few insights into the character of Hitler political and military leadership, organization of Nazi state, character of Hitler's minions and the effects of these structures of German people. <br />First half of the book concerns itself with some legal questions facing the Nuremberg trials, dealing mostly with the ambiguous nature of the tribunal as both legislative and judicial authority, questions of legitimacy of the trial and reconciliation of French and Russian \\"rational\\" legal traditions and precepts of Anglo-Saxon common law. Additionally, political problems and disagreements between the Allies on the nature of persecution (although not punishment) are presented in some detail. Later, main defendants and their careers are introduced and the narrative moves to the trial itself.<br />In the second half, one finds affidavits and interview records for major defendants dealing with the nature and character of leadership and decision making in Nazi dictatorship. Most of them deal with the enigma of Hitler and his hold on military, economic and ideological character of Nazi state. Familiar arguments of \\"psychological\\" hold the superhuman strength of Furhers character, and the personal nature of the power structures in Nazi Germany are presented. <br />Overall, I find the sections dealing with the nature and legal aspects of persecution the most interesting. Unfortunately, the book suffers from the duality of purpose; one could not expect the exhaustive treatment of both the legal issues facing the Allies and nature of War in the same volume. Ad-mixture of primary sources as the Appendix is useful, if however diluting of the main points. One has a feeling that those were added to increase the size of the book, since they lack extensive indexing and other researchtools one expects from the professional book in history.	2003-06-15
US	53040707	R2XG96EHVG2HS	1566630193	225330296	The Hedgehog and the Fox: An Essay on Tolstoy's View of History	Books	5	39	45	N	N	Tolstoy's views on history elucidated	Sir Isaiah Berlin has written a critical acclaim of the historic views of famous Russian novelist Leo Tolstoy as expressed in one of his masterpieces \\"War and Piece\\". In 'The Hedgehog and The Fox' (1953), Dr. Berlin compares and contracts the monist and pluralist historical philosophies. According to Archilochus \\"The fox knows many things, but the hedgehog knows one big thing.\\" This can be interpreted that there is a philosophy of a single undiminished holistic truth or principle governing all history, or there is a myriad little ideas, truths and inclinations which together govern mens historical experience. <br />Tolstoy, according to Berlin, is a fox (whose talent is by the way in precisely being a fox), who is however convinced in the ways of the hedgehog. Tolstoy is at his greatest when he describes the subtle undertones of human existence, these barely perceptible little differences which makes living so full and colorful, range of emotions and feelings. He does not believe, however, that this is all that is, and insists on some ill-defined fundamental truth. This makes his writing wooden, unhistorical, and simplistic at times.   <br />Berlin makes a perceptive observations on the interest of Tolstoy's in some of the figures of Counter-Enlightenment (such as Maestre and Vico). These proponents of the view of the world which denies all-pervasive powers of reductionist science and allocates the central place to a simple idea (e.g. Christian moral idea) are closer to Tolstoy; and from this point of view and interest Tolstoy's last \\"religious\\" period owes its inspiration. Berlin shows Tolstoy as a tragic genius riddled with contradictions and frustrations of misapprehension of his enormous talents in inability to say what he wanted to say the most - paint a true picture of human historical experience. <br />Style of Berlin's polemic is as always colorful, insightful, supremely observant and scholarly. Essay is no longer then 75 pages and would make for a delightful Sunday afternoon reading. Highly recommended!	2003-05-28
US	53040707	RES8JQHMGQHHF	0393097986	225990568	German's Aims in the First World War	Books	5	54	62	N	N	exhaustive exploration of Germany's War Aims in WWI	Fritz Fisher \\"Germany's War Aims in the First World War\\" dwells on the tremendous amount of material collected primarily from the archives of the Central powers. It deals with one topic, and deals with it in methodical and exhaustive manner -  a continuation of policy of War Aims of the Imperial Germany during the period immediately preceding and throughout the First World War.  Germany, only united within the memory of the generation of 1914, was fighting the war not only for its rightful place as a European Great Power, but for a leading, pre-eminent place in the European and by extension the World balance of power. Germany was aiming to displace Britain as a traditional power broker in Europe, unite Austria-Hungary and other Central European powers in the economic and geo-political unit known as MittleEuropa, dominate Russia on its Eastern border and France on its Western.  Bethman-Hollweg's (Chancellor for most of the War) vision of the post-war World was Germany dominating continental Europe, and 4 Great Powers (Germany, Britain, USA and Russia) sharing the World. France was to be eliminated as a World Power, Britain as a traditional European Power broker, and Russian desires for the warm sea port of Constantinople and expansion into Persian Golf to be forever denied. <br />Fisher shows an incredible tenacity, determination and consistency of the War Aims policy from 1914 until 1918.  Clearly Germany is to be primarily blamed (perhaps together with Russia) for the outbreak of the war; but once the war started her aims never waived. Germany's War aims were essentially annexationist, aggressive and thriving for world dominance. With France she strived to no less then for elimination of that country as a Great Power, with Britain via annexation of Belgium, to deny it security of an external border and expel it from Europe; and with Russia to annex Poland and Baltic States and thus ensure future economic dependency. One can perhaps argue that by historical irony all this came to fruit after two world wars and 90 years of world conflict; but the verdict is clear that Germany was prepared and carried its policy to the bitter end without much regard of international law, civil liberty, conventions of honor and without much sense of humanity. <br />Fisher points out that essentially autocratic country, with under-developed democratic institutions, with traditions of Prussian militarism, sense of manifest destiny thriving for world dominance, sense of inferiority and ambiguity about its present position - all those complex causes united in German public opinion almost uniformly supporting the War effort and its government aggressive policies. When the end came, sense of betrayal, disappointment and failure catalyzed the war generation to create the seeds for the second conflict 20 years later. <br />Fisher's sources are primarily diplomatic correspondence, circular dispatches, minutes of the conferences of military and political leaders, speeches and such. The book is careful to use almost exclusively primary sources; thus ensuring accuracy and lack of bias. All throughout, there is a tremendous care taken by the author not to pass judgment and thrive towards the historical objectivity. It is perhaps a somewhat dry read, but, in my view, essential to understand the motivation of policy which God granted not ever to materialize.	2003-05-20
US	53040707	R3TLY84WW0QLRN	0679768122	381866424	Albert Speer: His Battle with Truth	Books	5	88	91	N	N	examination of guilt and repentence	Gita Sereny's \\"Albert Speer: His Battle with Truth\\" is well-written meticulously researched opus on the colorful life, memorable tribulations and profound ethical conflicts of the formed Minister of  Armament and Productions, beloved architect and one of the only real friends Adolf Hitler ever had. \\"You are Hitler's unrequited love\\" somebody comments to Speer and the emotional connection between the monster and his servant was profound, complex and infinitely important to both parties. In Speer Hitler found realization of his artistic and romantic dreams, his only sense of real creation outside of the realm of politics and organization, non-threatening acceptance by the men of superior social upbringing based not on fear but on the profound unity of artistic mission. For Speer, Hitler of course brought the position of power, influence and the oracle of truth, possibility of realization of himself for which any architect would've been prepared for a Faustian bargain. <br />From 1932 to 1944 Speer served Hitler with his heart and his soul. After the crisis in his personal life, illness and realization of the war being lost, came a time for Speer to gradually realize that he was serving and evil man. As always in the relationship, this was colored in profoundly personal terms, and due to his calling and upbringing matched into romantic showdown (I am referring to Speer's famous confession in the bunker on the eve of the demise of the Third Reich, which the author implies might not even had happened.) At Nuremberg, Speer was the only defendant who accepted a principle of collective responsibility unconditionally, versed however in smart and carefully terms  which might've saved his neck in the long term. There we see the beginning of the personal struggle with guilt and a difficult road to truth. <br />Gita Sereny's analysis is touches on all aspects of Speer's life - childhood, love life, upbringing, social conditions for the upper middle class German of his generation, his years in the helm of power, 20 years in prison and 15 years as a writer, researcher and apologist for his own past. A picture of profoundly disturbed man emerges, a man who becomes \\"morally extinguished\\" as the horror outside unravels. Speer was serving his sentence for the rest of his life, unable to live anywhere but in his past, partially lamenting, partially horrified by it, unable to relate very well to his family sacrificed perhaps as a part of his bargain. Profound conflict in Speer's life, his inability to admit or even realize that he was aware of the Final Solution and have done nothing, a horrible mistake of omission hunted him for the rest of his life. <br />This book is a fascinating read, all 750+ pages of it. Some of the material is a didactic repetition of events in Speer's life which can be gotten from his books, but I would not suggest skipping it since Sereny often compares multiple drafts and cross references it with other sources. You have to be committed to this book, but once the commitment is made, you are up for a treat! Enjoy!	2003-04-29
US	53040707	R1RTP2WDG731VM	0394710355	168192134	Into That Darkness: An Examination of Conscience	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Examination of guilty conciseness	Gita Sereny's \\"Into the Darkness\\" is based on a series of interviews with former Treblinka extermination camp commander Franz Stangl, his family and associates. It reports, beyond reproach, on the machinery of extermination, justification, and cover up of the Holocaust. <br />The book seek to answer the question how an ordinary citizen like Franz Stangl can raise to the complicity in unimaginable horror and still live with himself for many years after that. Mrs. Sereny shows how deeply ingrained the moral fiber of being is in the soul after all, how important is it in order to live in peace with oneself, and how difficult is the struggle of repression, justification and denial is for one guilty. How cunning evil is in diffusing its scope beyond recognition of individual responsibility; and how at the end in the darkest recesses of his soul the guilty knows and finally has courage to say the truth. How adapt the human soul is in building barriers, masks and ritual to hide the ugliness and suffering. <br />Without taking sides, in cool and non-judgmental journalistic style, narrative is a masterpiece of it genre. Difficult book to read no doubt, because the magnitude of horror is not masked by petty emotion. This book does not offer any answers, any solution, it just sadly reports on what went on.	2003-04-05
US	53040707	R3VD8BU6RDDJ9K	0140114068	181024941	The Mask of Command	Books	5	7	7	N	N	study of military leadership	Professor John Keegans Mask of Command is a far-reaching study of the military leadership through history. Keegan provides a study of the styles of 4 generals  heroic leadership of Alexander the Great, non-heroic examples of Duke of Wellington and US Grant, and a pseudo-heroic dictact of Adolph Hitler. Each individual study paints a quick picture of the personality of a general, reviews political situation, military technology and the prevailing warfare doctrine, reviews major battles fount and lessons learned. Of a particular importance, as is always with Keegan, are factors of technology and personality. Each of the generals will answer the question of the personal involvement and his place in battle in a different way. Alexander in always the front, in the first raw of the phalanx, mounted on a white horse, or the first scaling the walls of the besieged town. For him a general attains trust and leadership by personal example. He is the first of his men. Wellington and Grant are directors of the battle, whose purpose is to provide logistics and advise on tactics. Hitler, although he paints himself the first soldier of the Reich is a psychologist and a technocrat, who seeks to provide moral leadership via demagoguery alone. <br />This book reads like a breeze. Mostly impressive, in my own opinion, are reconstruction of the battles of Alexander from sometime scant historical evidence, insightful analysis of the unassuming leadership style of Grant, and the analysis of Wellington as an aristocrat of the battle. Great read!!!	2003-03-22
US	53040707	R3UCQ9LUDL2CT0	1558603484	337932994	Distributed Algorithms (The Morgan Kaufmann Series in Data Management Systems)	Books	5	23	24	N	N	definite reference	Professor's Nancy Lynch's &quot;Distributed Algorithms&quot; is a definite reference for theoretical treatments of many hard problems in distributed computing. It is a textbook, but written in such a clear style that makes it almost a pleasure read. Rarely have I seen something like that! The book has a right proportion of theoretical proofs, practical applications, philosophical appreciation of the problems, research questions, examples and study points.<br />&quot;Distributed Algorithms&quot; has 3 main parts - synchronous, asynchronous and partially synchronous network algorisms. Each part describes consensus resolution, mutual exclusion, resource allocation, leader election, termination detection and failure detection as main problems in distributed computing theory. Lynch has done a masterful job of leading us from simple to complex, from theoretically solvable to practically intractable problems.<br />For a practitioner of computer science, who is not necessarily involved in fundamental research, this book gives a clear appreciation of problems of 2PC, resource management, failure profiles in faulty and noisy networks, optimization and fault management in distributed networks. All those things are foundations of databases, network computing and enterprise scalability. It also helped me greatly in estimating the best and worst case boundaries in certain practical distributed system optimization problems.	2003-03-22
US	53040707	RLDXMC2DHNM7N	0313221715	525401699	Foch, the Man of Orleans.	Books	4	3	3	N	N	study of Foch's character	Liddell Hart's \\"Foch, the Man of Orleans\\" is a study of the style of military leadership of Marshall Foch, the Supreme Commander of Allied Forces in the WWI. Foch, a former professor and a chief of the French Staff College was foremost proponent of preponderance of moral factors and of a French offence a outrance style of war. It is not at all clear that this style of warfare is criticized by Liddell Hart in view of its ultimate redemption by virtue of French Victory. It is clear, however, that the author heart lies with Petain (and his defense oriented resource consuming style). Foch is given his due primarily for personal courage and strength of convictions, iron nerves and clarity of vision.<br />One of the illuminating points in this book was an introduction to the politics of coordination of war among the Allies, colorful sketch of personalities involved. Foch is given his due by his periodic sacrifices of ambition towards the common goal.<br />Style of the book is a bit dry at times; but this is well compensated by the presence of a lot of good maps and the occasional diversion toward description of mood, landscape and philosophical interludes.	2003-03-22
US	53040707	R2SMZ4AZSSH2QY	067972267X	76818172	A Pale View of Hills	Books	5	3	3	N	N	transitional esthetics	\\"A Pale View of Hills\\" is the first novel of Kazuo Ishiguro, who is a Japanese transplant into modern Britain. It is a story of an elderly Japanese woman, reflecting back on 40 years of her life in post-war Japan prompted by the devastation in her immediate family. The style is elliptic, but precise and economical. <br />The tone of the novel is somber, simple, minimalist and sad, properly inheriting from the long traditional of Japanese literature of 20th century. The rhythm is Japanese as well - slow reflections on little details thrown together into the canvas of simple everyday life.  There is however, an almost unnoticeable bridge to Ishiguro personal experience as an expatriate, and link to his future novels, like \\"Remains of the Day\\". Character of Etsuko is a character in transition and the end is left open and haunting. Great novel!!!	2003-03-15
US	53040707	R1EOKGBP2Y0OHB	0596003773	976518386	Java Performance Tuning (2nd Edition)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	performance checklist	&quot;Java Performance Tuning&quot; by Jack Shirazi has written a fairly comprehensive account on Java performance problems. The book is geared towards a programmer with medium level of experience with Java technology, it requires familiarity with basic Java techniques and with basic understanding of JVM design. For experienced programmer, most of the material mentioned will be familiar, just by virtue of programming in Java for a few years one will encounter most of the problems outlined.<br />Mr. Shirazi starts with outlining the profiling strategies and basic available tools. From that he proceeds towards topics in object creation, GC, string manipulation, exceptions, loops , I/O, threading models, caching strategies, distributed computing, and some very brief mention of the underlying OS issues. Most of the material states the problem (which is almost always the most important part), tells you how to identify it, and sketches a few solutions. It is not a programming recipe book by any stretch of imagination. Hope is that as one will read the book, he/she will think about performance up front and will become a better programmer as the result. <br />Arguably, what the book fails to explain is JVM and Java internals, which will provide an insight on why things happen the way they happen. I would appreciate more coverage on available performance benchmarks (which are only briefly mentioned), and/or on how to write a good performance testing case for each of the optimizations outlined.	2003-03-14
US	53040707	R2HQEQ1JXU3WID	0679730826	306881683	A History of Warfare	Books	5	6	7	N	N	breathtaking in scope, complexity and reach	John Keegan's \\"A history of warfare\\" is an ambitious undertaking striving to analyze more then 5000 years of recorded history of warfare. Keegan starts with an overview of \\"a primitive warfare\\", represented by both surviving tribal cultures and ancient Middle East and Mediterranean peoples.  This kind of warfare (and also ancient Chinese) is characterized by ritualistic battles of champions, hesitancy and desire to avoid direct conflict. This goes in direct contradiction with the modern Western ways of war; started by invention of pitched battle by classical Greeks, perpetuated through Roman times, inherited by Barbarian successors of Roman Empire, and ultimately developed into the concept of total war, which brought us the tragedies of the century just passed.<br />Keegan's theory is an antithesis of Clausewitz's thesis of \\"war as continuation of politics\\". He claims that the latter view is both restrictive and not really applicable to any period of history safe for a century after the dearth of Clausewitz (which nonetheless brought us 2 World Wars). Keegan points out that was is continuation of culture, genetics, politics, geography, and is ultimately both the reflection and the result of the human condition. In this, as in his other books, Keegan strikes a melancholy note that the humankind is both cursed and blessed by war, and as warfare grows to become total (or Clausewitz's) is looses all the redeeming qualities of the battles of the old and becomes a senseless expand of human suffering. <br />Keegan's style of presentation is clear and precise. Althought the book covers more then 5000 years of development of warfare across all major world cultures, people with little background in that history will find his arguments well understood.	2003-02-05
US	53040707	R4RJTIQONLJT1	0596002912	55221319	XPath and XPointer: Locating Content in XML Documents	Books	4	5	7	N	N	easy to understand, written with humour reference manual	John E. Simpson has done a remarkable job in elucidating yet another XML-related techology in fun and easy small book. Care is taken to provide comprehensive examples (sometimes with hacker-type tougue-in-cheek approach) which illustrates the points of syntax. One does not need to read the book in comprehensive fashion, after a few chapters, you one can just start coding and refer to the rest as a reference manual. <br />One thing, however is missing, the book does you why you should use XPath or XPointer. What are the real world examples and applications? And what about XQuery? How is XPath related to XSLT? Those points are left for the reader to ponder about, and this is the only reason I am not giving the book 5 starts.	2003-02-04
US	53040707	R2QLRS47H7DWSQ	0375700455	841119426	The First World War	Books	5	8	9	N	N	military history with compassion and sans political bias	John Keegan' &quot;The First World War&quot; is one of those rare books which combine the thoroughly researched descriptions of history, technology and means of warfare with nuances of psychology and mystery of the Great War. Keegan starts with the overview of diplomatic positions of the Great powers involved in the war (although his analysis of origins is on his own admission is just a summary of prior work), then proceeds to the breakout of the conflict. In subsequent chapters Keegan covers every year of the Great War on the Western, Eastern, Middle Eastern, Italian and Mediterranean theatres of war in a thorough and scholarly fashion. Very soon a pattern emerges - a static trench warfare on the Western front, in-conclusive war of movement on the Eastern front with untold unaccounted casualties, diversionary operations on the secondary theatres costing significant resource drain, and pointless war of heroics, despotism and bravery on the Italian front. <br />What I like particularly about the book is the analysis of military strategy and tactics of the main participant in the manner which somebody without training in military science can easily comprehend. Keegan points out how lack of communication, rigid bureaucratic organization and the lack of appreciation of the tactical variability of the war caused British failures to command a decision at Somme in 1916 and Ypres and Flanders in 1917; how ill-prepared was French army for defensive operations due to its romantic &quot;esprit de corpes&quot;; how Russian lack of coordination, material supply and organization lead to horrendous losses on the Western front. Germans came out as good fighters, allowing their field commanders high degree of freedom, yet weak strategically, unable to concentrate the efforts on a single point of the decisive breakthrough. Keegan touches on the naval warfare as well, specifically Jutland, but since navy in the Great war played mostly static positional role, he does not spend much time there. <br />Overall, I found his book fair and non-biased; essentially without any political agenda. Keegan is more interested in uncovering the mystery of the war as the source of human suffering, then finding a particular side to blame. To this degree this is a rare book.	2003-01-28
US	53040707	R3ONPA0HGBJK1Q	0375700455	841119426	The First World War	Books	5	124	127	N	N	military history with compassion and sans political bias	John Keegan' \\"The First World War\\" is one of those rare books which combine the thoroughly researched descriptions of history, technology and means of warfare with nuances of psychology and mystery of the Great War. Keegan starts with the overview of diplomatic positions of the Great powers involved in the war (although his analysis of origins is on his own admission is just a summary of prior work), then proceeds to the breakout of the conflict. In subsequent chapters Keegan covers every year of the Great War on the Western, Eastern, Middle Eastern, Italian and Mediterranean theatres of war in a thorough and scholarly fashion. Very soon a pattern emerges - a static trench warfare on the Western front, in-conclusive war of movement on the Eastern front with untold unaccounted casualties, diversionary operations on the secondary theatres costing significant resource drain, and pointless war of heroics, despotism and bravery on the Italian front. <br />What I like particularly about the book is the analysis of military strategy and tactics of the main participant in the manner which somebody without training in military science can easily comprehend. Keegan points out how lack of communication, rigid bureaucratic organization and the lack of appreciation of the tactical variability of the war caused British failures to command a decision at Somme in 1916 and Ypres and Flanders in 1917; how ill-prepared was French army for defensive operations due to its romantic \\"esprit de corpes\\"; how Russian lack of coordination, material supply and organization lead to horrendous losses on the Western front. Germans came out as good fighters, allowing their field commanders high degree of freedom, yet weak strategically, unable to concentrate the efforts on a single point of the decisive breakthrough.  Keegan touches on the naval warfare as well, specifically Jutland, but since navy in the Great war played mostly static positional role, he does not spend much time there. <br />Overall, I found his book fair and non-biased; essentially without any political agenda. Keegan is more interested in uncovering the mystery of the war as the source of human suffering, then finding a particular side to blame. To this degree this is a rare book.	2003-01-18
US	53040707	RGKEGERQRI7IJ	0786700009	762887099	At the Heart of a Tiger: Clemenceau and His World 1841-1929	Books	4	6	7	N	N	uncompromising biography of a complex man	&quot;At the Heart of a Tiger: Clemenceau and His World 1841-1929&quot; by Gregor Dallas is a passionate epic of the life of one of the most enigmatic statements of the 3rd Republic. Georges Clemenceau, a medical doctor, a journalist, radical member of the assembly, passionate defender of France's honor during the Dreyfus affair, turned as a Prime Minister in power extremely tough and conservative, a supreme war leader who suppressed freedom of speech and whose iron will helped France to endure the Spring offensive of 1918 and finally win the WWI. Clemenceau is a friend of Monet, lover of fine things in life, passionate believer in truth but foremost a French patriot. Clemenceau uncompromising position during the negotiation of the treaty of Versallies, as an elderly statesman having nothing to loose but the honor of his country, helped protect French security, but ultimately failed to produce a workable solution based on any balance of power.<br />Gregor Dallas style and the translation preserves the flowery nature of French language and feeling. Dallas is at his best when he describes the emotions behind the human decision making, not necessarily when at rational interpretation of history.  From little we can know about the private life of the extremely secretive man who burned most of his private correspondence, Dallas manages to extrapolate from in truly incontradictory way. Although 600 pages, a book is an easy and enjoyable read. Not entirely a scholarly treatise, but not a subjective biography either.	2003-01-05
US	53040707	R1E672F5EDL9R5	0785263535	779051969	The Savage Nation: Saving America from the Liberal Assault on Our Borders, Language and Culture	Books	1	5	12	N	N	narrow minded expose of ignorance and hate	Dr. Savage, a popular talk show host, wrote a new book \\"The Savage Nation\\" which explains his views on the variety of topics on politics and culture. Those can be expressed in 3 words - borders, language and culture. Savage is protecting his image of America by excluding everybody who does not subscribe to a very narrow point of view, which excludes people from other cultures, people in disadvantageous social position, of alternative sexual persuasion. Savage is a talented demagogue, poorly educated in complexity of politics and history. His book contains a variety of factual errors in the topics of 20 century European and American history.<br />I found Savage's rhetoric intellectually thin, emotional and immature. Frankly, he is a very entertaining radio talk show host, but in order to venture into jounralism one has to know something about principles of argumentation. His audience of ignorant rednecks, incompetent loosers, and sexually frustrated housewifes does not translate well into the printed word. My advise to Savage is to stick to what he knows - radio format, and do not try to bring out his views in more intellectually sophisticated medium. <br />Ultimately, Savage does not respect his own readers by offering us something which is half-baked, poorly researched and full of overreaching generalizations. And this comes from the man who aspires to be a leader of the profoundly new political action. <br />I must grant that this book is an entartaining read, but please do not take it seriously as a manifesto for political action. Savages views does not represent America, they represent everything which is wrong with our borders, language and culture.	2003-01-02
US	53040707	R3387Y6HXVG5JI	0192839756	928902504	The English Constitution (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	classical exposition of the British system of government	Walter Bagehot was a journalist and a social and political thinker of the middle Victorian period (1850s and 1860s). His classical work \\"The English Constitution\\" comes as a collection of polemical assays upon the structure of the British political system. Cabinet, monarchy, Houses of Commons and Lords, execution of political power, and the foundation of the systems of checks and balances are explored in the book.<br />Throughout the book a comparison and contrast of Cabinet system and the Presidential system (a.k.a USA) is a constant theme. Bagehot does not hide it preference for the Cabinet system, which in his view is a both more dynamic and more effective. One of his main points is that direct popular election is a myth, since most of the electorate are ignorant of the nature of the political power (and moreover are forced to this ignorance by the effective uselessness of the legislative debate in the USA as opposed to the UK). Moreover, a result of the direct election is a static Presidential term of 4 years, which allows the executive branch to execute almost unchecked control of the political process. According to Bagehot, the indirect electoral system of the Commons, where people vote for the MPs and they then select the PM amongst themselves produces a more effective government, which is more responsive to the popular will since it can fall at any time due to policy disputes. A hidden secret of British success according to Bagehot is a fusion of legislative and executive powers in the Cabinet system. In the latter chapters, Bagehot exposures two forms of power - the dignified power (in the person of the monarch and the lords) and the effective power as exemplified by the Cabinet. Dignified power serves as a façade of legitimacy under which the dynamic and opportunist real effective power can subsist. He follows through to explain how each of the minister of the government exercises its power for the common goal, what are the legal powers of the monarchy andhow it is exercised indirectly via control of the composition of the peerage and the power to dissolve the Commons.<br />Bagehot's style is clear, flavorful, his knowledge of political process is profound (with a qualification of more so of British then American), his research is well done, and he is a master of dramatic tricks to keep the reader interested. I would recommend the book as both a scholarly reference, and a well presented popular case.	2003-01-01
US	53040707	R229Q0W5JD6XDB	0345405013	701990800	The Proud Tower: A Portrait of the World Before the War, 1890-1914	Books	3	9	16	N	N	brilliant, captivating but ultimately without a point	Barbara W. Tuchman's \\"The Proud Tower\\" is overly ambitious undertaking, even for the author of the \\"Guns of August\\". To present in a single, however voluminous book, a social, economic, cultural and artistic history of the golden age of \\"fin du siècle\\" Europe and to do this in a brilliant popular style open to anyone is a masterful undertaking. <br />\\"The proud tower\\" starts with social history of upper class Victorians of the later age of Salisbury, thought the Dreyfus Affair which split the social consciousness of France to age of Balfour, Edwardians and realization of the German threat. Parallel track in a book deals with the rise of anarchism and Marxism throughout the Europe and USA, development of those ideas which eventually gave rise to both European socialism and the menace of Bolshevism. <br />The best parts of the book, in my opinion, are the drama of the Dreyfus Affair and the description of the late Victorian epoch. The history of Marxism is not clear, muddled, and is not helped by the author omitting significant historical facts. Logically it does not follow thought why people acted the way they acted in political protest. The book might've been helped by following thought with just a single out of 2 main narrative lines - political history of the upper classes or the social history of the lower classes. As written it does not make a single central point, and as such lost my attention at the end.	2002-12-28
US	53040707	RH4L1PN5J4GX5	0785263535	779051969	The Savage Nation: Saving America from the Liberal Assault on Our Borders, Language and Culture	Books	1	21	82	N	N	intellectually thin collection of cliches	Michael Savage has written a book which is an honest reflection of his believes expressed daily on his nationally sindicated radio show. Dr. Savage's thesis can be summarized in 3 words - borders, language and culture, and none of those profound conceptions can be defended by him with any degree of intellectual honesty. In fact, all of Savage's argumentation is presented in the format of his radio show - listen to the caller, abuse the caller (or the liberal, immigrant, ACLU, Democrat - to be fair a Republican at times), and cut the caller off. In other words, a classical case of the abuse of your attention. Majority of the arguments are not defended or explained, but just plain stated without support. This might be enought in a policy speech, but for a book such a collection of unsupported statements are not good enought.<br />I find the book to be researched badly, presented in the style of a demagogue, and just plain boring. Savage does not have a conception of history which goes beyond his limited personal experience, and some of the facts in the book (too many to list here) are plain wrong.	2002-12-28
US	53040707	R3CS8E4K5L5XIN	074261350X	477302525	The Economic Consequences of Peace	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Peace which sowed the seeds of its own destruction	Great British economist John Maynard Keynes second book recounts his assessment of the economic consequences of the Treaty of Versailles, where he was a member of British delegation as an economic expert. <BR>Keynes starts with providing a dazzling psychological analysis on how the treaty came to be.<BR>\\"When President Wilson left Washinghton he enjoyed a prestige and a moral influence throughout the world unequalled in history ... Never had a philosopher help such weapons wherewith to bind the princes of this world. How the crowds of the European capitals presses about the carriage of the President! With what curiosity, anxiety, and hope we sought a glimpse of the features and bearing of the man of destiny who, coming from the West, was to bring healing to the wounds of the ancient parent of this civilization and lay for us the foundations and the future\\"<BR>Alas, this was not to be. American idealism, French quest for security and British distaste for alliances and hypocrisy created an unworkable solution. Soul of the treaty was sacrificed to placate domestic political process, and as the result put Germany in the position of defiance and economic insolvency; the position which at the bottom drew sympathy from the former Allies and as the result contributed to brutality of the second conflict. <BR>Keynes draws a picture of pan-European economy which was destroyed by the treaty and rightfully predicted that not only Germany will not be able to pay, but will be obligated to pursue the expansionist policy at the expense of her weak Eastern neighbors. Treaty did not contain any positive economic programme for rehabilitation of the economic life of Central powers and Russia. One just could not disrupt the economic position of the greatest European land power, at the same time strengthening it geo-politically and suffer no horrible retribution. \\"\\"The Peace Treaty of Versailles: This is not Peace. It is an Armistice<BR>for twenty years.\\" - said Foch about such a agreement.	2002-12-16
US	53040707	R1POVOOU9QEJXZ	0898865743	21241024	The Crystal Horizon: Everest-The First Solo Ascent	Books	5	12	13	N	N	story of the first solo accent of Mnt. Everest	I could not say anything less then that Reinhold Messner's &quot;The Crystal Horizon&quot; is a great book. It is not a usual climber's book, but rather a strange mix of history, politics, religion, geography, meteorology, personal history and world views of the man who is beyond doubt the greatest living mountaineer. The book deals with the first solo accent of Mnt. Everest, accomplished during the monsoon season. It is ravenously illustrated and photographed. It is an exciting adventure. It is a riot and a sad story of a man who escapes to the mountain to find peace. It is well worth you time. <br />One should forgive Messner (or rather his translator) some awkward sentence structures, punctuated by the action and verbal phrases put at the end of sentence, and quite frequent exercises in the obscure mix of native religion, Buddhist witticisms and Central European Christianity. I do however, applaud the honesty and occasional beauty of those philosophical excesses, particularly when he talks about feeling akin to Sisyphus when climbing and when he exhibits the diary entries of his girlfriend which does not always portrays him in the best light possible.<br />Overall, I enjoyed this book a lot.	2002-12-08
US	53040707	R36RASHGGTKFCJ	0684829495	339554706	Inside the Third Reich	Books	4	11	12	N	N	architect, minister and a politician	Albert Speer, Hitler's architect and the minister of armaments in the last 2 years of the war has written a captivating but uneven autobiography. It is neither a personal or political history, but mostly an apology. Although the need of this is well understood psychologically, in my opinion this dilutes the otherwise unique message, and the book suffers greatly stylistically from that. <br />Biography is of roughly two main parts. First of a somewhat politically naïve, but ambitious architect who is given a chance of the lifetime - build a new capital for the world new empire - a glorious Germania. A splendid boulevard, 200 feet wide, crowned on one end by the biggest domed structure in the world (under its cupola 15 (fifteen!!) San Peters can stand), monstrous Triumphal Arc, towering 300 feet high over the old Brangenburg Gates, 2 grandious railroad stations for the center of the world, etc, so on, and on. All in the towering neoclassical style, with grandeur and fury. What a task! This part of book is very engaging, mostly due to architectural presentation and the rare insigts into Hitler's private life. At some point Speer is called furher's \\"unrequited love\\".<br />Quickly to the second part - a career of the most important civilian minister of the 3rd Reich. This is fascinating in its own right, but suffers from the lack of explanations on the mechanics of organization and bureaucracy in the 3rd Reich. I am constantly perplexed, annoyed and frustrated by description of countless intrigues whose rationale and logic (if any) is totally obscure. What we sense here is the dangerous evolution of the main character as he attains power, political acumen and ambition to even ... succeed Hitler. \\"Even Speer discovered politics\\" - says Hitler and we are left to wonder what is left untold.<br />All in all, well worth your time, if only for the first part.	2002-12-07
US	53040707	R9XOP2YWWFAAN	0674344669	103579835	The Generation of 1914	Books	5	6	6	N	N	what is the &quot;generation of 1914&quot;?	Professor Robert Wohl examines the phenomenon of the development of the generational history as applied to the study of the &quot;generation of 1914&quot; in five major European countries - France, Germany, Britain, Spain and Italy.<br />The generation of &quot;wanderers between two worlds&quot;, devastated, redeemed and then lost in the Great War. This was not a unified collection of people, but really three waves with only a few years apart - those which came to 1914 with a sense of duty, values and purpose, those 17 year olds who only a few years younger did not take time to mature and were thrust head on to the doom of Verdun, and lastly those who were prepared to the fact that their lifes will be lost, but did not have time to serve when the war ended in 1918, but were marked by it for the rest of their lifes. How different this experience must've been, and how intimately and delicately things intervined to create a common thrust of the generation of the war. Wohl explores those experiences from phylosophical, philological, economical, religious and political perspective. Althought the book is packed with footnotes, anotations and hundereds of names, it reads in a very fluid fashion.	2002-12-04
US	53040707	R3UVU5QATJZDB0	1931541132	477302525	The Economic Consequences of the Peace	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Peace which sowed the seeds of its own destruction	Great British economist John Maynard Keynes second book recounts his assessment of the economic consequences of the Treaty of Versailles, where he was a member of British delegation as an economic expert. <BR>Keynes starts with providing a dazzling psychological analysis on how the treaty came to be.<BR>\\"When President Wilson left Washinghton he enjoyed a prestige and a moral influence throughout the world unequalled in history ... Never had a philosopher help such weapons wherewith to bind the princes of this world. How the crowds of the European capitals presses about the carriage of the President! With what curiosity, anxiety, and hope we sought a glimpse of the features and bearing of the man of destiny who, coming from the West, was to bring healing to the wounds of the ancient parent of this civilization and lay for us the foundations and the future\\"<BR>Alas, this was not to be. American idealism, French quest for security and British distaste for alliances and hypocrisy created an unworkable solution. Soul of the treaty was sacrificed to placate domestic political process, and as the result put Germany in the position of defiance and economic insolvency; the position which at the bottom drew sympathy from the former Allies and as the result contributed to brutality of the second conflict. <BR>Keynes draws a picture of pan-European economy which was destroyed by the treaty and rightfully predicted that not only Germany will not be able to pay, but will be obligated to pursue the expansionist policy at the expense of her weak Eastern neighbors. Treaty did not contain any positive economic programme for rehabilitation of the economic life of Central powers and Russia. One just could not disrupt the economic position of the greatest European land power, at the same time strengthening it geo-politically and suffer no horrible retribution. \\"\\"The Peace Treaty of Versailles: This is not Peace. It is an Armistice<BR>for twenty years.\\" - said Foch about such a agreement.	2002-11-03
US	53040707	R37QS9G7BK76XQ	1558604154	570494611	Principles of Transaction Processing for the Systems Professional (The Morgan Kaufmann Series in Data Management Systems)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	clear, concise and practical	I have been using this book in the advanced undegraduate class series on Transaction Processing. Since this book, as emphasised in the preface has eveolved from the class material, it is exemplerary suited for that purpose. But not only in academia, this book has enought coverage to provide a first reference point in such topics as TP monitors, queue design, locking solutions, HA and recovery in databases, 2PC. Additionally, VERY usefull (if somewhat dated) industry survey of Transaction Monitors (this will really benefit to the other edition perhaps including app servers and EJBs). Highly recommended.	2002-01-13
US	53040707	R2XTHYKU9O0BNB	0201708728	9469098	Database and Transaction Processing	Books	5	7	9	N	N	detailed, informative and practical	Database and Transaction Processing by Philip M. Lewis, et al. is written as a multi-purpose textbook and practical reference guide for software engineers. One can use this book both as an undergraduate introductory course in database theory and design, as an advanced graduate-level course in databases, or as a graduate level course in transaction processing. <br />Being outside of the academia, but still needing a foundational theoretical (but not necessarily formal or overly detailed) reference, I was impressed on the ability of the authors to present concise and useful practical facts. Some other textbooks suffer from overwrought attention to topics in database normalization, correctness proves, and such - this one gives a lot of practical advise in optimization, distributed databases and issues of concurrency control and transaction processing. Chapters are organized in a self-contained fashion, so with a bit of background in databases, reader can just read a chapter in isolation if she is interested in a topic. <br />In summary, a very useful book.	2002-01-03
US	53040707	R3TMXPOND34UXY	0898868440	239682098	The Big Walls: From the North Face of the Eiger to the South Face of Dhaulagirl	Books	5	9	11	N	N	more then 50 big walls spectacularry illustrated	Messner presents a first-hand and historical perspective of the main big walls in the world's mountains - from Alpine North Faces (Eiger) to Himalian South Faces (Annapurna, Lhotse, Everest). In format and content it is very simular to &quot;All 14 8000's&quot; by the same author. Both are highly recommended.	2001-11-27
US	53040707	R1M5Q18OKBZKJ3	1563247313	730690099	China: A Macro History (An East Gate Book)	Books	5	30	30	N	N	a worthwhile summary of lifetime's work	Ray Huang's &quot;China: A Macro History&quot; kept me up for a few nights in a row. Dr. Huang posed an extremely ambitious goal to explain fundamental differences of Western and Chinese civilizations, and to explore trends of Chinese government, military, cultural and religious institutions as they develop from legendary to modern times. The book is organized in chapters, each covering roughly a time span of the major dynasty of the Middle Kingdom. Concentration is more on trends (thus the title word &quot;macro&quot;) then on events, more on developments of concepts rather then careers. People and events are represented inasmuch as they represent the underlining trend. As such every dynasty rise and eventual fall is represented, with credits due to each for the developments of Chinese nation. The institution of monarchy is a fascinating blend of ritual, unreal and fantastic, and idealistic, with an impressive organizational achievement in management of the country with the base of millions of agrarian households. <br />The only grievance I have with the book is that understandably enough Dr. Huang had to skip over a lot of material (or he would risk leaving us with yet another &quot;The Decline and fall of the Roman Empire&quot;); however in doing so he is rarely consistent, e.g. not explaining the elemental precepts of Confucianism, organization of Chinese army and bureaucracy; and fundamental principles behind state examinations. All those, however, can be gotten from other sources, and as such will tempt the reader to explore more.	2001-11-20
US	53040707	R17YBNREWS1HNG	0883971321	648409850	Empire of the Sultans: Ottoman Art from the Khalili Collection	Books	5	12	13	N	N	fantastic exhibition	I have attended \\"Empire of the Sultans\\" exhibition in San Francisco's Asian Art Museum multiple times. The new catalog has many helpful historical overviews which will help to orient the reader in rich history of Ottoman Empire and Islam. I was mostly impressed with maps, cutout calligraphy, illustrated prayer calendars, and calligraphy on dry leaves. Some of the scrolls of edicts from the time of zenith of Ottoman power (Suleiman the Magnificent) are executed in a wonderfully restrained style with just the hint of color and gold dust. A reader will have a great time with this catalog!	2001-10-17
US	53040707	REYTQM0RI8LS3	0671510991	945585365	Diplomacy (Touchstone Book)	Books	5	18	20	N	N	history of foreign policy	Dr. Kissinger's &quot;Diplomacy&quot; is a history of the development of foreign policy from early 16 century to present time. He traces the advents of different ways of constructing the world order - from Machiavellian &quot;Raison d'erte&quot; policy of the First Minister of France Cardinal Richelieu, to the first concept of the &quot;balance of power&quot; advocated by Metternich at the Congress of Vienna, through breakup of that balance by Crimean War and Bismarck, from British policy of &quot;Splendid Isolation&quot; to British policy of limited alliances just before the WW1, from the mistakes of Treaty of Versailles, to the Marshall plan, from Kennedy policy of containment during the Berlin and Cuban crises, to Nixon's (and Kissinger) conduct of the Cold War. <BR> <BR>This is a brilliant exposition of the academician and the practitioner of the art of diplomacy. Dr. Kissinger has the brilliance of style; and clarity of exposition which will put this book, not necessarily written for the general reader, at its reach.	2001-09-17
US	53040707	R27W8Z5IBDRB3M	0811814378	884011547	On This Site	Books	5	4	5	N	N	on the problem of emptiness	Joel Sternfeld's work as a conceptual photographer exhibits a degree of understanding of emptiness, of unspoken gaps, of silence. He is taking the pictures of the places where famous tragic events in America were taking place, some years after the fact. The photographs are creating a very strong sense of the &quot;negative event&quot; space, where something which is not told is infinitely more important that what was told. Also I highly recommend Joel Sternfeld 's most recent exhibition catalog &quot;Stranger Passing&quot;, where he travels the roads of America, and takes pictures with his large-format camera. Although all his pictures include people in various situations (attending a party, selling coffee, hanging out in their own homes, vacationing, promenading, relaxing, observing, working), what he is really interested in, is the depiction of landscapes and soft outplay of the mid-afternoon light.	2001-08-29
US	53040707	RNTBEX50691V7	0821227521	961447599	Stranger Passing	Books	5	7	7	N	N	redefining &quot;landscape&quot; photography	Joel Sternfeld travels the roads of America, and takes pictures with his large-format camera. Although all his pictures include people in various situations (attending a party, selling coffee, hanging out in their own homes, vacationing, promenading, relaxing, observing, working), what he is really interested in, is the depiction of landscapes and soft outplay of the mid-afternoon light. There is an overwhelming sense of loneliness. His composition style is superb; his depiction of quality of light reflections of the industrial surfaces is without precedence. In my opinion, Sternfeld really stands on its own. Not since Robert Frank's &quot;The Americans&quot; have I seen such a collection. His compositions are best reminiscent of Philip-Lorca diCorcia's; but somehow people are not the center of attention (and sometimes not even of focus), what is important is the quality of landscapes and how they shape human lives.	2001-08-28
US	53040707	R2HAPCABSY2PCY	0140128484	240280783	The Soul of the Ape	Books	5	27	28	N	N	exposition of the subconscious mind before ethiology	I first find out about this book because there is a sublime hint in my all-favorite movie Antonioni's &quot;The Passenger&quot;. David Locke, a hero, is about to succumb to a deep unconsciousness calling to embark on the journey towards his destiny of loneliness and death - there, by a shade of his reading lamp, is the &quot;The soul of the Ape&quot;. <br />Eugene Marais, was a South African lawyer, physician and journalist, and the semi-professional etiologist. After the devastating effect of the Boer war on his country, Marais and companion retreat to the remote canyon in Transvaal to study the behavior of the troop of baboons. The books main thesis that there are 2 types of memory - the philetic, e.g. instinctual genetic memory, and the experiential, intellectual memory reinforced by learning. Those two parallel trends follow the aspects of the life of the baboons - hunting, orientation, and the supremely human trends such as drug addiction and elaborate sexual behavior. Marais concludes, that there are so much more in the &quot;soul&quot; of the ape, which resembles the traits of our own species. <br />Overall, the book is a fascinating read, and was a very forward-looking research in his strange time of hesitation, after the disallusement with Freud and before Lorenz and Watson.	2001-08-17
US	53040707	R3LCO4J3XBH4VU	0345375564	836091346	Dreadnought: Britain, Germany, and the Coming of the Great War	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Fear God and  Dreadnought	... is a motto of Baron Fisher of Kilverstone, brilliant and notorious First Sea Lord of the British Admiralty, Jackie Fisher. Fisher is the hero of Robert Massies colossus &quot;Dreadnought : Britain, Germany, and the Coming of the Great War&quot;. Fisher, unlike any other man, was responsible for creation of the revolutionary new battleship class, which overnight made all the other Navy in world obsolete, and assured the preeminence of the British navy in the future Great War. Fisher predicted that the future battle of Armageddon will be played out between German and British fleets in 1916, and that Admiral Jellicoe will preside over the British fleet. So it was on May 31, 1916 at the Battle of Jutland, the battle which decided the Naval history of the Great War.<br />Massie's book starts 40 years before the battle, and traces the political development in British Empire and on the Continent. We see the rise of Prussian, and then German militarism, starting with Bismarck unification, through the war of 1871, the rise of Kaiser William II, and the construction of the German Navy by admiral Tirpitz. We witness, the middle and closing years of Victorian Area, battles for the survival of the German Empire. Massie provides an excellent overview of the complex Continental diplomacy and a set of alliances, which allowed Germany to develop into the preeminent European power; and the historical realization on the part of Britain, that the policy of &quot;Splendid Isolation&quot; will not work in the 20th Century. <br />I simply could not put this book down for a week it took me to digest all 1007 pages of it! Highly recommended.	2001-07-25
US	53040707	R16LED4G4OYGJ5	0865474125	88739451	Palm-of-the-Hand Stories	Books	5	10	11	N	N	sad and touching, very modern and ultimately cinematographic	Palm-Of-The-Hand Stories by Yasunari Kawabata is a collection of over 100 stories written over 40 years time period starting in early 1920s. This collection includes the 6 page compressed version of novel a &quot;Snow Country&quot;; &quot;Thank you&quot;,  a masterpiece of minimalist expression (made into a movie); other stories where themes familiar to Kawabata readers are told.  Kawabata pen has a sharpness of the journalist; immediacy of the witness and wisdom of a contemplator. Frankly,  most of those stories are so sad, that I could not read more then a few a setting. However, I always returned for more. I do not think your Kawabata collection will be complete without it.	2001-06-18
US	53040707	R2LW65724O2HAK	019503676X	197121642	That Bowling Alley on the Tiber: Tales of a Director	Books	5	5	5	N	N	a haunting tale of the ideas unrealized	This book is a collection of ideas, sketches, plots and &quot;cuts&quot; told by the modern master - Michelangelo Antonioni. Some of the novellas in the book (4 of them) made it into his latest movie  &quot;Beyond the Clouds&quot;; most of the work is still to be realized on film. Reading this collection helped me to understand the Great Teatrology of the Antonioni's work - L'Aventurra, La Notte, Eclipse and Red Desert much better. Director is researching the same themes of loneliness, impossibility of love and connections in the modern world full of dehumanizing technology. Landscapes and architecture, subtle variations of mood, breeze and movement ... and sadness.	2001-06-08
US	53040707	RBNK4ILJV5IXC	0520053419	468434884	Antonioni, or, The Surface of the World	Books	5	15	17	N	N	great critical review	This book is a critical review of the movie career of Antionioni. It helped me to understand the Great Teatrology of the Antonioni's work - L'Aventurra, La Notte, Eclipse and Red Desert much better. Director is researching the same themes of loneliness, impossibility of love and connections in the modern world full of dehumanizing technology. Landscapes and architecture, subtle variations of mood, breeze and movement ... and sadness.<br />I was amazed by Chatman's bibliography list. He'd read anything and everything there is to read about Antonioni. The books follow movies frame by frame with critical acclaim given to all aspects of Antonioni's art. Must read!!!	2001-06-08
US	53040707	R1FWA4279IP668	0747245819	77673732	The Book of Execution: An Encyclopedia of Methods of Judicial Execution	Books	4	10	12	N	N	reference on the methods of execution	This book is a comprehensive reference on the methods of execution written by the former Yeoman Warden in the Tower of London. As such it has a slightly British-centric view of the execution methods, with majority of the descriptions dedicated to the axe, wheel and rope as the executioner implements. It also reads as a survey of the fate of Christian martyrs, which we known to be executed in great style. I would like to see more illustrations, for exposition to be clouded with less emotion, and for more space to be dedicated towards Oriental, Middle East and Ancient execution methods which are poorly represented. Maybe Mr. Abbott cares to write another book on this subject?	2001-06-08
US	53040707	R1YO6A0DJYIFS7	087113800X	623008639	India: A History	Books	4	5	5	N	N	good, but thin general interest overview	&quot;India : A History&quot; by John Keay is a good summary overview of the whole span of recorded Indian history from the Harappan culture circa 1600BCE to modern times. As such I do not think it has a better example for the general reader. It suffers however, from some of the more glaring omissions and is very thin in the topics of cultural history, anthropology, Indian foreign relations (especially with SE Asia and China); especially poor rendition in my opinion is of the period of Raj and British dominance, and of period from Buddha's lifetime on to proliferation of Islam.	2001-06-07
US	53040707	R56ZNV7EOC5KY	0521431085	453625535	Numerical Recipes in C: The Art of Scientific Computing, Second Edition	Books	5	3	6	N	N	a single useful reference book in numerical computing	\\"Numerical Recipes in C\\" is a collection of standards problems in numerical computing with solution explanation and code. Topics include but not limited to linear algebra, inter/extrapolation, FFT, integration, random arithmetic, sorting, minimization, eigen-algebra, statistics, and differential equations. <br />I find this book extremely useful as a reference guide in writing efficient algorithms. Not code itself, but the description of the problem and the solutions is of importance. I do not even program in C anymore; and I also think that nobody should copy the code verbatim from any book into the production system without notice of style, reference and optimization. My copy is so worn-out now, that I should probably buy a new one :-) Enjoy!!	2001-06-07
US	53040707	R2R6WV7TLPKM3	0395500753	332459308	The Chrysanthemum and the Sword: Patterns of Japanese Culture	Books	5	28	33	N	N	excellent antropology	Chrysanthemum and the Sword : Patterns of Japanese Culture by Ruth Benedict was intended as a commissioned anthropological study of the Japanese culture at the end of WWII. The study was harshly treated and criticized by some of the anthropologists and by many in the near-political university circles because the author use of circumstantial and indirect evidence, since she never went to Japan and did not know the language. <br />In my opinion, the study however is clear, unencumbendt by assumptions, fairly objective. I feel that Benedict accomplished her goal in laying out the foundation for understanding of what American Japanese administration can do in rebuilding the Japan society so the WWII aggression won't be repeated. <br />Personally, Benedicts clear explanation of hierarchy of cultural obligation (to the emperor, family, and to ones honor),  descriptions of the child upbringing gave me useful insights into Japanese literary and esthetic traditions; and to the history of the development of Buddhism. I would highly recommend it for anybody who wants to understand cultural foundation of Japanese character; and also as a curious piece on how Japan was perceived circa 1946, when nothing of the impending economic recovery, political reorientation and cultural shifts of today were known.	2001-06-05
US	53040707	R2OUYQWSQAUSY1	0596000685	969800830	Java Message Service (O'Reilly Java Series)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	delightfull introduction, good first book on JMS	This little book is a great &quot;first&quot; book on JMS, written by chief architects of the leading JMS implementations in both open source and commercial community. It lays down theoretical foundations of messaging middleware, introduces publish-subscribe, P2P, multicast, and the transaction-related considerations; thoroughly covers JMS spec (however simple this thing is) and its touch-points with EJB and J2EE. Example applications are simple, well understood and well supported. <br />However, coverage of such topics as transactivity, recovery, messaging system design are somewhat shallow; section on JMS providers is unbearably thin, with any critical component lacking; and the performance and scalability issues with both JMS Spec itself and a variety of its commercial application is lacking in depth. <br />I would recommend this book to a college student taking an advance computer science course; computer professional learning about messaging and JMS - but it is not in any way an advanced text on the subject.	2001-06-05
US	53040707	R1SCPQYHEAJG2H	067972074X	131773811	Emperor of China: Self-Portrait of K'ang-Hsi	Books	5	6	6	N	N	excellent introduction to late imperial China	Jonathan D. Spence has accomplished a lot in this remarkable biography of the second emperor of the last Chinese imperial dynasty Qing, K'and-Hsi, for the general audience.  Based on the writing of the emperor, court records and later secondary sources, book follows the emperor through his struggles with opposition, Manchurian and Han nobility, his troubled relationships with his numerous sons, his old age, and his legacy. Remarkable in its vividness is last few chapters, where the emperor legacy is laid out based on the official court-issued papers, and the informal drafts of the will. I would like to see more description of court ceremony; and perhaps a more thorough reflection on the Manchu / Han opposition; but those subjects are well covered in the other book by the same author (e.g. &quot;The Search for Modern China&quot;). Great starting point for anybody interested in Chinese history.	2001-06-01
US	53040707	RD2K6R4Q90DMC	0300073720	537189211	Edward IV (The English Monarchs Series)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	scholarly presentation of the adventurous reign	Charles Ross presents an unforgettable tale of the most confusing, uneven and adventurous reign of any king in the English history.  Edward IV remains the only king who was able to loose a kingdom and them successfully reclaim the crown. Possessing remarkable talents in administration and warfare, he however managed to bring the treasury to almost complete ruin by the end of his term, and botch the most impressive show of force in France any English king (including Edward III and Henry V) can ever master to assemble. Edward IV lived in the extraordinary age, full with great personalities like Richard Warwick the &quot;Kingmaker&quot;, Margaret, the queen of Henry VI, and his own kid brother Richard, future most vilified by Shakespeare king Richard the III. <br />It is very easy to fell victim to novelized history when relating the events as extraordinary as the events of Edward's reign. Not Charles Ross. He is extremely well researched and versed in the records of the period, and presents the somewhat dry details of the records of the Household and Exchequer, in an interesting way and extremely well cross-referenced. Internal English sources are corroborated by continental and papal records. I would recommend this book to a serious student of history.<br />Also see Charles Ross's &quot;Richard III&quot; for a mysterious, bloody, and tragically brief concluding reign of Plantagenet dynasty. This one is also highly recommended.	2001-05-17
US	53040707	R25K994BLZUY4J	0679761063	255646884	The Master of Go	Books	5	2	2	N	N	profound, honest masterpiece of style and subtlety	In my opinion, this is the most complex of Kawabata's books.  Kawabata's presentation of the eternal conflict between rapidly vanishing Japanese traditional culture (accelerated by opening of the country after Meiji restoration) and the newly Western-inspired way of life is treated in a bit more complex and conflicting ways in comparison with his other books and those of Tanizaki and Mishima. It is not clear where Kawabata stands. On one hand his admiration for the Master's of Go way is evident, on the other he admires Otake, Master's opponent in the game and the representative of the new. <br />Kawabata's treatment of generational conflicts reminds me of Tolstoy in &quot;Anna Karenina&quot; and Robert Musil in &quot;The Man Without Qualities&quot;.<br />Overall, this book is a delight, regardless of whether one understands Go or Japan. This book is as ecstatically pleasing as the finest Japanese calligraphy, and as such has a universal appeal.	2001-05-17
US	53040707	R1ZEAIFGELYN73	0300071574	357514689	Edward I (The English Monarchs Series)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	scholarly exposition of the memorable reign	Edward I (Yale English Monarchs) by Michael Prestwich is an extremely well researched, cross-referenced and influential book on the subject of early Plantagenet history. Drawn on the original records of the age (late 13th, early 14th century) is portrays different achievements of the productive reign - Edward a Lawgiver, Edward a Warrior in Scotland and France, Edward a Family Men, Edward a Diplomat, and ... of course Edward loosing his temper. Especially well presented are the accounts of the Household and Exchequer, and a review of Parliamentary activities of Edward. Books somewhat dry tone is justified by extensive reference collection. A great first scholarly introduction to one of the most important reigns in British history.	2001-05-15
US	53040707	R2SQ33GUK8XUBA	0898866162	270076305	Everest: The West Ridge	Books	5	4	6	N	N	best literary exposition of the drama of climbing	&quot;Everest : The West Ridge&quot; by Thomas F. Hornbein is an extremely well written book. A lot of climbers in their books are trying to explain why they climb - Hornbein gives one of the most honest, eloquent and convincing account; almost as good's as Mallory, who just said &quot;because it is there&quot;.<br />The book takes an honest, and sometime humorous account of foundational days of American Everest mountaineering; in sometimes naive ways the climbers are trying to vote themselves off the mountain; filling up psychological surveys in high camps, using a little robot to haul up food. In a matter-of-fact way Hornbein describes how they climbed beyond the point of safe return on the West Ridge, have to descend down the unknown to them side of the mountain, bivouac at 8500 meters .. and help their fellow climbers down the South Col route.<br />Now, 40 years after the climb, the book and the events are as true to the times and the spirit of climbing as ever. And besides, to the best of my knowledge, Hornbein and Unsoeld's is still the only traverse in Everest history.	2001-05-14
US	53040707	R2G6N8117ZTSI9	089886660X	657795520	All Fourteen 8,000ers	Books	5	7	7	N	N	well illustrated and documented	This by far is the best compendium of eye-witness account, photographs, maps and statistics from the first climber who ever scaled all 14 highest mountains in the world. Maps, topography, geography and route descriptions are concise and up to the point. Messner is not at his best when he is trying to put a philosophical spin on things, but on the other hand, who is? In summary, a very good book.	2001-05-10
US	53040707	R39N6LBWBXWPIK	0801843871	935373876	The Cheese and the Worms: The Cosmos of a Sixteenth-Century Miller	Books	3	11	17	N	N	interesting case in realistic recreating of cultural history	This book presents an interesting case in realistic recreating of history; when the well-documented record of the 16th century Inquisition Trial are brought into scrutiny based on the cultural context of the times. The most fascinating things for me were descriptions of the bookshelf of the 16th century peasant; with so few book which can influence oneself (and for most people it was just one book - a Bible). Unfortunately, the book tends to become more repeatable, looses focus and ultimately my interest. One can sense hesitation of the author - am I really writing a history or fiction; it is not thorough and detailed enough to be history, and narrative development is not exciting enough for it to become very good literature.	2001-05-10
US	53040707	RFDJ4ND2G6C8L	0767901053	370701760	Crooked Cucumber: The Life and Zen Teaching of Shunryu Suzuki	Books	5	5	5	N	N	honest account of Suzuki-roshi life told by his students	David Chadwick was able to interview a lot of the original students of Suzuki, letting each of them speak in their own voice. The book is not a sweet and reverential tale of the life of prominent Zen teacher, but the honest exposition of successes and failures of the man Suzuki-roshi was.  Particularly interesting to me were accounts of Suzuki's complex position on the issues of Japanese militarism during the WWII; and account of his first year in America, and how the Zen center just naturally happened. Chadwick's style is clear, concise and compact; occasional quotations from Suzuki are well positioned and illustrated by real-life examples. Well Done!!!	2001-05-09
US	53040707	R35U9V5C6CE648	0130172960	459121765	Enterprise Java Performance	Books	5	6	6	N	N	practical tips for advanced Java programmer	The book gives good overview of Java performance bootleneck stemming both from the language design constraints and the inherent design issues in distributed systems. What I like best is a list of practical implementation tips, which this book abounds with. Those tips would be a usefull addition to anybody's Java Coding Standards.	2001-05-09
US	53040707	R1H54KHO883FMT	0898863058	260598087	Antarctica: Both Heaven and Hell	Books	3	5	5	N	N	mixed bag of impressions	This book is very uneven, unfortunately. On one side, photography is splendid, historical and geological discussion are very thorough, the spirit of adventure is live and well. However, I am TIRED to find Messner complaining about his partner on every single page. And the translation is so bad, that one can almost study German grammar from the English presented. <br />The philosophical expositions in the book kept my feelings mixed as well. On one side (and perhaps this is due to a poor translation) it is full of heavy and sometimes overly sweet German Romanticism; one the other hand, Messner's treatment of the white void in front of him as a meditative medium is very honestly portrayed and splendidly presented.	2001-05-04
US	53040707	R9HA8N4EDK45X	0571200761	755830036	My Time With Antonioni: The Diary of an Extraordinary Experience	Books	5	5	5	N	N	On psychology of movie making	I enjoyed reading WW diary primarily for the insights to the personal struggles of the director working with somebody who is his master. Book is full of slight and not-so-slight overtones on the relationship between two men; sadness at the realization that &quot;Beyond the Clouds&quot; in all probability will be Antonioni's last movie; impossibility of filling in the personal artistic content for the other artist. I was amazed on the technique which Antonioni is unfortunately left with after his paralysis - finger gestures and a few disconnected utterances. I would recommend this book to a student of cinema; and also to the lover of biography genre.	2001-05-01
