US	53040192	R1FQPKCJKIU3TM	0060930497	922947589	Finding Darwin's God: A Scientist's Search For Common Ground Between God and Evolution	Books	3	9	18	N	N	Can non-determinism be non-random?	I just finished reading Dr. Kenneth Miller's book, \\"Finding Darwin's God.\\" The first part of the book is a rebuttal of creationist comments on evolution. The second part of the book is a defense of theism - specifically Western monotheism. Dr. Miller tries to pull off this feat by embracing Heisenberg's uncertainty principle as the means by which God gives us a \\"free will\\" that makes Christian theology relevant. But, by doing so, Dr. Miller commits the very fallacy he accuses creationists of - i.e. using gaps in human knowledge as a means to introduce God as being necessary.<br /><br />The first flaw of Dr. Miller's reasoning is that he treats Heisenberg's principle unlike any other scientific theory. He assumes it is an insurmountable reality forever - one that future sciences will never revise or overcome. But, as Dr. Miller points out in the first part of his book, relying on such a lack of imagination often ends badly for those religions that depend on such \\"nevers\\" to justify their faith. The reality is that Heisenberg's observation is not necessarily insurmountable. Therefore, to use the non-determinism of Heisenberg is to rest the case of monotheism on something that might go away in the future.<br /><br />In any case, a permanent state of non-determinism (i.e. Heisenberg's observation is indeed forever true every where) does not help the case for theism. Dr. Miller posits the idea that the non-determinism we perceive is composed of:<br /><br />1. Real randomness - i.e. quantum events that involve no guiding/intervening super-natural force; and/or<br /><br />2. Apparent randomness -- i.e. quantum events that are guided by an intervening super-natural force (a force that is beyond our ability to detect).<br /><br />Let's start with (2). It does not favor \\"free will\\" since a supernatural force that intervened in quantum events would be nudging outcomes in a particular direction without the conscious control or consent of human beings. This is the opposite of \\"free will.\\" Whereas (1) is precisely the kind of non-determinism that outspoken scientists speak of - i.e. \\"real random\\" quantum events without a role for a super-natural force.<br /><br />So, where is there a role for an active God except in (2), which we've already established abolishes the very \\"free will\\" that is necessary for Dr. Miller's case? And, even if we are generous and concede that (2) could be rationalized in some way to support \\"free will,\\" it begs more questions.<br /><br />For example, in a world where 90% of quantum events are \\"real randomness\\" and 10% are \\"apparent randomness,\\" how much free will exists? 10% or 100%? If you say 100%, ask yourself how much free will would exist in a world where 100% of quantum events are \\"real randomness\\" and 0% are \\"apparent randomness.\\" When you do the math, you realize that Dr. Miller is \\"multiplying complexity without necessity\\" (i.e. violating Occam's Razor). Dr. Miller's introduction of super-naturalism into non-determinism is superfluous at best. By being non-parsimonious, Dr. Miller introduces an entity/mechanism that amounts to theoretical baggage - not unlike the baggage creationists introduce when they try to insert God somewhere in the history of human evolution.site of \\"free will.\\" Whereas (1) is precisely the kind of non-determinism that outspoken scientists speak of - i.e. \\"real random\\" quantum events without a role for a super-natural force. <br /> <br />So, where is there a role for an active God except in (2), which we've already established abolishes the very \\"free will\\" that is necessary for Dr. Miller's case? And, even if we are generous and concede that (2) could be rationalized in some way to support \\"free will,\\" it begs more questions. <br /> <br />For example, in a world where 90% of quantum events are \\"real randomness\\" and 10% are \\"apparent randomness,\\" how much free will exists? 10% or 100%? If you say 100%, ask yourself how much free will would exist in a world where 100% of quantum events are \\"real randomness\\" and 0% are \\"apparent randomness.\\" When you do the math, you realize that Dr. Miller is \\"multiplying complexity without necessity\\" (i.e. violating Occam's Razor). Dr. Miller's introduction of super-naturalism into non-determinism is superfluous at best. By being non-parsimonious, Dr. Miller introduces an entity/mechanism that amounts to theoretical baggage - not unlike the baggage creationists introduce when they try to insert God somewhere in the history of human evolution.	2005-02-27
US	53040192	R1UMOULI4QR4YW	1573920673	619677722	2000 Years of Disbelief: Famous People with the Courage to Doubt	Books	5	27	30	N	N	Excellent Resource	The Booklist Editor review completely misses the point of this book. It's not intended as a debate book on the peasant poetry of the Christian/Jewish holy book; or on the arguments believers make on behalf of their religion. It's intended as a biographical summary of unbelievers throughout history since Christ. And, in that function, the book does a fine job.	2004-06-17
US	53040192	R3DU7C96WN67X0	1893007170	333924409	Alcoholics Anonymous: The Big Book	Books	3	41	63	N	Y	Mixed Feelings	I received a copy of this book recently. I haven't read through it in its entirety but I am familiar with the AA program, having attended AA meetings myself and also having friends who are in AA.<br />Without a doubt, AA has helped many people. And for that, it deserves the praise and recognition it receives. However, it does not work for everyone. And for those who are not helped by it, it's not a matter of not &quot;working the program&quot; or any other failure on their part. We all come from different backgrounds, some of which are not conducive to the AA approach.<br />For example, some people who have been hurt by fundamentalist religions seem to have a natural aversion to AA. It may be because of similarities having to do with self-debasement (You are helpless. You are powerless. You need to turn your will over to a Higher Will, etc.). In any case, it demonstrates the point that AA is not for everyone.<br />There is also the issue of intellectual integrity. For unbelievers (e.g. agnostics and atheists), many have reached their unbelief through a deliberative process. So, it is unrealistic to think that one should have to leave one's unbelief at the door in order to be &quot;saved&quot; from alcohol. One need not (and should not have to) prostitute one's mind in order to deal with chemical addiction. Other effective programs (e.g. Secular Organizations for Sobriety; and SMART Recovery) demonstrate that fact.<br />That people should not be forced by law to listen to ideas that are contrary to their own conscience seems as American as apple pie. Yet, the current healthcare system is heavily biased towards AA, often coercing people against their conscience. Fortunately, the courts are slowly coming to accept the fact that non-spiritual alternatives exist; and that people should be permitted to go where they receive the best help for their situation.	2004-05-21
US	53040192	R34OR2J4C8L34N	1400034183	575332371	Of Paradise and Power: America and Europe in the New World Order	Books	2	5	27	N	N	Dreamy	I only got a few pages into this book when I realized the author must be living in a fantasy land. His notions about the &quot;traditional&quot; view of Americans is so far from the truth that the remainder of the book seemed hardly worth reading. Americans have been introspective and isolationist for most of American history. Kagan may not like that fact and there may be valid arguments for why the Washingtonian viewpoint does not work well in reality. But, that's a far different matter than rewriting American history and asserting that Americans believe fervently in intervention and meddling in the affairs of other nations. Kagan may wish everyone was as adventerous in practice as he is in theory, but wishing does not make it so.	2004-04-17
US	53040192	R3IC5R3KOJ96M3	0804463786	847906885	The Philosophy of Humanism	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Primer on Secular Humanism	This book answers the &quot;what&quot; of secular humanism, but not the &quot;why.&quot; So, if you're looking for a &quot;debate&quot; or treatise on why humanism is the better philosophy for humankind, you may not find everything you want in this book. What the book does offer is an explanation of specific humanist &quot;tenets&quot; and what implications arise from them. The book covers the definition and history of humanism and then goes into specification application as it pertains to: unity of &quot;mind&quot; and body, origins, science, reason, ethics, freedom, happiness and democracy.	2003-12-07
US	53040192	R265BIDVIE2YUE	0679724532	275081924	The Gnostic Gospels	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Good primer on early stages of Christian religion	The existence of this book is a testament to one of its premises - namely, that little is known about the (suppressed) works of another &quot;sect&quot; of Christianity (Gnosticism) that evolved alongside the more (what we now view as) orthodox variant (Catholic). The orthodox variant would have succeeded in erasing all records of the existence of the other sect had it not been for the discovery of the Nag Hammadi in Egypt. These texts show that there were competing claims made on the &quot;one true faith&quot; in the first few centuries after Christ. While difficult to read in parts, the book discusses the main areas of differences between the competing views, including their ideas on the crucifixion, resurrection, the nature of God and Christ, church authority and hierarchy, and the role of women. If human nature was different (as far as what satisfies people spiritually) or if events had unfolded differently, what we recognize today as orthodox Christianity would very likely be different. History itself would be different.	2003-12-05
US	53040192	R2X8UFG732CC16	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	4	0	3	N	N	Clever plot with a dose of suspense and mystery	The narrative style is very much the same as in Angels &amp; Demons (which you should probably read first) - with ample use of symbolism and wonder to keep the reader hooked. The ending - predictable in kind, but not in substance makes it sufficiently distinguished to make the book a worthwhile read. There is also enough substance on the history of the Christian religion to lure the reader into further discovery of this fascinating subject.	2003-12-01
US	53040192	R2FI4HZMA5S6FK	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Fascinating and suspenseful read	If you are going to (or have) read The Da Vinci Code, you have to read this book as well. Both books follow the same style in how the plot unfolds and how the reader is drawn into the dramatic conclusion. And, while the style and form are not particularly original, the author's use of symbolism and religious factoids make it far more interesting than other books of the same genre. It's definitely a can't-put-down-page-turner. So, be sure to find yourself some &quot;free time&quot; before you dive in.	2003-12-01
US	53040192	R4WFH72MBICW3	1400050308	820650568	Treason: Liberal Treachery from the Cold War to the War on Terrorism	Books	2	7	19	N	N	More of the Same - Rank Partisan Claptrap	Another mostly worthless piece by conservatives' favorite dim bulb. As a conservative myself, I'm rather embarrassed to have someone like Coulter considered to be a shining star in the &quot;movement.&quot; But, then again, her fans are the same ones that essentially told George Washington to stick his 200-year non-preemptive war ideas where the sun don't shine ... in favor of the neo-conservate experiment in benevolent hegemony. What has become of the world? Do words and ideas no longer have meaning? What's next? Liberals whining about budget deficits?	2003-10-11
US	53040192	RKBELCR12AA9L	1400047285	150767402	Blinded by the Right: The Conscience of an Ex-Conservative	Books	3	6	14	N	N	Another Title Would Have Been More Accurate	This book would have been better titled: &quot;Blinded by Myself.&quot; Brock himself talks about the number of times he chose to look the other way when &quot;the Right&quot; was doing things that bothered or offended him. I didn't get any sense that anyone was trying to pull the wool over his eyes. His blindness seems to be of his own creation. I think he knows that and is angry about it. And, as well he should. Unfortunately, he has misdirected his anger and has lashed out at people and ideas rather than engaging in retrospection and holding himself responsible for the fact that he did not see clearly for so many years. This book would have been more credible had he done so.	2003-09-28
US	53040192	RISXLW6AROXTS	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	3	12	24	N	N	Funny As Expected. But Also Disappointing.	As if we needed another book to reinforce the contempt partisans hold for each other. Admittedly, the book is funny. But, in terms of contributing to anything useful in the political realm, the book is about as effective as the rhetoric that comes from the likes of Ann Coulter and others who poison the well for profit. Of course, Franken can get away with his brand of vitriol by labeling it &quot;sarcasm,&quot; &quot;analysis&quot; or &quot;satire.&quot; But, the impact on public discourse is the same - it further polarizes ideologues and turns the majority of moderate Americans off.	2003-09-21
US	53040192	R2ESA3G9X6ZTD	0316930164	838798147	All too Human	Books	4	1	3	N	Y	Not a Bad Primer on Clinton's First Term	Probably the most balanced perspective on the first Clinton term one can expect. You'd never catch rank partisans such as Begala or Carville writing anything remotely resembling the fairness applied by Stephanopoulos. For those with an open mind (neither rabidly for nor against Clinton), this is an excellent primer on Clinton, the man. For all his intellect and political wisdom, Clinton did some really stupid things - things that defied common sense - things that came with high risk, but little promise of reward. Clinton's human nature got the better of his \\"book smarts,\\" which makes Stephanopoulos sub-title appropriate. I do have two pans about the book. First, Stephanopoulos' superficial treatment of how inexperienced White House staff \\"accidentally\\" procured FBI files on 900 Republicans. He mentions it, but never explains it. Second, a subject he fails to mention at all - Why Bill Clinton was laughing at Ron Brown's funeral (which, when caught, suddenly composed himself into a \\"mourning\\" pose).	2003-09-02
US	53040192	R1RPSO4XJ18BCQ	0738834807	805816414	THE GUIDE FOR PENNY STOCK INVESTING	Books	2	10	12	N	Y	Woefully Lacking	This is one of the most poorly written books I have ever read. It is full of grammatical, syntactical and spelling errors (for example, &quot;a lot&quot; is spelled as &quot;allot&quot; throughout the book). As far as the subject matter goes, it does an injustice to the word &quot;investing.&quot; It would have been better to label it speculating or gambling. Even the late Al Frank, who based his stock buying on fundamental value, insisted on referring to the stock market as speculating. In any case, this book suffers from a classic case of confusing brains with a bull market. From 1995-2000, anyone could have &quot;succeeded&quot; in the stock market regardless of what market capitalization one decided to &quot;play.&quot; Neither this book, nor most others on the subject, are particularly useful in knowing how best to &quot;invest&quot; in penny stocks over the long run.	2003-08-23
US	53040192	R3NFSSGGF9T44F	B00005X4AQ	399926436	The Wall Street gang	Books	4	35	36	N	Y	Market Makers = Crooks-R-Us	An eye-opener. Even after all the security laws/regulations passed during/after the Great Depression, there is still an insiders club that exists within the Stock Exchanges. And that &quot;club&quot; continues to fleece the average retail investor. The Exchange rationalizes the &quot;club&quot; as necessary to stabilize market prices. When in reality, the &quot;club&quot; introduces instability for its own gain. Corporate insiders have to disclose stock transactions. Why not the market makers? Even though the book is thirty-years old, it still rings true today. The club still exists and the government still has done relatively little to reign in the abuses of the insiders &quot;club.&quot;	2002-03-24
US	53040192	R3GF4C0BG71ESN	1556236832	635384044	Stan Weinstein's Secrets For Profiting in Bull and Bear Markets	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Timeless Technical Analysis Treatise	You can fight with yourself over what the stock market ought to do ... or what a company's stock ought to be doing. You can try to calm your fears by taking comfort in a company's fundamentals ... under-valuations ... low P/Es ... low PEGs ... projected growth ... etc. But, when all is said and done, it doesn't mean squat if the price is not confirming what you think or feel. In short, the &quot;tape&quot; (or chart) does not lie. You can argue with it, but you can't beat it. Whether you choose to fight the tape or follow it, will determine how successful you are in the market. Weinstein shows you how to follow it.	2002-03-24
US	53040192	R1IXGAXZYVMI36	0895262436	266973565	Sellout: The Inside Story of President Clinton's Impeachment	Books	5	27	32	N	N	Political Corruption to the Core	If you want to maintain any sense of political idealism, you may not want to read this book. On the other hand, if you want to know the brutal truth, you cannot forego reading this book. Schippers writes in plain language what most probably sense is reality - that both political parties are corrupt and immoral. But few probably know how rampant and deep it goes. The impeachment trial of William Jefferson Clinton revealed the depth of the corruption and immorality - where all but a few Senators perjured themselves by swearing to do impartial justice even though they had already made up their mind. Did you know that not one Senator from either political party bothered to examine the reams of evidence that the Schippers team had spent months accumulating and organizing? Did you know that Trent Lott and Ted Stevens explicitly stated in closed-door meetings that the trial was going to be short-circuited and that the House impeachment manager's case would be sabotaged? But there is a lot more that people said and did to sellout the Constitution and abandon their oath to uphold it. And Schippers documents it all. If you cannot tolerate the naked truth, this book is not for you. If you want to know the truth and are willing to take action to see the corruption eradicated, you must read this book.	2001-02-03
US	53040192	R1QVVJR0FIXY5U	0895265133	604898273	Nofziger	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Funny, Informative and Insightful	Lyn Nofziger was part of Ronald Reagan's hard-core conservative inner-circle since before the time Reagan was governor of California. In this book, Nofziger provides historical insights that help us understand the Reagan we knew; as well as to reveal to us a side of Reagan we never knew. Nofziger writes about the good times as well as the bad and shows how the Reagan Team bonded and evolved over the years. It's a fascinating recollection from a man who not only was there, but who knew Reagan intimately. Nofziger's memoirs provide the reader with a greater insight and appreciation for the man we called The Gipper. The end of the book is somewhat disheartening as it reveals the demise of the inner-circle during Reagan's second term as President. As someone with a romantic view of the Reagan Era, it was eye-opening to discover how badly the Reagan Revolution was undermined from within. But, you have to be willing to accept the good with the bad. And this book will most definitely give you both. A must read for all Reagan fans. Oh, and Nofziger is as funny as hell.	2001-01-25
US	53040192	R1ZZEWRX1AXVN7	0944379079	359158523	Trilaterals Over America	Books	3	12	38	N	Y	Does Circumstantial Evidence Alone Imply Conspiracy?	This book relies heavily on rhetoric, question begging, circumstantial  evidence and conjecture. It argues from a conclusion - namely that there is  some grand Council of Foreign Relations (CFR) / Trilateral Commission (TC)  conspiracy/plot; and then seeks to make the data confirm to that foregone  conclusion.<br />The book certainly puts forth an interest theory; and I give  the author credit for the imaginative ways he makes the data seemingly  correlate with his hypothesis. But one is reminded of the old adage -  figures don't lie, but liars figure. And that correlation does not imply  causation.<br />I'm not suggesting that the author is necessarily lying. But I  do think he combined and presented circumstantial evidence in ways that  only beg the question about a CFR/TC conspiracy. If I were a juror, I would  have to vote to acquit due to a lack of any real hard evidence.<br />If you  already have your mind made up about a CFR/TC conspiracy, this book will  tell you what you want to hear. If your mind is not already made up, I  doubt very much that this book will persuade you to agree with the author's  presuppositions.	2000-09-18
US	53040192	R22T4VTMYP1PXR	0967542502	467096229	The Wizard of " IS " : The Short, Ugly Story of the Impeachment of Billy Jeff Clinton and His Trailer Park Presidency	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	Educational &amp; Funny	The good Professor is one funny guy. This book will have you rolling on  the floor laughing out loud. And it will do so while educating you on the  debacle/scandal that was and is the Clinton Years. From the bimbo eruptions  to the servicing intern, it covers it all. If you want to indulge in the  lighter side of &quot;historical analysis,&quot; this is the book for you.  Enjoy!	2000-09-17
US	53040192	R3AW2L8NRHO46J	1859842844	676518692	No One Left To Lie To: The Values of the Worst Family	Books	4	32	37	N	Y	Finally, a Left-Winger Who Admits to Clinton Corruption	It is quite refreshing to see that honest liberals still exist.  Christopher Hitchens, no friend of Hillary's imaginary &quot;vast right  wing conspiracy,&quot; takes great exception to the Clinton Era. And no,  it's not just about sex. It's about rampant dishonesty and corruption - the  selling of Commerce Department travel seats for campaign donations, renting  of the Lincoln bedroom for re-election cash, selling of nuclear technology  secrets in exchange for Beijing assistance in the 1996 re-election  campaign, bombing of a poor country's aspirin factory to divert attention  from personal problems, illegally releasing private information on citizens  in order to discredit them, intimidating and threatening witnesses,  obstructing justice, etc. etc. Hitchens confirms what the Right had been  saying since 1993 - this is arguably the most corrupt administration in  American history. It is refreshing to finally hear from someone on the left  who isn't in the business of excusing and apologizing for this rampant  corruption - to call a spade a spade. This book is for those who are  interested in more than just economic prosperity - who are concerned about  the long-term precedents set by this administration, which will undermine  American democracy for many years to come. Those who insist on acknowledge  no fault in this president, don't bother wasting time reading this book -  it won't give you the warm and fuzzy needed to maintain your illusion that  this is the &quot;most ethical administration ever.&quot;	2000-09-04
US	53040192	R3TSD4T6NVZGA7	0967542502	467096229	The Wizard of " IS " : The Short, Ugly Story of the Impeachment of Billy Jeff Clinton and His Trailer Park Presidency	Books	5	0	2	N	Y	Educational &amp; Funny	The good Professor is one funny guy. This book will have you rolling on the floor laughing out loud. And it will do so while educating you on the debacle/scandal that was and is the Clinton Years. From the bimbo eruptions  to the servicing intern, it covers it all. If you want to indulge in the  lighter side of &quot;historical analysis,&quot; this is the book for you.  Enjoy!	2000-05-22
US	53040192	R27FRHQ9G5AZMJ	0739202723	467096229	The Wizard of "IS": The Short, Ugly Story of the Impeachment of Billy Jeff Clinton and His Trailer Park Presidency	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Educational &amp; Funny	The good Professor is one funny guy. This book will have you rolling on the floor laughing out loud. And it will do so while educating you on the debacle/scandal that was and is the Clinton Years. From the bimbo eruptions  to the servicing intern, it covers it all. If you want to indulge in the  lighter side of &quot;historical analysis,&quot; this is the book for you.  Enjoy!	2000-05-22
US	53040192	RCT9Y06PQV49A	0895268221	274539048	Suicide of the West: An Essay on the Meaning and Destiny of Liberalism	Books	5	43	48	N	N	Modern Liberalism Cannot Protect the West Against Communism	This book was written in 1964 but is as relevant (if not more so) today than it was when first published. Since that time, modern liberalism has moved further leftward and worldwide Communist revolutionary impulses have  only marginally declined, notwithstanding the collapse of the Soviet Union.  Red China is becoming the new Red menace and Russia is in the midst of  potentially dangerous changes.<br />The very premise of this book has played  out on the world scene since its writing. The liberal approach towards  Communism (i.e. appeasement) in the 1970s had weakened the Western resolve  to contain Communism just as Burnham predicted it would. On the other hand,  the 1980s demonstrated the efficacy of the opposite approach, namely  mustering the will and resources to rollback Communism. And the 1990s  served to remind us all once again how ill-equipped liberalism is in  containing Communism as the Red Dragon raised its ugly head and the Bear  grew restless.<br />Burnham spends the first two-thirds of the book describing  the liberal worldview in intellectual and moral terms. He begins by first  outlining the major tenets of liberalism and shows from whence they arose.  He then demonstrates how some of these tenets are intellectually weak due  to their internal inconsistency, mutual incompatibility, and failures in  application.<br />Burnham then shifts to the moral/psychological aspect of  liberalism, specifically the role of values in liberal ideology; and the  priority that liberals give to those values. He also explains the  sentiments that drive the commitment to liberalism and explains how, in  many cases, those sentiments are inconsistent with the intellectual tenets  of liberalism. He also describes the powerful role guilt plays in the  liberal impulse towards egalitarianism.<br />Especially enlightening is  Burnham's contrasting of the modern liberal with the classical liberal of  the 19th century. He makes the comparison by showing that many of the  intellectual tenets of modern liberalism are absent from the 19th century  laissez-faire version. He also describes how and why values have been  inverted - namely that the modern liberal now esteems peace/security above  freedom/liberty.<br />With the intellectual/psychological analysis of  liberalism complete, Burnham then proceeds to evaluate the threat of  Communism to Western Civilization. His explanation of Communism's inherent  demand to achieve world dominance is superb. There is no mistaking the fact  that co-existence with capitalism is simply not an option for the  Communist.<br />But because modern liberalism shares similar egalitarian  impulses with Communism, it is intellectually and morally weakened before  the Red menace. In short, it is difficult to oppose Communism from the  Left. There simply is too much in common to come out in direct opposition  to its ideology. This is not to say that liberals support Communist  tactics, although they have been among the Kremlin's chief apologists at  various times (e.g. 1930s, 1960s).<br />Because liberals share many  egalitarian goals with Communism, they become &quot;useful idiots&quot; for  the world revolutionaries, whose interest it is to create instability in  non-Communist countries. For example, it is now known (vis-&agrave;-vis post-Cold  War Archives) that the Soviet Union incited and exploited much of the  American civil unrest (1930s, 1960s) that liberal ideologues created in  their pursuit of egalitarianism. In essence, because of an overlap in their  common goals, the Communists found the modern liberal to be a useful tool  for hastening the world revolution of the proletariat.<br />However, unlike  its explicit goals, liberal sentiments are actually quite disjoint from the  Communist. In fact, the differences in sentiments are what permit  Communists to use liberals to further their revolutionary goals. For  example, the liberal's quest for peace is not the same as the Communist's.  The Communist seespeace as the calm arising out of a world free of  capitalism. It does not mean peace achieved by nation's agreeing to mutual  co-existence. But the Communist finds the liberal's pursuit of  &quot;peace&quot; useful in order to weaken the security of non-Communist  nations.<br />So willingly or unwittingly, modern liberals, especially from  the West, are essentially useless when it comes to halting the Communist  quest to dominate and eventually overthrow non-communist systems. Their  perspective prevents them from confronting the non-rational ideological  menace with the only principle it understands -- force.<br />Only a hard-line  stance (as Ronald Reagan promoted) and proactive measures will put a check  on an ideology that has world domination as its ultimate goal. This lesson  has been demonstrated once as a result of the Cold War outcome. And one can  only hope and pray that the lesson will not be forgotten. Because if it is,  the West will indeed commit suicide and be delivered into the hands of  International Communism.as the calm arising out of a world free of  capitalism. It does not mean peace achieved by nation's agreeing to mutual  co-existence. But the Communist finds the liberal's pursuit of  &quot;peace&quot; useful in order to weaken the security of non-Communist  nations.<br />So willingly or unwittingly, modern liberals, especially from  the West, are essentially useless when it comes to halting the Communist  quest to dominate and eventually overthrow non-communist systems. Their  perspective prevents them from confronting the non-rational ideological  menace with the only principle it understands -- force.<br />Only a hard-line  stance (as Ronald Reagan promoted) and proactive measures will put a check  on an ideology that has world domination as its ultimate goal. This lesson  has been demonstrated once as a result of the Cold War outcome. And one can  only hope and pray that the lesson will not be forgotten. Because if it is,  the West will indeed commit suicide and be delivered into the hands of  International Communism.	2000-05-20
US	53040192	R36YX5QSNO1D6S	096532088X	346144738	The March of Freedom: Modern Classics in Conservative Thought	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An Anthology of Conservative Thought in the 20th Century	This book by no means covers the breadth and depth of conservative thought during the 20th century; but it does give the reader a glimpse into the mindset and thoughts of some of conservatism's most heroic figures. Of  course, Feulner himself is one of those heroes. So it is fitting that he  would write about his contemporaries. The book provides brief biographical  and bibliographical information on each conservative hero along with an  essay/article that epitomizes what that individual represented. The heroes  include the minds of the conservative movement: William F. Buckley, Jr.,  Russell Kirk, F.A. Hayek, Milton Friedman and Frank S. Meyer; and the  witnesses of the conservative movement: Midge Dector, Albert Jay Nock,  Whittaker Chambers, Michael Novak, Wilhelm Roepke, Richard M. Weaver and  President Ronald Reagan. This book is a must read for modern conservatives  since bridging the ideas from the past to the present is essential to  promoting free markets, individual liberty, and smaller government.	2000-05-07
US	53040192	R7UZ8X7YMMRF5	189062621X	991819171	Hating Whitey: And Other Progressive Causes	Books	5	60	65	N	N	Stop the Insanity! Stop the Blame Game!	It's a pity that David Horowitz has to write this account thirty-five years after the 1964 Civil Rights Act was passed. But the sad truth is that the vision of Martin Luther King has been bastardized into racial Marxism,  where non-blacks have become the everlasting foe that must be crushed. As  Horowitz makes clear, much of the regress and setbacks in the  African-American community is a result not of &quot;whitey&quot; but of  black leaders themselves -- who encourage young blacks to think of  themselves as oppressed victims needing assistance and protection from a  benevolent government. But notions of victimhood encourages resentment and  does nothing to help blacks to reach their full potential. Instead, it  makes them focus on obstacles, real or imagined. And this state of mind is  self-fulfilling, producing failure more frequently than success. And the  failure, in turn, drives the drumbeat of &quot;blame whitey&quot; instead  of focusing on the real cause of failure -- the black victimhood mentality  perpetuated by intellectual elitists who claim to have the interest of  black people at heart. Horowitz refers to decades of carnage (e.g. the  destruction of the black family via liberal anti-family welfare incentives)  to demonstrate the consequences of following the line that blacks need ever  more government to help them because they can't help themselves. It's time  to end the insanity! Blacks are human beings equally capable of reaching  their potential if only others would stop lying to them about hurdles and  roadblocks. A positive message of hope along with elevating black role  models (e.g. Clarence Thomas, Thomas Sowell, Alan Keyes, etc.) is the key  not only to black achievement -- but also the key to reducing racial  tensions -- and the culture of blaming one another for our own failures.	2000-05-07
US	53040192	R2HZHE3RZ3TTZ4	0965834816	934203457	Peril In Panama: China As The Gatekeeper Of The Panama Canal Threatens New Missile Crisis	Books	5	6	9	N	N	How Could Our National Leaders Let This Happen?	This book describes the events that have transpired, allowing Red China to become the gatekeepers of the Panama Canal by proxy. The Clinton administration as well as Congress share the blame for not exercising  America's option to rescind the 1977 Carter-Torrijos Treaty in the name of  national security. All that has been accomplished is to give the Red  Chinese a staging area for launching medium-range missiles on America; not  to mention the very real risk of impeding the transport of American  military vehicles in times of crisis. In short, the Peril in Panama is not  an IF proposition, but a WHEN proposition. The short-term myopic  (non-)response of the President and Congress IS going to result in a  long-term national/military crisis. The nature of the crisis and when it  can be expected are not certain. But there will be a crisis of national  security to be sure. Protecting citizens from threats, both foreign and  domestic, are one of the few responsibilities of the federal government. So  why aren't our national leaders doing their job? Every freedom-loving  American needs to read this booklet and contact their  Senators/Representative to demand action.	2000-05-07
US	53040192	R3RRWZN607AZNU	0786100222	274539048	Suicide of the West: An Essay on the Meaning and Destiny of Liberalism (Library Edition)	Books	5	35	41	N	N	Modern Liberalism Cannot Protect the West Against Communism	This book was written in 1964 but is as relevant (if not more so) today than it was when first published. Since that time, modern liberalism has moved further leftward and worldwide Communist revolutionary impulses have  only marginally declined, notwithstanding the collapse of the Soviet Union.  Red China is becoming the new Red menace and Russia is in the midst of  potentially dangerous changes.<br />The very premise of this book has played  out on the world scene since its writing. The liberal approach towards  Communism (i.e. appeasement) in the 1970s had weakened the Western resolve  to contain Communism just as Burnham predicted it would. On the other hand,  the 1980s demonstrated the efficacy of the opposite approach, namely  mustering the will and resources to rollback Communism. And the 1990s  served to remind us all once again how ill-equipped liberalism is in  containing Communism as the Red Dragon raised its ugly head and the Bear  grew restless.<br />Burnham spends the first two-thirds of the book describing  the liberal worldview in intellectual and moral terms. He begins by first  outlining the major tenets of liberalism and shows from whence they arose.  He then demonstrates how some of these tenets are intellectually weak due  to their internal inconsistency, mutual incompatibility, and failures in  application.<br />Burnham then shifts to the moral/psychological aspect of  liberalism, specifically the role of values in liberal ideology; and the  priority that liberals give to those values. He also explains the  sentiments that drive the commitment to liberalism and explains how, in  many cases, those sentiments are inconsistent with the intellectual tenets  of liberalism. He also describes the powerful role guilt plays in the  liberal impulse towards egalitarianism.<br />Especially enlightening is  Burnham's contrasting of the modern liberal with the classical liberal of  the 19th century. He makes the comparison by showing that many of the  intellectual tenets of modern liberalism are absent from the 19th century  laissez-faire version. He also describes how and why values have been  inverted - namely that the modern liberal now esteems peace/security above  freedom/liberty.<br />With the intellectual/psychological analysis of  liberalism complete, Burnham then proceeds to evaluate the threat of  Communism to Western Civilization. His explanation of Communism's inherent  demand to achieve world dominance is superb. There is no mistaking the fact  that co-existence with capitalism is simply not an option for the  Communist.<br />But because modern liberalism shares similar egalitarian  impulses with Communism, it is intellectually and morally weakened before  the Red menace. In short, it is difficult to oppose Communism from the  Left. There simply is too much in common to come out in direct opposition  to its ideology. This is not to say that liberals support Communist  tactics, although they have been among the Kremlin's chief apologists at  various times (e.g. 1930s, 1960s).<br />Because liberals share many  egalitarian goals with Communism, they become &quot;useful idiots&quot; for  the world revolutionaries, whose interest it is to create instability in  non-Communist countries. For example, it is now known (vis-&agrave;-vis post-Cold  War Archives) that the Soviet Union incited and exploited much of the  American civil unrest (1930s, 1960s) that liberal ideologues created in  their pursuit of egalitarianism. In essence, because of an overlap in their  common goals, the Communists found the modern liberal to be a useful tool  for hastening the world revolution of the proletariat.<br />However, unlike  its explicit goals, liberal sentiments are actually quite disjoint from the  Communist. In fact, the differences in sentiments are what permit  Communists to use liberals to further their revolutionary goals. For  example, the liberal's quest for peace is not the same as the Communist's.  The Communist seespeace as the calm arising out of a world free of  capitalism. It does not mean peace achieved by nation's agreeing to mutual  co-existence. But the Communist finds the liberal's pursuit of  &quot;peace&quot; useful in order to weaken the security of non-Communist  nations.<br />So willingly or unwittingly, modern liberals, especially from  the West, are essentially useless when it comes to halting the Communist  quest to dominate and eventually overthrow non-communist systems. Their  perspective prevents them from confronting the non-rational ideological  menace with the only principle it understands -- force.<br />Only a hard-line  stance (as Ronald Reagan promoted) and proactive measures will put a check  on an ideology that has world domination as its ultimate goal. This lesson  has been demonstrated once as a result of the Cold War outcome. And one can  only hope and pray that the lesson will not be forgotten. Because if it is,  the West will indeed commit suicide and be delivered into the hands of  International Communism.peace as the calm arising out of a world free of  capitalism. It does not mean peace achieved by nation's agreeing to mutual  co-existence. But the Communist finds the liberal's pursuit of  &quot;peace&quot; useful in order to weaken the security of non-Communist  nations.<br />So willingly or unwittingly, modern liberals, especially from  the West, are essentially useless when it comes to halting the Communist  quest to dominate and eventually overthrow non-communist systems. Their  perspective prevents them from confronting the non-rational ideological  menace with the only principle it understands -- force.<br />Only a hard-line  stance (as Ronald Reagan promoted) and proactive measures will put a check  on an ideology that has world domination as its ultimate goal. This lesson  has been demonstrated once as a result of the Cold War outcome. And one can  only hope and pray that the lesson will not be forgotten. Because if it is,  the West will indeed commit suicide and be delivered into the hands of  International Communism.	2000-05-07
US	53040192	R1I6KCYR27BPVP	1566632587	660651610	The Betrayal of Liberalism: How the Disciples of Freedom and Equality Helped Foster the Illiberal Politics of Coercion and Control	Books	5	86	92	N	Y	Founding Values Transformed into Marxist Egalitarianism	Kramer and Kimball show how classical liberalism (free-markets, free-people, small government) has been betrayed and abandoned in favor of a &quot;modernized&quot; version that inverts the priorities of the  classicists -- namely the promotion of controlled-markets,  regulated-people, and an activist government. Freedom (personal or  economic) is no longer the most important guiding principle. Rather  egalitarianism and vague notions of equality and social justice are  promoted instead. The consequence has been the creation of a top-heavy  administrative (bureaucratic, regulated) State that continually seeks to  increase its sphere of influence -- a centralized federal power that  consume 20% of the nation's production. And while modern liberalism still  pays lip service to personal freedom, its ambition for egalitarianism  necessarily impose on both economic and personal freedom -- hence the books  subtitle, &quot;How the Disciples of Freedom and Equality Helped Foster The  Illiberal Politics of Coercion and Control.&quot; This book is an essential  read for those wishing to understand how American values were transformed  from those of the Founding Fathers to those of Marx.	2000-05-07
US	53040192	R19AF72UT58HAX	046508995X	469991966	The Vision of the Anointed: Self-Congratulation as a Basis for Social Policy	Books	5	38	44	N	N	A Delightful Dethroning of our Saviors (a/k/a the Anointed)	Sowell must have written this book with tongue in cheek. Of course, the subject matter is perfectly serious. But Sowell has a profound wit that penetrates into the heart of the liberal ideology. One might even consider  it a psychoanalysis of the liberal mentality.<br />But whatever one calls it,  there can be no doubt about its poignancy and accuracy. A lot of what  Sowell says is something that many of the \\"benighted\\" know but have been  unable to cohere or articulate. Sowell fills this gap by making sense of it  all. One is left with not only a clear sense of what the \\"vision of the  anointed\\" is, but also what motivates those holding the vision.<br />Liberals  will no doubt find this book to be galling if not for its pricking  accuracy, then for Sowell's attempt to deconstruct the liberal psyche.  After all, nobody likes to be analyzed by others, especially when the  analysis points out that we are self-righteous, self-absorbed,  condescending, and full of hubris.<br />As someone who has observed liberals  for a long time, including my own journey into and out of the liberal  faith, I can attest to what Sowell describes. But if all Sowell did were  write a description, this book would be of little value. The value comes  from Sowell himself - his organization of the presentation and especially  the style of his delivery. In short, coherent and articulate.<br />This book  is a must read for conservatives. You will be satisfied to finally have a  resource that makes sense of it all. Where do liberals come from? What do  they believe? Why do they believe? What motivates them? Why do they say and  do certain things? Why are they wrong so often? All of these questions and  more are answered in this book.	2000-01-04
US	53040192	R31RC1Q42MDAD6	0895263548	257659679	America's Thirty Years War: Who Is Winning?	Books	5	8	10	N	Y	Two Ideologies Are Competing for America's Soul	Vazsonyi does a wonderful job of reducing the battle forAmerica's soul to between two very different ideologies. The first isrooted in Anglo-American ideas and practice that have produced the greatest freedom and standard of living the world has ever known. The second is rooted in French and German sentiments that have produced such ideologies as Nazism, Socialism, and Communism - ideologies that not only have failed to deliver, but have produced tyranny, death, and poverty.  He concentrates on philosophical origins, methods of operations, and manifestations.<br />Vazsonyi explains the philosophical basis for the ideological battle as well as the fruits of that battle, especially in what has come to be known as the &quot;Culture War.&quot;<br />The end of the Cold War was a wonderful victory for the West.  However, it did not destroy the undercurrents of the ideological struggle.  Communism is alive and well and is eating away at America's soul from within. It is refreshing to see an author who calls a spade a spade in labeling those that would like nothing better than to do away with all vestiges of Anglo-American influence.<br />This book is long overdue, especially in its frankness. I hope to see more like it.	1999-12-28
US	53040192	R12NGPCM2KMW9A	1877905275	324309677	Revolution and Counter-Revolution	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Understanding &amp; Battling the Historic Revolutionary Impulse	This book was first written in 1959 but its content has not become irrelevant precisely because it discusses historic trends that span centuries. Oliveira explains the nature of the Revolutionary Impulse and  how it has been manifest in Three Revolutions - Renaissance, French  Revolution, Communism.<br />However, these historic movements are incidental  to the underlying philosophy that seeks to abolish order, hierarchy, and  authority in the name of seeking absolute equality and unrestrained  freedom. Especially helpful is Oliveira's insight into the motives and  methods of the Revolutionaries and their potential future tactics and  activities.<br />But that is only half the book. The second half discusses how  the Counter-Revolution is to confront, halt, and turn back this  Revolutionary Impulse. Oliveira provides extremely helpful advice and  caveats for those wishing to join in the fight to preserve order,  hierarchy, and authority against the schemes of utopian dreamers.<br />The  book helps motivate the reader by giving him a true sense of the pervasive  universal struggle that at times seems imperceptible but occasionally  erupts in upheavals and unrest (e.g. the above noted three  revolutions).<br />But most of all, the book is a how-to guide for the  Counter-Revolutionary. It helps one &quot;know thy enemy&quot; and then  lays out a plan for how to challenge and overcome that enemy. A must read  for those that strive to uphold order and to defend all that is good and  decent.	1999-12-27
US	53040192	R1OKUDFZB3HGIE	0684864622	999961074	The Quest for Cosmic Justice	Books	5	114	121	N	N	And Satan Said: &quot;Ye Will Be As Gods&quot;	As I read this book, the thoughts of arrogance, condescension, and hubris came to mind - not towards the author - but towards the subjects of his discussion. Certainly one cannot fault the social engineers and  institutional &quot;tinkerers&quot; for their intentions. However,  intentions are not the measure of success - results are.<br />The policies of  the &quot;anointed&quot; have become gospel, not subject to debate or  empirical verification. In essence, anyone who disagrees with them or  offers another approach is necessarily opposed to the intentions of those  holding the true &quot;gospel&quot; of social harmony, prosperity, and  peace.<br />But this substitute for evidence and effectiveness has failed the  most important element - those who are the intended beneficiaries of the  &quot;anointed&quot; policies. The efforts to &quot;equalize&quot; and  pursue &quot;cosmic justice&quot; not only have few success stories - but  rather there is an abundance of proof to show that their policies are  counter-productive and even harmful.<br />But never mind the petty details!  We're merely interested in doing the right thing, having the right motives,  having our hearts in the right place, etc. Consequences be damned! We know  what works best! The conquest for social justice will not be deterred by  such things as uncooperative human beings, lack of success, or the Rule of  Law.<br />This book is an excellent follow-up to Sowell's &quot;Vision of the  Anointed&quot; as it drives home the point that those who embrace visions  of cosmic ideals are embarking upon an endeavor requiring super-human  skill. And their pursuit in spite of this fact does good for no one - not  the least of which are those who they claim to want to help. In pursuit of  their cosmic ideals, the visionaries have become impervious to the reality  that frustrates their plans.<br />It is past time to cease the game of  demonizing those that disagree with the ideas and policies of the  &quot;anointed.&quot; It's time for the &quot;gods of social justice&quot;  to admit their humanity and potential for failure - to re-open discussion  so that the business of genuinely helping people can take place.<br />For  those interested in an outside observer's perspective (i.e. outside the  circle of the &quot;anointed&quot;) on the practicality and efficacy of the  modern vision of social justice, this book is a must read. Those who are  part of the &quot;anointed&quot; or supporters of the same are going to  find Sowell's assessment disturbing. Nevertheless, a symbolic gesture from  an &quot;anointed&quot; would be his willingness to abandon his  self-righteousness by reading this book with an open heart and mind.ted.&quot; It's time for the &quot;gods of social justice&quot;  to admit their humanity and potential for failure - to re-open discussion  so that the business of genuinely helping people can take place.<br />For  those interested in an outside observer's perspective (i.e. outside the  circle of the &quot;anointed&quot;) on the practicality and efficacy of the  modern vision of social justice, this book is a must read. Those who are  part of the &quot;anointed&quot; or supporters of the same are going to  find Sowell's assessment disturbing. Nevertheless, a symbolic gesture from  an &quot;anointed&quot; would be his willingness to abandon his  self-righteousness by reading this book with an open heart and mind.	1999-12-26
US	53040192	R2BHLPRQP47Z5A	0060987197	303485416	Slouching Towards Gomorrah	Books	5	124	162	N	Y	Describes Impact of Traditional Liberalism Turned Radical	Judge Bork does a superb job of describing the various elements of destruction that have arisen from the application of modern liberalism to American society. He also offers best and worst case scenarios for the  future of the Republic if the current trends continue. <br />Bork makes it  clear that he speaks not of the traditional liberalism exercised by the  Founding Fathers but rather an ideological departure from that tradition  that has hijacked and bastardized the name. <br />The modern form of  liberalism consists of radical egalitarianism, which inherently requires a  coercive State. It also consists of a radical individualism that corrodes  institutions of restraint (i.e. family, religion, etc.) eventually leading  to a free-for-all that will require the strong hand of government to  contain. The centrality and powerfulness of the State in modern liberalism  is its most radical departure from traditional liberalism. <br />Bork does not  deride the successes and accomplishment of liberalism when it still  possessed the goals and intentions compatible with its tradition - e.g.  civil rights for minorities, suffrage for women, etc. However, it quickly  evolved into an entirely different beast in the mid-to-late 1960s and has  never looked back. The fact that there are currently fifty-five professed  Socialists in the U.S. House of Representatives (all Democrat) is testimony  to the extreme left-turn taken by those calling themselves liberal today.  <br />Bork does deride the goals, intentions, and actions of this new breed of  liberal. It is virulently anti-American and anti-Western Civilization. As  it has with the term &quot;liberalism,&quot; the modern liberal has  hijacked worthy causes (e.g. civil rights) and has politicized them in  order to advance their radical agenda. Modern liberalism wishes to rob  America of its unique heritage and to replace it with a revolutionary  concept of human nature and human governance. <br />Bork goes through the  variouscomponents of society where modern liberalism has left the mark of  its poison - crime, illegitimacy, welfare, abortion, assisted suicide, sex  (feminism), race (racial-preferences), ethnicity (multi-culturalism),  education (anti-intellectualism, post-modernism), religion, etc. While Bork  is careful not to place the blame entirely on the 1960s radicals, he does  point out that they were the climax of an ideological swing. <br />The 1960s  radicals are now tenured professors and hold other positions of leadership  and influence. They may no longer be assaulting police officers and burning  buildings, but they continue to spread their poison in institutions of  higher learning, government bureaucracies, think-tanks, and on the judicial  bench. The impact of their influence permeates throughout society and is  manifest especially on college campuses where the students of radical  professors carry the torch of anti-Americanism, anti-Europeans,  anti-capitalism, anti-Western Culture, anti-white, anti-male, etc. <br />Bork  makes it clear that continuing down the current path can only spell  disaster for America's future - where inter-racial, inter-gender,  inter-ethnic antagonism reaches a peak of resentment and hostility leading  to the breakdown of civil order. <br />Perhaps this is what modern liberals  want - a revolution to remake America in their own image and dispense with  its entire heritage. But this is clearly not what most Americans want,  which leads to Bork's point that the liberal radicals are a small minority  of lites that have an impact totally out of proportion to their numbers.  <br />Bork offers several options for reversing the trend towards social  implosion. However, he quickly reduces the choices to one that focuses on  the re-assertion of institutions of order and virtue - family and religion.  It is only by reviving these institutions that there may be any hope of  taking the momentum out of the modern liberal onslaught. While Bork does  sense a glimmer of hope in this approach, he wonders whether such an  approach may merely slow the onslaught that will eventually end in the  disintegration of our society and culture. <br />This book is an absolute  eye-opener to what damage has already been wrought by modern liberalism. If  there is any chance at all of taming and turning back the beast, the first  step is to &quot;know thy enemy.&quot; This book serves that purpose.  Hence, I recommend it to every freedom-loving American. Obviously, most  liberals won't like what Bork has to say, but I think most people calling  themselves liberals today have no idea what some are doing under that  label. Therefore, I recommend this book to liberals as well so that they  can read for themselves what liberal radicals have done and are doing to  undermine American culture and society.	1999-12-23
US	53040192	R18D4E7PH5GT4L	0812925866	651906031	Contract with America	Books	5	15	20	N	Y	A Blueprint for Americas Future	Every political party that wishes to guide America's future should be required to assemble a treatise such as this. The Contract with America is a bold and fresh plan for dealing with the problems that plague us  -over-taxation, over-regulation, poverty, welfare, failing public schools,  violence, budget deficits, and an out-of-control legal system. Many of  these problems have been around for decades, with most attempts to resolve  them rooted in the liberal philosophy of government knows best. Yet, after  forty years of liberal experimentation and spending trillions of dollars,  the only real change is that we now have a horrendously oversized federal  bureaucracy with a price tag that stifles economic growth. The Contract  with America recognizes the failure of the liberal tax-and-spend philosophy  and realizes that it is time to try a new approach. The Contract provides  the essential plan for dealing with these core problems/issues, except the  solutions are rooted in a conservative philosophy where maximum freedom and  individual responsibility are at the core. This book is must reading for  conservatives who wish to look into the mind of perhaps this country's most  brilliant conservative visionary, Newt Gingrich. Liberals should probably  also read this book in order to dispense with the myths and misinformation  that they have accepted wholesale from a media biased against the  conservative ideas contained in The Contract.	1999-12-23
US	53040192	R3VN7ROG2KK1GA	0679737898	248860003	Parliament of Whores: A Lone Humorist Attempts to Explain the Entire U.S. Government	Books	5	17	22	N	N	Hard-Hitting, Politically Incorrect and Totally Accurate!	This is what I call a good use of humor - to kick the tail end of Big Government and all its Liberal fans. O'Rourke does take shots at Conservatives where they demonstrate their hypocrisy over calls for  &quot;smaller government.&quot; But, by and large, this book is a scathing  denouncement of the Liberal Washington Establishment, which exists to  employ and fancy the whims of intellectual &eacute;lites who think they can run  the United States from their bureaucratic central controls better than  individual American citizens can run their own lives. O'Rourke is  refreshingly irreverent and politically incorrect. It reminds me of years  past when a person could speak their mind without worrying over  self-appointed censors crying foul. O'Rourke hears the censors but he just  doesn't care. Good for him! I hope to read more of his Establishment  drubbing and I look forward to scoffing at more manufactured outrage from  the Left.	1999-12-23
US	53040192	R2SXPJVX45654V	0226876802	449021583	Ideas Have Consequences	Books	5	88	91	N	Y	Compelling, Intriguing, Stimulating, and Forceful	I heard quite a lot about this book so I took my time reading it lest I miss even one pearl of wisdom. The book definitely lives up to its reputation. In a nutshell, Weaver takes on the role of doctor - identifying  and prescribing a cure for the ailment that had plagued (and still does)  the United States, culminating in the barbaric conclusion of World War  II.<br />Weaver meticulously describes the ailment, including the chief causes  of the crisis: (1) Replacement of transcendent sentiments with  utilitarianism &amp; pragmatism; (2) Undermining senses of order and  hierarchy (from liberalism/collectivism); (3) Loss of focus and an embrace  of fragmentary obsessions; (4) Exercise of raw ego and self-indulgence; (5)  Dereliction of media responsibility; (6) Emergence of the spoiled-child  phenomena.<br />Despite the rather gloomy prognosis, Weaver does not leave the  reader without hope. In the final three chapters, he proposes corrective  actions that he believes will get America back on track away from the path  of self-destruction: (1) Preserve the sanctity of private property; (2) Use  of meaningful language and rhetoric; (3) Embrace notions of piety and true  justice.<br />After the elapse of fifty years, Weaver's estimation of the  crisis as well as his proposed corrective actions are as relevant and  useful today as when they were first written.<br />I highly recommend this  book to historians of American conservative thought as well as those who  wish to be inspired by one of the best authors that conservatism has been  blessed to have.	1999-12-23
US	53040192	R2VVBHFKC8SKD0	0930073274	478511691	The Roosevelt Myth: 50th Anniversary Edition	Books	5	90	105	N	N	An Absolute Sham Has Been Perpetrated Upon Americans!	Like most Americans, I considered Franklin Delano Roosevelt (FDR) to have been a decent and intelligent leader. If nothing else, I believed him to be a force for shaping American attitudes in a positive way when an attitude  of optimism was needed most - during the Great Depression.<br />I will admit  that I never much cared for his fathering of Big Government and the Nanny  State, but I wasn't particularly offended by the accolades bestowed upon  him by history. But this book has completely changed the basis for that  viewpoint. History has indeed treated FDR well - too well in fact. FDR may  have started out with good intentions but he quickly became corrupt and  drunk with power.<br />He did nothing of substance to pull America out of the  Great Depression (the economics of war did that). Instead, FDR allowed  himself to be shaped by the experiments of the social engineers and  consequently tried to re-create America's economic and political  infrastructure (without any constitutional justification).<br />FDR attacked  the very system he was supposed to be reviving (not replacing) - the  free-market economy. With the direction of Keynesian  &quot;intellectuals,&quot; he tried to replace capitalism with a planned  socialist economy. Fortunately, war and his death did what the electorate  would not - halt the onslaught against American institutions that had  served to promote this country's success and prosperity for 140 years. What  should have been a repair job turned into an attempt to uproot and replace  the entire system!<br />Then there were the foreign policy debacles, not the  least of which was FDR's responsibility in allowing the Pearl Harbor attack  to proceed despite full knowledge of its eminence. Then there is the war  that America won but had nothing to show for it. FDR gave away the  proverbial farm at a cost of many American lives. This man, in the throes  of death (a fact hidden from most Americans), conceded demand after demand  to Stalin in hopes of softening Uncle Joe into accepting democracy.<br />The  post-WWII situation quickly revealed the lies of the war propaganda  machinery. Yes, Hitler was defeated. But thanks to FDR's obsession with  appeasing Stalin, Communist Russia emerged the victor as it captured  sixteen nations, increasing the population under its control from  193,000,000 to 725,584,000! (NOTE: It took forty years and a real American  president to stand up to the Communist menace and to finally give back what  FDR gave away)<br />It is amazing that so much of the information in this  book is not better known. While the New Deal advocates (liberals,  socialists, and communists) deride the 20th century's real American hero,  Ronald Reagan, they forget that their 20th century hero created the Big  Government that thrives on public debt. And FDR did the exact opposite of  Reagan - he appeased Communism and delivered people to the control of  Soviet oppression. Reagan and his policies may have continued in the  tradition of Roosevelt's massive debt-spending but at least Reagan had  something to show for it, namely a re-strengthening of the free-market  economy and liberating people from under Soviet oppression ... and  restoring the European nations that existed before WWII (i.e. before FDR  gave them away at Yalta and elsewhere).<br />Perhaps it could be said that  Reagan finally did what FDR should have done. In any case, FDR should not  be held up as a hero by any stretch of the imagination. In fact, I think  the case can be made that he committed treason in his efforts to undermine,  replace, and sabotage American institutions and American interests.<br />Every American that loves Truth and limited government (as prescribed by  the Founding Fathers in the U.S. Constitution) ought to not only read this  book but spread its message far and wide. It is time to dispense with the  lies and myths surrounding Roosevelt so that the real verdict of history  can be rendered.hopes of softening Uncle Joe into accepting democracy. <br />The  post-WWII situation quickly revealed the lies of the war propaganda  machinery. Yes, Hitler was defeated. But thanks to FDR's obsession with  appeasing Stalin, Communist Russia emerged the victor as it captured  sixteen nations, increasing the population under its control from  193,000,000 to 725,584,000! (NOTE: It took forty years and a real American  president to stand up to the Communist menace and to finally give back what  FDR gave away) <br />It is amazing that so much of the information in this  book is not better known. While the New Deal advocates (liberals,  socialists, and communists) deride the 20th century's real American hero,  Ronald Reagan, they forget that their 20th century hero created the Big  Government that thrives on public debt. And FDR did the exact opposite of  Reagan - he appeased Communism and delivered people to the control of  Soviet oppression. Reagan and his policies may have continued in the  tradition of Roosevelt's massive debt-spending but at least Reagan had  something to show for it, namely a re-strengthening of the free-market  economy and liberating people from under Soviet oppression ... and  restoring the European nations that existed before WWII (i.e. before FDR  gave them away at Yalta and elsewhere). <br />Perhaps it could be said that  Reagan finally did what FDR should have done. In any case, FDR should not  be held up as a hero by any stretch of the imagination. In fact, I think  the case can be made that he committed treason in his efforts to undermine,  replace, and sabotage American institutions and American interests.  <br />Every American that loves Truth and limited government (as prescribed by  the Founding Fathers in the U.S. Constitution) ought to not only read this  book but spread its message far and wide. It is time to dispense with the  lies and myths surrounding Roosevelt so that the real verdict of history  can be rendered.	1999-12-23
US	53040192	R2C8FJ94H3QE2R	0671751506	171253589	The Way Things Ought to Be	Books	5	18	30	N	Y	There's Nothing Quite Like a Dose of Common Sense	Strip away the left-wing pap. Peel off the class warfare rhetoric. Dismiss the nonsense uttered by liberal theoreticians. What are you left with? The Way Things Ought to Be - an uncluttered common sense examination of America  and a prescription for fixing the mistakes created by decades of failed  liberal social experimentation. Rush uses his knowledge and wit to get  right to the heart of the matter and in the process shows that the  sophistication of the liberal media and academia is nothing more than bunk  disguised as informed insight. Rush demonstrates, much to the chagrin of  the liberal elitists, that common ordinary people often make more sense of  their surroundings than those with advanced degrees. Ronald Reagan defied  liberals with his simple-minded, yet accurate, no-nonsense approach to  governing. Like Reagan, Rush is despised by liberals, who are outraged that  a common man such as he can not only out-think them, but can readily  demolish their most cherished beliefs. It's like telling them that their  degrees aren't worth the paper its written on. This book is a must read for  ordinary folks who work for a living. I also encourage the liberal elitists  to read it, if for no other reason than to watch them thrash.	1999-12-23
US	53040192	R1EKW3TY16FE3U	0879738510	298492856	By What Authority?: An Evangelical Discovers Catholic Tradition	Books	5	27	29	N	Y	A Protestant Describes His Journey into the Catholic Faith	As a (very likely ex-) Protestant, I found this book extremely useful because the author describes how and why he accepted the Catholic Faith using terms that are understandable to the Protestant reader. Shea also  knows what Catholic Beliefs and Traditions present problems for Protestants  and carefully takes the reader through his own process of reconciling  himself to such Beliefs and Traditions. The bulk of this book consists of  Shea arguing with himself and he invites the reader to listen in. I  especially recommend this book to the Protestant who thinks he knows  everything there is to know about Catholicism (especially why he doesn't  embrace it). I also recommend the book to the Catholic so that he/she can  see the types of doubts and questions that arise when Protestants  contemplate entry into the Church.	1999-12-22
US	53040192	R3FQM7GROCDRLF	0317659286	263551499	Final Secret of Pearl Harbor	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Did FDR Sacrifice American Lives to Enter WWII?	Rear Admiral Robert A. Theobald makes the case (and a very good one) that Franklin Delano Roosevelt deliberately left Pearl Harbor commanders in the dark with regard to the threat of a Japanese attack in order to rally the American people into entering World War II.<br />I believe this book makes it  abundantly clear that something was amiss in the way the Roosevelt  administration handled the intelligence data that indicated Japan was  preparing to attack the United States.<br />While other localities of  military interest were fully cognizant of the ongoing evidence, the Pacific  Fleet in Hawaii was kept out of the loop. Additionally, Pearl Harbor itself  was given orders that were inconsistent with military intelligence and in  fact suggest that Pearl Harbor was purposely weakened in order to make it  more vulnerable (and hence attractive) to a Japanese attack.<br />The  military officials who were responsible for informing Pearl Harbor of the  unfolding events either were collectively incompetent or were given strict  orders not to propagate pertinent information to Hawaii. And since many of  these commanders reported directly to Commander-in-Chief FDR, Theobald  believes (and I concur) that it was FDR's intention to ensure a Pearl  Harbor slaughter of sufficient magnitude to change public opinion towards  favoring entry into World War II.<br />On the evidence alone, I believe Rear  Admiral Theobald makes a case sufficient to render a guilty verdict on FDR.  But it is even more compelling given the documented corruption of FDR  throughout his years in office. Of course, his most damnable action was the  Yalta Betrayal where he agreed to enslave Eastern Europe to appease Uncle  Joe Stalin.<br />. The sacrificing of American military men and women in  order to effect public opinion is unforgivable.	1999-12-20
US	53040192	R2XF21IJZF9ON7	0815955030	263551499	Final Secret of Pearl Harbor	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Did FDR Sacrifice American Lives to Enter WWII?	Rear Admiral Robert A. Theobald makes the case (and a very good one) that Franklin Delano Roosevelt deliberately left Pearl Harbor commanders in the dark with regard to the threat of a Japanese attack in order to rally the  American people into entering World War II.<br />I believe this book makes it  abundantly clear that something was amiss in the way the Roosevelt  administration handled the intelligence data that indicated Japan was  preparing to attack the United States.<br />While other localities of  military interest were fully cognizant of the ongoing evidence, the Pacific  Fleet in Hawaii was kept out of the loop. Additionally, Pearl Harbor itself  was given orders that were inconsistent with military intelligence and in  fact suggest that Pearl Harbor was purposely weakened in order to make it  more vulnerable (and hence attractive) to a Japanese attack.<br />The  military officials who were responsible for informing Pearl Harbor of the  unfolding events either were collectively incompetent or were given strict  orders not to propagate pertinent information to Hawaii. And since many of  these commanders reported directly to Commander-in-Chief FDR, Theobald  believes (and I concur) that it was FDR's intention to ensure a Pearl  Harbor slaughter of sufficient magnitude to change public opinion towards  favoring entry into World War II.<br />On the evidence alone, I believe Rear  Admiral Theobald makes a case sufficient to render a guilty verdict on FDR.  But it is even more compelling given the documented corruption of FDR  throughout his years in office. Of course, his most damnable action was the  Yalta Betrayal where he agreed to enslave Eastern Europe to appease Uncle  Joe Stalin.<br />It is sad that America has erected a memorial to FDR in  Washington, D.C. The sacrificing of American military men and women in  order to effect public opinion is unforgivable and traitorous. FDR's mythic  legacy should be tossed onto the ash heap of history where every other evil  and false ideology is placed.<br />Book is online @  [...]ry other evil  and false ideology is placed.<br />Book is online @  [...]	1999-12-20
US	53040192	R2LIS8VM6ONUF4	1563524341	67900694	The Commencement Speech You Need to Hear	Books	5	35	42	N	Y	If Only Boortz Could Really Deliver This Speech!	As usual, Boortz is Right on. He is a Libertarian Realist and is correct to recognize that modern post-secondary education institutions graduate Liberal Idealists that are in for a reality shock.<br />Boortz informs the  reader that some of the graduating Liberal Idealists will not abandon their  wishful thinking and will probably become tenured professors in order to  propagate their non-realizable ideals to the next generation of  impressionable young saps. For those that are dumb enough to believe that  their Liberal Ideals are actually attainable, they will go into public  office in order to make the world a more miserable place. And those that  recognize their Liberal Ideals as unattainable nonsense, they will become  Libertarians or Conservatives.<br />This book is indeed a Liberal Anti-Virus.  However, if history is any guide, idealists rarely heed the acquired wisdom  of those that have &quot;been there and done that.&quot; More than likely,  the Liberal Idealist will have to discover for himself that his ideals are  simply impractical and contrary to Human Nature.<br />The State is simply not  the answer to human problems. Single individuals and individuals  voluntarily assembled together for a particular goal is the key to dealing  effectively with problems and simultaneously preserving Freedom.<br />This  book should be mandatory reading for the modern graduate. And I only wish  that Boortz really could deliver this speech. However, since most school  administrators are themselves Leftists and/or spineless, they couldn't  tolerate the cold-hard facts that Boortz would unleash upon his audience.	1999-12-17
US	53040192	R1JME2E0L6WKI0	0891950826	264710900	Architects Of Victory: Six Heroes of the Cold War	Books	5	29	34	N	N	I'm in Awe of the Wisdom and Insight of These Cold Warriors	This book is a must-read for Cold War history buffs. With so much misinformation and biased commentary on the winners and losers of the Cold War, it was essential that such a book as Shattan's be written to set the  record straight.<br />With Western leftist intellectuals still infatuated with  Communism, it was inevitable that the fall of the Berlin Wall and the  collapse of the Soviet Union would be followed by books praising Communist  leaders and ignoring those that contributed to the system's  collapse.<br />This book is a breath of fresh air. It's wonderful to finally  read something that gives the champions of Freedom their due credit for  crushing Communism and tossing it onto the ash heap of history. I don't  expect Liberals, and others prone to blame America, will find much refuge  in this book.<br />But for one looking for a fair and honest assessment of  those that fought publicly and privately for Freedom and Human Dignity, you  will find in this book an accounting of those individuals that challenged  the morality and legitimacy of Communism and dared to oppose it. While many  were content to co-exist with the Evil Empire, the six heroes described in  this book challenged its right to exist and pushed for its demise.<br />In  retrospect, one cannot help but be in awe of the near prophetic insight and  wisdom that these individuals showed in dealing with the Soviet Union. For  instance, Ronald Reagan ignored virtually all public opinion and expert  advice when he put Pershing II missiles in West Germany. And he had few  defenders when he refused to discontinue SDI as part of a disarmament  treaty.<br />Of course, we now know that both of these events were critical  turning points in the Cold War. It's hard to imagine anyone else doing what  Reagan did. He was a man of firm and unshakable convictions and did not  budge no matter what voters were saying or what Sovietologists were telling  him. His wisdom and persistence provided a solid foundation for  implementing policies aimed at rolling back the Evil Empire.<br />As a  Conservative, Reagan understood Human Nature. He understood that Freedom  and Human Dignity were given to each by their Creator. He knew that  Communism was morally illegitimate since it suppressed Human Nature and  denied the existence of the Creator. His constant derision and challenge to  the Soviet Union and its leaders caused a crisis of Faith in the Kremlin.  American leaders up to that point had accommodated and played nice with  Soviet leaders. Reagan did not. Driven by a spiritual insight of the  system's wickedness, he called a spade a spade (much to the chagrin of the  State Department!) and demoralized the Politburo that had until then  believed itself ideologically superior.<br />Of course, Reagan wasn't the only  hero of the Cold War. In fact, Reagan followed the course set out by  Winston Churchill (and Barry Goldwater) many decades before. Churchill,  like Reagan, was incredibly insightful and had uncommon wisdom. In fact, if  Churchill's first utterances of wisdom had been heeded, World War II  probably would never have occurred. Also, if Roosevelt had listened to  Churchill instead of appeasing Uncle Joe Stalin, the Yalta Betrayal that  enslaved Eastern Europe would not have occurred. And if post-WWII leaders  had heeded Churchill's &quot;Iron Curtain&quot; wisdom, Communism and the  Soviet Union could have been held in check and Korea, Vietnam, etc. would  not have happened.<br />But as they say, better late than never. It took a  leader like Reagan to realize Churchill's plan for dealing with the Soviet  Union from a position of military strength and moral superiority. And as  both Churchill and Reagan knew, with such an approach, Communism would  collapse upon itself. They knew that Human Freedom would prevail if the  defenders of Human Freedom rose up to challenge the oppressors of Human  Freedom.<br />I must admit that I was somewhat disappointed that Shattan  included Truman as a hero. After all, Truman was the Vice President in an  administration that betrayed American interests and sacrificed millions of  human lives in order to befriend and appease Stalin after World War II. But  I suppose Truman does deserve credit for finally abandoning the  go-easy-on-Uncle-Joe policy that his predecessor (FDR) had engaged in.  Without the Marshall Plan, the Berlin Airlift, and the Truman Doctrine,  Western Europe may have also found itself behind the Iron Curtain.<br />Before  reading this book, I was unaware of the role Pope John Paul II had in  rolling back Communism in Poland. I now have great respect for His  Holiness. Alexander Solzhenitsyn deserves credit for his courage in  bringing attention to the evils of the Communist system, especially in his  work &quot;The Gulag Archipelago&quot; which described to the West the  barbarity and cruelty that was happening behind the Iron Curtain. His  revelations renewed the moral struggle against the Evil Empire. Konrad  Adenauer, like Reagan, did many things despite the abundance of naysayers.  His firmness and dedication to Freedom contributed greatly to keeping West  Germany from falling under the control of Communism.<br />Naturally, this book  doesn't discuss all of the heroes of the Cold War. For instance, the French  (Francois Mitterrand) and German (Helmut Kohl) leaders during the Reagan  years deserve credit for their support of the Reagan Doctrine which aimed  not to contain Communism, but to roll it back and crush it. Of course,  Reagan and the 1980s would be incomplete without recognizing the role  England's Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher played in crushing the Evil  Empire.<br />Naturally, the Left will never recognize any of the leaders  described in this book as heroes because they crushed the very system that  the Left admires. But as Ronald Reagan has said: &quot;There is no limit to  what you can accomplish if you don't mind who gets the credit.&quot; The  Truth of history will ultimately prevail, notwithstanding modern historic  revisionism that seeks to glorify Communism and attack those who opposed it  and contributed to its demise.an as a hero. After all, Truman was the Vice President in an  administration that betrayed American interests and sacrificed millions of  human lives in order to befriend and appease Stalin after World War II. But  I suppose Truman does deserve credit for finally abandoning the  go-easy-on-Uncle-Joe policy that his predecessor (FDR) had engaged in.  Without the Marshall Plan, the Berlin Airlift, and the Truman Doctrine,  Western Europe may have also found itself behind the Iron Curtain.<br />Before  reading this book, I was unaware of the role Pope John Paul II had in  rolling back Communism in Poland. I now have great respect for His  Holiness. Alexander Solzhenitsyn deserves credit for his courage in  bringing attention to the evils of the Communist system, especially in his  work &quot;The Gulag Archipelago&quot; which described to the West the  barbarity and cruelty that was happening behind the Iron Curtain. His  revelations renewed the moral struggle against the Evil Empire. Konrad  Adenauer, like Reagan, did many things despite the abundance of naysayers.  His firmness and dedication to Freedom contributed greatly to keeping West  Germany from falling under the control of Communism.<br />Naturally, this book  doesn't discuss all of the heroes of the Cold War. For instance, the French  (Francois Mitterrand) and German (Helmut Kohl) leaders during the Reagan  years deserve credit for their support of the Reagan Doctrine which aimed  not to contain Communism, but to roll it back and crush it. Of course,  Reagan and the 1980s would be incomplete without recognizing the role  England's Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher played in crushing the Evil  Empire.<br />Naturally, the Left will never recognize any of the leaders  described in this book as heroes because they crushed the very system that  the Left admires. But as Ronald Reagan has said: &quot;There is no limit to  what you can accomplish if you don't mind who gets the credit.&quot; The  Truth of history willultimately prevail, notwithstanding modern historic  revisionism that seeks to glorify Communism and attack those who opposed it  and contributed to its demise.	1999-12-17
US	53040192	R85D5S74L64C7	0060987197	303485416	Slouching Towards Gomorrah	Books	5	76	91	N	Y	Describes Impact of Traditional Liberalism Turned Radical	Judge Bork does a superb job of describing the various elements of destruction that have arisen from the application of modern liberalism to  American society. He also offers best and worst case scenarios for the  future of the Republic if the current trends continue.<br />Bork makes it  clear that he speaks not of the traditional liberalism exercised by the  Founding Fathers but rather an ideological departure from that tradition  that has hijacked and bastardized the name.<br />The modern form of liberalism  consists of radical egalitarianism, which inherently requires a coercive  State. It also consists of a radical individualism that corrodes  institutions of restraint (i.e. family, religion, etc.) eventually leading  to a free-for-all that will require the strong hand of government to  contain. The centrality and powerfulness of the State in modern liberalism  is its most radical departure from traditional liberalism.<br />Bork does not  deride the successes and accomplishment of liberalism when it still  possessed the goals and intentions compatible with its tradition - e.g.  civil rights for minorities, suffrage for women, etc. However, it quickly  evolved into an entirely different beast in the mid-to-late 1960s and has  never looked back. The fact that there are currently forty professed  Socialists in the U.S. House of Representatives (all Democrat) is testimony  to the extreme left-turn taken by those calling themselves liberal  today.<br />Bork does deride the goals, intentions, and actions of this new  breed of liberal. It is virulently anti-American and anti-Western  Civilization. As it has with the term &quot;liberalism,&quot; the modern  liberal has hijacked worthy causes (e.g. civil rights) and has politicized  them in order to advance their radical agenda. Modern liberalism wishes to  rob America of its unique heritage and to replace it with a revolutionary  concept of human nature and human governance.<br />Bork goes through the  various components of society where modern liberalism has left the mark of  its poison - crime, illegitimacy, welfare, abortion, assisted suicide, sex  (feminism), race (racial-preferences), ethnicity (multi-culturalism),  education (anti-intellectualism, post-modernism), religion, etc. While Bork  is careful not to place the blame entirely on the 1960s radicals, he does  point out that they were the climax of an ideological swing.<br />The 1960s  radicals are now tenured professors and hold other positions of leadership  and influence. They may no longer be assaulting police officers and burning  buildings, but they continue to spread their poison in institutions of  higher learning, government bureaucracies, think-tanks, and on the judicial  bench. The impact of their influence permeates throughout society and is  manifest especially on college campuses where the students of radical  professors carry the torch of anti-Americanism, anti-Europeans,  anti-capitalism, anti-Western Culture, anti-white, anti-male, etc.<br />Bork  makes it clear that continuing down the current path can only spell  disaster for America's future - where inter-racial, inter-gender,  inter-ethnic antagonism reaches a peak of resentment and hostility leading  to the breakdown of civil order.<br />Perhaps this is what modern liberals  want - a revolution to remake America in their own image and dispense with  its entire heritage. But this is clearly not what most Americans want,  which leads to Bork's point that the liberal radicals are a small minority  of &eacute;lites that have an impact totally out of proportion to their  numbers.<br />Bork offers several options for reversing the trend towards  social implosion. However, he quickly reduces the choices to one that  focuses on the re-assertion of institutions of order and virtue - family  and religion. It is only by reviving these institutions that there may be  any hope of taking the momentum out of the modern liberal onslaught. While  Bork does sense a glimmer of hope in this approach, he wonders whether such  an approach may merely slow the onslaught that will eventually end in the  disintegration of our society and culture.<br />This book is an absolute  eye-opener to what damage has already been wrought by modern liberalism. If  there is any chance at all of taming and turning back the beast, the first  step is to &quot;know thy enemy.&quot; This book serves that purpose.  Hence, I recommend it to every freedom-loving American. Obviously, most  liberals won't like what Bork has to say, but I think most people calling  themselves liberals today have no idea what some are doing under that  label. Therefore, I recommend this book to liberals as well so that they  can read for themselves what liberal radicals have done and are doing to  undermine American culture and society.of hope in this approach, he wonders whether such  an approach may merely slow the onslaught that will eventually end in the  disintegration of our society and culture.<br />This book is an absolute  eye-opener to what damage has already been wrought by modern liberalism. If  there is any chance at all of taming and turning back the beast, the first  step is to &quot;know thy enemy.&quot; This book serves that purpose.  Hence, I recommend it to every freedom-loving American. Obviously, most  liberals won't like what Bork has to say, but I think most people calling  themselves liberals today have no idea what some are doing under that  label. Therefore, I recommend this book to liberals as well so that they  can read for themselves what liberal radicals have done and are doing to  undermine American culture and society.	1999-12-05
US	53040192	R1U83M65QVM95U	089870569X	257269664	Born Fundamentalist, Born Again Catholic	Books	5	106	115	N	Y	Explains Why Catholicism is Christ's True Church	I was raised a Presbyterian and became a born-again Christian in my early teens. I never quite felt at home in my newfound fundamentalist religious beliefs. Initially it was scientism and skepticism that kept me from  committing myself 100 percent. However, as I grew older, I found  Catholicism to be a solid rock that complimented my emerging conservative  inclinations. However, I was still hung up on all the reasons why  Catholicism is supposedly false - reasons drilled into my head throughout  my teen years.<br />But David Currie put all of those reasons to rest. I can  now fully appreciate the Catholic faith as Christ's Church. In a world  where change is promoted and glorified for its own sake, it is wondrous and  glorious to belong to God's holy body that seeks to promote and affirm  God's immutable and eternal Truth. I encourage open-minded fundamentalists  and evangelicals to read this book and discover for themselves the order,  beauty, and magnificence of the Catholic Church.	1999-12-03
US	53040192	R3OB50DHBJML7E	1882926196	175322621	Freedom and Virtue: The Conservative/ Libertarian Debate	Books	5	24	29	N	N	Excellent Primer on the Conservative/Libertarian Debate	Most of the material covered in this book was written several decades ago when conservatives were in the process of identifying their philosophy in order to present a positive agenda for America. This is not to say that the  material is outdated or irrelevant - far from it. In fact, anyone wishing  to understand and appreciate the modern social conservative vs. libertarian  conservative debate can do no better than to examine the earliest writings,  when the debate first raged. This book provides a sample of those earliest  writings and provides good bibliographic resources for furthering one's  knowledge of this historical debate. It is a must-read for conservatives  interested in the philosophical discussions of their ideological  predecessors.	1999-11-25
US	53040192	RMZHTVE46B80R	0865971404	370876098	In Defense of Freedom and Related Essays	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Valiant Attempt to Fuse Natural and Libertarian Conservatism	In this book, Frank Meyer attempts to consolidate two threads of conservative tradition (later referred to as fusionism) - that of libertarian conservatism (stressing individual rights and economic  freedom); and that of natural or traditional conservatism (stressing virtue  and order). Meyer makes the case (persuasively I believe) that while many  in the conservative movement tend to stress one tradition over the other,  there is no inherent mutual exclusion between them. In short, there ought  not to be a rift between those that focus on different elements of the  conservative tradition. Essentially, Meyer presents the individual (not  community, not &quot;society&quot;, and not the state) as the atomic unit.  And from that unit radiates out all other constituent beliefs about the  individual - the right to life, liberty, and property - including the  freedom to pursue virtue as well as vice. Yet despite this valiant effort  made by Meyer, the tension between the two traditions of conservatism still  exist to this day. Those wishing to understand that tension in a historical  context would certainly do well by reading this book. In any case, whether  one agrees with Meyer's attempted fusion, In Defense of Freedom is a  wonderful read in conservative expression.	1999-11-13
US	53040192	R1OSSC520075MJ	084768167X	179692330	The Conservative Tradition in America	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Concise Summary of Conservatism in America	This book presents a good summary of the conservative tradition in America. It also contains several pages of bibliographical information roughly categorized by the evolutionary eras of conservative thought. While  it approximately covers the time period discussed in Russell Kirk's  &quot;The Conservative Mind&quot; and George Nash's &quot;The Conservative  Intellectual Movement in America Since 1945,&quot; it obviously does not  contain the detail found in those books. Nevertheless, it does provide the  reader with an overview of American conservatism and concludes by listing  numerous sources for further investigation.	1999-11-08
US	53040192	R888995C1CLR8	188292620X	808987717	The Conservative Intellectual Movement in America	Books	5	37	37	N	N	Excellent Continuation of Kirk's &quot;Conservative Mind&quot; History	I consider this book to be a continuation of the conservative history documented in Russell Kirk's &quot;The Conservative Mind.&quot; Kirk covered from Edmund Burke to T.S. Eliot (i.e. from the American Revolution  and into the New Deal) and Nash has covered from post-World War II to the  mid-1970s (i.e. out of the New Deal; into and out of the Fair Deal, New  Frontier and Great Society and into Stagflation and National Malaise). Nash  has done a superb job of writing a cohesive and seamless history of the  events, literature, people, struggles and ideas that contributed to the  emergence of late 20th century conservative ascendance. The book is  extremely well documented and is a virtual smorgasbord of bibliographic  information for further study and examination. The revised synoptic  epilogue doesn't do justice to the final culmination of conservative  victory and I believe another historian will have to meet the challenge of  finishing the story (or at least bringing it up to date). But it is going  to be difficult for any author to do the stupendous job that Kirk and Nash  have done in covering the conservative movement in America. The book is a  must-read for conservatives and anyone else interested in the ascendancy of  conservatism in America.	1999-11-06
US	53040192	RK0379V4BKF6X	0553265954	881120122	Darkness at Noon	Books	5	4	17	N	Y	A Grim Tale about Communism That Borders on Reality	Soviet Communism was indeed the focus of evil. All collectivist schemes are rooted in idealism and utopian dreams - founded on a faith in human nature that has never existed - i.e. collective man oblivious and apathetic  to his own self-interest. Darkness at Noon portrays one of the adherents to  that faith - a man who gave his heart and soul to the &quot;cause&quot; of  progress. The &quot;cause&quot; returned the favor by imprisoning,  torturing, and executing him for being insufficiently revolutionary. While  this book is a fictional account, it is not hard to imagine this type of  event playing out in reality. Communism has murdered over 125 million  people since Marx inspired the demon ideology. This has included the  starvation of peasants, exiling &quot;apostates,&quot; torturing and  murdering dissenters, and condemning &quot;insufficient  revolutionaries&quot; to Gulags, where they will starve or work unto death.  All of this was done in the name of good intentions - for collective man  and a promised utopia. It is the legacy of an ideology manifestly evil and  hostile to God and man.	1999-11-06
US	53040192	R21FV4KFS98MLT	1563524872	199819751	The Terrible Truth About Liberals	Books	5	5	10	N	Y	Exposing the Bankruptcy of Modern Liberalism (again)	One would think that a book of this nature would be unnecessary decades after liberal public policy has been largely discredited. But it seems that old liberal &quot;solutions&quot; are being revived by a new generation of  societal engineers who refuse to learn from past errors. In this book,  Boortz wants to make sure that those lessons are learned lest we degrade  American values even more by further exposure to hands-on liberal idealism.  Boortz holds no punches and speaks his mind with clarity and persuasion. He  is very hard-hitting and is likely to offend the sensibilities (or  sensitivities?) of those with bleeding hearts. A definite must-read for  Libertarians and Conservatives. But Liberals Beware - you won't like the  reality that Boortz presents.	1999-11-06
US	53040192	R18QL2686N5XF7	0553247778	705074922	One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich	Books	5	6	8	N	Y	A Day Living Under the Oppression of the Evil Empire	Alexander Solzhenitsyn has given the world a glimpse of the evil that is communist oppression and tyranny. While Western Intellectuals (disguised as enlightened progressive liberals) where idolizing the Soviet Union and its  collectivist economy, Solzhenitsyn brought the reality of the system to the  fore. More than anyone else, he made envy of the Evil Empire less  fashionable. This novel is based on Solzhenitsyn own experience with the  Soviet work camps that recognize no human rights and starved or worked  prisoners to death in the cold arctic Gulags of the Soviet Union.  Solzhenitsyn gives the reader intricate details of what a day in the life  of a Gulag would be like and is asked to imagine not only thousands of such  days - but of not knowing the duration of one's imprisonment. This book,  along with Solzhenitsyn's &quot;Gulag Archipelago,&quot; is a monument to  the evils of hands-on collectivist ideology.	1999-11-06
US	53040192	R1BBR94DA93BSU	0915463776	758437477	The Power of Ideas: The Heritage Foundation at 25 Years	Books	5	4	7	N	N	The Pen is Indeed Mightier Than the Sword: Ideas Do Matter	Lee Edwards has cranked out another gem on the history of American conservatism. I submit that one could say that he has taken up where the late Russell Kirk left off. In any case, Edwards is to be commended for  bringing the history and role of The Heritage Foundation to light. And The  Heritage Foundation is to be commended and praised for its significant  contribution towards the propagation of conservative values and ensuring a  conservative trend in public policy. I dearly hope that Edwards' concluding  assessment is accurate, namely that Heritage will continue to play a  substantial role in moving mainstream thought back towards the fundamental  and enduring principles that are the foundation of American culture,  economics, and society. And may God continue to bless Heritage with a  steady flow of brilliant public policy experts willing to devote their  energies towards advancing conservative values. And may God also bless  Heritage with the type of brilliant leadership that it has received from  Dr. Ed Feulner. And may the conservative movement continue to be blessed  with historians willing to document the life and times of our heroic  predecessors.	1999-10-17
US	53040192	RN7MW6KIHGEWM	0691003580	316334502	Classical Economics Reconsidered	Books	3	31	38	N	N	WARNING: Not Intended for Novices in Economics	I have heard a lot of good things about Thomas Sowell. I have no doubt that he is a brilliant man. And I admire his conservative/libertarian principles. But this book was so difficult to understand, I wondered what  use is an abundance of knowledge if one is unable to dispense it to others?  Since I have read other Sowell books, I have concluded that it is the  subject matter and not the author, which contributes to its lack of  readability. If you're an experienced economist, you'll probably enjoy this  book. If you're a novice in economics, don't bother. Instead, I would  recommend Henry Hazlitt's &quot;Economics in One Lesson&quot; to get an  understanding and appreciation for classical economics.	1999-10-17
US	53040192	R2P4MRQ279JHAV	0930073193	656533858	Economics in One Lesson: 50th Anniversary Edition	Books	5	14	17	N	N	The One Economic Book that Every American Should Read	I never thought economics could make any sense to the non-economist. But that was before I read this book. It should be required reading of every student, including the Marxist economic professors who dominate modern  academia. Hazlitt, like many conservative economists, was well ahead of his  time. He had the rare gift of being able to foresee and analyze the  long-term consequences of government intervention. His forecasts and  predictions made decades ago have come to pass.<br />When the popularity of  government interventionism was at its peak, Hazlitt's naysaying must have  sounded reactionary. But history has vindicated his analysis and it is  liberal economists (pro-New Dealers and pro-Great Society) who have been  left with egg on their face. Yet even with the overwhelming success of  Hazlitt's methodology for examining secondary consequences, governments  around the world continue to advocate shortsighted policies that have not  and will not work.<br />In the end, Hazlitt declares that most open-minded  economists have come to the conclusion that his analyses of interventionist  policies are valid and useful. But that problems created by interventionism  has become a problem of politics. New Deal programs and other social  policies have created special interest constituencies that contribute  towards a tremendous inertia that politicians have been unable to resist or  overcome.<br />It may be that the neo-conservatives are right. Entrenched,  bloated unconstitutional government may be here to stay and that the most  one can hope to accomplish is to make existing interventionist policies  more efficient, less costly, and less intrusive; and to prevent any new  interventionist initiatives from being implemented.<br />On the other hand, if  the government beast continues to grow and begins consuming and regulating  too much, it will collapse under its own weight, which is a sure way to  create an instability that would inspire a revolt. Sadly, this may be the  best hope for getting government growth and power under control.best hope for getting government growth and power under control.	1999-10-05
US	53040192	R18A8IY58BVSP4	0895267896	485385986	Witness	Books	5	18	22	N	Y	Good vs. Evil on the Battlefield of Political Ideology	This book was very exciting to read! At some points, I was literally sitting on the edge of my seat! And the unmistakable message of the story is that there was (and is) a very real struggle for the human soul played  out on the political battlefield - between Communism and Freedom,  enslavement and Liberty, godlessness and Faith. The story demonstrates the  depths to which Communism will go to further its goal of conquering the  world and enslaving mankind. And it also demonstrates the ease with which  &quot;enlightened&quot; intellectuals (esp. media and liberals) come to the  aid of the Communist cause; and how quickly they scold and deride the  common man who opposes Communism for being the incarnation of Evil on  Earth. Of course in that respect, not much has changed since the writing of  Witness in 1952. In the 1980s, Ronald Reagan consistently reminded the  liberal establishment (media, universities, etc.) that the &quot;evil  empire&quot; would end up on the &quot;ash heap of history&quot; and how  the &quot;West won't contain Communism. It will transcend Communism. It  will dismiss it as some bizarre chapter in human history whose last pages  are even now being written.&quot; And while Reagan was correct,  &quot;enlightened&quot; intellectuals still try to justify their reasons  for supporting the Communist cause and for opposing the  &quot;simple-minded&quot; and &quot;unenlightened&quot; folk who fought  against it. But history has vindicated Chambers, Reagan, and many others  who had the God-given wisdom to understand the real battle as one between  the forces of Good and the forces of Evil. There may no longer be a Soviet  menace, but you can be sure that it is not the end of politically  manifested Evil. All Patriots and lovers of Freedom need to read this book  to understand the struggle of those who have preceded us so that we may  have the strength, courage, and wisdom to follow in their footsteps if and  when an Evil menace arises to threaten mankind anew.nd anew.	1999-09-27
US	53040192	R2HOOB50G01P9L	1886442088	291020363	Why I Am A Conservative (Broadside Series)	Books	5	48	51	N	N	Effective Use of Humor to Communicate Conservative Message	With respect to the ability for Conservatives to communicate their message, P.J. O'Rourke is ahead of the game. He utilizes humor effectively to transmit the hope and dignity inherent in the Conservative message. And  at the same time, he mocks, belittles, and refutes Liberalism by engaging  it unto reducto ad absurdum. Liberals Beware! O'Rourke possesses a very  powerful weapon of persuasion.<br />O'Rourke makes it clear that Conservatism  has nothing whatsoever to do with progress or any lack thereof.  Conservatism has to do with preserving what is good and right. Conservatism  is opposed to change for the sake of change itself. And Conservatism is  opposed to engaging in change to fancy the ego of someone bent on being  creative at the expense of human lives.<br />And Conservatives are none too  proud to seek advice from the past - &quot;A state without the means of  some change is without the means of its conservation ... People will not  look forward to posterity, who never look backward to their  ancestors.&quot; (Reflections on the Revolution in France [1790], Edmund  Burke)	1999-09-13
US	53040192	RAKYJY8835OLQ	1886442096	108063076	It's a War, Stupid!	Books	5	19	22	N	N	Lock and Load and Get Ready to Rumble	Conservatives are no longer political novices so it's time to start acting like it. Part of &quot;growing up&quot; (as Barry Goldwater said) is getting with the program. That means learning the system and working it to  your advantage. Unless and until Conservatives start seeing the political  struggle the way Liberals do (i.e. a war over culture, spirit, identity,  destiny, etc.), Conservatives will be insufficiently inspired and motivated  to drive back the Leftist demagogues. Collier and Horowitz are Right on  target: It is a real war. Let's start acting like it.	1999-09-05
US	53040192	R3O4RJQ90X67RM	1559722916	740656737	The Quotable Conservative: The Wit, Wisdom, and Insight of Freedom's Most Passionate Advocates	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Don't Waste Your Money. There Are Better.	I was disappointed with the choice of quotes in this book. Conservatism has a rich history of profound and insightful one-liners. Only a few of them made it into this book.	1999-09-05
US	53040192	R1EHJF5UTEATEM	1886442118	258416718	Conservatively Speaking (Broadside Series)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	To Conservatives: Great Ideas Require Great Communicators	The biggest obstacle to spreading the Conservative message of more freedom and less government is the lack of effective communicators. If Conservatives continue to blame media bias, liberal demagoguery, etc., they  will only become more frustrated. The key is to become proficient and  persuasive in communicating the Conservative message. Dr. Luntz's booklet  is a good start for getting Conservatives on that path.	1999-09-05
US	53040192	R38ICYPCKX55XS	188644210X	360941752	Why I'm Not A Liberal (Broadside Series)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	How a Lefty Salvaged His Mind From Atrophy	David Horowitz is one of the few 1960 Lefties who decided to place greater value on truth than on ego. If every Lefty would engage in the sort of introspection and soul-searching that Horowitz had, America would not find  itself in the midst of a war over its soul, culture, identity, and future.  This booklet barely scratches the surface as to why Liberalism is  intellectually and morally bankrupt. But it will, I hope, spark the type of  introspection that will lead more Liberals out of desolation and into the  light.	1999-09-05
US	53040192	R28S8LD0MGLFIN	1886442169	323582123	The art of political war: How Republicans can fight to win	Books	5	20	24	N	N	Republicans Must Learn to Fight and Win	&quot;Grow up Conservatives!&quot; That was the admonition from Barry Goldwater in 1964. And as we enter the 21st century, Conservatives have yet to take heed. The heart and soul of America is not a game. Achieving  congressional majority status is only the means to an end ... of reclaiming  America from the Leftists who have torn down her institutions and her  heritage. Conservatives had better get with the program and it begins by  learning the art of political war -- learning what works and what doesn't.  And then taking those lessons to the street to engage the average citizen.  Then, and only then, can we expect to see America return to her roots as a  groundswell emerges demanding more personal freedom and less government  control.	1999-09-05
US	53040192	R2FPN34GC4462F	9994348337	573322215	What Everyone Should Know About Economics and	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Ought to Be Required Reading of Every High School Student	I can imagine a world where every high school student was required to read this exceptional treatise on Economics and Prosperity -- a world where creativity, ingenuity, and risk-taking were praised and encouraged; and  where appeals to envy, lust, and jealousy were derided and scorned. Today,  there are far too many economic myths in circulation and this book shoots  down each and every one of them. It's easy to read and easy to understand.  The world would be a smarter and better place if each and every person  understood the fundamentals of the free-market.	1999-09-05
US	53040192	R2OJAFVJI9PFOC	0910884218	990922973	The Great Depression:  Will We Repeat It?	Books	3	3	7	N	N	More Black Helicopter Gloom &amp; Doom?	This pamphlet is now dated (written 1993) and many of its predictions of  monetary gloom and doom have simply not materialized. I believe that much  of what Sennholz and others are saying do have some validity. However, in  order to gain credibility and to persuade the average citizen, people like  Sennholz are going to have to stop wrapping it in this Black Helicopter,  End-of-World rhetoric	1999-09-05
US	53040192	R2NCYOLO5KUAND	1886442126	440958438	15 Tips On How To Be a Good Leftist (Broadside Series)	Books	5	12	15	N	N	How to Relive the 1960s in the 21st Century	Who would know better how to be a Leftist than an ex-Leftist? This booklet is very biting and very politically incorrect -- that is to say, very refreshing! Walk with Glazov through the intricacies of the Leftist mind --  including the mental gymnastics, upside-down justice, envy, jealousy, and  lust for power that are the ingredients of the Leftist Faith. If no more  than a few Leftists pop a cork over this scathing treatise, I'll be very  surprised.	1999-09-05
