US	53041499	R28BGSWY9O72OJ	0805069186	842224277	Courting Disaster: The Supreme Court and the Unmaking of American Law	Books	2	11	23	N	N	Interesting but careless - very careless	I didn't know of the author before I read this book but the cover tells me he is a leading trial lawyer, First Amendment expert and legal commentator for NBC and CBS who has appeared before the US Supreme Court. He's a legal liberal who despairs of the right turn the Supreme Court has taken during Chief Justice Rehnquist's watch.  In short he is someone whose views are in tune with my own and whose observations I might be expected to cheer along with. Unfortunately the author's opinionated stance has led him to talk up the threat to the Bill of Rights and leave himself wide open to attack from the Right.<br />The book is a wide ranging review of Supreme Court activity over the last 20 years aimed at rolling back the liberal decisions of the Warren Court and early Burger Court eras. However, Martin Garbus often blends fact with opinion and seamlessly leads the reader from safe to treacherous ground. Some of his views are inconsistent, such as his portrayal of the jurisprudence of Justice David Souter, while others can only be described as hysterical. His paranoia over the influence of the Federalist Society is heartfelt but unsubstantiated.<br />I judge this book to be aimed at a popular audience - there are minimal notes and references and it is written in an entertaining and readily accessible style. His book might have escape informed criticism if it never reached a legal audience but, I'm afraid, Mr Garbus's train ran off the tracks for me by page 55. He refers to a 1987  ruling in Stanford v. Kentucky where he claims the Supreme Court had expanded the grounds for a sentence of death. Before then, opines Mr Garbus, the court had reserved the ultimate punishment for triggermen and not accomplices. However, faced with a gruesome murder in Arizona by a convict whose two sons had helped him escape, the court made a new rule. The juvenile sons, Heath Wilkins (16) and Kevin Stanford (17) could be executed because they were major participants.<br />The alarm bells should have rung for Mr Garbus when he wrote this nonsense. One wonders how a leading trial lawyer failed to notice that apparently a murder committed in Arizona was being tried in Kentucky and a man had two sons, one called Wilkins and the other Stanford. In fact he has conflated the 1987 case of Tison v. Arizona with the 1989 cases of Stanford v. Kentucky and Wilkins v. Missouri. One can only hope that the author is more careful when writing his briefs for the Supreme Court - one can imagine what fun Justice Scalia would have had if he had such an assertion offered up for his inspection.<br />These are substantial criticisms and might well have justified a one star rating. However, he does offer many interesting perspectives and insights into the drift towards authoritarian views and his book is worth reading - albeit with a skepical eye. Arguments offered for popular consumption desrerve the same careful checking as those offered for more critical audiences.	2002-10-10
US	53041499	R1EWZGPKFP8GVL	0766813371	511813144	Legal Research Using WESTLAW	Books	1	32	34	N	N	Trivial content at an outrageous price	This book is a first for me - it's the first book to which I have ever given a one star rating. Believe me, if I could have given it no stars I would have done so.<br />Judy Long's book is, in every sense of the word, a slight work. It is only a modest xi + 114pp including its index and has generous whitespace and includes plenty of screenshots. Neither the editorial reviews on Amazon nor the book's back cover indicate that the book is aimed at paralegals - but I assume that such is its target market. It covers Westlaw legal research, KeyCite and Westlaw via WestMate - all at a pretty basic level.<br />In terms of basic accuracy and general cover I have no problem with this book. However, I do vigorously question the need for its existence. There is nothing in this book that is not covered as clearly and more comprehensively in West's own publications: Winning Research Skills (170pp), Using WestMate (29pp) and Using Westlaw.com (41pp). However, the one overwhelming advantage the West publications enjoy is that they are FREE to those who are registered as Westlaw users. On the other hand, gentle reader, Ms Long demands $38.95 for the privilege of you reading her inferior product.<br />I understand that West's publications are only available to Westlaw users - however, Ms Long's book assumes that you are a user. Indeed any course, whether for paralegals or law students, using this book would need Westlaw access and therefore could provide the West guides I have mentioned.<br />There are some books out there that really do add value to West's own guides to its products - but this book is not one of those. Perhaps the only people who might have need for a book of this kind would be non-legal casual Westlaw users, e.g. politics or history students. However, even they would be disappointed as their interface with the system would probably be through WestDoc - and this is not dealt with in the book.<br />Anyone contemplating buying this book should think long and hard before blowing good money on it.fore blowing good money on it.	2002-02-12
US	53041499	R3PJDDS2OIL36X	0890896038	797563878	Lawyers Crossing Lines: Nine Stories	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Illuminating tales of wrongdoing	I rate this book very highly indeed. Whilst it is clearly targeted at lawyers and law students, James Kelley has not gone down the traditional route of producing a legal ethics/professional responsibility casebook - and his book is all the more likely to be read from cover to cover for that.<br />Kelley notes that while the majority of disciplinary actions are taken against solo practitioners for defalcations and neglect of clients' affairs, these topics do not generally raise difficult ethical issues or lend themselves to law school discussion.  Nevertheless, in a series of case studies he does deal with a couple of issues that regularly dog the reputations of private client law firms. <br />In one he looks at an egregious case of ineffective assistance of counsel. In his comments, Kelley raises a number of telling points about bad representation (one of the defense counsel in this capital murder case was unable to cite a single court decision on criminal law!) and shows how prosecutors and judges connive at bad representation to uphold death penalty verdicts. When the book went to press the 11th Circuit's verdict was still awaited - in Fugate v Head (2001)they upheld the district court's denial of habeas corpus.<br />In another case study Kelley examines the ethical issues surrounding ambulance chasing - in this case involving a very able lawyer whose business practices were clearly felt to be demeaning by his rivals. References to the film 'Eric Brockovich' in the Comments section adds a pleasing topical spin to the case.<br />However, the majority of the case studies involve issues faced by in-house counsel or larger commercial law firms. It is too easy to think that falling foul of the Bar Disciplinary Committee is the privilege of the solo or small law firm. Kelley shows that even nationally renowned law firms can get themsleves in a terrible mess when the partners' eyes are on profits rather than ethics. He instances some breathtaking examples of stupidity/cupidity and shows that even when a matter is drawn to the attention of a large firm's in-house ethics committee, sense does not always prevail. All too often the comittees seem to have applied backward chaining logic working from a desired result, i.e. continuing to represent a highly profitable client, and produced an ex post facto rationalization of unethical conduct. On the contrary the firm should have forward chained from the rules and principles and withdrawn.<br />All the case studies are intrinsically interesting and Kelley does an excellent job of condensing complex facts and highlighting ethical problems. Law professors will find that there is also an excellent teacher's manual available from the publishers that offers considerable added value. All in this is succinct, entertaining and instructive - an uncommon combination of virtues in a book aimed at law schools!	2001-12-10
US	53041499	R37OXY41C5N1QF	0192829785	4897038	Mission to Tashkent	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Brit grit!	As another reviewer remarks, English prose style is not the colonel's strong suit. If ever a book called for the firm hand of a skilled editor, this is such a book. It abounds with inconsequential asides (&quot;I met him years later in Korea&quot;), terse sentences and a wealth of exclamation marks. Nevertheless, this does give the reader an idea of the author's authentic voice and persona - that of an end of empire action man.<br />The exploits of Colonel Bailey show that the kind of military man that we read of in Rider Haggard and John Buchan's novels really did exist. He would not have been out of place joining an Indiana Jones expedition. He really was an Edwardian action man writ large - bold, resourceful, uncomplaining and considerate of those endangered by his presence.<br />He is almost a caricature of the quintessentially British officer muddling through to triumph. He comes across as a talented amateur jack-of-all-trades - no James Bond he! He was  a fair linguist but, as luck would have it, only had a smattering or no knowledge of the languages of the nationals he pretended to be: Serbs, Austrians, Romanians etc.<br />He certainly comes across as fearless. On one occasion he nonchalently reads a copy of The Times that he has &quot;borrowed&quot; from a Bolshevik officer in the room next door who had been sent to hunt for him. English sang froid is much in evidence as he casually mentions the executions of numerous people with whom he had been in close association. This guy had more lives than a dozen cats. <br />The book very much brings alive the chaos and casual brutality of the early days of the Bolshevik revolution in Turkestan. Somehow Bailey slips through it all, constantly striving to get intelligence out to Britain. Miraculously he never seems to want for money - we never do learn where it came from or where he kept it. <br />Bailey was a first class eccentric officer - as evidence of this I offer the fact that, whilst detailing his adventures ina world gone mad, he thinks it sufficiently important and interesting to his readers to catalog the various species of butterfly that he captured and preserved on his travels. He even presents us with a complete list of those taken between the Pamirs, Kashgar and on the road to Russian Turkestan complete with Latin names, and the place, altitude and date they were collected.<br />Mad dogs and Englishmen indeed!	2001-09-04
US	53041499	RU6ZV8KUR9SV7	0812910052	987997785	Confessions of a criminal lawyer	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Deconstructing zealous advocacy	This is a book that it is easy to underestimate. I came to it through following a citation in a law review article. At first I thought it was little more than a run-of-the-mill account of how criminal defense lawyers set about their job. I was a little uncomfortable about the Damascene conversion that Wishman claims followed a confrontation with &quot;Mrs Lewis&quot;, a rape victim that he had bruisingly cross-examined. In my experience lawyers, and I include myself among them, are not given to navel gazing, self-doubts and bouts of introspection.<br />However, by the end of the book Wishman had won me over. The book operates very much on two levels. One is aimed at a broad lay readership and deals with the FAQs that lay persons put to criminal defense lawyers. Wishman deals with these confidently and entertainingly - usually using war stories to illustrate his points. He does a good line in self-deprecation. I particularly liked the tale about the police officer with acute hearing that he uses to illustrate the old advice that you should never ask a question to which you do not know the answer.<br />The second level is one that is really aimed at a professional readership. The subtext of the book is concerned with the ethical dimensions of zealous advocacy. Wishman is all too aware that Donald Schon's &quot;Reflective Practitioner&quot; is more of an aspiration than a reality. He uses the device of his confrontation with Mrs Lewis as a starting point for examining what lawyers, whether for the defense or prosecution, should be doing and how much responsibility they should accept for their behavior in the courtroom. Practitioners who have spent any significant amount of time in the courtroom will recognize many of the dilemmas Wishman discusses - and perhaps will be encouraged to reflect on their role and performance in the way that Schon proposed. <br />All in all, an easy and enlightening read for both laymen and lawyers.	2001-09-03
US	53041499	R2RU49Z3OZWHL3	0156961741	960965463	Whistling Dixie: Dispatches from the South	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Southern wit and wisdom	This book cannot be recommended too highly to anyone with the slightest interest in the South. It is, in every sense, a delight to read and will easily withstand repeated readings.<br />This is the third of John Shelton Reed's books that I have read and its style sits somewhere between that of &quot;1001 Things Everyone Should Know About the South&quot; and &quot;My Tears Spoiled My Aim&quot;. The book comprises a collection of dispatches culled from Reed's contributions to newspapers, journals and magazines between 1979-1990. Most of these are 1,000-1,500 words long.  The book begins with observations on two of his favorite themes, Southern identity and the New South, before moving on to Southern culture, food, politics and religion. Reed is a favorably prejudiced but acute observer of Southern manners, quirks, oddities and behaviour.<br />The dispatches are written to entertain and don't disappoint. I found plenty at which to laugh out loud. However, this is not to say that Reed is not surreptitiously engaged in a secret mission to raise his readers' awareness of the character and virtues of things Southern. There's plenty enough here even to make a Yankee laugh - especially some of his more elliptical humor. I particularly liked his comment on Ted Kennedy: &quot;For my part, I rather like the fellow. He's certainly the closest thing to a good old boy that Massachussetts will ever produce - which isn't to say that he ought to be president, merely that I think he'd make a pretty good drinking buddy as long as somebody else did the driving.&quot;<br />Reed is exceptionally good at capturing the spirit or the essence of something and making it seem familiar to you. I have never visited Bob Jones University but, in just over three pages, Reed made me feel I knew what kind of place it was. He does the same for a number of Southern characters and institutions.<br />Reed is a gifted cultural interpreter who appraches his topics with respect, affection and good humor. It's tempting to say that Reed is a popularizer but that belies his considerable writing talents. Whilst everything is written in an engaging style, Reed makes few concessions to his readership - he delights in his use of language and deploys an extensive vocabularly that would make some of my students reach for their dictionaries.<br />All in all this book is an unqualified delight. Go buy it now - you won't be disappointed.	2001-08-20
US	53041499	R2AL5X2KKEXHUW	0449006719	211606135	The Moral Compass of the American Lawyer: Truth, Justice, Power, and Greed	Books	3	10	12	N	N	More questions than answers	I am afraid that I don't share other reviewers' enthusiasm for this book. Others have noted that it is rather short on solutions to the problems that it outlines. However, it seems to me that this book doesn't know which audience it is aimed at.<br />My instincts tell me that it is aimed at the general public - not least because of the breezy, senasationalist tone it adopts. There's an awful lot of scaremongering of the &quot;Gee - isn't it awful what these lawyers are doing?&quot; variety. Indeed, I don't take issue with the factual accuracy of the behaviors instanced by the authors. However, my gripe is that the authors do not put these acts in proportion - the lay reader will come away from this book without any idea at all as to how common are these practices that the authors catalog.<br />The reputation of the legal profession in the United States is at a pretty low ebb. This book will do nothing to improve public perceptions of it. I do not claim that all is well and the public has nothing to worry about - however, the public does deserve to know just how widespread are the practices that the authors describe. The subtitle for this book might just as well be &quot;lawyers are bad for your wealth&quot; yet the public cannot do without legal services. We can expect those who read this book to view their visit to a lawyer's office with as much enthusiasm as a visit to a dentist or a proctologist. Frankly I think the public deserve to be better informed than this on the issues raised by this book.<br />Lawyers will find little surprising here - other than the impression that the temple of the law is falling about heads and we know nothing, or care nothing, about it. Zitrin and Langford produced a useful casebook on legal ethics - although not as good as Professor Rhode's - but their legal scholarship has taken second place to legal journalism with this book. The book is short but its scope is all encompassing. The inevitable result is a superficial treatment of important issues and a general lack of reflective insight.<br />If lay or professional readers want to know just how thought provoking and readable a good reflection on the &quot;state of the profession&quot; can be, I urge them to read Michael H Trotters's &quot;Profit and the Practice of Law: What's happened to the legal profession?&quot; and compare that with Part Two of this book.	2001-08-13
US	53041499	R3HKPS4ZFHLQ5U	0820318752	816144610	Profit and the Practice of Law: What's Happened to the Legal Profession	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Outstanding reflection on the &quot;state of the profession&quot;	Many commentators have noted a sea change in the standards and practices of the legal profession over the last thirty years. There is, of course, a temptation for us all to hark back to an imagined golden age when we were young. However, there is widespread agreement among commentators on legal ethics that there has been a paradigm shift in the way lawyers see their job. This is usually explained as a metamorphosis of lawyers from legal professionals into legal businessmen.<br />Many authors have commented on this but few are as well placed to do so as Michael Trotter. He has served a working lifetime in an major Atlanta commercial law firm. He offers detailed chapter and verse for the suspicions that many of us intuitively felt but could not pin down. Trotter is unusual in that he has taken time out from the drudgery of racking up billable hours to reflect on what is happening to the legal profession and what that means for the profession and society.<br />For a man who has spent most of his life in the minutiae of clients' affairs, he has remarkable detachment and insight. I don't propose to lay out his thesis in depth but simply say that I found his comments profoundly perceptive and disturbing. Everything that he says about the changes in the practice of law in the United States, we too have seen in Britain. Again, the negative consequences of the transition of law firms from groupings of men of affairs and pillars of the community into legal technicians and businessmen, we have also seen in Britain.<br />Trotter explains how the single-minded pursuit of profit has a tremendous knock on effect. It reaches deep into the ways in which law is practiced and the way the public perceives the profession. The consequences are not just cosmetic but have profound consequences for access to justice, maintenance of professional standards, and the self-esteem of lawyers.<br />This book is strongly commended to all lawyers and is readily accessible to the lay reader.	2001-08-13
US	53041499	R2YZPHQ41KRWJL	0813332931	935966583	Harvest Of Rage: Why Oklahoma City Is Only The Beginning	Books	5	28	32	N	N	Illuminating insights into rural paranoia	Understanding why Timothy McVeigh acted as he did is beyond most people. Similarly, most urban Americans know little of the &quot;Republic of Texas&quot;, the militia movements, the &quot;common-law courts&quot; and sundry other manifestations of rural anger and paranoia. To a European like myself it is even more incomprehensible.<br />I chanced on this book when I was in a bookstore in Champaign, IL and heard the author speaking. I am glad that chance meeting took place as reading this book has given me more understanding of the American rural mind (or at least a portion of it) than anything else that I have read on the subject.<br />Joel Dyer is the editor of the Boulder Weekly and is a sensitive editor well tuned to all his readers' shades of opinion. It is all too easy for people to dismiss these more extreme beliefs as those belonging to wackos, weirdos and lunatics. Dyer has at least treated adherents of these views with respect and done them the courtesy of listening to them and analyzing the underlying causes of their frustration, resentment and seething anger. <br />He presents a fairly convincing picture of why those who are tied to agriculture are so paranoid about government in general and the federal government in particular. He explains patiently and convincingly why there is a feeling of desperation. He shows how for many people desperate times call for desperate measures and how these people have sought to rationalize and justify their actions. Dyer is understanding while not approving of the aims or means employed to achieve the ends. <br />It would be easy to descend into simple mockery and condemnation of extremists. Whilst Dyer concludes that extreme beliefs and actions are wrong headed, his respectful analysis acknowledges the colossal pressures facing these people. He points out the urgent need to do something about their plight. His non-judgmental fact gathering has allowed him access to people whose voices are rarely heard other than throughtheir most strident and extreme mouthpieces.<br />Dyer concludes that America is sitting on a powder keg. Unless governments heed their rising voices, then we can expect the Oklahoma bombing to be only the first of many large scale outrages designed to force people to pay attention to a neglected section of the community.<br />The style of this book, as befits an editor, is journalistic. However, Dyer recognizes the value of his research for those with more scholarly interests and there is a susbstantial section of notes and references at the end to allow those interested to further research the issues.<br />A worthwhile and sobering read.	2001-05-28
US	53041499	R23E2M3L68MWE9	0833026046	48115191	Class Action Dilemmas: Pursuing Public Goals for Private Gain	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Transparent and Balanced Research	This study is likely to remain the last word on class action research for some time to come. The depth and breadth of this study is extraordinary - and so are its revelations.<br />This is by any standard a major piece of work and we are fortunate that the RAND Institute for Civil Justice has the resources to publish it so fully. The substantial appendices contain much of the detail about methodologies, data collection and calculations that usually have to be omitted from law review articles. Readers can judge for themselves the thoroughness of the researchers and the accuracy of calculations supporting many of their assertions and assumptions.<br />At heart of this study is the question whether the policing of the public interst and public safety ought to be a function of the state or of &quot;private attorneys general&quot;. The study is largely non-judgmental - although you may conclude that this research suggests an answer. There is plenty of ammunition for both points of view to be found in this book.<br />It is a treasury of fascinating facts about this kind of litigation. It includes the revelation that some attorneys were remunerated at the rate of $2,000 per hour for their efforts - and to think that we thought only mergers and acquisitions lawyers could aspire to that kind of reward!<br />The only criticism I have to make is that the executive summary that RAND publishes separately is not contained in the book. That is a useful document and its inclusion here would not have added substantially to publication costs but would have enhanced the final product.	2001-04-27
US	53041499	R3K6V9A0MKKX2P	0385416679	745767214	A Southern Belle Primer: Why Princess Margaret Will Never Be a Kappa Kappa Gamma	Books	5	10	15	N	N	A Comedy of Manners	This book, although classified as humor, treads a very fine line drawn somewhere between affectionate mockery and homage to manners.<br />As a Brit I was immediately attracted to the subtitle - &quot;Or Why Princess Margaret Will Never Ne a Kappa Kappa Gamma&quot;. It's good to know that ladies in the Land of the Free recognize bad manners when they see them. They know that HRH may be a princess but she'll never be a lady. I am happy to confirm that Princess Margaret's manners are every bit as bad as those attributed to her in the book - those foolish enough to share a dinner table with her in Britain soon find that self-indulgence is the order of the day. No wonder those Southern belles were mortified!<br />The book has plenty of humorous anecdotes in it and some wonderful accounts of triumphs of snobbery and sang froid. It also offers a range of exquisitely crafted put-downs that Dorothy Parker would have been proud to have coined. Despite the  humorous approach there is quite sufficient information for those unfamiliar with the original to gage their mettle. <br />It's a pity that E F Benson came before this book - had he known the characteristics of the Southern Belle, one of the species would have posed a far more worthy opponent for Lucia than anything she met in Tilling. Mack trucks disguised as powder puffs, indeed!	2001-04-15
US	53041499	RBP5VPIPVZUTK	0890897298	143565307	A Capital Case in America: How Today's Justice System Handles Death Penalty Cases, From Crime Scene to Ultimate Execution of Sentence	Books	3	9	11	N	N	An uncritical look at capital penalty litigation	I really am not sure of the audience at which this book is aimed. The style is rather that of an offering in the &quot;true crime&quot; genre but the price would suggest that it is not for the casual lay reader.<br />The authors cover from start to finish, in a very readable way, the nitty-gritty of six capital cases in Texas . Readers who are unfamiliar with these steps will find this a very easy to follow factual account that has plenty to sustain interest. The authors are well placed to do this as both are former assistant D.A.s and were involved in the six cases. David Crump is now Professor of Law at the University of Houston and George Jacobs has swapped roles and is now a criminal defense attorney.<br />However, this leads me to my main criticism of the book - its generally self-serving tone that the capital penalty system is operated by well trained and properly resourced legal professionals. The authors would have readers believe that in the struggle between competing teams of equals somehow truth is forged in the white heat of the furnace of justice. Would that it were!<br />If all a reader knew about the administration of capital cases was what they had read in this book, they would be sorely misled. I pass no comment on the quality of the opposition that the authors faced when they served on the prosecution teams in these cases. The defense lawyers concerned have nothing to complain about - they may have lost their cases but they get a good write up from the authors as opponents worthy of their mettle. However, the reality of capital penalty justice in Texas, especially once you get away from Houston, Dallas, Austin and San Antonio, is that many defendants will get a lawyer who is little better than useless and a shame to the name of the legal profession.<br />A review of Texas appellate decisions and a recent report by Houston's Texas Defenders Service reveals a pitiful catalog of bad representation by defense attorneys and &quot;robust&quot; interpretation of due process by the Texas courts. In their careers as assistant D.A.s the authors don't seem to have come across any of the wet-behind-the-ears lawyers, the drunken lawyers, the drug-addicted lawyers, the grossly incompetent lawyers, the Alzheimers-afflicted lawyers or the sleeping lawyers that are routinely corraled into representing the poor of Texas. <br />Again, the authors have nothing to say about judges who see no injustice in a case where the defense attorney routinely snoozed during a capital trial - or where a judge can sneer that the constitution guarantees you a lawyer but &quot;not that he will be awake.&quot; Nothing is said about the lack of a public defender system in most of Texas and the opposition of the judges to attempts to remove their powers of patronage to appoint defense counsel - a power that all to often is exercised so as to deny defendants effective representation. <br />The dreadful standard of defense capital representation is not a figment of my imagination. It is documented in hundreds of cases appealed out of the Texas courts - but the authors blithely disregard these.	2001-03-12
US	53041499	RNSBNLH19U403	0812577698	169443831	The Nano Flower (Greg Mandel)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Well conceived but carelessly executed ideas	I am new to Peter Hamilton's writing and The Nano Flower is the first of his novels that I have read. I used to be an avid SF reader in the 60s and 70s but found progressively fewer new writers appealed to me. I guess that I make a rather demanding audience but, I am happy to report, Peter Hamilton may well make the grade with me.<br />Other reviewers make a number of valid points about the book and I don't intend to repeat them save to say that I agree it is let down by a rather limp ending. Hamilton doesn't always play to his strengths or, indeed, recognise a strong character when he creates one. Although I am new to the series I can already see that Hamilton's chief protagonists are often his most wooden creations - I found Greg Mandel and Julia Evans unsatisfying as characters. Perhaps I have done Mr Hamilton a disservice and they were better developed in early books. <br />On the other hand there are a number of characters who fleetingly come to life - even though they are later discarded by the author. Baronsky is sufficiently fleshed out to be intriguing and, until her liberation from the airship, Charlotte Fielder is also very promising.<br />The real pleasure of the book is the imaginative development of technology and predictions of future business and political structures. Hamilton has a good mix of familiar global names diversifying into new, but convincing, business lines and minor brands of today emerging as global players. There are also a number of sly and knowing political and regional developments that will amuse British readers but may go unnoticed by others.<br />All in all I enjoyed this book and look forward to reading other by the author.	2001-03-12
US	53041499	RWI6ZIK6RQLJR	0312127340	724159302	Centered Riding (A Trafalgar Square Farm Book)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Useful old favorite	This book has been in print for a considerable length of time - and for good reason. Sally Swift has a knack of generating useful mental models that help the learner rider grasp the elusive essentials. Riding is full of concepts that are difficult to convey to novices. It's rather like learning to ride a bike or swim - once you can do it you can't see what all the fuss was about.<br />Sally Swift's book should prove a useful adjunct to other instruction - whether had from an instructor or gained from books like those of Cherry Hill. The book, as its name implies, deals with the basics. In essence it aims to help you establish a &quot;deep seat&quot; and a &quot;long leg&quot; - the two basic requirements for more advanced instruction yet things that prove surprisingly difficult for most people to achieve. <br />I would rate this book a &quot;good buy&quot; rather than a &quot;must buy&quot;.	2001-03-12
US	53041499	R2TPAUT9G2KQ6D	0820546046	967710472	Constitutional Theory: Arguments and Perspectives	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Accessible theory	This really is a first class book - and worth every cent of its modest price. Although, as its title suggests, it is likely to appear on the reading lists of consitutional law professors, it also deserves a place on the bookshelf of the student of jurisprudence.<br />The format is basically that of a conventional law school reader - however, this is an unusually good one. The theory side of constitutional law all too often takes second place to the minutiae of case law and development of constitutional doctrine. Law students often query the purpose and relevance of theory. This book is there to remind us that paradigm shifts in the law are more likely to be founded in new theory than in doctrine.<br />The book is divided into four sections: Why Theory?, Sources, Perspectives, and Conclusion. The readings are chosen with exceptional skill and are prefaced by introductions from the editors and have conclusions that invite the reader to reflect on what one has read. Each chapter concludes with a very helpful bibliography to direct further reading on the topic.<br />To my mind the most useful section of the book is the Perspectives section. This deals with liberal constitutional theory, conservative constitutional theory, feminist legal theory, critical race theory, and interpretation theory and postmodernism. The last three perspectives are difficult ones to encapsulate briefly but the editors have succeeded in identifying illuminating readings that are accessible to students. The chapter on critical race theory is particularly commendable.<br />A book such as this is specially useful for students looking for a perspective from which to critique doctrine but who don't know where to start. I wish I had had access to a book like this when I was a law student!	2001-02-22
US	53041499	R1SGZS40CILCR3	0961011610	739310624	Empty Shells : The Story of Petaluma, America's Chicken City (Chicken House Chronicles)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Eggshellent book!	This is a fascinating book and well worth reading - even if, like me, you have no connection with Petaluma or chicken ranching.<br />Thea Lowry has meticulously researched the history of Petaluma and how it came to be the Colossus of egg production in the USA - in its heyday producing 450 million eggs a year. She also catalogs the subsequent decline of the industry and records the vanishing traces of its former prominence.<br />A book such as this could easily have turned into one of those numerous local history books recording the facts and figures of Nowheresville, USA. Ms Lowry has, like her birds, a beady eye and brings alive the history of Petaluma and its industry through dry wit, judicious use of anecdote and magnificent photographs.<br />This book was more than 10 years in the writing. The product of such effort is evident in every aspect of it. The book has some truly amazing photographs - from the cover picture of a collapsing chicken shed to the memorable picture of a rancher standing next to such a shed but dwarfed by what can only be described as a mountain of egg shells outside it.<br />It's a great book - I loved it.	2001-02-08
US	53041499	R2NM2QX5XFL8VQ	0283991658	614475547	Murder at the Farm: Who Killed Carl Bridgewater?	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Blind Justice	This book is written by a seasoned investigative journalist. It concerns a  local murder committed at Wordsley in the West Midlands. The case provoked  national outrage because the victim, a 13 year-old newspaper delivery boy  called Carl Bridgewater, seemed to have stumbled upon a burglary and been  gratuitously killed to silence him. Four men were convicted of his murder  in 1978. Twenty years later, three walked free from the Court of Appeal -  the fourth had died whilst in prison. The author, Paul Foot, had long been  one of their leading champions.<br />Foot tells the story well combining a  wealth of evidence of their innocence with a journalist's readability. The  story as it unfolds is a depressingly familiar one of the police  constructing the case for the prosecution by prematurely concluding  investigations into alternative lines of enquiry. The defendants were all  small-time local criminals and it was all too easy for the police to  believe the worst of them. That is commonplace enough but what followed is  what makes this case a particularly instructive one. Foot shows how the  police and prosecutors, convinced of the righteousness of their cause,  forged confessions and concealed exculpatory evidence to ensure that the  defendants were convicted.<br />As evidence of their innocence mounted over  the years, so public concern grew until by the time of their release there  had been six separate police inquiries, two hearings before the Court of  Appeal and the case had been referred back to the court twice by the Home  Secretary. What was almost as bad as the prosecutorial misconduct was the  dogged determination of the courts to uphold the convictions in the face of  overwhelming evidence to the contrary. We may well ask ourselves - why do  courts behave like this?	2000-09-15
US	53041499	R3QPZPE9TEKFBH	0701129786	8532411	Error of Judgement: The Truth About the Birmingham Bombings	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An Object Lesson in How Not to Convict the Innocent	This book is written by journalist and British Member of Parliment Chris  Mullin and deals with the notorious Birmingham Six case. Mullin was for  long in the forefront of those calling for the case to be reopened and  arguably did more to procure their eventual release than any lawyer  did.<br />This book is a tale of human error, skulduggery, and incompetence on  the part of police, prosecutors, forensic experts and judges at every level  and on such a scale that it almost beggars belief. It shows how the appeal  process all too often can become a sham with the court not being  open-minded to the receipt of new evidence.<br />Mullin mercilessly exposes  how prosecution-minded and malign appellate judges can be when they have a  mind not to do something. Attempts to bring a civil action against West  Midlands Police for assaults upon the men while in custody provoked the  notorious off-the-cuff, but all the more revealing for that, remark by Lord  Denning: &quot;Just consider the course of events if this action is allowed  to proceed to trial. If the six men fail, it will mean that much time and  money will have been expended by many people for no good purpose. If the  six men win, it will mean that the police were guilty of perjury, that they  were guilty of violence and threats, that the confessions were involuntary  and were improperly admitted in evidence and that the convictions were  erroneous. That would mean the Home Secretary would either have to  recommend they be pardoned or he would have to remit the case to the Court  of Appeal. This is such an appalling vista that every sensible person in  the land would say: It cannot be right these actions should go any  further.&quot;<br />Luckily for the Birmingham Six, Lord Denning's  &quot;appalling vista&quot; was eventually realized when all the wrong  doing was eventually accepted as having happened.	2000-09-06
US	53041499	R2UEOBQLOHN84	1565844114	11740787	McLibel: Burger Culture on Trial	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Classic Pyrrhic Victory	McLibel is an account of the longest trial in British legal history -  McDonald's Restaurants v Morris &amp; Steel. The story is in every way a  David and Goliath story - two penniless lay people are pitted against the  Dean of British libel lawyers backed by the limitless coffers of a major  international company. Despite the overwhelming odds against them, both in  terms of legal talent and legal obstacles, the defendants do a creditable  job of holding their own.<br />This book offers an interesting British  counterpoint to Harr's A Civil Action. Both books describe major legal  struggles between the Haves and the Have-nots and in both cases the outcome  represents less than a clear victory for either side. McLibel also offers  an interesting critique of British libel law, the limitations on free  speech in Britain, &quot;ownership&quot; of the law, manipulation of the  legal system by the powerful, and the role of the judge.<br />It also offers  Big Business a salutary lesson - not every apprent pushover is going to  play dead the moment litigation is threatened. When it comes to counting  the most costly legal mistakes ever, this case must rank somewhere near the  top of the list. The case turned into a legal quagmire that McDonalds found  it impossible to extricate itself from. Whatever consolation the company  may have found in the verdict, this was a pyrrhic victory and an undoubted  public relations disaster.	2000-09-06
US	53041499	R1LEQXQGLL6ILP	0385474423	592493195	1001 Things Everyone Should Know About The South	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Near encyclopedic coverage of Southern essentials and trivia	This book is a delight. It's not a treatise for reading straight through  but more a dipper's delight.<br />This book covers nearly everything anybody  could reasonably want to know about The South - and a great deal more. The  authors' treatment is rather eclectic - some major Southern indicia get  fairly cursory treatment whilst some trivia get dwelt upon lovingly. I  loved the treatment of Moon Pie - a delicacy unknown to European  shores.<br />The Reeds have done an excellent job of combining scholarship  with lightness of touch. The format is one of brief entries on topics  (approx 100-500 words) loosely but alphabetically arranged by theme. It  nicely complements John Shelton Reed's &quot;My tears spoiled my aim&quot;  without covering the same ground.<br />Leave a copy in your bathroom - your  guests will thank you!	2000-08-30
US	53041499	R2D5P1QXUUUU3D	0226767531	46480400	Bending the Law: The Story of the Dalkon Shield Bankruptcy	Books	4	5	5	N	N	How judges work the law	The book is concerned with a number of tortious claims for punitive  damages brought against the A H Robins Company for its reckless marketing  of a contraceptive device called the Dalkon Shield. As juries across the  United states begin to award huge punitive damages against the  pharmaceutical company it becomes obvious that the survival of the company  depends upon the outcome of the litigation.<br />At this stage enter the  figure of federal District Judge Robert Merhige - someone who would be  called a strong judge by any standards. Merhige manages the consolidation  of outstanding cases before him in his court in Richmond, Virginia and,  when the A H Robins Company seeks protection behind Chapter 11 bankruptcy,  also manages the bankruptcy.<br />The book is a real eye-opener as to what  happens when a strong judge takes a certain view of a case. Merhige is  determined to achieve a particular outcome and the combined efforts of the  best plaintiffs' tort lawyers in the US are unable to prevent him having  his way. Merhige has a hide like that of a rhinoceros - his skill and  ingenuity enable his controversial actions, which many thought outrageous,  to survive all attempts to box him into a corner or get his decisions  overturned on appeal.<br />His opponents claimed that Merhige should have  declined to hear the case on the grounds that he had a clear conflict of  interest. The president of AH Robins Company was his near neighbour and the  company was the largest employer in Richmond, VA - Merhige's home town. If  the Robins Company went out of business there would have been mass  unemployment in Richmond. Merhige, however, denied all claims of bias and  blandly argued that every action he took was in the interest of the  plaintiffs.<br />The book provides a fascinating look at how the workings of  corporate interests and the legal system combined to override the rights of  victims. It's a book to make a feminist's blood boil!	2000-08-29
US	53041499	R3CTEK0G7LD6VD	1873797222	105683390	If I Should Die	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Dead Man Writing	This book is edited by Jane Officer and contains letters written by Andrew  Lee Jones - the last man to die in Louisiana's electric chair. The book  slowly reveals the character and thoughts of a young inmate waiting to die  but hoping that his appeals will be successful. It is a one-sided  correspondence because Jane Officer's letters to Andrew were lost around  the time of his execution. However, we can easily deduce the nature of what  she had written to Andrew from his comments on her letters.<br />One of the  peculiar effects of the death penalty is to make those scheduled to die  surprisingly articulate. Dr Johnson correctly observed that contemplation  of one's death &quot;composes a man's mind wonderfully&quot;. Despite his  limited intelligence and rudimentary education, Andrew's letters to Jane  set out the hopes and fears of a condemned man in a very direct and moving  way.<br />They make an inlikely pair of correspondents - a widowed English  grade school teacher and a poorly educated black boy from the bayou.  Andrew's naive and dreamy view of England is sharp counterpoint to the  harsh day-to-day reality of life on death row in Angola Prison.<br />As the  end approaches, the reader would have to have a heart of stone not to find  some compassion for Andrew as his hopes alternately are buoyed up only to  be crushed as appeals are rejected and fresh execution dates set. This is a  moving book and well worth reading for its inside view of what it is like  to be warehoused for death.	2000-08-26
US	53041499	R1VUR1VS48C22K	0198504691	392735444	The Further Inventions of Daedalus: A Compendium of Plausible Schemes	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Imagination soaring in scientific blue skies	What a delight it is to find that David Jones has compiled another compendium of the plausible schemes of Daedalus. Anyone with the slightest interest in science will find hours of pleasure randomly dipping into this  collection of Daedalus's musings culled from New Scientist, The Guardian  and Nature over the last 30 years.<br />The breadth of David Jones's learning  is astonishing - no scientific discipline is immune from the attentions of  Daedalus and his team of DREADCO scientists. Reading this book constantly  left me veering between wondering whether Daedalus really was revealing a  glimpse of future technology and hugging myself with glee and shaking with  laughter at some of the possible consequences foretold.<br />Jones reminds us  that Daedalus is not to be mocked unthinkingly - his prediction of the  existence of Buckminsterfullerene is a debt acknowledged by the Nobel  laureates themselves. In this book you can read more about Daedalus's  predictions of carbon nanotubes and their desirable properties.<br />The book  follows a format where, typically, a plausible scheme is sketched out.  Jones then provides us with an extract from Daedalus's notebook that gives  the back-of-a-beermat calculations on which the scheme is based. He  concludes with a Daedalus retrospective comment on the scheme.<br />Daedalus  clearly has a life of his own and his schemes attract serious scientific  critique - indeed, we are told how assessment of the feasibility of  proposed schemes has been built into at least one university course. He is  happy to point out to us when he has fallen into serious error - as, for  example, he did when proposing generation of Gigawatt scale electrical  energy by piezoelectric effects in the earth's crust caused by tidal  distortion.<br />The book holds far too many surprises to mention - indeed, to  do so is to spoil the reader's pleasure. My personal favorite is his  prediction of the potential fire hazard lurking in the depths of the oceanbelow 1500 meters. It's a really great read - and one you will return to  again and again.	2000-07-11
US	53041499	R3G8LGRP8BFRCH	088266316X	77898981	101 Arena Exercises for Horse & Rider (Read & Ride)	Books	5	63	66	N	N	Western meets English	This is a really first class book that any reader should be able to put to good use. There are many books that claim to teach you how to ride better or make your horse go better but few that deliver on their promises. This  is a book that delivers.<br />The real strength of this book lies in its blend  of Western and dressage exercises. My horse and I are most familiar with  dressage movements, so the Western based exercises had some novelty value  for me - and provided a change for my horse. Cherry Hill explains a number  of complicated movements in very simple terms and offers excellent advice  as to how to get results. Her recipes for teaching the collected walk  and  achieving flying changes are the best I have read anywhere. Her  instructions are simple, direct and work.	2000-06-01
US	53041499	R3C9XZHV4AWER0	067479303X	546293197	Science at the Bar: Law, Science, and Technology in America (Twentieth Century Fund Books/Reports/Studies)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Undoing Junk Science	This really excellent book should be required reading for every lawyer who expects to handle expert evidence. Sheila Jasanoff's scholarly and reflective analysis will tell you far more about the law's construction of  science than any of Peter Huber's musings (or, if you will, rantings) on  the subject.<br />Readers will find Jasanoff's critique of the leading cases  of Frye v United States and Daubert v Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, Inc  particularly helpful in understanding the law's constuction of expertise.  Jasanoff does not descend to the dust of the arena as Huber does but that  does not mean that she avoids trenchant criticism. <br />Her views are nicely  understated. For example, she notes that the majority opinion in Daubert  was drafted by Justice Blackmun, &quot;regarded at that time as the court's  leading authority on science&quot;.  She has the good taste not to remark  that Blackmun was a mathematician and that most of his expertise in science  was founded on little more than that he came from a family of physicians.  This background also gave rise to the pseudo-medical privacy analysis  (rather than an equal protection one) employed in Roe v Wade and has been  the cause of many of that case's subsequent woes. Her evaluation of the  worth of Daubert can be seen in her phrase &quot;Daubert's fine disregard  for a philosophically coherent decision rule on admissibility may exemplify  the common law's genius for muddling through...&quot;<br />Readers who have  enjoyed Jonathan Harr's A Civil Action will find much of interest in her  chapter entitled &quot;Toxic Torts and the Politics of Causation&quot;. Her  treatment of genetic patents and of brushes between the law and genetic  engineering is illuminating and topical.<br />In summary, this book is a very  satisfying and readable treatment of a topic that most lawyers and judges  find indigestible. Highly recommended.	2000-05-16
US	53041499	R2QYPCM64Z7NRA	0156000067	384441020	My Tears Spoiled My Aim: and Other Reflections on Southern Culture	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Popular scholarship	A Brit like me needs all the help he can get when it comes to understanding the South - and John Shelton Reed is the man to supply it. Readers may find the review from a reader in Vermont a little misleading - this book is not written for laughs although it is often very amusing. Reed  is no Bill Bryson - but neither is Bryson a John Shelton Reed.<br />The book  is a wonderful collection of short esssays that illuminate and explain  &quot;Southern-ness&quot;. Pinning down Southern characteristics - or  indeed even where &quot;The South&quot; begins and ends - is like trying to  nail Jell-O to a wall. However, that does not prevent Reed making the  attempt with humor and considerable scholarship.<br />Most of the chapters  have previously appeared in journals or are based on such papers. Reed's  tone is light and entertaining even though the underlying purpose is  serious. Perhaps the most overtly scholarly is the opening chapter that  deals with the geographical extent of &quot;The South&quot;. It is well  adorned with plates taken from a very wide range of academic journals  showing the incidence in the contiguous states of various factors suspected  of reflecting Southern-ness. All the usual suspects are here:  self-perception, cotton cultivation, incidence of lynchings, members of  Baptist chruches, and 'Southern Living' readers. However, Reed has other  less familiar indicators of Southern-ness such as where kudzu grows, ratio  of active dentists to population, states mentioned in country-music lyrics,  ratio of homicides to suicides, or chapters of the Kappa Alpha order.<br /> It  makes for fascinating reading and a shifting pattern of where the South is.  Other chapters deal with such disparate issues as the depiction of Southern  women in Playboy magazine, violence in country music, the Southern  diaspora, and life and leisure in the New South. Reed's real achievement is  to disguise his scholarship as an entertaining and informative read.<br />This  is a very different kind of book from Reed's 1001 Things Everyone Should  Know About the South. That was more an eclectic collection of facts, both  familiar and unfamiliar, grouped loosely around broad themes. It was more  for dipping into than reading straight through. The present book is more  limited in its aims and obliquely explores a few specific questions in  greater depth.<br />All in all, this is an immesely enjoyable book that is  full of surprising revelations about the nature of Southern-ness. Some of  the material on which it is based is getting a little dated (the bulk of  sources are from the 1970s and early 1980s) and we can only hope that Reed  is moved to bring out a new edition.	2000-05-02
US	53041499	R3UWBDSYDK1AT6	0812932064	315939699	Dead Run: The Untold Story of Dennis Stockton and America's Only Mass Escape from Death Row	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Humanizing death row inmates	This book is a lightweight but interesting read. It suffers from the authors' inability to decide whether to focus on Dennis Stockton or the great escape. The reality is that the escape has little to do with Stockton  - the authors' understandable fascination with the details of the escape  rather detract from their focus on Stockton.<br />Stockton is an interesting  character and I don't feel that this book really does the merits of his  (unsuccessful) legal appeals proper justice. Stockton's appearance has a  peculiarly haunting quality to it with his deeply sunken shadowed eyes and  lined face. One cannot help but think that his disreputable former  lifestyle substantially contributed to his eventual demise - he was a  person that a clever prosecutor could easily portray in a very bad  light.<br />The authors have privileged access to Stockton's own words and  their account draws on this to give the reader an unusually authentic look  into the strange world of Death Row. I feel that more could have been made  of this as Stockton was a perceptive observer who left a substantial  record.<br />However, the authors are beguiled by the great escape from  Mecklenburg Correctional Center and dwell lovingly on its every detail. I'm  afraid that I am not as impressed by this as the authors obviously were.  There is some lionizing of the escapers, especially the singularly  unattractive Briley brothers. The reality is that the escape was only  possible because of the extraordinary stupidity of the corrections  officers. Yes - the inmates had a fair degre of low cunning, but I would  not elevate that to the degree of intelligence the authors imply they  possessed. <br />What is truly amazing is the regime at Mecklenburg and  Virginia's parsimonious funding of its corrections facilities. The state  spent  millions building Mecklenburg but then proceeded to pay the  corrections officers so badly that they were clearly prey to scams and  wheezes to earn a dishonest dollar to live on. It really does beggar belief  that officers could allow inmates to continue to behave as though they were  out on the streets with ready access to money, drugs, weapons and even  firearms. It is a miracle that none were killed in the course in the escape  - they certainly deserved to pay a heavy price for their  foolishness.<br />However, the behavior of the escapers after they gained  their freedom shows their real level of intelligence. They had no plan  beyond getting out of Mecklenburg and their behavior was such that they  were readily recaptured. Even the Brileys, the alleged master manipulators  and brains behind the escape, behaved in a thoroughly predictable fashion  and did little to keep a low profile.<br />Readers who are familiar with  Supreme Court death penalty cases will meet many familiar names with walk  on parts in this book - Giarratano, Coleman and others. The book is  interesting enough as a general read but adds little to our knowledge of  death row or the administration of justice. The only real eye opener is the  way corrections officers, in their eagerness to earn a buck or have a quiet  life, were so ready to endanger their own lives.	2000-03-30
US	53041499	R34ZWE1X6FZIX2	067495310X	43221345	Wild Cowboys: Urban Marauders & the Forces of Order	Books	3	10	10	N	N	Urban gunplay under the microscope	This is not an easy book to classify. The reviews from NYT and Kirkus are not flattering but I feel those reviewers lost the plot a little. Just calling this book an &quot;unremittingly wooden tale&quot; suggests that it  was intended as entertainment rather than as piece of scholarly  research.<br />Robert Jackall focuses his sociologist's eye on a localized  crime wave amongst Dominicans living in Washington Heights. He begins with  the brutal acts of wanton murder that lie at the center of the book. From  there he casts his net ever wider until the reader slowly grasps the big  picture.<br />To someone such as me, living in Britain, this is a very alien  landscape. The casual acts of extreme violence, the industrial scale drug  dealing, and the regular open gunplay on the streets of the Big Apple read  almost like something from a Hollywood script rejected for lack of  authenticity. The title, Wild Cowboys, is well chosen both for the gang  that adopted the name and for its portrayal of urban mayhem.<br />By the end  of the book the reader has a good grasp of the complex social relationships  on the block, the reasons for all the extravagant machismo, and the  extraordinary difficulty facing police officers investigating such crimes.  Jackall does an excellent job of tracking relationships - even if he does  let his unalloyed admiration for NYPD officers shine through rather often.  But, hey - those guys need all the help they can get after their recent  regular bad press.<br />I did struggle a little in the middle of the book when  I thought I was going to be overwhelmed by names of new characters  constantly joining the tale. However, ends are brought together well at the  conclusion when Jackall traces how a wall of criminal solidarity cracks  wide open to resolve itself in a series of guilty pleas.<br />If the cast list  of War and Peace put you off reading Tolstoy - give this one a miss!	2000-03-27
US	53041499	R1UL6A2OG1IB7O	0700609466	699127979	Leaving the Bench: Supreme Court Justices at the End	Books	5	33	33	N	N	Curiously addictive scholarship	I am a Supreme Court junkie but I confess this is one of the most curious books about the court that I have ever read. If you thought that there was no aspect of the lives of US Supreme Court justices too obscure for CQ's  The Supreme Court Compendium to answer, think again.<br />David Atkinson's  book looks at only one thing - the circumstances in which US Supreme Court  justices come to leave the bench and the details of their deaths. I suspect  that some might consider this book the epitome of the scholarship of trivia  but I would disagree. It has a very narrow focus but a larger and more  important picture emerges from it - the reluctance of justices to leave the  bench and the near impossibility of removing them against their will. By  the time you have read it you may be surprised how many justices remained  on the bench long past their &quot;sell by&quot; dates. It is also  interesting to see the strange devices adopted by the court to work around  the problems of coping with brain damaged, mentally unstable, or senile  tenured colleagues.<br />Atkinson's scholarship is impeccable - no justice is  too obscure or their tenure too distant or too short for him to have  unearthed nothing about them. The book details what is known about the  circumstances in which each justice left the bench whether through death,  resignation or retirement. For completeness Atkinson always gives details  of the circumstances (both physical and medical) in which each justice  died. The level of detail is extraodinary - it even includes details of  members of the court attending their funerals or of justices who refused to  sign their testimonials.<br />My biggest headache was giving this book its  star rating. I first considered a three star rating because in the ranks of  Supreme Court studies this must bring up the rear. However, the book  deserves to be judged in terms of what it set out to achieve: to catalog  the circumsrtances in which justices leave the Supreme Court bench. Its  achievement cannot be faulted in those terms and thus it earns its five  stars.<br />However, in quite different terms it also merits five stars. I  bought this book mainly as a reference source but found myself reading it  straight through. Because coverage is comprehensive and the section on each  justice is short, the whole book is curiously addictive. 'Leaving the  Bench' had to compete with my pleasure reading of John Grisham's novel The  Brethren - and Mr Atkinson won. I'm not suggesting that University Press of  Kansas has a dark horse best seller on its hands but this book really can  be read with interest.	2000-02-17
US	53041499	R2GTQEKSMZLJYY	0393048195	272030569	Proximity to Death	Books	2	6	7	N	N	More a hagiography than an insightful account	The chief virtue of this book is its brevity; its chief vice is that it is not clear what purpose it is intended to serve.<br />Although most readers of these reviews have not found &lt;bookmanphnomhpenh&gt;'s review below to be  helpful, I find myself largely in agreement with his conclusion. Unlike  him, though, I am not bothered that the author has no legal credentials -  journalists are perfectly capable of writing perceptive accounts of capital  cases. <br />The problem with this book is that there is no clear need for it  to be written. Like my fellow reviewer I agree that this account meanders  along following no obvious line of argument. The best I can say in its  defense is that it gives the reader some insight into the dedication of  capital defense lawyers who worked in the former federally funded Death  Penalty Resource Centers but did not throw in the towel when the funding  dried up. Stephen Bright is perhaps the best known of these lawyers but  others stayed the course too like Nick Trenticosta in Louisiana, Jim Marcus  in Texas, and Bryan Stevenson in Alabama.<br />There is no doubt but that  McFeely was dazzled by Steve Bright - but then who would not be? I have  sent three students to Steve Bright's office but have never met the man  other than on the phone. McFeely's book gave me a fuller picture of him and  his colleagues and for that I am grateful. I would certainly recommend this  book to any law student considering an internship at the Southern Center  for Human Rights.<br />When I put down this book my first thought was that my  review would have to say something about McFeely's highly judgmental  comments on the &quot;cast&quot;. I can see why &lt;bookmanphnomhpenh&gt;  wrote, with only a little exaggeration, that &quot;The author spends pages  describing how good looking the lawyers on his side of the issue are!  &quot; Scarcely anyone mentioned escapes comment about their appearance.  The reader might be forgiven for thinking that McFeelyhad walked among  gods...<br />The press reviewers have treated McFeely kindly on this one. I  wouldn't go so far as describe the book as &quot;trivial&quot; but  anecdotal is about the mark. The reader looking for a deeper insight into  capital penalty litigation should look elsewhere, e.g. Pete Earley's  Circumstantial Evidence or John Tucker's May God Have Mercy.	2000-02-16
US	53041499	R5G72YM6E1IIR	0786862947	506506551	A Promise of Justice: The Eighteen-Year Fight to Save Four Innocent Men	Books	3	5	6	N	N	An inspiring tale poorly told	I have mixed feelings about this book. I am always looking out for clear accounts of miscarriages of justice to support one of my courses. Book reviews below suggested that A Promise of Justice might be just the  thing.<br />The factual tale that Protess and Warden tell is a good one. It  contains all the classic indications of a major miscarriage of justice. It  is also a refreshing twist to find that justice is eventually achieved  through the efforts of non-lawyers. On that basis it does make it onto my  recommended reading list for my students - but only just.<br />My gripe with  this book is that the authors do not make the best of their material. More  than one reviewer has mentioned it in the same breath as Jonathan Harr's A  Civil Action. That really is misleading - this book is simply not in the  same league as that. <br />I see two problems with the way the authors tell  their tale. First, they never forget they are journalists - and the book  reads like a piece of journalism rather than an analytical account of a  miscarriage of justice. It feels like something out of a newspaper  supplement. Journalists can write excellent book-length accounts of  miscarriage of justice cases - it is a pity that Protess and Warden did not  copy Pete Earley's style in Circumstantial Evidence or John Tucker's style  in May God Have Mercy. <br />The second problem is that Protess and Warden  were participants in the events. I found their attempt to write an  objective account of what they did, particularly their adoption of the  third person rather than the first person voice, slightly jarred with me. I  also found the frequent &quot;cliff hanger&quot; ends to chapters rather  forced.<br />It is plain from other reviews on this site that this is not a  problem for most readers. I do not wish to detract in any way from the role  the authors played in correcting a grievous wrong done to the  defendants.However, the book leaves me with a feeling that the treatment of  the caseis a rather lightweight one that adheres a little too strongly to  the journalistic human interest approach to a situation. This is reflected  in the book's length - the case is at least as complicated as that of  Johnny McMillian in Circumstantial Evidence or of Roger Coleman in May God  Have Mercy yet it is a much shorter book.<br />I can understand why the  authors wished to tell their own story but its telling - and the full  extent of the miscarriage of justice in this case - would have been better  told by others. Nevertheless, as an expose of empty promises and  prosecutorial misconduct it is an excellent exemplar.	1999-09-22
US	53041499	R2P94J70VOXZPX	0299153401	683155967	Dead Wrong: A Death Row Lawyer Speaks Out Against Capital Punishment	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Burning with rage, incoherent with indignation	Reviews of this book will do little to prepare you for the reality of  reading it. I qualify my star rating because - as its author freely admits  - it is often badly written.<br />Mello does not assert that death row is  populated by innocents - far from it. He is a man who cares about those  sentenced to death and the injustice of their position. This is not the  casual professional care of the hack lawyer but the deeply dyed-in-the-wool  care of a man who believes the law should deliver on its promises. <br />Mello  does not smoulder at the injustice frequently handed out by those paying  lipservice to due process. He does not just burn with rage at it. He is  incandescent with rage - so much so that he veers towards and teeters on  the brink of incoherence at times. His snarling and vitriolic attack on  former Justice Lewis Powell is almost a case of the ad hominem attack  raised to an artform. Many of his former colleagues at Florida's CCR fare  little better than the hapless Powell.<br />This is all the more surprising  because his background as an appellate attorney and law professor would  suggest that a more measured tone and more orderly development of argument  might be expected. His anger does not make for easy reading but the reader  who perseveres will be amply rewarded. <br />Mello has two central themes. The  first asserts that those sentenced to death are routinely denied the kind  of due process envisaged by the spirit of the Bill of Rights. Rather, he  says, the deference of federal courts to States's Rights has led to a  situation where those accused of capital crimes can expect no more than  token observance of procedural due process.<br />His second theme is a  painstaking refutation of the complaint that defense lawyers spin out the  appeals process to buy time for their clients and thus defeat the ends of  justice. He shows how the 10-15 years of appeals which are the norm in  capital cases spring primarily from the system's failure to abideby the  requirements of due process and its overeagerness to placate public  sentiment regardless of the requirements of justice.<br />I suspect that  writing this book was a necessary catharsis for Mello. His involvement in  capital appeals must have made him feel like Brer Rabbit and the Tar Baby -  once you get entangled in the system there seems to be no way of escape.	1998-08-23
US	53041499	RHE37TCQO05H3	0465026249	998645154	Galileo's Revenge: Junk Science in ihe Courtroom	Books	3	20	25	N	N	Suspect scholarship but an amusing jeremiad	Peter Huber is the principal critic of the rise of tort and consequent dilution of contract. His views on judicial nannying were well set out in his book &quot;Liability&quot;. He now sets his sights on perverted or suspect science which he sees as a convenient tool to effect an extension of tort and product liability.<br />The book is an easy - not to say breezy - read. Despite the severe health warning I give them, my students all love this book. Huber's thesis is a simple one - bad science in the court room has helped to make bad law in the precedent book. He claims that there are too many cowboy scientists acting as hired guns and peddling their crank theories, half truths and cynical reservations to anyone who will buy their views. <br />The telling of the tale is quickfire, lay reader stuff rather than law review scholarship. This earned Huber a painstakingly scholarly refutation by Kenneth Cheesebro in his review article &quot;Galileo's Retort&quot;. However, Huber's v! iews draw recent support in commentary by Zakaria Erzinclioglu in the journal Nature (4/30/1998)where a recently retired forensic scientist also claimed there were too many cowboy practitioners whose services can be brought at a price.<br />It's entertaining and thought provoking - but needs to be taken with a pinch of salt.	1998-07-21
US	53041499	R3TPSVAY7BE248	0890895813	615816521	Capital Punishment and the Judicial Process	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Letting injustice speak for itself.	This is an extraordinary book. There can be few legal casebooks that can be recommended to the general reader - but this is one of those books. Randall Coyne - Professor of Law at the University of Oklahoma, practitioner and erstwhile member of the McVeigh defense tean - and Lyn Entzeroth, his wife and a law clerk in the Oklahoma Court of Appeals - are a formidable team. The power of this book comes from its understatement - this is no abolitionist rant or jeremiad, rather the authors allow the unfairness, capriciousness and stony-heartedness of the judicial process in the imposition of capital punishment to speak for itself.<br />The book is a pefect complement to Hugo Adam Bedau's The Death Penalty in America and deserves to be as well known as that text. Where Bedau presents the arguments for and against capital punishment through academic papers, Coyne and Entzeroth cover similar ground but mainly through judicial opinions.<br />This book is de rigeur reading for any law ! ! school course looking at capital punishment but is sufficiently succinct and clear to allow the interesed lay reader or, one can live in hope, legislator to thoroughly inform themselves on all aspects of the topic. <br />It really is a miracle of compression and the authors are strongly to be commended on the scope of their coverage and the neutral tone of their presentation. It has none of the stridency of tone associated with other high profile practitioner authors. It is difficult to imagine how one could read it from cover to cover and remain in favor of capital punishment.	1998-07-15
US	53041499	R3T5IN65YGJ0PR	0125235216	508722131	Linguistic Evidence: Language, Power, and Strategy in the Courtroom (Studies on Law and Social Control)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	How courtroom cases may be lost without regard to merit	<br />This is, by any standards, an astonishing little book. It should be required reading for every lawyer and for every person who is concerned to see *justice* done in the courtroom.<br /> Mack O'Barr is an anthropologist. His unusual perspective on the behavior of lawyers and the perceived credibility of witnesses offers startling insight into jury decision making. His book is both fascinating and deeply depressing by turns. His empirical studies show that those citizens most in need of legal redress come to the courtroom two strikes down. His account offers a frightening new dimension to Marc Galanter's &quot;Why the 'Haves' Come Out Ahead&quot; and emphasises the obstacles faced by ther disadvantaged when they seek to invoke the law in their aid. <br /> The book explains why many of the forensic techniques discovered empirically and regularly deployed by lawyers work. I wish I had known of this book when I was a criminal advocate - it would have allowed me to cross-examine witnesses more effectively. <br /> Although the book is a straight forward account of a piece of academic research, it is readable and engaging. The only negative comment I would make is that there is little discussion of the implications of the research findings - perhaps that might be better left to John Conley who has subsequently collaborated closely with O'Barr. <br /> This book deserves to be much better known than it is.	1998-01-19
US	53041499	R2Q9IF5SA55B30	0716714124	762468583	The Inventions of Daedalus: A Compendium of Plausible Schemes	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Insight, wit and whimsy come to science.	If you have a sense of humor, if you love science and all its endless possibilities, if you have ever been bemused by the minds that devised those improbable patent specifications which proliferated at the close of the last century - then beg, borrow or steal a copy of this book. Or, better still, get Amazon.com to search for one for you. <br /> David Jones's book is a selection of his short pieces that appeared in New Scientist and other publications. No area of science seems too abstruse for him not to know something of its peculiarities or well kept secrets. The delight for readers is Jones's endless ability to make unusual connections between scientific knowledge and worldly problems.   <br />  His speculations purport to be the ideas of a butterfly-minded inventor, Daedalus. Daedalus and his research team at his company, Dreadco, are engaged in a perpetual struggle to solve the pressing problems of mankind.   <br />  Each sketch begins with the statement of a problem which may be trivial or substantial. Daedalus's solution is always an surprising one - typically it will involve an unexpected interdisciplinary insight. The pleasure of the pieces is that the proposed solutions always seem unlikely but are sufficiently plausible for the reader to wonder whether they really would work. Jones rounds off each piece by extending the idea to comically improbable lengths.  <br />  Every piece is thought provoking. Readers are amused and stimulated at the same time. One is always left wondering whether Jones's ideas could work or whether he has fooled us into overlooking some blindingly obvious obstacle.  <br />  In fact, Jones has a remarkable track record of predicting unlikely solutions to common problems. I recall reading that something like 70% of Daedalus's inventions are eventually realised. Last week I read that an insomniac's bed had appeared on the market - it claimed to cancel out sounds that would keep the light sleeper awake. It did this by generating soundsof reverse amplitude thus cancelling out the unwanted sound. Daedalus had proposed anti-sound for just this purpose 20 years ago.  <br />  Reviewing older Daedalus inventions could yield the entrepreneurial reader a good profit - what was not feasible when written may well be possible now.	1997-05-14
