US	53041816	RPUD0UDB4EUXX	031610969X	627556177	Julie and Julia: 365 Days, 524 Recipes, 1 Tiny Apartment Kitchen	Books	5	8	16	N	Y	Very spirited, very smart, very entertaining	At age 29 in 2002, Julie Powell hit a spot many of us know too well.  A talented, educated young woman in a thankless, low-paying secretarial job in Lower Manhattan and a microscopic apartment in Brooklyn, she was teetering on very real depression over the realization that the adult world we all yearn for as adolescents wasn't that peachy keen.  To cut to the quick: to keep the demons at bay, she set out on the journey known as the Julie/Julia Project, in which she challenged herself to make all 564 recipes in Julia Child's MASTERING THE ART OF FRENCH COOKING, Vol. 1, in 365 days, in that doll-sized kitchen, and to keep a blog about it. <br /> <br />It never occurred to her that the blog would be read by anyone, but she soon accrued a following of faithful \\"bleaders\\" and the attention of the national media.  While the book reprises some passages from the blog and bleader responses, it is about much more.  It is a grand, hilarious and often touching tour of her family and her friends, especially as they finally shed adolescence and take on full adulthood in this post 9-11 world, and it is not egocentric or navel-gazing in the least.  She provides a unique and insightful perspective of the phenomenon of Julia Child, her personal accomplishments and their affect on our culture.  Powell is a born performer and all her stories, whether of cooking in the most adverse circumstances (imagine all the drains clogging up at once or the big blackout or the media showing up) or the rest of her life, are engaging.    <br /> <br />Powell takes an artistic risk that I think works:  she intersperses imagined scenes from the early life of Julia and Paul Child, from their meeting to the point early in their marriage when she decides to attend cooking classes in France.  These sketches are not disrespectful; they are a way of communicating with the muse.   <br /> <br />This book did not just make me laugh, it left me thinking a lot about Julia Child, her way of cooking, how Americans cook now, my late mother, why I cook, lots of significant things.  What I love the most about JULIE AND JULIA is that unlike a lot of books where an author dips a toe in offbeat waters in order to write the book, this author grew as a result of her full-plunge and significant experience, landed in a better place than where she began, and the book came last.  Julia came first.  Julie doesn't let us forget that. <br />	2005-09-29
US	53041816	R1P1OEB5X4T80Q	0786885688	574463302	Shopgirl: A Novella	Books	4	4	9	N	N	Intelligent adult comedy	SHOPGIRL is a smart, witty and surprisingly quiet novel about the intersection of two lives in transit.  Mirabelle, the shopgirl of the title, is 28 and is in a place that many educated women have found themselves at that age: a low-paying job that makes no use of their intelligence or talents, a tiny apartment without a view, no economic life, a small social circle, no love life.  Mirabelle is also an artist, which is how she identifies herself and justifies the day job, and she is clinically depressed.  She is a sympathetic person, not pathetic.  She has a casual affair with a 26-year-old adolescent before meeting Ray Porter, who is fifty, divorced, wealthy and not looking for a monogamous relationship.  Each needs and gets something from the other, but probably not what they think they or the other needs; each ends up in a different place from where they started out. <br /> <br />Considering the barebones plot and minimalist styling-there are basically 4 main characters, a handful of walk-ons and not many extras-Martin covers some territory in this 130 page story.  Mirabelle is the most fully realized character, though her would-be nemesis, Lisa, the epitome of LA self-absorption, is a great comic invention.  Martin does women characters impressively.  He also understands clinical depression very well. He is effective at creating the arid, air-conditioned feel of contemporary privileged LA. <br />	2005-09-26
US	53041816	R15AS0OWBLVK62	0876854439	615726674	Ask the Dust	Books	5	13	15	N	N	They Don't Write Them Like This Anymore	In ASK THE DUST, Los Angeles in the late Depression years is not glamorous. The city is always at the mercy of the heat and dust of the desert that grabs its skirts. The people who actually embody the success everyone dreams of are will-o-wisps at the edge of one scene.  The denizens have come to town from elsewhere in search of fortune and fame.  It is a \\"have not\\" world of strangers at the mercy of grim residential hotel landladies.  From the intersection of Bunker Hill and Hill Street, Fante's protagonist Arturo Bandini lets go a cri de coeur that scorches the pages of the book. <br /> <br />Arturo's dream is to find fortune as a writer; he's going to show everyone back home in Colorado.  He's going to show everyone, period. He's on his way, having successfully published a short story that he waves under everyone's nose.  His passion and anger form a positive charge that is locked in an embrace with the equally weighty force of Camilla Lopez, a Mexican barmaid whose life is spiraling downward.  To say more is to spoil the characters' suspenseful tango.  Fante lays out their story in the pulsing beat of Arturo's voice.  He makes high use of symbolism.  Every word is honest, every sentence beautifully crafted. He muscles challenging themes. The title says to ask questions, and by the end you know which ones to ask as you stand with Arturo looking out at the vast desert. <br /> <br />I understand that this is one in a quartet of novels featuring Arturo Bandini.  This volume is highly self-possessed and does not rely on the existence of the others to be understood or appreciated, but I'm sufficiently intrigued to want to read them all. <br />	2005-09-21
US	53041816	R2O2EJ3R5YQ55A	0142437735	319452144	The Cruise of the Snark (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The best story is the one he lived	It has been said that the best story Jack London ever conceived is the one he lived.  You need look no further than THE CRUISE OF THE SNARK to confirm that.  In this book, all of London's passions come together: action, experience, sailing, foreign travel, writing and reading.  It is a \\"real adventure\\" tale, a travelogue and above all a well-crafted book full of London's personal voice and vibrant outlook on life.  One may say it is also full of his ego, but he earns the self-satisfaction by putting action and hard work behind his beliefs and words.  He is fearless.  He is the first to get the irony in a situation and the first to laugh, especially at himself.  <br /> <br />In 1908, London and six others, including his wife Charmian, sailed out of the San Francisco Bay into the open waters of the Pacific on what was to be a lengthy circumnavigation of the world.  They were leaving over a year later than originally planned due to hold-ups in the construction of London's \\"perfect\\" boat, \\"The Snark,\\" which ate $30,000 dollars before they left harbor.   It isn't long before leaks, sea-sickness and other banana peels come their way, and it takes 27 days to make Hawaii.  In due course, London learns to surf, they visit the top of a volcano, hang out at a leper colony, and then head further south to the land of Melville's \\"Typee\\" and the scary Solomon Islands.  The various captains hired for the trip all seem to lack the navigation gene, so London teaches himself and gets it down to a science.  London, first by necessity and then overtaken by the intoxication of success, becomes a self-taught dentist, and thus his crew's savior and worst nightmare.  He and the crew suffer a nasty list of maladies, as well.  It is a testimony of the man's indefatigable spirit, that even when his own health puts an end to the \\"round the world\\" scheme, that he never characterizes the voyage and anything that did not go as planned as a crushing failure or disappointment.  He just heads straight to Plan B. <br /> <br />London's voice is wholly engaging, his profiles of crewmates and people encountered are delightful.  One only wishes that some of his perceptions of other cultures were more enlightened, though they were liberal for their time.  The Penguin Classics critical edition is an excellent balance of original text, a non-spoiling critical introduction, and a selection of 4 other short pieces, including accounts of the voyage by crewmate Martin Johnson and wife Charmian, and two unrelated  maritime essays by London that enrich the overall experience of the book. <br />	2005-09-12
US	53041816	R12KJZUS3GUTE7	0316010790	555987354	Dress Your Family in Corduroy and Denim	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Winner That Grows On You	I came to this book never having read any previous Sedaris works, only having infrequently caught him on NPR and more frequently, in interviews.  As I started it, I thought, hmmm, well-observed, another quirky baby boomer suburban childhood explored, lots of wry humor . . . . and then the aggregation of sketches began to sink in.  In the end, DRESS YOUR FAMILY IN CORDUROY AND DENIM has the rich texture of a novel, with an identifiable exposition, climax and conclusion.  It exercises metaphor and technique, draws the major \\"characters\\" and the \\"extras\\" who stray into his lens exquisitely.  It works all the conventions of storytelling to deliver an original vision on the themes of family interrelationships, communication and what we mean when we talk about being \\"normal.\\"  It delivers some laugh-out loud passages, though irony mostly rules the day.  Often what he leaves unsaid is evocative as well. <br /> <br />The pieces collected in DRESS YOUR FAMILY were published in various media in the past, though they flow as if continuously written just for this book.  Sedaris may be writing from France these days, as a gay man who grew up in a large and not always conventional family, but he says volumes about American family dynamics and middle-class mores.   <br />	2005-09-01
US	53041816	R14UCN0K3FSFIF	068480154X	655275342	Tender Is the Night	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Expatriots deconstructed	Fitzgerald never grows old, whether I'm revisiting THE GREAT GATSBY or reading another of his novels for the first time, in this instance, TENDER IS THE NIGHT.  His ability to deliver on big themes and his use of the elements of imaginative writing--symbolism, character, conflict, setting, dialogue, narrative and plot--improves every time I read him. <br /> <br />NIGHT is a rangy novel depicting a time, place and its people: the expatriot (\\"Europeanized\\") Americans who habituated Europe after World War I, trying to come to grips with the turbulent speed of modernity and an escalating sense that life has lost meaning.  Fitzgerald's community clings to exclusive French beaches and cliff-top villas, spinning around its own royalty, Dick and Nicole Divers, whose parties are to die for.  This crowd lives for the night when everything is fun and the liquor flows.  The bright light of day and what it can reveal is not always so kind.  Fitzgerald charges the novel with melodrama and tragedy, but he also gives free reign to the wry wit, pranks and mores of this desperate crowd.  Someone else might abridge some of that, but it would be a loss.  It is an important statement on the early 20th century American experience and throws the role of the individual into remarkable relief. <br /> <br />Charles Scribner III, descendant of the book's original publisher, offers a brief but engaging historical introduction that speaks of Fitzgerald's long commitment to producing this work as Zelda fell deeper into mental illness, his own conviction that it was his best and how his peers reacted to it.  It's a non-spoiler of an introduction and should not be overlooked. <br />	2005-08-25
US	53041816	R343LUCOJA99U6	1564782379	336242021	Reckless Eyeballing	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Probes sore spots with comic vision	RECKLESS EYEBALLING is an original, highly comic dispatch from the politicized culture wars of the 1980's that makes some very serious charges that should remain open for discussion  nearly 20 years later.  As the other reviewer says, why aren't more people reading this? <br /> <br />The novel's title is the title of the protagonist's play.  The narrator is Ian Ball, a playwright whose perspective as an African American male has been set upon by feminists.  With the very real image of Ronald Reagan at the Bitburg Cemetery in West Germany honoring Nazi soldiers killed in World War II as \\"victims\\" on the news, Ball's world of New York Theater is in the hands of WASP producer Becky French, a strident feminist who insists all women are victims, including Eva Braun.  Ball needs French in order to get his new play produced, the theme of which echoes the Jim Crow law that left America with the scar of the lynching of 14-year-old Emmett Till after he was accused of whistling at a white woman.  French replaces Ball's friend and director, Jim Minsk, a Jew who disappears under mysterious circumstances, with Tremonisha Smarts, an African American feminist who had been among Ball's past accusers.  Meanwhile, a serial assaulter, the \\"Flower Phantom\\" is terrorizing New York, a disguised man who captures feminists and shaves their heads after the fashion of the French Resistance who shaved the heads of female Nazi sympathizers in World War II. He bequeaths a chrysanthemum to each victim, including Tremonisha. <br /> <br />Who is that masked man? What will happen to Ball's play? What really happened to Jim Minsk?  What's going on with that bigoted cop just days from retirement who is investigating the \\"Flower Phantom\\"?  Will Tremonisha and Ball ever see eye to eye? Reed keeps the plots, characters and suspense flying, richly offered up in solid writing enriched with the symbolism of sight. This is at once a very readable and often funny book that also probes some very sore spots. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-08-18
US	53041816	R655LC44VC2TJ	0393051285	743421485	Miss Leavitt's Stars: The Untold Story of the Woman Who Discovered How to Measure the Universe (Great Discoveries)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A round trip ticket to the frontier of modern astronomy	In this age of specialization, it is downright easy to walk away with a liberal arts degree and still be ignorant of many of the arts and sciences.  For me, a lit major, a book like MISS LEAVITT'S STARS is the perfect ticket to the ongoing task of plugging the immense gaps in my science education.  This slim volume holds accessible explanations of formulae and theory, the history of modern astronomy and animated profiles of the key figures all wrapped up with a lucid, friendly voice.   <br /> <br />The author, George Johnson, was set to write about the key factor that moved the science of astronomy into the business of measuring the universe when the obscure figure of the person who identified the measurement instrument beckoned, and so he trained his gaze on her.  Henrietta Swan Leavitt, the picture of an educated, late Victorian spinster, was one of the chorus of mostly female, lowly paid \\"computers,\\" those who performed the tedious work of analyzing the rising stack of astrological photographs produced by cameras attached to telescopes.  It was she who identified the Cepheid stars, whose luminosity properties yielded a marker that propelled astronomy into the search for the size, age and origins of the universe.  Johnson had few extant records of the quiet Miss Leavitt to go on, but he succeeds in fleshing her out amidst the plus-sized egos of Edwin Hubble and Harlow Shapley who took her work and ran in two different directions with it.  As Johnson chuckles, we know whose ideas prevailed by the name given the headlining telescope circulating the earth these days, though in the early 20th century, Shapley held sway at Harvard, where Leavitt labored. Leavitt, who died of cancer in 1921, also  prevails, though gently, often in footnotes but also honored with a topographical feature of the moon named for her. <br /> <br />I very much enjoyed this round trip back to the scientific frontier.  This is the first volume I've read in Norton's Great Discoveries series, andon the basis of this book, I'll gladly go for more. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-08-15
US	53041816	R112EMNQWFY2MP	156478181X	618405348	At Swim-Two-Birds (Irish Literature)	Books	5	23	28	N	Y	Buckle Your Seatbelt	Wanted:  A reader for Flann O'Brien's AT SWIM-TWO-BIRDS.<br />1) Requisites: Forgiveness of the not-very-linear, willingness to suspend disbelief and attachment to conventions, flexibility to take hairpin turns and seeming leaps of logic without a moment's notice, and tolerance of sloth, drink and the occasional effluvia.<br />2) Experience and education: familiarity with James Joyce, Samuel Beckett and Irish literary culture of the early 20th century helpful.  Competitive emphasis awarded applicants with a working definition of \\"metafiction.\\"<br />3) Job description: Sort out nested narratives of authors and their characters; identify author's concepts regarding the creative process; laugh at author's lampoons, ironies and jokes; develop a high appreciation of author's conceptuality and use of voice; locate surprising floes of prose through which echo all kinds of intelligence; don't worry about getting absolutely every reference; appreciate William Gass's critical introduction to this edition, which adds to the fun and vision, and spoils nothing.<br />4) Compensation and benefits: Never boring, earns reader the metafictional and modern Irish literature badge of experience without much bloodletting.<br />5) Work location:  Ideally read in proximity to others with whom insights and jokes can be shared but post-college isolation doable; bed not recommended unless weird dreams desired; does not go overly well with sand, gooey sunscreen and the sounds of the top 40 blasting from the radio three beach blankets away. The local pub would quite suit the content.	2005-08-08
US	53041816	R52TOVP0BXFAY	0679752862	398249945	Where I Was From	Books	5	47	54	N	N	Where we came from	WHERE I WAS FROM is Joan Didion's meditation on her native state of California. Though much of the huge population of the state was not born there, Didion, like this reviewer, is the descendant of 19th century pioneers who established ranches that are long gone.  Didion went looking for what makes California itself, what it imparts to its natives.  Her findings, rendered in that elegant stingray voice like ice water splashed on the face on a scorching day in the Central Valley, may surprise a lot of readers.   <br /> <br />No one could possibly achieve a personal portrait of California and include every iconic landmark or quirk.  The film industry does not figure into this, LA's waterworks is not here.  This is not Steinbeck's California, or Kerouac's or Dashiell Hammett's.  It is, however, the landscape of Frank Norris's THE OCTOPUS, Jack London's VALLEY OF THE MOON, Faulkner's short story, \\"Golden Land,\\" and Henry George's prescient essay, \\"What the Railroad Will Bring Us,\\" to which Didion brings a close reading.  The settling of California was made possible by the government and the sense of entitlement still resounds, as does the seemingly contradictory rugged pioneer individualism that claims the right to do as one pleases without strings attached.  There is a pioneer code, \\"kill the rattlesnake,\\" meaning to act in the interest of the greater good so others are not hurt, but there is also the overwhelming theme of development, the meaning of which Didion finds in the act of selling the family cemetery, along with the ranch.  The lesson about development is also played out through the history of the Lakewood community tangent to LA, one that did not exist until the 1950s when it was created on former ranch land and became a whole town with a resident employer, the defense contractor McDonell Douglas, with whose fortunes, given and taken away by the federal government, it rose and emptied, spewing forth a notoriously violent, purposeless youth culture. <br /> <br/>This book resonates deeply with me--as a child, I watched my animal-loving mother weep as she killed the rattlesnake, and the ranch and the winery were gone by the time I was born--but I have to think that this beautifully crafted book should be of value to all Americans because, as John Donne said, none of us is an island and what happens to one part can bear significance for the rest. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-07-28
US	53041816	RG90BUBUVK6ZR	1400032717	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time	Books	5	3	4	N	N	An Unforgettable Protagonist	Mark Haddon's achievement in THE CURIOUS INCIDENT OF THE DOG IN THE NIGHT-TIME is the embodiment of what we learned back in school, that a novel's mission should be to entertain and to instruct.  In this enthralling novel, told from first-person point of view of a 15-year-old autistic boy from a working-class neighborhood in England, Haddon lays out the world of that disorder, from how the mind works to its effect on the community.   <br /> <br />CURIOUS INCIDENT begins as a detective novel.  The very logical, mathematically gifted and unironic mind of Christopher Boone wants to find out who killed his neighbor's poodle with a pitch fork.  Christopher has a code of rules by which he lives and he holds others, his way of dealing with the outside world from which he is otherwise disassociated.  Employing the methodology of his hero, Sherlock Holmes, he carefully negotiates his fragile rules of communication and begins canvassing the neighborhood.  His father, a hard-working single parent, wants him to stop.  Christopher can't withhold his curiosity.  Before long, his adventure moves from detecting into a suspenseful coming of age story. <br /> <br />In a book featuring a first-person narrative of an autistic person who is unable to understand the emotions and behavior of the people around him, Haddon spectacularly conveys the father's love and heartbreak, and the outside world's response to Christopher.  The book is by turns comic and touching.  I highly recommend it for the beauty of the narrative, the original way in which it is articulated on the page and a greater understanding of autism.	2005-07-26
US	53041816	R3MQ91WQAWONRC	0375422714	629465826	In the Company of Cheerful Ladies (No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency, Book 6)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Engaging as ever	The sixth installment in the First Ladies' Detective Agency series, IN THE COMPANY OF CHEERFUL LADIES, is as spirited as the first.  Though no subsequent volume could possibly reprise the surprise of the narrative voice and originality of material that the first sprung on readers, this book and its predecessor, THE FULL CUPBOARD OF LIFE, generate a lot of energy and humane charm.   <br /> <br />The series is character and culture-driven, with events and suspense swirling about in a pattern quite unlike the typical mystery or detective genre plot.  What would be to the rest of us the real matter to detect is often marched to the background, while others surprisingly take the foreground. There are two stars in the series, the African nation Botswana, a country that has achieved that difficult thing, a stable democratic economy, and Mma Precious Ramotswe, owner of the First Ladies' Detective Agency in Gabarone, Botswana.  A lady of traditional beauty (great size) and ethics, she is recently married to the equally traditional Mr. J.L.B. Matekoni.  Together they have taken in two foster children and in their respective businesses have found room for a growing cast of support characters.  Their achievement of growth and balance, amid encounters with human failings and the ambiguities of contemporary society, mirrors that of their country.  The author keeps the focus so fixed on the world he portrays, you don't even notice he, a Scotsman, is there.  His narrative is lyrical, knowing and often witty. <br /> <br />In this particular episode, there are intruders, thefts and criminals to find.  Mma Ramotswe, whose success seems to have been rocketing up and outward, has to face a bad patch in her past, while her assistant detective, Mma Grace Makutsi gets a lesson in love.  The theme of forgiveness gets a very thoughtful airing in this book.	2005-07-23
US	53041816	RJRX8F5PMMEYS	1573223026	929884077	A Long Way Down	Books	5	0	2	N	N	One of Hornby's best to date, or actually the best	Although Nick Hornby is forever remembered for what has been stamped \\"lad lit\\"--books about male obsessions like football (soccer) and rock music and maturation--his latest output by far has been about broader themes.  Without sacrificing wit, slapstick comedy, pulsing rhythm, intimate voice or ability to nail the piercingly significant moments in life, he's moved out into the world.  His last novel, HOW TO BE GOOD, was written from a woman's perspective and explored morality, though with his usual comic voice intact.  His new fiction, A LONG WAY DOWN, takes on suicide and is written in four very different voices.  It is one of Hornby's best to date, if not the best. <br /> <br />Essentially, the four characters are Martin, an urbane television celebrity who brought on his own fall from grace after coupling with a 15-year-old; JJ, an American in a rock band, who has lost his band and his girl; Maureen, a woman who has been paying for her single, youthful sexual encounter by raising its product, a now adult son who has never exited his severely disabled, vegetative state; and the teenager from hell, Jess.  The heretofore strangers have all gone to throw themselves off a London rooftop on New Year's Eve and end up bonding uneasily because of it, trying to make sense of their lives, why they had gone up there and how they might go on living afterward.  A lot happens as they try and muddle on, but it would ruin all the surprises to speak further of them.  <br /> <br />The book has a fast current, never bogs down.  There are a lot of jokes hidden like Easter Eggs.  A character from HOW TO BE GOOD is reprised very briefly and ironically, and Hornby channels a lot of his literary allusions through JJ, the high school drop-out from America, named for a distinguished British historian.  What I find ultimately attractive about Hornby's novel is his searing sense of decency, of the fragile wall between being and nothingness, and the keen awareness of what should and doesn't always constitute the differentiated states of childhood, adolescence and maturity. <br />	2005-07-12
US	53041816	R2HWEF284G30AK	0071422889	228895690	The Saber-Tooth Curriculum, Classic Edition	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Still relevant, still unique nearly 70 years later	I doubt THE SABER-TOOTH CURRICULUM would be produced today, a sad commentary on our times.  No contemporary publisher would distribute the first edition to educators for the sake of discourse and no doubt a little shrewd marketing like McGraw did in the late 1930s, and no pointed but whimsical and very funny satire on pedagogical history in the age of theory rendered in opaque language would get very far.  What is a better commentary on our times is that this wonderful book is still in print and still venerated despite the trouble it would have in getting born now. <br /> <br />A thumbnail sketch: a man, Raymond Wayne, the putative author (actually, the real author is Harold Raymond Wayne Benjamin, who died in 1969 and is still admired as an educational thinker), is in a bar in Tijuana, knocking back tequila daisies when he runs into his old professor, J. Abner Peddiwell, Ph.d., who, with considerable help from the daisies, agrees to embark on a seminar illustrating the history and issues of pedagogy.  His witty example is told through the story of the cave man who first decided that children needed to learn the essentials of fish-grabbing, little horse clubbing and tiger-scaring.  Out of this grows a complex system that includes teacher accreditation, higher education, Ph.D. programs, progressive theory, conservative theory, teacher unions, the rise of phys ed. and the question that never goes away, do we teach children how to think or what to think? <br /> <br />It is enlightening to read how fresh the issues are nearly 70 years later.  One only wonders what hay Benjamin would make with the likes of today's educational soup of politics, law, economics and the headlining controversies that plague the profession. <br /> <br />	2005-07-05
US	53041816	R1ANYPIV7N5TE7	1570614350	861416617	More Book Lust: Recommended Reading for Every Mood, Moment, and Reason	Books	5	41	46	N	N	Who Says Nobody Reads Anymore?	So what's the big deal about a list of books? Anyone can jot down what they've read.  The big deal is this particular list maker, who flies through her lists organized to themes and moods with an infectious enthusiasm and flashes of wit (I would repeat her hilarious recommendation for changing the categorical name of \\"lad lit,\\" but that would ruin the joke).  <br /> <br />Nancy Pearl is the Ur-general reader and the Ur-librarian who has read it all.  This is a sequel to the break-out hit, BOOK LUST, offering another 1,000 recommended titles.  Lest you think Pearl is throwing everything she ever read onto the heap, she says that she omits the books that did not measure up.  Given her broad spectrum approach, everyone will find at least one item worth reading but also something they know they disliked, so it's best to follow up her suggestions with some homework, like trolling Amazon reviews. Of the suggestions in MORE BOOK LUST, I'd read 124 and disliked perhaps 10 of those.  I found about 40 new ideas to pursue, but after flipping through Amazon postings cut that list in half.  Pearl recommends the \\"rule of 50\\": give a book 50 pages before giving up on it, unless you are over 50, in which case, subtract a page for every year over 50 so you don't waste any more of the reading time you have left. <br />	2005-07-01
US	53041816	R1MJY6YWEITOJJ	0375725024	427984483	Cakes and Ale	Books	5	38	40	N	Y	Truth, Art and Artifice	In the late 1920's, an aged literary lion, a venerated late Victorian novelist, Edward Driffield, has died and his widow thinks his life should be written down.  She appeals to a younger novelist, Alroy Kear, who had attached himself to their society.  In turn, he appeals to a friend who he knows must have known the legend earlier in life.  The friend he turns to is the first-person narrator of CAKES AND ALE, Ashenden, also a novelist, who gradually reveals to the reader the truth of the deceased's early life.  How much he will reveal to the other characters is another thing, and even if he did, the controlling widow, the man's second and much younger wife, would most likely excise what does not fit the public image she had worked hard to preserve.  When it comes to pinning down a protagonist, however, the novel turns on the character of Rosie, Driffield's long-gone first wife.<br /><br />Several things are going on in CAKES AND ALE. One is the real history of Edward Driffield (whose stature and career bear something of a resemblance to Thomas Hardy, who died in 1928), and the narrator's own interlinked coming of age. Then there is the narrator's scathing look at literary society and the machinations by which critical success and public favor are won.  He drops a lot of industry insider jokes, and several actual personages are discussed, but he also returns to the eternal writers' theme of who among them will be read past their deaths.  Lastly, the sharp contrast between Victorian life and 20th century existence emerges as a dramatic theme; there is the sense that those with one foot in each culture will never be able to fully absorb the rapid change in mores and fashions.  The only figure who floats across the divide is the person who from the outset bucked convention of any kind, Rosie.<br /><br />Maugham infuses the narrative with a sharp wit and good conversation. It is very shrewd and justifiably cynical about human ambitions and weaknesses. The dramatic storyunfolds slowly but with tensions and secrets that keep going until the very end.  This remains very satisfying reading 75 years after publication.	2005-06-29
US	53041816	R17NT89Z51PKYH	0151312508	175195886	The First American: A Story of North American Archaeology	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Still fresh after 34 years, deserves a reissue	Going and looking for the first human to occupy the North American continent, in other words, what is called pre-Columbian culture, is a different process than digging up the ruins of Greece and Rome.  Though sophisticated in their own right, the native American Indians did not leave behind a recorded language or literature or structures on the level of those in the Mediterranean region.  It is a matter of searching for the humans and their societies first-anthropology--and digging their material world second.  That's what distinguishes the content of THE FIRST AMERICAN from author C.W. Ceram's GODS, GRAVES AND SCHOLARS, the classic introduction to archeology.    Unlike GG&S, THE FIRST AMERICAN fell out of print a long time ago, but it possesses the personality and quality information of its predecessor and deserves a contemporary audience.  Ceram, the penname of German journalist Kurt Marek, does a great job of surveying a huge body of information, bringing forth the scientists and adventures behind the finds, as well as the technological tools.  He easily sorts out the complicated Carbon-14 dating, dendrology (dating through tree rings) and stratiology, the chief means of assaying cultures that vanished without clues.  His voice twinkles with amusement as he observes how often the great discoveries were made by amateurs.  Ceram/Marek addresses the Viking encounter with native peoples as well as the Spanish, French and English.  He looks primarily at the Southwest, the mounds that dot the South and Midwest and the discovery of mummies. It was Thomas Jefferson, excavating a mound in Virginia, who launched archeology in America, digging for the sake of knowledge, rather than for treasure, as the earliest explorers had done.    Published in 1971, this book does not feel dated.  The author includes the contributions of women and minorities and is quietly emphatic that the ancient American cultures not be denigrated as primitive just because they may not compare in technology and literate culture.  Though Ceram/Marek died a year after this was published and is not around to update it with subsequent findings, this still stands as a fine layperson's introduction to a fascinating world.	2005-06-28
US	53041816	R33XURHCCES6IP	0316346624	226933679	The Tipping Point: How Little Things Can Make a Big Difference	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Fascinating intro to sociological epidemiology	I heard the business buzz about THE TIPPING POINT and wrongly assumed that the book was yet another exercise in how to build effective teams to boost profits.  I'm glad I decided to read this anyway because it turned out to be a journalist's fascinating investigation of sociological epidemiology.  In other words, it is an analysis of what has to happen to \\"tip\\" the scales and produce a major change of fortunes or behavior.     Gladwell has a fluent, straightforward voice that sparkles with excitement and wonder at his subject.  He breaks down the phenomena he studies, that range from the success of Paul Revere's midnight ride to contemporary teenage smoking, and identifies the basic components common to every case study.  The most salient aspect of his information is the message that size does not matter: in fact it is the \\"Law of the Few\\" that is operative.  Things change because there are \\"Connectors,\\" the people who have a higher than average pool of friends and acquaintances, \\"Mavens,\\" the people who have amassed authoritative knowledge to share, and \\"Salesmen,\\" the persuaders.  Things change because the message has a sticky quality, because the environment is conducive to the tipping, and because among the audience there are the risk takers, the early adaptors and then the early and late majority joiners.    Gladwell introduces his information in an engaging voice and builds it carefully so that it is easily retained, though it is not simplistic.  When he references a name or fact a hundred pages after the first mention, there is no need to turn back for a refresher.  You remember what he says.  He is always sticky, a near maven and often persuasive.  No doubt our current cultural climate of overwhelming uncertainty has created the context for tipping this book onto the bestselling charts.  It has come when it is most welcome.	2005-06-08
US	53041816	R3W4NAAQH3O77	0141180765	99731146	Sea and Sardinia (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	28	30	N	Y	DHL and the Queen Bee do Sardinia	In 1921, D.H. Lawrence joined the British literary tradition of writing a travelogue.  He and wife Frieda, \\"the Queen Bee,\\" were weary of Sicily where they were staying and selected Sardinia for its promise of unspoiled primitiveness and lack of \\"tourist-parasites.\\"  Though SEA AND SARDINIA follows many of the conventions of the travelogue genre of the time, playing to the market for a foreign experience, moments of wonder mixed with irony and nationalistic-centric sentiments, it is also a self-revealing journal in which Lawrence's passions, rages and perspectives get a frequent work-out.   <br /> <br />As travelogues go, SEA AND SARDINIA may be found somewhat lacking in the description of landmarks.  Lawrence focuses on encounters with the people, who presented a multi-layered lesson in the collision of the ancient with the 20th century and the recent war.  In speaking to the audience back home, Lawrence often expresses himself in literary and historical allusion and his musings ring with a psychological resonance that is both intentional and unintentional.  The result is an entertaining and informative experience that imparts much about post-war Europe and this particular traveler. <br /> <br />This is a fine critical edition.  The annotations are discretely listed at the back of the book, with no disruptive footnotes blotting the page.  There are also a good map, a glossary of Italian words and phrases and a brief bibliography following the text. A chronology of Lawrence's career precedes it, as does a critical introduction.  Despite the quality of the introduction, I heartily recommend reading it AFTER you've enjoyed the text on your own terms, because it gives away some of the surprises (as critical introductions are wont to do). <br />	2005-05-31
US	53041816	R3S58VSO5I6TB8	0822958627	793257078	Appalachian Winter	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Informative, inspiring reading	I first encountered the works of Marcia Bonta when assigned her books to review for a university publication.  She fast became a personal favorite.  I am especially fond of the quartet of seasonal nature journals, APPALACHIAN SPRING, APPALACIAN FALL, APPALACHIAN SUMMER and now APPALACHIAN WINTER.  Bonta has a sharp eye, a wealth of knowledge and a graceful hand at writing that will hook anyone anywhere even though she is documenting life atop a mountain in central Pennsylvania. <br /> <br />The volume on Spring was her first in the quartet, and stuck closely to the flora and fauna on the mountain.  The next in the series was Fall, in which her daily treks and observations brought her and her family up against an unscrupulous lumberman whose devastation of the land bordering theirs offered lessons in public policy and environmental awareness.  The Summer journal included glimpses of new human life in the form of a grandchild while search parties looking for a lost child wove through the Bonta's beloved woods.  The Winter volume thrums with close-up looks at birds, mammals, insects and climatic events but Bonta's awareness of ageing and the aggregation of human devastation of the environment also creep in.  She weaves a tapestry of wonder, fact, observation, opinion and thought.  Her way of life is extraordinary and she is generous to share her world. Though I was saddened at the prospect of no more entries to anticipate in the seasonal journals now that Winter concludes the quartet, I am heartened that Bonta expresses the conviction to continue to uphold her role as steward of the natural world and to serve as its interpreter as long as possible. <br />	2005-05-17
US	53041816	R3EFDCRFDXU3H9	0316734519	128562699	Downtown: My Manhattan	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Know it by its velocity and its nostalgia	There are books I fall so helplessly in love with, I fear the last page because it means having to leave the special world the author has made.  DOWNTOWN: MY MANHATTAN, an amalgam of history and memoir, is one of those books.  It brings to mind all the \\"E\\" words: elegant, electric, extraordinary, exquisite, etc.  Up to now, V.S. Pritchett's excellent LONDON PERCEIVED was my benchmark for a trip through a beloved city's neighborhoods, pushing aside the layers of time to plumb origins and connections to the present.  DOWNTOWN exceeds it, at least in my affections. Here's why: <br /> <br />Hamill is a New Yorker's New Yorker.  The child of Irish immigrants settled in Brooklyn, he crossed the river to attend art school and never looked back, except for sojourns in the service and abroad.  The former editor-in-chief of both The New York Post and The Daily News, he covered the city's politics, crime, commerce, art and people.  Those he did not know personally or professionally he has tirelessly researched back to the first European settlers on the island.  He brings them wrigglingly alive with masterful vision and carefully torqued prose while gazing upon a contemporary site that offers up some material connection to the past or at least its ghosts.  He moves, as the settlement did, from the tip northward to Times Square and the edge of Central Park. Hamill's description of the architectural topography is peerless.  On the streets, he can see the origins of the iconic New York personality, the accent (\\"like a fist\\") and enduring cultural icons. He celebrates the gains and mourns the losses, the latter epitomized by the 11th of September 2001. That day does not dominate the book but informs it with a quiet tension, empowering the terms \\"velocity\\" and \\"nostalgia\\" that are woven through as counterpoint leitmotifs.   <br /> <br />	2005-05-02
US	53041816	R3ST88WUU1PMCX	0060563443	124726879	Skeleton Man (Joe Leaphorn/Jim Chee Novels)	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Not up to par, but part of a good series	SKELETON MAN is an okay read if you are in love with the Joe Leaphorn/Jim Chee Navajo mystery series by Tony Hillerman, but I recommend that a new reader to the books start with A THIEF OF TIME or TALKING GOD to see why the rest of us keep coming back despite the occasional weak entry. <br /> <br />This does have its good points:  It has Leaphorn and Chee and their community of present and former law enforcement officers on the reservation in the Four Corners area.  Most of the action is set in the Grand Canyon, described nicely by Hillerman.  Its inspiration is the true event of a disastrous collision of two passenger airplanes in 1956, which spurred the organization of the FAA and consequent regulations.  The territory where bodies and possessions showered down is also a restricted Hopi spiritual place that becomes the vortex for Hillerman's present day seekers of DNA evidence and a fortune in diamonds.  The location and plot line marry well with the mythology represented by the titular spirit.  In the book's only real subplot, a slim one at that, Chee and Bernadette Manuelito tacitly negotiate the terms of the engagement and pending marriage, with Chee trying hard, though not always succeeding, in acculturating himself to a communion of equals.  Leaphorn doesn't get much play here, but he ushers in the story and winds it up the same way, talking over old cases and new action over coffee with his buddies at their favorite hang out. <br /> <br />Unfortunately, there are some loose ends and a confusing moment when characters are introduced in Chapter 28, saying \\"nice to meet you,\\" who actually met in Chapter 8, about 24 hours earlier in the action.  Subplots and clues evaporate before they even have the dignity to become red herrings.	2005-04-18
US	53041816	RXNE97H3SGCB4	0618509283	528177434	The Plot Against America: A Novel	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	Compelling, destined to be a classic	THE PLOT AGAINST AMERICA is an alternative history, but it is first and foremost a work of high literary art that transcends genre.  The book begins with a different outcome for the 1940 American presidential election:  Charles Lindbergh has successfully achieved the Republican Party's nomination, trading on his image of everyone's aviation hero, leapfrogging the campaign trail in his plane and dashing flight suit. Voters are dazzled by the figure he cuts and the promise of no war, and do not consider the implications of his isolationist policies and well documented German sympathies. He beats FDR with a 57% majority.   <br /> <br />Roth studies how Lindbergh, with Vice President Burton Wheeler and cabinet member Henry Ford, forges a German-friendly agenda in America and accuses the Jewish population of being war-mongerers through their impact on one family--his own.  The Roths are a middle-class family, comfortable in their Jewish neighborhood in Newark, NJ that thrives with the immigrant passion for America and the freedoms and opportunities it has bestowed.  The minute Lindbergh takes office, that world begins to crumble and eventually explode.  In the fall of 1942, events take a surprise turn, but the profound damage inflicted in those two years leading up to that point will remain an open wound no matter the outcome. <br /> <br />Roth seamlessly moves between the dispassionate rendering of the historic events to the perspective of his boyhood self experiencing the emotional brutality and disintegration of his family.  He never loses the child's voice; every fluent sentence bears a razor-edged sense of truth.  What happens to the Roth family is absolutely heartbreaking.  What is as frightening is how close America actually came to this.  In an appendix, Roth cites incontrovertible sources, provides time lines and biographical sketches, and includes an actual speech made by Lindbergh that leaves no question as to his sympathies and hostilities toward Jews.   <br/> <br />Much of contemporary literature is slumped in navel-gazing.  This book demands that we look at the bigger picture.  It is a brilliant statement of what it means to be American. This is the book I want the world to read a century or more into the future, to understand the themes of the 20th and early 21st centuries. <br />	2005-04-12
US	53041816	R36KCZLBJOT9W8	0811728986	678679532	Pennsylvania Breweries: 2nd Edition (Breweries Series)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Fine guide for locals and travelers in PA	After watching a tie-in PBS documentary, I purchased this book for the beer connoisseur in my life.  We were familiar with two of the breweries mentioned and found the write-ups to be accurate, so now we're setting out on occasional trips to others in the state.  The good news is, many of them have very decent restaurants where the beer can be sampled. One caution: this edition is 5 years old.  Do call to make sure the information is current before jumping in the car.  A postscript: Mr. Beer Connoisseur has found several local beers that stand up to or even exceed his European favorites.	2005-04-01
US	53041816	R2R71R5ZIFKINQ	0385508026	80550875	Shameless Exploitation in Pursuit of the Common Good: The Madcap Business Adventure by the Truly Oddest Couple	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Entrepreneurship 101	Everything I ever needed to know about successful entrepreneurship I learned from SHAMELESS EXPLOITATION.  1) It begins with a creative product, not in the search for a way to make money (sorry, Mr. Sinatra).  2) It begins with a product that fills a hole in a market (in this case, salad dressing made with fresh ingredients, no additives, conspicuously absent from mainstream grocery store shelves back in 1980).  3) Time-honored production and marketing methods can also be time-ragged and not right for your product.  4) Ask questions of everyone you know. 5) Put out a little venture capital and don't overreach (these guys put out $40,000 and lived within those means).  6) Don't compromise the integrity of your product, find ways to accommodate it.  7) There are other ways to publicize the product other than expensive advertising. 8) A movie star's name means nothing; it's all in the product and the hard work that goes into it (sorry, Frank).  9) You have to love and believe in your product. 10) You have to love the process of getting the product out there. 11) If you build it, they will come.    Everything I ever needed to know about pursuing the common good I learned from SHAMELESS EXPLOITATION:  1) Just do it.  2) Invite everyone to participate.  3) Miracles can happen.      Everything you ever needed to know about this book: 1) It's a fast read.  2) It's an honest read.  3) It's an insightful read.  4) It's an inspiring read.  5) The part about the charities served by Newman's own will blow your socks off.  6) The authors are highly entertaining tour guides of their adventure. 7) There are a few recipes to boot. 8) It is refreshingly free of those simplistic aphorisms that plague most business world books.	2005-03-30
US	53041816	RBV08ISRNVVZE	0816047022	127440531	In Search of the Dark Ages	Books	5	33	34	N	Y	Meticulously Pieces Together A 1,000-Year Puzzle	This book was conceived as a companion volume to the author's 1981 BBC documentary series of the same name, and it stays current with a postscript penned in 2001.  IN SEARCH OF THE DARK AGES tackles some of the same territory of at least two of Wood's subsequent books, DOMESDAY and IN SEARCH OF ENGLAND, though his objectives and lens are different each time.<br /><br />Wood's Dark Age parameters are framed by the Roman triumph over the last, first century A.D. Celtic rebellion led by Boudica (that's right; \\"Boadicea\\" was a misreading of the calligraphy in the original source) and the Norman Conquest of 1066.  In between, he selects a pageant of personages to elucidate succeeding generations and the overlay of first Roman, then Anglo Saxon, Viking and finally Norman cultures: King Arthur, the nameless Sutton Hoo man, Offa, Alfred the Great, Athelstan, Eric Bloodaxe, and Ethelred the Unready. The Dark Ages are quite the challenge in which to go looking for the truth, thickly crusted as they are with the opacity caused by too few extant primary sources and too many Medieval fictions, as well as so many change-ups in cultures, language and leadership. Wood does a quality job of reading the sources, critiquing the fictions and sorting out contemporary scholarship and archeological finds.<br /><br />Wood writes in an astoundingly lucid voice that rings with wonder.  The immediacy of his tone, though unsensational, does leave you feeling blood-soaked as you emerge from these violent times. Despite the ruinous invasions and battles, you can see a shift in values, the coloring of what would become the English language and the evolution of a nation. This is an excellent book for general readers wishing to shore up their knowledge of western civilization.	2005-03-28
US	53041816	R267L1D29KG0PG	0316740403	364639681	Case Histories: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Engagingly humane	As someone who has spent way too much time watching contemporary British television detective dramas, I found the territory of CASE HISTORIES familiar:  psychologically damaged souls, dysfunctional families, sexual overtones, snappy pacing and an imperfect, edgy detective hero who is divorced.  Although you can easily see the plot and characters transferred to a BBC production, the book has a literary side to it, which results in a pleasant narrative voice that captures both pathos and humor, as well as some dickering with the rules of detective fiction exposition and plot resolutions. <br /> <br />The story: In contemporary Cambridge, England, Jackson Brodie, a former policeman who has a private investigation practice that seems to net mostly domestic cases, becomes the vortex through which three cold cases are revived and finally played out.  The eccentric Land sisters want to find out what happened to their little sister who was literally snatched from the arms of one of them while they slept in 1969; obese barrister Theo Wyre is still reeling over the death of his youngest and favorite daughter who was killed by an unknown assailant in his office in 1994; and Shirley Morrison wants to know what became of her sister's baby after her sister killed her husband in 1979.  Brodie looks at his clients and their cases realistically, but he also accords them the respect and patience that they haven't found out in the world.  More than one character accuses him of aiming to be the last good man standing, and he is indeed a moral touchstone who is all too aware that the monsters are out there.	2005-03-15
US	53041816	R1XD4F2OZOHJJN	0375759174	569473707	Northanger Abbey (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Shrewd and witty	Jane Austen just knocks me out.  She wrote in a living room full of extended family,she wrote longhand when paper was not so plentiful as it is today and mistakes could not be so frequently wadded up and tossed to the landfill, she wrote without the instant editing afforded by personal computers, she wrote without benefit of the MFA programs and workshops we are assured today are the only route to producing literary art, and yet she wrote beautifully and for all time.  Every word counts, every character is real, every scene pulses along in a swift current.  Her work can be many things at once: social satire, romance, social criticism, a comedy of manners.  It is a portrait of a certain society in a certain time, it is a universal commentary on human foibles, gender relations, class and money.      NORTHANGER ABBEY was one of Austen's earliest mature works, and it stands alongside PRIDE AND PREJUDICE and the rest.  She does something different in this one: she uses her own novel to, among other things, satirize the popular literature of her time, especially Ann Radcliffe's MYSTERIES OF UDOLPHO.  She sets out telling us that her protagonist, Catherine Morland, is not your typical heroine, that in fact she's ordinary without special talents, a dramatic home life or heart-stopping beauty.  She belongs to the audience that was vacuuming up the burgeoning genre of popular literature of her time, and the second half of the story largely finds her attempting to live like a heroine in her favorite gothic romance, only to have reality jump out of the closet at her at every turn.  The first half of the story is the set up for the second, the comedy of manners that positions her in the company of the residents of Northanger Abbey, whose name conjures up in her mind a dramatic ruin of a castle.  There is, in fact, quite a bit of suspense that keeps you up late, just not the kind Catherine has in mind. If you pay attention in the first half of the book, you will find the \\"guns\\" neatly planted that go off in the last act.	2005-03-01
US	53041816	R14UGDBZ0SC2SR	0452285925	563664510	Leonard Maltin's Movie Guide 2005	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Still one of the most thorough guides out there	I wanted a guide that was as thorough as possible.  Over the years, Leonard Maltin's movie guide has proven to be the best I've found.  It makes a terrific gift for all ages.  I recommend this edition over the mass market because it is slightly easier to read.  Whatever the case, this jogs memories, solves mysteries, coughs up the crossword and trivia answers, arbitrates arguments, helps decide what to watch or rent.    Chances are, you aren't going to agree with all the ratings.  I don't, but it's not the ratings that count for me.  Chances are, if you are over the age of 45, you'd like something rendered in a larger font--so would I, but the magnifying glass I use for atlases and maps is at my elbow anyway and this is not as bad as an insurance policy, so what the heck. Maltin could make the move to two volumes or to a coffee table size paperback.  He could drop the actor directory, move that to a different book and restore all sorts of lesser knowns. I'd willingly buy a separate directory.    But still, it's the best quick reference out there.	2005-02-25
US	53041816	R2VOHAZYYVE8Z	0674962370	875668484	Writing Was Everything	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Simply Brilliant	The world lost a truly remarkable man of letters when Alfred Kazin died in 1998.  Fortunately he left behind a trail of criticism, essays and memoir that allow us to enjoy him ad infinitum. WRITING WAS EVERYTHING is the text of lectures he delivered at Harvard in 1994, an amalgam of criticism, history and personal anecdote that celebrates the massive energy in literature and intellectual discourse that took place in the 1930s, the war years and its aftermath.   <br /> <br />Born in 1915 to Jewish immigrants and raised in the Brownsville section of Brooklyn, Kazin experienced the world and gained a ticket to it through reading.  Using his own passion as a guide, Kazin tours the major American and European writers' experience and the ways in which they interpreted the 20th century cultural and historical earthquakes.  It was a time when writing was living and readers were affected by what they read.  It was a time when people beyond the academy talked about philosophy, when it was still connected to daily life.  It was a time when people debated religion, not the political machinations or social prescriptions of a few denominations but the questions of pursuing faith in the face of war, genocide and cultural upheaval.  It was a time when people took seriously the need to find a social and political order that could right wrongs.   <br /> <br />Kazin's voice is most fluent and vivid.  It is full of wonder and awe.  It is obvious that he is not thrilled with the hegemony of lit crit or the dispassion with which contemporary academics treat texts, but he does not waste time attacking the current mode; rather he foils it with remarkable stories and assessments of Orwell, Joyce, Elliott, O'Connor, Weill, etc., etc.	2005-02-21
US	53041816	RMVCX6QX04MH	0553801643	84734697	Cat's Eyewitness (Mrs. Murphy Mysteries)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Series Has New Wind	CAT'S EYEWITNESS is, I believe, the 14th entry in this cozy murder mystery series.  I had read up through the ranks out of habit and was rewarded when it picked up new life in the last volume, WHISKER OF EVIL.  The good news is, this sustains the energy of that one.  Brown hasn't taken a left turn; she simply is taking advantage of the possibilities she set up with the original book:  a rural village setting in western Virginia and quirky but not unreal characters who are bound together by neighborhood, culture, the past and the ever interrupting present.      The murder mystery part of any Brown and Brown collaboration is not the strength in itself of the books.  It is an opportunity to exercise characters and their issues.  The real mystery is more about the human condition.  In this volume, the heroine, Harry, the now former post mistress of Crozet, Virginia, is dealing with unemployment and a deadline from Fair, her ex-husband who has extended a marriage proposal.  Her friend Susan is extremely moody and suspicious of her husband, the stalwart Ned.  Boom Boom, formerly an adversary from childhood and now a friend of Harry's, a siren to men, is undergoing some self revelation.  All of them are feeling the pinch of approaching middle age.  In the meantime, there's been a grisly death at a nearby monastery, which allows some honest conversation about non-political faith and the post 9-11 malais that is felt even in a Brigadoonish place like Crozet.    Brown's writing is graceful and smart about humans and animals.  Her setting is tactile, real.  The characters continue to breathe for this reader.  I read this as a comedy of manners and am not too bothered that the murder mystery is not the strongest in the genre.	2005-02-21
US	53041816	R2U4AIUBF3N1ER	0399151613	781983073	The Jane Austen Book Club	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Smart, generous, witty, honest--can't say enough	Too infrequently, a piece of contemporary American literary fiction comes along that blasts away the sameness of voice and humorlessness that has settled in on the genre.  THE JANE AUSTEN BOOK CLUB is one of those books.  Though I read it from the perspective of someone who has read the Austen novels, I'm not sure that it is a prerequisite to enjoying several of the many layers of experience this book dishes up.<br /><br />In what is a both blindingly original move and yet one that in hindsight seems like such a good idea it is incredible no one has thought of it before, Fowler has organized a fiction, a comedy of manners, around the reading of Austen's six novels.  There are six members of the book group, each will host a discussion on a different novel. Her characters are contemporary residents of California's Central Valley near Sacramento: Jocelyn, 50-something, never married, a control freak; her best friend from childhood, Sylvia, devastated in the wake of her husband's departure for a younger woman; Allegra, Sylvia's 30-year-old lesbian daughter, an artist; Prudie, a 28-year-old married high school French teacher; Bernadette, an eccentric 70ish much married woman, currently single; and 40ish Grigg, the only male in the group, unmarried, something of an enigma at first.  As the book moves through the conversations about Austen, it sorts out its character's histories and lives, and all the various relationships that shake out.  Fowler has lots to say about love and sorrow, and about the culture of the world she portrays-our world--that is as airtight as that which Austen constructed in her books.<br /><br />There are some genuinely funny moments in this book.  A day in Prudie's life at the high school where she works is hilarious and very, very real.  Fowler made me feel at home with topical references that I thought were remembered only to me.  Austen is incomparable and Fowler knows it, so rather than trying to transplant the early 19th century England to 21st century California or to ghostwrite the 7th major Austen novel, she has taken some lessons and has delivered her own inventive piece of writing with a wonderful voice, in which everything eventually sorts out in a balance Austen would probably approve of (though probably would not be sweet enough to admit).  A final bonus: Fowler injects the narrative with fascinating quotes and facts on her muse.	2005-02-21
US	53041816	R1ZZDMGZ3AHZJL	1595405011	437612651	An Inland Voyage	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Entertaining and Still Fresh Travelogue	As a young man, Robert Louis Stevenson (RLS) needed to get out from under his parents' control and set about funding his freedom by writing travelogues, the big three being TRAVELS WITH A DONKEY, THE SILVERADO SQUATTERS and AN INLAND VOYAGE.   <br /> <br />AN INLAND VOYAGE was undertaken with a friend of the leisure class, a voyage mostly conducted on the Oise River, from Belgium through France, in 1876 when RLS was 26 years old.  Each man had a canoe rigged with a sail, and in the wit that infuses the entire narrative, RLS refers to his companion and himself by the names of their boats, the \\"Cigarette\\" and the \\"Arethusa,\\" respectively.  His is a lucid, chatty travelogue filled with insights on the rural culture they encountered and various adventures and misadventures along the way. The humor is often at his own expense.   <br /> <br />There have been many editions of this work since it was first published.  Mine, a delightful UK travel guide that includes contemporary directions for following RLS's itinerary, also adds an additional adventure on foot that was not in the first edition, in which he is thought to be a beggar and tossed in jail by officious police whose uniforms sound perfect for an over the top Gilbert and Sullivan production.  My copy also includes later prefaces by RLS's wife and stepson, who met him on this journey.  I hope this edition includes those extras as well. <br /> <br />I gave this 4 stars, though it is obvious I found it highly enjoyable.  I nicked it by one because TRAVELS WITH A DONKEY is even better and shows this up a little. I highly recommend both.	2005-02-10
US	53041816	R1VZNA8MS47HYK	1932416242	282025856	The Polysyllabic Spree	Books	5	44	45	N	Y	You can't not like him	I am attracted to books that discuss the author's reading and ideas about it and inevitably I get so far and wonder, why aren't I out there reading for myself instead of holding this person's hand? Not so with this, which is over far too soon.  Hornby, riffing about his own reading, his life, his outlook, is holding the reader's hand.   <br /> <br />The title would suggest a word riot, which THE POLYSYLLABIC SPREE is, but it is also the name Hornby puts to the murkily protean powers that be at \\"The Believer Magazine\\" where the book was born in monthly columns.  Each month's chapter begins like an entry in Bridget Jones's Diary, books bought, books actually read, then leaps off into what happened, what he actually read, what he thought about it, how it connects (and sometimes does not, like when one's football team is on the television) to life.  Hornby is very funny, and also very serious.  He is also full of contagious, unabashed wonder.  He is quick to skewer pretension or gratuitous content.  His style is highly caffeinated and raspy from nicotine, hilariously hyperbolic one moment, piercingly specific the next.  He is willing to say he is wrong or doesn't know.  He keeps it all about our mutual love of reading, but divulges other insights along the way, like what it's like to be the dad of an autistic child, to become a father for the third time, to try unsuccessfully to quit smoking, to be a writer amongst all the reading, the parenting and everything else going on.   <br /> <br />The proceeds of this book go to charity.  How can you not like this guy? <br /> <br />	2005-02-01
US	53041816	RP11TGQ1B54TY	0380002450	110871072	The Awakening	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Still Fresh, Still Elegant	THE AWAKENING is Kate Chopin's best known work, and it is also the last novel she produced, largely owing to the fact that it scandalized Americans when it was published at the end of the 19th century.  Critics were dismissive; Willa Cather suggested it was a Bovary wannabe.  It enjoyed a revival with the coming of feminism in the 1970s, featured on women's studies' syllabi and as a frequent pick for feminist reading groups.  The question begs, \\"Is it still fresh or is it a period piece?\\"  I say it's still fresh, a classic worth reading beyond its obvious affinity for women's studies.  Given its short length and velvety, vivid prose, it is also an easy read, so there's no reason not to give it a go.<br /><br />This is the story of a 28-year-old wife and mother in fasionable New Orleans Creole society of the 1890s, who begins to respond to socially unprogrammed feelings about her desires in life.  She gives into feelings for a man not her husband, resists her husband's efforts to control her life and indulges her artistic side.  She sets herself on a difficult trajectory that requires, as a friend tells her, strong wings.  Whether those wings are strong enough forms the tension of the novel.  Don't read any critical introductions or biographical detail before reading this book, because most give away the ending.  Chopin is a master story teller and a deft literary writer.  The story of a woman trying to salvage the self in a social pressure cooker was not totally unheard of in the late 19th and early years of the 20th century, and it has had several outings in the last 3 decades, but Chopin writes as if she were the first and last to tackle the theme, and her twists are original.  The eye on the affluent Creole society and the character development are superb.	2005-01-26
US	53041816	R3LD05KXTQISOJ	0142000809	376154080	Ex-Libris	Books	3	4	6	N	N	A literate but not literary warehouse of facts and details	17th century England, not to mention the world, was a place of huge turmoil, a profound flip-flopping of ideas and fortunes.  The sciences unleashed by the Renaissance, the new order of religion introduced by the Reformation and the discovery of the New World shook the foundations of European culture.  In England, the Civil War temporarily deposed the royals and Oliver Cromwell seized power.  It was a time of high intrigue, spies, suspicion and superstition.  It was a time when knowledge was a powerful and frightening thing, and the books and maps that held it inspired the best and worst intentions of humanity. <br /> <br />Against this backdrop, Ross King has set the story of a quiet bookseller, a 40-year-old widower with a club foot, who becomes a reluctant agent in the intrigues of his century when he is asked to go looking for an ancient text that was apparently pillaged along with everything else in a country estate that had been taken in the Civil War and only recently returned to the original heir.  Interwoven with the bookseller's first-person account is the third person narrative of 4 decades earlier, following the suspenseful trail of three individuals caught up in the Bohemian royal's escape to England with a mysterious cargo for which people are willing to risk lives. <br /> <br />King has reams of good material going for him but he squanders it in lackluster prose.  His bookseller's voice is indistinguishable from that of the third person narrative and there is little affective character development.  King drops every opportunity to exploit the potent irony in many scenes.  In the end, the book is a warehouse of details and facts, rather than a passionately moving story. <br />	2005-01-17
US	53041816	R161CIZTCEPML1	1592400876	436381860	Eats, Shoots & Leaves: The Zero Tolerance Approach to Punctuation	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Knowledgable, highly entertaining tour of, yes, puncutation	It should not have been in the stars that a book on a subject as dry as punctuation would make it to the bestseller lists on both sides of the Atlantic, but it has and the reason isn't just good luck. Author Lynne Truss, a self professed punctuation stickler, writes with knowledge, passion, not to mention an entertaining jazzy wit, with the result that EATS, SHOOTS AND LEAVES is great fun and not a little instructive. <br /> <br />It is odd that in an era where the conventions of language are treated so casually in even the highest places, people still bleed when their grammatical usage is assailed.  In other words, nobody likes a stickler.  What sets Lynne Truss apart from the stickler chorus is the fact that she does not make it personal. She never assumes that the reader needs to be improved. She does use real world examples, like the title of the Sandra Bullock-Hugh Grant movie \\"Two Weeks Notice,\\" in which the possessive apostrophe eluded everyone from the screenwriter upward through the ranks of the studio brass, but she never wastes time flaying the irresponsible.  Instead, she spends her time on correcting the errors, clarifying the rules (with notes on American usage where it diverges) and slipping in some historical notes.  No one reading the book will feel as if they have been taken to the woodpile, only entertained and better informed.  I was actually sorry to see it end. <br />	2005-01-10
US	53041816	R1N7JCDOX0GETI	0156941767	670344200	A Walker in the City	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Simply Exquisite	In the 1940s, Alfred Kazin (1915-1998) revisited his Brooklyn childhood in the short yet elegant memoir, A WALKER IN THE CITY.  It is a stunning literary work, with the added bonus of getting a rare close-up view of a particular culture in a particular time and place that might otherwise be lost in oblivion.      The culture is the Yiddish enclave of the Brownsville section of Brooklyn, circa 1920s and the coming of the Great Depression.  To the young boy, it was the entire planet, one that throbbed with the food, language and traditions of old world immigrants who want their children to preserve their ways but avail American education.  The neighborhood's minorities include the Italian peddlers, the gentile school principal, and the African American population that is beginning to settle at the edges, on Livonia Avenue.  It is a time of change: in the streets there are Zionist, Socialist, Communist, and union proclamations.  Young women are bewildering their elders with their independence and new thoughts on marriage.  As Kazin grows older, he begins to experience \\"the beyond\\" as well: the world brought in by films and literature, the wonders of \\"the city\\" (Manhattan), the mysteries of the human condition.    The telling of his story is golden.  It's as if Kazin is a cinematographer, his prose growing more colorful as he slips from a walk in the present back into memory.  He plays to all the senses with vivid imagery.  His rhythmic prose is effortlessly lyrical. So precise is his description, that when I looked up a map of Brooklyn, the streets he named are all exactly where he laid them out in my mind.	2005-01-04
US	53041816	R3QLTNE9CN0XLR	0563551275	282813135	Domesday	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Excellent read for the curious, general reader	Michael Wood writes for the rest of us who are curious, general readers who are not trained historians with access to original source material or current professional activity.  Many of his books have been tie-ins for BBC documentaries but they all stand on their own.  DOMESDAY was published in 1986 as a tie-in for a series commemorating the 900th anniversary of the creation of that extraordinary document. <br /> <br />Twenty years after storming England, William the Conqueror needed to boost his revenues.  He sent agents out into the countryside to assess every community, from its leaders down to its peasants and slaves, even their livestock, with an eye on levying taxes.  All of this was recorded in the Domesday Book, a document that offers a very rare glimpse into the structure and daily life of an agrarian culture in the Dark Ages, its title referencing the Biblical image of Doomsday as an act of judgment flowing from authority.  In the Domesday Book, Wood finds evidence of the contemporary racial, social and political structure of the culture, but also looks through it back to its antecedents in Celtic and Roman Britain.   Wood does not offer a study of the Domesday Book itself so much as uses it as a prism, to look backward and then forward.  Though the Celt and Roman population was essentially removed and replaced by the Anglo Saxon invasion which brought the origins of the language and racial profile with which England is associated today, Wood finds evidence of continuity with Celtic social structure and land-use foundations in the Domesday survey.  Looking past Domesday, he traces the survival of the social structure to the plague years of the 14th century, which reordered everything, and the dominating agrarian lifestyle up to the coming of the Industrial Revolution.   <br /> <br />Wood may be accused of overlaying fact after fact as he builds his case, but his method clarifies a tangle of kings and place names. His prose is clean and swift enough.  His illustrations are modest but very interesting, with many aerial shots.  For me, the book solidified the historical timeline and I feel enriched by Wood's effort.  He succeeds in bringing individuals, whether peasants or kings, to life.  The Dark Ages are a little brighter and more visible for his efforts. <br />	2005-01-03
US	53041816	R2N2YD85QDG336	0375422188	629465826	The Full Cupboard of Life (No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency, Book 5)	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Full Of Life	This is the fifth of a contracted 8 books in the No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency series.  The first book in the series broke out of genre limitations and was as much an astute and charming literary experience as it was a detective's story.  The next three books offered more time with the enjoyable protagonist and regular characters in the surprising world of contemporary Botswanna, but they no longer held the surprise of the first book, and the mysteries devolved into simpler puzzle that were more comments on the human condition than challenging plots.<br /><br />THE FULL CUPBOARD OF LIFE springs back with a lot of the energy of the first book.  True, there is only one detective case that gets attention in the plot, plus the mystery of Mr. JLB Matekoni's intentions as Mma Ramotswe's fianc&eacute;e-will he ever name the wedding date-but this volume buzzes with the character development, gentle humor, cultural backdrop and insight into human ironies that blasted the first book to international attention.  There are twist endings to both questions posed to Mma Ramotswe.  In the meantime, things are looking up for her associate, Mma Makutsi, whose entrepreneurship has brought her comfort in life though as yet has yielded a love interest, and there is much to be learned about the wiles of Mma Potokwani, the orphanage manager who knows how to get what she needs for her just causes.  The author is true to his characters and their world, and works a spell with his graceful prose. The country he describes is astounding.	2004-12-17
US	53041816	R1NOWYT8MEBDER	0670030783	10638082	Napoleon (Penguin Lives)	Books	5	48	62	N	Y	Accomplishes much in under 200 pages	My reasons for choosing this book:  my world history background is weak, I wanted to fill in a crucial gap; I did not want to spend several months on a steamer trunk of a biography; I am a fan of the Penguin Lives series; I have read Paul Johnson before and know him to be a fine stylist in content areas that many writers lay waste with stultifying prose.  I was not disappointed for the most part. <br /> <br />Understandably, it is impossible to catch every fact, every nuance of Napoleon Bonaparte's life and ongoing contribution to history in just under 200 pages (one Victorian era writer dedicated 10 volumes to the man).  Johnson limns the environment of the Enlightenment and revolution that was sweeping the western world and connects the life in terms of its how, why and consequences.  He strikes a remarkable balance between the birds-eye view of Bonaparte sweeping through Europe and close-up personal sketches, the former conveying the formidably shrewd man of action, the latter revealing an often comic figure.  It is to Johnson's credit that he reconciles the two in one body.   <br /> <br />Johnson is in no way forgiving of Bonaparte but he does invite wonder at how he rose up out of inauspicious beginnings, could seize a continent, only to make such glaring errors in strategy at Waterloo and ultimately die in exile on a distant island.  The autopsy report is a final ironic twist. <br /> <br />Johnson is not without his biases, but I got very good information from him via bright, fluent prose. <br />	2004-12-10
US	53041816	RFYDPC6JRHQY3	037542217X	405618230	The Kalahari Typing School for Men: More from the No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Strong entry in strong series	THE NO.1 LADIES' DETECTIVE AGENCY was such an original and winning debut, that the subsequent novels in the series at best can only live up to it.  There is no matching the surprises with which that first book was loaded, especially in terms of its characters, its setting, its wonderful voice and wit, its story structure.  The good news is that Alexander McCall Smith does not betray what he has set up and he continues to use it to good effect in the 4th volume, THE KALAHARI TYPING SCHOOL FOR MEN.<br /><br />For the uninitiated, this is a series set in Botswana, Africa, in which the estimable Mma Precious Ramotswe has set up a detective agency.  This is not your standard mystery formula.  The series relies more on the puzzles of human interactions and weaknesses in a traditional society that is rapidly adapting the first world frame of mind.  This time around, Mma Ramotswe tangles with slick competition, while her assistant, the surprising Mma Makutsi, takes a more central role.  The various strands of stories come together with Dickensian coincidences, but the author has already snatched your disbelief at the door so you don't care.  THE KALAHARI TYPING SCHOOL has its comic moments which are not at odds with its wise reflections.  My only criticism of this volume is that the author does not devote the time to exploring his original characters, Mma Ramotswe or her fianc&eacute;, Mr. J.L.B. Matekoni, that he gives to Mma Makutsi.  He has recovered the deeper sense of the country that went missing in MORALITY FOR BEAUTIFUL GIRLS, but not to the depth of the first book in the series.	2004-11-12
US	53041816	REOMBGLN5XWEW	0865475407	990884860	Out of Sheer Rage: Wrestling With D.H. Lawrence	Books	4	41	42	N	N	Everything ate his homework	Geoff Dyer was the award-winning UK author of five other books, some novels and nonfiction, before he set out to write a critical study of D.H. Lawrence.  It is, according to his personal codex, a rite of passage every serious author eventually must pass, writing a critical study of an important muse.  He readied himself.  He stocked up on books by and about Lawrence.  Not good enough.  He built shelves for the books.  Not good enough. He went to places Lawrence went to.  Not good enough.  He read Lawrence's letters, many volumes of them, but not in such a way to organize his study. Instead, he behaved badly, very badly at times. His Lawrence study, OUT OF SHEER RAGE, thus became a chronicle of how not to write a book, or at least, how not to write the book you intend to write. <br /> <br />Ordinarily, I am not a fan of people behaving badly or whining about the nest they built and then sullied, but this book is absolutely delightful for many reasons: 1) The narrative is a study in rhythm and precise language that conveys the mania of the title. 2) Dyer actually does get off a study of Lawrence, however oblique, that is insightful and invites wonder; it's just not the particularly detailed or deadly stuff of conventional biographies, hagiographies or academic studies.  It is a telescope into the soul of a man far more tortured by his own sensibilities than Dyer, who nonetheless produced an appreciable oeuvre in a short life, who was, when said and done, comic in his anxieties.  3) It is a fine meditation on the attempt to get as close to a writer as possible, through the works and through the material detritus of a person's life.  4) It is a ripping, emperor's-not-wearing-clothes indictment of academic studies, which delights me and probably continues to offend academe big time.  5) Regarding the latter, it is a fine meditation on things disparate as shrines, house museums and historical conservation.  6) It is a travelogue, after a fashion.  7) It provides a windowto the experience of a breakdown.  8) Egocentric, of course, but at no time does Dyer really ask the reader's pity, he only asks that the reader be entertained and informed.  9) It is informative (see reasons 1 - 7).  10) It is highly entertaining, laugh out loud funny at times.   <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-11-02
US	53041816	RLBLIAK8PPKEE	0688168272	145903213	The Best Vegetarian Recipes: From Greens to Grains, from Soups to Salads: 200 Bold Flavored Recipes	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Doable, Reliable, Earthy but High Style	I own a number of Martha Rose Shulman's cookbooks and when THE BEST VEGETARIAN RECIPES arrived, I thought, uh oh, it's a greatest hits album.  It's much better than that.  True, earlier versions of several of the recipes appear in her other books but all are invested with a freshness here, with the latest wisdom in method and equipment.  Shulman has a Mediterranean sensibility that lends itself to all the cuisines she draws from.  The dishes are earthy yet sophisticated.  I've made several of the recipes and they always turn out as intended.  They are satisfying even for the roast beef eaters who have turned up at my table.  This is a book for weeknight dinners and to cook out of when guests are expected.	2004-10-20
US	53041816	RNX8OMEP5RVI3	1928556396	988324501	Searching for Virginia Dare: A Fool's Errand	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Going After Virginia Dare	In 1587, the first boatload of English colonists reached America and set up a community on Roanoake Island, straddling the Albemarle and Pamlico Sounds between the North Carolina mainland and the barrier islands known as the Outer Banks.  Shortly thereafter, Virginia Dare was born, the first English child in the New World, the granddaughter of the colony's Governor, John White.  The colony was in trouble and just after her baptism, White took off for England for help.  Unfortunately, he did not succeed in returning until 1590, when he found the colony vanished, people and buildings gone, only a cryptic carving on a post, \\"Croatoan,\\" and on another, \\"Cro.\\" The mystery of their disappearance haunts the region today, and in the centuries since, it has spawned theories, hoaxes, books, legends and art, and keeps historians and archeologists in business.  It is difficult to visit the Outer Banks and not be romanced by the history.  What happened to Virginia Dare, who represented so much hope, especially preoccupies the cultural consciousness. <br /> <br />Writer Marjorie Hudson turned amateur detective to go looking for Virginia Dare herself, beginning the summer of 1999, as Hurricane Dennis hovered off shore.  The result is a book of creative nonfiction that mixes historical summaries, interviews with historians and archeologists, a review of the legends that have grown up around the figure of Virginia Dare, personal soul searching and creative inspirations.  Hudson does not add anything new to the canon of research and imaginative products but she is most successful in summarizing salient activity.  Her interviews with the real history detectives are the best part of the book. Quite honestly, though I am a fan of the creative nonfiction genre, I did not find harmony in Hudson's attempt to forge her personal history and creative interpretations of the colonists' experience with the other elements.  It seems contrived.   <br /> <br /> <br />	2004-09-24
US	53041816	R3AGB5PVXNL40H	0807071447	95666357	Welcome to Lizard Motel: Children, Stories, and the Mystery of Making Things Up, A Memoir	Books	5	6	11	N	Y	This Should Be Mandatory Reading	In what is being called a memoir, an account of some difficult passages in her young children's lives that occurred across a period of several months, Barbara Feinberg manages to quietly but clearly indict the state of contemporary young adult literary fiction.  She is courageous on several levels, from opening up her family life to readers to her willingness to say the emperor is wearing no clothes, which these days is the same as risking never being able to eat lunch in this town again. <br /> <br />Essentially, WELCOME TO LIZARD MOTEL begins in late summer as Feinberg realizes her passionate, bright and happy 12-year-old son, a lover of learning and all things Mel Brooks, is resisting the literature assigned for school.  So are his friends.  As one says, \\"It gives me a headache in the stomach.\\" A teacher insists, \\"A good book is supposed to make you cry.\\" Feinberg reads the books, which she names, many of which are award-winners.  What she discovers is a world of emotional and physical violence, in which the message consistently emerges, wake up, kid, life is cruel, get over it, grow a callous or two. Feinberg believes in the power of literature to transform and to assist the individual to connect and grow but finds that none of these \\"problem\\" books offer the inspiration of imagination to suggest that the world can be negotiated, not just borne. <br /> <br />Feinberg weaves a tapestry of her research, her own memories of growing up and reading, the events of the months she records, the picture of her children's lives in and out of school, and the creative arts workshop she runs for children out of a church basement.  In no way are the strands forced into a contrived mixture. She does not shout; she makes her points through a steady accumulation of consideration. She evocatively describes the procession of late summer into winter, echoing her son's entry into the preteen years and the scary event of her 7-year-old daughter's sudden health challenge.  The world she gives us is authentic and it is interwoven, unlike the disengaged narratives of her son's assigned books.  <br />	2004-09-13
US	53041816	RKHMH606GSVUW	0807855103	859142027	How to Read a North Carolina Beach: Bubble Holes, Barking Sands, and Rippled Runnels (Southern Gateways Guides)	Books	5	38	38	N	Y	An Ideal Beach Read	This is beach geology 101 rendered in a pleasant and most fluent voice like the best of classic nature writing.  The considerable information is meted out in a way that is easily absorbed.  Before you reach the end, you are walking on the beach identifying runnels, plunging breakers, nail holes, swash and wrack lines and other exotica without running back to the book for help.  You are no longer alarmed at black sand (it's sand of a different mineral base), you have new respect for the heaps of broken shells in your path.  You understand how beaches are formed and where sand came from. You now know why a beach never looks the same from one day to the next. You can identify evidence of the mess caused by human intervention. This book will enhance your stay at the beach in ways that whiffle-light detective fiction never will.	2004-09-12
US	53041816	R2378K46TQRG93	1400031362	405618230	Morality for Beautiful Girls (No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Not best in series, but still pleasurable	MORALITY FOR BEAUTIFUL GIRLS is the third installment in the First Ladies Detective Agency Series starring the estimable Mma Ramotswe, a modern woman of Botswana who has not forgotten the beauty of the vanishing older culture.  The first book in the series, THE NO.1 LADIES DETECTIVE AGENCY, was an unexpected Christmas gift of fine writing, a whole new style, a new rhythm to spinning mysteries, infinitely resonate of Africa and humanity. The second book, TEARS OF THE GIRAFFE did the first justice, though it was more conventionally linear in its deportment.  This third book is in part episodic like the first and partly straightforward like the second, a wiggly balance that is difficult to reconcile. <br /> <br />MORALITY FOR BEAUTIFUL GIRLS essentially rolls a lot of logs at the feet of our heroine.  Her detective agency is leaking rather than garnering profits, despite a busy agenda.  Her fianc, the dependable Mr. JBL Matekoni, is suddenly not himself and his business is in disarray.  A government dignitary wants her to go undercover and prove his sister-in-law is poisoning his brother.  An orphanage wants her to look into the mystery of a foundling.  Meanwhile, a star rises in Mma Ramotswe's secretary, Mma Makutsi, who rushes in where her boss is not and takes on the titular strand of the story, a job involving a beauty contest.  It gives the author an opportunity to tie together the themes inherent in the other story lines. <br /> <br />It's the plotting that's off, feels contrived, and there is less of the whole of Botswana and Africa in this volume.  But it is a chance to spend more time with charming, original characters in an extraordinary place, so do not pass it over.   <br />	2004-08-31
US	53041816	RO3U09GPV55HM	140006192X	589383699	Skywriting: A Life Out of the Blue	Books	5	75	80	N	N	Putting a normal face on bipolar disease	Jane Pauley, that intelligent ray of sunshine, AND bipolar disease?  The news dropped me in my tracks.  Here was a trusted, normal face on a condition I've always looked upon as a scary problem to run from.  I, who almost never reads celebrity memoirs, scooped up SKYWRITING immediately to learn more.   <br /> <br />SKYWRITING begins with the 2001 bipolar episode, a side effect of a heavy dosing of steroids for persistent hives.  If the news stopped me, just a television viewer who does not know Pauley personally, imagine what it did to her, a person who always seemed to be sailing forward in her busy public life.  As she healed, she began experimenting with what she calls \\"skywriting,\\" starting out with an image or memory and seeing where the pen took her.  When she was done, she had revisited her childhood, adolescence, career in television and family life.  She invites readers along on her journey to self rediscovery.   <br /> <br />Pauley's writing is clear as a bell, and the chapters on the bipolar experience are delivered without overdramatization.  Once the book turns to her life, it measures out in segments reminiscent of \\"Dateline\\" pacing, with segues fraught with foreshadowing.  Those looking for hot gossip will not find it.  There are several personal revelations but none that will change the way Pauley is received in the world: warm, smart and genuine.  Few journeys of the self are as downright decent and ultimately as reassuring as this one. <br />	2004-08-31
US	53041816	R3IGG5RUOG5Q6Z	0679724532	275081924	The Gnostic Gospels	Books	5	14	18	N	Y	Lucid, nonpartisan tour of defining epoch	In 1945, an Egyptian peasant hoping for treasure of the gold variety found instead a cache of Coptic translations of writings produced by an early Christian sect in the first century or two following the crucifixion of Jesus.  In the 1970s, Elaine Pagels was one of the early researchers to study the works, which had been recklessly disseminated after their discovery.  She found them to reveal extraordinary information about the significance of the death of Jesus in his time as well as the evolution of the tenets of Christian faith.  THE GNOSTIC GOSPELS is not a translation of the works but a scholar's analysis of the information and vision they impart. <br /> <br />Pagels portrays the generations that witnessed and followed Christ's death as passionate and diverse in seeking paths to honor Jesus and worship God. The works found at Nag Hammadi, Egypt are the product of the Gnostics, regarded by their rivals, the Orthodox, who as heretics.  Pagels shifts through the conflicting visions of the era, particularly as they apply to resurrection, confession, gender influences, the passion of Christ, and the evolution of a religious community.  Her inquiry produces an answer as to why the Orthodox survived to establish the Christian religion recognized today and why the Gnostics eventually flamed out. <br />  <br />THE GNOSTIC GOSPELS is a lucid, nonpartisan tour of a creatively and politically charged era of human and religious history.  Pagels assumes the reader has some acquaintance with the New Testament and the disciples. Those whose introduction to Gnosticism was THE DA VINCI CODE will find that it is a far more complex and abstract construct than that popular entertainment suggests. <br />	2004-08-24
US	53041816	R25JSYHZKK6YHN	0684800713	781452863	The Sun Also Rises	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Winner For All Time	Ernest Hemingway gave the world a gift in THE SUN ALSO RISES.  It is many things that are good in the literary sense and it is a highly readable novel, one of those over far too soon at 250 pages.   <br /> <br />Narrated by Jake Barnes, an American journalist living in Paris, THE SUN ALSO RISES chronicles his community of fellow ex-patriots in the 1920s.  The chief characters, besides Barnes are Bill, Robert Cohn, Mike Campbell, and Lady Brett Ashley.  That all the male characters are in love with the promiscuous Brett is just one of the tensions building as they travel to Spain for the fiesta of the running of the bulls in Pamplona.  The realistically presented bullfight yields a lesson in bull and steer herd dynamics, which becomes a metaphor for the gang's own conflicts as it steadily becomes apparent that what binds them together is the frustrating attempt to find purpose and reason in the wake of the physical and emotional devastation of wartime experience.  Hemingway employs a line spoken by Gertrude Stein in conversation as an epigram: \\"You are all a lost generation.\\" He also quotes from the first chapter of Ecclesiastes: \\"One generation passeth, and another generation commeth: but the earth abideth forever.  The sun also riseth . . .\\"   <br /> <br />In any other hands, Hemingway's story would have been so much melodrama. In his, it is comic and tragic. His story is charged with top of the craft writing.  He excels at exposition, voice, character, dialogue, setting, and style.  Symbolism sneaks in without the author having to bang the reader over the head.  What seems like so many simple declarative sentences--he did this, she said that--creates a fully dimensional literary experience.  The characters are fully drawn, representative of their time but also of universal conflicts.  That some express antisemitic sentiments that are no longer socially acceptable (though not necessarily extinguished) provides thought-provoking material for comparing generations.There is much to discuss in this book and it is far too good to avoid by capitulating to study guides. <br />	2004-08-03
US	53041816	RG3FKIJQS4EZZ	0679642668	610795891	London: A History (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	4	32	32	N	Y	Entertaining history	The Modern Library Chronicles Series matches an accomplished author with a given era or place or institution with which he or she has a special affinity.  The product is a ?short history,? usually no more than 200 pages.  The prose styling is always clean and fluent.  It is a worthy series and LONDON is a dependable addition to it. <br /> <br />With only 192 pages of text, and some of those taken up by chapter separations, author Wilson, a novelist and biographer, obviously had to make some choices in what to present. Those seeking Roman Londinium and the settlement it was in the Dark Ages may be disappointed to find that the city?s first millennium is dispatched in about 4 pages.  In fact, half the book is devoted to less than the last 200 years. For Wilson, London the city, London the seat of Britain has its roots in the Norman invasion of 1066.  Governance, commerce and urban design are recurring topics as Wilson moves through eras, with his chapter titles sharply characterizing the emergent themes he finds within.  So it is ?Chaucer?s? London, not ?Medieval? London, and not because of the poet?s artistic legacy; it is his London to suggest the value the crown placed on alliances with tradesmen and moneymakers.  It is Stuart and Tudor London, not Elizabethan or Shakespearean, etc., up to the end of the Bowler Hat (1960s and 70s), Cosmopolis, and Silly London (present).  Wilson is not hesitant to assail the results of poor planning and dismal aesthetics. Like Charles Lamb, however, who could not think of a place more desirable than London at a time when the streets and Thames stank of sewage and citizens were expiring in a notorious heat spell, he also finds it elegant. <br /> <br />Because this is filled with good information and flows easily, I probably would have awarded it 5 stars were it not for something that is not its fault:  I had already read V.S. Pritchett?s LONDON PERCEIVED, which raised the bar high and begs comparison.  In that 1962 book, which isn?tthat much longer in length, the author walks through London?s neighborhoods, pulling out a balance and depth of vision that ultimately eludes Wilson.   <br />	2004-07-22
US	53041816	R2O4C18A4QNCCX	0140185976	304026032	The Moon and Sixpence (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Proficient, swift reading	MOON AND SIXPENCE by W. Somerset Maugham is worthy on two levels, the insights into the cultural sea-change from the Victorian era to the war years and the craft the novel displays, particularly voice, character and perspective.  <br />Inspired by the life of painter Paul Gauguin, Maugham investigates what it takes at age 40 for a successful and respectable banker in Victorian London to walk away from the responsibilities of job, high social status and a family, and into poverty a world away for the sake of art.  Briskly told from the vantage point of an acquaintance looking back, Charles Strickland is first encountered as a somewhat Philistine but prosperous, upright gentleman.  Sent to retrieve Strickland after he precipitously deserts his family, the narrator, a young writer, finds an unrepentant man. Five years later, the narrator encounters him again in Paris where the artist has grown more monstrous though his art reveals a beguiling genius.  Even the tragic recipient of the worst behavior unleashed by Strickland remains his champion in the art world.  <br />The narrator does not meet up with Strickland again, but to set the record straight he interviews those who knew him up to his death at age 53 in the remote South Pacific.  The novel takes its power in well developed characters, even the most minor are fully realized. The very last chapter is brilliant in its sly revelations of the themes and cultural benchmarks articulated by Strickland's life, death and art.<br />Maugam, once a prominent early 20th century writer, did not make many, if any, end of the century, end of the millennium \\"best of\\" lists. Now this relatively prolific British writer is beginning to show up on the radar of literary discourse again.  Mostly the talk is of CAKES AND ALE and THE RAZOR'S EDGE, the latter last popular with adolescent baby boomers, but MOON AND SIXPENCE, only a little dated, is due consideration.	2004-07-16
US	53041816	R1WA4SYZQV1N42	1573229326	319964836	How to Be Good	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Don't Read This Alone	Even if you are not a book group kind of person, you will want to read HOW TO BE GOOD with at least one other soul.  This is a book that sprays out discussion questions like a garden sprinkler gone mad.  It is also a decent contemporary urbane London novel, not one that particularly epitomizes the genre or takes it to new heights, but a decent exercise in that mode all the same.<br />HOW TO BE GOOD is the first person narrative of a doctor, Kate, who lives a middle-class life in a liberal way, meaning that she chooses to work in a clinic, she recycles, she votes labor. She is married to a misanthropic newspaper columnist, David, who has reached the point of insufferability (there comes, well into the book, a two-pages-long list of everyone David disapproves of, which is hilarious and is followed by the list of all four people who are okay in his lights, though Bob Dylan only makes the thumbs up for his early self).  The book sets out immediately with Kate's blurting out the d-word (Divorce) to David during a routine call home from a conference and taking a break from the marriage in the form of an unexciting one-night  affair.  When she returns the next day to life at home with her husband and their two young children, things begin to change dramatically. David undergoes a sea-change, becomes Mr. Charitable.  He installs a faith healer in their home, and the plot wends its way through their schemes, their effects on the family and the community.<br />It's an interesting, engaging journey, told in a witty voice.  It never reaches the manic pitch it could (imagine what Martin Amis would do with this material), but it moves right along, so that for all its ideas to mull over, it is a fast read.	2004-07-07
US	53041816	R3S3ICJZBJ9UDQ	0399150838	142987744	So Many Books, So Little Time	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	One of the best of the books about reading genre	Books derived essentially from somebody else's reading list attract me every time, but I'm usually sorry by mid-point because they only remind me of my own reading that I'm neglecting.  Or, they tell me what I already know or feel.  Or they don't talk enough, they just list.  Or they talk up books that aren't my thing.  Sara Nelson's SO MANY BOOKS, SO LITTLE TIME is different.  I enjoyed every minute of it.<br />Nelson is an inveterate reader, the messy kind who frequently has more than one book open at once.  Her plan for the year 2002 was to read a book a week and record her reactions, or more importantly explore how the book ties into her life.  The weekly entries take on a variety of themes, not to mention books, as Nelson opens up her mind and life.  Books that dovetail with the issues of her life, books that distract her from the issues of her life, books that work or don't on vacation, books that call up her younger selves, books that nick into her marriage or relationships with parents, books that parent with her, books that fit a mood--she finds them all across the year.  She is amazingly candid, wisecrackingly funny and often touching.  She keeps the suspense going: can she keep up the pace and fulfill her goals?<br />In the end she and we know far more about her than about the books, but learning about oneself is part of the reading journey.  I think a lot of readers will find that even if their lives and likes are different from Nelson's, they will have found a soulmate.	2004-07-07
US	53041816	RQ97IIU6BO5TL	1565848705	392312214	Amazonia: Five Years at the Epicenter of the Dot.Com Juggernaut	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Fine writing, informative and entertaining	It was the editorial content of Amazon.com in the late 1990s that originally drew me to the site.  It was literate, it was cool. I badly wanted a job there.  I never put in an application but AMAZONIA has materialized, charting a senior editor's experience in the years 1998 - 2001, providing a highly entertaining and instructive report on what I missed.<br />Though James Marcus was the quintessential fish out of water, a 37-year-old among younger co-workers, a humanist among the MBAs, an irony-eating Easterner come to live among the irony-shy Pacific Northwesterners, he plunged in and stayed with Amazon for five years during its mercurial rise.  It is a credit to his writing skills that he is able to convey the real-time motion of the individual in a workplace moving at warp speed.  A thematic conflict emerges from this garage-to-empire tale: how does a person hold onto the self in a virtual wind tunnel?  It wasn't always easy, especially with the added curve of those stock options that paid off handsomely at first.  Interestingly, of all the players, the energetic master of it all seems to remain the least affected by the riptide.<br />Marcus is a gifted chronicler.  He provides a fair behind-the-scenes picture of how events and phenomena unfolded.  His account is always thoughtful and often hilarious.  It says a lot about our entire culture and how technology is redefining it.  He refers to his years at Amazon as an \\"epoch,\\" an extraordinary concept when you remember that all of this unfolded less than ten years ago.	2004-06-25
US	53041816	R303TNZM6BEBRL	0553801619	95317864	Whisker of Evil: A Mrs. Murphy Mystery	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Refreshing entry in series	The Mrs. Murphy mystery series is like a favorite pair of old slippers.  I'll read one no matter what, but I think this particular volume shows new life.  Although I don't have the objectivity of someone who has never read any of the books by the team of Rita Mae Brown and Sneaky Pie Brown, I think a newcomer could easily join the club with WHISKER OF EVIL. It defines old characters and references to past events and purveys the strengths of the series. Comparing this book to others in the series and to its genre, it gets 5 stars.<br />The chief strength I find is that Brown succeeds in satirizing the \\"cozy\\" mystery genre at the same time she pays homage to it.  She has created some genial though not uncomplicated regular characters and a world that she does not puncture even when shaking things up, which she does considerably this time around.  She is realistic (well, as realistic as you get when animals have their own lines of dialogue). What began in her first books as a speck on a rural map of Virginia, the town of Crozet in Albemarle County, has become urbanized rural.  Government regulations plague postmistress/heroine Mary (\\"Harry\\") Hairsteen.  You can see the whole South grappling with its past, present and future through this series. In deceptively simple prose, she conveys a strong sense of how time and the world catch up with the individual.<br />The mystery itself is predictable.  But who really reads or even writes \\"cozies\\" as brainteasers?  Brown is having a lot of fun.  She exercises a lot of knowledge about horse culture and airs her views on growth, government, taxes, ageing, and humanity, not to mention tourists who visit the real town of Crozet and don't find it as cute as they think a setting in a \\"cozy\\" should be.	2004-06-21
US	53041816	R2AEET1OR94O2P	1582344523	338583724	Mongo: Adventures in Trash	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	A brave new world scribed in neat prose	By the time Ted Botha notes \\"the civilian dread of the collector who might be a lunatic,\\" about three quarters of the way through MONGO, the reader is no longer a civilian.  The reader is helping to open a black garbage bag, waiting to see what is inside. Botha is writing about the people who cause passers-by to quicken their pace or cut a wide berth, those who mine trash if not for survival than for a reason to live.  Botha set out to find out what makes them tick, and in doing so has opened up a very surprising world filled with fascinating, intelligent characters who blow away assumptions.<br />For the most part, Botha's world is New York City.  He slips quietly and wide-eyed into each foray into an aspect of collecting but soon peels away aspects of the experience to reveal startling secrets.  The author's tour guides live a little differently and are willing to put up with dirt, sludge, sewage and rotting garbage, not to mention the disdain of doormen and other \\"civilians.\\" There are people who feed a whole commune from garbage cans, who furnish huge spaces, even build with found materials.  There are hunters who excavate landfill and come up with relics from the Revolutionary War and the 19th century.  There are the preservationists who have saved segments of the city's former grandeur when parking lots and glass buildings have gone up in their place. There are first editions of world classics, jewels and works of art.  <br />Botha writes assuredly, making for a quick-paced but thoughtful book reminiscent of John McPhee's work.  He does not impose value judgments or undue insights.  Rather, he goes along for the ride and does a fine job of introducing a very wide-ranging social, psychological, economic culture that makes sense.  In the end, it is the \\"respectable\\" middle and upper classes who have thrown away perfectly good things, in some cases deliberately poisoning them or creating laws to discourage pickers, who leave us scratching our heads.	2004-06-15
US	53041816	R25OESIEZS79LY	0967984351	924454820	Essential Eating: A Cookbook: Discover How to Eat, Not Diet	Books	4	21	23	N	Y	Easy to cook from, good food	I was going for the culinary adventure when I bought this, but that is not its primary raison d'etre.  The book evolved from the author's personal journey to wellness, looking at a way of eating that is healthful rather than abusive.  It is based largely on the methodology of Shelly Summers, a holistic nutritional counselor who believes that good eating habits can help conquer or at least ease the debilitating effects of everything from acne to AIDS.<br />Depending on the level of the body's \\"dis-ease,\\" the author recommends various regimens.  Each level has allowable foods and some to avoid.  There is a surprising variety for each level. What drew me to the book, after seeing the vibrant author on local television, is the experimentation with a lot of ingredients I've only read about.  Quinn prefers organic everything and exotica like sprouted grains and legumes, quinoa, kefir cheese and maple-based sweeteners.  Her entrees are fish, poultry or vegetarian.  Interestingly, she uses eggs and butter, but judiciously.  <br />I've tried several recipes and all are easy to follow and produce good stuff.  As I put the chicken hash on the table, I thought, nooo, too simple, will taste like ground chicken \\"helper,\\" but in fact it had depth of flavor.  I am skeptical about using butter, but the little called in the green quinoa really set it off. Since I do not live in an urbane area, I had to go out on the internet to dig up the ingredients not found at local health food stores.  I'm still looking for sources of sprouted seed flour, kefir cheese and affordable maple sugar.  Until I do, I'll use reasonable substitutes.	2004-06-11
US	53041816	R3ICEWKV6B2BNT	0962818607	859872288	Nature Guide to the Carolina Coast: Common Birds, Crabs, Shells, Fish, and Other Entities of the Coastal Environment	Books	4	18	18	N	Y	Serviceable and Entertaining	My goal in purchasing this book, which pulls together information about birds, shells, dune plants, and fish was to be able to pack one slim volume instead of the bag of field guides I usually took to the Outer Banks. After two trips to North Carolina in the last year, I have found that I still need to carry a couple of other references because this is not comprehensive in any one of its categories--and how could it be at 148 pages? However, Meyer's guide does manage to cover many of the specimens commonly found along the Carolina coast.  Furthermore, it is written in a graceful voice that keeps you reading long after you've put a name to the beastie you found on the beach. It is not childish or simple at all, but it can be used by the entire family. It stirs wonder.	2004-05-20
US	53041816	R3UMPHBFSLZSZX	0679732268	161451712	Light in August	Books	4	3	4	N	N	An epic of knowledge and ignorance	LIGHT IN AUGUST is one of Faulkner's knottier works, layered with braided plotlines and themes.  It could just as well be a work of science fiction, set as it is in a post-apocalyptic world, where cast-up survivors stagger about in a frightful disconnect, trying to reconstruct meaning and a code to live by.  Of course, they are doing a terrible job.  This is no nuclear winter, though. It is the rural south of the early 20th century where the Civil War happened yesterday and the failures of Reconstruction continue to take their toll.<br />The plot lines are not easily sorted out for a capsule account.  It is tempting to begin, \\"At the heart of the book . . .,\\" but Faulkner would be the first to respond, \\"how do you know with any certainty that that is the nucleus, that is the real truth?\\"  The tattered social code that these people have snatched from the fire of the Civil War comes down to a few \\"givens\\"- white is supreme, black is untenable, men must be strong leaders unbent by lesser forces, women must be virgins until they marry and true to their husbands, and murder, especially of white by black, must not go unpunished.  Truth is at once harshly stolid and easily muddied.<br />The author devotes the greatest amount of energy to the grizzly murder of a spinster, ostracized by her Mississippi community by virtue of her Yankee heritage and her social ministerings to the black community.  That she is white and the accused is assumed to have partial black heritage gives the white populace something with which it can define itself, a fierce, righteous drive to avenge the death.  Faulkner sorts out the histories of the players to determine why they have become involved, the truth of their individual existences as well as their knowledge in respect to the case. Weaving in and out, like a stupid Cassandra, is the very pregnant Lena, who begins the book by pursuing on foot her missing boyfriend out of Alabama, and continues to pursue him even while it is obvious he is a lost cause, even when there is someone else willing to assume responsibilities.<br />Faulkner's use of language and symbolism is breathtaking.  This is worthy reading, but do be warned, it is not for the faint of heart.  Seventy-five plus years later, it causes you to ask the disturbing question, have we come far enough away from the cave of dark violence and ignorance he depicts?	2004-05-18
US	53041816	R3O3QSITCH2I5P	0140042520	961771211	The Dharma Bums	Books	5	39	41	N	Y	A cool drink	DHARMA BUMS came out a year after ON THE ROAD.  While the latter is the beat manifesto celebrating the peripatetic lifestyle, BUMS focuses on the beat romance with Buddhist enlightenment and the building of an inner life.  ON THE ROAD was an instant, memorable success, and while BUMS no doubt fed a desire for more of the same, it stands apart, its own satisfying work of art, its own way of sending telegraphs from the heart of the beat movement. Many of the episodes are based on actual events and experiences that were still fresh memories as the book was written.<br />Ray Smith is the first person narrator of DHARMA BUMS, a look alike for Jack Kerouac.  For most of the book, he slyly puts Japhy Ryder at the center of attention.  Ryder is a stand-in for poet Gary Snyder who survives, who as a young man in his twenties was already a natural leader. Surrounding them are other familiar figures from the era, including Alvah Goldbook (translates to Allen Ginsberg).  They all write poetry and love jazz, women, and a casual lifestyle. They seek spiritual enlightenment.  They delight in trolling for clothes in the Good Will and Army and Navy stores, they savor the simplest meal over a campfire.  They are the Dharma Bums, rejecting the paralyzed emptiness they ascribe to middle class life.<br />I really like this book.  The prose is clear and concrete, even when sorting through abstract notions.  It is often funny.  Kerouac had extraordinary insight into individual nuances and desires, and plays them into the tension of the journey and the sorting out.  He had a gift for seeing how outsiders might perceive him and his crowd and how history might come to interpret the present he was portraying.  Though he is legendarily perceived as a spontaneous artist, there is extraordinary control and shape imposed on these pages. Only twice does he momentarily break his world: once, in my edition, he slips and refers to Japhy as Gary, and another time, slipping out of the immediacy of theaction, he pays a compliment to a simple meal on the road, noting that even as a lionized young writer in New York, he had not had a better meal in an upscale restaurant.  Those curious nanoseconds can be forgiven, however.  This book is a joy.	2004-05-03
US	53041816	R36OCWW2HKB3BX	0743200314	394552213	Shakespeare's Kings: The Great Plays and the History of England in the Middle Ages: 1337-1485	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Compelling reading	John Julius Norwich is a historian and a lover of Shakespeare.  His book, SHAKESPEARE'S KINGS is a well-matched marriage of his passions.  Essentially, he recounts the history behind \\"the histories,\\" Shakespeare's plays about the kings who ruled the medieval era, from 1337, the beginning of the 100 Years War with France, through 1485, the end of the War of the Roses and, effectively, the end of medieval monarchy. <br />Norwich takes each monarch and tells his story, then revisits how Shakespeare told the life.  Yes, there are variances: Shakespeare had some misleading references, sometimes misread, and, for the sake of dramatic effect or clarity, often conflated events and characters.  Norwich has not come to chastise him, however. Inaccuracies aside, he says more than once, Shakespeare got it right, nailing the mood and impact of the humans and their acts upon their environment and history, and making art in the process.  <br />As someone coming to the book from the literature side, I found the historical passages rendered in fluid prose and an articulate, fair voice disgorging an unrelenting pageant of gory warfare and tragic choices. England and France must have stunk of blood and rotting corpses the entire epoch. From Edward III to Richard III, it is a 150 year nose-dive propelled by ambition, aggression, greed and often hate.  Henry V is a passing reprieve in the middle, but that competent leader was often given to cruel excesses.  Norwich captures every hairpin turn in the thicket of court intrigues and military battles, a difficult achievement given the constant changing of loyalties and the lengthy cast, many with similar names and most of them brothers and cousins.  Fortunately, Norwich includes family trees and a time line for reference.  He gives us much to think about, and brings a fresh appreciation of Shakespeare.	2004-04-20
US	53041816	R3C7XHI282T594	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	4	6	11	N	N	Fascinating puzzles, mediocre writing	Something about symbols in the works of Leonardo Da Vinci, that's what I heard about this book.  It was said to be an erudite mystery.  That alone was not enough to keep it at the top of the bestselling lists for over a year, so I decided to see what all the fuss was about.<br />My first, and a lasting, impression of THE DA VINCI CODE is of utterly graceless, styleless writing.  Sentences, though mostly grammatical, clunked about like a bag of rusty old plumbing parts.  Here is the author's idea of character development: our hero looks like Harrison Ford. Back stories are inserted regularly, like someone heaving rocks off a moving truck.  And we begin with the death of a contemporary curator at the Louvre, who, shot in the stomach, has the presence of mind to realize that while loss of blood won't kill him, leaking stomach acids will in about 15 minutes, so in the time left to him he strips, uses his own blood to leave several lines of an encoded message devised on the spot, draws a circle and lies in it, and voila, becomes a facsimile of Da Vinci's Vitruvian Man.<br />After a while, say after the first 200 pages or so, that death scene no longer seems so very incredible. Things finally begin to take off as the symbology and codes that had been variously meted out begin to come together in a cannily connected vision of an alternative Christian history, one that has antecedents in generations of historical research. Dan Brown did his homework.<br />It's that part that makes this book matter; otherwise it is a thriller that reads more like the description of an action movie than an actual novel.  It's like riding in an old Jeep off road at 80 MPH without seatbelts or shock absorbers.  As for the denouement:  it is a lot better, more credible than that in THE INSTANCE OF THE FINGERPOST, another &quot;erudite&quot; entertainment that had a lot of good writing going for it but cheated big time with a climax that gave new meaning to deus ex machina.  Brown gets himself out of his box in one piece, without stepping on too many  sensitive toes and without entirely selling out his research and its premises.  His puzzles are fun, if not a little obvious at times, and it is no doubt for those that this book continues to bob at the top of the bestselling lists.t of his box in one piece, without stepping on too many  sensitive toes and without entirely selling out his research and its premises.  His puzzles are fun, if not a little obvious at times, and it is no doubt for those that this book continues to bob at the top of the bestselling lists.	2004-04-12
US	53041816	R2L6HERISY8NUF	0679642447	828818109	The Age of Shakespeare (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	5	17	18	N	Y	Deserves more than 5 stars	The Modern Library Chronicles series has distinguished itself with stand alone historical perspectives written by experts who have a gift for clarity.  What could be so many volumes of Cliffs Notes for significant historical passages or eras are instead a variety of deft studies rendered in strong, attractive voices matched. The latest edition, Sir Frank Kermode's THE AGE OF SHAKESPEARE, raises the bar even higher.  It is nothing short of marvelous.<br />Shakespeare means a variety of things to different people.  Kermode manages to gather up all the threads, looking at the impact of the man on his age and the age, commonly known as the Elizabethan Age, on the man.  It was a time of remarkable cultural strides.  Against the backdrop of the Reformation and the rise of Protestantism, dramatic arts moved from morality plays and oratory to the magnificent Shakespearean canon, from stagings that were out of trunks, to theaters that sat 2,000 - 3,000. Theater wasn't just art, it became a thriving commerce.  Kermode moves through time, looking at Shakespeare's poetry, then his plays as they reflected the Elizabethan zeitgeist (and we think of them as being so universal!).  He looks at the community of poets and playwrights who were not exactly comradely drinking pals, in fact sometimes they would argue to the point of murder, but who did find a way to work together.  He provides readings of the plays and their sources, as well as an overview of critical readings in the 4 centuries since their debut.  He sorts out what matters and does so in graceful prose, under 200 pages.  When I reached the last page, I did something I have not done with a book in a long, long time: I turned back to the first page and began anew.<br />It's that good.	2004-03-23
US	53041816	RWES7Z2FCWVEI	1400041414	10533115	The Murder Room (Adam Dalgliesh Mystery Series #12)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A tad shopworn, but superior entry in genre	DEATH IN HOLY ORDERS, the penultimate entry in the Adam Dalgliesh mystery series, raised the bar high for the latest, THE MURDER ROOM.  HOLY ORDERS had revived the series, with fresh character combinations, plot tricks and the possibility of romance for the long-suffering policeman-poet Dalgliesh.  The question begs, does THE MURDER ROOM measure up?<br />One of James' strengths has always been critical description, both physical and emotional.  Her invention of the museum that serves as the setting is cunning: an institution devoted to the inter-war years of the 20th century, collecting products and exhibits of art, literature, industry, and murders.  The latter is not that far off an idea for such a museum: England has a fascination with intricate crimes going back centuries, and as one character states provocatively, murders have a style that befit their age.  This setting alone is worth the price of the book.<br />Plot-wise, James throws out the red herrings like a rotating sprinkler system set on high.  If you've read her before, you know what she's doing.  You tend to forgive her that.  It's the characters in THE MURDER ROOM that I am not so pleased with.  She has gone back to old stock: snotty upper class adult siblings, the women without whom, a younger adult generation that is hapless and without initiative, and the working class characters who get drawn into the mess created by the privileged characters.<br />Dalgleish, though still sexy in an intellectual tortured soul kind of way all these years into the series, has lost some of this reader's patience and willing suspension of disbelief.  In an age of cell phones and e-mail, he carries on a courtship a la the 18th century.  That would be quaint but instead it is exasperating.  It does, however, provide some tension up to the end, to see if it repels rather than attracts Emma, the literature professor he met in HOLY ORDERS.	2004-03-15
US	53041816	R14C3S8QO89BCH	0380715430	101867755	The Mother Tongue - English And How It Got That Way	Books	4	9	16	N	N	Knowing, entertaining, just a tad dated	When Bill Bryson doesn't have anything else to do (yeah, right), he might want to consider issuing a revised edition of this entertaining but somewhat dated book.  As he so ably points out, language is protean and much has changed in the last 15 years since he worked on this.  In addition to new research and revelations that might correct or amend the text, there is the incomparable affect of the internet that has arisen since this book saw the light, not to mention the \\"business speak\\" that corporate culture has been slipping in of late.<br />That said, there is much to be gained by reading this book.  Bryson's wonder and delight in the English language is contagious.  While some of the historical information may be familiar at first, especially if you, like him, have read McCrum's THE STORY OF ENGLISH, his sorting out of the origins of our language and historical forces is quite lucid and thorough refresher course.  What I especially appreciated was his look at how American and English usage and pronunciation diverged.  I did not realize that the plummy \\"ah\\" sound that Americans identify so strongly with the British accent, as in glahss and cahn't, only came about in the 18th century, a social fashion that survived.  I've come away with a better understanding of the role of how geographic movement and isolation affects language, as well as the very human need to name everything in site.<br />A note to recently indoctrinated Bryson fans: this was written rather early in his book career, in his English mode.  Keep in mind that he only got better and funnier, though there is a sharp intelligence, graceful voice and sly wit behind every sentence of this book.	2004-03-12
US	53041816	R1BNNVQA17B8A1	051757702X	20548107	Martha Stewart's Healthy Quick Cook	Books	4	16	16	N	N	This Delivers	Most people think it is impossible to deliver on a weeknight a dinner that is elegant, healthy and quick.  This book makes the impossible quite possible.  <br />The only reason I've nicked it a star is that for some, a cookbook  titled &quot;healthy&quot; requires nutritional data, which this does not have, and quick in this instance sometimes means more simple than last-minute preparation.  MS makes a case for not including the read-outs, about learning to fly without training wheels (sorry about the mixed metaphors). As for the simple vs. last-minute, a case in point: the wild rice pilaf with dried fruit is elegant and very easy to prepare, but it does require cooking the wild rice ahead and setting it aside.  If you start an hour before dinner is to be served, no problem; in fact, starting the wild rice that early leaves you quite a bit of time to throw in a load of laundry or complete other chores before you pull together the rest of the recipe in the last 10 minutes.<br />I've never had a problem with a MS recipe.  Things always cook up in the allotted time, they always make the proposed quantity, they brown as they're supposed to, rise as they're supposed to . . . The charge has been made by another reviewer that dishes are underseasoned or bland.  I suspect that is because the MS style is to emphasize the natural flavor of the basic ingredients.  A lot depends, then, on the integrity of the ingredient.	2004-03-12
US	53041816	R2DYHMWD3PODVX	0811214575	862476720	A Far Cry from Kensington	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	Delightful	In a novel narrated by a character who believes it her life mission to dispense advice, author Muriel Spark has her counsel a would-be writer to imagine confiding in a letter to a personal friend and to write the story that way.  Spark has followed her own advice and it works delightfully.  The best part of her approach is that she puts out some dramatic irony so that the reader is not just a passive listener accepting of everything the narrator asserts but is aware that not quite all of her advice, nor her assessment of herself, is always on target.  There is a sly wit and spot-on social observations in full bloom here.<br />This is the story of a woman told looking back to 30 years before, to 1954, to a rooming house in Kensington, London, a far cry from her present circumstances.  In 1954, she is \\"Mrs. Hawkins,\\" no first name, with the heft of a zaftig figure and the tragedy of being a war widow.  Everyone knows who she is though she does not always know them in return; she is expected, she believes, to hand out advice, to take care of others, and commensurate with this station in life, she is a mid-level editor in publishing.  She has lots of plates twirling on sticks: her world at the rooming house, her job, herself.  Then along comes Hector Bartlett who embodies what she hates the most: an ambitious but grossly untalented writer, a sycophant.   The upright Mrs. Hawkins, loyal to the truth as she sees it, nails him with a particularly appropriate French vulgarism that  becomes a refrain for her has he periodically intrudes on her life, a vulgarism that keeps costing her jobs.  Because of Hector, her story becomes a series of reversals, from the tragic to the comic.<br />There are many characters, many amusing episodes, many trenchant observations going on in this book.  I've been debating about how many stars to award only because Spark has outdone this book with others, including the recent REALITY AND DREAMS and the not-so-recent THE GIRLS OF SLENDER MEANS.What the heck, I'll give it 5.  I wasn't disappointed in the least.	2004-02-27
US	53041816	R3CA5N9KZR330E	0060586168	15830272	When the Women Come Out to Dance: Stories	Books	4	33	33	N	N	Quality Entertainment	I should qualify this review with the warning that this is my first experience reading Elmore Leonard.  I cannot tell fans of his other 39 books and assorted screenplays how this compares with his general body of work. I can tell you how it stands on its own.<br />This is an interesting, varied collection of nine short stories.  While all share a world where alcohol is a constant undercurrent and the characters have all seen better days, they are quite distinct from one another.  There is a has-been baseball player working against himself for a chance at a decent job, two cancer patients connecting in a Florida retirement community, a former stripper trying to \\"lose\\" an abusive husband, an African American veteran of the Civil and Spanish American Wars facing racism, a cattle rustler trying to help a woman he finds abandoned on a remote outpost, a lawman returning to his hometown to rout someone he had known in his youth who is now leading a neo Nazi militia, and a Hollywood stuntman returning to his Oklahoma roots to reclaim the family ranch from thugs and exorcise the family curse at the same time.  There is a Karen Sisco episode, too, featuring the US marshall character currently the subject of a television series.<br />Some of the stories read like sketches or treatments for screenplays.  The Sisco story stands on its own, though it could easily have been a subplot from a novel or the television show.  I thought the western stories were the most fully realized.  All of the fictions turn on whether the good guy gets what he/she wants.  The storytelling is of the cinematic variety, hinging on action riddled with reversals.  Leonard uses words economically and every single one is well chosen, strong, vivid.  In an era when typos and editing slips mar too many books, this edition (hardcover at least) is free of them and is also assembled with an attractive lay-out design.	2004-02-23
US	53041816	R3S4HD3E6RJZNR	0028639448	847147651	The Complete Idiot's Guide to Screenwriting	Books	3	31	41	N	Y	Very General Introduction For The Young	What I want to know is, who is the complete idiot of the title? The author or me? After reading THE COMPLETE IDIOT'S GUIDE TO SCREENWRITING, I'm not sure.  It is not a complete guide, that's for sure.  The author introduces a variety of components and considerations but explores none in depth.<br />The strengths of the book: before he gets to what and how goes on paper, Press insists that the reader go back to storytelling boot camp and read Aristotle's POETICS and Joseph Campbell's HERO WITH A THOUSAND FACES.  He also recommends a number of other resources, including books, websites, organizations and software that can prove helpful.<br />The weaknesses:  the reader whose mission is to learn correct formatting will be frustrated to find that such nuts and bolts information does not really get underway until half way into the book, and should be warned that it is merely an introduction, not exhaustive.  While suggesting that there are many ways to offend Hollywood with how a script is formatted or bound, Press waffles on exact rules.  Most of his reasoning and support evidence come from half invoked anecdotes that are vague enough to keep him out of the YOU'RE NEVER GOING TO EAT LUNCH IN THIS TOWN AGAIN fire.  When he does name names, the stories are very old news, even to those who do not watch \\"Entertainment Tonight!\\"  In the format of the Complete Idiot's series, the pages are littered with sidebars that distract from the text without providing much more than the author's usual \\"I know a guy\\" stories.  Typos are a presence.<br />So, this is what I know as a result of reading this book:  my idea is right on, but I am too old, live too far from Hollywood, and don't know anyone there to make it count.  I still have no specifics on what Press has scripted that has made it to the big screen.  I do know he has written other books on the topic because he promotes them shamelessly.	2004-02-17
US	53041816	R1JTWA7MIRIHD7	0679640576	218999601	The American Revolution: A History (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	5	13	14	N	Y	Deftly Captures An Extraordinary Turn In Human Events	With less than 200 pages of text, you may well think that Wood's THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION is no more than historical Cliffs Notes.  It rises above that level as a decent read and a refresher for general readers who have not revisited this part of history since school.<br />As Wood notes in his preface, there is a tendency among some contemporary revisionists to downplay the significance of the American Revolution, to challenge its revolutionary stature because it did not fully achieve the full equality of humankind at the one time.  In clean, practical fact-driven prose, he ably responds with a picture of an extraordinary coalescence of intellectual, social and political change that forged not only a new nation and way of governance, but one that quickly emerged as a world leader. Wood deftly sorts out the origins and spurs that produced the tensions in the colonies and in Britain, reviews the highlights of the war, and then visits the newly formed United States of America as its people try on their new identity and begin to build a new way of being.  It ends with the production of the Constitution and Bill of Rights.  <br />The central engine of the book is based in the ideas, particularly of the Enlightenment, that drove the Revolution.  Only the most significant players make appearances, such as Patrick Henry, George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, and King George III.  This is not the book to go looking for Betsy Ross or Nathan Hale.  What struck this reader most of all were the issues that America faced as it took on the mantle of freedom.  Many of the original tensions are still with us, and probably always will be given how democracy embraces diverse people and agenda. Wood's calm rendering of this period inspires wonder at what was in fact achieved.	2004-02-06
US	53041816	RRRKZ8MYQDLNM	0375757325	614019833	Robinson Crusoe (Modern Library Classics)	Books	4	5	11	N	N	High literary and historic value but aged entertainment	The world knows of and has been inspired time after time by the story of ROBINSON CRUSOE, but how many people have read it in recent generations?  I went back to it as part of my ongoing effort to fill in the gaps in my English major background.  I found some surprises.<br />ROBINSON CRUSOE was billed as a boy's adventure in my youth.  In college, Defoe's MOLL FLANDERS was on the syllabus and RC was only mentioned in passing though it is arguably attributed as the first English novel.  The culture into which Defoe introduced RC was driven by a confident, literate middle class that eagerly consumed real life adventure and crime stories.  Attempting to tap into that audience and achieve the quality of a true story, Defoe introduced the elements of verisimilitude and a first person, middle class narrator to fictional writing.  He was, in his lingo, seeking to tell the truth through a lie, which stands as the guiding principle for fiction.  The psychological development of the protagonist is brilliant and the description of setting and events are vivid.  Not only does reading RC take us back to the Ur-moment of the novel form, it is a magnifying glass on the history and social issues of the 16th and 17th centuries.<br />The lifespan of RC's freshness for readers probably ended with my generation, the baby boomers.  We were the first to possess across social and cultural lines enough information of the world to know that what RC claims to have found on the island is purely imaginative and that the concepts of slavery and the superiority of the white European are unacceptable.  Cannibalism and realistic foraging for animal-based food are rarely considered fun entertainment nowadays, neither are the unenlightened methods RC deploys for controlling the cat population he introduced to the island.  Although the Harry Potter series lured children back to thick books, I don't think today's youth are prepared for Defoe's lengthy narration and extensive vocabulary, clean and fluid as they are.	2004-01-26
US	53041816	R2LL77951OGF0M	006099486X	418849151	The Professor and the Madman: A Tale of Murder, Insanity, and the Making of The Oxford English Dictionary	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Spritely Told History	The critical buzz on THE PROFESSOR AND THE MADMAN was highly positive.  I too find it satisfying but no one said anything about its flaws.<br />First, reasons to read it:  Winchester has a good story to tell in the seven-decade evolution of the Oxford English Dictionary and two people instrumental in its development.  Overseeing the project is Dr. James Murray, the professor of the title.  When he sends out a general appeal for volunteers to scrutinize English literature for language use, he receives an extraordinary response, but only one would steadfastly send work of high quality and quantity over the years, a Dr. William Minor of Broadmoor.  Years after Dr. Minor established his value to the project, Murray learns that in fact his chief contributor is a long-term inmate in an insane asylum.  Dominating the book is the case study of Dr. Minor, a wealthy American who may or may not have had a genetic disposition to mental illness, who went into the Civil War as a surgeon, the son of rigid missionaries, and who witnessed the brutal Battle of The Wilderness after which he was forced against his will to brand a deserter on the face.  After the war, his behavior becomes noticeably unhinged and he is sent abroad for a \\"rest cure,\\" the Victorian solution to a gentleman's problem.  He kills a man in London while in a paranoid delusional state.  This book's value is increased by its insight into pre-Freudian psychology and the Victorian social and intellectual outlook, not to mention the Civil War experience.<br />Pointing out the flaws could be called so-much nitpicking.  Though a fluent writer, Winchester relishes dramatic foreshadowing a little too much.  He refers to the paths of Murray and Minor as a \\"collision course\\" and every other turn of phrase like that.  He discusses the distinction of whether \\"protagonist\\" can be pluralized and insists his story has two protagonists, but one receives far more attention-Minor.  Winchester has a habit of inserting odd, unnecessary details:  what does it matter that the sherry served at a meeting of the minds was \\"indifferent\\"? Though I am the first to complain about text log-jammed with footnotes, nowhere does he cite sources, even when he quotes one verbatim.  My only other complaint is resolved in Winchester's new book: he has returned to the subject to shed more light on the evolution of the OED itself.  I plan to read it; the flaws in this are not enough to stop me from reading more of the same.	2004-01-19
US	53041816	R10FEZ3N2Q9365	0765341611	554191539	Three Men in a Boat: To Say Nothing of the Dog (Tor Classics)	Books	5	23	25	N	Y	A Great Find--Read It!	I entered into THREE MEN IN A BOAT with the understanding that it was a laugh riot.  At first I thought, yes it is witty in the extreme, but in places it is a tad Victorian cute, the forerunner of today's sitcoms and stand-up comics.  The more I got into it, though, the more I appreciated it on many levels. Verdict: It is fresh stuff 115 years later, it is very funny, and it deserves classic, not backlist, status.<br />THREE MEN IN A BOAT is classified as fiction but not for the usual reasons.  Had it been written after 1995, say, it would have probably been called creative nonfiction.  What Jerome did was to synthesize many occasions shared with his real life pals into a \\"travelogue\\" of a boating trip taken up the Thames, from Kingston into the Reading area.  This premise offers up countless occasions for mishaps, which Jerome milks for all they are worth. In those moments in which something is not happening, he tells related stories, or performs a stand-up comic riff.  As he and his mates pass landmarks along the river, he offers up historical information, colored of course with his views.  Apparently, England lays claim to Elizabeth I being everywhere much as the eastern United States claims Washington slept in every town.  It is ironic to read his sighs over modern life: if he only knew that urban sprawl had only begun and weather forecasting has not improved that much in a hundred years. In a positively clairvoyant moment, he presages the Antiques Roadshow mania of \\"2000 and odd\\" while speculating if the lowly implements and souvenirs of daily life would become the treasures of the future.  The insights into Victorian preoccupations are priceless.	2004-01-07
US	53041816	R3VH8APJTJO8UD	1400031354	405618230	Tears of the Giraffe (No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency, Book 2)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Another Dazzler	THE NO. 1 LADIES DETECTIVE AGENCY was a rare surprise, an entertaining mystery story written in the graceful voice of literary fiction.  Does its sequel, TEARS OF THE GIRAFFE hold up, now that we know about the surprises?  You bet.  Probably the best compliment that can be paid this novel is that although it is a sequel, it stands on its own quite well.<br />TEARS OF THE GIRAFFE carries on the story of Mma Precious Ramotswe, proprietor of the No. 1 Ladies Detective Agency in Botswanna, Africa.  Once again, Alexander McCall Smith paints an evocative picture of a stable African state that has achieved its independence and modernity after a long journey through colonial rule and early selfhood.  In Mma Ramotswe and her fianc, Mr. J.L.B. Matekoni, Smith has an honest lens on the traditional and emerging cultures that still clash, but are determined to reckon with one another.  This time out, their stories convey not only Africa, but a bemused look at its foil, America, when Mma Ramotswe agrees to go looking for the answer to an American woman's question: why and where did her college-aged son disappear 10 years before.<br />Unlike the first book, which unfolded episodically, this has two strong plot lines from the outset with attendant subplots.  It is to Mr. Smith's credit, that he prefers complications in plot and character rather than red herrings.  He employs both irony and symbolism, but in an almost self-effacing way that make their revelation richer.  He knows when to let the reader laugh and when to ask tricky ethical questions.	2004-01-04
US	53041816	R22TQ8XGLY6F43	0804113599	874381175	Agatha Raisin and the Potted Gardener (Agatha Raisin Mysteries, No. 3)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The sleuth's a winner, the plot is fluffy	I read this at someone else's urging, not being a regular devotee to the mystery genre, and I was pleasantly surprised. Agatha Raisin is delightful, sort of a middle-aged Bridget Jones with brains and business acumen.  She rises above cute kookiness--her feelings and motivations are quite honestly rendered, though one would wish for her sake she would think before she opens her mouth or acts on some occasions.  Most of the pickles she gets herself into are based in her crush on her neighbor, James Lacey, who compares to Mark Darcy of the Bridget Jones books.  When the inevitable murder comes due, she and Lacey manage to work together until they solve the whodunit.<br />Beaton is a witty writer who turns a nice sentence.  She makes satirical hay of the village murder mystery genre and the age-old theme of fish out of water (Agatha has taken early retirement in a Cotswold village, escaping momentarily from a high-powered London job.) The actual mystery is kind of poofy; James quietly nails it early on, but his observation is thrown away.  It is obvious from the getgo who will be murdered, a rather inscrutable character who the author has set up with a variety of conflicting behaviors but never imbues with the psychological resonance that would explain or reconcile the behaviors. In other words, a cartoon. The obligatory red herrings don't fare much better. The villagers more than make up for this lapse in character definition, however.	2003-12-30
US	53041816	R30S8VO09X5QTH	1570613818	202119975	Book Lust: Recommended Reading for Every Mood, Moment, and Reason	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Reading as the new, cool extreme sport	This is a dazzling accomplishment, based as it is on a simple idea that would suggest at best mid-list marketability and having become a big thing. (So is the author's other BIG idea, the \\"What If All of--insert name of city--Read The Same Book?\\" project.)  The author's giddy passion for reading oozes from every page, which moves this from \\"Book List\\" to the appropriate title, \\"Book Lust.\\"  Hundreds of books parade by, grouped by genre or mood or topic or some other connective tissue.  Sometimes, Pearl steps out and spotlights a favorite author, few of which are very widely known.  She makes a reader feel popular, in with the in crowd of book lovers.  She inspires a reader to write her, eager to share one's own recommendations.  <br />There is one criticism.  Pearl really does not give a reader enough information to go on.  She slings some unspecific superlatives (\\"Delicious!\\") on a title and then moves on.  She knows she making suggestions for a diverse audience and is highly democratic: among the authors she spotlights is Lewis Nordan of whose praises I'll sing, too--he's a fine literary novelist out of the South.  But Pearl also heaps equal praise on another writer who is strictly genre, clever but no literary giant.  I kept a long list of titles that sounded interesting, then plowed through Amazon reader reviews to figure out if the books were worthwhile.  I ended up downsizing the list considerably. <br />There are many books that Pearl has left out and that is understandable: she had to stop somewhere.  Chances are hundreds of readers are contacting her right now with notes on what she omitted, and there will be a sequel.	2003-12-22
US	53041816	R2KBQFGJXF8Q81	0140177388	713608567	Cannery Row	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Perfection in a small package	I'm still on a high from reading CANNERY ROW, a good 24 hours after finishing it.  This is a short book that says volumes about humanity and philosophical matters through the perfectly scribed world of bums, drunks, whores, and the workers in stinky sardine factories in the pre-tourism era of Cannery Row, Monterey, CA.  There is an incredible equilibrium to this place, a leveling factor that does not allow anyone to make economic progress, and balances recklessness with goodness, loneliness with community, slapstick comedy with fine-tuned sensitivity. At the heart of the book is the character of Doc, modeled on Steinbeck's best friend, Ed Ricketts, a marine biologist with high tastes in music and literature, a loner by nature who nonetheless lives in concert with his neighbors and takes care of them.  The book begins episodically, introducing sketches of the inhabitants and environment of Cannery Row, then gradually swells with the efforts of Mack and the Palace Flophouse gang to pay their dues to Doc with a party.  The suspense, not to mention the comedy, builds on whether Mack and company's proclivities will cancel out their good intentions.<br />This is a rich book under any circumstances, but if you have read Steinbeck's LOG FROM THE SEA OF CORTEZ, a non-fiction work about a marine biology expedition he and Ricketts took, then you will get an extra layer of experience from CANNERY ROW.  You will spy some funny insider jokes, you will have a fuller exploration of the Steinbeck/Ricketts theme of the interconnectedness of life, and you will marvel again at Ricketts/Doc.  Steinbeck had lived in New York a few years by the time he wrote this book, but you can tell the place and its people were ever present in his heart and mind.	2003-12-12
US	53041816	R2MNGQI45ZUSJT	0872861430	692210339	Motel Chronicles	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Not a major work but it fascinates	MOTEL CHRONICLES was recommended on a website devoted to journal writing.  It is non-sequential and many of the entries have the shape of honed work but all the same it is a good example of a writer's sketchbook, one used for practice and inspiration.  More importantly, it is a window on Shepard's frame of mind in the years immediately following the Pulitzer Prize for BURIED CHILD.  The seeds of later works can be found in this book.<br />The entries swim back and forth from 1978 -1982, mapping the writer's peripatetic movement around the country, mostly in California and the west.  It captures bits of his early identities, military childhood on the move, waiter, cowboy, actor, writer, friend, lover, husband, father.  It is framed by portraits of being a child, the first entry is one of his earliest childhood memories in his mother's arms; the last is the adult caring for a mother felled by a brain aneurysm.  This is no confessional or revealing autobiographical piece, however, just a writer at work pulling out inspiration from experience.  Shepard is highly articulate, his portrayal of the contemporary west is priceless, and his poetry is not bad at all.  The writing has an honest, non-star-turn quality to it.	2003-12-02
US	53041816	R3MNAT4SHND9FR	038572179X	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Melodrama or tragedy? It's in the eye of the beholder	Reviewing ATONEMENT is tricky.  Whether you want to explain why it is wonderful or why you don't admire it, you can easily run afoul of the prime directive of speaking about a book to someone who has yet to read it: you aren't supposed to give away the surprises.  This book is rigged with surprises.<br />What can be said about the story: it begins in 1935, with one fateful weekend at an affluent country house in England where the younger generation runs from ages 9 to 25, and the matriarch is ineffectually absorbed in migraines and the father is absent.  The younger children, led by the precocious Briony, a budding 13-year-old playwright, are putting on a morality play for the young adults, about love and attraction and things they about which the playwright and actors really haven't a clue.  Meanwhile, the young adults are engaging in all those things.  The play gets called off, but Briony continues to impose her vision of reality of these things, and she ends up affecting adult lives dramatically.  The story then moves forward to the war years and finally to the present (1999).<br />This book earned orgasmic praise from America's most estimable literary critics.  What is good about it? The sentences are beautifully rendered.  The characters are drawn knowingly, honestly conceived.  Period detail is well done.  The description of a gifted young writer is very true, and it is not spoiling anything to say that one of the major themes better handled by McEwan is the nature of being a writer.  <br />But . . . . I have some negatives but that would require spoiling surprises.  I can say that because the sentences are so very fluid, the reader overruns the plodding action constantly.  That and while I thought most of the motivations and actions were quite credible, particularly in the 1935 section, the guiding emotion at the center of the book does not seem so real.  For the most part, this story belongs to BBC/Masterpiece Theater melodrama.	2003-11-24
US	53041816	R14YGMHK71YSGI	006019443X	496102452	The Sinister Pig	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Not best in series, but enjoyable	I gave THE SINISTER PIG 4 stars because, hey, it's part of a good series with very likeable characters and it is a page turner.  However, on other accounts it is lacking.  The strength of the Jim Chee/Joe Leaphorn mysteries has been character and cultural setting.  This time out, the story is plot-driven and largely takes place off the Four Corners Navajo reservation.  Much time is spent on the \\"guest star\\" characters and not so much on our old friends.  Thus, there is a thinness to this book despite a plot that starts off ambitiously snuffling up Washington corruption, post 9-11 paranoia, corrupt CEOs, drug smuggling, and other zeitgeist.  <br />The good news is, those who have read earlier entries in the series will be amused to find all of the other regulars finally losing patience with Jim Chee's romantic klutziness and variously taking him aside and essentially saying, look here, the time has come to get on with things.  Also, Hillerman takes what might be his best shot yet at satirizing the bureaucracy.  There is a great scene where the FBI, New Mexico State Police, Bureau of Land Management, DEA, and representatives of at least two other agencies are disputing jurisdiction and who should show up but Homeland Security, insisting on authority over everything and everybody.<br />A last comment: the hardcover edition is riddled with publishing errors, mostly misplaced punctuation.  Isn't proofreading on editorial job descriptions anymore?	2003-11-13
US	53041816	R3SHZZRISULEAZ	0553801589	854651635	The Tail of the Tip-Off: A Mrs. Murphy Mystery	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Whimsical but knowing	If you are fussy about a challenging, intricately plotted mystery that, in the end, is resolved believably, you might not be extremely happy with this novel.  That said, there is much to recommend it to anyone who does not mind that it is a touch fey. (Okay, a lot fey.)  It does a fine job of inhabiting but also commenting on the \\"cozy\\" tradition of mystery writing.  Although she strays over the town line to Charlottesville and the University of Virginia, Rita Mae Brown keeps a lid on the world of Crozet, VA.  This is a world made for the amateur sleuth.  Police procedure and confidentiality are out the window; town gossip is in.  Brown never apologizes for overlooking procedural correctness and in this volume she parodies the \\"cozy\\" convention of the amateur sleuth with a scene in which the cops just invite the whole town to the scene of the crime and gets everyone's two cents.   She also parodies the human sleuthing by giving voice to the pets who come up with the solutions first, but are stymied at how to communicate them to those with opposable thumbs. <br />This book is distinguished by the best non-mystery elements of the series--Crozet and its regulars are a pleasant and often hilarious crowd to hang-out with, and it offers sharp comments on small town Southern social code.  Her obligatory social brawl scene comes early in this story.  There is slapstick. As usual, Brown introduces new characters who are central to the mystery du jour.  One of them is very interesting and you hold out hope that she is neither victim nor perpetrator.  That's another thing Brown is slyly commenting on: the unfortunate, but most realistic vision of the \\"cozy\\" tradition is, the victims and murderers are usually insiders, not mob hitmen or mythically evil serial killers who lucked onto the place.	2003-11-12
US	53041816	REIF8FZN3E9DG	0810160064	981429693	Travels with a Donkey in the Cevennes (Marlboro Travel)	Books	5	40	40	N	Y	Fresh, Delightful	In the late 1870s, Robert Louis Stevenson needed cash to break dependence on his parents so he could go to the woman he loved (and they did not).  A chronic invalid, he also needed adventure.  He decided to do some travel writing and one such trip is recounted in TRAVELS WITH A DONKEY.  He headed off to the remote Cevennes mountain range of south central France and got himself kitted out nicely, so nicely, he needed assistance in carrying everything.  Enter Modestine, a donkey.  He might as well have attempted to harness and pack up a cat.  Thus, to a deft narrative that works in powerful landscape description, sketches of country folk met along the way, and a revisiting of the region's dramatic history, he adds the self-deprecating wit that would become a model for his 20th century counterparts like Peter Fleming, Eric Newby, and Bill Bryson.  Though his commentary moves along at a swift but casual gait, it builds a tension on the upside, beginning with the age-old legend of the murderous Beast of Gevaudan that haunts a neighborhood where he finds the peasantry by turns hostile and friendly and accommodations primitive.  Near the summit, a visit to a monastery introduces the religious theme that will attend his descent into the beautiful land of the Camisards, the friction between Protestants and Catholics that erupted into a tragic civil war in the first decade of the 18th century.  Stevenson does a fine job of sorting out the history and evoking the awe that comes with visiting the deceptively bucolic scene.  No wonder this book has continued to inspire: it often appears on recommended lists and it prompted Romantic biographer Richard Holmes to retrace the journey early in his career, a century later, complete with a donkey of his own (see his book FOOTSTEPS).  The critical introduction to this edition is worthwhile.	2003-10-15
US	53041816	R1UN0YED579M2R	0679728899	28667543	Death Comes for the Archbishop (Vintage Classics)	Books	5	30	32	N	N	Vivid, Surprising, Beautiful	In the early 21st century, Willa Cather is perhaps best remembered for her chronicles of prairie lives, but one of her best works is DEATH COMES TO THE ARCHBISHOP, which depicts the southwest some 300 years after the Spaniards arrived, but barely into its American infancy.  In the 1850s, there are no maps yet, and to the European eye, the landscape is a vast, primitive \\"geometric nightmare.\\"  It is peopled by Mexicans and Native American Indians, and by a few rogue priests who so far from Rome and civilization have built fiefdoms and empires in the desert wilderness.  It has been left so long untouched that Christian legends have grown up and become ancient alongside the lore of the Indians. By turns, the land and its people are hospitable and inspiring, misguided and harsh. <br />In 1848, the church of Rome believes it is time to find a leader who will bring order to this region.  Going against conventional wisdom, the leaders decide on a younger priest, Jean Marie Latour, a Frenchman currently stationed in Michigan, for the task.  The first question that persists through this episodic story is, is he the right person? The book becomes a portrait of his steady cerebral yet compassionate leadership through the chaos he finds and the upheavals of an extraordinary period in history. <br />The movement of the book zigzags among the people, both imagined and real (Kit Carson shows up), and the land.  Especially, it looks at the land as it is shaped by belief-Christian, Indian and political.  Cather does an extraordinary job of creating very vivid, complex characters.  She also describes the land in a way that needs no photographs or maps to build it in our minds.  Her prose is elegiac and yet nearly as clean as Hemingway's.  There is power in it, and just when you think deep into the book that it is a series of sketches, it moves forward in the last part to the later 19th century and reveals how some characters' lives have taken some unexpected yet comprehensible curvesand others were able to hold a course-the suspense was building all the time.  In Latour there is the story of the human vs. the self, nature, other humans, and God.  His personal story reflects the broader array of church and national history.	2003-09-24
US	53041816	R13CYF0EA5QWIT	0312201656	477658660	I Capture the Castle	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Winningly Original	The thing about this book is its unique voice.  Tied up in the first person narrative of a seventeen year old girl keeping a journal so to hone her writing skills, \\"capturing\\" dialogue, character and action is a groundswell of comedy, cultural satire and dramatic irony, not to mention some sharp insights about love and coming of age.  There are whiffs of a number of literary forebears and contemporaries such as Nancy Mitford, William Dean Howells, Shakespeare, P.G. Wodehouse, Stella Gibbons, and Jane Austen, but thanks to the inimitable voice of Cassandra Mortmain, this reads as if it were the first story about mixed up love or sisters whose once well-established family has fallen on sore times.<br />The plot, so much as can be easily and fairly revealed: between the wars in rural Suffolk, the Mortmain family lives in a 13th century ruin of a leaky castle that was somewhat fixed up in the 17th century, with some remuddling by the Victorians. The father is a one-book genius who after an unfortunate moment with a cake knife, the humor of which escaped the judge, entered into writer's block. There have been no residuals from the book in some time.  The household he is not supporting also consists of Cassandra's bohemian stepmother Topaz, Cassandra's older sister Rose, her younger brother Thomas, and Stephen, the orphaned son of their former maid who has a crush on Cassandra and is also the only one in the household who is capable of producing the slightest income.  The women troop about in odd costumes made from disintegrating wardrobes.  For Cassandra, this is simply the way it is, and for Rose, it is a horror from which to escape.  Enter the wealthy American heirs of the recently deceased landlord, two brothers and their family dynamics.  A number of plot lines take off: Will both Rose and Cassandra find true love and with whom? Will father write again? Will Cassandra figure out what makes people tick, an essential component to writing? The plot complications are endless.<br />This is smart, unsentimental, and often very funny. The secondary characters are well-defined and a hoot, too. Highly recommended.	2003-09-15
US	53041816	R3G7ZQPFX1NUMU	0140187448	168292418	The Log from the Sea of Cortez (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	141	144	N	Y	First Rate	John Steinbeck had a high interest in marine biology, one that helped forge an extraordinary friendship with Ed Ricketts in the 1930s.  Ricketts, the model for Doc in CANNERY ROW, was a professional biologist living in Monterey.  He proposed an exploration of the Gulf of California and in the spring of 1940 he and Steinbeck set sail on a rented boat with a colorful crew that should have suggested a sea novel along the lines of CANNERY ROW and TORTILLA FLAT.  The original result from this trip was the book THE SEA OF CORTEZ, which included the \\"log\\" fashioned by Steinbeck and an extensive inventory of the scientific information collected.  It was published in the fall of 1941 and promptly forgotten when Pearl Harbor was struck.  A decade later, the scientific catalogue was removed and Steinbeck added another section, a moving and often hilarious appreciation of his friend Ed Ricketts.  The title became THE LOG FROM THE SEA OF CORTEZ and that's what we have here.<br />This is a great book for the beach, where I read it.  It is filled with the imagery of a warm coastal area.  It is several things, really: a book filled with the wonder and scientific knowledge of marine life, a how-to (and sometimes how-not-to) guide for collecting specimens, a travelogue that captures the wilderness communities of Baja California in its time, and an often hilarious account of staying amused at sea with the likes of a crew with names like Tony, Tex, Sparky and Tiny.  Steinbeck also takes the occasion to explore his own philosophy as inspired by their studies.  Especially interesting is his Easter Day entry, in which he defines and explores at length what he calls \\"teleological\\" and \\"non-teleological\\" thinking.  He gives us much to think about, and does so in clear, fluent prose.  If you pay close attention, you will see him forming the idea for what years later became THE PEARL.<br />One caution: read the critical introduction AFTER enjoying the text.  Like most introductions, it contains some spoilers and it also makes references that are better understood once one is familiar with the material it limns.	2003-09-08
US	53041816	R2A3JHDCZCFLN7	1400034779	405618230	The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency (Book 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Enchanting	Every so often, something comes along that is all new, that makes you fall in love with reading all over again.  This is one of those books.  With a literary grace filled with wit, wonderful characters and intelligence, Alexander McCall Smith introduces how Mma Precious Ramotswe, an independent contemporary woman of Botswana, came to set up her own business, the No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency, and the cases that came her way. <br />The plot is episodic, though a central mystery is built in slyly.  Smith experiments a bit with perspective but mostly sticks to Mma Ramotswe's point of view.  She is in her mid-thirties, a person of generous proportions who catches the eye of more than one man.  There is tragedy in her background, but for the most part she has succeeded in life and uses her intuition well.  She is honest, compassionate and ethical even as she cunningly lays a trap (her rationale for lying in such a situation is hilarious, coming as it does as she is brushing off a border guard).  <br />Most important, in Mma Ramotswe, who was born about the time the country became an independent state, Smith captures the tension that is contemporary Botswana, an African success story that enjoys stability and modern conveniences but is worried about losing tradition in a changing world.  Civilization largely clings to the southern and eastern edges of the country, and beyond that rim is a wide-open, ancient land that holds beauty but sometimes danger, too.  As an admirer concludes, Mma Ramotswe is all the best things of the old and the new Africa.	2003-08-26
US	53041816	R2T3FYK4TRADXJ	0679723692	355141594	Cathedral	Books	5	34	38	N	N	Essential	There are a lot of people out there who want to tell you what to think about Raymond Carver.  Shut the door on them, read CATHEDRAL and make up your own mind.  This is a strong collection of stories; I think it bears comparison to Joyce's DUBLINERS.  Each story is separate from another, but together they build a cohesive vision of the dusky corners of life in the later half of the 20th century. Sure his fiction is littered with alcoholics, divorces, and failure, but he finds the sympathetic quality that keeps you reading.  In terms of structure, he creates a setting and exposition according to conventional rules of story construction, then subverts the climax into the protagonist's interior, so that the action is really about an invisible turning point in a life, when something goes out of it or lanes are switched, when self knowledge is made or lost.  You would think that would mean so many characters stepping up to the plate and getting hit with the same ball, but each story is unique.  The collection has variety and texture; it has heart without sentimentality. The prose is clean and undecorative, but never  sterile. Carver gets it right; he should not be blamed for the plethora of boring contemporary literary fiction that has tried to ape him ever since he took the world's notice.	2003-08-22
US	53041816	R22VKQ7KM2K18P	0061098795	657088689	The Wailing Wind	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Good Old Friends	Hillerman has a formula at work in his Joe Leaphorn/Jim Chee mystery series, and. as time goes on, the smooth coating wears in places here and there and the fundamental structure shows through, a tad naked.  THE WAILING WOMAN is one of those where you can see scattered holes unfilled by character development or cultural background information.  It's not so much that there are inconsistencies in the plotting as there are some implausible motivations and non sequiturs.  Hillerman's usual red herrings aren't running too strong in this stream.  That said, Joe Leaphorn and Jim Chee are good company, so if you like them, this won't disappoint.  This volume does offer a wry tour of bureaucratic land rights issues and injustices that plague the Navajo nation.	2003-08-20
US	53041816	R3QY2FD3ONI3M6	0767908260	61094722	The Island of Lost Maps: A True Story of Cartographic Crime	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Entertaining Exploration of Arcane Subject	Through a lens on the story of a very late 20th century crime, Miles Harvey ambles through several tangent topics related to the arcane subject of antique maps in THE ISLAND OF THE LOST MAPS.  It is a highly readable book that moves the reader along at a clip, plowing through the historical origins of mapmaking, the mythical powers ascribed to them, the power they brought to European discoverers and conquerors, and the power they hold for contemporary collectors.<br />The \\"island\\" of the title is actually a pile of maps stolen from university libraries by one thief, Gilbert Bland, in the mid 1990s.  Sitting in the office of the FBI agent whose job it was to identify the owners, its story provides the most haunting revelations of the book.  Harvey makes the case for the maps' value to our culture, not to mention to the collectors who crave them, and yet many of the libraries that are supposed to be their protectors behave like indifferent foster parents.  The libraries that would prefer inaction to improving security, or even admitting their walls were breached in the first place, are clearly as much a threat to this fragile world heritage as the reckless thief.  <br />Other strengths of the book include Harvey's conversations with the ethical dealers and a collector he calls Mr. Atlas.  Much of the history he offers is a gloss of books like John Noble Wilford's THE MAPMAKERS. Harvey expends a lot of energy but fails to capture the psychology of the map lover. He pushes hard to find out what makes Bland tick, but the thief-cum-convict  resists his entreaties to meet.  I'm not sure that he would have found what he was looking for in Bland, anyway; there is enough evidence to suggest he is a criminal first, an opportunist, who found a market and an easy supply, not to mention a sleepy justice system.	2003-08-13
US	53041816	R2KT10KUVNJGVP	0609608444	517121775	The Devil in the White City:  Murder, Magic, and Madness at the Fair That Changed America	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Moves Like A Freight Train	When US history classes reach the 1890s, they address economic collapse, the labor movement and social reform.  The 1893 Chicago World's Fair usually shows up as a footnote.  As Erik Larson reveals in THE DEVIL IN THE WHITE CITY, it remains an incredible vortex of local, national and global themes of the era, as well as the launch into the 20th century.   Larson chooses to limn the big picture by following two major personal stories, how Chicago architect Daniel Burnham forged the exposition against all odds, and how a serial killer in many ways more lethal than his contemporary, Jack The Ripper, systematically preyed on the public that came to the Fair.  There are many fascinating subplots expertly woven in.  In fact, Larson takes pains in an introductory note to stress that this is a work of non-fiction because it just seems too fantastic to be real at times.  One quality that gives it the fictional feel is Larson's novelistic writing-it pulses with rhythm and vivid imagery.  Another attribute is the detail he offers, one amplified by the 19th century penchant for documentation.  Interestingly, the book bears perhaps 4 illustrations in all, but you feel as if you have seen a coffee table book of photographs by the time you finish because of Larson's descriptive powers.  Air conditioning, search lights, huge structures, exterior electrical lighting, Ferris wheels, shredded wheat, belly dancers, live music piped in from hundreds of miles away--this the stuff of our 21st lives, but when taking the tour with Larson, you share the awe with the original fair-goers.  Chicago, the Fair and Burnham in many ways epitomize both temporal and lasting American experience, while the killer represents an evil that transcends the culture and times he takes advantage of.	2003-08-05
US	53041816	R14GQMJWABG899	0061097853	66914180	The First Eagle	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Spritely, Has That Hillerman Flair	This is a pleasurable entry in the Jim Chee/Joe Leaphorn series.  Though it seems minimalist compared with author Hillerman's earlier achievements in THIEF OF TIME and TALKING GOD, it really has a lot going for it.  It does not cover the folklore in depth as previous volumes have, but it stands on its own as a diverting mystery with interesting characters.<br />Hillerman continues to make use of his own time-honored device to launch two plotlines in THE FIRST EAGLE, one featuring Jim Chee, now Acting Lieutenant on the Navajo reservation police squad, and the other, Joe Leaphorn, former Lietenant in charge, now retired.  Jim Chee has the death of a cop and a suspect he's caught red-handed over the body, and Leaphorn has a missing person's case, his first civilian detecting job.  Hillerman braids the strands together, along with many complications, including research scientists and health officers chasing down sources of contemporary outcroppings of bubonic plague on the reservation.  While it is apparent who at least one bad guy is in the first chapter, the why, what and how unfolds not so easily.  Clues and red herrings mount up entertainingly.  <br />Chee and Leaphorn are nicely sketched, with progressive shading.  Female characters have never been Hillerman's strength, but Louisa, Leaphorn's friend is good company, and the glamorous Janet Pete returns to drive an edginess into Chee's life and the plot.  The bad guys are original but not particularly nuanced.	2003-07-24
US	53041816	R1MVJJRZ8V3DCV	0375751513	317139448	The Picture of Dorian Gray (Modern Library Classics)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Flawed Yet Classic	THE PICTURE OF DORIAN GRAY has enough going for it to retain its classic status for some time to come.  It is loaded with epigrammic sentences by a writer who continues to hold interest.  Its concept was highly original and has inspired generations of science fiction, fantasy and horror literature since its debut.  Wilde stows a lot of his themes and notes on society and character into its pages, so that it often reads like a stack of dispatches from the late 19th century. The dinner party scenes are priceless. It is certainly worth reading  in order to understand why Dorian Gray has entered our language, so often alluded to.<br />While possessing the above traits, the novel does have its flaws that are more pronounced under the glare of contemporary light.  Wilde's bigotry shows through. Some of the passages are melodramatic and wooden. Dorian Gray's physical beauty is a work of art, and as Wilde says at the outset, all art is useless.  However much he embodies many of Wilde's ideas, he remains rather vapid, even when he is at his most corrupt.  Part of that is due to the fact that many of the actions that condemn him are only spoken of or hinted at.  Mostly we see the highlights, the suicide of a young girl to whom he was unjustly cruel and some subsequent deaths.	2003-07-22
US	53041816	R35UEHVE5LBYPF	0156421178	802050474	Homage to Catalonia	Books	4	11	11	N	Y	Engagingly Readable and Essential	Between the World Wars of the 20th century, there was another devastating conflict on European soil that attracted participants from all over.  It was the Spanish Civil War, and while internal dissatisfaction and agitation were breaking out around the country, Spain also became a proving ground for broader political ideologies.  In 1937, George Orwell went as a journalist but the socialist siren song of the promise of bringing about a classless society drove him, as well as others from abroad, to enlist.  He signed up with P.O.U.M., the party for Marxist unification but  quickly learned that there were many similar political parties and labor unions, each with their own woefully unprepared militia, and none were working together against the threat of Franco's military coup and Fascism.  He also found the Communists arriving, not to assist revolution but to thwart it.<br />With a clear eye that catches remarkably prophetic insights into the Spanish future, Orwell manages to sort out the chaos of who's who, and the nuances of war that are sometimes awful, sometimes fertile ground for wry humor.  Although the voice of the narrative is in memoir form, Orwell was writing only from a distance of 5 or 6 months after he escaped. The book is remarkable for the immediate eye-witness account of the turn of fortunes in Barcelona and the objective sorting out of events that were not being accurately recorded in the media.  Orwell expresses deep respect for the native Spanish character, even when some of its inefficient tendencies produce frustration.<br /><br />My edition, which I purchased here last year, but which looks different from the cover above, offers an introduction by critic Lionel Trilling written in 1952, two years after Orwell's death from TB.  It, too, is also a historical document now, preserving the sense of the ruling emotions of the era.	2003-07-08
US	53041816	R28LNQDPVYQKBG	0380713802	280023223	Neither Here nor There: Travels in Europe	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Vintage Bryson In Europe	NEITHER HERE NOR THERE is one of Bryson's earlier travel books, conceived somewhere around 1991.  It is a tour of Europe, excluding Spain, Portugal, and Greece.  Bryson's method of operation is to steer clear of tours and find lodging and food as needed; his planning is in maps and cultural background reading.  He travels by foot, train and bus.  This formula produces more winning museum visits and views than desirable rides,lodging and food, but he is not a glass half empty kind of guy.  He voices his opinion about bad food and attitudes but he is generous with praise when it is deserved.  <br />There is much to enjoy in this book: Bryson's style of humor, often bratty and tear-inducing in its hilarity, is full throttle.  While it is not a muse or a sentimental journey, his travels coincide with the 1973 itinerary of his hitchhiking days with pal Steven Katz, the memorable sidekick from A WALK IN THE WOODS.  Bryson sprinkles this book with memories and lessons learned from that first foray.  The one thing NEITHER HERE NOR THERE lacks is the degree of information with which he packs his later books, particularly IN A SUNBURNED COUNTRY.  As he sets off in Paris, he visits a musty old bookstore called Shakespeare &amp; Company and says nothing--c'mon, Bryson, think Hemingway, Fitzgerald, Stein, Joyce!  He does get better as he gets into the trip, though, and refuses to let Austria and Kurt Waldheim off the hook for their roles in World War II.<br />One last note: it is interesting to see Europe before the Euro and Sarajevo and Belgrade in that sliver of time between the fall of the Berlin Wall and the devastation of the 1990s. This book is at once very contemporary (American fast food chains everywhere) and yet historic.	2003-06-30
US	53041816	R4O05NT2WA2QQ	0767903862	430278994	In a Sunburned Country	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Bryson's A Great Guide	Bryson delivers the world's biggest, best kept secret in IN A SUNBURNED COUNTRY.  Australia is a truly miraculous place.  This is a country where a prime minister impetuously dives into the water while strolling on the beach with colleagues, never to be seen again, where the world's most lethal and otherwise poisonous species are concentrated in mind boggling numbers above and beyond the rest of the planet, where the ecosystem is the most diverse of any, where the ores and minerals have yet to be tapped for anything near their full potential, where the features of the landscape vary dramatically, with no look-alikes anywhere else. The world's largest living organism is there-the Great Barrier Reef; also, the world's oldest living organisms, stromatolites. It is the last continent to be colonized by Europeans, and then it was used as a penal colony at first, and as a nation it is barely a century old.  It was been the scene of wretched racism and maltreatment of natives; more recently, it has chosen to throw the doors open to all nationalities.  And does any of this make it to American news media? Noooo. There's lots to learn from this country and Bryson is an informative guide. In the manner honed in his earlier travel books, he imparts an amazing amount of information thoughtfully, in graceful, witty prose that evokes all the eccentricities and ironies of this mysterious, ancient place.  Bryson is happy to tell the jokes, but in the end, he is much happier imparting the wonder.	2003-06-16
US	53041816	R2M3CH42Z42WY4	0140057293	509100733	No Castles on Main Street	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Pleasurable reading, 5 stars; Usefulness as is, 4 stars	In the 1970s, Stephanie Kraft packed up her family and traveled the country visiting the sites of homes of 30 American authors who lived from the late 18th to the mid-20th century.  The resulting book, NO CASTLES ON MAIN STREET, is a fine collection of essays on places that influenced the writers who lived in them.  Kraft has a Ph.D. in literature and is a freelance writer, and she marries crtiical readings of the authors' works and lives with a graceful knack for description.  She offers a tour of the houses as she found them. The majority of the writers are recognizable as belonging to the American canon; some names have lost visibility as we've entered the 21st century but Kraft makes a strong case for their validity. <br />As for usefulness, having not been revised in over 20 years, the guide to house museums and parks is no longer reliable.  While the  pleasure in reading the essays is unsurpassed, and while the perspective is original and rekindles interest in some aspects of these writers and their works that may be lost to footnotes, most of the information is no longer groundbreaking for scholars or biographers.  The black and white photographs have darkened in the aged paperback edition, too.	2003-06-03
US	53041816	R38OOCKDFQNIHT	0670032131	987829512	The Quality of Life Report	Books	3	30	34	N	Y	Well crafted, but mixed signals	Like other readers, I pounced on this the minute it was published because I admire Daum's first book, the essay collection titled MY MISSPENT YOUTH.  Like other readers I find THE QUALITY OF LIFE REPORT somewhat problematic.  My biggest problem is its strength: I found its unapologetic lessons on living with the choices we make in life dispiriting.  The critics who recommend it commend its comic dimensions, which are there, but the projectory of the protagonist's experience in dumping the unaffordable life of Manhattan for the affordable life of a prairie town in the Mid-West is sodden with dramatic irony, not big laughs. HOUSE OF MIRTH and SISTER CARRIE came to mind, not VANITY FAIR or anything Austen. While the book does not end tragically, it lacks the life affirmation that should come in the end of a novel labeled &quot;comic.&quot;  Another problem is, the comedy is supposed to turn on the contrast between the Manhattanite-Ralph Lauren vision of the country life and what country life and folk really are, but there isn't enough on the Manhattan side, other than yearning references to space, affordability, Willa Cather, Sam Shepard, and Jessica Lange movies to balance the messy and ultimately undefined reality of the country.<br />This is well crafted and, in true Daum fashion, well-observed. There are comic elements. If the book suffers from any one thing, it is that it plays too much by the workshopped rules of contemporary American literary fiction which tend to keep writers sitting on their hands.  There should be more anger, more outright hilarity, the rhythm should be punchier.<br />One last problem with this story:  knowing that Daum makes no apologies for mining her own life for her work, knowing that she did move to Nebraska and wrote some essays for an e-zine that translated directly into the fiction, I have to ask, did she really live out this entire story? Was she really that dumb about the guy? I want her to be as smart as her sentences.  Not all vision has to come from the school of hard knocks and bad choices.	2003-05-26
US	53041816	R2HD7QT9DU2C86	1567921485	12085571	London Perceived	Books	5	23	23	N	Y	Cultural Archeology At Its Best	Forty-one years ago, V.S. Pritchett went looking for what makes London itself.  He wrote this before McDonald's arrived, just before the Beatles and 007 put it on the world's pop map, just as cranes were setting out the beams for glass and steel skyscrapers.  Much has happened in the interim, but what Pritchett found explains not only its past but its future.  He makes neat work of reconciling the many ironies in a place that reinvents itself every so often without much of a plan, but which also hangs onto traditions, ways of being and a passion for order.  This is a tour of neighborhoods, but also of centuries and the historical events and personages that have contributed to the city's enduring character.  It moves seamlessly between the concrete image and the abstract idea.  Pritchett's prose is crystalline, his insights spooky at times (he describes those new skyscrapers as having a &quot;smashable impermanence&quot; to them).  The photographs by Evelyn Hofer are haunting.  There will always be a London. This should be required reading for visitors to that city.	2003-05-19
US	53041816	R2JZS5GZO9EKXF	0860721469	188442614	A Sultry Month	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Too good to let go out of print	If you've read THE IMMORTAL DINNER by Penelope Hughes Hallet, than you absolutely have to read A SULTRY MONTH by Alethea Hayter.  If you have any interest in 19th century British literature and history, or just enjoy well written history with narrative sweep, you must read A SULTRY MONTH.  <br />The month of the title begins 18 June 1846 and ends some 4 weeks later in July, during a record heat wave in London.  During this month, the Corn Laws are repealed, Prime Minister John Peel loses his job, Elizabeth Barrett and Robert Browning plot their elopement, Dickens is setting to work on Dombey and Son, the Carlyles quarrel almost to the point of divorce, Wordsworth still insists on physical activity despite ageing joints, there are dinner and breakfast parties hosting a number of writers and other artists, and then, early in the month, painter Benjamin Robert Haydon, who had given the &quot;immortal dinner&quot; in 1819 in flusher days, commits suicide.  This being a time when people kept claptrap journals and wrote detailed letters daily, and, importantly, they preserved these documents, Hayter had reams of material from which she could sketch immediate and personal scenes across the month.  In the end we have an extraordinary collage that imparts the sensibility of early Victorian England and the preoccupations of its intellectuals.	2003-05-13
US	53041816	R10XZKCUCDB9XJ	0595132456	341391359	The Powells.com Interviews: 22 Authors and Artists Talk About Their Books	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great Conversation	When writers stop by Powells, a large, independent bricks and mortar bookstore in Portland, Oregon, to read and sign books, employee Dave Weich interviews them for Powells.com, the Internet side of the business.  Weich does his homework, reading (and comprehending) each author's works in advance and skillfully drawing them into discussion.  The results are highly engaging, informative conversations that compare to Terry Gross's interviews on NPR.  This volume gathers 22 interviews that largely took place in 1999 and 2000.  It is interesting to read a rather prophetic exchange with David Brancaccio about e-commerce that took place before the bubble burst, or to check in on Helen Fielding between the Bridget books.  Pico Iyer has some cogent observations on globalization, while Bill Bryson, William Least Heat Moon, and Paul Theroux talk about travel and place. Weich is a charming host who gets his guests to reveal the realities of publishing and how they got started in addition to talking about how they create.  This is time spent pleasurably and money very well spent--the proceeds benefit the Literacy Volunteers of America.	2003-04-15
US	53041816	R3F51ZYIC6ZPIT	037550835X	937025874	The Optimist's Daughter: A Novel	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Quietly Epiphanic	If you have long wondered what the fuss about Eudora Welty is all about, read THE OPTIMIST'S DAUGHTER, the 1973 Pulitzer Prize-winner for fiction.  This is no peripheral achievement but the heart of the Welty experience.   As you begin reading it, you would describe it as a spare, quiet character study.  By the time you finish it--the prose is sleek and straightforward, you glide through it--you are flipping back, realizing the profundities it has kicked up all the way through, hoping you did not miss anything.  It is the story of Laurel McKelva Hand, fortysomething widow, who has flown back to the south from her career life in Chicago to be at her father's side as he copes with a medical emergency.  It is obvious that she has come because the trophy wife/stepmother, Fay, is not considered up to the task by anyone else's standards.  The first part of the novel ends with the judge's death; the second part moves back into the Mississippi house where Laurel grew up for her father's funeral.  Here Welty introduces the town folk who hold her father and late mother in high esteem, who regard Fay as a white trash outsider nuisance.  Fay reminds everyone that she gets all the property, everything they all view as belonging to the deceased parents and the grown daughter. The first two parts could easily translate to the screen or stage; the last two would be more difficult because Welty turns inward, helping Laurel sort out memory, loss, and what it spells for her future. The power of the book lies in how it twists and turns through the four characters--Laurel, her parents, and Fay--moving around the tensions between them until a full sense of the truth is located. What you first know about Laurel and Fay will be challenged.  Neither is simple, nor is the story.	2003-04-09
US	53041816	R8YT4ZO1G1MKC	0316096199	784206304	Lucky	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Engaging, Brilliant, Informative	LUCKY, a memoir of a rape and its aftermath by Alice Sebold, author of THE LOVELY BONES, is a remarkable piece of writing. Twenty-two years ago, the legal and health systems were not attuned to the rape victim and were positioned to make a terrible situation even more dehumanizing. Sebold was lucky, she was told, that the rapist left physical damage to back up her claims, that she was a virgin going into the experience and thus to be accorded more respect, that she wasn't in the same place some days before-in a park near her college campus-when another young woman was raped and killed. Sebold reports the events of the rape in unswerving, unsensational journalistic fashion at the outset of the book. From there she shares something of her childhood in suburban Philadelphia, to help the reader understand who she was and how that helped shape what happened next after the rape, the impact on her family, friends and college community, and on her own choices. Woven in and out of the narrative is the story of how Sebold encounters her attacker on the street months later and pursues him through the legal system. One of the shocking discoveries she makes is how unusual she is in that pursuit; most women were defeated in the process or did not have the wherewithal to initiate it. Sebold probably would not describe herself as courageous, but it becomes apparent, the further you read into the book, that she is very courageous on many levels. She is also downright likeable, though she isn't asking the reader to like her.<br />It is also apparent that even if our health, emergency, college safety departments, municipal police services, and judicial systems have grown more sensitive to the rape victim in recent years, there remains the problem of how the victim and the people around her make sense and make progress after the event. Emotionally, Sebold was left very much on her own, and while she marches forward, graduating from college on time, accumulating some typical college experiences along the way, it is with some surprise years later that the internal healing process had really yet to begin. As she heads into recovery, Sebold closes the door to outside scrutiny and that's okay: she has already given us what we really need to know.	2003-04-07
US	53041816	RH6CHCR5JVHCU	0316781266	704361388	The Last Time They Met: A Novel	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Gotcha!	As its title implies, Anita Shreve's novel is about a couple with a past.  The first clever thing Shreve does is present their story backwards, beginning when the man and woman are age 52, both successful poets, meeting again after 26 years at a literary festival, picking up rather easily, all things considered.  The story then moves to them at age 26, meeting after a gap of 9 years, in Africa of all places; they pick up again rather easily, despite all the hints of a mad teenage love affair rendered apart by some car accident, despite the fact that both of them are married to others.  Along the way, tragedies in their lives are alluded to, and you have to wonder, what is it about this specific accident that makes all this melodrama and tragedy, not to mention some inconsistencies and odd effects, make sense?  Well, you do find out, in the very last paragraph of the book.  That's the second clever thing Shreve does, produce a very late, very surprise ending that turns everything on its ear at the same time it repulses any criticisms about content that may seem accidental or inconsistent.  Gotcha!<br />Darn clever, but is it art?  It is literate, a rare pleasure in this world, but is it literary? Genuine art, or literary fiction, must tell the truth.  Well, this is &quot;well-observed,&quot; it creates its own world and keeps a lid on it.  That said, there are times when you question the motivations, reactions and choices made by the hero and heroine, aspects that are not necessarily resolved by that final moment.  Also, for all of Shreve's tightly controlled sentences, the language within sometimes echoes romance novel conventions.  Tears rise &quot;unbidden.&quot;  The bedroom scenes especially do not rise above conventions.  The book is absolutely humorless in the way that popular melodrama can be.  The main characters are sympathetic and pleasant to be with, the African scenery is rendered well, and there are questions to puzzle out.  Ultimately, though, to be good literature, a book just can't kick up the questions, it has to answer them responsibly, and Shreve's work doesn't quite hold up that end of the bargain.	2003-03-31
US	53041816	R2NGM94X77IN1C	0271021845	826237948	Down the Susquehanna to the Chesapeake	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Excellent Reading	It should come as no surprise that I would pick up DOWN THE SUSQUEHANNA TO THE CHESAPEAKE since I live within a few blocks (and, gratefully, a few feet above the flood plain) of the beautiful Susquehanna River. However, I read it not because I heard about it from local sources but because the estimable literary critic, Jonathan Yardley of the Washington Post, named it as a top non-fiction book of 2002, a competitive year for quality publishing.  In other words, this book is that good and I recommend it not only to fellow citizens of the huge watershed that feeds the river but to everyone.  <br />Author Jack Brubaker reminds me of John McPhee as he deftly corrals a considerable volume of information on both natural and human history into a fine narrative.  The Susquehanna offers universal lessons in the human effect on our waters and the effect of the waters on humans.  The river is an important feature in Pre-Columbian cultures in North America and its European contacts go all the way back to 1588.  Settlements as far north as Northumberland were originally considered as possible sites for our nation's capital.  The river is an often ironic education in the development of American commerce and the Industrial and technological revolutions.  It is the seat of Three Mile Island, the victim of Hurricane Agnes, the source of our drinking water, the playground of sportsmen, and, down river, the power behind major electrical companies.  It is at once strong and fragile, feeding yet threatening the Chesapeake Bay.  Its obvious non-navigability has frustrated developers for nearly four centuries now, though someone in Congress decided to have it declared navigable.  There are thousands of stories to tell and Brubaker pulls together the most representative in a lucid trip from the headsprings to the Susquehanna's actual submerged mouth at the edge of the Atlantic.	2003-03-27
US	53041816	R1HFD2NBVEI93F	1561310719	742223217	The Immortal Dinner: A Famous Evening of Genius and Laughter in Literary London, 1817 (New Amsterdam)	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Wonderful!	On 28 December 1817, London painter Benjamin Robert Haydon gave a dinner party that he meticulously recounted in his journal.  He called it &quot;The Immortal Dinner&quot; because the guest list, tone of conversation, wit and good time had by all fulfilled his vision of a good life lived at the forefront of high culture.  The title could have lived on as a conceit in a footnote, except for Penelope Hughes-Hallet's resurrection of it and the event as a lens through which to view close-up the lifestyle, major players, watershed historical events and zeigeist of the era. This is an original approach to this kind of history, and while it does not necessarily reveal any startlingly new information, it refreshes it, making it vivid and accessible.  Hughes-Hallet has a way with ordering her information, as well as a fluent writing style, and the result is a very enjoyable read.  Haydon is a memorable character, a person of some talent and vision, whose ego, bad timing and money management woes blunted so many would-be successes.  While he made enemies, he also made good friends, and his dinner companions included John Keats, Charles Lamb and William Wordsworth.  Though all the characters are well developed, it is Wordsworth who quietly forms a keystone, much as he did in the quintet of major Romantic poets, throughout the book, the elder statesman who long outlives them all.  I wish this had been around when I was taking British Romantic Lit in college; it would have made excellent sidebar reading.	2003-03-05
US	53041816	R3IUOSQBJBBE55	0385470193	947589423	The 99% Fat-Free Cookbook (99% Fat-free Series)	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Original, Flavorful, Not &quot;Diet&quot;	I had this book, gave it away in a generous moment.  After borrowing it from the library, I've decided I need a copy to keep. The reasons why: the food is original, flavorful; the preparation ranges from easy to moderate; the ingredients can be had in just about any supermarket; it is healthful, but you'd never know it.  The turnip gratin is outstanding--I've served it and other recipes from this book to guests.  It makes very simple substitutions for fat--buttermilk is used frequently.  Corn syrup is used to maintain texture in some of the baked confections. <br />Why it merits 4, not 5, stars:  There are only 125 recipes and the only nutritional data offered is the fat gram count.	2003-03-03
US	53041816	R25DJHQIUJRMV0	0486247155	754816081	Picasso (Dover Fine Art, History of Art)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Stein and Picasso: ..., Getting Modernism: Priceless	In this epochal gem originally published in London in 1938, Gertrude Stein tells of the arrival and rise of Picasso, and through him, Modernism and the 20th century, filtered through her own performance art.  By \\"filtered\\" I am not suggesting that it is fiction or distorts its subject; in fact, it's a live action postcard from the epicenter of the man and movement.  Not only does it inform with fact, it informs with form.<br />Stein says with characteristic self assurance that she alone understood Picasso and compared what he did in art to what she did with words, and there is merit in the comparison.  Picasso, influenced by the Spaniards, came to believe that truth existed in the conceptual realm, it did not come from the material world.  Whereas proceeding generations accepted what they saw before them as truth and responded realistically, Picasso chose to portray his inner vision on canvas and backed away from using models.  Cubism became his way of signifying how he experienced the significance of the still life or human form.  A person, a tableau was not perceived as the whole but as parts, some of them standing out more prominently than others.  Similarly, Stein orders her information according to emphasis, with her characteristic tic of repetition--remember, this is the person who gave us lines like \\"A rose is a rose is a rose\\" and \\"there is no there, there.\\"<br />Stein does not overindulge herself, however, and imparts a generous amount of lucid thought on how Picasso created and from what and whom he drew his influences.  She progresses chronologically through his periods-the blue, the rose, the harlequin, Cubist, calligraphic, etc., up to the point she was writing. This plus salient insights into society, war, creative artists and the 20th century in general make the volume quite a deal in a small package.	2003-02-14
US	53041816	R387GTYX5KR0PJ	0864427654	80753781	Love And War in the Apennines	Books	5	35	36	N	Y	Extraordinary	During World War II, the rural citizens of northern Italy vowed to assist Allied soldiers on the run in their mountainous region.  They were operating on an informed heart, on the Golden Rule, wanting to give aid to those who opposed the hated Fascists and Nazis as they would hope someone would help their own sons.  And while the Allies were protected by the Geneva Convention should they be captured, the citizens were not and they were subject to less humane punishment, sometimes torture and death, if their actions were found out.  But they did it anyway.  It is these people, who otherwise lived a pastoral, ancient way of life, whom travel writer extraordinaire Eric Newby profiles in his memoir, LOVE AND WAR IN THE APENNINES.<br />Those familiar with Newby's other books will find his signature wit, self-deprecating humor and descriptive powers at work here, but his  curiosity and appreciation of other people and cultures is in highest gear.  He comes to meet the peasantry of northern Italy after fleeing a prison during the chaos following the ouster of Mussolini in September 1943.  He is helped by a succession of individuals and families, including the woman who would become his wife and companion in later adventures, the estimable Wanda.  The book ends with his unfortunate recapture by the Germans and in an epilogue he revisits the people who took him in ten years after.<br />Newby is a hugely gifted writer, his sentences are knowing and clear as a bell.  He orders information rhythmically, always knows when less is more and more is more.  He never bows to sentimentality, never sells anyone out. He does a remarkable job of expressing the fear and dispiritedness that politics and war heave on a people, at the same time revealing their resilience.  There is much to admire in this book.	2003-02-12
US	53041816	R9294L26B8JVU	060960712X	909577386	Big City Junk	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	Not Your Typical Style Book	BIG CITY JUNK, which was probably in production on September 11, 2001 (it arrived in bookstores a couple of months later), carries a special resonance because of the events of that day.  What would otherwise be a lark of a style book appealing to the collectibles crowd becomes a small shrine as well for a piece of the New York lifestyle and psyche.  In the course of celebrating the cast aside and disposable, Mary Randolph Carter, the author and photographer caught a lasting, brave, prophetic comment about fear and city living rendered in the temporal medium of a sidewalk chalk message.  But she is also onto something else that is so very much a part of the economy and ecology of the city: the cycle of &quot;stuff&quot; in a population intensive, small place.  The sociological angle raises this volume in Carter's Junk series above the others.  <br />This is not to say the book isn't fun.  It is fun.  And it is very fair: Carter gives very specific information about how much things cost (or don't) and where they were found.  She provides lists of flea markets and thrift shops in the major metropolitan areas she covers.  Her method is to focus on individual collectors in locales like New York, San Francisco and LA, profiling how they find their stuff and what they do with it.  <br />Like a novelist who succeeds in creating a world and staying true to it, Carter has established a vision that makes junk matter.  I need open, less cluttered surfaces in my own environment, but when I read the Junk series, I can certainly enjoy that collectible urge.	2003-02-07
US	53041816	R3G7PK4VKM5FX7	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	5	24	28	N	Y	It Earns The Hype	I know some people who did not get past the first 70 pages or so, and I can see why:  at first there is a seeming dispassion about the narrative voice and the tension builds slowly at first.  It gains momentum and pulls you in, however, to the point that you will stay up long past a reasonable bedtime on a weekday night to see it through to the end.  And if you are the least bit prone to reacting to a book emotionally, well, you will be reacting.  It crosses age and gender barriers in its appeal.  It is easy to see why it continues to float on the bestseller list.<br />What slowed me down at first was what I thought was its singular plot line; then I realized that each character forms his/her own subplot and their individual projectiles weave about the story like so many contrails streaking and crossing around the sky.  Sebold is to be commended for the risks she takes in an age when few take artistic risks in literary and popular fiction.  If some don't like her choices, well tough, she was courageous to try and I like that.  Her biggest risk was to find life affirmation amidst the tragedy-a 14-year-old disappears, the victim of rape and a gruesome murder, her body never found-without undercutting the undeniable changes it wreaks in the lives of those left living and the sadness of a life frozen at age 14.  The balance she strikes is remarkable.	2003-01-24
US	53041816	R22D9O42G7U5ZL	1558670319	828005857	The 9 X 13 Pan Cookbook (Nitty Gritty Cookbooks)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Good Concept; Solid But Unexciting Results	The idea of bringing together recipes calling for the 9 x 13 pan every house has or should is a stroke of genius.  After all, those are the recipes we need when planning for a potluck or a houseful over the holidays. <br />In execution though, I find the recipes disappointing. In part, it's just a little too loving-hands-at-home, really more a collection of recipes clipped from here and there or borrowed from friends, like a community fundraiser cookbook.  There really is nothing created with a trained chef's flair and knowledge.  Flavor is often blunted.  I tried the Chilies Con Queso out on the office staff and was asked for the recipe, but personally I found the chilies to disappear under all that cheese and milk. Bland. The date bars seemed like a real find because they do not call for any fat (just use a lot of eggs), but they need spice to wake them up. (All the same, someone asked for that recipe as well.) There are a lot of add-a-can-of-soup recipes--I keep hoping those will be buried retroactively in a 1950s time capsule where they belong.<br />These recipes have potential, they just need to be deconstructed, renovated . . . in other words, you might be just as well off gathering all your favorite clippings of 9 x 13 pan recipes into a binder and making your own book.	2002-12-20
US	53041816	R3FF2RE627VHW8	0679443673	642182881	Auden: Poems (Everyman's Library Pocket Poets Series)	Books	5	31	31	N	Y	Pleasurable Volume	Auden reaches the general public in a way most poets, especially contemporary literary poets, fail. His themes, language, rhythm, imagery and form are no less brilliant for being understood. So many of his pieces reach across decades to contemporary experience, and most general readers come to his anthologies having heard one of his poems used effectively in contemporary media. Everyone who saw \\"Four Weddings and a Funeral\\" fell in love with \\"Funeral Blues,\\" which was read in the funeral scene. This volume has it.<br />His poem \\"September 1, 1939\\" circulated widely, especially via e-mail, as the anniversary of September 11 came around, is also attracting new interest. Unfortunately, that particular work is not included in this collection. All the same, it is a fine sampling of what Auden did across a long and prolific career. The edition has a nice physicality--a well produced hardcover, at a bargain price--perfect for leaving on the bedside or on an occasional table. This is poetry in an accessible package made for reading. It makes a good gift.	2002-12-20
US	53041816	RYU3HH1E49Z8R	0670894435	161317772	Virginia Woolf (Penguin Lives)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Woolf and Bloomsbury 101: Pleasurable Reading	VIRGINIA WOOLF by Nigel Nicolson departs from the template used by the Penguin Lives series so far as I've read down the list. It cannot claim that its subject exists in obscurity behind clouds of legend or of lack of existing documentation. Woolf was a public person in her life time, she left not only a respectable body of work but an extensive collection of letters, essays and journals. She has been the subject of substantial, well received biographies and is also featured prominently in profiles of Bloomsbury, the Hogarth Press and biographies of her contemporaries. This volume is also distinguished from others in the Penguin Lives Series in that it was written by the son of Woolf's female lover, Vita Sackville-West; in other words, someone close to the inner circle. Woolf belongs to the visitable past. The book remains, however, a fine member of the Series because of its skill in purveying the whole through a spritely revisiting of the significant passages in Woolf's life. Nicholson writes with warmth and holds forth his opinions in controversial areas, but he is impressively objective given his relationship with his subject and those closest to her. Nicolson manages to capture all the ambiguities of the woman, makes them comprehensible, honest and, sparingly, poignant.	2002-12-12
US	53041816	R1CJQIQ08GZBAR	044021162X	325825553	Close Quarters	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Character deserves 5 stars; plot, 2.	Toward the end of CLOSE QUARTERS, the heroine, Nina Fischman, observes that she is long on character, short on plot.  Therein you have the key to this book.  Nina, a housing authority lawyer in Manhattan who is single and nearing forty, is funny and intelligent; especially, she is very witty without indulging in the annoying wisecracks that other mystery writers think are so darn cute and stand in for character.  Nina is genuinely nice, not abrasive. She is very real, the product of a working class Jewish family and a state university education.  In CLOSE QUARTERS, she engages in a very New York tradition of the communal summer beach rental, this one on Fire Island, a social institution she sends up by merely describing it as it is.  It is a setting peopled with types who beg to be murdered.<br />The plot is about as thin as you can get.  There is a single dead body that turns up early and without fanfare, and our heroine really does not get around to sleuthing until four-fifths through the book.  Since this book is long on character, we know who did not do it and who has motive and the killer instinct long before the characters get to it.  Police procedure is out the window, in fact, so are the police for that matter.  We are told, we do not see that people are questioned.  Forget forensics; the beach house and murder scene are not cordoned off and the remaining housemates continue their summer activities inhibited only by inclement weather.  <br />If you leave out the murder mystery, you still have a satisfying book.  In fact, it might have been more satisfying if there had been no attempt to make it a crime novel; instead, with a little more energy put into the dynamics of the beach rentals, it could have been a wickedly comic novel.  Nina is a pleasure to spend time with and the phone conversation with her mother is priceless.  This book stands alone quite well; I understand it is part of a series but there is no sense that the author expects you to read the rest of it to get what's going on here.	2002-11-15
US	53041816	R1K9GL9ECS1DYS	0553107445	940167612	Catch as Cat Can	Books	4	4	4	N	N	It takes a village	CATCH AS CAT CAN and the entire Mrs. Murphy series belong to the \\"cozy\\" school of murder mysteries. \\"Cozy\\" refers to setting in mystery genre and Crozet, Virginia, an actual place, is certainly conceived in the tradition of the pleasant English village. Even with a body count that would rival some violent inner city neighborhoods, the author makes it irresistible, evoking the beautiful western Virginia countryside through natural seasonal imagery. The series' regular human and animal characters are appealing. It is for them and the setting that you go back to this series when in need of something disposable, the storylines and some of the characterizations having become increasingly simple, almost irrelevant over the series' development. You also go back for the satire on new South/old South values and mores. As Brown observes, it would not be a proper Southern social event if someone did not get drunk or a fight did not break out--in tuxedoes and designer dresses. Brown plays with the genre as well: less confident writers worry about making realistic circumstances by which the amateur sleuth becomes involved and solves the mystery. Not here: Crozet is a place where the sheriff feels beholden to first inform the reigning social matriarch of every development and depends upon the gossip lines and family pets to get the job done. Procedure? Never heard of it. Sly irony keeps this series afloat, saves it from the saccharine.	2002-11-11
US	53041816	R2DYPHZKZG0E0J	076790690X	403402516	The Vegetarian 5-Ingredient Gourmet: 250 Simple Recipes and Dozens of Healthy Menus for Eating Well Every Day	Books	4	114	121	N	N	Serviceable, Prosaic	I don't think I was quite the right audience for this cookbook-for me, it rated a 3; but for the right person, it's a 4.<br />The right person for this book is seeking a way to make regular, balanced vegetarian (ovo-lacto) weeknight meals on the fly, who wants tried and true fare.  Much is made of canned goods, dried herb blends, bottled salsa and salad dressings, frozen corn, and like ingredients that are easily found in supermarkets.  This is strictly family food, not party impressive, with an eye on the fact that kids may be in the mix.  There is little to chop, mostly there is throwing together in one pot or bowl.  Menu suggestions are offered here and there, as well as basic helpful hints.<br />I need more originality and flavor than this book offers.   The helpful hints are very basic.  I appreciate the menu suggestions--I'm still learning about what goes with what in a vegetarian meal--but they were not consistently available.  A different editor might have caught some inconsistencies in the text.  An example:  for the Split Pea and Barley Soup, there is a helpful hint on the same page on which it appears that reads something like, &quot;Sometimes I like to add rice or barley to the Split Pea and Barley Soup (page 'x').&quot;  Well, yes, you might like to add barley since it is called for and yes, it is on page 'x', the same page you are reading at the moment.  If you choose to do rice, do you substitute it for the barley? It does not elaborate.	2002-10-15
US	53041816	R1YQJR1MJN7HWI	0140115765	52100239	Utz	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Interesting Literary Exercise	UTZ has much going for it.  Chatwin packs a lot into a short novel:  portraits of a Communist state in its waning years and a man caught in material obsession.  Chatwin has a winning way with storytelling, well drawn images just fall off his pen and what might seem a boring concept moves swiftly and holds interest.  It is the story of Kaspar Utz who through most of the violent world-changing events of Europe in the 20th century, builds an extraordinary collection of porcelain figurines, a collection he improves on even while living in Prague where personal property is prohibited.  Allowed yearly visits to Vichy ostensibly for his health, Utz makes purchases on the sly and smuggles them back.  The aforementioned ambiguities are opened like a can of worms in these trips to Vichy: Utz could defect but does not.  It is there, in a place of freedom and plenty, he makes the key observation that luxury is only luxurious under adverse conditions.  The mysteries swirl up around him: why does he give up the opportunity to escape Communism, what happens to the collection, and what is the nature of his relationship with a woman who lives as a servant in his apartment? In the mid - late 80's, Chatwin's unnamed narrator returns to Prague to sort out the questions long after Utz's death, coming to some unpredictable conclusions.<br />UTZ was a tad problematic for me.  It is different from the other of Chatwin's books I've read; it does not compare to THE SONGLINES, which I adored.  It is intentionally fraught with so many ambiguities that I'm not sure I really \\"got\\" it all.	2002-09-30
US	53041816	R2KHNXVRAVDYGF	0670882380	545983925	Mozart(Penguin Lives)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Mozart's A Delight and Gay's Got Him	The Penguin Lives series continues to serve me well as I rebel against the opposing current of plodding steamer trunk-sized biographies.  In under 200 pages, the Penguins neatly shake off obscurity and/or legends that have grown up around a significant life and tell its story neatly, in light of the individual's environment and enduring contributions to culture.  <br />Peter Gay's Mozart is a good example of the series' strength.  The narrative flows gracefully, allowing Mozart's character to come out in full.  As Gay says, his genius was special in many ways: he built on an early precocity; he did not live in a garret, he was popular in his own time, he participated in a community of peers rather than in a vacuum.  Mozart's life has been clouded in legend and Gay makes it his business to sift out the truth.  Sometimes the truth dovetails with the tales, as in being booted in the rear by Count Arco upon being released from his Saltzburg duties, after whining about wanting out.  The guy had his bratty moments. Other legends are celebrity gossip: his death was prosaic illness, he and Salieri seemed to get along, and his money problems were probably not so terrible as he himself would tell it, though productivity is directly connected to patronage.  <br />Gay does a good job of portraying the complex relationship between Mozart and his tyrannical stage father.  Likewise, he effectively describes Mozart's relationship with his social environment, late in the Enlightenment. He also tracks his creative development, revisiting the genius of many works, especially the later operas.  Working within only 163 pages, though, something gets left out:  we know nothing of Mozart's own children and Gay drops almost any mention of his sister, Nannerl, past their childhood.  He says that Leopold, Mozart's father, continued to exploit his son's gift after his death but does not say how when it comes time to discuss it.<br />Those are minor flaws. Mozart's a delight, the writing's a delight.  It's like a fizzy drink packed with nutrients.	2002-09-24
US	53041816	R1EDQIVCCFX84G	0060950013	255845899	The Vegetarian Feast: Revised and Updated	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Enduring	THE VEGETARIAN FEAST is a real trooper of a cookbook.  Its endurance in print and in my kitchen are testimony to its strengths:  1) Mediterranean inspiration is apparent; 2) the author is conscious of not going overboard on high fats and offers some lightened recipes; 3) the food is attractive and varied; 4) every recipe includes suggestions for inclusion in 3- and 4-course menus; 5) there are some highly workable recipes here you cannot find anywhere else (or at least easily); short cuts, like using canned cooked beans, are suggested where appropriate; 7) most, if not all, ingredients can be easily found, even beyond metropolitan areas.  Most of the dishes are from the author's catering repertoire, including her easy signature wheat crackers.  This is a great book to ransack for ideas even if you do not ultimately use specific recipes.  Vegans beware:  eggs, honey and dairy are present.	2002-09-16
US	53041816	R1IEB4EV9G2SSA	0140094296	458351721	The Songlines	Books	5	9	10	N	N	An Exhilaratingly Complex Experience	Ordinarily, I say it is difficult to single out one book as significantly above others when I've read a steady stream of good ones, but THE SONGLINES belongs in a rarefied class.  It has immediately moved into the pantheon of my all time favorites. <br />THE SONGLINES is a trip to central Australia, to Aboriginal country.  In the 1980s, Chatwin found it to be a hardscrabble territory under an unforgiving sun, where the remote, sparse population mostly gets along in corrugated metal shelters. The sociological, political and economic condition of the Aborigines compares to that of the American Indian.  Most of the white European locals don't quite seem to know how or why they have been plunked down in this weird, other planet.  Hooking up with a savvier group of anthropologists and social workers, Chatwin looks for the songlines of an Aboriginal mythology, sacred paths spun out across the inscrutable terrain, each marked by a song that carries identity and connection to the prime movers at the beginning of time.  <br />Along the way, Chatwin includes portraits of the people he meets, historical notes and readings of anthropology, evolutionary theory, and philosophy.  In this far away land, he finds the stimulus that helps him organize a lifetime of readings and memories that come together in a meditation on the human need to travel and to make and share meaning.  Looking at the contemporary scene and people, he can see back to the very emergence of humans.  <br />Chatwin casts a spell you do not want to be broken.  I suggest that if you do not know much about him, resist that strong impulse to start reading biographical notes and commentary on the book until after you have finished the book.  None of what's out there will deny you its excellence; it just might poke a confusing hole in the reality it has created.  The book is an exhilaratingly profound experience in the accessible guise of a pleasant, insightful travelogue.  Ask why its author considered it fiction after you've read it.	2002-09-12
US	53041816	RSZXL467KBKT4	0679735739	741679065	The Information	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Brilliant and Infuriating (But Read It Anyway)	The name Martin Amis seemed to be everywhere in the nineties and I felt grossly uninitiated for not having read him. I can now say I have, having completed THE INFORMATION, and I now understand why he is simultaneously reputed to be brilliant and infuriating.  <br />THE INFORMATION is the story of a failed novelist who had published promisingly early on, who is not ready to admit his later work is unreadable, preferring to view himself as the victim of a frivolous culture that is embracing the frivolous (his take) fiction his best friend is producing.  He decides, as he turns forty, to take the best friend down, beginning with mind games, then descending into darker tricks, especially as he hooks up with a hood, a menacer-for-hire.  Along the way, his friend's synthetic star just keeps rising and his keeps sinking.  <br />Why this is brilliant:  1) Amis plays the ladder of comedy for all its rungs and worth.  It's nice to see the classic bones underneath. 2) It is witty throughout and laugh out loud funny in places. 3) The satiric picture of the publishing world on both sides of the Atlantic is scathing.  4) Amis is enviably literate, spurting well-placed allusions everywhere.  5) More about classic bones:  he revisits the complicated relationship of author, voice, and narrator in creative fiction and experiments in  occasional scenes where he steps before the reader as himself and makes connections to bigger themes.  6) He does a touching though unsentimental job of portraying children. <br />Why this is infuriating:  1) Few of his characters are sympathetic (but then few in Vanity Fair were, either).  2) Amis is enviably literate:  when he does the riff on Little Dorritt, you want to just throw in the towel, you can't compete, you might as well live in a cave.  3) There is a slight unevenness in momentum across the book, perhaps intentional, perhaps the result of writing this work across several years. 4) There are scenes, as there are in Tom Wolfe's novels, whereyou want to say, OK, I know what you can do, you've done that, get on with it.<br />The best thing about this book:  it's alive!  It's not solemn, hands-at-its-side, perfunctory literary fiction.  If it is messy in places, so be it.	2002-09-10
US	53041816	RS5HY3L7QIJ0C	0345446666	257610007	Death in Holy Orders (Adam Dalgliesh Mystery Series #11)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	PD James At Her Best	I had given up on P.D. James and the Dalgleish series a few years ago.  A month ago I picked up A CERTAIN JUSTICE and was reminded that even if the story was unsatisfying compared to earlier volumes in the series, the quality of writing was head and heels over most anything else in the contemporary mystery market.  Then, along comes DEATH IN HOLY ORDERS in which P.D. puts back together everything that was right about the series in the first place and pulls off her best performance.  <br />In DEATH IN HOLY ORDERS, James retrieves the original character of Commander Adam Dalgleish of New Scotland Yard, who skulked about like a ghost in recent books, and returned him front and center to the story.  She creates an extraordinary setting--an elite Anglican seminary created in Victorian times that is having trouble surviving the church's 21st century needs with a 19th century vision.  The setting is all important--it holds childhood connections for Dalgleish, and significance for other characters as well.  It is at once a sanctuary and an imperiled place, not just politically but geologically as well, situated as it is on the eroding eastern coast of England.  Adding to the peril--it really does seem like a comfortable, lovely place--is a typically grizzly James murder and worse, the usual suspects are the mostly, though not entirely all, sympathetic residents and visitors.  <br />If you've read James and this series before, then you know about the red herrings she bowls at readers and the way the murder will be solved.  But DEATH IN HOLY ORDERS has much more than that going for it.  The author successfully spins out some major, rather literary themes through her use of character, events and setting. Among other topics, she addresses the role of belief and redemption. She is not without a sly sense of fun:  she parodies her own conventions in having a character refer to a dead-end lead as a \\"kipper\\" since that's what a red herring is anyway, he argues.  <br />I have to wonder if this book is a sweetheart's farewell to a mostly fine series, an attention to last things.  James puts all her powers to work for the reader and in the end, she gives back to deserving characters some things that had gone wanting in their lives.  She does it carefully, so it is not overly sentimental, but it seems like an oblique good-bye.	2002-08-21
US	53041816	R28BU33R3Y356H	0670893919	852544333	Leonardo da Vinci (Penguin Lives)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Highly readable, astute	The biographies in the Penguin Lives series share a mission to take a well-known life whose extant facts are obscured and bring it \\"to life\\" through an inspired matching of subject and author.  That, and Penguin aims for brevity and narrative flair.  Sherwin Nuland's LEONARDO DA VINCI is the fourth volume in the series I've read, and while I did not find it ultimately as satisfying as Carol Shields' JANE AUSTIN or RWB Lewis's DANTE, it is pretty darn good.<br />Nuland, a professor of clinical surgery at Yale University and the author of the award-winning HOW WE DIE, took on a formidable challenge in Leonardo da Vinci.  The man lived a long life, particularly for his time, and he was all over the map.  He was an engineer, an artist, a scientist.  He did nothing in linear fashion.  He often started a project and lost interest in it; the finished products for which he is known are just the tip of the iceberg.  Though he once spoke of writing 121 books, Leonardo never sat down to create one coherent manuscript; instead, his legacy was thousands of pages of notes in no particular order, that a few adventuresome archivists since his death have shaped into various portfolios here and there.  <br />Given that and the mission of brevity, it is too much, I suppose, to expect the book to touch all the bases.  Nuland chooses a few major battles, among them what enabled the genius (revisiting Freud's thesis of homosexuality), and the genius revealed through Leonardo's anatomical studies.  Particularly in respect to the latter, Nuland is highly qualified to instruct in just how accurate the drawings are and how far-sighted were the conclusions for their time.<br />I wish Nuland had offered up some other information:  What was the environment of a dissecting laboratory in those days?  Has anyone ever investigated the possibility that Leonardo may have been ADHD or entertained some other disorder that affected his organizational skills but which also enabled the compensatory visualand intellectual skills? How exactly did he die?  If he was appreciated for his art work in his own time, and known for being well liked, how was his death received? Where is he buried? Stuff like that.	2002-07-31
US	53041816	R2XW02JI0O7SV3	0864426054	213200876	A Small Place in Italy	Books	5	40	41	N	Y	I learned, laughed, cried, couldn't put it down	In 1967, British travel editor Eric Newby and his wife, Wanda, bought a primitive farmhouse in the hills between Liguria and Tuscany, the region where they met during World War II, Newby a soldier on the run between POW internments, Wanda a relief worker.  They are the first foreigners to come live in their neighborhood, which remained unchanged from the time of the War; in fact, the country people, contadini, probably lived pretty much as they had for a couple of centuries or more.  In the 25 years that the Newbys stayed, using the farmhouse as a second home but tending the land seriously, they were accepted and came to know the people and area well.  A SMALL PLACE IN ITALY is a profile of their neighbors, their work, customs and the surrounding area. He offers up historical notes and chronicles the arrival of the late 20th century and loss of old ways. <br />This book has everything going for it.  Newby is honest, a truthful writer.  He never sells out his subject for entertainment or sentimentality.  He does not go the route of portraying the noble savage, he does not paint the peasantry as buffoons or children, he does not go over the top to prove that he is one of them.  It is obvious that he and Wanda were quickly accepted into the community because they were hard workers who respected the land and were happy to share.  There is a fine wit and spirit at hand.  Newby has to be the most resilient person on earth (see A SHORT WALK IN THE HINDU KUSH for more evidence).  <br />Other virtues of this book:  the pages whip by because Newby is brilliant at ordering his information.  He also translates the Italian phrases and words that pop up routinely, so that those of us unschooled in Italian, particularly northern Italian expressions, are not at a loss.	2002-07-25
US	53041816	R3LXBUEAD3ODSU	0801864461	791383714	Green Shingles: At the Edge of Chesapeake Bay	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Original, Articulate Tapestry of a Place	In middle age, Peter Svenson and his wife, K, have moved to Maryland from the Virginia farm that was the setting of Svenson's acclaimed book, BATTLEFIELD.  They decide to make a bold leap, in terms of economics and lifestyle, and buy a house on the windy Tolchester bluff on the Eastern Shore of the Chesapeake Bay.  The title, GREEN SHINGLES, is derived from the house's distinctive roof.   In graceful prose marked by a distinctive, articulate voice, Svenson by turns examines the natural science, maritime events, and public works that connect with his existence on that bluff, the beach 40 feet below it and, of course, the water.  <br />If you are turning to this book having just finished BATTLEFIELD, you should know that once again, Svenson does a bang up job of coaxing the history out of a place; he does thorough research and interprets it in compelling terms.  This time, he also visits on tugs and a coast guard buoy patrol, profiling the tasks and life aboard the boats in the bay.  You will find the pace of this book more languid, and in some instances the author more self absorbed in a curmudgeonly way.  He takes time out to relate a homeowner's contractor from hell story and his skirmish with a local art show, the latter a provincial bruising it seems to his MFA trained sensibilities. This is indeed a different book from that first, but in the end, Svenson again delivers a fine, original performance that is a pleasure to read.  You put it down convinced he is, after all, right about a lot of things.	2002-07-11
US	53041816	REDD6YI349KX3	080186447X	753482921	Battlefield: Farming a Civil War Battleground	Books	5	10	12	N	Y	Not Just Good History, Great Writing, Too	The battle at Cross Keys, Virginia is not one of the more renowned conflicts of the Civil War.  My family had been flummoxed by the lack of information when researching my great-great grandfather's teenage career as a soldier in the 39th New York regiment that fought there.  Enter Peter Svenson to save the day, pulling the experience of the battle out of oblivion into an extraordinary narrative. A landscape artist, he had purchased a 40-acre rhomboid shaped tract on which to build a home and studio and to farm hay.  He belatedly discovered the land to be the actual battlefield.  Turning to original source material, including personal letters, memoirs and formal military reports, he summons a very detailed account of the events and environment of 8 June 1862.  Not only does the battle become an important lens through which to critically assess the strategies of Fremont (North) and Jackson (South) and the fortunes of each side in the early part of the war, the account is highly revealing of the experience of the common soldier.  Though there were thousands out there that day (far more Union than Confederate, though the North lost this one), Svenson takes pains to identify the regiments and their locations, and what happened to them. I now know where my ancestor most likely fell and the horror he endured for hours until he was picked up and taken to the &quot;hospital,&quot; a store that had been appropriated for a surgery.  I am astounded that he made it out of there with his limbs intact, that he survived the everpresent danger of disease Svenson describes. Please know there is more to Svenson's book than the battle history, however: he intersperses the history with accounts of life on the land in the late 20th century.  In doing so, he shows how deeply connected the present is to a very traumatic part of our national past.  It's a thoughtful book, made all the more enjoyable by the author's strong, pleasant voice.  BATTLEFIELD was nominated for a National Book Awardwhen it debuted; while it ultimately did not win, it is tops in my estimation.	2002-06-19
US	53041816	R3JG0H2021N06Z	0864426046	58707336	A Short Walk in the Hindu Kush	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Nothing Short of Excellent	Good travel narrative should begin with self awareness and, one would hope, a sharp wit on behalf of the writer. That's the entertainment half. It should end in a new appreciation of place and culture for the reader, the edifying part. A Short Walk In the Hindu Kush by Eric Newby delivers on all accounts. Though the \\"short\\" walk of the title took place circa 1956 and the book was published in 1958, it has special pertinence for the contemporary reader. The name of the mountain range translates as the \\"Killer of the Hindus,\\" straddling Afghanistan and Nuristan, the wild vortex where cultures and powers have collided in attempts to bridge east and west for thousands of years. Most recently, of course, the region has figured in the war on terrorism. In fact, I have a much better grasp of the multicultural nature of the land and its political history from Newby's careful notes than from contemporary media. <br />Even if the Hindu Kush was irrelevant to latterday headlines, Newby's narrative is worthwhile reading. To explain why an urbane executive in the fashion industry would quit and suggest a trek in partly uncharted mountain range in a alien land, with no experience in mountain climbing, he begins with a hilarious account of his London job. He also speaks to that national urge to get off the island and go look about. His is a genuine yearning for exploration, for experiencing \\"the other.\\" The trek, taken with a pal and some local guides, is often perilous. At the very end, the Newby party meets up with the embodiment of the stuffy military Brit who belittles their achievement. The author does not have to answer for the reader or himself-we know, as he does, that it was quite extraordinary. <br />Newby is great company, a fine writer who doesn't make the story about himself even when starring in it. Lonely Planet is to be thanked for keeping this in print.	2002-05-24
US	53041816	R139555YJ1V19Z	0881502472	385854924	The King Arthur Flour 200th Anniversary Cookbook	Books	5	30	32	N	N	Excellent Primer	King Arthur's Flour 200th Anniversary Cookbook sits on my pantry shelf with Beard On Bread, Amy's Bread and other venerable baking books.  Often though, it is KA that helps me out, as it did a couple of days ago when I was looking for a way to approximate a bread I sampled at a restaurant.  KA appears rather quaint and rural New Englandish, especially with recipes like Monster Pie (not a bad thing), but don't underestimate it.  It provides a lucid, nonthreatening approach to the basics, also explains theory so you can build your own recipes.  The only thing that dates this ten-year-old volume is the fact that it is not up to date on some of the spiffier ingredients KA has added to its Baker's Catalogue, like SAF yeast and special bread flours. It was compiled before bread machines caught fire, too, so for those who only do bread that way, it may not offer everything.	2002-03-25
US	53041816	R1RPR4YUC94DAB	0141002166	493689231	Blue Ridge	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Pearson Sneaks Up On You	You find Pearson's prose to be well observed but basically straightforward.  You suspect he has something more literary going on beneath the surface.  Eventually, you will get it if not at first.  <br />The \\"surface\\" of BLUE RIDGE is comprised of two concurrent, leapfrogging tales.  One concerns a sheriff's deputy investigating a murder on the Appalachian Trail in Virginia.  The other follows a Roanoke insurance actuary caught in the criminal underground of New York City when summoned to identify the body of an adult son he had not seen since he was a young child.  Both strands can be described as genre mysteries with stock characters providing ironic relief--a Parks investigator reminiscent of Christy Love and violent thugs and bungling cops peopling New York.  In the end, though, Pearson has said volumes about the two contemporary sons of the south, loners who have had their lives transformed by the loss of children in their respective pasts.  Despite the violence, despite the clowning around, there's a quiet heart at work here, one that worries about the rise of chaos, the loss of order and high falutin' things like that.	2002-03-12
US	53041816	RLX0RBF3HCWQZ	0679640967	462291643	Peoples and Empires: A Short History of European Migration, Exploration, and Conquest, from Greece to the Present (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	5	27	30	N	Y	A Lucid, Intelligent Book for General Readers	I don't know about the other readers, but my high school world history teacher was the swim coach.  Let's just say I know a lot about the fortunes of a certain swim team from Connecticut circa 1967. If PEOPLES AND EMPIRES has achieved little else, it has plugged the gaping holes in my education and pulled three ensuing decades of idiosyncratic, untutored reading into context.  For that it gets the 5 stars.<br />The Modern Library Chronicles are intended to be short works to serve as general introductions or refresher courses.  When covering more than two millennia in less than 200 pages (it is 167 pages plus introduction and addenda), choices have to be made in what to keep, what to skip.  Pagden's focus is the concept of empire and how it was adapted and revised over time to shape European civilization as it gradually circled the globe, then ebbed.  There are entire wars, events and personalities that are left out because they do not directly relate to the conceptual development of empire. You will not find the Crusades in this text (though noted in the chronology) nor the Spanish Armada.  You will find a detailed, charged discussion of slavery and its role in empire development.  Likewise, you will find an energetic account of the conquistadors.  Pagden's prose is always lucid and level, but in those chapters he shines. <br />This is the second Chronicles volume I've read.  The series editor displays a knack for identifying authors who infuse their topics with voice, vision and heart.  The books are well documented with indexes, chronologies and bibliographies.  While seasoned historians may debate their perspective or find the content too general, it is just what a mainstream reader needs.	2002-03-12
US	53041816	RKAWV02IKNXRZ	0811806960	893832069	The Griffin & Sabine Trilogy Boxed Set: Griffin & Sabine/Sabine's Notebook/The Golden Mean	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	Unusual Book Art Translates into High Entertainment	Why go for the entire Griffin and Sabine trilogy when you haven't seen any of the books yet?  Believe me, experience (this is more than reading) one and you WILL want the others. Go for the box.<br />Bancock, an illustrator who has produced pop-up books in the past has created a picture book for adults that's a guilty pleasure.  The concept is built about a suspenseful series of correspondence between Griffin, a London postcard illustrator, a Sabine, a postage stamp artist residing in the South Pacific. There is mysticism, romance, a little Jung, a little Freud. The text is conveyed on the illustrated postcards and in letters that are tucked into actual envelopes. It is a tour d'force of ideas and illustration. A grouch might say it is glib or slick; that's the grouch's problem.  This is for everyone who would like to be surprised and entertained in an off-beat way.	2002-03-12
US	53041816	R2Z5D9LSBN8FOC	0670882348	99381981	Crazy Horse: A Penguin Lives Biography	Books	4	41	42	N	N	Fine Meditation on a Life	This is the third Penguin Lives volume I've read and I find the series is holding up to positive first impressions.  The Lives books are short, averaging around 200 pages each, but are saved from being mere outlines by creative matchmaking of subject with author.  In CRAZY HORSE, Larry McMurtry, Pulitzer Prize winning author of Lonesome Dove, takes on one of the legendary Indians of the 19th century American west.   Like the as yet unfinished monument of him that is being carved out of the Black Hills of the Dakotas, Crazy Horse looms large in oral tradition and is the subject of some weighty tomes, including a biography by controversial historian Stephen Ambrose.  Despite the heft of the Crazy Horse canon, McMurtry says that the actual facts of his life are wispy and he chooses to devote his book to sorting the man from the fiction.  In doing so, he offers up a lucid picture of the changing state of Indian culture as  Manifest Destiny chewed its way across the plains.  What facts do come to light reveal Crazy Horse as better suited to his culture's past, a reluctant though dutiful leader who preferred wandering alone in the hills. At one point, McMurtry makes a quiet observation of dust kicked up on a latterday trail ride, an image that becomes a central metaphor expressing the problem of retrieving a truth that has been filtered through so many biases. Some readers may be at a slight disadvantage because McMurtry assumes the reader possesses a certain amount of familiarity with the facts of Little Big Horn and the legends.  Some  may be disappointed that this book offers less about the man then about politics, both Indian and white, and the process of historical investigation and perspective.   I think it is a fine meditation on all subjects. McMurtry is unafraid to express a controversial opinion.	2002-02-13
US	53041816	R1AIQRRCWSFFXO	067964086X	482900418	The Renaissance: A Short History (Modern Library Chronicles)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Engaging compact history	The whole point in picking up this book is that it promises to be short.  That's what you want. That said, it is inevitable to think, as you draw to the end, that gee, it has left a few things out.  That is a minor criticism, however, for a book that encompasses the extraordinary cultural advances of the Renaissance in a lucid narrative that rises well above outline format.  Johnson chooses to emphasize the artistic growth of the era (the economics of the book's length apparently caused science and mathematics to get the short end).  What Johnson does look at, however, he looks at in depth, with high appreciation for the aesthetics and enduring significance.  His first chapter does a good job of sorting out the political, religious and cultural conditions that led to this unparalleled period in human history.  For someone untrained in historical inquiry, whose education in world history was minimal and a long time ago, this book was a pleasant refresher course.	2002-02-07
US	53041816	R2VHLR4N3AKLWX	0140247742	270062913	Dubliners: Text and Criticism; Revised Edition (Critical Library, Viking)	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Choice Edition	While ULYSSES can be scary and the guilt over not conquering it humiliating, DUBLINERS, a collection of early stories James Joyce penned between 1904 and 1906, is quite accessible, worthy and guilt-free. Each story stands on its own, but read straight through, they provide a powerful narrative of Edwardian Dublin as lived by its lower and middle classes. It is an internal as well as external experience. The last story, \\"The Dead,\\" is often cited as one of the greatest short fictions ever penned and there is merit in that praise. In a story of one New Year's Night celebration in the company of well-drawn, very sympathetic characters, Joyce fits a stunning portrayal of an entire culture. It is beautiful.<br />This critical edition is the one you want to read. There are some references, especially to politics, that are no longer common knowledge and need explanation. I read another, unannotated volume and had to do a little unexpected homework. Please know, though, the fact that notes are helpful in no way impinges on the pleasurable flow of reading DUBLINERS.	2002-02-01
US	53041816	R1GZMS4CS1YC4R	0140293248	221101137	The Girls' Guide to Hunting and Fishing	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Highly recommended	Don't make the mistake of pigeon-holing this book as romantic lit for young unmarrieds, or, in the current vernacular, as chick lit.  Also, don't buy the line that it will make you scream with laughter as did BRIDGET JONES.  There is considerable wit in the dialogue and in the narrative voice that imbues most of the stories, but for the most part the situations are not hilarious.  It is about blindly negotiating the rapids of love, but it is more than a simple gloss on romance.  It is a striking, literary look at how love as defined first by family expands to a scary, complicated new world in which the self is in peril of being lost.  <br />You should also know that GIRL'S GUIDE is not a novel as it is sometimes referenced.  It is a collection of confluent short stories, most featuring the continuing saga of Jane Rosenal in an effervescent first person narrative.  If there is a flaw in Bank's plan, it is that the Jane stories present such a strong, chronological projectile that two other interspersed pieces that provide different perspectives on this thing called love seem intrusive.  Thematically, though, they work well and offer some experimentation.  The author's style shows a spine made of contemporary literary fiction mores, but her voice breaks free of prescription.<br />Since the reader spends considerable time with Jane, you should know that she is a very warm, intelligent, REAL person.  She is very witty.  She gets a lot right about love and jobs. She makes the book go down easily and leaves you interested in seeing what Bank does next.	2002-01-30
US	53041816	RKISN43NCOMF2	0140244050	396678385	American Junk	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Fun to Give and Receive	American Junk is not a how-to book as its subtitle suggests.  Far more specific advice about hunting and haggling is available in flea market directories, and there really is no rescue or transformation involved: items acquired move directly to the table top, shelf, desk, floor, wherever.  This is a celebration of cheap old stuff that others might ignore or take pains to avoid, an annointment of its value by someone of influence (the author is a vice president at Ralph Lauren, I believe). It's a quasi aesthetic, with loving photographs of the items in assembled in haphazard tableaus.  It is of an innocent age, published before e-bay seized collectibles from the trash, before absolutely everybody got into flea market hunt, before Antiques Roadshow--and that was less than 10 years ago! The author does not explain to a doubter's satisfaction how one lives and cleans with so much stuff.  Not all of it is really junk, of course--a vintage set of Zane Grey novels, some folk art carving, old textiles are not what I'd call junk.  Dirty old Tupperware or small harvest gold appliances that no longer work are what I call junk and they are not to be found in this book. Ah, well; it is fun to give or receive, but take the author's approach and try to get it cheap.	2002-01-29
US	53041816	R135VXJF7R2IN7	0684848325	433878677	Newman's Own Cookbook	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Real Food from Real People	I did not originally acquire this book for the food--I did it because it was a good cause and I grew up in the vicinity of the authors--but in the end, it's about the food. While there are pictures of the celebrity authors and contributors, they are infrequent, black and white candids.  Newman and Hotchner let the food take the stage and it is the stuff of fun evenings with friends.  While some recipes call for Newman's Own products, it is always stated that cooks may substitute another choices.  There is some originality to the dishes--consider making a custard with lemonade instead of milk or baking a cake made with pasta sauce.  The directions are simple, the food pleasantly earthy.  The selection is a bit idiosyncratic but carnivores and vegetarians will find suitable selections. Not bad at all.	2002-01-21
US	53041816	R1TYVKTMJF12GM	0385720866	454158798	Lost Classics: Writers on Books Loved and Lost, Overlooked, Under-read, Unavailable, Stolen, Extinct, or Otherwise Out of Commission	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Great Conversation	The act of reading has been mistakenly called solitary.  It is all about dialogue and this book has it in spades.  Michael Ondaatje and fellow editors from Brick Magazine, a literary journal, invited over 70 past contributors to submit essays singing the praises of lost, long-ago, out-of-print or underrated books that mattered.  In other words, it is a collection of love stories, all personable and short.  It is a delight on several levels: not only does it suggests some good-sounding reads, it also introduces some interesting reader/writers, many of them Canadian who do not get enough recognition in America.	2002-01-07
US	53041816	RVCT8FH8EHJMV	0553053523	646455215	Mediterranean Light	Books	5	18	19	N	N	I Cook Regularly From This	My rule of thumb is, if you get three recipes that you cook regularly out of a cookbook, and you otherwise enjoy it, it has earned its selling price.  Let's see:  I use the recipes for hummus, white bean and tuna salad, tabouleh, semolina bread, that thing with chard and fish . . . and there's lots more.  The author explains how to do it all from scratch, which is always good to know, but I've saved some time substituting already cooked beans and, when I don't have any I've made myself, I've used commercially produced, fat-reduced chicken stock.  Nutritional data is provided for each dish.	2002-01-07
US	53041816	RLU150B13YZ2A	0140033181	18008564	As I walked out one midsummer morning	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Memorable	It's a shame that this fine book is not in print.  Those going after used editions--and you should--are encouraged to look for the 1985 reprint stunningly illustrated with classic paintings of Spanish life.  But back to why you want to read this:  in 1934, a young, naive Englishman who had never been out of his rural neighborhood packed up his violin and went walking, first to London, a hundred miles east and then via boat to Spain where he walked from Vigo in the north down to the southern coast.  I'm having trouble shelving the book: is it a straight memoir? Certainly it is very much about the writer's encounter with the world at a historically significant time and about his own growth process.  Or is it a travelogue?  It is a very accurate account of the unique Spanish culture and countryside.  Although written more than 30 years after the actual experience, Lee's account conveys a fresh sense of wonder and discovery and resists overlaying too much foreshadowing and hindsight. His style is lyrical, vivid as the blue Spanish sky and honest.  He is refreshingly free of nationalism and prejudice.	2002-01-02
US	53041816	R2URZ7JKMDWKC5	0811808882	765162997	The Vegetarian Table: America	Books	5	30	30	N	Y	Grab This Bargain Book Now	This book is a bargain at its full price, but given the offer, it is a true find.  Grab it!  Deborah Madison is an accomplished food writer with several other vegetarian cookbooks to her credit.  This one focuses on traditional American foods and ingredients.  I made several recipes out of this book over the holidays-Corn Pudding and Hominy Grits Casserole are two that were especially popular.  The book is visually pleasing, and the recipes turn out like the photographs.  Madison is a lucid, non-preachy writer and the recipes are easy to follow.  She does not insult the reader with hard-to-find ingredients or complicated procedures.  While American culinary traditions are thought of as meat-oriented, she has done a fine job of reminding us that our heritage includes worthy vegetables, fruits, grains and dairy products.  Although not for vegans, this collection works well for ovo-lactos as well as carnivores who are seeking ways to complement or de-emphasize meat in their diets.	2002-01-02
US	53041816	R2UH5PLBVAWXHJ	0670894885	424836869	Jane Austen (Penguin Lives)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Quite Readable	This is the second Penguin Lives biography I've read and it, like the other (Dante), whets the appetite for more.  The point of the series seems to be compactness and the synergetic pairing up of author and subject.  The result is a very readable product that emphasizes the life in terms of his/her times and work and the meaning it continues to offer.  Those who prefer weighty doorstops that peruse every fiber of the life and every theory of it, in leaden prose, laying speed bumps of footnotes on every page, will not be as enthralled.<br />Carol Shields, author of the Pulitzer Prize-winning novel THE STONE DIARIES, gracefully handles the problems of writing Jane Austen's life.  Austen lived in obscurity, without celebrity, 1775 - 1817; after her death her family covered many of her tracks.  What remains are some letters and family rememberances, most of the latter penned years after their spinster sister/aunt's death, darkly filtered through time and changing values.  As she did in the STONE DIARIES, Shields seems at first to be holding her subject off at a respectful distance.  She reminds us of how much has to be left to conjecture.  And yet, you arrive at the end of JANE AUSTEN with a sense of truly understanding this woman both in terms of and apart from her novels.  Somehow, Austen got past her family's ancient guard when Shields went looking for her.  It is a portrait of an amazing artist, conveyed by an amazing artist.	2001-12-12
US	53041816	R31HYKKZXJKC8D	0140287825	977269962	Death in Summer	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Interiors and Exteriors Make Interesting Story	William Trevor has been highly recommended by people I respect, and I do plan on reading more of him.  DEATH IN SUMMER is the first of his works I've encountered and while it did not quite live up to what I expected, that's not to say it isn't good.  As I read it, I kept imagining it as a contemporary British television dramatization, a medium to which it would translate well, if not better than the page.  The story is spare yet complicated:  A new widower with an infant interviews and decides not to hire a nanny, instead accepting his mother-in-law's offer to come care for the child.  Unknown to him, one of the girls interviewed and not hired as a nanny becomes obsessed with him, interjecting into his life unforeseen consequences, forcing him to confront the emotional isolation in which he had long taken refuge.  The characters are fully drawn, as are the settings.  The sentences are graceful. The movement of the action is a bit off, spending a little too much time away from the protagonist at times.   It can be very quiet, too; doesn't eat its own scenery.  In the end, though, it successfully conveys its themes, especially the observation of how so much of our knowledge about others' lives is gathered in eavesdropping or guessing, never with the complete information.	2001-11-05
US	53041816	R5PUY5RQ9RSVB	0395901332	555881238	Reality and Dreams	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Run, Don't Walk, to Get This!	This book was an unexpected surprise.  I'd read Spark's earliest novels years ago, had only the vague memory that they were enjoyable and well-written.  REALITY AND DREAMS is a reminder that Spark is far better than just good.  In just 160 pages, she carries off a miracle of imagery, plot twists and character development that swirl about the title's themes and the difficulty that mortals, particularly those engaged in artistic, especially cinematic pursuits, have in distinguishing between the two or understanding how one can beget another.  Spark wittily populates her book with a lively, bright ensemble of contemporary British characters whose lives are in one way or another connected with protagonist Tom Richards, a successful movie director.  Like most of the characters, he is flawed, but also like most of the characters, there is tension yet some fun in watching him.  Appropriate to the theme, Spark creates two films for him to conceive and execute, and such is the power of her vision, they felt real enough that I wanted to see them.  She grounds that glamour, however, against the backdrop of contemporary economic realities--redundancy, the British term for unemployment, down-sizing and such becomes a major image and theme as well.  Spark's voice is so very truthful throughout, that it is yet another layer of commentary on the relationship between reality and dreams. She can take a bell-clear image, scene or piece of dialogue and make it dense with multiple meaning.  Wow! I was very sorry when the book was over.	2001-10-22
US	53041816	R17GSXUEQAWJ1W	0767902521	157497316	A Walk in the Woods: Rediscovering America on the Appalachian Trail (Official Guides to the Appalachian Trail)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Original, fine writing, entertaining, too	Bryson brings his trademark humor, sense of wonder and ability to gracefully weave history, science and character sketches to the Appalachian Trail. A day hiker at best and somewhat out of shape, he was quite unprepared for the trek from Georgia to Maine, but he persevered long after the majority of those who attempt a thru-hike statistically drop out. He spent enough time to give us a very intimate look at the culture of the AT. From the outset, this is a very different kind of travelogue, even for Bryson, because of the presence of a partner in the enterprise, Katz, a high school pal he hasn't seen in years. Katz brings the unpredictability of a tornado to the mix. He is overweight, a post substance abuse sugar freak who contributes a novelistic tension to the mission, often influencing the rhythm and precipitating a suspenseful climax to their adventures.<br />Dedicated, humorless backpackers may snort that Bryson admits to not walking every mile of the well over 2,000 mile trail and they will probably take him to task for bugging out to the occasional motel or hostel along the way. They will be offended that he hates to talk shop about equipment. I enjoyed the book immensely and came away with much new (to me) information. I had no idea that the AT was a 20th century construct or how it bustles with a culture of its own. From this book I learned a lot about what humans have done to the environment, and what humans become in the wilderness (sometimes generous, sometimes idiotic, sometimes certifiable). I learned that the &quot;why&quot; in &quot;Why do it at all?&quot; is not easily answered. I admire anyone who has done it, even if just in part.	2001-09-25
US	53041816	R2PCWF3BNPI7V3	0553107437	479839252	Claws and Effect: A Mrs. Murphy Mystery	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Not best of series, but okay company	A couple of days after our monumental tragedy..., I needed something extremely light and removed for those sleepless hours after sticking so close to the news and trying to do something, anything and ultimately feeling helpless. This was the closest available book that fit the bill. Did it help? Nothing can. Did it at least provide some distraction? Yeah, some. This series is a familiar one to me, one of the few of the mystery genre I come back to. In the tradition of the English village mysteries, Brown has created a world unto itself in the Virginia countryside outside of Charlottesville. It is a place where a few residents still cling to what Mark Twain called FFV-Founding Families of Virginia-status and codes alongside characters who are more in tune with the New South and contemporary American mores. The series has a schtick-the heroine's pets solve the crimes but let the humans take the bows. Brown is at her best when she stays true to the world she has created, and she sticks with it in CLAWS AND EFFECT. (Though after so many books, the little town of Crozet sports a community hospital, a nearby private prep school, a subdivision, a strip mall and other features that would suggest a town that requires a fuller, multiservice postal system, not the little village center with a single postmistress.) Brown is off her rhythm in the plotting and exposition this time out. It is obvious and the criminals are uninteresting. Sadly, a regular character, a nice guy, is killed off. The hunt scenes are well drawn, and as always, there is the banter between the series regulars, especially the women. And the author can really write a sentence; even the simplest have grace and style. I think Brown (excuse me, the Browns) is (are) simply revving up to do a better job next time out.	2001-09-18
US	53041816	RNHRUVBTNNCE0	0670899097	235723201	Dante (Penguin Lives)	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	Compact and Graceful, Lucid and Generous Writing	DANTE by RWB Lewis is my introduction to the Penguin Lives series and if this is representative of the full series, I'm reading every volume. In 205 pages, in graceful prose that never flags, Lewis deftly sketches the life of Dante Alighieri and the times in which he lived, and, very important, offers a reading of his greatest works. The early Florentine Renaissance was a period fraught with political turmoil and Lewis does a good job of sorting out the factions and turns of events and their impact on Dante's life. His rereading of Dante's works is generous--no need to have read the masterpieces recently or perhaps at all to learn from this and gain an appreciation. In fact, this book would make a fine introduction to a study of THE DIVINE COMEDY. Lewis shares his own wonder and pleasure in Dante's work, and when he cites the original Italian lines, to provide an idea of their flavor, he always provides a translation.	2001-09-17
US	53041816	RG3SGO515ICP8	088001282X	459711279	Days	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Atmospheric Slice of Life	Long after the expatriate American writer ceased to be a phenomenon in the 20th century, Paul Bowles, composer and writer, lived on in Tangier, Morocco, until his death just a couple of years ago at age 88. DAYS is a journal he kept at the request of the editor of a literary journal that was in the late 1980's planning a theme issue based on personal journals and notebooks. Bowles was not a diarist, and his first entries reflect his lack of purpose or investment in the form. The entries are not daily by any means or particularly long, but once he gets into it, his product is fascinating. He has a flair for nailing a scene or a mood in a quick sketch. Some may wish to read this for the glimpses of his well-known friends and visitors and his perspective of such social events as a Malcolm Forbes' party. I found the picture of contemporary Muslim-controlled Tangier to be  striking. This was written from 1987 - 1989 during which time Salmon Rushdie's SATANIC VERSES was published and a friend of Bowles rather thoughtlessly sent him a copy which the mail inspectors confiscated, which put him in the line of fire for a time. It was also the period when Bertolucci began the process of filming Bowles' novel, THE SHELTERING SKY.<br />I have to admit, I came to this book knowing next to nothing about Bowles. I had hoped it would be more of a travelogue, or something like Steinbeck's working journals, and it was neither. On the other hand, I was intrigued enough to want to learn more about Bowles, to read his work, and to be sorry that the journal ends abruptly. I realized that given his reports of the stream of photographers, interviewers, would-be biographers, aritsts, celebrities and strangers who came to his door like pilgrims, that he was someone of consequence in our visitable past, and I'm sorry I was not more aware when he was alive. For those who share my ignorance of the man, there is an informative short biography...	2001-09-10
US	53041816	R2YVZ9UNBYWKGH	0553211587	992467602	Pudd'nhead Wilson (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Worthy Twain	PUDD'NHEAD WILSON is not HUCKLEBERRY FINN, but it is a worthy Twain novel, a strong example of his satiric and ethical writing.  Written in 1894, ten years after he published his masterpiece, Twain revisits antebellum small-town Missouri life and this time, his anger at the institution of slavery and the racist folly are front and center in the voice of an omniscient narrator.  Twain puts several 19th century conventions of pop entertainment to work in this story: murder, suspense, dramatic irony, verbal irony, babies switched at birth, cross gender dressing, and foreign intrigue, but he takes it out of the ordinary by making the trigger for the various plot lines come down to the very real human tragedy of slavery and the fear of being &quot;sold down river.&quot;  <br />Although the suspense story may seem simple or outdated to a contemporary reader, many of Twain's themes are not.  The subject of nature versus nurture is still debated today as are the politics of language and dialect.  Twain's titular character is a hobbyist in what was then the nascent science of fingerprinting and his discussion compares to the contemporary debate over DNA evidence.  Of course, the biggest problems the author addresses remain our biggest social challenges-- racial discrimination, the gap between the haves and have nots, and the persistence of classist social systems.<br />Artistically, no, this is not HUCKLEBERRY FINN, but few books are.  Twain's use of irony wells up from every scene, every phrase so much so that it shines brilliantly.  It is a pleasure to read and it keeps you thinking long after it is over.	2001-09-10
US	53041816	R1K0Q75CNWRYYU	0380727501	157497316	Notes from a Small Island	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Honest, Entertaining, Insightful	The golden retriever in a cat suit who sprawls on my lap when I read demotes this book to one star for not being solemn enough.  I often writhed with laughter, accidentally dislodging the other critic which left him disenchanted.  Since I am the one who can type, however, the book gets all five stars.  NOTES FROM A SMALL ISLAND is a tour of contemporary England, taken in 1994 when the author, an American, was about to move his family stateside after two decades on said island.  Bill Bryson ranges far and wide, giving us a broad civic tour.  He travels by foot, bus and train and, ever so briefly, by rental car.  He has a sharp eye for reporting the layers of human endeavor or whim that are stacked on English soil.  In his 20 years on that ground, he has obviously absorbed the national penchant for irony and wit and uses adjectives and adverbs like a native.  Words like &quot;splendid,&quot; &quot;properly&quot; and &quot;crushingly&quot; dot his prose without affectation.  He includes a glossary at the back, but is apparently unaware that far more words and phrases that are now second nature to him still require some explanation over here.  What is a flyover?  <br />Bryson does not hesitate to speak his mind.  While he is quick to pounce on folly and annoyances, he is equally quick to offer heartfelt praise where due.  Much of the laugh-out-loud humor is at his own expense; he takes a spectacular pratfall every once in awhile.  With impeccable rhythm, he integrates observation, history, storytelling and the occasional stand-up comedy riffs (some belonging to the lower rungs of the comedy ladder, some a little higher).  The result is that I feel closer to England, have discovered an engaging writer and have toned the abs a bit for all the laughing.	2001-08-22
US	53041816	R2LDEGV4I4H4BG	0553562967	96085944	Bellwether	Books	4	5	7	N	N	A Warm, Funny Salve For Annoying Cultural Excesses	BELLWETHER was recommended to me a few years ago when the bureaucracy was too much with me late and soon.  Since then, I've given copies to friends when they need comic relief from corporate culture or trendiness of any kind.  This satire of contemporary manners is not searing and it will not solve a reader's own issues,  but it is fun to watch Willis kickbox  the major annoyances of our lives.  That this is classified as science fiction is a stretch; it follows fictitious scientific research at a high tech firm in the present day without alien intervention, genetics gone mad, time travel or alternative history.  So much is it in the present day that many of the over-the-top trends that the one scientist studies or is otherwise annoyed by are many of those we're still enduring or by now are waving, gratefully, good-bye.  Think flavored coffee drinks and angels, name brand catalogue clothes and expensive ugly sandals. Lest we never forget, Barbie dolls. This wouldn't be Connie Willis without a Disney idea of an adult flirtation, but this time the characters aren't unduly sappy.  I find it a little odd that Willis decides to illustrate her protagonist's good nature in rejecting the politically correct by subtly promoting smokers' rights.  Smoking transcends the political despite the tobacco lobby--it is NOT a good choice no matter what and smoke-free workplaces and restaurants are examples of social progress in the very late 20th century.  This book deserves three and a half stars, but since there are no &quot;halvsies&quot; allowed and since it is worth passing around, it gets 4.	2001-08-22
US	53041816	RF07CJ7HWUM6K	014118065X	55805723	The Return of the Soldier (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	5	37	38	N	Y	At Only 90 Pages, A Powerful Bargain of a Novel	THE RETURN OF THE SOLDIER, published in 1918, may be the most carefully conceived novel I've ever read, and I've read a fair amount of exquisitely executed fiction.  Told from the first person perspective of a spinster whose entire life revolves around her cousin, his life and country mansion, it is the story of an English gentleman who goes off to World War I only to be returned not in a body bag or physically injured but with a severe case of amnesia.  He does not recognize his pretty, socially correct wife; he has retreated to a hidden youthful romance with a poor woman.  The woman, also married now, comes forth in the interest of helping him.  The balance of the plot hangs in the implications of recovery.  The balance of the full experience of the novel is to watch characters change or not change their class prejudices and worldview in light of their experiences on this country estate.  Though only 90 pages long, much is packed into this book, much that is analogous to the English national experience as it moved from the Victorian era into the 20th century.  <br />The critical introduction, which should be read as an afterward so as not to rob you of the surprises in the novel, does a good job of reviewing the analogies between the tightly closed world of the country estate and the national experience.  There is much more to be mined from this novel, including a window on the then new science of psychoanalysis and how it was understood.  For me, the narration was a particular revelation.  At first I thought the voice a bit melodramatic in a 19th century way, but it became clear that the tone was all part of the author's plan, and that it changed as the narrator's vision changed.  The specter of spinsterhood hangs thick in the air, itself a comment on the social condition of the era.  Here is the perfect selfless, lonely narrator who knows everything about the lives in her tiny circle.  The woman who would be ignored becomes the ideal articulator of how England at home received the war.	2001-08-16
US	53041816	R5FYS9ED6X01M	0517542099	458212829	The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Lives Up To Its Rep	The hook for me, who is no science fiction genre reader, was the bit about the Vogons, the species that tortures its captives by forcing them to listen to bad poetry.  Having been promised that, I picked it up and thoroughly enjoyed the high-minded wit and glee that endows THE HITCHHIKER'S GUIDE TO THE GALAXY.  That and the book is rather short, making it perfect for when the mood calls for light reading but not junk food.  Adams obviously had fun with this, kicking at all matter of conventions, including the genre in which he chooses to phrase his satire.  His quintet of travelers are personable, even the self pitying robot.  Written some time ago, the book presages some technology that is beginning to appear now; the titular travel guide referenced throughout the book, for which one character is a writer, resembles a Palm Pilot, for instance.  My only complaint as an outsider to the genre is that there is no real climax and resolution in the story; after the initial, hilarious exposition, it heads into episodic adventure and just ends en route to another destination. Which means, I have to read the next book.  I suppose there are worse punishments out there. This small hardcover edition is quite nice and a bargain.  Go for it instead of a paperback.	2001-08-10
US	53041816	R104CXDNK9OR5Q	067973225X	161451712	As I Lay Dying: The Corrected Text	Books	5	1	2	N	N	He declines to accept the end of man	The end of the millennium lists that bristled with the best of the best all listed Faulkner but often disagreed on which of his novels is most representational, the &quot;must&quot; read.  Several named AS I LAY DYING and now that I've read it, I can see their point.  I could not put it down, reading it in a day.  While some people have trouble with the Faulkner style, I find it to be a long cool drink.  AS I LAY DYING belongs to the author's early productive period, coming out the year after THE SOUND AND THE FURY, in 1930.  Faulkner wrote it in six weeks, though it has the well-planed feeling of a work that was carefully aged.  Its structure resembles THE SOUND AND THE FURY with a series of monologues through which the story emerges of a rural family taking an overly long trip rife with misadventures and other agenda to bury its dead.  The story itself is remarkable, but add the psychological texture of the monologues and it is profound.  Faulkner balances the tragedy and exasperating absurdy with ease.<br />Every time I read Faulkner, I am astounded by his artistry and risk-taking.  Once again I am reminded of the creativity that bloomed through American novel writing in the early to mid 20th century.  Most of today's fiction pales beside it.  A note to those who are still acquiring a taste for this author:  Read him and trust him.  What seems confusing or unexplained at first is eventually reconciled. A note about this edition:  it has some notes at the end about the original typescript and its production but unlike many reprints of classical works it does not have a critical introduction.  That's okay:  reading this is a very full, personal experience that needs no middle man to negotiate its impact.	2001-08-09
US	53041816	R134BRL0CEPK8W	0385474547	672855451	Things Fall Apart	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A World Classic	In this compact novel, Chinua Achebe has packed a story on the level of Greek tragedy, of the tipping point in African tribal life when the white man comes, from the perspective of Okonkwo, a man for whom tribal life has worked seamlessly.  Achebe devotes the extended first part of the book to episodic accounts of village life, portraying a very complex agrarian culture with remarkably integrated economic, social, religious and political systems.  Okonkwo is the ambitious son of an unambitious man.  He overcame his inauspicious birthright and lives prosperously with three wives and several children.  Their daily life is rendered vividly in Achebe's rhythmic, economic style.  Misfortune befalls Okonkwo in a moment's accident at the end of part one, but tribal custom has a way of taking care of him, sending him and his family in exile to his mother's village for seven years.  He spends the years anxiously awaiting the time to return to the life he enjoyed, ignoring the harbingers of change that arrive in the person of the first missionary.   When he at last returns to the life he left behind, it is no what he had remembered, understood and cherished.  <br />For this contemporary reader, THINGS FALL APART served as a fine contemplation of character and conflict, of an international historical phenomenon from the individual's experience, of the problems of change and chance.  It also offered a fresh reading of Yeat's poem, &quot;The Second Coming,&quot; from which the title is taken.  I regret this was not assigned in my education; I hope educators are encouraging high school and college students to read it today.  It's the type of book that makes you love literature and reading.	2001-07-30
US	53041816	RK0WXHBTT90TO	0451527097	705074922	One Day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich (Signet Classics)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Powerful	Stalin held the Soviet Union in a grip of terror from 1941 until he died (or, some are now saying, was murdered) in 1953.  Among the atrocities that were always suspected were the existence of brutal Siberian prisons.  In 1963, Alexander Solzhenitzyn's novel, ONE DAY IN THE LIFE OF IVAN DENISOVICH, was published in America and around the world, revealing the realities of these experiences.<br />As much as the book makes an important statement of the political and social conditions of the era, it is also a wonderful work of literature.  In a direct, spare style, the author goes through the minutiae of daily life from the perspective of one man, the title character who is mostly called Shukhov in the book.  Like the other prisoners, Shukhov is not in for crime as we define it in America; his crime was to have been unlucky enough during World War II to be taken as a POW.  Another prisoner's crime was to have received a small token of appreciation after the war from a British soldier.  The brutalities they experience in their prison are not those commonly associated with contemporary American incarceration.  Insufficient clothing, insufficient food and insufficient bedding in a remote arctic setting are just the beginning.  They have nothing else. Work on building a &quot;community&quot; is only called off if the temperature goes lower than 42 degrees below zero.  The men are given insufficient tools and supplies but are expected under threat to complete the building process in record time.  On the one hand, the author writes, your worst enemy is the man next to you because you are both scrambling for the same meager scraps.  At the same time, though, the dynamics of the system require that you give your allegiance to the gang.  Many of the boss jobs are given to prisoners which yields another revelation about Stalin's world:  the wall between prisoner and paid staff was very thin.  Another: in the brief flashbacks of life outside the prison, there are struggles and inadequacies as well, no one has it easy.  And another:  the prisoners have one advantage that no one else in the USSR has, the freedom to communicate candidly without threat; what else can be done to those already living the life of punishment?  At the end of the day, Shukhov is thrilled: he has caged a few extra scraps of food during the day and did nothing that would cause him to be thrown into solitary confinement of which he is most afraid.<br />My chief test of fiction is, does the author create an airtight world, using it to explicate universal truths of the human condition?  ONE DAY IN THE LIFE OF IVAN DENISOVICH succeeds brilliantly.  It is very readable, much like THE OLD MAN AND THE SEA, and while it profiles a terrible life, it also emits a spirituality that arises from the specter of men who find something to be grateful for at the end of the day, even if it is an extra crust of stale bread or the fact that in the last 24 hours, they did nothing, however innocently, however not their own fault, that would get them sent to solitary confinement.	2001-07-18
US	53041816	R1EU8MGC3U5JFL	015685080X	855645559	The Stones of Florence	Books	5	51	51	N	Y	A City of Age-old Contradictions and the Great Renaissance	There are several reasons to go for Mary McCarthy's THE STONES OF FLORENCE.  You are about to go to, are in or have been to Florence, Italy; you enjoy the literature of travel; you appreciate a well-written book.  I fall into the latter two categories and thoroughly enjoyed this idiosyncratic work.  McCarthy wrote this in the very early 1960's when the very nature of Tuscany's chief city couldn't help but attract tourists at the same time it seemingly did everything to discourage them.  She swiftly dispenses with the contemporary city and spends the book peering back into its Renaissance soul, primarily the 14th through the 16th centuries when Florence was the Western center of intellectual activity.  What emerges is the picture of the greats-Dante, Giotto, Brunellseschi, Donatello, Fra Angelico, della Robbia, Botticelli, Da Vinci, Machiavelli, Michelangelo, Cellini, and various Medici to name a few-functioning amidst social, political and occasional natural upheaval.  As she suggests about one artist, perhaps the productivity was inspired by the need to make order out of chaos.  That and no doubt the fact that the Florentines used and valued art in their daily lives in ways that it is not today.  That science, engineering, architecture and art were closely aligned offered cross disciplinary assistance is also key-without the mathematicians, for instance, would artists have been able to as easily co-opt perspective and volume?<br />THE STONES OF FLORENCE is both direct and impressionistic.  McCarthy's prose moves right along, never bogged down by a &quot;perhaps&quot; or the need to recite contemporary opinion.  Her progress from the 14th to the 16th century is zig-zaggy, so that most of the Renaissance is spoken of as if on a continuum.  There is a sly wit at work (in the personality contest, the score is Leonardo 10, Michelangelo 0) and McCarthy presents a strong spine-she is unequivocal about the decline of the Renaissance in the 16th century as the major playersmoved away from Florence and the populace fell into a &quot;gee-gaw&quot; mentality.  <br />This is a travelogue and, after a fashion, an art history catalogue, and yet there are no pictures (in this edition).  That and its not too chronological organization would suggest an abstract mess but it is nothing of the kind.  I became very much aware of how much of the Renaissance was covered in my early education as every reference brought up old lessons and visits to museums out of the tar pits of memory.  I felt at home, not at a loss.	2001-07-10
US	53041816	R53JD65K0Y5IW	0061097861	623172566	Hunting Badger (Joe Leaphorn/Jim Chee Novels)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Not the strongest of an otherwise strong series	In the previous Jim Chee/Joe Leaphorn mystery, I sensed series fatigue and thought I would let go, but there was HUNTING BADGER and I thought well, one more time for old times' sake.  Unfortunately, except for a strong portrayal of Chee and witty commentary on the FBI, this is tired.  Female characters were never Hillerman's strong suit, but here they are mere shadows.  There is no clear idea of just who the bad guys are, their characters and motives, though one is obvious almost from the beginning.  Leaphorn does express chagrin that he did not see it coming and well he should. Perhaps it was intentional on Hillerman's behalf to build up the idea of Ironman, to comment on the power of legend in contemporary reality, but just letting that story line drop seems like a hurried rush to make deadline.  There was another moment, an accident with gender pronouns, a his where there should have clearly been a her, that is yet more evidence of the sad lack of genuine editing skill in the publishing industry today.  That said, this book does have Jim Chee, Joe Leaphorn and the remarkable landscape they inhabit, as well as Hillerman's swift, direct sentences.  If someone has not previously read a book in this series, I highly recommend beginning with A THIEF OF TIME or TALKING GOD, to get a sense of its true power.	2001-07-05
US	53041816	R3FJJWG3AFX4T4	0688021050	648408806	Moon-Spinners	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Sentimental Journey	Most writers and other English major types had their middlebrow beginnings as young adult readers.  I had Mary Stewart's THE MOONSPINNERS.  I just returned to it after, ahem, 36 years, and found that in many ways it held up the 14-year-old's original assessment.  It is witty, the characters attractive, the action spritely and believable.  The scenery of the Greek isle of Crete is rendered intoxicatingly, so much so that I can see why it helped inspire the 14-year-old to become the 16-year-old who went off on her own parentless adventure overseas.  The almost 50-year-old is surprised to relearn that the oh-so adult heroine and hero are in their very early twenties.  Mere children!  Ultimately, the book does not hide its romance genre genes or its era.  The heroine, who initially bristles at the male characters' sense of superiority does give in a little to it, and a little gratefully at that, at the end.  There is use of the word &quot;greedily&quot; in place of &quot;hungrily&quot;--a pet peeve of mine.  The author's ability to quote classic works at the drop of a hat was awe inspiring to the 14-year-old reader; it has all the suspicious cache of Bartlett's to the almost 50-year-old. There is a bit of a nationalist subtext, too:  the Brit abroad sees American characters as friendly and nave and the native Cretes as rather primitive and amusing.  The 14-year-old went on to read other novels by Mary Stewart and others like her but none matched THE MOONSPINNERS.  There is something about it that is better than what I know of its genre, and it may have sent me on the path to serious literature sooner rather than later as much as it sent me abroad.	2001-07-05
US	53041816	RFQBFRT34GSV5	0811201082	627156472	The Books in My Life (New Directions Paperbook)	Books	4	4	11	N	Y	My Dinner With Henry	Henry Miller's credo seems to be &quot;you are what you read.&quot;  In 1950 the author of the infamous Tropic books, TROPIC OF CANCER and TROPIC OF CAPRICORN, set out to explicate his life in terms of the books that influenced him.  THE BOOKS IN MY LIFE lunges about, talking about his influences, the writers he championed and his many prejudices (forget Shakespeare and formal education).  It's a bit like the film &quot;My Dinner With Andre,&quot; which succeeds as long as you think the conversation is brilliant and not overly egocentric.  Miller thinks it is brilliant.<br />To be honest, I spent a lot of time asking myself, Why am I reading this?  Why did I think it was a good idea? Why am I reading about someone else reading and not reading for myself and forming my own opinions? I do have a curiosity about what is on others' shelves and lists, I'm always looking for a new door to open and for good conversation, I agree that reading matters and Miller does respond to those impulses.  I did get barrels of conversation, there were some brilliant points and his self absorption can be amusing. However, I did not learn anything that made me want to read Miller's fiction or learn more about his life.  I was familiar with many of the works he championed but was not sufficiently convinced to run out and try those with which I was not.<br />Part of my struggle lies in the fact that the print is small and my eyes are over 40.  Interestingly, this edition carries a preface by Miller that observes that the original edition had very small print and this was better!  I have to wonder if the text is actually a reprint of the first edition, what with some uncorrected typos and misspellings in places and that tiny print which turned a 316 page book into something that felt closer to 450 pages. In some respects, Miller is more open minded than many of his peers, especially about the world's religions, but his language is saturated in the masculine imperative.	2001-06-20
US	53041816	R1KA756XRTZLSS	0345422783	460710962	How Reading Changed My Life	Books	5	28	33	N	Y	Five Stars For Accessibility	For this reader,  who is currently wading through Henry Miller's dense, challenging THE BOOKS IN MY LIFE, the short HOW READING CHANGED MY LIFE is more the comfortable touchstone for a middle-class, baby boomer whom Miller would have quickly dismissed if he had met her.  Quindlen validates our common habits.<br />Unlike many, including the nasty new breed known as aliterates, who struggle with the fear that reading might be a replacement for life and experience, she argues that reading IS experience.  It amplifies life's other experiences, it helps make meaning of them.  Thank you, Anna Quindlen, for settling that one once and for all.  I agree wholeheartedly with her appreciation of middlebrow beginnings.  As she points out, we get to the worthy stuff when we're ready and a young person struggling with MIDDLEMARCH will not easily turn into an adult who enjoys serious reading.  Think of it this way:  there are quite a few professional musicians out there who as eight-year-olds never played a sophisticated scherzo at their first piano recital, they played &quot;The Old Mill Song&quot;.<br />Yes, Quindlen includes lists but they are not haughty absolutes.  This is a slim book, an extended essay really, and it could be argued that she has only begun to scrape the surface.  Look at it this way, though: she lets us out of class early so we can go out and enjoy reading on our own.	2001-06-13
US	53041816	R1Z4GKTIVJ9MOK	0553213105	503057596	Pride and Prejudice (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	One of the Absolute Best	As much as I would like to, I don't reread books as a rule, even the most favorite, because life is short and there are a billion books to go before we sleep.  I do make an exception for PRIDE AND PREJUDICE however.  It is a masterpiece, a guiltless entertainment.  There are lots of laughs, some melodrama and romance which make it easy to knock back, like chocolate or a good wine.  There is, of course, much more to it, which makes it more than an indulgence.  Austen gets so much right:  she sets up a entire world and explains exactly how it works, what happens when it tips to its own excesses or when its players break its rules.  You could pitch a hardball at her window and it would bounce off, shattering nothing, that's how strong and clear it is.  She gets romantic love right, as well as all the mistakes everyone makes trying to get it right.  She spears bad behavior and holds it up on a stick.  She is very witty but never casual.  She burns up the page with truth-about her society, family interactions, human nature and the fact that no matter how civilized we become, we as a species are still at square one when it comes to managing the heart.  I see that some younger readers don't appreciate the depths this novel or its relevance for contemporary life:  maybe it's the way it is being (not) taught, but it could also be that readers have to be ready to appreciate the idea of an insular world that can bear timeless truths, and for younger adolescents, the world as yet has no edges but truth is limited to immediate circumstances.	2001-06-01
US	53041816	R14LVGD8CHQWDI	0743400828	415925706	Girl Talk	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Impressive Debut	Reading GIRL TALK is something like reading THE CHEERLEADER by Jill McCorkle, not that Julianna Baggott is a voice out of the New South (in fact, she is positioned to pioneer the New Northeast tradition).  THE CHEERLEADER was McCorkle's first novel, very decent, but then she published JULY 7th which did cartwheels around that first novel.  You can tell Baggott is ready to do cartwheels around GIRL TALK in her next novel, but it isn't published yet.  So, for the meantime, we have GIRL TALK, which is only a tad flawed.<br />GIRL TALK bounces between the present and her protagonist's and her protagonist's mother's pasts.  The narrator, a thirty year-old who works in advertising in New York finds herself pregnant by a married man who has dumped her.  Obviously, a path of choices led her to this predicament and as she makes meaning out of it, she revisits the turning points in hers and the lives of her mother and the cast of characters who attend them.  Most important is her fifteenth summer, when her father, in a rare lapse of responsibility, leaves to have an affair and she and her mother take a road trip from the comfortable New England doctor's house to her mother's origins in the Catholic working class neighborhoods of Bayonne, New Jersey.<br />There are some inspired and often comic characters and scenes that pepper GIRL TALK.  My favorite is a very misguided intervention that returns as a surprising and logical metaphor at the end of the story.  The flaw that marks this as a first novel is a slight imbalance:  in some passages there is too much telling rather than showing.  There is no constant open faucet of anger or cultural tradition (think New South) to empower the comedy fully, but then the intent of the story is to understand, not blow up.  It is a bit languid at times, but again, there are those inspired sections that do make it worthwhile.	2001-06-01
US	53041816	R192NLBU49N5WF	1852424214	677580811	Break It Down (High Risk Books)	Books	5	12	15	N	Y	Cutting Edge Fiction	In a rare miscue, Amazon has plugged in the Publisher's Weekly review of a murder mystery which this collection of cutting edge fiction is anything but.  This is short fiction by a rare voice.  Lots of writers have done very short fiction, lots have experimented with style, few get it right like Lydia Davis. She strips the conventions of fiction down to the barest essentials, often speaking from a removed perspective.  She adds just enough strokes of imagery, however, to warm it up and allow the reader to enjoy a rich experience.  Davis is in total control.  I highly recommend this volume to anyone who wants to know what is going on at the forefront of literary fiction.  Another note: this edition, a trade paperback, is of uncommon high quality, with a cover that sports flaps like the dust jacket on a hardcover.	2001-05-14
US	53041816	R3JV6B41BU3CA	094423514X	474207387	The American Cancer Society's Healthy Eating Cookbook: A Celebration of Food, Friends, and Healthy Living	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Good Resource	I purchased this book to support the American Cancer Society so I wasn't expecting it to be something I could necessarily use.  I was pleased to find that in fact it is very good.  Yes, as one of the other reviewers notes, it suggests cooking the shrimp too long in one recipe but the majority are solidly conceived and take everyday cooking to a more sophisticated and doable level.  This book can be appreciated by beginners and experienced cooks.  The recipes emphasize fresh, whole ingredients but occasionally use convenience foods like canned beans. The conversions charts are up-to-date, thorough and user-friendly. I did not need the celebrity pictures and their recipes, but it is nice to know they support a very important cause.	2001-05-03
US	53041816	R3B1G691GODRX9	0141180250	766250177	Passing	Books	5	8	10	N	Y	Should be on every American's &quot;Must Read&quot; list	PASSING by Nella Larsen is astonishing on many levels.  As a piece of imaginative writing, it succeeds as an assured, honest performance.  Though its spine is comprised of ideas, it is vividly fleshed out in complex characters, nicely evoked settings and natural dialogue.  At first its narrative style struck me as 19th century in style, but as I read I became more and more impressed with how well the descriptive passages used modern psychology.  It is very sophisticated, offering a rare level of insight.  As a  record of the American experience, it is equally fine, throwing open the doors on the Harlem Renaissance of the early 20th century and race relations of that era. I have a better understanding of the past and present of the African American experience and the implications of the act of passing for having read it. It deserves to be enjoyed as a good novel with wonderful characters. It deserves to be read as a living work of art and testimony, not as a historical curiosity.  It should be on every American's syllabus.	2001-04-19
US	53041816	R13D95BFF0YUGY	1573228583	407492360	Speaking with the Angel	Books	5	8	11	N	Y	Top 8 Reasons List (for getting this book)	Top 8 reasons to purchase/read SPEAKING WITH THE ANGEL:   1. It's a theme album featuring first person narrative fiction by 10 of Britain's lit hip novelists and 2 Americans.  It resembles &quot;A Chorus Line,&quot; sort of, if a book could. 2. You've actually read Helen Fielding (BRIDGET JONES DIARY) but you only know Hornby and Doyle from movies based on their novels (HIGHFIDELITY and THE COMMITMENTS, respectively), Colin Firth from his acting (&quot;Pride and Prejudice,&quot; &quot;Shakespeare In Love&quot;), Dave Eggers and Melissa Bank, the Americans, from all the talk about their books which you may have purchased but haven't read yet.  This is a chance to say at the next soiree, &quot;Ah, yes, I really have read them all.&quot; 3. You, being American, never heard of Paul Harris, Patrick Marber, John O'Farrell,Giles Smith,Zadie Smith and Irvine Welsh and here's a painless way to spread your wings a little.  Otherwise, you being something other than American, here's a chance to find out who Dave Eggers and Melissa Bank are. 4. You've had your nose in American writing of late and could use some of that Bristish Isles irony. 5. You feel the need to catch up on current English, Irish and Scottish slang. 6. Most of the stories are very, very good.  A few may not be to your liking, but you'll get past them soon enough.  You don't want to miss the Hornby, Doyle or O'Farrell pieces, especially.  Eggers' story is a lesson in rhythm.  Firth is a surprise:  Mr. Darcy writes! 7. SPEAKING WITH THE ANGEL is for a good cause:  proceeds benefit a London school for autistic children, one of them Hornby's son.  8. You've been casting about for an idea for a fundraiser project yourself and this, if you know some writers, is a fantastic template to steal.	2001-04-10
US	53041816	R28QAOW0JMOCJ3	1890447269	311322713	My Misspent Youth: Essays	Books	5	18	22	N	Y	A Rising Star	After reading just one essay by Meghan Daum when it first appeared in The New Yorker, coincidentally the title piece of MY MISSPENT YOUTH, I wanted more, more, more of her prose.  So I was understandably thrilled when a recent web search turned up this first collection of her work and, having read it, I am even more thrilled.  She is really, really good.  She's so good, she's scary.  Daum's pieces share in common what she calls a point, which someone else bent on stuffy superlatives might call an overarching theme.  Either way, she's not imposing some pat formula on life but has pulled out a bona fide truth about the human condition in its many different circumstances, that we simultaneously operate in two worlds, one a concoction of dreams, prejudices and cultural conditioning, the other, reality.  Each of her essays is a moment of reckoning, of understanding how the imagined world has tipped the real one, of having to bow to the real one.  In unflinching prose that just sweeps along, she pursues truth as a player, occasionally as a witness.  The quality of her work reminds me of what Carol Burnett said about having no choice but to become the star because she was a misfit in the chorus: Daum, incapable of following through on requests that she submit to puppy mill essaying on Gen-X preoccupations (she's about 31), has positioned herself in the territory of Joan Didion and our finest cultural commentators.	2001-03-27
US	53041816	RHOJR4ZTS1BNE	0060976241	591681693	The Lone Ranger and Tonto Fistfight in Heaven	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Exceeds Five Stars	Sherman Alexie knocks me out.  He breathes original life into the art of literary fiction while laying out the realities of contemporary Native American Indian existence.  The LONE RANGER AND TONTO FISTFIGHT IN HEAVEN is a collection of confluent short stories that can also be read as a novel.  In fact they can be read much the same way as Cortezar's HOPSCOTCH, that is, in any particular order, and the whole still adds up with the motion and fury of a novel.<br />Each story is a picture of life on or apart from the Spokane Reservation in Washington state.  Alexie moves between voices and perspectives, from the aspect of Reservation children trying to dream of a future amid the oppressive poverty to the adults who often have lost the possibility of purpose.  He moves seamlessly between dark wit and profound tragedy, uncovering a multi-layered existence of which white culture has no equal, no comprehension.  Yes, he is angry, but he informs readers, he does not beat us up, and he gives us a beautiful literary experience to boot.  And more praise:  read his other novels, particularly RESERVATION BLUES which shares characters, settings and themes, and be astounded at how Alexie is not redundant but is able to further push his dialogue and artistic borders.	2001-03-22
US	53041816	R36RUSBUXTOAJG	0452281873	484266792	Leonard Maltin's Movie and Video Guide 2001 (Leonard Maltin's Movie Guide)	Books	5	1	3	N	Y	Essential Reference	There is a room devoted to books at my house but two references are permanent fixtures in the living room: the OED and Leonard Maltin's Movie and Video Guide.  Maltin's is the most comprehensive movie/video guide I've found.  I had purchased previous editions off shelves in bookstores, never knowing that it is available in trade (i.e.,larger) size.  This (Plume) edition is much easier to read than the mass-market version and is thus worth the extra few dollars if your eyes, like mine, are beginning to show their age. I appreciate the fact that Maltin does not dispense with some of the older or more obscure entries as he updates the listings.  This proves to be a useful tool even when you don't agree with the ratings. It's a great gift for anyone who subscribes to movie channels or rents videos.	2001-03-13
US	53041816	R2TQEL4HMRZUYM	0061097160	907405669	Square in the Face: A Claire Montrose Mystery	Books	1	6	10	N	N	Clumsy fluff	Unless you are a mystery genre junkie in need of a fix, any fix, I would not go here.  I am sorry to be harsh but I just don't see how this book was accepted for publication.  It reads as if written by a presumptious 9th grader.  The characters are walking lists of traits void of genuine psychological nuance.  I once lived in Portland, Oregon but do not recognize it as the half-evoked setting of this story.  Facts morph, like the French twist on one page that becomes a French braid on another.  Facts are overlooked:  if you introduce a contemporary unattached adult female character from a working class background who apparently has no day job, please clue the rest of the world in on how to succeed at living without being gainfully employed!  I did not read the first book in this series and thus do not have any background information other than vague, confusing references to a painting.  Send the author back to school.  Make her study literature, traditional and contemporary, classical and pop, written by and for adults.  Make her study the conventions of fiction writing.  Explain what Chekov meant by showing a gun in the first act. Throw in a course on human psychology.  Then hire a proactive editor.  Light fare does not have to be devoid of nutrients.	2001-03-09
US	53041816	R11307CVB8O0SY	0140144188	372546981	Journal of a Novel: The East of Eden Letters	Books	5	79	81	N	Y	Highly recommended	Steinbeck wrote the lengthy EAST OF EDEN saga straight through, from January to the first of November, in 1951.  Every weekday, he sharpened his beloved pencils, sat down and warmed up, writing in the form of a letter to his friend and publisher, Pascal Covici.  The letters he entered on the left side of the manuscript book Covici hand given him; on the right side, after clearing his mind and setting out the days' goals, he'd write his story, averaging about 1,500 words a day.  JOURNAL OF A NOVEL collects those daily addresses to Covici, to whom EAST OF EDEN is dedicated.<br />On the one hand, JOURNAL OF A NOVEL is instructive in how to use journaling to order one's demons, to focus and forge ahead.  More important, it brings the reader right up to the man, and Steinbeck is a fascinating person to know.  At age 48 when he produced this, he is twice divorced, happily remarried a third time, engaged in fatherhood and transplanted to New York.  He is a whittler, a tinkerer, an inventor.  His credo is, why pay someone to do something badly that he can do just as badly himself.  He maintains an active family, professional and social life that he chattily reports and offers some prescient observations on the Marshall Plan and MacArthur.  He is not without his depressive cycles, but at this point in his life he is more understanding of them and never lets them interfere with his work.  His resolve is extraordinary.<br />It is especially rich to read this following WORKING DAYS, the journal he kept as he wrote THE GRAPES OF WRATH.  You get a sense of personal growth and a fuller sense of the middle of the 20th century through his eyes.<br />Highly recommended.	2001-03-07
US	53041816	R3MUTR73N0A78T	0743203984	503232720	Flu: The Story Of The Great Influenza Pandemic of 1918 and the Search for the Virus that Caused It	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	An interesting but unfinished story	The scientist reader probably greets Gia Kolata's lucid book Flu with,&quot;been there, know that,&quot; but the rest of us can get some mileage out of it.  Kolata takes the 1918 flu pandemic and plays it out as a real-life murder mystery, dishing out explanations of virology as well as cultural and historical notes as she follows a variety of characters chase after the solution.  The 1918 pandemic was lethal, cutting a swath across the population, killing more robust young American adults in one year than were killed in all the major wars of the 20th century combined.  When it was done, the flu disappeared as quickly as it came and for reasons that are not fully explored in the book, America relegated the experience to obscurity.  No one knew what strain it was or how to vaccinate against it in the future. Occasionally, in ensuing decades, a scientist would reconsider the mystery, but it wasn't until a few years ago that two teams simultaneously scrambled for body tissue of 1918 victims buried in the permafrost of Alaska and Norway, and a solution was in sight.  The very expensive, media-attended Norwegian attempt was unsuccessful while the Alaskan trek, funded out of pocket, was in, out and got the goods very quietly.<br />And there, suddenly, Kolata stops.  It's like pulling the keys out of the ignition of a car that's plummeting across Interstate 80.  Up to this point, the book is very interesting and I feet a little cheated out of the climax. That aside, I learned from this very readable book, especially how my own misconceptions about flu vaccinations (I have avoided them) were shaped by the political and media bumbling surrounding the 1976 swine flu epidemic.  I also understand the science of virology better.  Kolata is not one of the players but her prose transcends technical writing and conveys the thrill of the hunt.	2001-02-20
US	53041816	R1Q1YBBYYJRV2T	0553051954	958766313	The Greens Cookbook: Extraordinary Vegetarian Cuisine from the Celebrated Restaurant	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Wonderful Food	I purchased this years ago and still use it, especially for its basic fresh pasta recipes.  Deborah Madison is one of my all-time favorite food writers and it is interesting to see that while she has branched out considerably since this book, it still remains fresh alongside her more recent writing.  I've served these recipes to carnivores and no one ever asks where the beef is.  I also recommend The Savory Way, a book she later wrote after moving away from the resources of California's farmer's markets and learning to work with ingredients that may be more in keeping with what the rest of us find in local stores.	2001-02-15
US	53041816	R319BYR0IER5JM	1579651275	873332944	Grains, Rice and Beans	Books	5	17	17	N	N	The Pyramid Goes Gourmet	This book's selling point for me is its emphasis on whole foods.  It is great for anyone who is trying to de-emphasize meat in their diets and build up the grains, fruits and vegetables.  The recipes are fairly easy to follow--a beginner might be left guessing how big a &quot;medium&quot; zucchini really is, but technique is explained well.  The ingredient list is within reach of most supermarkets.  The recipes themselves are original and come out looking like the pictures.  Many are naturally low-fat and those that are not use the healthiest fats when called for.  Butter is scarcely used and I don't think cream is mentioned anywhere. I enjoy reading and cooking from this. My only criticism is negligible:  for far-sighted people, even those assisted with monovision contacts or bifocals, the type in which ingredient quantities are set, particularly the fractions, is difficult to read.	2001-02-15
US	53041816	R2WSC8RQ2MAP95	1894160010	904266781	Plenty: A Collection of Sarah McLachlan's Favorite Recipes	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Fine food, workable recipes	I purchased this cookbook because I cook and because there is a major Sarah McLachlan fan in my house.  Okay, I like her, too.  Anyway, the cook here is very happy with this book which relies on easy to prepare Mediterranean style recipes.  The recipes are courtesy of the chef who catered Sarah's band on the Lilith Fair tour out of a tiny mobile kitchen.  If he can do it, so can those of us with real kitchens.  Many recipes are vegetarian with the occasional dairy or fish ingredient.  Many are also low-fat.  All are gorgeous, satisfying and should suit most tastes. I am envious of the fact that Sarah was backstage eating this great food while I was in the audience, restricted from 3 p.m. until midnight to eating what was sold &quot;in the venue.&quot;  Note to future festival organizers:  some of us don't do fries, nachos with orange cheese, hotdogs and funnel cakes (I attended Lilith in central Pennsylvania). Some of us like vegetables, just like Sarah.	2001-02-05
US	53041816	R3M7ALMQNS4QCX	0805063579	980137608	Author Unknown: On the Trail of Anonymous	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Silky, intelligent, suspenseful reading	It may have been a short five years for the rest of us, but since 1996, when he first attracted attention for the attribution to Shakespeare of a hitherto anonymous elegy, mild-mannered English professor Don Foster has lived a suspenseful lifetime from the secretive inner sanctum of Quantico to the glare of national media.  Foster pioneered the identification of authors of unattributed documents through the analysis of language structure, word choice and stylistic quirks.  Foster avers that each person's usage is unique and objectifiable like DNA and fingerprints.  It was he who successfully outed Joe Klein as the author of Primary Colors and just recently proved that Clement Clark Moore plagiarized 'Twas The Night Before Christmas.  In Author Unknown, Foster takes us for a ride among some of his more colorful cases.  His narrative is silky, intelligent, full of suspense.  He provides valuable historical background and does a fine job of fleshing out the human players, even those long dead.  Though Foster never editorializes--he stands back in wonder with the rest of us--his story emerges as a fascinating commentary on the nature of truth and human motivation.  Foster is a very decent Everyman which makes this work all the more attractive.  I'm recommending it left and right.	2001-01-31
US	53041816	R3FWF02PCL1042	0446672351	454210807	Reservation Blues	Books	5	85	88	N	N	A Major Talent Tells An Important Story	Through the entertaining story of the rise and fall of a Spokane garage band, Sherman Alexie manages to pack the complexities and frustrations of contemporary Native American Indian life on and off the Reservation.  Though his narrative is full of droll wit, his themes are profound.  He speaks of the poverty, alcoholism and broken family structure that haunt reservations, of the meanness of HUD housing, surplus food and the local police.  As for co-existence with whites:  any white left after reading this who thinks white culture understands and treats Indians better these days is as dense as they come.  The author explores how outside culture bids for the Indian soul.  There is an identity crisis for sure, a rattling sense of purposelessness.  Infusing the story with mythic components that extend beyond specific ethnic borders, the author expresses the anger without hate and searches for purpose and redemption.  His sentence structure is deceptively straightforward.  It drips with allusion and music. In a few strokes, each character becomes a fully developed individual.  I hadn't read this talented writer's work before and am in awe of his voice.<br />Some of the other reviewers have mentioned that a movie will be made of this.  It will be a challenge to deliver what the book does.  What happens to the band, Coyote Springs, at the hands of the New York record company in the book is not good and I wouldn't want Hollywood to do that to this fine work. On the other hand, Alexie is knowing, so I trust he has been careful in letting it go.	2001-01-24
US	53041816	RIXPON3BIMKQ1	0679450149	702064794	The Writer's Desk	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Oddly affecting	First let me say that I am attached to my copy of The Writer's Desk.  It may not leave the house.  Get your own!<br />That said, I have to profess some mystery as to the depth of my own feeling or why someone should purposely purchase this for themselves. It is a small scale coffee table book for English majors, a nice gift for the contemporary lit minded or a gem to pluck off a sale table for oneself.  Krementz's black and white photographs speak of her talent though I'm not sure I learn that much from them.  They are more like illustrations for text that is all but missing, except for brief author quotes, or like roped off rooms in a writer's house turned local museum.  But that's the problem we have with any creative artist--we can collect and assemble the physical life molecule by molecule (anyone here read Flaubert's Parrot?) and we will never quite understand how those great sentences get shaped the way they do.<br />At least we can marvel at the conditions under which those sentences get down, how each writer exerts order and control in a corner of their lives, to get their work done.	2001-01-16
US	53041816	R2Y6TZE5SMA5U0	0822956934	435150948	Appalachian Summer	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Lots of lessons on nature, and a few about being human, too	Appalachian Summer is the third of Marcia Bonta's season chronicles of the natural life that populates the mountain in central Pennsylvania that she and her family call home.  As with all her books, Appalachian Summer is a bounty of historical and scientific facts about nature.  The first in her seasonal series, Appalachian Spring, duly reports the natural life unfolding from winter.  In the second, Appalachian Fall, her daily journal also picks up a sinister subplot as an unethical lumberer threatens the mountain and local wildlife.  In this new volume, the Bontas have taken back the land ravaged from timbering and the natural observations haromonize with more personal notes about family events.  An appreciation of the fragility of life shadows the family's happiness though when the search for a missing child and her abductor moves onto their land.  Bonta never forgets, however, that her mission in sharing her journal is to bring the reader up close to the wonders of nature and this she does in clear prose that tinkles with the exotic names of the plant and animal life that share our planet but are infrequently observed or respected.  I regret there is only one season left for her to profile.  When I read Bonta's books, I not only learn more about nature, I learn more about humankind.	2001-01-12
US	53041816	R2H4TTK1XQRTYD	0156505304	627415052	Let Us Build Us A City: Eleven Lost Towns	Books	5	18	18	N	N	A Treasure Found Off the Beaten Path	It gives me faith in the publishing industry to find this wonderful book still in print. Donald Harington was an established Arkansas novelist when a reader named Kim wrote him out of the blue expressing the inspiration she drew from one of his stories.  Harington was lecturing out of state at the time but he responded with encouragement for a project looking into the history of Arkansas places that had &quot;City&quot; in the name and were anything but.  So, Kim took off, doing the leg work and dispatching her findings to Harington who eventually shaped them into this symphony of historical fact and human tragedies and comedies.  As soon has he was able, he caught up with Kim and the two became instant soul mates.  Their own story is woven into this unique blend of fact and imaginative invocation of original intentions and relinquished dreams.  A pleasure to read, it sparks curiosity about the cities that never grew up in your own state (the author includes a state by state list) and a desire to go learn their stories.  This is a unique story, very human, very American.	2001-01-09
US	53041816	R2IKQGA7Q43LQK	0553107380	601975576	Pawing Through the Past (Mrs. Murphy Mysteries)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Rita Mae and Sneaky Pie back in form	Not a dedicated mystery reader, I don't comparison shop for them much, but I feel this is in the 5 star range.  I've found comfort in the Rita Mae Brown/Sneaky Pie Brown series and this is where I tend to vacation when in need of a lighter touch.  This is one of the stronger entries of recent volumes in the line.  I like the human characters, the animals they love and who love them foibles and all in return, as well as the rural Virginia small town world.  That world is well observed as are human quirks.  Brown is at her best when she stays true to that sense of community and how it functions when evil descends or blooms from within.  Mrs. Hoggendopper gets a pleasant new lease on life in Pawing Through the Past through the occasion of her 50th high school reunion while the series' human  heroine, Harry, and her friends get a deadly deal out of their 20th.  Harry is moody this time out, looks like it will take at least another book in the series to work out her feelings about things.  FYI to the Browns:  no need to (re)marry Harry off to keep my allegiance.  As for the mystery--yeah, I figured it out, but the Browns kept me guessing as to the correctness of my suspicions right up to the denoument.	2001-01-05
US	53041816	RN13L4KT9G2B	0802130747	719304522	Lonesome Traveler	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Another roller coaster ride from Kerouac, this non-fiction	&quot;Creative non-fiction&quot; is a come lately term but it fits Jack Kerouac's 1960 account of his real life travels and experiences.  The spontaneous, experimental style that marks his fiction is in high use in Lonesome Traveler, particularly in the chapter devoted to the railroad.  In that piece, language becomes a mimic of the sounds and rhythms of the environment in which he works, the Southern Pacific runs between San Francisco and San Jose in the early 1950's. Forget words and structure as you know it, but don't worry about getting lost in the prose.  If you trust Kerouac, he won't let you get lost, he brings you home in the end.  As he visits Mexico, the shipping lanes, the streets of New York, a lone fire look-out on Desolation Peak in Washington State, and Europe, he speaks openly of what drives him.  The last chapter is an ode to the vanishing hobo whose ethic he has embraced; as this was written, our changing society was transforming hobos into vagrant criminals and the homeless problem, extinguishing their culture with suspicion and policing.  Kerouac is both Thoreau and the hobo, the fine or wide line  depending upon how you look at it being his education and pursuit of spirituality.	2001-01-02
US	53041816	R1DFRU7VVZ7N48	0140144579	238182681	Working Days: The Journals of The Grapes of Wrath	Books	5	35	36	N	Y	A journal of a masterpiece getting written	Working Days is for Steinbeck readers or any student of creative processes and habits of successful people.  John Steinbeck wrote the beefy The Grapes of Wrath like a freight train, averaging 2,000 words a day in longhand, from June through October, 1938. He did not do this in isolation.  He got up an average of five days a week, had breakfast, wrote in his journal, then went to work until early evening, while hammers from neighborhood construction pounded relentlessly, amid human intrusions of all kinds, a souring stomach and self doubt.  He was a purposeful journal-keeper, using it to set the goals for the day, to talk himself into character development and plot movement.  No doubt the journal also served to subconsiously swat away the distractions so he could focus on the work.  Working Days is edited by Robert Demott who has seemingly devoted his career to the meticulous scrutiny of Steinbeck's life, works and habits.  If there can be a criticism of this volume, it's that Demott hovers too much; his is, for instance, one of the longest critical introductions I've come across.  But this does not detract from the enjoyment of crawling around in Steinbeck's mind, which the journal freely permits.	2001-01-02
US	53041816	R1O3A3M77TPTN7	0670892963	787771217	Bridget Jones : The Edge of Reason	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Not the inimitable Diary, but it has Bridget	If you have not read Bridget Jones' Diary first, go do so before reading The Edge of Reason.  Okay, done that?  Now of course you want more, but how can anything rival the Diary?  It can't.  But if you want to spend more time with Bridget, at least this book affords that.  Whereas Bridget was a tapestry of neatly woven plot lines with echoes of Jane Austen, The Edge of Reason is like several story lines running parallel down a track, some falling down short, others overshooting the finish line, not one mixing too well with another. The timing's off. But The Edge of Reason has its laughs and it has Bridget, who in the worst moments, like in a Thai jail, always pops up a survivor. For those who don't know:  the real Colin Firth is set to play Mark Darcy in the film based on Diary.	2001-01-02
US	53041816	R24OG19R5TU2FZ	0345324250	589824021	The Zimmermann Telegram	Books	5	2	3	N	N	An enjoyable, and edifying, good read	I approached this as a general reader in search of a good read, not as a historian.  It was a good read, and I learned much more about a piece of our history that I last studied nearly 30 years ago.  Tuchman writes with urgency and though her work is well documented, her narrative is never bogged down by wavering, stuttering scholarspeak or footnotes that lie like logs and potholes on the way to the next sentence.  Some may argue her premise, that the revelation of the Zimmerman telegraph was the one motivator that would compel Wilson to finally send American troops into World War I combat, but Tuchman makes a persuasive case.  Her strengths beyond a capable writing style lie in character development of the players on two sides of the Atlantic and an ability to track all of their movements with clarity as they converge on the fateful entrance of the US into the conflict.  In reading this, I was reminded that our contemporary Congress is not unique in its image-conscious, bull-headed, snappish judgment.  I was especially taken by what is obviously a legacy of the Civil War, the deep-rooted American fear of conflict on its own soil.	2000-12-20
US	53041816	R4NZ0W3VSA2ID	0898154502	24445030	The After-Dinner Gardening Book	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Deserves to be reissued	This is a gardening book with a witty, narrative personality.  Until it's reissued, and it should be, it's on my list of books to rescue from a burning building.  Langer is a nom de plum according to my vintage 70's paperback and for the last 25+ years I've wondered, who is that masked man? In searching just now, I learned he has continued to sporadically publish cooking and gardening books into the 1990's under the name of Langer, always with an illustrator named Susan McNeill.  The fact of the illustrator is of interest because Langer often mentions his wife named Susan in the book, her character emerging as the involuntary poster child for tolerance of spousal obsessions.  I had wondered if their marriage, not to mention her sewing shears, had survived his early adventures in plant science.  And yes, by the way, his advice is practical and I've gotten some plants out of it over the years.	2000-12-20
US	53041816	R313OHRUI90OJX	1560250119	537847256	50 Ways to Fight Censorship: And Important Facts to Know About the Censors	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Update it, bring it back	The question:  can a ten-year-old topical reference still be relevant?  The answer:  in the case of 50 Ways to Fight Censorship, you bet.  This slim, plain-speaking book by former Rolling Stone editor Dave Marsh, with several contributors who range from author and Paris Review editor George Plimpton to poet Allen Ginsberg and a television writer, has very sound, constitutional advice that remains current, even if it was around before the Internet.  Now that the Supreme Court has conferred the presidential tiara on George W. Bush, we are seeing the return of the right-wing censors of the Reagan-Bush era, like Dick Cheney and James Baker.  We already have been hearing proposals for limiting speech on the Internet.  We need a manual like this to make sure we act, not just react, to preserve our first and most fundamental right as Americans, to speak freely and to decide for ourselves what is appropriate to read, hear and view.	2000-12-15
US	53041816	R15XBUI13FP3TJ	0140277471	624542054	Blanche Cleans Up	Books	4	0	0	N	N	There is only one Blanche, and Neely's got her	A blurber once wrote for the cover of an Amanda Cross mystery that she reads Cross's Kate Fansler series for the &quot;conversation.&quot;  That's how I feel about the Blanche White series:  read them for the company.  I fell off the dedicated mystery reading wagon years ago, so I'm out of the league when it comes to rating the whodunit part, except to say it did not seem too obvious or too illogical.  This is the third in the series, the best to date.  Blanche is so very fully realized, so complex, her voice so powerful that by contrast the other characters come off a little thin at times.  I share Neely's glee in making evil drip from every pore of the right-wing political types and their bedfellows. Through Blanche, though, she also offers more evenhanded contemplations on the social realities of the working poor and race.	2000-12-08
US	53041816	R2ATQMXT79O2VP	0374521190	519912141	Poison Penmanship: The Gentle Art of Muckraking	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Deserves to be reprinted	I was sorry to see that this has gone out of print.  The late Jessica Mitford, author of the American Way of Death, was a fine investigative journalist and just plain good writer.  In Poison Penmanship she gleefully shares her adventures in the trade.  She was fearless and zestful; obviously enjoyed the ruckus she kicked up, whether taking on the &quot;death industry,&quot; the penal system, or a restaurant review.  She is missed; so is this book.	2000-12-04
US	53041816	R3C97QBRKGOX97	0140283579	825983686	Minor Characters: A Beat Memoir	Books	5	36	36	N	Y	Read it for Joyce, not just Jack	Joyce Johnson's memoir of emerging from an overprotected childhood and landing at the center of the Beat movement in the 1950's is a delight whether you choose to read it for its portrait of Jack Kerouac, for the world that was, or for the inner journey it reveals.  It is a fine literary performance.  Johnson plays with tense and perspective as if they form a telescopic lens sliding the past out of a fuzzy black and white still photograph into a vivid, colorful present.  There is a suspenseful tension to the book from which flows a novelistic structure, never, though, at the expense of truth.  Johnson gets down like no one else how it is to carry around that overprotected childhood, to always feel that you could be missing something, that the center has yet to be achieved.  Her inner struggle matches the themes of the Beats who are seeking the pure experience of being through their music, their talk, their drugs and alcohol, their lovemaking, their travels and their poetry.  She nails the paradox of a quarry that can never sit still, whether it is a person, like Kerouac, or her friend and guide into the Beat world, Elise Cowen, both of whom eventually disappear into their demons.  She captures the loss of balance when counterculture is encroached upon by the mainstream. She manages to convey all this without telling, just through showing the events of her life.  Johnson is wry but never bitter, she takes full responsibility for her own choices and actions.  This is a book that invites the reader to share the wonder that this was all, indeed, real.	2000-11-29
US	53041816	R1H0EGWPP7WDYO	0452267307	985007230	Excellent Women	Books	5	139	146	N	Y	Witty, perceptive, belongs on a syllabus somewhere	Don't leap to the assumption that a book written fifty years ago about an unmarried do-gooding gentle woman would have nothing for a contemporary audience.  Despite its London church parish setting well populated with the spinsterish &quot;excellent women&quot; of the title, Pym's book delivers sharp observations about men and women, together and apart, and society's expectations for all.  Her truths are pungent a sexual revolution later.<br />Relevancy aside, this is a good read.  Pym lays out her well-defined world much as Jane Austen does, providing a critical and always witty tour.  The characters are drawn as sharply as any Austen delivered.  The novel is entertaining but rewardingly complex as it probes not only gender and social mores but also asks if Mildred Lathbury, the protagonist and narrator, is choosing the life of an excellent woman or if she is saddled with it.  To use a contemporary phrase, it is about having a life, and this deceivingly gentle-seeming book is asking questions that are as rugged and significant as any asked in our less regulated times.	2000-11-20
US	53041816	R135MVE5OPNSPC	0440414806	159975375	Holes	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Adult to Adults:  Read It!	&quot;You really need to read this,&quot; said a colleague friend aware of my trials as a civil servant.  &quot;Really.&quot;  Ordinarily, I don't look back to literature for younger readers given how many great adult books are out there to read before I die.  This, however, is worth the brief time it takes to enjoy it.  The quality of writing is excellent:  a clean, swift economic style delivers vivid imagery.  Plots and subplots are gracefully interwoven.  The message about hope and redemption may be old as the hills but the execution is an original, absurdist vision of a cruel detention center for youths on a sun-scorched plain.  Most of all, I liked our hero, Stanley Yelnats, he of the palindromic name, overweight, unpopular and too often set up to take the fall.  He may be hapless but never self-pitying.  He never looks back, he never loses the self, he never loses hope. You can overlook the plot coincidences, you can overlook the absurdity because it makes perfect sense in its own world.	2000-11-01
US	53041816	RH2PMNUXUJM9M	0140185216	303305496	On the Road (Penguin 20th Century Classics)	Books	5	73	95	N	N	A 20th Century Classic	In a time reverse way, I felt dated, reading this very modern piece of writing with my postmodern consciousness.  At first I felt like I was in the ejector seat of a convertible without seatbelts doing 110 MPG with a drugged or drunk driver commandeering the steering wheel.  Well, we the readers, not to mention the characters, are.  But all the boozing, drugs, women, and breaking of various Commandments don't have the consequences we'd expect in a more recent novel.  Instead, we learn about the holy pursuit of getting high on life, especially as it is lived on the edge.  A gang of characters is wrapped like a hurricane's winds around Dean Moriarty whose bipolar (postmodern judgment there) energy flows inspire antic cross country road trips across several years.  In a book that's fueled by organic movement, there comes the day when the characters have to move on and away after they have achieved the highest (literally) point in their travels, and that's the ultimate consequence, that the momentum dissipates.<br />I had put off reading this book, thinking I couldn't handle one long abstract rant, which it isn't, though I'd picked up that impression somewhere.  Kerouac sings like Whitman in a voice that is at once poetic and yet concretely journalistic. It is urgent, thus propelling its content, peeling away the past and future. There is artistic skill and knowledge at work in every sentence. <br />I read the critical introduction last, so it would not color my experience.  It is an excellent introduction, one addressing more autobiographical detail than text, but all the same, read it as an afterward; I think Kerouac would want you to live the book unfettered by context.	2000-10-25
US	53041816	R270JBJZGIEUP8	0879233788	429262077	Rogues in the Gallery: The Modern Plague of Art Thefts	Books	3	0	0	N	N	No Need To Reissue For Now	Fifteen years ago, when I still thought I would have all the time in the  world to read anything that seemed the least bit interesting, when final  clearance on the remaindered/damaged  tables got you new books for just 10  cents apiece, I picked this up.  I have finally read it.  Yes:  I learned  something about the history of art theft.  Yes: it was interesting.  No:  don't go to the trouble of reissuing it for now.  A new chapter in art  theft has opened up since this was written, new light shed on some of the  incidents McLeave reports.  Even if it were updated, I'm not sure it would  stand up to the scrutiny of today's critic:  Two thirds of the way through  the book, the author confirms what I had suspected all along, that his  information sources were largely the police involved in the investigations.   He peeps over their shoulders; he does not get up close to the actual  subject, the thief.  Of course, some had died, but some were still around  when this was written.  The book lacks well-defined personalities.	2000-09-19
US	53041816	RP59YH9T9YDS4	0517595001	860072810	At Home with Books: How Booklovers Live with and Care for Their Libraries	Books	4	14	14	N	Y	Wish There Had Been More to It	This is a stunning coffee table book for book lovers, particularly people  who keep their books.  I gave it to myself as I began a huge project that  includes rearranging, cleaning and inventorying my books, as well as  painting the room and shelves.  It was a needed punch in the arm, but be  warned that as practical information goes, it is hit and miss.  Good advice  on deciding what to keep, what to move on; no information on how those  people with all those books keep them clean (I don't count the person who  had everything slip-jacketed). I would have liked more detailed advice on  organizing systems. I wish, too, there had been more variety to the  libraries shown, though it was a pleasant surprise to find Keith Richards  and writer Roger Rosenblatt in here, the latter perhaps more of a  touchstone to us of middle-class abodes than some of the palace-owners  profiled.  The rooms stacked to ceilings with unshelved books were not an  inspiration. That's what I'm trying to run from.	2000-09-19
US	53041816	RJ25ITUWJXD2F	0394490029	247604122	Jeannette's secrets of everyday good cooking	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Personable Primer	My mother gave me the mass market copy of this cookbook back in 1977 after  I confessed some first apartment kitchen goofs. It takes traditional French  cooking and strips it down for accessible everyday meals. I not only  learned techniques, I learned lifestyle.  No professional level equipment  is necessary to get along with this, no all night dishwashing is a  consequence, no expensive ingredients are mandated.  By today's standards,  the amount of butter used may seem excessive and the book's retro-ness is  evidenced in the complete absence of jalapenos and other hot chiles.  I  still make Jeanette's baguette recipe and I've used the theory behind her  soup recipes to build many of my own.  The author's cheery personality  shines through and she talks about how she gets the meals to the table, no  small feat for a professional musician with young children. Too bad it's  out of print; young harried types can learn from this.	2000-09-13
US	53041816	R2AIET1D40SJSN	0553345435	98287932	It Was Gonna Be Like Paris	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	You Are There: early 1980's Manhattan	... Every generation wants its twenties to be like Hemingway'stwenties in Paris, poor in pocket but rich in creative work, artist companions, great conversation and wine.  Except on the lower east side of Manhattan in the 1980's, the artist part gets buried in drugs, booze, dancing 'til dawn in clubs.  Love gets mangled in the partying, too.  This is told brilliantly, unapologetically, in the voice of Sara who is resisting her family's call back to the suburbs, back to dependable, bland men and unexciting, secure jobs.  Written in the time it portrays, just before AIDS changes everything, it is straightforward, not dripping with the irony of hindsight or regret. Above all, it is written with artistry, rendered in short cuts where every word is crafted, every word counts.  It is of a particular time and place, but not dated.  It is more honest than Bright Lights, Big City, more genuine than the recent retro film 200 Cigarettes.	2000-08-25
US	53041816	R3DKMM7CX9MU4W	0520225821	149895432	In Search of England: Journeys into the English Past	Books	4	19	22	N	Y	Author Makes You Think With Him	As an American I am experiencing a cutting sense of loss of cultural  companionship as society seems determined to aim for the lowest common  denominator in the media. I feel loss as noisy interstates plow through  once quiet countryside, as houses in my historic neighborhood fall prey to  careless landlords and tenants while homeowners rip up fields and woods for  treeless MacMansion estates. Storefronts downtown are empty as franchises  line higher traffic roads. I used to think, Oh to be in England where they  leave things in place.  That's why I bought this book, only to learn Wood  is as bereft over his culture as I am about mine. There is much I did not  expect in this book; especially, I did not expect the author to walk me  through his evaluation processes as he pieces together evidence to show  what is left or what we can know about England.  He puts the reader to work  thinking with him. It was a good exercise, though a bit challenging because  Wood was really speaking to an English audience and assumed some knowledge  I didn't have (I found a chronological list of monarchs on the Internet and  a more detailed map which helped).  Wood also reminds us gently, at the  end, that as sorry our losses, life and history are evolving, we can't  expect to freeze life. So right.  So what you get out of this book is  perspective and an interesting look at how a historian thinks.	2000-08-22
US	53041816	R37DA1UB8C448J	0195121228	338790436	Lighting Out for the Territory: Reflections on Mark Twain and American Culture	Books	5	6	8	N	N	idiosyncratic, thought-provoking outing	Bear with me for a moment:  Sometime around 7th grade, a teacher had my  class keep scrapbooks with modern representations of Greek mythology.  How  quickly the books filled up with examples ranging from cartoons to place  names, museum exhibits, sports writing and more! After cataloguing, we were  asked, why do the myths live on? Lighting Out For the Territory reminds me  of that exercise.  It traces how America and Twain reached the point of the  conception of Huckleberry Finn and asks how we have since lived with or, in  some cases, without its lessons.  What have we saved from Twain and his  ideas, what have we lost of him and why?  Was/is Twain and his work racist?   Good questions, explored in the context of the scholar's personal  adventures.  Our author may not be able to do lunch in Hannibal, MO again  soon, but she's welcome at my house any time.	2000-08-22
US	53041816	R39T50K3BLXSMW	0374525595	469160243	Required Reading: Why Our American Classics Matter Now	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Stay With It and Be Rewarded	I tangled with Required Reading in its opening pages.  I had thought it  was something more like The Lifetime Reading Plan and was dismayed when I  thought I had stepped in some hardcore lit crit theory which can be a  killjoy.  The good news is, that's not what I stepped in.  While Required  Reading is rather like a capstone seminar and requires a college freshman's  acquaintance with literature to really swim far with it, it is as engaging  as it is edifying.  It reminded me why I chose to major in lit back in  school and was never sorry.  To others who belong to that great English  major diaspora, who find themselves lost among the Grisham worshippers, you  can go home again with Delbanco.	2000-08-08
US	53041816	R2ZAQ2N45TO6J8	068482499X	917889657	A Moveable Feast	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	In the pantheon of my all-time favorites	A Moveable Feast is a memoir with all the movement of a fine novel.  A young, struggling writer comes to Paris to live with his wife, baby and cat in a cold water flat.  The uncertainty of his career, the lack of money,  the cold winters should be insurmountable; in fact they are the best times  of his life as Paris responds with affordable good food in corner cafes and  the great company of artists and other writers, notably Gertrude Stein,  Ford Maddox Ford, James Joyce and Ezra Pound. It is a place of becoming.   The bubble darkens with the arrival of F. Scott Fitzgerald whose troubles  transcend eccentricity, suggesting that money and success are not perfect  ends, as Hemingway finds as he inescapably outgrows Paris. I hated to have  this book end; it was like Hemingway was leaning toward me across one of  those cafe tables, telling stories, confiding his heart.  There was never a  dull moment or word.	2000-07-31
US	53041816	R1P5XCTGUPWWD3	082031739X	500895506	The Girl Sleuth	Books	5	26	31	N	Y	Touring The Old Neighborhood	Reading The Girl Sleuth was like getting in a car with a friend at the wheel and going back to the neighborhood where we lived from ages 10 - 12.  Together we uncovered the probable reasons why my mother and the school  librarian disapproved of Nancy Drew and what those series mysteries did for  our self images as women. The overt mainstream racism of the earlier  editions of the series books is shocking; it gives me some comfort to think  that our culture has grown up in the last few decades to understand how  very wrong that thinking was.  This book was completed in 1975 when Mason  was a young post-doc coming off a Nabokov dissertation.  It is relatively  free of scholarspeak, though the feminism and Freudian references are  starkly of their time.  It's not dated, however: Mason writes from the  heart as well as the mind and this slim book is a timeless good ride.	2000-07-25
US	53041816	R2HDBSY3856925	081016065X	781012296	Brazilian Adventure	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	Good Old Fashion Adventure Still Works	This is contemporary American adventure: buy an SUV, watch game shows based on Lord of the Flies, try the risotto recipe Martha Stewart used on her ascent in the Himilayas. Please! Brazilian Adventure is the real thing  for those who don't own their own snowshoes.  Sure, the author and his  companions set off with pith helmets worthy of Ralph Lauren and more  elaborate gear than they'll ever use; true, Fleming is something of a good  old boy circa 1932 Oxford style. Skin to be shed. When reality hits, which  it does early in the adventure and continues to the bedraggled end, he  rises to the occasion. The narrative is suffused with clear-eyed wit,  honesty and optimism. I hope there are other Peter Fleming books out there.	2000-07-06
US	53041816	RPDJP9LYFRC9P	0195105311	338790436	Lighting Out For the Territory: Reflections on Mark Twain and American Culture	Books	5	4	6	N	N	It may be difficult to classify but it's good	I enjoyed this book the way I enjoyed Richard Holmes' Footsteps and Thomas Hoving's King of the Confessors which loosely fit into a genre I call &quot;scholars' adventures.&quot; It serves other more valuable purposes,  though. It is a lucid rereading of Huckleberry Finn that leaves the joy and  surprise of the work intact for the reader.  It addresses the &quot;N&quot;  word problem head-on; I appreciate Fisher Fiskin's unwavering commitment to  her interpretation. It makes sense of Twain's oddysey from the child of  slavery-defending parents to the adult abolitionist. It is a clear-eyed  vision of the troubled history of race relations then and now. As life (and  literature) affirming as FF's voice is, I remain stunned and angered by the  America revealed by the bullwhip episode in contemporary Hannibal.  Her  observation that the controversy surrounding Huckleberry Finn is tied to  how the novel is (not) taught is likewise commentary on our culture. If  everyone	2000-02-18
US	53041816	R3VAFNZ86JL87V	0345348109	227222206	The Killer Angels: The Classic Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	Impressive, memorable	Why did I choose this?  I don't know.  It was a Pulitzer, and those are dependably readable, high quality.  I thought everyone else had read it (wrong).  It was an extraordinary experience, and while the writing at  times could be more obvious than aesthetic, it was highly atmospheric and  immediate.  It contributed greatly to my understanding of the Civil War and  war in general.     I thought the character of Arthur Freemantle had been  invented for ironic relief and was surprised to find that no, the Queen of  England had, in fact, dispatched that emissary to study the tactics of the  Confederate leadership.  I've since shared my interest in visiting the  Gettysburg battle sites with people who have done so and have gotten an  unexpected reaction:  Why would I want to go see flat, empty spaces? Flat,  empty spaces?  The book is about anything but.	1999-09-24
US	53041816	R3FQWEIC54D9HL	0393318419	840533398	Grace Notes: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Extraordinary Performance	This is one of the most honest, well observed, multi-layered fictions I've read in a long time.  It opens up the mind and heart of the creative artist and gets down the details of a woman's life in a sensitive, straightforward  way.  It tightly weaves setting, metaphors, rhythm and action.  Just as the  protagonist's inspiration comes first in rhythms, this books seems to have  been born in the movement of the sea.  The author has an interesting way of  ordering his information:  you learn to trust early into the book that if  something hasn't been explained, the explanation will flow in at a later,  more appropriate moment.	1999-08-24
US	53041816	R2JK3SJGHMG40K	0679736514	616884127	Intruder in the Dust	Books	5	5	5	N	N	More readable than others would have you think	Those who follow the AP Book of Rules for writing (i.e., subject, predicate, no commas, no decora) will have a tough time negotiating Faulkner's peregrinating sentences, but it's worth it.  This book delivers  several experiences at one time:  a look at the Southern social codes, a  textured appraisal of racial relations, an adolescent's step off into adult  life, and an entertaining murder mystery.  The lead characters are nicely  drawn, with surprises; the action and crowd scenes are portrayed in easily  visualized imagery.  For all the Southern writing I've read, this added  more information about the culture and people.  I feel sorry for those who  don't have the patience for Faulkner's style:  a taste for it isn't that  difficult to acquire and it's well worth it.	1999-07-26
US	53041816	ROL34EOCRXVYB	0679770046	790912060	Footsteps: Adventures of a Romantic Biographer	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Adventure Is Key Word	I read this the spring it came out, the spring I learned that once again there would be no summer vacation, no breaking free of the time zone.  As much as a book can stand in for actual experience, this did, and I got a  rollicking review of Romantic figures in the bargain.  Holmes obviously  conducts meticulous research, but he writes it up in a style that has the  sweep of a fine novel. He is a master at marrying study and action.	1999-03-26
US	53041816	R2F22TGV22WSHU	1886913021	977150138	A Book of One's Own: People and Their Diaries	Books	5	23	23	N	N	You will be charmed . . .	I finally got around to reading a yellowed Penquin edition of A Book of One's Own and am pleased to see that Hungry Mind is keeping this alive and available for everyone else who has yet to enjoy it. Essentially, it is a  pageant of diarists and their words, with Mallon standing to the side,  offering an often witty, always insightful commentary.  It is a literate,  sensitive dialogue. As a sometime diarist, I fought for awhile with his  notion that everyone writes with an audience in mind, that our most private  writings are not unselfconscious, that we intend to be found out.  But I  did not go reading this to locate my own opinions.  It is delightful, and  with the bibliography neatly situated in the back, it reads silkily,  without the interruption of footnotes.	1999-02-26
US	53041816	RYHHH582S0GQ3	1573220825	89472327	An Instance of the Fingerpost	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Your Opinion Depends on the Denouement	This is literate genre fiction, not literature.  I was seduced by too many write-ups that suggested it was more.  It is clever, I'll give it that, and the historical detail is strong.  For a book that boasted so much of  incorporating many of the 17th century's thinkers and doers as characters,  I was surprised that Samuel Pepys didn't skulk by.  Ultimately, I have a  philosophical problem with how the plot is resolved, which taints my  feelings for the book.  Someone else may not have the same issues and thus  may appreciate it more.  To reveal more about my problem would be to spoil  it for the next reader, so, like me, the reader has to take the risk to pay  the price and stick it through nearly 700 pages.	1999-02-26
US	53041816	R30E5A41224WP5	0375701966	115989267	The Moviegoer	Books	5	5	7	N	Y	The Big Omission From My College Syllabus	Having finally read The Moviegoer, after years of hearing it referenced with reverence, my question is, how could my college professors leave this off the syllabus of my 20th century lit course?  Of course, that was 25+  years ago, but we were reading Updike, Bellow and Cheever, so why not  Percy, too?  It is an English major's dream, out of a certain time but  still so fresh, it's as if Percy's narrator was the first to sense a  malaise in his life and set off on a search for meaning.  The writing is  plummy, elegaic, yet accessible, so one needn't be an English major to  enjoy it.	1999-02-02
US	53041816	R29T10QK772NGY	0913990701	359140203	Uprisings: The Whole Grain Bakers' Book	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Period Piece That Still Works	Uprisings would have earned 5 stars from me, but I do recommend this with a caveat that not all of the recipes work out all of the time.  Most do, however, and those ingredients that may have seemed exotic back when are  now available in most supermarkets or your local health food emporium. I  continue to bake out of Uprisings, but I also love to read it because it's  a great way to revisit the 1960s and 70s--a &quot;you are there&quot; type  of experience.  It is so very earnest.	1999-01-18
US	53041816	R3TRFI9KA1LLQG	044991254X	186431007	Crash Diet: Stories	Books	4	1	1	N	N	McCorkle always a pleasure	Crash Diet reveals McCorkle's strengths as a writer of the New South, which I first enjoyed several years ago in July 7th and Tending to Virginia.  It's like I was never gone; her comic style intertwines effortlessly with the truly sympathetic in this collection of short fiction.  There are lots of voices here, all of women grappling with changes in their lives that have brought chaos, rather than order.  The pieces were written across a span of years and the author's propensity to drop topical references to our disposable culture can be a little distracting when moving from one story to another, as you inevitably pause to recall just when &quot;Falcon Crest&quot; or &quot;The New Newlyweds Game&quot; was hot. But that's just a little itch, and it doesn't date the material.	1998-08-03
US	53041816	R3H8AQLMEP1J1V	0553099957	291987598	To Say Nothing of the Dog	Books	3	5	10	N	Y	An amusing but messy and treacly little wine	How do I begin?  Yes, this was an amusing diversion.  Yes, the chaos theory theme was cleverly explicated through manic human folly and jumble (rummage) sales filled with useless Victorian bric-a-brac.  But why was the reader always a hundred pages ahead of the scientist/historian characters when it came to figuring out what was going on?  Why did the author feel the need by turns to impersonate P.D. Wodehouse, Agatha Christie, Dororthy Sayers and Jerome K. Jerome and then go on to point out the deed over and over again as if the reader was thick as a brick?  Why does Willis insist on sappy heroines and even sappier romances reminiscent of those Disney used to mount for the adolescent Hayley Mills?  Get an editor!  Get an edge!	1998-03-23
US	53041816	R312LE0N0O0XZ9	014023313X	619669899	The Stone Diaries	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Impressively Crafty	At first I had trouble navigating this book, having just finished Angela's Ashes, a work that leaves you with the author's breath still warm in your ear.  The Stone Diaries by contrast seemed distant, as if I were looking through the wrong end of the binoculars.  My final sense is of an impressive piece of craftmanship, one that experiments with voice and perspective in a big way, which employs symbolism, irony and characterization in workmanlike fashion.  As for that first impression--distance--it plays out the theme of knowing the self and others.  The writer took a lot of risks here and for the most part, they pay off.  It's nice to see risk-taking in an era of what Tom Wolfe once termed &quot;anesthetic&quot; fiction.	1998-02-24
US	53041816	RRWW4ECPHPXTR	0679765557	77357612	First Comes Love	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	There's just something about Winik . . .	I give this book a &quot;10&quot; because it is rendered in beautiful, compelling prose and it took me to places in the human experience I have not gone and never will personally.  I am aware that this memoir has been greeted with cautionary morality and has earned the dubious distinction of a citation in the Flummery Digest on the Internet, but for me, Winik makes sense.  She writes straightforwardly without a lot of analysis, without apology, without self-punishing hindsight.  I learned about Winik from, of all things, an article in the March 1997 issue of Cooking Light. As a follow-up activity to reading the book, I recommend searching the Internet for Winik's account of going on &quot;Oprah&quot; to promote the book.	1997-12-03
US	53041816	RRT4A6Z2HSHEW	0761508589	940252853	If You're Writing, Let's Talk: A Road Map Past Writers' Blocks from Page One to The End	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	For the workshop-deprived, something to fill the void	Somewhere I read that more neophyte writers are writing well these days thanks to the popularization of writers' workshops.  That's more bad news for those of us with inferiority complexes, who want to go somewhere with the scribbling but live wagon trains away from places where workshops flourish.  How in the world can we competitively buff our stuff without a seasoned writer and a dozen deadly honest classmates looking on?  The next best thing is to rely on self-help writers' books, a burgeoning genre of which this compares with some of the better examples like Anne Lamott's &quot;Bird By Bird&quot; and Rita Mae Brown's &quot;Starting From Scratch.&quot;  What I like about &quot;If You're Writing, Let's Talk&quot; is its emphasis on the revision process.  For all its supercool LA chatter, the book offers a good lesson in critical thinking	1997-06-24
