US	53043602	R3KH6J042AQ8DO	0440412897	916656689	The Chocolate Touch	Books	4	88	97	N	N	A funny and charming fantasy.	This book is basically a twist on the story of King Midas and the Golden Touch. In this case, though, it isnÃ*t gold that the main character, John Midas, loves, but chocolate. When John receives a \\"gift\\" of the ability to turn everything he touches to chocolate, it turns out to be more of a curse than a gift. Having his breakfast bacon and eggs turn into chocolate seems wonderful, but when he gets thirsty and canÃ*t get a simple (non-chocolate flavored) drink of water, he begins to understand the need for variety. <br />I donÃ*t know many children who have an overpowering love of gold, but just about every child can identify with a boy whose desire for chocolate knows no bounds, and so this story is just a natural grabber for elementary school-age children.<br />You might expect a book with a message (eat a variety of healthy foods) to be moralistic, even a little dull, but this book is nothing like that. The plot is absorbing, much of it is laugh-out-loud funny, and the characters are all well-drawn and interesting. <br />The Chocolate Touch is a real charmer.	2002-06-06
US	53043602	R1603CEWHCP84H	0064404927	793168621	The Best School Year Ever	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Disappointing sequel	Barbara RobinsonÕs The Best Christmas Pageant Ever is one of my top ten favorite childrenÕs novels of all time. ItÕs one of the funniest and at the same time most moving books ever written. <br />Unfortunately, the magic that was in the first book just doesnÕt carry over to this sequel. The same characters are here. The Herdmans are still the kind of uncivilized kids that make parents and teachers (and even less rowdy kids) squirm. Beth, the narrator, is still the kind of sweet, observant girl who fits in with others but is open enough to find the good in those who donÕt fit in. But it just doesnÕt come together here. The HerdmansÕ antics arenÕt as funny as they were in the first book (a few, in fact, are simply recycled from the first book). And if youÕve read The Best Christmas Pageant Ever, where Beth comes to see the good in the seemingly irredeemable Imogene Herdman, it seems odd that in the new book sheÕs back to viewing Imogene as a monster. What happened to the insight she gained at the end of the last book?<br />The book has a few funny moments. ItÕs not dreadful. But after The Best Christmas Pageant Ever, it is certainly a disappointment.	2002-06-06
US	53043602	R3T98HRHG0AGQE	0465061508	59964273	A Problem from Hell: America and the Age of Genocide	Books	5	11	15	N	N	A disturbing but essential history.	This is a heartbreakingly painful book to read. It took me almost a month to get through it because I simply couldnÕt stand to read more than a small bit at a time. Yes, there are heroes and heroines here -- people who strove again and again to save victims of genocide. But if youÕre anything like me, when you finish \\"A Problem From Hell\\" you will know far more about how monstrously human beings can behave than you want to believe. \\"Evil\\" seems too mild a word to describe it. And you will also see what in some ways is even worse -- the ease with which \\"good\\" people can ignore mass murder.<br />Nevertheless, as difficult as it is to read, this is an important, extremely well-researched, and clearly and concisely-written book, and IÕd recommend it highly (even urgently) to anyone who has an interest in American foreign policy. And even those who think they don't.<br />At the end of World War II, the world swore that \\"never again\\" would we stand by while millions were slaughtered. Samantha Power deals with selected post-war examples of times when the world failed to live up to that promise -- in Cambodia, Iraq, Rwanda and the former Yugoslavia. Unfortunately, it would be easy to add several more to her list. In fact, sheÕs been criticized -- from both the right and left -- for some examples she left out of the analysis. However, I feel strongly that her focus on the four late twentieth century genocides makes this a better book than it otherwise would have been. The limited number of examples allows Power to explore deeply both the differences and the similarities between these genocides.<br />The differences are important because so often that is what both the press and the government focus on. We misinterpreted the genocide in Cambodia because the Khmer Rouge was not murdering members of an ethnic group, but political and class enemies. Saddam Hussein targeted an ethnic group -- the Kurds -- but the Kurds were rebelling against the government at that time, so itwas possible to view the situation as more an overly harsh attempt to put down a rebellion than as a genocide. <br />But, as Power shows, focusing on how each example was different from the Holocaust was less a misunderstanding than it was an excuse for inaction. There are plenty of other excuses. We canÕt be sure if the victimsÕ stories are accurate. We see the victims fight back and think they are just as guilty as the perpetrators. We are worried that acting may create more problems than it solves. But mostly it just comes down to this: most Americans are not very interested in what goes on outside our country and no politician has ever been voted out of office for failing to intervene abroad. Under those circumstances, only the best and the bravest will stand up.<br />And intervention does not necessarily mean military intervention (although that certainly canÕt be ruled out). One of the most interesting conclusions of PowerÕs book is that the world is hampered in responding to signs of genocide because we think that noticing that it is taking place will require us to act militarily. Not wanting to go to war, we pretend that the genocide is not taking place. But, as Power quite convincingly argues, there are many indications that by taking early strong stands against a country murdering its own citizens, we can stop it. When we refuse to even condemn the killing, we only encourage the thugs in power to go farther.<br />This book raises issues that as citizens and moral human beings we all should be grappling with.	2002-05-10
US	53043602	R2GAINX7PJLP2W	0064400026	825132395	Little House on the Prairie (Little House, No 3)	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Laura Ingalls Wilder is an American treasure.	I've recently started reading the Little House books to my seven-year-old daughter and I'm thrilled to discover that I love them just as much now as I did when I was her age. There are a lot of reasons for that. Laura Ingalls Wilder was a wonderful writer. She's simple and always crystal clear, but at the same time, she uses so much detail and has such a great sense of the rhythm of language that her writing is beautifully poetic and always a joy to read aloud. And the characters, of course, are among the most beautifully drawn characters in literature: the feisty Laura who has such a hard time doing what she's supposed to do,  her frustratingly perfect sister Mary, her strict but kind parents. Even the animals in the book come across as interesting characters. No matter how tired I am in the evening, I always look forward to getting out Little House and reading a chapter or two.<br />Those were the things I loved about it as a child, and still love now. But as an adult I've also come to appreciate how quintessentially American this book is. It's the kind of book that makes you think about our heritage, and makes you proud to be American. In these books, Laura and her family keep facing hardships and meeting them head on. When necessary, they pick themselves up and move on to a new place, starting from scratch. They don't expect anything from anybody, and yet they care about their community and their neighbors. You often hear the words \\"pioneer spirit\\" used to describe America's best values, but after you read Little House that's not an empty phrase. You, and the child you read it to, understand it in your heart.	2002-05-03
US	53043602	R11N49SWE8W4GU	0060264306	507661724	Little House in the Big Woods	Books	3	73	93	N	N	Good book - but not as good as the ones that follow.	I'm a huge fan of Laura Ingalls Wilder and fondly remember reading the Little House books when I was a child. I've just started reading the series to my 7-year-old daughter, though, and while she loved Little House on the Prairie, she was far less fond of this one. In fact, although  she's usually a good listener, I found her attention constantly wandering as we read this book.<br /> And in all honesty, I could understand why. Laura Ingalls Wilder is without a doubt one of the best children's writers who ever lived, but I think she had barely begun to show her enormous talent when she wrote this book. Although there are wonderful little snippets of family life, and a few hints of the conflicts between the feisty Laura and her more reserved and perfect sister Mary, the truth is, there isn't much of a plot here. And Mrs. Wilder goes on for page after page describing how bullets were made, or butter churned. There are probably children who find that fascinating, God bless them, but my daughter was just bored by it.<br />I don't think this is a BAD book, but Little House on the Prairie is so much better, so much more interesting that I think if you want to read the series to a young child, that's the place to start, even though this is the first book in the series. This is a book for children who have already fallen in love with Laura and her wonderful family.	2002-04-12
US	53043602	R2JBKTXPARO6NM	0452281091	293422350	Chang and Eng	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Daring topic, fascinating characters, beautifully written	Darin Strauss has written a daring novel, dealing with the lives of the famous &quot;Siamese Twins&quot; who performed in circus shows in the mid-nineteenth century. <br />The very idea of conjoined twins still has the power to make most people uncomfortable. You can't help but picture yourself in their place -- never having any privacy, and surely never having a sense of yourself as a unique individual. The greatest strength of this novel is that Strauss quickly gets the reader past seeing Chang and Eng as oddities and into a view of them as individuals. Eng, the narrator, and more intellectual and emotionally reserved of the two, longs to be separated from his crude, sensual, hard-drinking, and spotlight-loving brother. At times he despises his brother and believes they share nothing but their physical link. He finally realizes however, that he owes all the excitement, and even love, in his life to his more adventurous brother. As much as he wants to be separate, he recognizes that his brother is as much an emotional as a physical part of him.<br />Strauss brings Chang and Eng to life by making the reader realize that their struggle -- the need to be separate and the need to share lives with others -- is nothing more than an extreme manifestation of a dilemma all of us face. We are all both free individuals and members of communities, and there is often a conflict between those two aspects of our lives. The fact that the twins lived in North Carolina at the time of the Civil War adds a further dimension to this idea. Eng identifies very strongly with the Southern cause, the desire to be separate from the union. Clearly it becomes, for him, a metaphor for his own desires. <br />My only quibble with the novel is that at times the metaphor of separation and union gets a little heavy-handed. Eng simply reminds us a few too many times about what the cause of secession means to him, and that draws some attention away from the characters and story. But overall, this is areally fine first novel.	2002-02-21
US	53043602	RYPZ2XB2MU8K9	0195090616	118364838	Islam and the West	Books	4	35	39	N	N	Great study of issues and ideas in the Islamic world	Bernard Lewis's book is alternately fascinating and frustrating. If you come to it expecting either a history of the relationship between the Islamic and Western worlds, or an analysis of their relationship in recent decades, you will be disappointed. The book consists, rather, of essays dealing with various issues in Islamic-Western relations, such as problems in translating Arabic texts into European languages, the idea of country and patriotism in the Islamic world, and disputes between scholars of Middle Eastern studies.<br />Despite the somewhat esoteric topics, however, the book is not just for scholars. Lewis's breadth of knowledge, and a writing style much more interesting than that of most academics, makes this book intriguing reading for almost anyone with an interest in Islam and the Middle East. I picked up many intriguing facts and anecdotes from the book. <br />But it's not perfect. For me, the problem in Bernard Lewis's approach is summed up in one of the book's first essays  -- on Muslims living in non-Muslim countries. Lewis offers a fascinating study of what various Muslim scholars have said over the centuries about the theological implications of Muslims living under the laws of non-Muslims. Then he admits that the average Muslim probably has little or no knowledge of these theological debates and it is uncertain what effect these ideas have on how real people live their lives. He insists, though, that they must have some effect, and in any case, how can we find out any information about religious ideas except by listening to religious scholars? That's pretty much like saying that papal pronouncements are the only knowledge we can have of what Catholics think. Scholarly and theological debates are interesting, but how religious ideas effect people's lives is even more so -- and that area is not only beyond the scope of Lewis's work (which is understandable), but is something that he writes off as irrelevant and unknowable (which is absurd).<br />And for me, this limitation is a problem throughout the book. Lewis is a marvelous and almost always interesting scholar when he is discussing the history of ideas. But he repeatedly jumps to the conclusion that those ideas filter down to ordinary people's lives with little change. It would be far more interesting, and relevant to the general reader, I think, to see how those ideas play out in the real world.	2002-01-31
US	53043602	R1VWLBTX7N0ENB	0679758909	421298531	Covering Islam: How the Media and the Experts Determine How We See the Rest of the World	Books	5	87	100	N	N	Essential reading	This is one of the most intelligent and thought-provoking books I've ever read. The gist of Said's argument is that academic studies of the Muslim world are (like all academic studies) influenced by the culture that produces them. Because the first Westerners to study Islamic culture came from colonial powers, they tended to view things through colonialist, ethnocentric eyes. Although the United States has never had colonial ambitions in the Middle East, we've inherited many of those European attitudes. More importantly, because Middle Eastern studies in American universities lead so many people into careers as government consultants, or oil company employees (and because so much of the funding comes from government and oil companies), those studies usually do not focus on Muslim culture as something of interest and value in and of itself, but are concerned rather with how it relates to American power and business interests. We are not concerned, in other words, with how an institution in an Islamic country effects the local people, but only with whether it makes them more or less pro-American.<br />According to Said, American journalists, who tend not to know the languages, or much about the culture of the places they report from, rely on such slanted academic studies for their understanding of the Islamic world, and allow it to color almost everything they write. As a result, reporting from Islamic countries is not only shallow, but often filled with insults and ethnic slurs that no editor would accept if the reporter were writing about any other group of people.<br />I suppose the best way to judge a book like this is to test its thesis in the real world -- and even before I finished reading the whole thing, I realized how much more aware I was of the underlying bias and ethnocentrism in newspaper and magazine articles about the Middle East. I wasn't searching for that prejudice, but after reading Said, I could not miss the condescension in the articles, and theabsence of positive articles. Most of all, I realized how very little information was actually contained in the articles I read. It's not just that Muslims are being slurred. As citizens, we're being cheated out of information we need to make informed decisions. This book should be required reading for every editor, every foreign correspondent, every commentator on foreign policy, and every American citizen.	2002-01-16
US	53043602	R2H3H0S04RRRR8	0689715404	292610258	The Courage of Sarah Noble	Books	4	51	55	N	N	An excellent introduction to chapter books.	This was one of my favorite books when I was a little girl. It's about an eight year old girl in 1707 who goes into the wilderness with her father to help build a new home for her family. Before she leaves, some children frighten her with stories about Indians who will capture her and eat her or chop off her head. As she travels with her father, Sarah Noble must conquer all her fears. Finally, in her new home, Sarah meets Indian children who frighten her at first, but turn out to be nice kids who become her friends.<br />I bought this book for my 6-year-old daughter recently, fearing it wouldn't hold up after all these decades. After all, I grew up with cowboy movie images of &quot;savage&quot; Indians, and felt Sarah's fear. But my daughter, like most children today, hasn't grown up with that racist garbage. She wouldn't understand why anyone would be afraid of Native Americans. That's a good thing, of course, but I suspected changed attitudes would take away a lot of the book's suspense.<br />But the book holds up better than I expected. My daughter recognized immediately that the children who teased Sarah at the beginning were just being mean and didn't know anything about Indians. That the Indian children turn out to be just like her didn't come as a surprise. But Sarah's journey to a new place, being in the woods with scary animal sounds, all living temporarily in a cave all seemed like real dangers to her. And so, even though some of the &quot;message&quot; of the book has become a little dated, the plot holds up well. My daughter and I both enjoyed the book.	2002-01-05
US	53043602	R38R7TOIE0A56V	0688163254	79645500	A Toad for Tuesday	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Wit and kindness save the day!	This is such a sweet, gentle, loving little book. <br />It's about two brother toads, Morton and Warton, one very stodgy, and the other more of an adventurer. Warton, the braver brother, decides to go out into the snow (toads are supposed to hibernate in winter) to visit his aunt. Almost instantly he is plucked up by an owl who wants to eat him, but decides to save him for a week, to have as a special treat on his birthday. It turns out the owl is lonely and friendless and little by little he is won over by Warton's conversation and small acts of kindness. <br />On television and in movies, and even in many books, children are constantly exposed to the idea that violence is the solution to almost every problem. I love the fact that in this work, intelligence, kindness, and compassion solve Warton's dilemma.<br />If you have a child who is just developing enough of an attention span to sit through a chapter book, it's hard to beat this little gem. It's very short, for one thing -- under seventy pages -- which makes it great for restless five or six year olds. And it has just enough danger in it to have small children on the edge of their seats without being too scary. It's cute and funny, and it's message is a great blessing.<br />It also has lots of sequels, which is a big plus when you're trying to get kids interested in reading more. Unfortunately most of the other Warton and Morton books are out of print, but any reasonable library should have them.	2002-01-05
US	53043602	R4V0JE6IJH9ZY	038070918X	786106077	Beezus and Ramona	Books	5	37	37	N	N	Funny and wise.	I read my daughter Beverly Cleary's Ramona the Pest last year, when she was in kindergarten (because in that book Ramona is also a kindergartner) and she instantly pronounced it her favorite chapter book of all time. <br />We've since been reading all the Ramona books, but we skipped this one for awhile. It's the first in the series, and takes place when Ramona is four years old.  I knew from reviews that if focused more on Ramona's older, more serious sister, Beezus, and wasn't a &quot;real&quot; Ramona Quimby book. I somehow thought it would not be as funny as the others.<br />I was wrong. Ramona is even more exuberant in this book than in any of the others we've read, and her antics are hilarious. Seeing everything through the eyes of her serious sister does not make it one bit less funny.<br />But this is not just a funny book. It deals gently and honestly with the difficulty Beezus has in loving her sometimes exasperating little sister. Beezus and Ramona is more than forty years old, but I donÕt think anyone has ever come close to Beverly Cleary's ability to capture and sympathize with children's feelings. Cleary brings everything around to a happy, but entirely believable ending in this warm, wise book.<br />My daughter says this is her second favorite Ramona book (after Ramona the Pest), but so far it's my very favorite.	2001-12-27
US	53043602	R2P6J9GP41IDT2	0152438173	535780557	The Legend of Old Befana	Books	5	108	112	N	N	A story of Christmas generosity.	My husband is Italian, so Befana (who brings gifts to Italian children on Epiphany) is as much a part of our Christmas traditions as Santa Claus. To be honest, I prefer the story of Befana and find it a lot closer to the spirit of Christmas. <br />Befana is a somewhat grumpy and fussy old woman. One day Three Kings show up at her door, following a star, and looking for a miraculous baby. They urge Befana to come with them, but Befana is so busy with her household tasks she thinks she doesn't have time. <br />Little by little though, the idea of a baby who &quot;comes for the poor&quot; (like her) and yet attracts kings as well begins to move her and she decides to follow. She gathers up some goodies she has just baked and a few toys to bring as gifts for the new baby. But she has waited too long, and although she keeps following the star, she never finds the infant. <br />The lovely aspect of this story is that she begins leaving her gifts for other children, because she recognizes in them the spirit of that miraculous child that the Three Kings sought. I love the idea that children receive presents at Christmas because Jesus' spirit is in them.<br />This is an essential book for Italian-American families. I think it would also be a good book for teachers or parents of somewhat older children (past Santa Claus believing age) who are interested in Christmas traditions of different cultures. In Russia, the story of Babushka is very similar to the story of Befana (and there are several good picture books about her). And in Mexico, the Three Kings themselves bring presents (and Tomie dePaola has done a wonderful book about the story of the Three Kings that makes a perfect companion to this one). <br />Overall, a terrific Christmas book.	2001-12-21
US	53043602	R1BNQPZS2X3M3H	0142300047	690549321	Morris' Disappearing Bag	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Christmas story we read all year!	I have a big box of children's Christmas books that I keep in the garage most of the year, and bring out in late November, but even though this book tells a Christmas story, it has never gone in the Christmas box. My kids wouldn't give it up. It continues to be read all year. I'm not sure exactly what it is about this book. It's kind of a silly little story about a little bunny, the youngest in his family, the one who is overlooked, who discovers an unnoticed present under the Christmas tree -- a bag that can make anyone who crawls into it disappear. But there's just something delightful and fun about it. We especially like the fact that only what's completely in the bag disappears, and Morris doesn't ever quite manage to get his whole body in the bag, so in each picture a little piece of him (tips of ears, or cottony tail) are sticking out. It's fun to find Morris in each picture. In fact, overall, this is probably the most fun Christmas book I've ever seen.	2001-12-21
US	53043602	R3L18XZIUGT9M3	0803702892	419750100	Max's Christmas (Max and Ruby)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	I love Max!	Rosemary Wells' Max and Ruby books are the best books for small children of all time, and Max's Christmas is the best of the best. The focus of the book is Max asking his older sister Ruby a thousand questions about Santa Claus that she can not answer (until, an exasperated Ruby finally screams BECAUSE! and refuses to answer any more questions). If you've dealt with any 2 to 4 year old at Christmas time, this will seem so real you won't be able to keep a straight face. It's just a pure delight.<br />The illustrations are more detailed, and the colors more interesting than in the Max board books. It's done in a way that the pictures all look bathed in candlelight, which creates a perfect atmosphere for the book. That's one of the things that makes this book even better than the other books in the series.<br />The recommendations for this book say it is for toddlers to pre-school children, but my kids continued to love it and want to hear it every year until they were about eight. My son loved it so much that I have him on tape reciting it by heart at age three. <br />If you have little ones to read to at Christmas, this is a must-have!	2001-12-21
US	53043602	RFAQONWR6JFD	0805053921	927895382	A Certain Small Shepherd (Owlet Book)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	A gentle Christmas story.	This is such a gentle, old-fashioned little book that it is a small miracle it's still around. It's about Jamie, a mute boy who lives with his sisters and widowed father in the hollows of Appalachia. The boy feels like he can't do anything and isn't special in any way, until Christmastime, when a teacher offers him a chance to be a shepherd in the school Christmas pageant. This is the most exciting thing that has ever happened to him. But then the pageant is cancelled because of a blizzard, destroying his dream.<br />In the end, a poor, traveling couple appear. The woman is about to have a baby, and they are looking for any place, even a barn, to spend the night, but so far no one has had any room for them (Sound familiar?) Jamie's family gives them shelter, the woman has her baby, and finally Jamie gets his chance to be a shepherd -- he shows up in costume to bring the new baby a gift, and to speak his very first words. A Christmas miracle!<br />One of the things I love most about this book is the fact that Jamie is far from a perfect little boy, but the author obviously loves him and makes us love him and recognize that his anger and tantrums come from frustration over his handicap. No one yells at Jamie and tells him to behave. They find ways to help him behave. There is a Christian spirit of love and generosity coursing through Rebecca Caudill's portrait of this child.<br />An earlier reviewer was offended by how &quot;unrealistic&quot; the ending seemed. I don't think that's really true. Early in the book, Jamie's father talks to a doctor, who tells him that Jamie is physically capable of speaking, but he needs help learning to do so, help the family can not afford. Jamie's inability to speak seems to be more a matter of trauma (his mother died giving birth to him) than anything physical, and so it does not seem remotely unrealistic for him to be healed when something in his life gives him a sense of importance. He simply has to speak to this miraculous child!<br />But more than that, this is a Christmas story. And if we can't make room in a Christmas story for miracles, when can we?	2001-12-21
US	53043602	RI20NMNNPQTJA	0152001174	470111652	The Nativity	Books	5	16	17	N	N	One of the best Christmas books around.	For some odd reason, children's books based on the Bible often bring out the worst in illustrators. I've seen more bad drawing, syrupy expressions and cloying colors in illustrated Bible stories than in any other kind of children's book. That's why this book is literally a God send. The lovely King James text might normally be a little over the heads of the 4 to 8 year olds this book is aimed at, but Julie Vivas' illustrations bring it to life and make it something any child will want to hear again and again and again. I've read it for years to both of my children, as well as in classrooms, and it is always a huge hit. From angels with rainbow colored wings and army boots (a few of them riding the shepherds' sheep) to the crowds in Bethlehem literally dripping from the trees, this book is a delight. It's hilarious, but also very moving. One of my favorite pictures in the book is of the enormously pregnant Mary gazing at her belly in delight. And my six-year-old daughter adores the wide-eyed baby Jesus. If you only buy one Christmas picture book, this is the one to get.	2001-12-17
US	53043602	RKEASMJP5IY2Z	0310222168	25301982	Mary's First Christmas	Books	5	43	43	N	N	An unusual but moving way to tell the Christmas story.	I've been collecting children's Christmas books for years, but this is one of the most beautiful and original ones I have ever seen. Religious Christmas books don't have a lot of variety in the story, of course. They tell about the birth of Jesus and no matter how beautiful the story is, everyone tells it pretty much the same way. The only thing that usually distinguishes one nativity book from another is the quality of the illustrations.<br />The illustrations in this book are nice, although nothing spectacular. But Walter Wangerin has found a unique way of telling the story. He has Mary tell the child Jesus (he looks about six or seven) about how he was born. It's a wonderful approach because every child loves to hear about the day he or she was born, and this gives them a strong identification with Jesus, and creates a touching sense of the warm relationship between Mary and her son that is usually missing from nativity stories. Her emphasis in telling the story is on all the love he was given at birth Ñ from God, from Mary and Joseph, from the angels, and from shepherds and kings.<br />The other unique quality of this book is that throughout the story, in subtle ways (but directly enough so that my six-year-old was aware of it) the author reminds you that Jesus will die. Mary tells the birth story to Jesus to comfort him when he is treated cruelly by other children (and she seems well aware that this will not be the last time he is treated horribly), and in the final illustration, Joseph is teaching Jesus some carpentry skills and we see Jesus joining two pieces of wood together in the shape of a cross. It is a sad undertone, one you don't usually find in Christmas books (and one many parents may prefer to avoid at Christmas time). But the context is this: at his birth, God and the world gave Jesus love, and through his death he returned that love. At Christmas, we usually focus on the joy not the sorrow, but I found this book very moving, and so did my daughter. We have dozens of Christmas books in the house, but over the past few weeks she's been asking for this one almost every day.	2001-12-17
US	53043602	R1BVPQHIGWEA0T	0064402754	697512973	The Best Christmas Pageant Ever	Books	5	22	23	N	N	The Best Christmas Book Ever.	I've been collecting children's Christmas books for seventeen years, since my oldest child was a baby, adding a few more to the collection each year, but without a doubt this is the best one I have. I first read it when my oldest was six and I've re-read it every Christmas since, and not only have I never gotten tired of it, but I can't imagine Christmas without it.<br />The story is about a church Christmas pageant in which the Herdmans, the wildest, toughest kids in town, move in and take over the main parts. Mary smokes cigars. The Wise Men steal. And the Angel of the Lord is more likely to smack the shepherds in the teeth than bring good news. Everyone in the church is scandalized, of course, but trying to fit the totally unsuitable Herdmans into their Biblical roles makes for one hilarious story after another. When you can get an adult and a six year old laughing out lout at the same things, you know you've got a special children's book.<br />If all this book had was its humor, it would be a treat, but it is a lot more than that. Under all the great jokes is another more moving story. The Herdman kids are hearing the story of Jesus' birth for the first time, and their reactions Ñ shock that anyone would put a baby in a feeding trough, fury at Herod's attempt to kill the baby, amazement at the angel's miraculous appearance to the shepherds Ñ renew the meaning of the story for those of us who have heard it hundreds of times. Little by little they become more and more effected by the story and it changes them. <br />In the end, this is not just a funny book, but a powerful story of redemption. Through most of the book, I can't stop laughing, but by the end I am always reading through tears, even after having read it eleven times.	2001-12-16
US	53043602	R1WEQG9B3GINVZ	0375724834	352044771	Motherless Brooklyn	Books	2	9	10	N	N	Interesting language, but the novel doesn't add up to much.	There is no doubt in my mind that Jonathan Lethem is a gifted writer. His prose is crisp, a little crazy, and often a lot of fun to read. I was intrigued by his idea of a detective with Tourette's syndrom, which makes him compulsive (actually, a fairly useful trait for a detective) and also given to quirky flights of language. The reviews of the book led me to expect something with the page-turning qualities of a good murder mystery combined with an unusual, and more poetic, use of language than you generally find in genre fiction.<br />The book seemed to live up to that description for the first fifty pages or so, but I seriously question whether many reviewers read the entire novel, because by the middle the plot bogs down, it becomes clear that the characters are never going to develop into anything more complicated than you'd find in a B movie, and the language, at first intriguing, becomes just plain eccentric.<br />Lethem has talent, but he wasted it on this novel.	2001-11-08
US	53043602	R354NFZMLGFWZS	0375724834	352044771	Motherless Brooklyn	Books	2	3	9	N	N	Interesting language, but the novel doesn't add up to much.	There is no doubt in my mind that Jonathan Lethem is a gifted writer. His prose is crisp, a little crazy, and often a lot of fun to read. I was intrigued by his idea of a detective with Tourette's syndrom, which makes him compulsive (actually, a fairly useful trait for a detective) and also given to quirky flights of language. The reviews of the book led me to expect something with the page-turning qualities of a good murder mystery combined with an unusual, and more poetic, use of language than you generally find in genre fiction.<br />The book seemed to live up to that description for the first fifty pages or so, but I seriously question whether many reviewers read the entire novel, because by the middle the plot bogs down, it becomes clear that the characters are never going to develop into anything more complicated than you'd find in a B movie, and the language, at first intriguing, becomes just plain eccentric.<br />Lethem has talent, but he wasted it on this novel.	2001-11-08
US	53043602	R1NYSQH90W17YJ	0395841739	685014027	Orphan Trains: The Story of Charles Loring Brace and the Children He Saved and Failed	Books	4	29	33	N	N	An interesting and important book.	Some people say you can judge a society by how it treats its weakest members, and if that is true the United States has repeatedly failed the test. When it comes to dealing with the most vulnerable people among us Ñ children whose families can not or will not take care of them Ñ over and over we turn our backs on horrible examples of abuse and neglect.<br />After reading Orphan Trains, which deals with the origins of the foster care system in the mid-nineteenth century, the first attempts to deal with the problems of children without families, rather than dealing with the problems (primarily crime) that such children created for society, IÕm struck by the fact that this failure is far from a new thing.<br />Charles Loring Brace, the founder of the ChildrenÕs Aid Society, which found homes for orphans, runaways, and children who had essentially been abandoned by their families, was both an intelligent and a well-intentioned man. Fighting the prejudice of his time, he argued that homeless children were not criminals and threats to society, but potentially upstanding citizens. All they needed was the love and attention of a family. A noble sentiment, but unfortunately Brace mixed it with another noble, but tragically wrong, sentiment. He believed that all middle class families, especially farm families, were good. So he put New York children on trains headed west to be taken in by just about any family that would have them. Many children were adopted by wonderful, caring families, but others ended up as virtual slave labor. Girls were often subject to sexual abuse.<br />In hindsight, it is easy for us to see the flaws in BraceÕs thinking. But in a fascinating final chapter, Stephen OÕConnor points out that we are making many of the same mistakes today because, like Brace, we donÕt see children who need families as unique individuals. We argue abstractly about whether it is better for a child to stay in a flawed family or be removed to a foster family, when the truth is that there are thousands of factors to take into consideration in each case (of course taking those factors into consideration would require well-trained social workers with small caseloads Ñ which we are unwilling to pay for). We argue about whether a child ought to be placed in a family of his race or ethnic group, or whether any good family is better than none, when the truth is that it depends on the child. Some children feel out of place if they are not in families that look like them; for other children race or ethnicity makes little difference. But to get children to the right place, we need to invest time, and time is expensive.<br />Whether in the nineteenth century or the twenty-first, good intentions and theories about what is best for children donÕt take the place of seeing children as individuals. As a society, we need to decide if we care enough about children to pay for the time and attention they need. <br />Orphan Trains has a complex and fascinating story to tell and makes a great contribution to an important national issue.	2001-10-28
US	53043602	R3CPZXR8XFN64W	157954603X	223568033	From the Ashes: A Spiritual Response to the Attack on America	Books	5	16	16	N	N	There is so much wisdom here.	I stumbled across beliefnet.com a few days after September 11 and found it to be full of much of the best and most insightful writing to be found anywhere. This book, which compiles many of the articles Beliefnet has published on the tragedy, demonstrates that the spiritual issues raised in the articles Ñ justice, evil, retaliation, even the very existence of God Ñ are not just timely. They are issues we are going to have to deal with over and over again. And this book is loaded with wisdom for anyone who is attempting to deal honestly with those issues.<br />The authors range from traditionalist Christians to Bishop John Shelby Spong, who argues that after September 11, we have to picture God in a different way than we ever have before. The ideas range from strong supporters of military response to the Dalai Lama and Bishop Tutu who counsel forgiveness. One of the most interesting pieces, for me, was Karen Armstrong's essay on Islam, comparing its attitude toward violence to that of Judaism and Christianity. There has been so much nonsense published on that subject over the past month. It was wonderful to read the insights of someone who understands and respects all three faiths.<br />The best thing about this book is that despite the range of opinions (which guarantees that every reader is going to find many ideas they disagree with), I did not find a single essay to be without merit. Even the ones I disagreed with all said things I felt I had to think about. There is no political or spiritual posturing here, but, in every case, an open and honest discussion of issues.<br />This is a beautifully written and important book for anyone who cares  about spiritual issues.	2001-10-27
US	53043602	RP8JK4REPQG9I	0345391691	920269539	The Battle for God	Books	5	113	119	N	N	&quot;We can not be religious in the same way as our ancestors.&quot;	IÕve always been interested in comparative religion, but in the aftermath of September 11, it has felt urgent to understand what brings people to beliefs that are so obviously grotesque distortions of any religious tradition. I picked up Karen ArmstrongÕs book because after reading several articles about Islamic fundamentalism, it seemed to me she was the only writer I encountered who had a clue what she was talking about. While others spouted platitudes and engaged in useless debates about whether Islam was a religion of peace or war (virtually all religions are a mixture of the two), Armstrong offered clear and fascinating analyses of how Islamic fundamentalism developed and what its relationship was to the politics of the Middle East.<br />The book, a comparison of Christian, Jewish, and Islamic fundamentalism, has more than lived up to my high expectations. The world isnÕt less dangerous after reading it, but it makes a little more sense, and I feel better equipped to cut through the platitudes and nonsense.<br />Armstrong argues that in the modern world &quot;we can not be religious in the same way as our ancestors,&quot; and yet without any religion at all, life feels as if it has no meaning. And so all of us, whether devout, agnostic, or atheist, search for meaning, for &quot;new ways to be religious.&quot; Fundamentalism represents one of those searches, but it is a way that grows out of fear.<br />One of the things I found most interesting about this book is that Armstrong emphasizes that this &quot;fear&quot; isnÕt simply some bizarre paranoia. ItÕs often quite legitimate. American Protestant fundamentalism grew up among poor, rural, badly educated people who felt that powerful and sophisticated people were laughing at them and their beliefs. And, to be fair, they were right. And so, in a virtual parody of the people who were looking down on them, they began to argue that their beliefs were &quot;modern&quot; Ñ the Bible was historically and scientifically verifiable. Jewish fundamentalism developed in the aftermath of the Holocaust, which left many Jews with valid reasons to fear annihilation and hope that a picayune observance of &quot;GodÕs law&quot; would save them. Islamic fundamentalism developed in societies asked to modernize too quickly and in ways that had horrendous social consequences. Many Islamic fundamentalist movements, ironically, began as positive attempts to provide social services like health care and education that governments were not providing, but political repression radicalized them and made them more aggressive.<br />All three fundamentalist religions, Armstrong says, have positive aspects. TheyÕve helped people operate in a confusing modern world without losing their sense of the meaning of life. But all three have also shown a dangerous tendency to lose the compassion that is at the core of any authentic religion, and to degenerate into &quot;a theology of rage and hatred.&quot;<br />Armstrong concludes that fundamentalists need to become not less religious, but more so Ñ more faithful to the compassion that is the heart and soul of religious faith. But at the same time, secularists and people with more liberal notions of faith need to recognize the real fears that fundamentalists face, and deal with the problems that spawn those fears. Fundamentalists are not going away. We need to understand them.	2001-10-22
US	53043602	R1MH0O53DRAOG	067989098X	859608774	Martin's Mice	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Another gentle farm animal story from the author of Babe.	Dick King Smith, the author of MartinÕs Mice, is best known for Babe the Gallant Pig, which of course was turned into a movie that is a lot better known than any of his books. The movie is one of the best childrenÕs films ever, and the book is even better. But it does have one disadvantage. The British dialect in Babe, while charming, is so thick it is difficult for many American parents and teachers to read aloud, and for American children to follow. DonÕt get me wrong. I love Babe and have read it aloud several times. But it is not easy.<br />What I like about MartinÕs Mice is that it has many of the same qualities that made Babe such a joy, including the gentleness, the emphasis on kindness, and the quirky, understated humor, but without the heavy dialect. There are Britishisms sprinkled throughout the book, but they are manageable with an American tongue.<br />In terms of plot and character, MartinÕs Mice is not quite up to the standards of Babe. But then how many books are? Like Babe, Martin is a farm animal who marches to a different drummer. HeÕs a cat who loves mice. But he loves them as pets, not as meals. The novel focuses on how he learns to love them more as friends and equals than as pets. Martin is a sweet, gentle character, but there is no denying he does not have the charm of Babe. And the novelÕs plot seems a little disjointed. The ending felt like it sprang on us out of nowhere.<br />Still, my six-year-old daughter and I both enjoyed the book. If you are looking for a childrenÕs book full of nice, gentle humor and kind characters, this is a good choice.	2001-10-10
US	53043602	R3702UW1DT6KIG	0140503935	733561265	Thy Friend, Obadiah (Picture Puffins)	Books	5	39	39	N	N	A perfect picture book about friendship.	Thy Friend Obadiah is a simple but beautiful story about a six-year-old Quaker boy on Nantucket Island who is followed around by a seagull. At first the bird annoys him, especially when his brothers and sisters tease him about his &quot;friend.&quot; But when the bird disappears for a time, Obadiah begins to realize how much he misses its company, and when it returns, injured, he takes car of it, and appreciates the friendship it has given him.<br />IÕve always thought of this as a deeply religious book, although looking it over now I realize there is only one religious reference in the whole book Ñ when ObadiahÕs mother tells him, &quot;I think it is very nice that one of GodÕs creatures favors thee.&quot; But the tone of the book is deeply spiritual. It is about love, friendship, and respect for creation. I especially like the fact that ObadiahÕs parents both seem wise, patient and kind. Old-fashioned, maybe, but itÕs a nice contrast to a lot of more current childrenÕs books IÕve looked at.<br />Although this is the most popular of the series, there are three more books about Obadiah: The Adventures of Obadiah, Rachel and Obadiah, and Obadiah the Bold. All of them are excellent.	2001-10-05
US	53043602	RL5JT7IC7EKEL	0670050180	230016913	Obadiah the Bold: 2	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A little boy learns the real meaning of the word &quot;brave.&quot;	This was the first in a series of books about Obadiah Starbuck, a charming little six-year-old Quaker boy in colonial-era Nantucket. In this story, Obadiah dreams of being a &quot;fearless&quot; pirate who has exciting adventures on the high seas. His dream ends when his older siblings play such a rough and frightening game of pirate with him that he realizes he is not as fearless as he would like to be. His father saves the day by telling him about his grandfather, the captain of a sailing ship, who was braver than any pirate, because he sailed the seas and had adventures without ever hurting anyone, the way pirates do. And so Obadiah begins to refashion his old dream in a more positive, peaceful direction.<br />This is a wonderful book about what it really means to be a brave man. What I especially like about it is the character of ObadiahÕs father. When Obadiah first announces that he wants to be a pirate, his father, a gentle Quaker man who surely must have been shocked, says only that he hopes Obadiah will be a good one. Later, when he speaks of ObadiahÕs grandfather, you hear in his voice both family pride and love for his son. I think this is the best portrait of a patient and caring father IÕve seen in childrenÕs literature. The book doesnÕt just lecture about what it means to be a good man, the father embodies it. That alone makes this book priceless.<br />If youÕre as charmed by Obadiah as I am, there are three more books about him Ñ Thy Friend Obadiah, Rachel and Obadiah, and The Adventures of Obadiah. All of them are superb.	2001-10-05
US	53043602	RV8Z1YD86S0CF	0670050911	396815157	The Adventures of Obadiah: 2	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The funniest of the Obadiah Starbuck books.	Brinton TurkleÕs Obadiah Starbuck books (including Obadiah the Bold, Rachel and Obadiah, and Thy Friend Obadiah) all deal with a little Quaker boy in colonial-era Nantucket. The others are all more serious in tone. This one is just a funny little charmer. <br />Like the boy who cried wolf, Obadiah canÕt stop himself from spinning elaborate and absurd tales of his adventures, until no one in town believes a word he says. Lectures and punishment do nothing to quell his imagination. Then one day his family goes to a fair and he has a real adventure that makes his invented ones pale by comparison. But of course no one believes him. Unlike the story of the boy who cried wolf, however, which usually ends with the boy being eaten by a wolf, in punishment, I suppose, for his lies (IÕve never liked that story), in this version, Obadiah is eventually able to prove that what he said was true, and he goes home a hero. <br />This isnÕt my favorite Obadiah book. If youÕve never read any of them, start with Thy Friend Obadiah, which is a pure masterpiece. But after that, by all means check this one out. ThereÕs nothing deep about it, but itÕs a lot of fun to read, and Obadiah Starbuck is, as always, one of the most charming little boys in childrenÕs literature.	2001-10-05
US	53043602	R37OMI1HTYOJF9	0525380205	335941376	Rachel and Obadiah	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A determined little girl wins the race.	Rachel and Obadiah is one of the best of Brinton TurkleÕs Obadiah Starbuck stories (the others in the series are Thy Friend Obadiah, The Adventures of Obadiah and Obadiah the Bold), all of which deal with a little Quaker boy in colonial-era Nantucket. The plot of Rachel and Obadiah is basically a variation on the story of the tortoise and the hare. Little Rachel canÕt run as fast as her big brother Obadiah, so when they race to see who will get to bring to town the news of a ship returning to the harbor, her chances of winning do not look good. But Obadiah gets distracted by some blackberry bushes (and the belief that he is so fast that he can always catch up later) and so, by sheer determination, by never giving up for a second, Rachel wins. <br />I have a six-year-old daughter who has an older brother, so you probably wonÕt be surprised to learn that she thinks this is the very best of the Obadiah books.<br />Besides being a wonderful story, the book also has superb illustrations. The clothing, the clapboard houses with their widowsÕ walks, the windmills, and the old sailing ships coming into port are all great introductory history lessons for young children. But even better is the variety and expressiveness of all the charactersÕ faces. The joy and expectation on the faces of the crowd waiting for the ship to come in. The pride on RachelÕs tiny face when she wins the race. Especially good is the final picture of Obadiah slumping home while Rachel looks at him with a mixture of new-found pride in herself and compassion for her brother. Brinton Turkle is a master at capturing the complexity of human emotions, and this book is one of the best examples of his work.	2001-10-05
US	53043602	R12RQRPZ681LHT	0690040318	17808591	Weekly Reader books presents My friend the monster	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A beautifully written book about overcoming prejudice.	From the title, you might not expect this to be one of the best chapter books ever written for young children, but it is. My oldest child is 17 and my youngest 6, so I have been reading aloud for many, many years, and this is one of my all time favorites. In simple, but beautifully poetic language, Clyde Robert Bulla tells a story of an &quot;ordinary&quot; prince, a disappointment to his cruel and snobbish family, who runs away and meets a &quot;monster&quot; who lives with his people in underground caves. Although the humans and the monsters fear and hate each other, the boys become friends, slowly learning to trust and even protect one another. It is a wonderful story, both exciting and psychologically rich, and it deals with overcoming prejudice in a way that makes sense even to children as young as five or six. But it's so good, so beautifully written, that I'd recommend it for children as old as nine or ten.  Unfortunately, as I write this, the book is currently out of print, but any decent library ought to have it. And I hope the publishers come to their senses soon and make it widely available again. This is a book every child should get the opportunity to hear.	2001-10-04
US	53043602	R3PMGEFMKWIOMJ	0689503946	908986008	One Day in Paradise	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A child's-eye view of a loving God.	Bible stories must be the hardest stories of all to illustrate. There are so many dreadful ones Ã` either too cute or much too bloody and war-like to be appropriate for small children. It's sad how many publishers seem to believe that parents will accept any cheap and ugly illustrations just because it is the Bible. Personally, I think the fact that you are illustrating the Bible gives you an even greater responsibility to offer children something beautiful, something they can truly and deeply love.<br />I truly and deeply love this book. In just a few sentences, Helme Heine tells the Biblical story of Creation. But it is the illustrations that make it a treasure. His watercolors are gentle, peaceful images of jungles and plains, icebergs and waterfalls, and all the creatures of the earth. But best of all is his portrait of God as a creator with a Santa Claus-like beard, a gentle, intelligent face and mud all over his jacket from all his hard work. He's an artist, a sculptor, a gardener, a scientist, a tinkerer, and a thinker. My favorite picture in the book is of God gazing lovingly out his window at Adam and Eve (who look like they are four or five years old) as they play a game of chase. It is such a wonderful image of God I can't imagine any child not loving the image they find in this book.<br />This is one of the very best Bible stories for children I have ever seen.	2001-09-27
US	53043602	R2UDODREGRI49O	0140502343	662099832	The Story of Ferdinand (Picture Puffins)	Books	5	338	347	N	N	Blessed are the peacemakers.	This book is more than sixty years old. I remember hearing it as a small child in the early sixties, and even then it sounded strangely old-fashioned to me, as if it came from some sweet, gentle world that had not existed for a long time. But as a child I passionately loved that world, and this book that evoked its gentleness, and years later, when I found out I was pregnant, the first thing I bought for my son was not a blanket or a crib or a stuffed animal, but a copy of Ferdinand. It was the thing I loved most from my own childhood. Seventeen years later, I still think my priorities were right. And that seventeen year old has a six year old sister, so the book is still in use.<br />Ferdinand has been around so long, I assume everybody knows the story, but in case you don't, here goes: Ferdinand is a gentle little bull in Spain. The other little bulls love to fight and dream of being chosen for the bullfights in Madrid. But by mistake, Ferdinand is sent to fight. The only problem is, he will not fight.. They lead him into the bullring, but he just sits there, smelling the flowers in the women's hair, and in the end there is nothing the matadors can do but take him home.<br />I suppose people have been reading this book to children for more than sixty years in part because of its pacifist message. In essence, Ferdinand is the one who would not come when they gave a war. But for me that is just a small part of its appeal. Robert Lawson's absolutely perfect illustrations show a world that is often mean and ugly (the stupid expressions on the faces of the men who come to choose the bulls are classics), or else petty and foolish (check out the fussy clothes and snooty expressions of the matadors), but Ferdinand, always true to himself, is oblivious to this world, and just goes on living his own life in his own way. In the end that quality is a force that nothing can alter.<br />Reading Ferdinand always leaves me believing that goodness is a powerful, unshakeable force.That is a message I find very comforting lately.	2001-09-26
US	53043602	R3LYMSRFZDKU9G	0688162800	73097514	Molly's Pilgrim (Customized Book Bundles)	Books	5	25	26	N	N	The spirit of Thanksgiving is always with us.	The only negative thing I can think of to say about this book is that when I read it aloud, I have a very hard time not crying. It is a short and simple story (longer than a picture book, but an adult can read it aloud in one sitting, and most second or third graders could read it to themselves), but one of the most moving children's books I know of. <br />Molly is a turn of the century Jewish immigrant girl from Russia. She lives in a small town, where no one understands her, and other children make fun of her clothes, and accent and her ignorance of  American customs. In November, her classmates are appalled that she  has never heard of Thanksgiving. But as we get to know Molly better, we, and eventually her classmates, realize that this child, who left her country and moved to America so that she and her family could practice their religion without fear is no different from the first pilgrims. <br />By the time they reach second or third grade, most children have heard the story of the first Thanksgiving many, many times. This is a wonderful way to renew the meaning of the story for them, by reminding them that people are still coming to American for the same reasons they came hundreds of years ago.	2001-09-21
US	53043602	R3BQ8AQDHPW7Z6	0688162800	73097514	Molly's Pilgrim (Customized Book Bundles)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The spirit of Thanksgiving is always with us.	The only negative thing I can think of to say about this book is that when I read it aloud, I have a very hard time not crying. It is a short and simple story (longer than a picture book, but an adult can read it aloud in one sitting, and most second or third graders could read it to themselves), but one of the most moving children's books I know of. <br />Molly is a turn of the century Jewish immigrant girl from Russia. She lives in a small town, where no one understands her, and other children make fun of her clothes, and accent and her ignorance of  American customs. In November, her classmates are appalled that she  has never heard of Thanksgiving. But as we get to know Molly better, we, and eventually her classmates, realize that this child, who left her country and moved to America so that she and her family could practice their religion without fear is no different from the first pilgrims. <br />By the time they reach second or third grade, most children have heard the story of the first Thanksgiving many, many times. This is a wonderful way to renew the meaning of the story for them, by reminding them that people are still coming to American for the same reasons they came hundreds of years ago.	2001-09-21
US	53043602	R2JYWFHOMO97KO	0141002077	232409532	Cherry	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A more than worthwhile sequel to a brilliant book.	The Liars Club is second only to AngelaÕs Ashes as my favorite memoir of all time, but I hesitated reading this sequel because sequels so rarely live up to the original. I had just finished reading Frank McCourtÕs lackluster sequel to AngelaÕs Ashes about the time I first saw this book in the bookstores, and I was not in the mood to be disappointed again.<br />Fortunately, this time I wasnÕt. Cherry is not quite as good as The Liars Club ( not many books are), but it is still a very good book and well worth reading. The writing style that was the heart and soul of The Liars Club, KarrÕs unique mixture of lyricism and Texas grit, is still here, and still a pleasure to read. She makes you laugh and breaks your heart.<br />And there are a number of other things that make this book special. In The Liars Club, Karr left me in awe of the strangeness of her family and childhood. In contrast, I think anyone who was a teenager in the seventies, especially women, will find a great deal to identify with in this book. Karr does a wonderful job of capturing a decade when the world went out of control in many ways, but adults were still trying to keep teenagers locked in the 1950s. Karr seems to think that mixture of insane freedom and mind-numbing repression was unique to east Texas, but I went to high school at the same time Mary Karr did, in southern California, and it was pretty much the same. <br />The other thing that Mary Karr writes well about in this book is the sexuality of teenage girls. Teenage boys have been well covered, but this is the first book IÕve read that seems to get girlsÕ initial interest in sex right. Again and again you see the teenaged Mary reaching out, not really for sex, and not for love and commitment (the clich about what girls want), but more for a kind of romance and communion. It rings very true. The writing here is as honest and insightful as anything youÕll ever read.<br />I agree with a lot of critics that this is a less hopeful book than The Liars Club. As a child, Mary had so much grit, you knew she would come out on top of her circumstances. The teenaged Mary seems lost in them. ItÕs honest, but it wears you down sometimes. I wish she had continued the book a little farther into her life, to some point when she rediscovered some of toughness she had as a child (she must have found it, or she could never have written these two wise and honest books). It would have made for a less gloomy ending. But I look forward to the next book.<br />All in all, IÕd say if you have not read The Liars Club, you should definitely read that first. Not only is it a better book, a brilliant book, but this book will make a lot more sense if youÕve read the earlier one. But if youÕve already read and enjoyed The Liars Club, donÕt hesitate to read this one. ItÕs a worthy sequel.	2001-09-10
US	53043602	R1HLA04E643JP9	0312278306	446187663	Half a Heart	Books	3	6	6	N	N	A disappointing book from a good writer.	This novel disappointed me deeply because it started out so good, with so much potential. A white woman gives birth to the child of a black man in 1960s Mississippi. She leaves the child to be raised by the father, but eighteen years later, still haunted by the daughter she lost, she goes looking for her. That premise has potential for melodrama, of course, but also for an interesting exploration of what it means to be a mother, as well as some complicated racial issues.<br />For the first hundred pages, I thought this novel would probe those issues in a sensitive and intelligent way. The two main characters Ð Miriam, the mother who left her daughter behind, and Ronnee, her bi-racial child Ð start out as intriguing characters. The pain of Miriam, who has a good life, but canÕt appreciate it because of the hole left by her absent child, is palpable. And Ronnee is a beautifully written character. We learn early on that she agrees to meet with her mother mainly because sheÕs hoping for some money to finance her way to college. And yet she doesnÕt come across as a greedy villain, but rather as an intelligent, ambitious and complex young woman.<br />But once Rosellen Brown goes into flashback to tell the story of MiriamÕs affair with RonneeÕs father, the novel goes astray. The biggest problem is that the author doesnÕt seem to know what to make of MiriamÕs lover, Eljay. She begins with a promising portrait of a charming and intelligent man, somewhat edgy and resentful because of all he has had to suffer to get where he is. But then, out of nowhere, he gets involved with a group of black separatists who seem to take over his personality. Suddenly heÕs a different, incomprehensible, man. Because we never get inside EljayÕs head, but only see him from MiriamÕs point of view, the change in him seems weird. I have the feeling Rosellen Brown was merely trying to make the point that black racism can be just as bad as white racism, but her political point gets in theway of the story. It would have been a lot more interesting to see what Afrocentrism meant to a man like Eljay. Dismissing his point of view seems like a betrayal of a potentially fascinating character.<br />And the novel goes downhill from there, with one clich after another. Almost all the characters, black and white, are bigots, and the bigotry is so blatant and obvious, so crude, that it makes the novel seem anachronistic. God knows racism has not disappeared, but the author seems unaware that it usually takes subtler forms than it did in 1960. <br />Rosellen Brown is obviously a talented writer, and this novel had a lot of potential, but unfortunately the promise remained unfulfilled.	2001-09-06
US	53043602	R1TCO4CEI20HR3	156663346X	224926112	Bad News: Where the Press Goes Wrong in the Making of the President	Books	2	1	5	N	N	Important topic; shallow coverage.	IÕm a bit of a political junky, but an unusual one in that I get almost all my news from print. Before I was old enough to vote I realized that television news didnÕt have much to tell me, and I stopped watching. Except for election results, and an occasional breaking story, I havenÕt watched television news since Nixon was president. Still, I realize that itÕs where most Americans get their news, and so IÕm curious about how it covers candidates and how (or if) it shapes opinions. ThatÕs why I picked up this book Ð a survey of how the media (especially television) have covered presidential elections since 1968.<br />I was very disappointed. I rarely pay attention to t.v. coverage, but even I knew almost everything in here. Robert Shogan has been covering presidential elections since 1948. I expected some professional insight, a few peeks behind the scenes, at least some thought-provoking opinions. Forget it. This is a bland recitation of everything you already know --  the press doesnÕt understand much about the making of a president, the press is more interested in the horse race than the issues, charismatic candidates do better than substantive ones on t.v., politicians avoid talking about issues and the press lets them get away with it. Is there anyone with even a mild interest in politics who doesnÕt know this already?<br />The lack of insight is especially frustrating in ShoganÕs coverage of the 2000 election, which the media tripped all over itself trying to cover. Surely all the mistakes the media made in reporting on the election and its aftermath offers plenty of material for analyzing exactly how the media messes up when it tries to cover elections. But no. Shogan tells us the press adored McCain Ð which was pretty obvious Ð but doesnÕt offer an opinion about why. McCain was an underdog, but the press isnÕt always kind to underdogs Ð they certainly werenÕt kind to Bradley, Buchanan, or Nader. Shogan argues that the press went a lot easieron Bush than Gore, even though the majority of reporters probably voted Democratic. But once again, he offers no explanation of this paradox.<br />I think this book deals with an important topic. It just doesnÕt cover it very well. Shogan accuses the press of dealing superficially with presidential elections. But in the end I think this book is guilty of the same superficiality.	2001-09-03
US	53043602	R31GUA2N9N2UP4	0803706197	891230619	The Talking Eggs	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Beautifully written, beautifully illustrated.	This is a charming little folktale about two sisters Ð one mean and greedy, the other generous and kind Ð and their encounter with a strange, magical old woman. In the end, the good sister is rewarded and the bad one punished. A nice story with a good message.<br />But this isnÕt just a nice book, it is an extraordinary one. One thing that makes it special is the way the author uses language. Robert San Souci draws on an African American storytelling tradition and a southern rural dialect that just makes the language sing! The book is full of wonderful, poetic lines and great rhythmic language. ItÕs a joy to read aloud. The words feel good in your mouth. And any parent or teacher who reads aloud a lot knows what a rare quality that is. Even when IÕm tired, I feel like I canÕt read this book badly. The words just flow.<br />And the illustrations are gorgeous. Jerry Pinkney is one of the best illustrators around and this is one of my favorites of all his work. The composition, the subtle colors, the intricate detail Ð you rarely come across art this fine in childrenÕs books.<br />I bought this book for my daughter a couple of years ago, and weÕre still reading it over and over again. ItÕs so good, I hope in a generation sheÕll still be reading it to my grandchildren.	2001-09-02
US	53043602	R258I8U92M60	0140562885	812812215	Sam and the Tigers: A Retelling of 'Little Black Sambo' (Picture Puffins)	Books	5	14	20	N	N	A great story made even better.	When I was a little girl, in the sixties, I loved the story of Little Black Sambo, but thirty years later, when my son came across my copy in a box of old books, and asked me to read it to him, I found that it was a lot less charming than I thought it was. Sambo was a great, resourceful little boy and the story was terrific, but as an adult I couldnÕt overlook the obvious condescension that the British author had toward her Indian characters. I hid the book away, but reluctantly, because it really was a good story with a great central character.<br />A few years later, I was thrilled to find this book. Julius Lester has kept everything that I loved about the original and made it even better. The story, about a clever little boy who outwits some tigers who want to eat him, is pretty much the same as Helen BannermanÕs version. Lester has simply transported it from India to a fantastic, fairy tale America, where animals and people live and work together. But what is special here is the way Lester tells the story. His style is funny one minute and breathtakingly beautiful the next. The writing is so fine and musical, itÕs a pleasure to read aloud.<br />And the pictures are brilliant. Jerry Pinkney is one of the best childrenÕs book illustrators around, and this is the best thing IÕve ever seen by him. It has all the lovely qualities IÕve come to expect to find in PinkneyÕs art work Ð great composition, tasteful use of color (which makes the brighter colors of SamÕs clothes practically glow on the page), and exquisite detail. But this book has magic touches that go way beyond that. Every time I look at this book, I discover new details Ð the faces in the tree bark and foliage, the little bonnets and jackets on the insects, the facial expressions of tiny, hidden animals recoiling in fear of the tigers Ð that add to the magic world of this book.<br />My thanks to Julius Lester and Jerry Pinkney for making it possible for me to read this great story to my children again.	2001-09-02
US	53043602	R2S4GM84E9D8BN	0140505393	70994473	Miss Rumphius	Books	5	163	169	N	N	A book that will stay in your heart forever.	This is one of those rare picture books that is so beautiful and so wise that you ought to read it even if you donÕt have children. But if you have a child to share it with, do so immediately, and consider yourself privileged.<br />In this book, you watch a little girl named Alice grow into an old, old woman, a retired librarian, named Miss Rumphius. Her life is filled with exciting adventures, but as she grows older, none of it feels like enough to her. She keeps recalling some advice her grandfather gave her when she was a child. He told her that in order to live a good life, she had to &quot;do something to make the world more beautiful.&quot; But even as an old woman, she canÕt figure out what to do. Finally, realizing the joy sheÕs always gotten from flowers, especially lupines, she decides to share that joy with others by scattering lupine seeds everywhere she goes. She completely transforms the rocky landscape around her home. In the end, she tells her story to her young niece, who wonders how SHE will make the world more beautiful. And so the cycle continues.<br />My daughter, who is six, has talked about this book several times, and told me she hasnÕt yet figured out how she is going to make the world more beautiful. But the fact that she is thinking about it at such a young age makes me proud, and very happy to have found this lovely book to share with her.	2001-09-02
US	53043602	R3JJUWCJZNZ66U	0803702507	615974167	Flossie and the Fox	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Meet the smartest and bravest little girl in children's lit.	Flossie Finley, the smart and feisty heroine of this book is one of my favorite characters in all of childrenÕs literature. The story is an African American variation on Little Red Riding Hood, but Flossie is no wide-eyed innocent who has to be saved in the end by the big, brave woodcutter. She can save herself, thank you very much. The way she tricks the fox who wants to devour her basket of eggs is delightful. Every little girl (and probably every boy as well) ought to be introduced to this brave and resourceful child.<br />And Flossie is not the only great thing about this book. Patricia McKissack based it on a story her grandfather told her and she tried to reproduce the way he told it, in &quot;the rich and colorful dialect of the rural south.&quot; The language is lovely, musical and poetic Ð a joy to read aloud. And the illustrations are equally gorgeous. The pictures of sun-dappled wood remind me of Impressionist paintings.<br />Great story, great writing, great pictures, great character Ð this is one of the best childrenÕs books IÕve ever read.	2001-09-02
US	53043602	R1DNDGWYI8FGY5	0698114434	314439538	Mirette on the High Wire	Books	5	11	11	N	N	An inspiring story of determination and compassion.	As the mother of a 6-year-old girl, I*m always on the lookout for picture books with strong, intelligent and interesting female characters. This is one of the best. Mirette wants to learn to walk a tightrope. She falls over and over again, but never gives up trying, and finally becomes an expert. She is a great model of determination for young girls. But she*s more than that. The story is also about a once great tightrope walker, the man who first inspired Mirette, who has developed a fear of the wire. Mirette uses her own developing talent to help her teacher overcome his fear. The final illustration of the two of them reaching out to each other across the wire brings tears to my eyes every time. Mirette*s determination, ambition, and compassion are inspiring. My daughter and I both adore this book.	2001-09-02
US	53043602	R2B0VHFLLPJH0J	0374522863	834385672	Games for Learning: Ten Minutes a Day to Help Your Child Do Well in School―From Kindergarten to Third Grade	Books	5	78	78	N	N	Best book of its kind.	The parenting section of my local bookstore contains several shelves of workbooks designed for parents who want to help their kids with schoolwork. The books are nothing more than page after depressing page of the same dull exercises most kids get plenty of already in school. I assume they must be selling well, or the store would not order so many of them. But looking at those workbooks makes me want to cry. I think it is wonderful that parents want to help their children do well in school, but the parents who buy those books are getting cheated (and so are their children). The last thing kids who are struggling need is more worksheets. And they are even less useful for kids who are ahead of the curriculum and need more challenges.<br />The games in this book provide an antidote to the worksheet pushers. I am a huge fan of Peggy Kaye's books (She has three more in this series: Games for Reading, Games for Writing, and Games for Math, and all of them are excellent). Whether you are trying to find a way to help a child who is behind in a certain subject or skill, or looking for challenges for a kid who is ahead, this book has some fun ways to help. The best thing is that she has several games for every skill, because she recognizes that children like different things and learn in different ways. So if a game for a skill you are working on falls flat with your child, there are plenty more to try. A few of the games require a little investment of your time, like making playing cards or game boards, but a lot you can do without any advance preparation, and several are so no-fuss they are perfect for car trips, or time spent in a waiting room.<br />This is a first rate book, the best of its kind by far.	2001-09-01
US	53043602	R2M7URJZAIS1JF	0374524270	351224799	Games for Writing: Playful Ways to Help Your Child Learn to Write	Books	5	105	105	N	N	The best book for helping your children learn to write.	I am both a writer and a former English teacher (besides being the mother of two), so I may be prejudiced, but I think writing is the most important thing children learn in elementary school. Once they get to high school, in most subjects it will not make any difference how much they know if they can not get clear thoughts down on paper. If you have a child struggling with writing, this is a very useful book. Some school districts get so obsessed with mechanics (spelling, punctuation, etc.) that the kids rarely practice doing any real writing. Others are more creative, but never seem to get around to things like spelling, punctuation and handwriting. In contrast, the approach Peggy Kaye uses is perfectly balanced. She is full of ideas for encouraging creativity, but also full of painless, even fun ways to practice spelling and penmanship. Both of my kids have loved games from this book, and ASKED to play them. They have no idea how much they are learning, they just enjoy the games. I have looked at a lot of books like this, and I have not seen any that are nearly as good.	2001-09-01
US	53043602	R3Q47AMUEUZYI8	0385475721	850910906	The Blind Assassin	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Another fascinating novel from Margaret Atwood	The Blind Assassin gives you everything you expect from a good Margaret Atwood novel Ð a plot more intricate and absorbing than the best murder mysteries, intelligent and intriguing characters, profound psychological insights, sharp writing, a wicked, hypocrisy-busting sense of humor, and thought-provoking ideas. IÕve read every one of her novels and never been disappointed. She has consistently been the most entertaining of literary writers. <br />Before I read the book, I glanced at the reviews and was disappointed by their vagueness. Some people loved it, some people hated it (a writer as intelligent and original as Margaret Atwood invites extreme reactions), but nobody explained very clearly, I thought, what the novel was about. Now that IÕve read it, I understand the vagueness, and sympathize with the reviewers. ItÕs impossible to explain much of anything about The Blind AssassinÕs plot without ruining it for another reader. The novel revolves around a woman in her eighties, Iris Chase-Griffen, whose sister, Laura, famous as the author of a science fiction novel with a cult-like following, died more than fifty years ago, possibly a suicide. A few years after LauraÕs death, IrisÕs husband also dies, also a possible suicide. And thirty years later, IrisÕs only daughter dies in an accident involving drugs and alcohol. We learn all this within the first twenty pages of the novel, and spend the next five hundred pages trying to figure out the relationships between these people and events. To give you even one more hint about the plot would wreck the suspense. As in AtwoodÕs previous novel, Alias Grace, the more you learn, the farther from the truth you seem to get. The suspense holds you right to the last page. <br />The best thing about The Blind Assassin is the main character (and narrator for most of the book). Iris Chase-Griffen is one of AtwoodÕs most interesting characters to date. She has a cranky, curmudgeonly streak that allows Atwood to give freerein to her biting wit (while reading the book, I kept driving my family crazy repeating deliciously mordant Atwoodisms Ð they were so good, so funny, I couldnÕt keep them to myself). But as the novel progresses, you discover a pain under the wit that makes her a more complex and interesting character than you first gave her credit for. By mid-novel, itÕs no longer just the suspenseful plot that keeps you turning pages, but also a fascination with Iris. <br />As much as I enjoyed The Blind Assassin, I donÕt think itÕs AtwoodÕs best. I prefer both The HandmaidÕs Tale and Alias Grace Ð and if you have never read a book by Margaret Atwood before, IÕd suggest reading one of those before you read this one. In the Blind Assassin, Atwood uses a trick of speaking of characters only as &quot;he&quot; and &quot;she,&quot; without naming them, so that you canÕt tell until the very end who the characters are. In the end, her reason for doing that makes sense, but it still seemed a little bit of a cheat. Also, she has bits of Laura ChaseÕs science fiction novel scattered throughout the book. To some extent, it reflects and comments on the lives of the people in AtwoodÕs novel. At least I think that was AtwoodÕs intention. I donÕt think she completely pulls it off, and that disappointed me a little, because I think exploring the connection between authorsÕ lives and the fiction they create would have been fascinating. Including more of the science fiction novel would have made The Blind Assassin even better than it is. <br />But those are quibbles. This may not be Margaret AtwoodÕs best, but thatÕs an awfully high standard to hold anyone to. It would be most writersÕ masterpiece. You really donÕt want to miss this book.	2001-08-27
US	53043602	R1PA8WNO4AMPQO	0425162443	139645956	The Rapture of Canaan	Books	2	14	19	N	N	A shallow and unconvincing novel.	This is one of the most shallow and unconvincing books I*ve ever read. It focuses on an extremely conservative religious cult which emphasizes medieval punishments for every small &quot;sin.&quot; That could have been interesting. Barbara Kingsolver dealt with the psychological and political effects of such narrow and mean-spirited religious ideas in The Poisonwood Bible and produced a fascinating and challenging novel. But in The Rapture of Canaan, Sheri Reynolds never probes below the surface. She just piles up bizarre details about the cult, trying to show us that it*s bad to envision God as nothing more than a mean old man who punishes people. Well, okay. I agree. But more and more details about how really, really bad this view of religion is doesn*t make for compelling reading. And because Reynolds offers no insight into what draws people to this kind of religion, the characters who are caught up in this church come across as either idiots or sheep. Reynolds had one potentially interesting character Ð the grandmother of the narrator, who is married to the church*s cold and angry patriarch, and yet has some doubts about the religion. The only thing that kept me reading to the end was the hope that at some point Reynolds would develop this character and offer some insight into the contradiction, and that I might understand a little more about what holds people in a church that seems to offer them so little. It never happened. This book was simply a waste of my time.	2001-08-26
US	53043602	RDK0XXSE8NM90	1585670499	52093416	The Corruption of American Politics: What Went Wrong and Why	Books	4	10	11	N	N	I wish this book wasn't still so relevant.	Elizabeth Drew wrote this book about campaign finance reform in 1999, but unfortunately its still relevant. For years, Drew has been one of the most level headed and non-partisan political writers around. Theres not a bit of &quot;spin&quot; in her work. So when someone as calm and reasonable as this writer says that the politicians we have to day are less intelligent, less thoughtful and less ethical than the politicians of a generation ago, I take her very seriously. We all love to complain about politicians, but Drew obviously has a lot of respect for government and the people who once served in it. She doesnt engage in idle rhetoric. Drew argues that we have lousy people representing us because the need to constantly raise money has driven out of politics all but a handful of the best people, leaving us nothing but the dregs. Both houses of Congress are now stuffed with men (and a handful of women) who know more about money grubbing than they do about history, economics or public policy. And money influences not only the quality of the legislators, but the kind of issues that come before congress. Like John McCain, she insists that we cant use government to help solve any of our problems until we get control of the power money has over politicians. Right now &quot;our&quot; government simply doesnt belong to us. I wish there were more solutions offered here. Drew ends by reminding the reader of the importance of voting and writing to representatives. That doesnt seem to me nearly strong enough. There must be more we can do. But as a chronicle of the influence of money in contemporary politics, this book cant be beat.	2001-08-25
US	53043602	R1L81BUF93OE6M	0195071336	871319291	Jazz Anecdotes	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Entertaining -- and a good intro to jazz.	I bought this book for my son, whos a musician, but I heard him laughing so much as he was reading it that I asked to borrow it. Even if youre not a musician, or even very knowledgeable about jazz, this is a really entertaining book. Almost every chapter has at least a couple of laugh-out-loud lines. It also gives you a good feel for what the lives of jazz musicians were like  the camaraderie and competition, the inventiveness, the struggles over money, the often terrible working (and especially recording) conditions. There are also poignantly funny stories about problems with drugs and alcohol, and even about the racial prejudice that musicians had to put up with. My favorite story in the book was about Bessie Smith storming out to confront a group of Klansmen gathering outside the tent where she was working. Peppering them with curses, she ordered them to &quot;pick up them sheets and run.&quot; They did. Great woman. There are lots of great women (and men  mostly men) in this book. I thoroughly enjoyed getting to know a little bit about them.	2001-08-25
US	53043602	R3O7RO6627E9EE	0762406771	301445139	Strange Fruit: Billie Holiday, Cafe Society, And An Early Cry For Civil Rights	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A powerful book about a powerful song.	It may seem odd to devote an entire book to a single song, but if ever a song demanded such an exploration, its Billie Holidays recording of Strange Fruit. Almost everyone thinks its brilliant, yet few people listen to it often. Holiday makes this depiction of a lynching so real that the song is physically painful to listen to. To this day, its rarely played on jazz-formatted radio stations. Its too disturbing. Ive always wondered how Billie Holiday managed to get it recorded in 1939. Did radio stations play it? And where did she sing it? I simply could not imagine Lady Day, with a gardenia in her hair, singing such a horrifying song to people in a nightclub while they sipped martinis. And if she did, how did her audience react? The fascinating thing about this book is that it not only answered my questions, it also raised many issues I hadnt thought about. David Margolick has collected comments and anecdotes about Strange Fruit and Holidays performance from a wide variety of sources  musicians who worked with her, people who saw her perform the song at different time in her life, and contemporary singers who have recorded the song or performed it. What they say raises a lot of interesting questions about the relationship between art and politics, as well as the relationship between an artist and her art. The most fascinating  and shocking  thing to me was the number of people who worked with Billie Holiday who insist that her performance was a fluke, that she did not understand what she was singing. She was an uneducated, not terribly intelligent woman, her &quot;friends&quot; say, and didnt even know the meaning of the songs words. To anyone who has ever heard the song, that suggestion seems insane. The words are powerful, but it is what Billie Holiday does with them that makes this the most disturbing recording ever made. It is clearly a song with a deep, personal meaning for her. In the end, after reading the book, and hearing about how she performed the song throughout her life (sometimes sharing it with an audience she thought would be sympathetic, but just as often using it as a slap in the face to an audience she felt did not respect her), you cant help but see that what makes Holidays recording so personal, so deep, is that for her it wasnt only a song about lynching, it was a protest against all kinds of racism, including the racism of dismissing a brilliant artist as one more empty-headed &quot;girl singer.&quot; Margolick makes a strong case that it was the first cry of the civil rights movement that began more than a decade later.	2001-08-24
US	53043602	R3DXNBYVEW2Y8X	034544177X	983384697	All Souls: A Family Story from Southie (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Not as entertaining as Angela's Ashes -- but more important.	I bought this book on a whim, hoping for something similar to AngelaÕs Ashes. What I got was, in many ways, even better. To be honest, All Souls is not nearly as entertaining as AngelaÕs Ashes. While the book has more than its share of both tragedy and humor, Michael Patrick McDonald lacks Frank McCourtÕs genius for making you laugh and cry at the same time. But in the end, McDonaldÕs inability to turn poverty into entertainment is this bookÕs strongest virtue. AngelaÕs Ashes is a great story told by a great storyteller. All Souls is both a great story and an important, thought-provoking book.<br />The books are similar in that both are about poor Irish families, but All Souls deals with Irish-American poverty in Boston in the sixties and seventies, when its author was a child. McDonald paints a moving (and sometimes humorous) portrait of people living with all the consequences of poverty that afflict so many urban minority communities Ð poor schools, crime, lousy police protection, lack of government services, welfare dependency, drugs and alcohol, etc. But McDonaldÕs family and neighbors also suffer from another, self-inflicted wound Ð that terrible Irish ability to laugh off or deny the tragedies that are right in front of their eyes. These are people who watch their children drop out of school, fall into crime and drugs, and, all too often, die, and yet continue to buy stolen designer clothes so they can dress up and convince themselves they are not poor, and insist that they live in &quot;the best place in the world.&quot; <br />It is only as a adult, after working with activists in neighboring black and Hispanic communities, that McDonald begins to realize that his white neighborhood is just as afflicted with the consequences of poverty as the minority neighborhoods that surround it. His family faced most of the same problems that African-American families in nearby Roxbury faced, but in Roxbury people dealt with those problems more honestly and moreeffectively. McDonald, raised on SouthieÕs infamous racism, realizes that he has a lot to learn from people he was taught to look down upon.<br />I love this book for many reasons. One is that it explodes the myth of the Irish as the successful, happy-go-lucky, and perfectly assimilated ethnic group, whose example is often used to put down other ethnic groups. (If the Irish made it, why canÕt you?) Several Southie residents have written reviews here testifying to the honesty and accuracy of McDonaldÕs portrait of BostonÕs lower class Irish-Americans. IÕm a decade older than McDonald and spent much of my childhood in an Irish immigrant community in New York, not Boston, but I was amazed by how much I could identify with in this book. Because of our age difference, I was never exposed to the drugs and crime that McDonald was, thank God, but that Irish need to put on a show and pretend that poverty doesnÕt exist (or laugh it off) was so familiar to me that at times it hurt to read this book. Our &quot;gift&quot; for finding the humor in tragedy, which so charms outsiders (witness the phenomenal success of McCourtÕs book Ð most of his readers were not Irish), can be a curse to us Ð permitting us to endure what ought to be fought, and masking an inner anger that shows up in disproportionately high rates of alcoholism and domestic violence. McDonald deserves high praise for being brave enough to draw attention to this.<br />Another myth that McDonald explodes is the idea that there are no class differences in the United States. WeÕll reluctantly acknowledge a racial divide, but not a class divide. But the truth is, while the lower class is disproportionately black, it is predominantly white. And framing our problems in racial terms separates us where we should be united. The racism of poor whites Ð which McDonald devotes a lot of time to in this book Ð hurts not only blacks, but also whites, because it keeps them from realizing that they arenÕt alone, that they have a lot in common with other poor people. That McDonald was able to see his familyÕs poverty clearly after working with poor African-Americans gives me hope. When I was in college, I began to figure out, from conversations with a number of African-American women, that poverty was more a curse than a shame. I will always be grateful to them for that insight. I was happy to see McDonald shared my experience. I wish it was an experience more people had.<br />I like memoirs and read quite a few of them, but most memoirs give you, at best, a small insight into another personÕs life, a chance to walk around in someone elseÕs shoes. ThatÕs a valuable experience, but I think this book goes beyond that. McDonald has dealt openly and honestly with issues of class and race ( he is up front even about his own familyÕs racism Ð which takes guts to write about). These are issues we are always trying to sweep under the rug in America. I wish this book would get a wide, wide audience and open up a long-needed discussion.	2001-08-21
US	53043602	R3FROG09ONMOQL	0380709244	845799617	The Mouse and the Motorcycle	Books	5	19	23	N	N	Great lessons -- and it's funny too!	Both of my children adored this book and Im kind of fond of it myself. Its just a cute little story about a friendship between a mouse who lives in an old, run-down hotel and a boy who stays at the hotel over a long weekend. The mouse learns to ride the boys toy motorcycle, which thrills them both (and also thrilled my kids), but gets the mouse into a number of scrapes, including losing the motorcycle. Eventually the mouse learns to be more responsible and to care more about others, and earns back his precious motorcycle. I like the books message  that the more responsible you are, the more privileges you get. Thats something Im always trying to teach my kids, and I appreciate the help this book offers in getting the message across. But even more, I love Beverly Clearys light touch, her sense of humor, and her obvious respect for children. She teaches important lessons in a nice way. Its no surprise that she one of most childrens favorite writers.	2001-08-15
US	53043602	R1H80FP1KJS347	0440415209	450152133	The Good Little Girl	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The perfect book for good little girls and their parents.	My six-year-old daughter fell madly in love with this book the first time she heard it, so much so that she wanted me to read it to her several times a day. At first I was a lot less enchanted with it than she was. ItÕs about a nice little girl who gets tired of being pushed around and lets the monster inside her come out. Literally. The monster is a green creature with bulging red eyes and black fingernails. The pictures of her are truly ugly. The monster gets more and more demanding and out of control until finally the nice little girl canÕt take it any more and comes back out. ItÕs got a good ending, but for me the monster-girl was a little disturbing. I guess I just usually  like gentler childrenÕs books.<br />But the more IÕve read this book (and IÕve read it a LOT!), the more IÕve realized how psychologically  acute it is. My daughter is a lot like the &quot;good little girl&quot; Ð most of the time sheÕs neat and polite, and tries very hard to please adults. Those are wonderful qualities, but they can get in our way, too. Less polite kids shove you aside. Adults may overlook your needs because youÕre not loud or insistent enough. Life can be tough for &quot;good&quot; girls. The need to learn to be assertive without letting &quot;the monster&quot; get out of control. And I think the reason my daughter loves this book is that itÕs helping her to do that. In the end, when the good little girl comes back, sheÕs not a pushover anymore. SheÕs still nice, but she tells her parents very clearly and firmly what she wants.<br />IÕm still not wild about the illustrations in this book (although I must admit theyÕre growing on me), but I now think that for a nice, quiet little girl, this is a perfect book.	2001-08-15
US	53043602	R2DXPNVPVGBW9Q	0517571269	846147347	How Pizza Came to Queens	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A very special little book.	A lot of qualities have to come together to make a childrenÕs picture book special. &quot;How Pizza Came To Queens&quot; has all of them.<br />The story is wonderful. It takes place at some unidentified time in the past (probably late 40s or early 50s), when an elderly Italian relative, Mrs. Pellegrino, pays a visit to Queens and is disappointed to discover thereÕs no pizza there Ð but she doesnÕt speak English well enough to explain what pizza is. The children she visits want to make her happy, so they do everything they can to find out what pizza is so they can get one for Mrs. Pellegrino. They finally find the answer in the library (using a dictionary and then a cookbook), and buy all the ingredients, thinking all the while that a PIE made with TOMATOES sounds disgusting. To say the least, they get a pleasant surprise.<br />ItÕs a funny and charming story, but itÕs a lot more than that, too. I think itÕs very important for children to learn to appreciate other cultures, and a book showing that their favorite food has not been in this country forever, but came over with immigrants, is a great way to help them see foreign cultures and people in a positive way. The children in the story are also great role models. The find Mrs. Pellegrino odd (her difficulty with English even makes her seem a little mean at first), but they are able to put aside  their feelings and try to help her feel at home. And theyÕre rewarded for their kindness with their first taste of pizza Ð now thereÕs a reward most kids can appreciate.<br />A charming story and humane values make this book a gem. But the pictures make it even better. TheyÕre not conventionally pretty, but Dayal Kaur Khalso has a unique style based on vivid, sometimes startling colors that are eye-catching and quite beautiful.<br />Everything about &quot;How Pizza Came To Queens&quot; is delightful. I enjoy reading it and looking at the art work as much as my daughter does.	2001-08-15
US	53043602	R1SHRYBQB5AFFT	0679751319	190478568	Dead Man Walking: The Eyewitness Account Of The Death Penalty That Sparked a National Debate	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Sister Helen Prejean is an inspiration!	Certain books stay with you forever. You just get them out of your head or shake off their influence. For me, this is one of those books.<br />IÕve always had mixed feelings about capital punishment. I suspect most Americans do Ð thatÕs why polls on the subject have swung back and forth so wildly over the past thirty-odd years. Sister Helen PrejeanÕs arguments against the death penalty are interesting, and often persuasive, but I canÕt say they settle the issue once and for all for me.<br />But really, her argument against the death penalty is not what makes this book unforgettable. It is the example of Sister Helen herself that stays with me. She has taken to heart JesusÕ admonition to love everyone, and has done so in the most extreme manner possible Ð by offering love to brutal murderers, monsters, the people who least &quot;deserve&quot; that love. She does so in the belief that God has endowed every human being with a soul, and it is her job as a Christian to find and nurture that soul, even if it has shriveled to something as small and hard as a dry seed. She doesnÕt reveal great miracles of redemption, but she finds the humanity in people who have never shown much sign of it. I find that extremely inspiring.<br />Even more moving than Sister HelenÕs work with condemned men is her attempt to reach out to the families of the people these men murdered. It took her several years to do so, not because she did not care about them, but because she cared so much, and was afraid she might say something that would increase their pain, or that her mere existence, as someone who worked with the murderers of their loved ones, would remind them of things better forgotten. But eventually she did reach out, showing enormous moral courage, I think, in opening herself up to receive the victims inevitable anger. Getting to know these people over the years, she realized that many victims held on to their anger, while others somehow let it go. She also realized that therevenge of watching their loved onesÕ murderers finally be executed did very little to help them heal. People healed by forgiving.<br />I think many readers approach this as a political book, looking for arguments against capital punishment. But it is more of a spiritual book, challenging readers to take the Christian messages of love and forgiveness as seriously as Sister Helen does. I canÕt imagine how anyone could read this book and not admire Helen Prejean, and want to be more like her. SheÕs an inspiration, a living saint.	2001-08-14
US	53043602	R13G013WBAJ6HW	0156007088	512469691	Walking with the Wind: A Memoir of the Movement	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A life-altering book.	John Lewis is one of my few living heroes, and I have a great urge to press this book into the hands of anyone who needs someone to look up to. I read it more than a year ago, and I havenÃ*t shaken off its influence yet. I doubt I ever will.<br />Basically,  LewisÃ*s autobiography tells the story of a manÃ*s struggle to live his life being true to the tenets of his faith. For him, the core message of Christianity is that we canÃ*t fight evil with evil, but can only overcome it with the power of love. Expressed in words, that may sound simplistic, even sappy. But once John Lewis shows you that philosophy in action, youÃ*ll never be able to think of Christian pacifists as starry-eyed or weak again. Lewis shows readers young civil rights volunteers being kicked, beaten, spit upon and cursed, and forcing themselves not to get angry, forcing themselves to see their oppressors as decent, if misguided, human beings, until, miraculously, some of them began to see themselves in the same way, and to behave like decent human beings. Reading this part of the book, I kept thinking that Lewis has written the greatest, most inspiring war story ever told. The courage of these young people, going into battle with no weapons but faith and love, surpasses that of any soldier who ever lived.<br />The book falters a little at the end, I think. The battles Lewis fights today as a Congressman may be just as important as those he fought in the sixties, but they lack the inherent drama of the early civil rights movement. Nevertheless, itÃ*s inspiring to realize there is at least one man in Congress today with undeniable courage and moral authority. If only there were more like him.	2001-08-11
US	53043602	R2JR83OP0Y6VJ9	0316832642	194575478	Down and Dirty : The Plot to Steal the Presidency	Books	5	10	14	N	N	Don't vote again until you've read this book.	I voted for Al Gore in the last election, but after reading this book, IÕd like to withdraw my vote. I suspect most Republican readers will want to take theirs back too. Jake TapperÕs rock solid investigative reporting leads you to an uncomfortable but undeniable conclusion: whether you voted Democratic or Republican, you supported the wrong guy. Both parties behaved shamefully. Neither deserved our votes.<br />Basically, the Republicans won because they were meaner and more willing to play dirty than the Democrats were. It also helped that they completely control the political machine in Florida Ð even the local Democrats were afraid of getting on the wrong side of the governor. That made it easier for them to get away with lying, cheating and stealing. But as a life-long Democrat, I canÕt take much comfort in the fact that the Republicans behaved slightly worse than the Democrats did. My party spread vile rumors about their opponents and threatened Democratic canvassing board members who werenÕt towing the party line. The exploited racial fears. And they insisted publicly that they wanted every vote counted, while fighting to get only their votes counted. This is one of the most disturbing books IÕve ever read.<br />Oddly enough, in spite of the fact that itÕs a troubling book, itÕs also an entertaining one. The level of intrigue going on and a large cast of bizarre characters make the book hard to put down. Tapper is a terrific writer, and the book reads like a novel. And, thank goodness, it even has some heroes. There were many people Ð judges, canvassing board members, volunteers, Republicans and Democrats Ð who really seemed to care about getting the fairest and most honest count of the votes in Florida they could. Decent, hard-working, intelligent and caring people. Unfortunately, they were conned, manipulated, and finally just plain stomped on by the presidential candidates and their operatives. And votes went uncounted.<br />One of these thieves is now president, and the other may run again. Anyone who plans to vote ever again should read this book.	2001-08-08
US	53043602	R3OBP7DO52PJ7A	0385498802	223812993	Bee Season: A Novel	Books	4	20	24	N	N	A flawed but fascinating novel.	Bee Season is far from a flawless novel, and certainly not for every reader. I came very close to abandoning it several times in the middle, and if I had reviewed it without reading the final third, I would have given it no more than two stars. But in the end it comes together so beautifully that itÃ*s impossible not to forgive the author for some clumsiness along the way.<br />The novel is about family dysfunction and the search for spiritual transcendence, and if that makes it sound like an Oprah Winfrey book, nothing could be further off the mark. WhatÃ*s fascinating is the way Goldberg weaves the two themes together. Each of the four members of the Naumann family is on a spiritual quest. The father, Saul, tries to reach God by reading ancient Kabbalistic texts. At first, his teenage son, Aaron, shares his fatherÃ*s spiritual path, but when the father begins paying more attention to his sister than to him, he veers off into studying Eastern religions, finally joining  a cult. The mother, Miriam, who lost her parents in a car accident as a child, finds a strange spiritual fulfillment in stealing valueless objects that she feels she has lost  (just as she lost her family), and arranging them in what seem to her perfect and beautiful patterns. Finally, the daughter, Eliza, discovers a gift for spelling that takes her to the national spelling bee. But spelling becomes, for her, a form of meditation that leads, finally, to an encounter with God.<br />The family dysfunction comes about because, while each Naumann searches for God, none of them recognize that they are all longing for the same thing. Ironically, and tragically, their search for God pulls them farther and farther from one another. And in almost every case, that spiritual search leads them close to madness, or completely over the edge. Only Eliza, in the end, finds a balance. In a breathtaking conclusion, she finds God, and rejects her familyÃ*s obsession with spiritual perfection.<br />The flaws in this novel mostly have to do with how Goldberg describes the religious obsessions of Aaron and Saul. When Aaron talks to members of the Krishna cult he joins, the dialog is as dull as you would expect a conversation between a nerdy teenager and someone in an orange robe to be. SaulÃ*s attempts to explain the Kabbalah to Eliza suffer from the same soporific writing (and the 10-year-old ElizaÃ*s instant understanding of it is utterly unbelievable). Unfortunately, those bits of conversation take up quite a bit of the middle third of the novel Ã the place where I almost stopped reading.<br />But in the end, it works. This isnÃ*t an easy, feel-good book, but I think anyone interested in spiritual themes (and willing to hang in there through the awkward parts) would find it fascinating. IÃ*m much more aware of the mystic tradition in Catholicism than in either Judaism or Eastern religions, but the tension between the desire to transcend the world and the need to be part of it is a universal spiritual dilemma that has challenged people of all faiths, I think. And Myla Goldberg has dealt with that dilemma in a very soul-satisfying way.	2001-08-08
US	53043602	R3384RRPGOZ2IB	0385498802	223812993	Bee Season: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A flawed but fascinating novel.	Bee Season is far from a flawless novel, and certainly not for every reader. I came very close to abandoning it several times in the middle, and if I had reviewed it without reading the final third, I would have given it no more than two stars. But in the end it comes together so beautifully that itÕs impossible not to forgive the author for some clumsiness along the way.<br />The novel is about family dysfunction and the search for spiritual transcendence, and if that makes it sound like an Oprah Winfrey book, nothing could be further off the mark. WhatÕs fascinating is the way Goldberg weaves the two themes together. Each of the four members of the Naumann family is on a spiritual quest. The father, Saul, tries to reach God by reading ancient Kabbalistic texts. At first, his teenage son, Aaron, shares his fatherÕs spiritual path, but when the father begins paying more attention to his sister than to him, he veers off into studying Eastern religions, finally joining  a cult. The mother, Miriam, who lost her parents in a car accident as a child, finds a strange spiritual fulfillment in stealing valueless objects that she feels she has lost  (just as she lost her family), and arranging them in what seem to her perfect and beautiful patterns. Finally, the daughter, Eliza, discovers a gift for spelling that takes her to the national spelling bee. But spelling becomes, for her, a form of meditation that leads, finally, to an encounter with God.<br />The family dysfunction comes about because, while each Naumann searches for God, none of them recognize that they are all longing for the same thing. Ironically, and tragically, their search for God pulls them farther and farther from one another. And in almost every case, that spiritual search leads them close to madness, or completely over the edge. Only Eliza, in the end, finds a balance. In a breathtaking conclusion, she finds God, and rejects her familyÕs obsession with spiritual perfection.<br />The flaws in this novel mostly have to do with how Goldberg describes the religious obsessions of Aaron and Saul. When Aaron talks to members of the Krishna cult he joins, the dialog is as dull as you would expect a conversation between a nerdy teenager and someone in an orange robe to be. SaulÕs attempts to explain the Kabbalah to Eliza suffer from the same soporific writing (and the 10-year-old ElizaÕs instant understanding of it is utterly unbelievable). Unfortunately, those bits of conversation take up quite a bit of the middle third of the novel Ð the place where I almost stopped reading.<br />But in the end, it works. This isnÕt an easy, feel-good book, but I think anyone interested in spiritual themes (and willing to hang in there through the awkward parts) would find it fascinating. IÕm much more aware of the mystic tradition in Catholicism than in either Judaism or Eastern religions, but the tension between the desire to transcend the world and the need to be part of it is a universal spiritual dilemma that has challenged people of all faiths, I think. And Myla Goldberg has dealt with that dilemma in a very soul-satisfying way.	2001-08-08
US	53043602	R3JAC0LBUWZH8C	0698115554	878342906	Princess Smartypants	Books	1	31	56	N	N	A spoiled brat makes a lousy heroine.	Babette Cole wrote one terrific book  Prince Cinders -- that turns a fairy tale on its head. Princess Smartypants is similar to Prince Cinders, but it isnt nearly as good. The idea of a princess who has lots of interests of her own and no desire to sit around waiting for a prince to come along and save her is a good one. But Smartypants is such an annoying character that the whole thing falls apart, I think. In order to discourage her suitors, Smartypants makes up tasks they have to complete before they can claim her hand. The tasks are mean and pointless, and the princess comes across, to me at least, as a spoiled brat. A princess waiting for Prince Charming may be a lousy role model for young girls, but this bratty princess is no improvement. If youre looking for an antidote to too many fairy tales, there are lots of better alternatives...	2001-08-07
US	53043602	R2QZZA7CNENX6R	0698115546	317648599	Prince Cinders	Books	5	26	28	N	N	A charming prince.	This is one of the most charming and funny modern rewrites of a fairy tale IÕve ever read. In this version, the poor over-worked kid with the wicked stepsiblings  is a boy, Prince Cinders. Just like Cinderella, he does all the dirty work around the house, while his three big, handsome (well, they think they are anyway) brothers go out dancing and carousing. Also like Cinderella, Cinders has a fairy godmother. Unfortunately, his fairy seems to lack any qualifications  for the job, and in trying to turn him into a big, hairy, hypermasculine hunk like his brothers, she messes up and turns him into ape. I wonÕt go into all the details, but after he loses his pants (no glass slipper here), a clever and beautiful princess chooses him over the big, hairy hunks. <br />The gender switch is clever, and food for thought. But this book works because itÕs just a terrific story with a central character whoÕs a real charmer, and the illustrations are laugh-out-loud funny. My daughter and I both love this book.	2001-08-06
US	53043602	R19E9R6DKMOK8O	0698113888	370067063	Yeh-Shen: A Cinderella Story from China	Books	5	114	115	N	N	One of the best versions of Cinderella	In almost every culture, parents tell children a story that resembles the European Cinderella. Scholars have collected more than 500 versions of the story. In the past couple of decades a lot of these multicultural variations on Cinderella have been turned into children's picture books. The familiar story gives kids a great introduction to people of the world. Several of these books are very good, but two are exceptional. One is John Steptoe's &quot;Mufaro's Beautiful Daughters,&quot; an African version of the story. The other is this one.<br />&quot;Yeh-Shen,&quot; a Chinese version of the tale almost a thousand years older than the earliest known European version, contains many familiar details - a poor over-worked girl, a wicked stepmother and stepsister, a magical helper, a king in search of a wife, and a lost shoe. But while Cinderella is simply handed gifts from her fairy godmother, Yeh-Shen earns her wishes through kindness to a magic fish. This one change makes a big difference in the ethical tone of the book. It also makes the reader feel much more sympathetic toward Yeh-Shen, who seems to deserve every bit of good fortune she gets.<br />The illustrations greatly add to the book's charm. Ed Young's style is striking and unique. There's a misty, ethereal quality to his art that makes everything look as if it were taking place in a dream - which is just perfect for the book.	2001-08-05
US	53043602	R9Q4H7ZTCJITQ	0525442650	474163266	Rumpelstiltskin	Books	5	31	34	N	N	Zelinsky brings depth and beauty to a frightening fairy tale	When I was a child I remember being frightened by the story of Rumpelstiltskin. A millers daughter is ordered to spin straw into gold or the king will have her executed. An odd little man appears and offers to help her in exchange for her first born child. Finally, she makes a deal: she will be able to keep her child if she can guess the little mans name. Through stealth, she does so, and the angry little man flies away on a cooking spoon. All fairy tales have an odd element to them, but this one was so bizarre it was scary. And every character in it is despicable, including the greedy king, who the millers daughter marries (was that supposed to be a happy ending?).<br />Paul Zelinsky hasnt altered a single detail of the odd story, but his illustrations, based on Italian Renaissance oil paintings,  make the tale clearer and far less frightening. His control of gesture and facial expression is marvelous, and as you watch the millers daughters face change from innocence to wariness to fear for her child, to intelligent calculation, and finally to triumph, it is obvious that this is a story of a young woman making her way from complete innocence, where she is at the mercy of others, to an intelligent (if crafty) control of her own life. The best picture in the book is the final one: the millers daughter, now queen, looks down on her baby with love, while the greedy king stands looking on, a little dumbfounded, a little awed. There may be hope for this relationship after all.<br />This is a book my daughter asks me to read over and over, and Im more than happy to do so.	2001-08-05
US	53043602	R17C6T1R8P15RN	0688040454	981181812	Mufaro's Beautiful Daughters (Reading Rainbow Books)	Books	5	96	96	N	N	An African Cinderella story deeper than the European version	This book is usually described as an African variation on Cinderella and it has a similar story - when a king invites the women of his kingdom to come to his palace so that he can choose the most worthy to be his wife, two sisters appear before him and he chooses the kinder of the two. But this version of Cinderella is infinitely superior to the tale most Americans grow up on. The European Cinderella is a beloved story, but it contains a lot of odd messages. Cinderella is both good and beautiful, her stepsisters are ugly inside and out. Is the implication that only attractive people can be good? Cinderella's &quot;goodness&quot; doesn't seem to consist of anything but being a doormat. And when the prince falls in love with her, he doesn't seem to know anything about her except that she is beautiful.<br />In John Steptoe's version, inspired by an African folktale, the two sisters are both beautiful, but the beauty of one, Manyara, is only external. Her sister, Nyasha, the &quot;Cinderella&quot; character is beautiful inside and out. And her goodness doesn't consist just of doing what she's told to do. She's kind to all creatures, even Manyara. Furthermore, the king chooses her to be his queen not because of her beauty, but because he has secretly seen her her kindness and generosity (and her sister's meaness) in action. He chooses a good soul, not just a beautiful face. This version has all the elements that make Cinderella a classic, but ethically it's far, far better.<br />And as if that weren't enough, the illustrations in this book are sheer magic. More than any book we've read, this one has inspired in my daughter a fascination with Africa. The details of Steptoe's paintings, drawn from the plants, animals and architecture of Zimbabwe, are glorious. Everytime we read the book, my daughter and I talk about new things we notice about the pictures. I can't think of a single children's book I like better than this one.	2001-08-05
US	53043602	RGWAGS2MVTBJZ	0688131077	578829995	Princess Furball	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A feisty and clever Cinderella	There are more than five hundred variations on the Cinderella story. This one has the most interesting &quot;Cinderella&quot; character that I know of. There's no fairy godmother, although there is an old nurse who teaches her all she needs to know &quot;to be strong and capable and clever, besides being beautiful.&quot; Using her wits and skills, she escapes an arranged marriage to an ogre, and wins the love of a handsome prince. I think it's a much better message for little girls than some of the baggage that comes from the French version of Cinderella that most of us grew up on. And Anita Lobel's illustrations are unusual and charming.	2001-08-05
US	53043602	R1TCKQLSVW4SCO	0525456074	395008932	Rapunzel (Caldecott Honor Book)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A moving story, beautifully illustrated	I first encountered this exquisite book when it was featured at a book store's children's story hour. Unfortunately, I didn't get to hear the end, because several mothers insisted that the reader abandon it and go on to the next book. You see, in this version, months after the prince climbs Rapunzel's hair to the tower where she is imprisoned, she gives birth to twins. The children listening to the story were roughly 2 to 6 years old and I guess their mothers didn't want them exposed to a fairy tale heroine giving birth.<br />What a loss! When I finally got a copy of the book to read, I found it to be one of the most moving children's books I've ever come across. The first part of the story is the one everyone remembers from childhood. A sorceress locks Rapunzel in a tower that no one can reach unless the young woman lets them climb up her long hair, but a prince learns her secret and enters the tower. In the rather lame version I remember hearing as a child, the prince takes her away (I can't even remember how they got out of the tower), marries her and they live happily ever after. In this version, the sorceress discovers Rapunzel's pregnancy and banishes her from the tower. She then tricks the prince into climbing to the top of the tower, and causes him to fall, which blinds him. Rapunzel and the prince wander in the wilderness until they find each other. In the end, Rapunzel's tears of love and pity fall across the prince's eyes and cure his blindness.<br />It's a lovely tale of healing love, deepened by the illustrations, which are not just beautiful, but full of wonderful details, gestures and facial expressions that bring out the humanity, the love, the fears, and the triumphs of the characters.  Every time I read this book, my daughter stops me repeatedly to talk about what the characters are thinking and feeling - things she picks up more from the illustrations than the story itself. It's one of her favorite books, and one of mine as well.	2001-08-05
US	53043602	RT8QMIHEQT5KR	0671884239	294233551	Books That Build Character: A Guide to Teaching Your Child Moral Values Through Stories	Books	5	39	43	N	N	A thoughtful guide to children's literature.	The title of this book made me a little wary, and the subtitle made me downright uncomfortable. First problem: Ive found that when people toss around terms like &quot;moral values,&quot; theyre often talking about some narrow, even mean-spirited &quot;values&quot; that I dont think are the least bit moral. Second, I have a passion for childrens books, but detest books that preach to children. I dont care whether theyre preaching obey your parents and do your homework or take care of Mother Earth and respect human diversity  I hate preachy books.<br />Fortunately, this is a much richer book than its title led me to expect. The authors dislike didacticism in childrens books as much as I do, and they make a strong case that well-chosen books give children good role models, increase their empathy for others, and dont just hand children simplistic moral precepts, but give them the opportunity to think about and discuss moral choices. And that, of course, is exactly what all of us need to grow into ethical human beings.<br />Most of the book consists of a list of recommended books, divided by age group. The recommendations are, for the most part, excellent, as are the comments on the books. Im pretty knowledgeable about childrens literature, but Ive discovered quite a few unknown gems through this book, and have found the comments on books I know well to be insightful and interesting. Along with Jim Treleases &quot;The Read-Aloud Handbook,&quot; I think this is one of the best guides to childrens books that Ive come across.	2001-08-04
US	53043602	RWNOB3LU4A6VW	0440506328	160632381	I'll Tell You a Story, I'll Sing You a Song	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Essential for parents	Along with Jim Trelease's Read-Aloud Handbook, this is a book no parent should be without. It contains short, to the point versions of every story you half-remember hearing when you were a kid (sure, the ugly duckling turns out to be a swan at the end, but do you remember what happens in between?), nursery rhymes and the lyrics to children's songs, and Aesop's fables  all essential for parents to share with children. When it comes time to tell a bedtime story, I'd be lost without this book.	2001-07-31
US	53043602	R1C1QIY8H1P7KM	0064400557	121564266	Charlotte's Web (Trophy Newbery)	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Read it even if you don't have children.	One of the best reasons for having children is having an excuse to read Charlotte's Web. I just finished reading it to my youngest child, and cried just as hard as a did when I first read it to her brother a decade ago. <br />The story is about a spider who saves a pig from being turned into bacon and pork chops by weaving words to describe him into her web, convincing everyone that a miracle has occurred, and that there must be something very special about this pig. <br />Charlotte, the spider, is kind, noble, and brave  a model of perfect friendship. Wilbur, the pig, is childlike and innocent at the beginning, but he grows wiser under Charlotte's influence throughout the book. The book is beautifully written in simple, graceful language. It's just a pleasure to read from beginning to end.<br />There is one thing that anyone planning to read the book to a young child ought to know.  At the end, after laying her eggs, Charlotte dies. I had actually forgotten about that when I started reading the book to my 6-year-old recently, and when, halfway through the book, I remembered, I was a little worried about what her reaction would be. But as I got closer and closer to Charlotte's death, I realized how skillfully E.B. White handled the scene. For a couple of chapters before, you see Charlotte growing weaker and weaker. My daughter kept moving closer to me, sensing, I'm sure, that something was wrong. Charlotte's death doesn't come as a shock. Even a kindergartner seemed to sense that it was coming. More important, in the scene after Charlotte dies, Wilbur guards her eggs until her babies are born, and while most of them fly away, three baby spiders stay behind and become his friends. He's able to guide them the way Charlotte guided him, which gives a wonderful sense of continuity. <br />I don't think Charlotte's death is a reason not to read the book to a child, but I think if you're planning to read it to a child under 8 or so, you should read it to yourself first to be sure your child is ready for it.	2001-07-30
US	53043602	RZP2ULFECJZAT	0394890485	883426141	My Father's Dragon	Books	5	172	176	N	N	The perfect first chapter book	This was the first chapter book I read to my son, when he was 4, and I couldn't have found a better choice. The story is simple and easy to follow &#8212; a nine-year-old boy saves an enslaved baby dragon and then flies home on the dragon's back. The book's language is simple and direct. And there's a black and white drawing on almost every other page, which is perfect, because most young children still need a picture to look at while they're listening. <br />The best thing about the book for me was that even though there's plenty of action (mostly involving the little boy outsmarting a series of wild animals in order to reach the dragon), there's nothing the least bit scary here. That was very important to me as the mother of a four-year-old. The book was written in the forties, and it has a sweet, gentle, old-fashioned quality that it's hard to find in any form of entertainment for young children today. (Even Disney is too intense for a lot of four-year-olds.) It has the kind of innocence most of us would like our children to be able to hang on to for a few years.<br />My son loved the book so much we read it over and over again, and went on to read the other two books in the series (Elmer and the Dragon and The Dragons of Blueland) many times as well.<br />Years later, when he was in third grade, his teacher mentioned to me that she was hunting for a chapter book to read to the class, but wasn't having much luck. Everything she looked at seemed beyond the attention span of many of the kids in her class. I told her about My Father's Dragon, but I also said it probably wasn't exciting enough to hold the attention of third graders. But she tried it anyway, and later told me that kids who had never shown any interest in books were reminding her every day to read another chapter. She, too, went on to read the whole series.<br />It's a great introduction to chapter books. More important, it's a lovely, gentle book to share with a child.	2001-07-28
US	53043602	R3UPWNGAMWH3XB	0306808129	91416744	Rage To Survive	Books	3	53	64	N	N	I really wish I could say this was a great book	Maybe my expectations were too high. I've never heard Etta James sing a song I didn't love. Not only does she have one of the most breathtaking voices in popular music, but she uses it brilliantly. She sings every song from the depths of her soul, and at the same time she's a very intelligent singer, obviously very much aware of, and in control of, her craft. I was hoping she'd bring the same kind of feeling and intelligence to telling the story of her life.<br />And it's a great story. Abandoned by her father and growing up in poverty with a difficult mother, Etta James became a juvenile delinquent, and over the course of her life faced down just about every form of addiction you can think of, from food to heroin. She was saved by a gift for music, which other people, thank god, recognized almost as soon as she opened her mouth.<br />So I began reading, knowing I was digging into a great story written by an intelligent and sensitive woman. But as I read, I found myself growing more and more disappointed. The book has some wonderful anecdotes about the nastiness of the music business and the foibles of a lot of famous people. They're entertaining and sometimes even enlightening - and they're the reason I wouldn't rate this book any lower than three stars.<br />But something goes wrong when she writes about herself. A lot of reviewers have praised her &quot;honesty&quot; in accepting responsiblity for her mistakes and addictions.That's certainly an admirable quality, but it doesn't necessarily make for interesting writing. Again and again, James tells you the sordid details of her mistakes, says it was her own fault, and then goes on to something else. And every time she does so, I felt cheated of any insight into what led her down the paths she took. She sounds like someone who hasn't really come to terms with her problems, and therefore most of the book seems rather superficial.<br />The story is inherently interesting and it would probably make a great movie, but its unwillingness to probe below the surface kept it from being a great book.its unwillingness to probe below the surface kept it from being a great book.	2001-07-25
US	53043602	R3E4DVU5MYWULM	0912511060	710497444	Family Math (Equals Series)	Books	5	260	261	N	N	Fun ways to help your children love math	I hate math. Memories of trying to understand long division in fourth grade can still make me squirm. Algebra was a lost year of my life - I had no idea what the teacher was talking about. Wouldn't you  just guess I'd end up with a son who could add two digit numbers in his head before he started kindergarten? (I'm over 40 and I still can't do it very well) He even thought it was fun to do so.<br />You can probably guess that the normal elementary school math curriculum did not thrill him. Fortunately, early on, his kindergarten teacher lent me her copy of this book, and suggested that it might help him get started on understanding some higher math concepts, while still being age appropriate. The words &quot;higher math&quot; were not exactly music to the ears of a math phobe like me. But within a couple of weeks, after trying out a few games, I was hooked, and bought my own copy. <br />During the time he was in elementary school, I think we did at least 3/4 of the activities in the book, not because I thought he should, but because he wanted to. And, to my enormous surprise, so did I. The games and activities in this book are so intriguing that even I began to develop a sense of what it must feel like to really love math. (And, amazingly enough, I even got a little better at basic arithmetic.) Several of the games were so much fun, they became obsessions. We played them day after day.<br />My younger child, who recently finished kindergarten, doesn't remotely share her brother's love of numbers, but this year I dug out my old copy of the book to see if it might get her more interested. Sure enough, it worked. The games of logic and the games designed to develop rapid mental arithmetic skills that so fascinated her brother don't really interest her. In fact, most of the book is still way beyond her skill level. But I've found quite a few games that are appropriate for a child still struggling to add and subtract single digit numbers. (She says they're more fun thanthe math games they play at school). And there are several activities (Tangrams, and Color Designs, for instance) that take advantage of her love of art to help her understand math better. At the end of kindergarten, my daughter told me that her favorite school subject was math. I have no doubt that her exposure to Family Math games had a lot to do with that. And I have no doubt that we'll be using this book more and more over the next few years.	2001-07-21
US	53043602	R1PEIX298P2TU1	0394826205	883156961	Swimmy	Books	5	84	84	N	N	A poetic masterpiece for young children	A lot of children's books deal with sharing and getting along with others. A lot try to help children be themselves. The brilliance of Leo Lionni is that in book after book he brings these two ideas together, showing children that they can be themselves and care about others at the same time. Many of Lionni's best books - Frederick, Alexander and the Wind-Up Mouse, Tico and the Golden Wings, and Swimmy - all deal with this theme.<br />Of all these, Swimmy is probably the one with the most immediate appeal to small children. The idea of little fish banding together to scare off the big bully fish is really empowering to small children. And the illustrations are delightful.<br />As a writer and former English teacher, I also love Lionni's simple poetic language. You have to love a writer who writes about &quot;an eel whose tail was almost too far away to remember&quot; and describes sea anemones as &quot;pink palm trees swaying in the wind.&quot; Hearing such beautiful and evocative language from an early age can't help but make children better readers and writers later on.<br />If I could, I'd send every baby home from the hospital with one of Rosemary Wells' Max books and this book. It belongs in every library.	2001-07-20
US	53043602	R278I0BAP4IHY1	0394842383	156570264	Geraldine, The Music Mouse	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Get this book back in print!	This is just a simple little fable about a mouse who discovers music. Geraldine nibbles at a big piece of cheese until the remaining shape looks like a flute-playing mouse. Magically, the cheese mouse begins to play a tune, and Geraldine is so enchanted that later, when she and her friends are hungry, she can't bring herself to eat the cheese for fear of losing its music.<br />Both my children love music and they both loved this story. I think that even at a young age they understood how difficult it would be to have to make a choice between what you need and what you love. And as for me, well, every time I read it to them, I got more out of it. It's a rich, wise, deep story, but one simple enough for many four or five year olds.<br />What a shame it's out of print. Thank God for libraries.	2001-07-20
US	53043602	R34B8I40S7C0PE	0140469710	45654982	The Read-Aloud Handbook: Third Revised Edition (Read-Aloud Handbook)	Books	5	30	30	N	N	The one book every parent needs	The Read-Aloud Handbook came out in the eighties, at a time when reading to children had pretty much fallen by the wayside, replaced by television. It offered parents not only good reasons to read to children (developing language skills and imaginations, encouraging children to want to read to themselves), and lots of hints on how to start and keep up daily reading, but also a well-chosen list of books for kids of different ages and interests.<br />As far as I'm concerned, the luckiest break I got as a parent was that this book came out the year my first child was born. I bought my first copy then, I've bought subsequent editions of the book, and I've referred to it constantly, more than any other parenting book I have (Not even good old Dr. Spock comes close). I've recommended it to many friends, and they all come away raving about it as much as I do.<br />By now, I think most parents realize that reading to kids is important. It's just not always easy to do. People are busy, it's hard to find the time. And then, even if you do manage to find the time, kids may not like the books you pick. That picture book you remember fondly from childhood turns out to be a little stodgy and old-fashioned, and your child just won't sit still for it. Or you pick up the latest hyped children's book, and your child loves it, but you feel like you are going to go insane if you have to read this syrupy garbage one more time. Despite the best intentions, it's easy to let the habit fall by the wayside.<br />That's why every parent needs Jim Trelease's book. The first half of the book focuses on why you should read to kids and how to do it. Trelease is such an inspiring writer, that even when your best intentions flag, he will convince you to keep going. <br />But the heart and soul of the book is the list of read-aloud books. It's hard to explain what a great job Trelease has done with this. Not only are his choices almost universally excellent, but he gives enough of a description of each book so that a parent can really tell whether or not the book will be right for his child. Even better, Trelease follows each review with a list of other books that a child who liked that particular book will probably also enjoy. With Trelease's help, there's no reason for any child to be without a nice big pile of books from the library ready to enjoy. <br />I've looked at several other books that claim to help parents in reading to their children and offer similar lists, but none are a tenth as good. The descriptions are often skimpy and the book choices are poor (usually focusing on books that are more appealing to adults than children). Lots of them recommend books that are long out of print. I've rarely found any of of Trelease's recommendations unavailable.<br />One final note: This is not just a book for new parents, and parents of young children. Trelease also discusses how to get older children turned on to reading. And his list of chapter books to read to children is even better than his picture book list. If it's hard for parents to find good picture books to read to their children, it's even harder to find good novels to read to older children, because it takes so long to preview one yourself. I read to my oldest child until long after he became a proficient reader himself, but I cannot imagine how I could have found such good books to read without Jim Trelease's help.<br />So whether you're a new parent, or the parent of an older child who isn't interested in reading yet, you need this book.	2001-07-20
US	53043602	R3TB21HTF1GMAC	0394829115	399709975	Alexander and the Wind-Up Mouse (Pinwheel Books)	Books	5	55	56	N	N	One of Lionni's most moving stories	I love Leo Lionni's books. His gentle fables and parables deal with some of the most important lessons children need to learn - about friendship, generosity, and being true to yourself. They're deeply moral books, but they never preach or oversimplify.<br />This is one of Lionni's deepest and most moving books. In it, Alexander, a despised house mouse meets another mouse - a child's beloved wind-up toy. The contrast between Alexander's unhappy life and the life of the pampered toy mouse makes him feel so sorry for himself that he misses important clues that life is not so great for the wind-up mouse after all. When he learns about a way to earn a magic wish, he realizes he can use it to turn himself into a toy. But before he's able to accomplish his goal, he finds the wind-up in the garbage. He uses his wish to turn the wind-up into a real mouse.<br />Alexander learns that the most important thing is to be true to himself, not turn himself into what others want. But in doing so, he also reaches out to help someone else. <br />You may read this book dozens, even hundreds, of times before a child picks up the nuances of that message. But the key is that most children will ask to hear the story that many times, and most adults will love it so much they won't mind repeating it.	2001-07-20
US	53043602	R1IK8EGTK75I5W	0394826140	137613708	Frederick	Books	5	96	100	N	N	Encouraging children's creativity	In a children's bookstore, I once heard a father tell his son to put back a picture book because it was &quot;garbage.&quot; Maybe he saw the shocked look on my face, because he started lecturing me about how children today need to learn a lot of things and they don't have time to waste on fairy tales and other stories.<br />Unfortunately, his point of view is becoming more common. It looks like this generation of children is going to grow up in a world that cares more about their ability to memorize facts and formulas and regurgitate them for standardized tests than it cares about their ideas and imaginations.<br />Leo Lionni's books - especially Frederick - are great antidotes to that narrow mindset. <br />Frederick is an artistic and imaginative little mouse. While his family gathers food for the winter, Frederick sits around observing. The other mice criticize him for being lazy, but Frederick insists that what he's doing is important - he's collecting words and colors. When winter finally comes, of course, the food Frederick's family gathered sustains them. But eventually the food runs out and it is Frederick's vivid memories of the colors of spring, as well as his poems and stories, that take the other mice's minds off their troubles and get them through the winter.<br />I don't think there's a better book about the importance of nurturing the imagination than Frederick. When Lionni first wrote it, in 1966, it became an instant classic. Today it's not just a great children's book, it's a crucial one.	2001-07-19
US	53043602	R1U4KRO8EUEUET	0394830784	565944533	Tico and the Golden Wings (Knopf Children's Paperbacks)	Books	5	34	34	N	N	A parable about sharing and being yourself	I've been reading books to children for almost two decades, and Leo Lionni's books have always been among my favorites. They're simple in the same way that the parables of Jesus are simple - the meaning of the stories is immediately clear, yet they are deep and wise, and the stories stay with you forever.<br />Tico and the Golden Wings is not one of Lionni's best known books (Swimmy and Frederick probably fill that category - and both of them are terrific), but it's one of my favorites. It's about a bird born without wings, who cannot fly like his friends. The friends are kind to him, but he feels left out because he cannot do the things they do. Wishing for wings, he gets his wish, but the wings are made of gold. As Tico flies around the world, he encounters people with great needs and tries to help them by giving each of them one of the gold feathers from his wings. His reward for this generosity is to grow a real feather for every golden one he gives away.<br />In the end, Tico returns to his friends, who are thrilled to see him with wings just like theirs. They think he is now just like them, but Tico nurtures an understanding that his thoughts and experiences are not like those of his friends, that inside he is still different.<br />The message is simple: you can care about others and still nurture your own indivuality. What is special about this book, though, is not just the lovely and wise message, but the fact that it remains lovely, and not the least bit cloying or preachy, after hundreds of readings. You can read this book to any three or four year old who has enough experience with books to sit still for a quiet story, and continue reading it to him or her for years, knowing the child will get more out of it each time he or she hears it.	2001-07-19
US	53043602	R1HQFM28GT2ABP	1558580093	623510960	The Rainbow Fish	Books	1	260	330	N	N	Beware of over-hyped children's books	This book is very pretty. I've read it to a group of children (not my choice - a teacher asked me to do so) and to my own child, who got it out of the library, and I've certainly seen its appeal to young children. They can't sit still. They just have to reach out and touch the lovely, shiny, foil scales. (Although the look of disappointment on their faces when they find out it's just a flat surface is also obvious.)<br />I think getting children interested in books at a young age is crucial, so ordinarily I would love a book with this kind of appeal, even if it wasn't a book that especially appealed to me. I perfectly understand that sometimes children and adults have different tastes.<br />But this book, despite its prettiness, is awful. A beautiful fish, different from all the other fish because of his glittering, jewel-colored scales, has a hard time making friends, because the other fish don't like the fact that he does not look like them. In order to win friends, he gives away his scales, one by one, until all the fish in the ocean look alike. I understand that the book is supposed to be about sharing, but giving away everything you have isn't sharing, it's buying friends. That's something many young children are already prone to do, and it's not something any caring parent or teacher would want to encourage.<br />The book's success also bothers me because it is a blatant rip-off of a much better book - Leo Lionni's classic Tico and the Golden Wings. In Lionni's book, a bird gives away the golden feathers of its wings. But the tone of the book is very different. Lionni's bird is born without wings, unable to fly. He wishes for wings, and is granted golden ones. As he flies around the world, he sees people living lives of great hardship and he gives each person one of his golden feathers in order to help them. Each time he gives away a golden feather, a real one grows in its place. In the end, his bird friends see him with his black wings and tell him that now he's just like them. But Tico realizes that although he looks like them, he is different inside.<br />Unlike The Rainbow Fish, Tico and the Golden Wings teaches children to be generous AND to be themselves. It doesn't make it seem like it's impossible to be a unique individual and still get along with others.e's just like them. But Tico realizes that although he looks like them, he is different inside.<br />Unlike The Rainbow Fish, Tico and the Golden Wings teaches children to be generous AND to be themselves. It doesn't make it seem like it's impossible to be a unique individual and still get along with others.	2001-07-19
US	53043602	R9NW163PBZA8V	0140562737	283272400	Miss Bindergarten Gets Ready for Kindergarten (Miss Bindergarten Books (Paperback))	Books	5	138	139	N	N	A book for every child starting school	Looking at this book from the point of view of an adult, I didn't get it. The illustrations are decent, but nothing spectacular. The rhymes are not particularly inventive. And not much happens in the book, which simply shows a teacher getting her classroom ready for the first day of kindergarten, while students are getting ready in their own way - eating breakfast, saying good-bye (or clinging to mom), getting on the bus, and so forth. It's also an alphabet book. Each child in the class has a name that begins with a different letter of the alphabet. But there are hundreds of alphabet books on the market, I thought, and many of them are more clever or better illustrated than this one.<br />Boy, was I wrong. I got this book out of the library the summer before my daughter started kindergarten. She was a little nervous about starting. She's the type of kid who wants to stand back and observe every situation before she plunges in. That made her the perfect kid for this book. While we had it out of the library, she asked me to read it several times every day. I ended up buying a copy of the book before returning the library copy, because it would have broken her heart to be without it.<br />My daughter just finished kindergarten, and I have read this book literally hundreds of times. She still loves it, and I think I've finally figured out why it's so appealing. At the beginning of the book, you see a dark, empty, slightly scary looking classroom. For a child who's afraid of starting school, I think that's a pretty good image of her expectation. But a nice teacher comes in and adds blocks, play kitchen toys, mobiles, paint and brushes, posters, crayons and pencils, etc. and turns the classroom into a beautiful, inviting place. Little by little a child learns to see the classroom as a good place to be. Also, as the teacher adds each new thing, it gives the child a chance to see and talk about some of the new things she will discover when she gets there.<br />This book hasalready become a classic. It was the first book my daughter's kindergarten teacher read to the class (from talking to other parents, I've discovered that's true in a LOT of classes). And hearing a familiar and adored book the first day of school added to my daughter's sense of comfort.<br />If you have a child who has any apprehension about starting school, this book is probably the best tool available for  helping him or her overcome it.	2001-07-18
US	53043602	R16K1YPQPLENBM	0803722664	686266467	Max's Bath (Max and Ruby)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A rare toddler book that parents love	This is one of the Max board book series that also includes Max's Birthday, Max's Toys, and Max's Bedtime. They are supposedly intended for children from birth to age 2 or so. There are also several non-board books about  Max  (Max's Chocolate Chicken, and Bunny Money are my favorites) with longer stories designed for slightly older children.<br />Forget the designated ages. I told my teenage son I had written a couple of reviews of children's books for Amazon and he said, &quot;Don't forget to review Max.&quot; He STILL loves them, and wants everyone to know how good they are. When he was 10, he loved reading them to his baby sister, and I understood how he felt. When he was a toddler, the Max books were the only children's books I read that REALLY made me laugh.<br />Max and Ruby are brother and sister bunnies. Ruby's a little bossy. Max always gets around her in the end. But their relationship remains a genuinely sweet and loving one. Small children, I think, just love the clean-lined, simple pictures, and the striking expressions on Max and Ruby's faces. But any adult or older child who reads the books will see Max as one of the great trickster characters of all times, and Rosemary Wells as one of the most insightful writers around on sibling rivalry.<br />Do NOT let any child - yours or anyone else's you know - get through being a toddler without meeting Max.	2001-07-18
US	53043602	R2YWZZQ6MZ26OO	0803722737	489163791	Max's Breakfast (Max and Ruby)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	One of the best toddler books around	Rosemary Wells is, without a doubt, the best writer for small children who ever lived, and the Max books are her masterpieces. This one is a perfect example of why she's so good. The story is so simple and so true to life a 1-year-old can easily follow it: Max's bossy big sister Ruby wants him to eat an egg. But Max doesn't want the egg, he wants strawberries. (And what toddler isn't going to identify with a picky eater?) Max keeps hiding the egg until an exasperated Ruby takes a bite herself, to show him how delicious it is, then another bite, and another. The final page shows Max with a triumphant look on his face saying &quot;All gone.&quot; <br />Children love Max. Adults laugh out loud when they read the Max books. He's just a charmer and a scamp and you can't help but love him. There are several nice, pleasant books for toddler's available, but very few really entertaining ones. Max's Breakfast (and all of the Max books, for that matter) is one of the best.	2001-07-18
US	53043602	RJIL2I2GQDLEF	0803722672	866370781	Max's Bedtime	Books	5	22	23	N	N	A book both toddler's and their parents can enjoy	Every child deserves to be read to from the moment his or her eyes can focus on a page. The problem is that most of the books that appeal to children under two, with simple, uncluttered pictures and only a few words per page ( and usually no story to speak of) are not exactly fun to read if you're any older than two. You read them because you feel obligated to, not because you want to.<br />Rosemary Wells' Max books are different. They have great appeal to small children (I had to buy two sets of the books for my two children, because my son wore his out by hugging them so much. They were in shreds by the time his sister came along.) But adults can read them over and over again and never get tired of them.  The stories and the illustrations are hilarious, and priceless. <br />In this one, Max can't sleep without his red rubber elephant, so his older sister Ruby tries to give him substitutes, including a snake. The wide-eyed look on Max's face when he has a stuffed snake wrapped around him is, all by itself, worth the price of the book. In the end, Max finds his elephant, and tucks in Ruby, who has fallen asleep. The role reversal - the younger brother taking care of his older sister - is really sweet. <br />But mostly the book is just clever and funny and wonderful. If you have a new baby, you are going to have to read a lot of truly boring books in the next couple of years. Do yourself a favor and buy at least a few of the Max books. You might even make it through the terrible twos with your sanity intact.	2001-07-18
US	53043602	R3DDIZ4CN237EU	0395442354	876507432	How My Parents Learned to Eat (Rise and Shine)	Books	5	59	62	N	N	A wonderful message with no preaching	A bi-racial child tells the story of how her Japanese mother and American father met, fell in love, struggled to understand each other's ways, and finally married. It's a wonderful portrait of diversity, showing children that superficial differences in cultures don't really mean much and shouldn't get in the way of people appreciating each other. But just as important to me is the fact that this is one of the few children's books I know of that shows adults falling in love in a realistic way - no fairy tale, love at first sight kind of thing, but a picture of love growing as two people learn more about each other. Those two qualities - its appreciation of cultural diversity and its honest portrait of love - make it a little gem.	2001-07-17
US	53043602	R2DBUUTXFXNL3X	156025355X	59832297	The Betrayal of America: How the Supreme Court Undermined the Constitution and Chose Our President (Nation Books)	Books	2	6	16	N	N	Honest, but disappointing	I read the first few pages of this book with a sense of relief that finally somenone was saying what needed to be said: the Supreme Court's decision to hand the election to George Bush without  bothering to count the votes in Florida was one of the most outrageous and  unconscionable things that has been done in American history. The fact that the court cited the equal protection clause - designed to protect minorities against the tyranny of the majority - when a large percentage of the votes being thrown out were those of minority voters was sickening. And the fact that they said their decision could not be used as a precedent demonstrated that even they didn't believe what they were saying. <br />But outrage has its limits. After reading a few pages where Bugliosi's anger matched my own, I began to tire of  the whole thing. This story needs to be told, but by a better writer than Bugliosi, one who has taken time to sift through all the events and offers details we haven't previously seen, and insights that aren't obvious.<br />There are other books on the subject that I'm hoping are better: the New York Times and Miami Herald reports, Alan Dershowitz's new book, Jake Tapper's Down and Dirty, and Jeff Greenfield's Oh, Waiter, One Order of Crow, about the media's role in the affair. I plan to read at least a couple of those.<br />This is a book for people whose anger over the election is so great that they can sit still while someone says over and over for more than a hundred pages that the Supreme Court committed a crime. It needs to be said, but I think most readers want more.	2001-07-14
US	53043602	ROS2KAVX6IVLY	0375757147	196227364	Shrub : The Short but Happy Political Life of George W. Bush	Books	4	28	36	N	N	Smart, funny and full of insight	Any reviewer who says Molly Ivins has an ax to grind against George Bush either hasn't read this book, or doesn't know how to read very well. During the election fiasco, I heard a reporter ask her what mistakes people make most often in evaluating Bush and she said, &quot;He's not stupid and he's not mean,&quot; and she admitted that although she disagreed with his politics, she found him, personally, a pretty nice guy. She's about as far from a political hatchet wielder as a writer can get.<br />The truth is, Molly Ivins has been covering Texas politics all her professional life and probably understands it better than any human being. She approaches the topic with a little bit of pride in the state's quirky individuality, a little embarassment  at its occasional insanity and meanness, and with her low-key, off the wall sense of humor always in tact. She knows the world that made George Bush better than anyone around, and her insights into his character and philosophy are always interesting.<br />And how can you not love a political writer who makes you laugh?<br />This book was written during the election, and so there's nothing in it about either the election itself, or Bush's tenure so far as president. I hope Ivins will be covering those topics in a future book, and will bring as much humor and insight there as she does here	2001-07-14
US	53043602	R2YTU05NKFBAQY	0805063889	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	5	12	16	N	N	The most important book of the year	I finished reading this book yesterday, and, out of curiosity, came to Amazon to see what the reviews were like. As I expected, most of the reviews were 4 or 5 stars. It's a wonderful book. But the 1-star reviews are fascinating. If you've read the book, it's pretty obvious that only one of the 1-star reviewers shows any sign of MAYBE having read the book. The rest of them just saw a review somewhere, or perhaps heard Dr. Ehrenreich speak on t.v. and the idea of someone speaking up for the working poor scared them so badly, shook their bigotry so deeply, that they had to strike back by trashing a book they didn't even bother to read.<br />The vehemence of those people, their readiness to attack the most vulnerable people in this country tells you why this book is so important.<br />The truth - which you'll hear again and again from people who've actually read the book - is that this is a book that every American citizen ought to read. And - lucky us - it's one of those rare &quot;must read&quot; books that is also compelling, beautifully written, and impossible to put down.<br />You can't read this book and not change the way you look at the world. I was raised by a single mother who worked poorly paid jobs all her life and in high school and college I worked several of those jobs myself, so I consider myself pretty sensitive to the difficulty of low wage workers' jobs and lives. But this book shocked even me. The last time I worked for the minimum wage, in the mid-seventies, it was hand to mouth, but I could get by. I had to go to work with the flu a few times because I had no sick days and couldn't afford the loss of a day's pay, but as long as I showed up for work every day, I could pay my rent and buy food. Not much of it, and most of it pasta and rice, but I could at least survive. After reading Dr. Ehrenreich's book, I realize that's not even possible anymore. The poverty I knew thirty years ago doesn't even begin to compare with what people in the same circumstances face today.<br />But Dr. Ehrenreich is not just insightful when she's dealing with the economic difficulties in poor people's lives. This is one of the few non-fiction books I've ever read that shows a real insight into the psychology of poverty - the way it strips people of their dignity, their energy, and, in many cases, their ability to fight back. Again and again, as I read the book, I was reminded of all the daily indignities you experience as a poor person, and how those indignities act as a means of social control - and my experiences as a poor person came before employers got really expert at stripping away people's dignity with things like urine tests and invasive psychological profiles.<br />I think Dr. Ehrenreich made one slip in writing this book. She says that she decided to keep her car, even though many working poor people have to get by without one, because she thought a book about sitting around waiting for buses would be pretty boring. Maybe. But her choice made her miss one important psychological insight. Spend too much of your life waiting for buses - which in many cases just pass you by because they're already packed - and that becomes the central fact of your life. You wait for things, and if nothing comes, you wait some more. People learn the skills life teaches them, and having to depend on buses teaches people an inordinate patience that can be hard to shake off.<br />You will find it impossible not to care about the people in this book. If you've bought any of the current cliches about poverty stemming from laziness, addictions, or poor choices in life, be prepared to have your prejudices blown away.<br />As I read this book, I found myself constantly aware of the people I depend on every day, wondering about their lives. And, most important, wondering what I can do to make them better. I don't know the answer. A lot of the 1-star reviewers suggest that Dr. Ehrenreich gives some &quot;socialistic&quot; answer to the problem, but infact, she doesn't offer a solution at all. All she does is remind us vividly and unforgettably that there is a problem, an urgent problem, and that we'd better begin figuring out ways to solve it. She reminds us of our common humanity. And we owe her our gratitude for that.	2001-07-10
US	53043602	R20D5LHHQPUAT5	0876591772	568566848	MathArts: Exploring Math Through Art for 3 to 6 Year Olds	Books	3	17	24	N	N	Disappointing	I was a little disappointed in this book. Family Math and Peggy Kaye's Games for Math cover similar territory in a much better way. The activities in those books are more fun and the authors do a better job of explaining  what skills kids will learn from doing the activities. There are a half  dozen or so projects I will try, but most of them don't seem worth the  effort.	2000-06-15
US	53043602	R2PJB512O52V2T	0893751170	871112761	Twelve Dancing Princesses	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A beautiful children's book	This is one of the best books my five year old daughter and I have ever read. We first got it out of the library, but I just ordered it because it's a book I know we'll re-read hundreds of times. Everybody knows the  Grimm's story: twelve princesses escape every night to go dancing. Their  father, the king, doesn't know where they go, only that that in the morning  their dancing shoes are in tatters. He offers the hand of one of his  daughers in marriage to any suitor who can discover their secrets.Many try,  and finally one succeeds. There are two wonderful things about this  version. One is that it's clear at the end of the book that the daughter  who is chosen doesn't marry the man who figured out their secret. She  chooses him  and plans to keep right on dancing after she gets married!  The second great thing about this book is the illustrations, which are so  beautiful, you just want to look at them again and again. More important,  the princesses are all beautiful, but in exotic and interesting ways. No  one size fits all Disneyesque beauties here. Each face is unique. One even  wears glasses! Terrific book.	2000-04-05
US	53043602	R22J8TQI5GCYAY	0375400117	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha	Books	3	0	3	N	N	Very disappointing book	Memoirs of a Geisha is a page-turner, and it has a lot of interesting information about Japan and geishas, but I could have gotten the same information and the same level of insight from a half decent magazine  article on the subject. I expect more from a novel. An understanding of the   human heart (no sign of it here, just a lot of  cliches). Writing that  goes beyond the pedestrian  (I know the author spent many years writing  this  book, but the prose is barely competent). If I  had read this book  without reading any of the  reviews beforehand, I probably would have said  it  was pretty good. An interesting, though  unchallenging, novel.  Entertaining, as long as  you're willing to put up with it's  superficiality.  But the reviews made me expect this to be   one of the  best books I would read this year. Not even close. I guess I learned a  lesson: when you hear too many superlatives, be wary. It's probably hype.	1999-01-08
