US	53047522	R2ZZR5I6UJ49VM	0399150544	694870885	Fox Evil (Walters, Minette)	Books	5	18	19	N	Y	lighter than her other works, but still a great read	Previous reviews have covered the plot outline quite thoroughly, so no need for me to do that.  I just wanted to voice my opinion that I totally enjoyed this book, aside from the fact that I started it as bedtime reading and ended up staying up to 3AM to finish it.  I haven't said that about a mystery in quite a while.  Granted, fans of Walters' earlier books may be disappointed by the lighter tone she uses in &quot;Fox Evil&quot;, but I was completely satisfied with the characters interactions, the plot, the ending, the quality of the writing.  Those who love the &quot;English village&quot; style of mysteries and shun the gruesome will find this a delightfully fresh adaptation....no Miss Marples (not that I don't enjoy her in the right mood).  Only warning is references to animal cruelty, but Walters did not beat you over the head with it and for those who avoid brutality in mysteries, those passages are easy to gloss over.  I was left at the end wondering how the cast of protagonists got on (though there were plenty of hints).  I can't remember how long it has been since I cared enough about one character, let alone an ensemble, to wonder about their futures.  I even wondered about what happens to some of the &quot;bad&quot; chacters.  &quot;Fox Evil&quot; is not &quot;The Sculptress&quot; or &quot;The Scold's Bridle&quot;, but I bet there are many who would enjoy it.	2003-10-20
US	53047522	R2YD2D6OB3OCLX	0963412108	329428462	The Russian Blue Cat	Books	5	14	15	N	N	In loving memory of a brave, kind lady, passionate catlover.	I have already written my review for this keystone book about the Russian Blue cat. It is with great sadness that today I learned that the book's author, Ingeborg Urcia passed away May 28, 2003. I believe that other Russian Blue owners and cat-lovers would like to know that this great lady of responsible cat breeding has left us.<br />I would like also to relate that today I spoke with Ingeborg's husband, Dr. Joe Urcia today for quite some time and received his permission to let others in the cyber community know about his beloved wife of 47 years. Ingeborg was totally dedicated to her two main pursuits, teaching English at Eastern Washington University and cats; specifically Russian Blues and American shorthairs. Her name is very well known to cat fanciers. Ingeborg was passionate that the breeds she raised were healthy, true to type and went to loving, responsible homes. Many owners of her cats will deeply mourn her passing, as I do. She was always there for us to admire photos of her cattery's offspring, or give advice and answer questions. I will never ever forget the help she rendered me when my beloved Russian got very ill. She helped me pull him through the illness. Ingeborg's husband, Joe, has told me that before she died, she directed that her cats be sent to her favorite vet, Dr. Kate Christman, to find loving homes for them. Joe Urcia and Dr. Christman and her staff intend to set up a museum in Ingeborg's name, featuring her vast collection of porcelain cats, a tribute both to her and the felines that she loved so dearly. Joe is also working on publishing her last book, \\"Steps in the Night\\", her own story about surviving the Holocaust. Her book, \\"The Russian Blue Cat\\" stands alone as the seminal handbook for this beautiful breed.<br />Deirdre Devereux	2003-07-12
US	53047522	R3NYCBFZSHB9LE	0060088133	405804003	The Other Diabetes: Living And Eating Well With Type 2 Diabetes	Books	5	68	68	N	Y	Out of all the diabetes books, get this one!	I usually don't write a review for books that have been well-reviewed by others. But there are so many different diabetes advice books available, and, like one of the previous reviewers, I have wasted money on several of them. So I wanted to add my voice in praise of this book. Backing her information with clearly explained scientific evidence, Ms. Hiser debunks many of the myths about type II (the \\"other\\", i.e. not juvenile) diabetes, particularly about food. Ms. Hiser's book has the clearest information about the insulin resistance, which is, in fact, what most early type II diabetics or pre, or borderline diabetics have. In other words, we make the insulin, but our cells do not respond to it as efficiently as they should. The key thing to know here is that if you, the patient, do not take control NOW to reduce that insulin resistance, eventually, you will burn out the cells in your pancreas that make insulin and then there really is no turning back. This is why it has been so emphasized that in its early stages, the outcome of type II diabetes is virtually completely in the hands of the patient, not the medical profession. Ms. Hiser puts together all the best scientific data specific to type II diabetes (which is quite different from type I, and therefore leads to considerable confusion), principally the \\"Mediterranean diet\\". She explains that counting carbohydrate and fat grams per se is not effective; it is the TYPE of fat and carbohydrate you eat that affects all the factors type II diabetics need to control (LDL, HDL and triglycerides). In fact, if you eat a lowfat diet consisting of refined (fiber-depleted) carbohydrates and hydrogenated (artificially saturated) fats, you are doing yourself more harm than good. Hydrogenated fats, aside from being \\"bad\\"/saturated fats, also contain trans fats, which are the absolute worst fats you could be putting into your body, in terms of diabetes, heart disease and cancer risks. So the diabetic diet advice books I have read whose menus consist of processed, fast and junk foods are not only worthless, they are dangerous.<br />Another positive about Ms. Hiser's book is that she emphasizes that her menu plans and recipes are only a starting off point. If the patient does not adapt the eating style to suit their preferences, then the \\"diet\\" is useless because the diet is meant to be a way of life from this point onward, not something you struggle to stick to for a few weeks and then go back to your old way of eating. Ms. Hiser also tackles a subject that most books gloss over or give outright misinformation about - including moderate alcohol in your diet. Contrary to other books that have the patient count a serving of alcohol as a fat exchange, Ms. Hiser presents the studies that show that one or two glasses or wine per day may actually reduce insulin resistance. Of course, more alcohol has the opposite effect, raising blood pressure, triglycerides and worsening the cholesterol profile. Exercise plays a role as important as diet in controlling type II diabetes, which Ms. Hiser emphasizes, but since that should go without saying, I won't address that in this review. So much media attention has been given to the \\"Mediterranean diet\\", I won't go into much detail, only to say, as Ms. Hiser does, the bottom line is to eat the \\"right\\" fats (monounsaturated) like olive and canola oils, to increase fiber and to control calories (by controlling portion sizes), especially if you need to lose weight, as most type II diabetics need to do. With this in mind, it is easy to adapt MANY of your favorite recipes (as I have done) very successfully, substituting canola oil and flaxseed meal for butter, and lowfat buttermilk or fat-free yogurt for milk and cream, for instance. The biggest challenge to those who, due to time constraints, currently eat mostly fast and processed food is the commitment to preparing your own food and snacks (her sample menus include three meals and two snacks a day). Ms. Hisermakes this as easy as possible by suggesting canned or frozen vegetables and fruits as substitutes for preparing absolutely everything from scratch. One of the key factors I personally have found in keeping eating satisfaction high is to use flavor boosters such as garlic, herbs or chilies in the recipes. And one bit of information I have not seen anywhere else is that one-quarter teaspoon of cinnamon has been reported as increasing insulin sensitivity! Such a painless experiment to try on your coffee or in your cereal! (Much easier for me than adapting to flaxseed....although I have, with the help of ground flaxseed meal). I have been on Ms. Hiser's plan for two weeks and have lost several pounds without suffering. I especially enjoy the herbed yogurt cheese and yogurt cream recipes with dinner or dessert (cinnamon baked apple with vanilla yogurt cream - yum!) . More importantly, the peripheral neuropathy pains in my hands and feet have much lessened. I await the results of my blood tests in four more weeks, but I feel sure that my glycosylated hemoglobin and cholesterol profile will be improved. Bravo and many thanks, Ms. Hiser for helping me more than any other source since I found out that I was borderline or pre-diabetic.makes this as easy as possible by suggesting canned or frozen vegetables and fruits as substitutes for preparing absolutely everything from scratch. One of the key factors I personally have found in keeping eating satisfaction high is to use flavor boosters such as garlic, herbs or chilies in the recipes. And one bit of information I have not seen anywhere else is that one-quarter teaspoon of cinnamon has been reported as increasing insulin sensitivity! Such a painless experiment to try on your coffee or in your cereal! (Much easier for me than adapting to flaxseed....although I have, with the help of ground flaxseed meal). I have been on Ms. Hiser's plan for two weeks and have lost several pounds without suffering. I especially enjoy the herbed yogurt cheese and yogurt cream recipes with dinner or dessert (cinnamon baked apple with vanilla yogurt cream - yum!) . More importantly, the peripheral neuropathy pains in my hands and feet have much lessened. I await the results of my blood tests in four more weeks, but I feel sure that my glycosylated hemoglobin and cholesterol profile will be improved. Bravo and many thanks, Ms. Hiser for helping me more than any other source since I found out that I was borderline or pre-diabetic.	2002-06-19
US	53047522	R3QLPLHDFOCTO5	158040037X	988892742	The Diabetes Food and Nutrition Bible : A Complete Guide to Planning, Shopping, Cooking, and Eating	Books	4	149	154	N	Y	most helpful book so far	Now that the condition called &quot;pre-diabetic&quot; has been recognized by the medical profession, even more people need information on meals, recipes and menu planning to aid in blood glucose control.  I have just recently been diagnosed as pre- or &quot;borderline&quot; diabetic.  Pre-diabetes and diabetes are medical conditions that are vastly under the control of the patient.  We have all heard that losing weight and increasing exercise are vital to controlling diabetes.  At this point I have read about six books on diabetes and this one is by far the best.  Some of the books were a complete waste of money, in my opinion;  for example, &quot;Tell Me What to Eat if I Have Diabetes&quot; was for processed and fast food junkies.  All of the books present information on goals for blood glucose levels, what are carbohydrates, etc.  But for me, I needed help with menu planning, balancing proteins, carbos, fats, calories, increasing fiber, etc.<br />&quot;The Diabetes Bible&quot; does have workable recipes - the ones I have made were very tasty.  The biggest shock comes when you actually measure the serving sizes specified.  A 4-ounce apple did not exist in my grocery store - they were all 8 ounces.  So, if you follow their menu plans (I used the 1,200 to 1,400 calorie plan), you can eat only half that apple.  It is amazing how small a half-cup portion of cooked vegetables is or two ounces of lean protein is an incredibly tiny piece (I once virtuously ate a small fish fillet, only to find out that I had consumed &quot;four exchanges&quot;).  And one cup of milk is only a few swallows.<br />My biggest complaint about the book is that many menus rely on reduced fat cheeses, &quot;lite&quot; sour cream and margarine, although they do admit you can used the real thing, but (obviously) eat even less of it.<br />It is no lie to say that controlling pre-diabetes or diabetes is a heck of a lot of work.  Given the risks of not controlling these conditions - eye damage, peripheral neuropathy, risk of heart attack and stroke - patient motivation to lose weight, increase exercise, control blood pressure and blood glucose, reduce cholesterol, etc. should be high, but it certainly is no day at the beach.  The &quot;Diabetes Bible&quot; at least gave me some place to start.peripheral neuropathy, risk of heart attack and stroke - patient motivation to lose weight, increase exercise, control blood pressure and blood glucose, reduce cholesterol, etc. should be high, but it certainly is no day at the beach.  The &quot;Diabetes Bible&quot; at least gave me some place to start.	2002-06-09
US	53047522	RVJDIRE208CX7	1564144267	168075843	Tell Me What to Eat If I Have Diabetes: Nutrition You Can Live With	Books	1	99	111	N	Y	&quot;Mouth-watering recipes&quot;?!	If your idea of &quot;mouth-watering recipes that you can't live without&quot; includes ingredients like 1/3 lowfat American processed cheese, lowfat or fat-free cream cheese and sour cream, lowfat frozen french fries, and powdered Ranch dip mix, then I guess this is the diabetic-diet advice book for you.  As for me, eating lowfat American cheese is akin to gnawing on a PVC pipe - pure chemicals. And eating fat-free cream cheese is like eating your art gum eraser.  I can live without such recipes.  Essentially, this book is for people who are used to quickie recipes and fast food chains and want to still eat that way but try to control their blood glucose levels.  The popularity of the Joanna Lund style of &quot;cooking&quot; certainly suggests that there are many who cannot give up such things as chocolate cream pie and are willing to accept the substitutes of fat-free, sugar-free chocolate pudding mix pie topped with Lite Cool Whip.  For those who fall into this group, this book has a number of useful tables giving the calories, carbohydrates, fat, protein and salt values for prepackaged common brand name cereals, frozen desserts, cookies, pasta sauces, salad dressings, frozen entrees and frozen pizza.  The same breakdowns are also provided for restaurant chain food, such as Denny's, Jack-in-the-Box, Wendy's, MacDonald's, Burger King, Subway, Kentucky Fried Chicken and donut shops. However, if one doesn't eat this way, has type II diabetes and wants to figure out a glucose-controlling diet, this book is worthless. I think this is important to point out because I purchased this book based on the two glowing reviews and am now out the purchase price.  Indeed, the book does try to take a postive attitude in telling diabetes what they CAN eat, but the general information can be gotten in much more detail in other books.  I would make a recommendation, but I am in the early stages of this research and have not yet found a diabetic diet advice book that I would whole-heartedly recommend for those who avoid processed food.  So far, the best has been &quot;The Diabetes Food and Nutrition Bible&quot; which did offer some useful recipes, but even that book has menu plans that include frozen entrees, canned fruit cocktail, frozen waffles and margarine.artedly recommend for those who avoid processed food.  So far, the best has been &quot;The Diabetes Food and Nutrition Bible&quot; which did offer some useful recipes, but even that book has menu plans that include frozen entrees, canned fruit cocktail, frozen waffles and margarine.	2002-05-24
US	53047522	RHC8RW8WFITWZ	0684872528	986691074	Gluten-Free Baking: More Than 125 Recipes for Delectable Sweet and Savory Baked Goods, Including Cakes, Pies, Quick Breads, Muffins, Cookies, and Other Delights	Books	4	28	41	N	Y	Great resource for sweet gluten-free goodies.	First, to establish my credentials, I was diagnosed with celiac sprue four years ago at the age of 46, after over 6 years of being told by doctors that I had &quot;irritable bowel disease&quot; and/or that nothing was wrong with me an antidepressant couldn't fix. (Never let any physician tell you that just because you are an adult and are apparently &quot;well-nourished&quot; that it is impossible for you to have celiac - make them give you the blood test!) So I am well acquainted with coping (or trying to) with a strict GF diet. I have to admit that I have not yet tested any of the recipes in Ms. Reilly's &quot;Gluten-Free Baking&quot; because, being an adult celiac, I hoped the book would have more savory recipes, not cakes, cookies, etc.  Still, especially for those who are trying to make gluten-challenged children happy, &quot;Gluten-Free Baking&quot; is a wonderful resource.  GF cooking, especially baking without gluten, is a HUGE challenge and Ms. Reilly certainly has the cooking credentials to tackle it, spurred on by finding out that her son had celiac disease.  Gluten is the foundation for crusty, light, fine-textured bread, it is what makes dough flexible, able to capture gases during baking and give great volume to the baked item.  Without gluten, what you frequently have is a dense, gummy, heavy, dry, crumbly, unappealing, very poor substitute.  GF baking is much more successful in recipes where a dense texture is aimed for, e.g. biscotti (dry), corn pudding and pudding cake recipes (moist), fruit quick breads, fruit muffin recipes.  In these types of recipes, GF &quot;flour&quot; mixture can be substituted for regular wheat flour fairly successfully. This being the case, it makes sense that GF cookbooks tend to focus on breakfast pastries and desserts. Even so, GF baking is much more complex than regular baking because there are so many more ingredients needed to try to achieve the gluten-effect without gluten.  &quot;Gluten Free Baking&quot; has many, many recipes for unusual GF treats such as black forest cake, Boston cream pie, cream puffs, cherry strudel, filo pastries, chocolate praline torte, to name a few.  If I ever need to make a GF dessert or batch of cookies, I will certainly turn to Ms. Reilly.  For celiac/gluten-sensitive-copers who are looking for savory dishes, I have found &quot;One Potato, Two Potato&quot; to be the most helpful and inspiring cookbook I have found yet.  More and more people are being diagnosed with gluten-intolerance in some form or another, and it is heartwarming to know there are trained cooks out there trying to make a GF diet more bearable.many recipes for unusual GF treats such as black forest cake, Boston cream pie, cream puffs, cherry strudel, filo pastries, chocolate praline torte, to name a few.  If I ever need to make a GF dessert or batch of cookies, I will certainly turn to Ms. Reilly.  For celiac/gluten-sensitive-copers who are looking for savory dishes, I have found &quot;One Potato, Two Potato&quot; to be the most helpful and inspiring cookbook I have found yet.  More and more people are being diagnosed with gluten-intolerance in some form or another, and it is heartwarming to know there are trained cooks out there trying to make a GF diet more bearable.	2002-03-03
US	53047522	R2ULBTYK6HKA0W	0963412108	329428462	The Russian Blue Cat	Books	5	19	20	N	N	the magic goes on	Three years after I wrote my first review of \\"The Russian Blue Cat\\" I can report that my \\"Ivar of Katzenberg\\" (aka Bubba) remains one of the most communicative, graceful, expressive, loving, beautiful cats I have ever seen.  I have received a number of emails from people who read my previous review and have put them in touch with the Russian Blue internet network, which is quite surprisingly vast.  If one has the time, one can view endless photos of the object of besotted owners' devotion.  And, if you have a Russian Blue, you seem to find the time and the photos make you smile.  I still send copies of all Bubba's photos to his breeder, the author of \\"The Russian Blue Cat\\", and she enjoys them and has kept in touch.  Mrs. Urcia sympathized when I was sad that Bubba had lost his \\"baby\\" face and now has the face of an adult male.  And she helped me get through the terrifying one time when Bubba got very sick with some unknown bug.  Thank God, we pulled him through. I would get another Russian from Katzenburg Cattery in a heartbeat, but Bubba's special place in the family as \\"the baby\\" (he will be 7 years old in March)has held me back.  When fate placed a nearly-starved-to-death kitten in my driveway last summer, Bubba had to deal with the fact that he might not be the only baby in the family.  The kitten is rough and tumble now, but Bubba retains his delicacy and maintains his pride of place above the \\"lower orders\\".  If you are considering getting a Russian Blue, know that they require a lot more attention than most other cats.  They seem to have a sensitivity, a delicacy, a need to communicate with their owners that is at the high end of the bell curve in cat behavior.  Also, they are tremendous leapers and love to get to the highest place they can and love to ride on their human's shoulder.  Mrs. Urcia's book, \\"The Russian Blue Cat\\" remains the best book about the breed and her cattery produces some of the loveliest examples of the feline kingdom.	2002-02-15
US	53047522	R1URMZWM5HNLU1	1558210253	472932420	The Food Lover's Garden (Cook's Classic Library)	Books	3	10	27	N	Y	some good information, but out of date	I bought this book because who would not buy a book about which none other than MFK Fisher calls \\"in every sense of the word a modern classic\\"?  I had read Mr. Pelligrini's book \\"The Unpredjudiced Palate\\".  Although I find his very florid writing style a trifle overdone, he does make good points about staying in touch with the earth and our connection to the animals and plants we eat and how they get to the table. It is true we live to a large extent in a cellophane-wrapped, frozen, fast-food world.  \\"A Food Lover's Garden\\" , however, must be read in these days with the knowledge that the book was originally published in 1970.  And in those days, Mr. Pellegrini was obviously unaware that the wonderful fresh vegetables he harvested from his backyard garden, which were so \\"healthy\\" for his family's table, had been dusted, sprayed and marinated in chemical fertilizers and poisons such as diazinon and rotenone.  So, although he does have a few interesting things to say about different vegetables, his straight-furrow planting and growing techniques are out-of-date, to say the least.  In today's ecology-conscious world, we are all aware (or should be) of the effect of these poisons on the environment and on our bodies.  Gardeners still must deal with garden pests, but I much prefer the totally organic, successive planting, intensive planting and interplanting techniques used by Sally Jean Cunningham in her book \\"Great Garden Companions\\".  Her basic theory is to follow Mother Nature's example and create biodiversity in your garden by interplanting several species of vegetable and flower and herb, thereby creating a habitat for friendly garden predators who prey upon the pests.  \\"Never spray!\\", she says.  And as my husband and I are building our raised beds to start our first garden this spring, I look down at the creek below and wonder how much poison from lawn treatments and weed killer has gotten into it - lots, I suspect.  No matter that we have many more \\"weeds\\" than the former inhabitants, to whom Round-Up was something you spread around everywhere, to the point there are still places where you can smell it a year later. \\"A Food Lover's Garden\\" means well - a curiosity read.  But the how-to manual should be \\"Great Garden Companions\\".  It is better to pick off a few bugs from your vegetables than to put all that poison into your land and into your bodies.he former inhabitants, to whom Round-Up was something you spread around everywhere, to the point there are still places where you can smell it a year later. \\"A Food Lover's Garden\\" means well - a curiosity read.  But the how-to manual should be \\"Great Garden Companions\\".  It is better to pick off a few bugs from your vegetables than to put all that poison into your land and into your bodies.	2002-02-09
US	53047522	R1R82PWQFODFOF	0618007148	183743973	One Potato, Two Potato	Books	5	30	35	N	Y	A Must-Have cookbook	I'm not one of those who collect cookbooks, although I do love foodie-reading.  When cooking, I usually rely on a few stand-bys - The Silver Palate cookbooks, for example.  I rarely buy or read specialty (one food, one ethnicity) cookbooks.  But I made an exception for &quot;One Potato, Two Potato&quot;.  Initially drawn in by the fact that I'm of Irish heritage and like my &quot;taties&quot;, I was also attracted to the book because I have celiac sprue, which means I'm allergic to gluten, which means I can't eat wheat, barley, oats, millet, rye, blah, blah blah.  Huge drag.  Consequently, I am always looking for alternative dishes that I CAN eat - and, luckily for me, potatoes are okay.  (I'm also deeply grateful that grapes made the cut, which means I can enjoy wine.  Don't miss beer at all.)  &quot;One Potato, Two Potato&quot; has an astounding number of potato recipes.  Reading the recipes , I raced to put four russets in to bake, to satisfy the craving the recipes and photos induced.  And I loved the authors' writing style, in one recipe admonishing:  &quot;Listen to me on this - do NOT remove the fat from the proscuitto!&quot;  I'll be giving this cookbook as a gift to my foodie and Irish tatie-loving friends.  Great find!	2002-01-11
US	53047522	R3MPRC87NQRTMF	0609607820	232816733	The Gallery of Regrettable Food	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Wish he had included the recipes	I inherited huge piles of recipe books and clippings from my female progenitors and this book makes me wish I had kept them all.  Although my mother could be a marvelous cook, I do remember very strange articles sometimes appearing at dinner.  Corned beef hash with a poached egg on top?  Creamed chipped beef on toast?  (Creamed anything mystified me.)  Eggs a la goldenrod?  Some very toxic tuna fish and noodle casseroles made Friday a day to fear.  And we kids could never figure out how time was saved using &quot;Instant Potato Buds&quot; instead of just boiling potatoes.  Mr. Lileks' book features the photos from some of those cookbooks, along with his caustic commentary.  It is very funny if you have some of those memories of Jello with alien things in it.  I did deduct one star because I think it would have been funnier had he included some of the recipes and cut down on his commentary, which did, at times seem rather redundant and juvenile.  Speaking from experience, I can say that reading the ingredients and cooking instructions can induce shudders just as well as the photos can.  Also, the '50s were not the beginning of strange American food ideas.  Read &quot;Perfection Salad&quot; by Laura Shapiro, a very scholarly, but yet fascinating history of American women and cooking at the turn of the century.  After reading &quot;Perfection Salad&quot;, I finally understood why my grandmother and mother were addicted to smothering food with &quot;white sauce&quot;.  Ugh.	2002-01-11
US	53047522	R1PUJZYLOGOBUS	0375756655	237535005	Perfection Salad: Women and Cooking at the Turn of the Century (Modern Library Food)	Books	5	23	24	N	Y	Fascinating and scholarly read	Foodies and feminists alike should read this book.  As part of the Modern Food Library reprints, chosen by Ruth Reichl (who is known for her good taste and her own laudable literary contributions - &quot;Tender at the Bone&quot; and &quot;Comfort Me with Apples&quot;), &quot;Perfection Salad&quot; describes all the elements present at the turn of the century that combined to forever change the way Americans view food.  Food, its preparation and presentation became a female obsession in an time where the kitchen was really the only arena in which a woman could rule.  The female nutritionists and cooks from that era seemed bent upon exerting control on SOMETHING, and that something turned out to be food - with sometimes terrible consequences.  After reading &quot;Perfection Salad&quot;, I understood the recipes that my grandmother (born in 1898) and my mother after her learned and served.  Don't be frightened by the scholarly look of &quot;Perfection Salad&quot; - there are hilarious nuggets in the text - like color-themed menus (everything green and white, for example), putting everything into gelatin for the sake of &quot;daintiness&quot; (no messy lettuce leaves hanging out of your mouth) and covering absolutely anything and everything with &quot;white sauce&quot;.  For more laughs, peruse &quot;The Gallery of Regrettable Food&quot; by James Lileks in which he has gathered some of the most revolting-looking photos of the consequences of &quot;Perfection Salad&quot;.	2002-01-11
US	53047522	R3VM6RY9XEZW9Z	0942018168	724858351	A Treasury of Knitting Patterns	Books	4	276	280	N	Y	Astounding stitch pattern reference, though photos dated	I wrote a review for Barbara Walker's Second Treasury of Knitting Patterns and would like to add more of my comments about this scholarly knitting trilogy.  Previously, I had commented that only professional knitters really needed to own these books, but I am beginning to rethink that position.  I was attempting to teach myself &quot;linen stitch&quot; which is a simple slip stitch pattern recommended for knitting with chenille to keep it from biasing and &quot;worming&quot; (loops of yarn coming out all over the place).  I attempted to follow the directions in &quot;Knitting with Novelty Yarns&quot;.  After wrestling all evening and failing, I went to bed with a headache.  In the morning it occurred to me that I could look up the pattern in Barbara Walker's Treasuries.  I found it (under a totally different name) and discovered that a crucial &quot;P1&quot; had been left out of the directions!  Probably a typo, but still!  I now have more respect for the Treasuries and for the unbelievable amount of scholarly work and patience that went into compiling all those patterns.  Just the proof-reading alone for accuracy must have taken years!  I think that if you are at an intermediate level and are interested in learning new techniques and stitch patterns, you really should own Walker's Treasuries.  There is nothing available like them - they are the knitter's Encyclopedia.  The only reason I gave four stars instead of five is that, unfortunately, the photographs that accompany the patterns are small, poorly done black-and-white, very difficult to see anything, very dated.  What a shame that the books could not be reprinted with updated photos - but what a job that would be!	2001-12-19
US	53047522	R2SE7DXG4ZT2MK	0873418190	789367695	Terrific Tassels & Fabulous Fringe: Heirloom Accents from Modern Materials	Books	4	31	31	N	Y	the word fringe should not be in the title	This is a very nice book if you are trying to learn about tassels -their history, how to make them, projects, how to use them.  However, other than defining the term &quot;bullion&quot; fringe, if your interest was in learning how to make fringe as well as tassels, you will be out of luck, as was I.  More comments from me are unnecessary because the other review is fair and comprehensive - I just thought other potential buyers should have this point clarified.	2001-11-20
US	53047522	RI4STW8RBFVR4	0942018176	927158668	A Second Treasury of Knitting Patterns	Books	4	19	36	N	Y	professional reference manual	I was influenced to buy Barbara Walker's first and second &quot;Treasury of Knitting Patterns&quot; by the high praise they received in the customer reviews. I am not sorry I bought the books, but I am moved to make these remarks for other potential buyers. These books, while containing a truly astounding number of knitting patterns, should be considered as professional references, and are best be borrowed from the libray if you are a beginner. While it is true that some of the patterns could be worked by a determined beginner, the sheer number of patterns and the complexity of many patterns, in my opinion would overwhelm a beginner. I agree that many beginner knitting patterns are dull, all in stockinette stitch and could be improved with a more interesting textured pattern, but there is no need to own these books unless you are truly a professional. Borrow them from the library for inspiration; ask a more advanced knitter to help you choose some of the simpler patterns and copy those pages only. I gave the books four stars because they are very scholarly encyclopedias of knitting patterns that should not be lost and no professional knitter's library would be complete without them. However, the books ARE dated; the photographs of the swatches are in black and white only and are very small. The black and white photographs do not show the two- or three-color patterns well at all. (See &quot;Knitting with Novelty Yarns&quot; for examples of how modern photographic technique can display knitted swatches.)	2001-08-27
US	53047522	R1S59KSGCEXTVW	1564773574	24734560	Knitting With Novelty Yarns: Exploring Color, Texture and Style	Books	4	29	29	N	Y	Luscious photographs, helpful information	I am the kind of knitter who avoids the conservative - for example, I haven't used sheeps wool to knit with for years (partly also because I am allergic to sheeps wool).  As a knitter I am magnetically drawn to the profusion of &quot;novelty&quot; yarns that have appeared in recent years. Because of the high price of such yarns, I have even experimented with making my own &quot;component&quot; yarns using two or more sale yarns in my stash.  This book is a must for knitters who want to get the best effect using such lovely and unusual yarns.  The photographs of the yarn skeins and stitch swatches are guaranteed to leave you drooling and your fingers itching to pick up your needles.  The text, as written by the two designers who started novelty yarn companies &quot;Prism&quot; and &quot;Trendsetter&quot; (common names to those who haunt yarn stores and finger beautiful, expensive skeins of yarn)is supremely informative.  The first half of the book is given over to explanation of the different fiber types (ANIMAL:  angora, alpaca, cashmere, mohair, sheeps wool; PLANT:  cotton, rayon, linen; PLANT/ANIMAL HYBRID:  silk;  and SYNTHETIC:  acrylic, polyester and nylon). and how the different types of novelty yarn (boucle, brushed, chained and knitted, chenille, eyelash, nub, plied, woven and component) will be best showcased depending on the stitch used.  Swatches of four different types of yarn all knitted using the same stitch (see below) are photographed together, perfectly demonstrating the text.  (The swatches are knitted in stockinette, reverse stockinette, garter, seed or moss stitch, simple slip stitch, tweed checks, linen stitch, half linen stitch, dropped long stitch and dropped cable stitch.)  This, in my opinion, is the major plus of the book, making the cost worthwhile to keep it as a reference on my knitting shelf.  There are also good sections on how the different fibers handle while knitting, what kind of &quot;hand&quot; the knitted fabric will produce, tips on working with unusual yarns, recommendations for needle size to get the effect you want, the fine points of fitting, a good section on making knitted or crocheted edgings, and, as always, the importance (I call it the zen) of swatching. The only reason I gave it four stars instead of five is purely personal taste.  I was disappointed that the sweater examples seemed busy and fussy to me, although some of the shawls/wraps were lovely.  Even so, if you love to knit with novelty yarns, this book belongs in your library.ps on working with unusual yarns, recommendations for needle size to get the effect you want, the fine points of fitting, a good section on making knitted or crocheted edgings, and, as always, the importance (I call it the zen) of swatching. The only reason I gave it four stars instead of five is purely personal taste.  I was disappointed that the sweater examples seemed busy and fussy to me, although some of the shawls/wraps were lovely.  Even so, if you love to knit with novelty yarns, this book belongs in your library.	2001-08-06
US	53047522	RGUI4X4SNCIHB	0399147330	300291221	The Shape of Snakes	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	&quot;REVENGE IS A DISH BEST SAVORED COLD.&quot;	I don't remember at the moment who said that - some scholar can fill me in.  I'm still reeling from the impact of this book.  I would give it 10 stars if I could and I've never said that about another book I've reviewed.  I think it is beside the point to expound on the book's plot - for one thing, other reviewers cover that topic;  for another, to it would be useless, without giving away the plot, to try to put in a review how this book made me feel just about every human emotion there is with stunning clarity - emtions that slammed in so hard, I had to put the book down for a few moments quite a number of times.  I am very surprised, as (somewhat embarrassedly admit) I ordered it on a whim for the simple reason that I had no other tempting thriller to read at the moment.  In fact, heretofore I have felt lukewarm about Minette Walters' previous books, despite their critical acclaim.  I did enjoy the made-for-television adaptions of &quot;The Sculptress&quot;, &quot;The Dark Room&quot; and, to a lesser extent, &quot;The Scold's Bridle&quot;, which made me think I liked the plots, but not the writing.  Well, I retract all that now.  The writing in this book was electrifying.  Yes, it does deal with the darkest aspects human beings possess, as one reviewer mentioned, and if you don't have a strong stomach, be warned and stay away.  In these days of work rage, road rage, racism, hate crimes, etc., it really does seem as if everyone thirsts mightily for revenge for wrongs done them.  One would like to believe oneself could control this thirst for revenge - I did; but I don't anymore and there will be many more moments of reflection for me because of &quot;The Shape of Snakes&quot;.  &quot;An eye for an eye&quot; is an apt quotation, but here is a more intriguing one from the book:  (an old Chinese proverb says) &quot;If you wait long enough by the river, the bodies of your enemies will float by.&quot;  If this book does not make you examine your own conscience, you don't have one.t have one.	2001-07-23
US	53047522	RYM61WXC9Y3Q6	0553801279	337342267	A Traitor to Memory	Books	3	67	68	N	Y	good writing, but VERY long and slow-paced	Those who are hooked on Elizabeth George's characters and closely follow what happens to them will get a lot for their money in this book, although maybe quantity does not always best quality. This time, the spotlight centers on DI Lynley and his new wife, Helen, and his superior, Superintendent Malcolm Webberly and his wife, Frances.  My personal favorite character, Constable Barbara Haverly plays quite a minor role, unfortunately for me.  Other reviews outline the plot, so I won't reiterate it, just say that in my opinion, this book could have done with a bit of editing.  No matter how outstanding the writing (and Ms. George is an outstanding writer), that in itself cannot hide the fact that the plot is draggy and repetitious.  I had to force myself to continue around page 483, although I did find it worth it to get to the end, page 719.  Also, unlike her earlier books, a sentence here or there seemed a bit awkward or self-concious.  If you are new to the Elizabeth George detective series, I wish you the joy of finding a mine of truly superb mystery stories, with all the finest examples of plotting and characterization and supense.  However, I would suggest first reading &quot;Playing for Ashes&quot; or &quot;In the Presence of the Enemy&quot;.  In my opinion, these are much more finely honed examples of her craft.	2001-07-03
US	53047522	R3OJAQY5H1W1NV	1564773310	285260232	Knitted Shawls, Stoles, and Scarves "Print on Demand Edition"	Books	4	74	75	N	Y	Emphasis on challenging techniques.	This is a book for knitters who want short projects that teach new and challenging techniques without the added problems of how to make the garment fit.  The following techniques are showcased: sideways knitting and shaping, diagonal knitting, textured squares, slip stitch pattern, cables, short rows, lace, garter stitch squares, interlocking diamonds, entrelac and intarsia. The major plus of the book is that before each pattern, the technique to be used is discussed in some detail, boosting the knitter's understanding before attempting to follow the directions.  In most of the patterns, the knitter can chose between making a scarf or making a stole or shawl (which would obviously take more time).  Line-by-line directions are given, as well as a line drawing of the finished piece.  Charts are provided for the more difficult techniques, i.e. textured squares, cables, lace and intarsia.  Colored diagrams are provided for the garter stitch squares, the interlocking diamonds and the entrelac.  If you are knitter looking for short projects to teach yourself a new technique, this book may be just what you are looking for.  For myself, I personally was not interested in making any of the projects because the finished items didn't appeal to me. Cheryl Oberle's &quot;Folk Shawls&quot; was much more my cup of tea.  But the knitting world is huge and growing and there is room for all.	2001-04-10
US	53047522	R27HJ5W2USCO6Z	0962464864	396789944	Chicken Tractor: The Permaculture Guide to Happy Hens and Healthy Soil	Books	3	139	150	N	N	good ideas, some flaws	I will add my voice to the other reviewers because there seems to be a wide swing in opinion and maybe my thoughts will help others to decide whether or not to get this book.  First of all, I know absolutely nothing about chicken-raising...starting from &quot;scratch&quot;, as it were.  I think the most serious flaw in &quot;Chicken Tractor&quot; is that the author barely mentions how to set up for laying hens and concentrates mainly on raising broilers and fryers;  yet he always refers to slaughtering the chickens as &quot;processing&quot;, a euphemism that is confusing at best.  He refers to &quot;processing plants&quot;, i.e. places that you take your live chickens and return to pick up &quot;dressed&quot;, frozen chickens, but says that using this method is costly.  He mentions home-slaughtering with the briefest of references to machines with horrifying names like &quot;killing cone, thermostatically-controlled scalding vat and table-top plucking machine&quot;, but only says the machines are expensive and then leaves the reader totally in the dark (perhaps mercifully).  I agree with the other reviewers that the author rambles and repeats himself endlessly, although when I realized that he would present the same information twice in a row, I just skipped the second go-round.  I also agree that the cartoons are not very helpful in figuring out how you actually go about building the items needed.  His instructions on building the chicken tractor could be followed, with some difficulty.  But anyone trying to figure out how to build the perches and egg-laying boxes would have an almost impossible time trying to find that in this book. Also, he does a lot of cost calculations that date the book and are only minimally helpful. You will have no idea how to raise chicks or how to determine which rooster will be less noisy from reading this book.  I gleaned only a fuzzy idea of how to protect my flock from predators or dogs.<br />The book's strengths lie in the explanation (albeit stated MANY times over) of the bio-ecological circle (he calls it &quot;stacking) a small farmer strives for  between the chicken manure enriching the soil, the soil producing more vegetables, scraps of which in turn feed the chickens, and so on.  Another strength of the book is the list of suppliers and resources.  The list of chicken breeds is quite long, but would have benefitted by adding more information about each variety.  Bottomline, I think the book has some worthwhile information, but I definitely agree with the other reviewers who say that you will need other books in order to understand how to optimally raise chickens on a small farm.  It might be better to start with another book.on (albeit stated MANY times over) of the bio-ecological circle (he calls it &quot;stacking) a small farmer strives for  between the chicken manure enriching the soil, the soil producing more vegetables, scraps of which in turn feed the chickens, and so on.  Another strength of the book is the list of suppliers and resources.  The list of chicken breeds is quite long, but would have benefitted by adding more information about each variety.  Bottomline, I think the book has some worthwhile information, but I definitely agree with the other reviewers who say that you will need other books in order to understand how to optimally raise chickens on a small farm.  It might be better to start with another book.	2001-04-09
US	53047522	R28LWN36T6FTED	0892722339	473060955	More Maine Sweaters: 30 Original Designs in Wool, Cotton, Silk, and Alpaca	Books	1	11	18	N	N	misinformation and some really ugly sweaters	I bought this book because I am interested in the use of alpaca fiber/yarn in knitting.  Most knitting books mention alpaca yarn only briefly, giving very vague general information.  Alpaca fiber is five times warmer than wool, much lighter and as soft as cashmere.  Even baby fine alpaca yarn is astoundingly strong, not delicate, as the author of this book says.  It has less elasticity than sheep's wool, but has much more luster and much less &quot;prickle&quot;.  Once you knit with a fine alpaca yarn, you will be enchanted and totally hooked, as I was.  Alpaca yarn is available, although rare and somewhat spendy. The demand for alpaca fiber for all types of uses (spinning, weaving, knitting, clothing design) far exceeds the supply, but the northamerican alpaca industry is growing and working hard to make this fabulous fiber more available.  If you are looking for helpful information about knitting with alpaca, this book will not fill the bill.<br />Additionally, the knitting patterns in this book are supposedly classic Maine designs.  If that is so, I feel sorry for the inhabitants of Maine.  Even granting that the book was published some time ago and the patterns dated, I have rarely seen such incredibly fussy and ugly sweaters.  My &quot;favorite&quot; was one with two huge flowers of some type worked over the, um, bosom area.  One sweater and one vest pattern are given for knitting with alpaca yarn.  In spite of the fussy designs, the beautiful drape and luster of the knitted alpaca shines through.  The field is wide open for a knitwear designer to publish information and patterns worthy of this fabulous fiber.	2001-03-30
US	53047522	R1SSVUW6QQ9ZWJ	0786708387	810636083	Exile	Books	4	9	10	N	Y	Garnethill is a hard act to follow.	Mystery fans have been eagerly awaiting the second novel by Denise Mina, whose groundbreaking &quot;Garnethill&quot; won the John Creasey Award for Best First Crime novel and made instant devotees of her so richly fleshed-characters, Mauri, Liam, Leslie and Winnie.  In Garnethill we met Glaswegian (inhabitant of Glascow, Scotland) Maureen O'Donnell, a troubled young woman with a past so horrific and a family so dysfunctional, it is a wonder she survived at all.  Mauri suffered incest at the hands of her own father and is tortured by flashbacks and nightmares of the event.  Her alcoholic harpy of a mother, Winnie, refuses to believe her daughter's memory.  Mauri's two sisters also refuse to believe.  Only Mauri's brother, Liam, a drug-dealer is supportive.  Luckily, Mauri has her best friend, Leslie, to help her get through the days as she struggles to cope and recover from a nervous breakdown caused by the memory of the incest.  Large quantities of scotch whiskey also help dull the pain.<br />The second novel begins six months after the events described in &quot;Garnethill&quot;.  Mauri and Leslie are working together at a shelter for abused women, but their friendship seems to be fading.  Mauri's long-lost father reportedly has returned to Glascow, leaving her no respite from the shadows of her past and she is relying more and more on whiskey to escape.  When one of the shelter's clients turns up dead in London, Mauri throws herself into the search for the reasons for the woman's brutal death.  The chase takes her through the underworld of drug lords and heroin junkies in seedy pubs and the grim poverty of the housing projects (or &quot;schemes&quot;) in London and Glascow.<br />Maureen and her creator, Denise Mina, are firmly entrenched in the pantheon of great women crime writers and their sleuths, particularly carving a place in the &quot;hard-boiled&quot; genre, previously the province of male mystery authors only.  Once you have met these characters, you never forget them and are eager to follow any exploit.  However, I have to say that I thought &quot;Exile&quot; was less centered, less smooth, less mesmerizing than &quot;Garnethill&quot;.  For one thing, Mauri's Medea-like mother, Winnie, has only a few walk-ons - and I found her one of the most gripping characters.  The motivation for Mauri's one-woman descent into the drug hell seemed somewhat contrived.  Mauri herself swings from moods of wanting to have a normal life being happy and settled to more and more frequent heavy drinking bouts - these swings are certainly believeable within the context of her character, but make for a much less centered book.  One never meets up with the elusive father who caused much of the problem, though his presence is used as a motive and a goad throughout the book.  Still, these are minor quibbles.  The writing is superb and one rarely reads an author that can so put the reader so three-dimensionally into the landscape and the lives her characters inhabit.  If Garnethill had not been so overwhelmingly compelling, I'm sure &quot;Exile&quot; would still make me put Denise Mina on my notify-me-at-once-when-a-new-book-comes-out list and I await the next novel to find out which pathways Mauri takes.never forget them and are eager to follow any exploit.  However, I have to say that I thought &quot;Exile&quot; was less centered, less smooth, less mesmerizing than &quot;Garnethill&quot;.  For one thing, Mauri's Medea-like mother, Winnie, has only a few walk-ons - and I found her one of the most gripping characters.  The motivation for Mauri's one-woman descent into the drug hell seemed somewhat contrived.  Mauri herself swings from moods of wanting to have a normal life being happy and settled to more and more frequent heavy drinking bouts - these swings are certainly believeable within the context of her character, but make for a much less centered book.  One never meets up with the elusive father who caused much of the problem, though his presence is used as a motive and a goad throughout the book.  Still, these are minor quibbles.  The writing is superb and one rarely reads an author that can so put the reader so three-dimensionally into the landscape and the lives her characters inhabit.  If Garnethill had not been so overwhelmingly compelling, I'm sure &quot;Exile&quot; would still make me put Denise Mina on my notify-me-at-once-when-a-new-book-comes-out list and I await the next novel to find out which pathways Mauri takes.	2001-02-07
US	53047522	R1ZOQUXNYERV1N	0786865784	257317050	Angel Whiskers: Reflections on Loving and Losing a Feline Companion	Books	4	31	32	N	Y	Good basic reference for healing the pain of pet loss.	This book contains a lovely collection of written poems and memorials to beloved cats.  The Cleveland Amory tale of the passing of Polar Bear is classic and guaranteed to make you weep. Also contained herein is the famous &quot;Rainbow Bridge&quot; poem by Anonymous.  But new to me was the answering poem &quot;Request from Rainbow Bridge&quot; by Constance Jenkins, which I had not seen before and which I found to be one of the best pieces in the book.  There is a small excerpt from the wonderful little book &quot;Charles: the story of a friendship&quot; by Michael Joseph which is sadly out of print, but well worth the effort of trying to track down a copy.  The written tributes were most moving and offer some warmth from the freezing, howling winds of grief at the loss of a beloved &quot;fur-person&quot;.  The vintage photographs presented with the poems and stories were also surprisingly touching.  Looking at them, the love humans had and have for their pets is a tangible and powerful emotion captured on film.  I found this book to be much more of a balm for sorrow than &quot;The Heart that is Loved Never Forgets&quot;.  It is a good companion book to Philip Schreibman's &quot;My Cat Saved my Life&quot; and would make an extremely thoughtful gift for someone who is mourning their cat.	2001-01-30
US	53047522	R2NS858L5M1CC6	0891908889	483020941	A Judgement in Stone	Books	1	14	27	N	Y	Wonderful writing, terrible edition - buyer beware!	&quot;Judgement In Stone&quot; is one of my all-time favorite books.  Because of this, I decided I needed a hardback copy and ordered the Amereon House vintage reprint.  In principle, and addressing the publisher's message to the reader at the front of this edition, it is surely praiseworthy to keep older titles available to new readers.  However, this edition has MANY serious flaws.  On many pages the print is skewed.  There are many typos.  The flaws are so many and so noticeable, it detracts from the superb story.  &quot;Judgment in Stone&quot; is a true classic of the genre and one of Ruth Rendell's most stellar pieces, in my opinion.  However, if you can get another edition, I would avoid this one.	2001-01-16
US	53047522	R3ETQBJH8W4VNY	0312017820	556653069	Knitting With Cotton	Books	3	30	30	N	N	Some patterns dated, but some interesting info.	Considering how little information about knitting with cotton is available, this out-of-print book has specific advice I haven't been able to find elsewhere.  The price is worth the page-and-a-half introduction explaining the technical differences you need to know when knitting with cotton rather than wool or other more elastic fibers.  The difference between mercerized and non-mercerized cotton is given, as well as explanation of spinning the individual plies.  The introduction explains which type of stitches do not work well in cotton and suggests other stitches that are enhanced by working in cotton;  i.e. textural stitches without too much twisting will work up crisper and more defined in cotton than in softer, hairier wool yarn.  It explains that in order to achieve the best effect, cotton requires an even, regular stitch, usually on smaller needles using firm tension, with a &quot;complete ban&quot; on bad habits such as putting the work down halfway through a row or pushing the needles through the knitting.  Also, certain design details must be taken into account when knitting with cotton, incorporating the facts that cotton garments are heavier and the lack of elasticity can cause bagginess in waistbands and ribbing. Keeping all these details in mind, however, cotton yarn can be substituted for other types of yarn, always keeping in mind the cardinal rule of gauge - in following a pattern, the gauge stipulated must be achieved or the garment will not fit. Although most of the women's patterns (with an exception or two) did not interest me, there were some classic designs for both men and women and a couple of children's sweaters.  The 27 patterns are presented on models, in line drawings of pattern pieces and with line-by-line directions.  Color charting is given when required.  The technique section addresses the special requirements for cotton knitting using fairisle, stranding, weaving and intarsia methods, all more difficult and unforgiving of mistakes in cotton than in wool. I appreciated this book because I am allergic to wool and live in a climate that does not require wool clothing very often.  Given the number of beautiful colors of cotton yarns available (and I have noticed better quality cotton yarns, with sturdier plies), it is very nice to glean some information about how to knit successfully in cotton.n cotton than in wool. I appreciated this book because I am allergic to wool and live in a climate that does not require wool clothing very often.  Given the number of beautiful colors of cotton yarns available (and I have noticed better quality cotton yarns, with sturdier plies), it is very nice to glean some information about how to knit successfully in cotton.	2001-01-15
US	53047522	R1J4KWZIHP8CEV	081205816X	619291480	Cotton Knitting: Over 30 Exclusive Patterns from Top Designers	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Some intriguing sweater constructions.	I obtained this out-of-print book based on the one Amazon.com customer review.  If you are one of those knitters who lives in a temperate climate, such that wool sweaters are too heavy for most days, I would definitely try to find an inexpensive copy of this book.  The thing I liked the best about the book is that there are two or three VERY unusually constructed sweaters, including one that I loved, knit all in ONE piece, which included front, back and cap sleeves - all that's left to do after knitting is to sew up the side seams.  What I found disappointing about the book was the lack of specifics about how cotton knitting differs from wool knitting.  Wool is a favorite choice for knitters because, of course, wool yarn has that natural elastic quality, something that cotton yarn has less of, though, as a natural fiber, it still has some elasticity.  There is also the question about testing swatches for shrinkage, color-fastness, blocking, washing and caring for cotton knits about which the book didn't go into much detail - also disappointing.  Basically, the book is a gallery of sweater designs with patterns, line-by-line knitting directions, line drawings and color charts provided.  The sweaters are photographed on professional models.  I personally found the colors used and knit-in designs rather too bright and flashy, but that is easily changed to suit personal taste.  The close-up photos of the patterned swatches are very good and will be a help to the knitter.  Although the book doesn't say it, cotton knitting, though challenging, can be quite lovely in some designs.  Some lace patterns knit up quite well in cotton, although I have found that cotton yarn does not hold up too well in very intricate twisted stitches - it tends to fray and look battered right away.  I also wish the book had explained the differences between cotton yarns, mercerized vs. non-mercerized, for example.  However, given the fact that there are few books available for cotton knitters, I think this book is well worth your time and attention.think this book is well worth your time and attention.	2001-01-02
US	53047522	R1943TRU2NOCPF	0670400346	454202584	I Remember Nothing More	Books	1	2	3	N	N	Take the title literally.	Despite the best of intentions, and despite the horrifying experiences the author endured, in my opinion this book fails to add anything substantial to the body of Holocaust literature. If the author wrote &quot;I don't remember&quot; once, she wrote it a hundred times.  Most events are fragmentary, confused or curtailed with &quot;I don't remember...&quot; The author herself apologizes for the &quot;chaotic&quot; telling of events.  One of her experiences as a physician that weighs most heavily on her conscience most naturally was being forced to administer lethal doses of morphine to children and the sick, to give them the gift of &quot;going gently into that dark night&quot;, rather than being shot or worse by the Nazis. In another instance she was forced to euthanize a Jewish woman in hiding who had lost her mind and was jeopardizing the safety of the other Jews in hiding with her and the courageous Gentiles who were hiding them, by running in the streets and screaming in Yiddish. Even this story she does not tell - &quot;I don't want to write any more.  Not a sentence more. About anything.&quot;  Well, what's the point of writing a memoir?  There are many other, more detailed accounts of similar experiences in the literature.<br />While she was also a self-described &quot;courier girl&quot; for the ZOB (acronym for the Jewish Fighting Organization,  in Polish), the Jewish Resisitance fighters whose stories she tells have written accounts of their own about the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising which are much more complete;  some other accounts were written by the actual leaders of the ZOB (Marek Edelman's &quot;The Ghetto Fights&quot; is an example).  The main point the author seems to be trying to make is that the Jewish Resistance Movement went on with its activities after the &quot;official&quot; end of the Uprising, that is, after the total destruction of the Warsaw Ghetto by burning lead by Nazi General Jurgen Stroop (who thankfully was caught and hanged in 1952).  Though it is true that the few surviving Jewish resistance fighters were transported to the partisan strongholds in the forests surrounding Warsaw, almost all perished in the Uprising, either by Nazi destruction or by their own hand.  The few who survived were not given any assistance by Allied powers, nor by most of the Polish Resistance Home Army;  in fact, they had to be removed from the forests and hidden in Aryan Warsaw in order to prevent their execution by anti-semitic partisan Polish &quot;patriots&quot;.  One of the most shameful tales is the fact that though hundreds of thousands of United States dollars were raised for the Jewish Resistance fighters by Jewish organizations in America, the funds were funneled through the Polish Home Army and less than half the funds actually ended up in the hands of the Jewish Resistance.  Read Dan Kurzman's &quot;The Bravest Battle&quot; for an excellent compilation of the known facts of the Uprising.<br />I wish no disrespect to the author, but she herself repeats many times that she is &quot;old and sick&quot; and trying to unburden herself of her story before &quot;it is too late&quot;.  I'm sure listening to her remininiscences in person would have been valuable, no matter how fragmentary her memory; rather like listening with love to your elderly parent or grandparent's stories.  However, it makes for a frustrating read.hough it is true that the few surviving Jewish resistance fighters were transported to the partisan strongholds in the forests surrounding Warsaw, almost all perished in the Uprising, either by Nazi destruction or by their own hand.  The few who survived were not given any assistance by Allied powers, nor by most of the Polish Resistance Home Army;  in fact, they had to be removed from the forests and hidden in Aryan Warsaw in order to prevent their execution by anti-semitic partisan Polish &quot;patriots&quot;.  One of the most shameful tales is the fact that though hundreds of thousands of United States dollars were raised for the Jewish Resistance fighters by Jewish organizations in America, the funds were funneled through the Polish Home Army and less than half the funds actually ended up in the hands of the Jewish Resistance.  Read Dan Kurzman's &quot;The Bravest Battle&quot; for an excellent compilation of the known facts of the Uprising.  <br />I wish no disrespect to the author, but she herself repeats many times that she is &quot;old and sick&quot; and trying to unburden herself of her story before &quot;it is too late&quot;.  I'm sure listening to her remininiscences in person would have been valuable, no matter how fragmentary her memory; rather like listening with love to your elderly parent or grandparent's stories.  However, it makes for a frustrating read.	2000-12-31
US	53047522	R1HFYP8FLEMIUP	1883010594	443667061	Folk Shawls: 25 knitting patterns and tales from around the world (Folk Knitting series)	Books	5	51	52	N	Y	A knitter's delight!	I resisted buying this book for quite a while because I had been disappointed by an earlier purchase of a book about knitted shawls.  I'm SO glad I gave in and ordered it!  This book had what I missed in the other book - descriptive histories of the particular style or origin of shawl traditions from many countries (mentioned in other reviews).  The historical perspective is fascinating and inspires thought about the day-to-day reality of the women who knitted them and the role that shawls and knitting played in women's lives.  The shawl is perhaps one of the oldest of garments, worn by women in all kinds of rites of passage:  as christening blankets, wedding veils, winding sheets, in celebration, in work, in prayer and in mourning.  Surprisingly, while the shawls pictured are faithfully drawn from the traditional style of each country, none of them look dated or dowdy - all are superbly wearable today.  The photographic presentation of the shawls is excellent - modeled by the author in a manner to focus on the shawl itself, its drape, its pattern, its construction.  The shawls range in knitting challenge from beginner to advanced; from simple garter stitch to intricate lace pattern.  The construction variations are fascinating - rectangular, triangular, square, butterfly-shaped, pieced. Each shawl pattern is presented in photograph and line drawing with both line-by-line and charted knitting directions.  It is clear that much research, thought and love went into this book.  Even if you don't wear shawls (&quot;you just haven't met the right shawl&quot;, says the author), this book is a must-have for every true knitter's library.	2000-12-23
US	53047522	R1QDW3POI2ASEK	1561582654	980824143	Designing Knitwear	Books	5	103	107	N	Y	NOT your run-of-the-mill knitting book	I rarely review a book that has several well-written reviews already, but was tempted to add my voice about this book at a time when those who are looking for a good gift for knitters may be abroad in Amazon.com-land.  I also have been a knitter for Lo these many years (about 30) and have perused many knitting books and magazines.  And I have several knitting friends, some real fanatics, some just beginners.  I personally love this book and wholeheartedly agree with some of the other reviewers that it is the most imaginative book about knitting that I have ever come across.  However, a word of caution:  having spent time in the company of other knitters, I know that I am pretty much a maverick, at the far, wild end of the bell curve.  There are a lot of knitters out there, some extremely technically advanced (far more than I) who simply would not know what to do with this book.  So, if your target knitter follows patterns to the letter, even if your target knitter can execute Kaffe Fassett designs, if they are color-inside-the-lines type of knitter, it might be better to give them (as I have done to several of my knitting friends) &quot;The Big Book of Knitting&quot; by Katharina Buss, which, I have found, is mightily appreciated even by those who have an extensive knitting library. However, if your knitter is bored, bored, bored, even by the most intricate classical designs, then &quot;Designing Knitwear&quot; might just light their fire. I agree with the reviewer who said that &quot;Designing Knitwear&quot; is not for beginning knitters.  So, if your knitter is just learning how to knit, purl, do stockinette stitch, it might be better to choose another book, for now at least.  I have to say, though, if you know or are a maverick knitter, you will LOVE &quot;Designing Knitwear&quot;.  One of the patterns is for a white-on-white three-piece shawl that is absolutely stunning and yet so incredibly simple to make.  This is the type of stylish &quot;shawl&quot; that I would have loved to have seen in the collection of shawls in &quot;Shawls and Scarves: the Best of Knitter's Magazine&quot;.  But hey, that's me.  There's room in the world for all knitters, from perfectionist chart-followers to free-form-let's-just-see-what-happens.  Happy knitting!ould have loved to have seen in the collection of shawls in &quot;Shawls and Scarves: the Best of Knitter's Magazine&quot;.  But hey, that's me.  There's room in the world for all knitters, from perfectionist chart-followers to free-form-let's-just-see-what-happens.  Happy knitting!	2000-11-30
US	53047522	RHXO4X437S8CQ	0312262671	167431745	The Walrus on My Table: Touching True Stories of Animal Healing	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	What an inspiring, wonderful book!	Anthony Guglielmo is a licensed masseur - licensed to practice massage therapy on humans, at first.  Then a human client asked him to see her troubled horse who had been abused by a previous owner.  This lead him to &quot;equine massage certification school&quot; and towards this absolutely fascinating collection of tales about his &quot;non-human&quot; clients, which have included a walrus, a penguin, a beluga whale, dolphins, a ferret, a shark, as well as dogs, cats and bunnies.  Animal massage has actually been practiced in some forms for thousands of years - we know horse trainers have used touch/rub downs since the horse was domesticated.  More and more, the power of touch is being recognized as a way to calm, heal and ease pain as well as express love and communicate amongst species.  Pet lovers know this well.  Driven by his desire to help a crippled dolphin, Mr. Guglielmo learns anatomical knowledge as diverse as that between a shark and horse and shares it with the reader.  Photos document some of the amazing stories.  My heart was well and truly warmed and I learned new things that I will always remember.  I hope these stories end once and for all end any debate about whether animals have feelings and whether whether they can communicate them. What a great gift for an animal/pet lover!  Keep swimming with the dolphins, Mr. Guglielmo!	2000-11-18
US	53047522	R289BTL74F26N3	089281702X	273471376	The Heart That Is Loved Never Forgets: Recovering from Loss: When Humans and Animals Lose Their Companions	Books	2	22	24	N	Y	This book is a homeopathic materia medica for animals	I think potential buyers of this book should not be deceived by the title into thinking that it is a guide to healing from pet loss, as I was. The author is a fervent, not to say fanatic, veterinary homeopath. What starts out as personal anecdotes about euthanizing or losing beloved pets turns into anecdotes about rescuing traumatized animals (surely a laudable thing) and healing them with things like Natrum muriaticum (chloride of sodium)and Borax (borate of sodium). As a pet lover myself, I'm the last to point a finger at someone who anthropomorphizes animals, but I do start wondering when animal emotions are supposedly &quot;understood&quot; by a human to such a fine degree - is it really possible to distinguish &quot;rage in general&quot; vs. rage from being left alone&quot; vs. &quot;rage at having the throat touched&quot;, and that each of these different rages can be cured by a different herb? Perhaps it is possible, and since the author believes in long-distance telepathic communication with animals, perhaps she knows something that I don't. The communication I have experienced from animals has truly been deeper than anything I was ever taught could be possible - but I wonder if layering on too much human emotion spoils the purity, the difference of relating to an animal rather than another human. The book makes several good, though not original points; that giving our pets a peaceful end to suffering requires great courage of the heart, that animals do suffer emotional trauma and do grieve the loss of human or other animal companions. The human-animal bond is indeed a very special, very important bond to forge - the capacity to love another outside oneself is paramount to being a good human being. Becoming the &quot;ambassador&quot; for an animal requires commitment, watchfulness and care; what our companion animals give us in return is beyond measure. Had I been interested in learning homeopathic veterinary medicine, I would have purchased this author's other book &quot;Homeopathic First Aid for Animals&quot;. If you are looking for a book to help you deal with grief at losing a beloved (pet of any type, parent, a love), buy &quot;My Cat Saved My Life&quot; by Philip Schreibman. It will help you much more.<br />AFTERWORD: (9/5/01) It is now almost a year since I lost my beloved 17-year-old cat, Hugo. I felt moved to add a few words to what I wrote about this book in 11/00. I want to clarify that I believe with all my being that our companion animals DO indeed understand us when we talk to them and and touch them and can even read our moods. (Read Anthony Gugielmo's book, &quot;The Walrus on My Table&quot;). And I hope with all my heart that telepathic communication between animals and humans and healing with homeopathic remedies occur. But I bought this book based on the title, which is such a comforting statement when you are grieving a loss...&quot;the heart that is loved never forgets&quot;. It would have been the perfect title for the books &quot;Angel Paws&quot; and &quot;Angel Whiskers&quot;, both books that deal with coping with the grief over losing a companion animal better than the above volume. I hold no quarrel with this this book, nor this author's point of view. I just wanted others in my situation to know that better solace for sorrow could be found elsewhere. I have moved on to rescue two other cats since I lost Hugo; a 10-year-old cat whose owner had to enter a nursing home and could not take his cat and a starving kitten from my driveway. I say this not to glorify myself, but to make the point that, no matter how much I love my other feline companions, the hole in my heart left by my bright spirit, Hugo's, absence will never be filled as long as I am alive. I know that I will meet him again, when, as they say, I go over the &quot;Rainbow Bridge&quot; myself. I also want to tell seniors and their relatives/dear ones something very important - the animal shelter community has changed. If you are lonely for an animal companion, but are resisting because you worry about whether you will &quot;be around&quot;...stop hesitating! There are MANY animals out there who would be so happy to share your life, no matter for how long! I never in the world thought I would adopt a 10-year-old cat (I am turning 50 this year); but I did and it was a revelation. Even if one or both of you has only a few years left, don't they deserve to be happy ones?, full of love? There are so many sad animal stories around, but we should realize that things ARE getting better, that some people DO care, and that love can be just around the corner, for today, for tomorrow, for who knows how long? And there will be others to pick up the torch and carry the love forward. God Blesses All Creatures, if one can but see.for an animal companion, but are resisting because you worry about whether you will &quot;be around&quot;...stop hesitating! There are MANY animals out there who would be so happy to share your life, no matter for how long! I never in the world thought I would adopt a 10-year-old cat (I am turning 50 this year); but I did and it was a revelation. Even if one or both of you has only a few years left, don't they deserve to be happy ones?, full of love? There are so many sad animal stories around, but we should realize that things ARE getting better, that some people DO care, and that love can be just around the corner, for today, for tomorrow, for who knows how long? And there will be others to pick up the torch and carry the love forward. God Blesses All Creatures, if one can but see.	2000-11-09
US	53047522	R8EACWLU64LXW	1573225665	266106840	A Cat	Books	1	1	9	N	N	If you know and love cats this book will infuriate you.	This book is out of print/stock and I believe it should remain so forever.  I have read many books about cats and have shared my life and loved many feline companions of the heart.  The customer review board justly does not not favor revealing ending or significant plot developments, but, really, to convince cat-lovers of the absurd &quot;aphorisms&quot; in this book, I need to quote at least one or two of these astounding one-liners: &quot;A cat refuses to be trained&quot;;  &quot;You stroked a cat and heard its purring, but it gazes at you in that tragic way and gives you no credit for trying.&quot; and &quot;When a cat shuts its eye you disappear.&quot; Really, the text make me think the writer had maybe SEEN a cat, but had never lived with one.  In the context of these banal cat myths, the line drawings become irrelevant to someone who really lives with and loves cats.  PLEASE, if you love cats or want to give a gift to a cat lover, don't waste your time and money hunting down an out-of-print copy of this book - you will be more than annoyed, you will, I predict, be extremely irritated.	2000-11-05
US	53047522	R275T3KFHFY9X2	0609607898	424501834	Grasshopper	Books	2	7	8	N	Y	disappointing	I automatically purchase any new Ruth Rendell/Barbara Vine book as soon as it is published in hardcover and look forward eagerly for the next.  So it is sad for me to have to add my voice to the naysayers.  The book made me long for the &quot;old days&quot;, when Rendell published books like &quot;Judgement in Stone&quot;, &quot;The Killing Doll&quot;, to name a few of my alltime favorites.  I found the plot of Grasshopper to be confusing, and, in the end, boring.  Also, I became very annoyed with the protagonist's constant hinting of what had happened, what was going to happen, what would not have happened &quot;had-we-but-known&quot;. And the ending was so pat.  I still do believe the Rendell is one of the best current writers in any genre, and, to give her credit, she has published an average of two books a year for about 30 years without (in my opinion) losing her edge, something you can rarely say about any writer, especially a mystery writer.  An example that comes to mind is the excellent quality of Martha Grimes' early books, compared to the formulaic bores her later books were/are.  I still have hope that Rendell/Vine's next books will be back up to her superlative standard, but I suggest giving this one a miss.	2000-10-24
US	53047522	RU9NAZDAA1ROB	0393041239	796752632	Where Light and Shadow Meet: A Memoir	Books	1	12	21	N	N	total waste of paper	With all due respect to Mrs. Schindler, who certainly has had her share of hardships in her life, this book is really pathetic.  It seems to be a poorly written essay on &quot;Why I should be called a saint&quot;.  (Despite her disclaimer that she does not consider her husband or herself heroes.)  The tone is flat, petty, childish, curiously voiceless.  Other than a string of infantile reminiscences of how she supposedly verbally stood up to the Nazis, her only other point is to try to impress the reader with what a dissolute rakehell her husband was.  The movie &quot;Schindler's List&quot; did NOT portray her husband as a god;  quite the contrary in my opinion. It showed him to be the complex character that he was.  Perhaps her pique stems from the fact that Emilie Schindler's character was almost absent from that movie.  All right, Mrs. Schindler, by list survivor accounts, did indeed help her husband take care of &quot;his Jews&quot;.  But don't waste your time or money on this book.  There are scores of other memoirs and even fiction that are much more enlightening.  Read &quot;The Cap&quot; by Roman Frister, or &quot;The Reader&quot; by Bernhard Schlink. Or read &quot;Schindler's Legacy&quot;, a compilation of first-person &quot;Schindlerjuden&quot; testimonies.	2000-10-19
US	53047522	RL3E99RBNJIAH	0300070578	697486469	Auschwitz and After	Books	5	37	41	N	Y	If you read no other book on the Holocaust, read this one.	The other two reviews are so insightful and accurate, in my opinion, I should have little to add.  Yet, after reading &quot;Auschwitz and  After&quot;, I felt I had to express something of how the book made me  understand and grow.  As a convert to Judaism (born in 1951, I was on the  pathway my whole life, I realize now), I have read many, many  books/memoirs/histories on the Holocaust.  Many of them have been very  moving, indeed, beginning with Anne Frank's Diary, on through to  &quot;Maus&quot;.  Though I acknowledge that these words have been said  before, I still believe that Charlotte Delbo's words put me into that Hell  more than any other survivor's testimony to date.  Delbo's words do more  than say &quot;this happened and that happened&quot;. They are poetry...yet  how can poetry apply to any experience in a death camp?  Surprisingly,  scarily, the poetry transports the reader there more truly than any film,  any historical analysis, even better than any well-written survivor  account.  At first I thought I would not like it;  my sensibilities were  offended that someone would write in poetic format about an experience at a  death camp (&quot;Maus&quot; was different; it was a cartoon, yes, but  drawn by the son of a survivor, not a survivor).  After finishing Delbo's  triology, I feel that her words (not all in poetic form) made me understand  as much as anyone who did not experience a death camp, how it felt, how one  survived, what one endured when one &quot;came back&quot; to the &quot;real  world&quot;.<br />Due to the passage of time, we are losing the remaining  Holocaust survivors.  Hence, Spielberg's and others' efforts to record the  testimony before it is too late.  There has been more attention lately paid  to the children of the survivors' and how their parents' experiences  affected their lives.  Delbo's words transcend the words of one survivor -  she really makes the reader understand what happned to those who &quot;came  back&quot;, how little they had to give, in some cases, to their spouses,  to their children. American culture puts a lot of emphasis on &quot;getting  over, moving on&quot;.  To some extent, I believe this is usually a healthy  thing to try to do;  but some experiences fall outside the realm of being  able to &quot;get over it&quot;.  I would suggest that some experiences are  so traumatic that one cannot &quot;process&quot; them and get over them.  How is forgiveness possible when the entire world is affected as a result?  Some experiences mark a person and maybe a culture permanently, and to deny  or to try to repress this is unhealthy. At the end of their lives now, most  published Holocaust testimonies report that the death camp experience  &quot;never leaves you&quot; - something &quot;survivors&quot; probably  didn't believe when they were first liberated.  The fact that the Holocaust  survivors are becoming fewer and fewer makes Delbo's book all the more  important because it conveys the true horror, the true evil of human  degradation and genocide - and explains why the Holocaust, as well as other  genocides have and will reverberate from generation to generation.  Her  book made me realize that understanding and vigilance, not  &quot;processing&quot; and forgiveness is the answer.little they had to give, in some cases, to their spouses,  to their children. American culture puts a lot of emphasis on &quot;getting  over, moving on&quot;.  To some extent, I believe this is usually a healthy  thing to try to do;  but some experiences fall outside the realm of being  able to &quot;get over it&quot;.  I would suggest that some experiences are  so traumatic that one cannot &quot;process&quot; them and get over them.   How is forgiveness possible when the entire world is affected as a result?   Some experiences mark a person and maybe a culture permanently, and to deny  or to try to repress this is unhealthy. At the end of their lives now, most  published Holocaust testimonies report that the death camp experience  &quot;never leaves you&quot; - something &quot;survivors&quot; probably  didn't believe when they were first liberated.  The fact that the Holocaust  survivors are becoming fewer and fewer makes Delbo's book all the more  important because it conveys the true horror, the true evil of human  degradation and genocide - and explains why the Holocaust, as well as other  genocides have and will reverberate from generation to generation.  Her  book made me realize that understanding and vigilance, not  &quot;processing&quot; and forgiveness is the answer.	2000-08-22
US	53047522	R35OZBXYRL1O5J	0140253378	879673216	In This Dark House: A Memoir	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Many disturbing questions remain.	Why did no reviewer mention one of the most shocking, pivotal moments in this book?  That in 1966, a 17-year-old English girl named Lubetkin, while  visiting a friend in Bavaria, was treated by a German doctor for an  accident to her hand - and because he suspected that she was a Jew, he  chose to inject the tetanus shot into both her nipples (which later  abcessed and broke open)!  In 1966!  Aside from the story of her father's  madness (grief-driven insanity is certainly what his behavior seemed to  be), looms another question - how could this sort of sadistic torture have  been allowed to pass unmentioned by any other observer and to go unpunished  in 1966?  And in 2000?<br />The incident with the Nazi doctor and her  parents seeming indifference to it finally lead the teenaged Ms. Kehoe to  the realization that she had worth as a person and gave her the strength to  break away from her father's &quot;dark house&quot;.  Unearthing the truth  of her father's past buried in literally mountains of lies that comprised  the deliberate, sly &quot;shell game&quot; Berthold Lubetkin inflicted on  his wife and children is a testimony to the driving force of a tortured  child's search for understanding to regain sanity from madness.<br />These  afternoon not quite four years after Dad's death, I appeared before a  rabbinical court in Boston and, having satisfied the three presiding rabbis  that I knew exactly what I was letting myself in for, was formally  pronounced a Jew.&quot;	2000-03-28
US	53047522	R216QYKH3WLVRD	0684833476	312686756	Tessie and Pearlie: A Granddaughter's Story	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	As Bill Withers said, &quot;I loved that old lady.&quot;	Not since Bill Withers' song, &quot;Grandma's Hands&quot; has there been such a touching tribute to a &quot;bubbe&quot;, the Yiddish word for grandmother.  Or, in this lucky case, to BOTH her 90-something  grandmothers.  How I envied her the privilege, courage and perspicacity to  ask these questions before it was too late!  I shared many, many things  with my beloved grandmother, but I wish with all my heart that I had done  what Joy Horowitz did in &quot;Tessie and Pearlie&quot;, to search out and  record the stories of her grandmothers' lives, what made them who they are,  what their lives mean to her own life, to her children's lives.  Joy  Horowitz did, indeed, build an amazing, bittersweet bridge between her  family's past and future and created a truly precious legacy for her own  children and subsequent generations of her family.  Especially when one is  young, it is very often difficult to let go of the irritations and  inconsistencies you see in your parents and grandparents and really  communicate with them.  It is usually in middle age that the sense of one's  mortality overcomes these quibbles and by then, for most, it is too late  for grandparents.  If you are now fortunate enough to have a living  grandmother, seize the moment.  Read this book, put on Bill Withers and cry  and - and then go call her up and ask and ask and listen and listen. Then  write it down for posterity and marvel at the blessing.	2000-03-09
US	53047522	RR5EGGHKE6U7D	0968327303	411833970	My Cat Saved My Life	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	A handbook for the journey towards dealing with loss.	This book is not just about dealing with the loss of a pet.  It is the best book I have ever read (and I have read many) about the process of grieving.  It is true, I just lost a pet;  that is why I bought the book.  In reading it, though, I experienced a profound catharsis that has allowed  me to move forward through the grieving process more quickly and peacefully  than I have ever done before.  Reading this book has helped my heart to  heal, not just from the death of my cat, but from all the losses that I  have experienced, which, as I get older, seem to be cumulative.  While the  book is superficially the tale of a mystical cat whose soul connected with  the author, it is in a much more important way about living in the world,  of which death is a part.  The book is poem about understanding that  conundrum, and I know that I will refer to it again and again.  To anyone  whose heart is sorely grieving, who is stuck in a rut in the mourning  process, I would say:  read this book, it will make you cry and it will  help you heal.  If it were anyone I knew, I would give them this book.  Thank you, Mr. Schreibman.	2000-02-19
US	53047522	RIS1ALDVPK28B	0609602349	289768397	Real Weddings: A Celebration of Personal Style	Books	3	43	49	N	N	&quot;Real&quot; weddings for the fantastically rich.	If you identify with a bride whose SECOND choice for the wedding location was the groom's family's vineyard/estate in Provence (India didn't work out);  for not one, but TWO brides who had the where-with-all to order TWO  gowns (the first one was too froufrou);  for a bride who had to &quot;make  do&quot; with a Vera Wang gown after her fabric was destroyed in a fire,  then this is the wedding book for you.  In contrast to other wedding books,  the text is (morbidly) fascinating;  and there are more diverse brides  represented in this book compared to others.  However, almost without  exception, every bride wore a long white dress and most (no matter what  their age) wore veils.  So, if you are looking for a book on  alternative-type (in other words, real-world) weddings, this book does not  fill the bill.  You need to know, if you have limited funds, that the  SMALLEST guest list was 50 (one wedding);  every other wedding had over 100  guests, some up to 200.  These are  &quot;real weddings&quot;? This is  fantasy land, where parents pay for the mega-expensive wedding, where the  wedding is all about &quot;the dress&quot;, the dream location,  yada-yada-yada.  Great belly laughs for those who are trying to orchestrate  a real-world wedding.	2000-02-19
US	53047522	R3J1FLOVO6W2H0	0786706120	838231813	Garnethill	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Totally deserving Best First Crime Novel	If you love the thrill of discovering a truly awesome new author (in ANY genre), you MUST read this book.  If you love a writing talent that thrills you to chill-bumps, you MUST read this book.  If you can bear the  adrenalin-cold pit-of-the-stomach understanding of what incest survivors  endure, you MUST read this book.  If you want to be scared out-of-your-mind  by one of the most horrifying alchoholic monster-mothers in history, you  MUST read this book (no kidding, this woman gives Medea a run for the  money).  If you want an unforgettable look at raw life in Glasgow, you MUST  read this book. On every level, this book deserved the editorial praise it  garnered and the John Creasey Award.  This isn't a Whodunit;  it becomes  pretty clear who the murderer must be, but the murders are almost  tangential to the tale of Mauri, her life, her family, her friends.  The  story stays and stays and stays on in your head after you finish the book.  The icy shiver of gut-truths runs through this author's prose - adding the  element of curiosity to the great question - when does the next book come  out?	2000-01-07
US	53047522	R2Z372J1UKRTMZ	0964639165	879362574	Shawls and Scarves: The Best of Knitter's Magazine (Best of Knitter's Magazine series)	Books	3	30	43	N	Y	For very intrepid and/or advanced knitters!	Admittedly, I would characterize myself as just-barely-past-beginner knitter, relying more on fabulous yarn than on intricate stitchery to create dazzle.  This is probably why I found the charts' and knitting  directions' complexity terrifying.  In the inspiration department, you will  like these pieces if you are attracted to classic shapes, complex, lacey  designs, as their origin from past Knitter's Magazine would imply. For  myself, I would have liked to see some more avant-garde designs included -  the brief history of the shawl was interesting, but would have been made  more so by including some modern pieces in the gallery.	1999-12-29
US	53047522	R142Z9ZHD1RAAI	0806962038	592097002	Big Book of Knitting	Books	5	119	121	N	Y	A must for knitters, from beginners to professionals!	If you own this book, you'll probably never have to seek counsel at a yarn shop again.  Clear, pictorial, step-by-step directions for all the shaping, finishing, fixing, patterning, edging, facing, hemming, embellishing,  casting on/off, increasing, decreasing techniques one could ever want are  presented impeccably.  The simple, secret tips that would have made your  last piece look professional, that would have turned your last project into  a finished garment instead of a bundle of  front-back-plus-a-sleeve-and-a-half are all here.  How I wish I had had  this book before now.  An amazingly compendious collection of intricate  stitch patterns is included, but don't expect a gallery of sweaters to  copy, that's not the purpose of this book.	1999-12-29
US	53047522	RL7ODEO1QETQD	1556705549	154642286	Leaves in Myth, Magic and Medicine	Books	5	19	19	N	N	A True Work of Art!	Good Lord, this book is absolutely stunning!  What a find!  Getting this book as a holiday gift is indeed a good argument for writing an accurate self-description on one's wish list - I said I loved leaves and I got this  amazing book which I never even knew existed.  The ink autoprints are so  finely detailed, it's hard to believe they are really printed off living  leaves.  Meeting the woman/artist/botanist who so lovingly (obviously) and  painstakingly created these prints would be an honor and truly fascinating.  This is a case of art imitating yet surpassing nature by making you really  SEE and understand its wonder.	1999-12-29
US	53047522	R3OPYSWM1A6MV0	060960547X	119489429	Harm Done (Chief Inspector Wexford)	Books	5	24	29	N	Y	Another masterpiece by Ruth Rendell.	I have been reading Ruth Rendell since I was in high school, 30 years ago.  I thought when I read &quot;Judgement in Stone&quot; then that mystery  writing could not get any better than that.  How wrong I was.  At a rate of  two or three books per year, Ruth Rendell/Barbara Vine has honed her craft  to a point where, I believe, no other mystery writer before or since has  ever achieved such heights of excellence in brilliant prose, high-tension  plotting, fascinating character study, as well as thought-provoking social  commentary.  Her body of work stands as a shining example of a writer's  growth.  I used to think heaven would be a warehouse full of undiscovered  Dorothy Sayers manuscripts.  Now I think heaven would be if Ruth Rendell  goes on writing forever and that one can read her in the after-life.	1999-10-27
