US	53048914	R3I81GYMRQ58W8	0596007124	390771989	Head First Design Patterns: A Brain-Friendly Guide	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Successfully engages the reader	Since design patterns are about ways of organizing code in order to make it easier to understand and to manage, it should not be all that strange that the authors are also intersted in how to organize a book along the same principles.<br /><br />Still I was a bit skeptical.  This is the first book that I have seen in the Head First series. I have seen other books with cute graphics and came away disappointed because I felt I was being talked down to or because I thought the authors were not very knowledgeable.<br /><br />I am happy to report that my fears were not realized.  As the authors make clear in the introduction, they put a lot of work into making this book accessible.  They succeeded immensely.  It is also clear that they know whereof they speak with regard to the material covered.  I have had trouble getting through the dry material on design patterns in other books.  This book was a real eye opener.  I higly recommend it to others who are having trouble understanding patterns.  I can now see what all the fuss has been about and why it is so important for programmers to understand this material.<br /><br />One criticism that I have is the code presented for the composite design pattern.  If you read through it, it will be clear that it is too verbose and it will not work. To rectify this problem I give here in its entirety my version of the MoveNext method for a composite design pattern class, which I successfully tested on my computer.<br /><br /> Public Function MoveNext() As Boolean Implements IEnumerator.MoveNext<br />  Dim iterator As IEnumerator<br /><br />  While True<br /><br />  ' Try to get next item from iterator at top of stack<br />  While Not CType(stck.Peek, IEnumerator).MoveNext<br />  stck.Pop() ' Remove empty iterator from top of stack<br />  If stck.Count = 0 Then ' No more iterators<br />  Return False<br />  End If<br />  End While<br /><br />  iterator = stck.Peek<br />  currentItem = iterator.Current<br /><br />  'If current item is a list then push its iterator onto stack<br />  If enumType.IsInstanceOfType(currentItem) Then ' Next item is a list<br />  stck.Push(CType(currentItem, IEnumerable).GetEnumerator())<br />  Else ' Current item is not a list<br />  Return True<br />  End If<br /><br />  End While ' while True<br /><br />  End Function<br /><br />Along with this book I would recommend reading the Wikipedia article on design patterns at [...]<br />They give a good compact description of the main patterns.rent                'If current item is a list then push its iterator onto stack              If enumType.IsInstanceOfType(currentItem) Then ' Next item is a list                  stck.Push(CType(currentItem, IEnumerable).GetEnumerator())              Else ' Current item is not a list                  Return True              End If            End While ' while True        End Function    Along with this book I would recommend reading the Wikipedia article on design patterns at [...]  They give a good compact description of the main patterns.	2005-04-02
US	53048914	R2FMCD67SUT7LC	0312421435	815137418	No Logo: No Space, No Choice, No Jobs	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Good Starting Point For Wider Discussion	The phenomenon of corporate cultural dominance is of fairly recent origin.  I highly recommend the book for a discussion of this.<br /><br />Naomi Klein presents a good description of how much of a presence multinational corporations have become in our lives.  The material is well organized and very readable and although presented from a specific point of view alternative viewpoints are presented.<br /><br />To me the book raises more questions than it answers, but I do not mean that as a criticism.  The book shows how corporations have moved into every facet of our lives, how their presence has become inescapable.  Some questions raised are: Just how bad is this?  What have we sacrificed in becoming a society of consumers? Why have we allowed it to happen?  Is pop culture the only culture? What is the alternative?<br /><br />The book closes by talking mainly about sweatshops.  This was a little disappointing because in going after this easy target it failed to address the other issues that were presented.  A visit to the author's Web site was also a bit of a letdown because it focuses only on the war in Iraq.	2005-01-19
US	53048914	R3UCJ173UMIE08	9057270420	636222794	Carfree Cities	Books	5	24	24	N	N	A dream with feet	What I like best about this book is that Crawford supplies sufficient detail to convince you that his is no utopian vision. He has carefully thought out all the inticacies.  His plan is doable with current technology. If the devil is in the details then he has exorcised the devil.<br /><br />The first part of the book argues the case for carfee cities. He outlines all the drawbacks to what he calls the autocentric city. He explains the cost in terms of health, economics and sociology. In my case he was preaching to the choir, but this part was still fun to read.<br /><br />The second and main part of the book describes how to achieve his vision.  He emphasizes current technology although some of the uses are innovative, like the use of subways for delivering freight.  Included is an interesting tutorial on containerized shipping, which is a major component of his plan. In reading this I was able to visualize life in the carfree city.  At most a five minute walk to public transportation followed by a leisurely ride of at most 25 minutes and then another walk of at most 5 minutes. 35 minutes from any part of a city of up to one million people to any other part.  Each stop of the subway or tram is the center of a separate district, which he visualizes in the European style of a piazza with streets radiating out from it. The narrow streets are filled with shops, houses and parks and pedestrians meeting and greeting one another.  This is where I want to live!<br /><br />In the final part of the book he describes how to reach his vision.  He understands that before becoming universal the plan must be tested and perfected before people will become convinced. First single districts will have to be tried. Then parts of existing cities will need to be re-engineered.  He lists several cities that have sufficient public transportation to become carfree.  Surprisingly to me Manhattan was among those listed. Finally, Crawford lists some special cases where carfree cities would be particularly attractive.  I especially liked his idea for a carfree retirement community.<br /><br />If you feel that cities are too noisy, congested and polluted or that sprawling suburbs are less than ideal then I advise you most strongly to purchase this book.  You may want to first visit the accompanying Web site at [...]uld be particularly attractive.  I especially liked his idea for a carfree retirement community. <br /> <br />If you feel that cities are too noisy, congested and polluted or that sprawling suburbs are less than ideal then I advise you most strongly to purchase this book.  You may want to first visit the accompanying Web site at [...]	2004-12-11
US	53048914	R1TNLL367247DT	0387966757	741280370	Groups and Symmetry (Undergraduate Texts in Mathematics)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Excellent introduction to group theory	Please note that the other reviews here are obviously for some other book.  This is not an advanced text on bifurcations and stability.  It is an introductory book on group theory.  I have been using this book for self study.  It is well suited to this purpose.  The book uses symmetry to unify and motivate the study of groups. The discussion of the symmetry groups of Platonic solids is both enjoyable in itself and useful for visualizing groups. The chapters are very short.  The exercises are well suited to gaining insight into the material.	2004-11-02
US	53048914	RMOZ2FWTAVV9H	0451201515	640736445	Life on the Other Side: A Psychic's Tour of the Afterlife	Books	1	37	47	N	N	A most bizarre view of heaven	In the interest of full disclosure I should point out that I am an atheist, but I read this book as objectively as I could and found that heaven as described in the book to be highly non-credible and casts doubt on the veracity of Ms Browne's psychic experience. I will let you judge for yourself by describing several aspects. If these seem reasonable then by all means go out and buy the book. Otherwise save your money.<br />1. All people on the other side are 30 years old, even those who never attained that age on earth.<br />2. People have all of their body parts but they are non-functional - lungs do not breathe and hearts do not beat.<br />3. You can eat if you want to but it is not necessary.  The good news in this is that you never have to go to the bathroom and presumably never gain weight.<br />4. You will never find out which, if any, religion is the correct one.  People of all religions continue to worship as previously. No example is given of what a minister has to say to a congregation that has already been saved.<br />5. Everyone speaks Aramaic which was the general language of the Middle East before Arabic, was probably the language of Jesus and has not been in general use for 800 years. Presumably the language has been kept up to date with additions for the terms for bicycle, ice cream and nuclear energy.<br />6. Plants and animals do not die and do not reproduce. Plants and animals at all stages of development remain as they are forever in a Disneyesque animatronic display.<br />7. Most people live in houses that they mentally project.<br />8. Most people work at regular nine to five jobs, presumably as a way of giving themselves something to do.<br />If you find that this has the ring of truth or if you find it even more humorous than I do then rush out and buy this book.	2004-04-06
US	53048914	R120M5EST2TTIL	1559274611	983349113	Timequake	Books	3	1	4	N	N	Vonnegut does Postmodernism	Vonnegut complains in this novel about how television and movies have drawn away potential readers of novels.  Maybe that explains why the book is filled with hackneyed phrases (&quot;Get this...&quot;, &quot;The thing is..&quot;) and unfunny R rated humor and why phrases like Kilgore Trout's &quot;The squeaky wheel gets the oil&quot; is treated as if it were a clever phrase that he invented. We readers are such dolts after all that we would not appreciate an attempt at anything literary.<br />In his deconstruction Vonnegut mixes biographical information with a novel within a novel about the timequake in the title, in which everyone is forced to relive the last ten years of their lives.  In a monumenally lame attempt to make this interesting people experience the timequake on two levels.  They get to do and feel everything that happened previously and they get to watch themselves doing it. For me this requires an impossible act of disbelief suspension.  You cannot be a participant and a spectator at the same time.<br />What keeps this book from being a complete disaster is the biographical information it provides and the skill used in weaving back and forth between fiction and reality. I would recommend this book to diehard Vonnegut fans, but it is not one of his better works.	2004-03-08
US	53048914	R1CIIYWPR8M3UD	0553527320	403168550	Fierce Invalids Home from Hot Climates: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Weak story but otherwise excellent	Having gotten the book as an audio cassette it is only proper to critique Keith Szarabajka, the reader.  He did a truly excellent job of narrating the story and providing the voices for all the characters.<br />The story in the book is a bit contrived even though Robbins fits all the pieces together.  By the time I reached the fourth part I was no longer particularly interested in Switters' taboo. I was also annoyed that a South American tribe is depicted as being devoid of a sense of humor, not knowing what laughter is. No such tribes exist. Laughter is universal. This is not just nitpicking because this matter of laughter is a major element in the book. Still the writing is first rate and I found Switters an interesting character even if he does come across at times as an overgrown adolescent.<br />Since Switters is supposedly modeled after a friend of Robbins, several weeks after finishing the book what I find msyelf wondering about is how accurately Robbins depicts the CIA. Are there really \\"angels\\" like Switters and Bobby Cox, people driven more by idealism than by national intetests? At one time I would have considered such a possibilty to be preposeterous. Yet the current news is full of an apparent conflict between the White House and CIA.  CIA agent Joe Wilson was sent to Niger to uncover information about uranium being sent to Iraq.  When Wilson publicly announced that he did not find any evidence of such a connection someone in the White House retaliated by blowing the cover of Wilson's wife, also a CIA agent.  Kind of makes you wonder.	2004-01-23
US	53048914	RFOAZ1TE15606	047186854X	290888283	Bypasses: A Simple Approach to Complexity	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A neglected gem	I have not read all of this book and to be frank some of it is beyond my ability, but quite a lot of it is not.  In any case this is not the type of book that you pick up and read in one sitting.<br />The book presents a unifying theory that covers a great many phenomena in mathematics and science.  The basic concept is deceptively simple: transform a problem, solve the transformed problem and then reverse transform it. One elementary example is to mulitiply two numbers by adding their logarithms.  A second is to communicate across a long distance by tranforming voice into electrical current.<br />This simple idea has wide applicability. Most of the book presents examples from a wide range of fields. They will make you look at things in a different light. Bypasses deserves a wider audience.	2003-11-30
US	53048914	REBHQY0C2P11B	1402505396	406271874	Founding Brothers	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Very informative, badly in need of editing	What I like best about this book is that it shows the founders of the American republic in their role as politicians. It allows the reader to relate to them as people. For all their high principles they were willing to sacrifice their friendships for political gain. This is not to accuse them of demagoguery, far from it.  The differences between the founders was not so much based on personal grudges as differences in vision.  Ellis shows how the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution symbolized two different aspects of the Revolutionary ideals - freedom of the individual on the one hand and political unity on the other.  I found it quite telling that Adams candidly stated his belief that an elite few must be entrusted with leadership. Although Ellis never says so explicitly, I think that this was at the heart of the differences between Adams and Jefferson.<br />I also enjoyed the way that the issues were shown in the context of the times. The issue of slavery is particularly inteteresting. The book makes clear that although everyone was aware that slavery was an explosive issue that would have to be dealt with it is also clear that the attitudes toward race by both sides precluded a diplomatic solution to the problem.<br />On the negative side, this book does too much rambling. I did not feel that I needed to know in such overstated detail all the particulars of the duel between Burr and Hamilton. Although Ellis has several points to make, nowhere in the book does he concisely state them. The book is also too uneven in the amount of time alloted to the major people in it.  I would have liked to have known more about the personal life and viewpoints of Hamilton and Madison. Although the book shows Abigail Adams to have been a major influence on her husband John it would have been interesting to learn more from her personal perspective. Still the positives far outweigh the negatives for this book.  It does a good job of showing that America after the Revolution was still a work in progress and that the interplay of the differences between the founders is responsible for this country's greatness.ion was still a work in progress and that the interplay of the differences between the founders is responsible for this country's greatness.	2003-08-16
US	53048914	R1H8L4XL14P4LN	080728162X	159975375	Holes (Listening Library)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Finally a good book for younger readers, and adults too	I am a middle aged male and I like to keep up with what is current, including children's literature.  Most of what I have seen of late is not worth talking about. I am no Harry Potter fan.<br />This book, however, is outstanding. For one thing it is a good yarn. It mixes elements from the past and present to create a well crafted story that will hold your interest from beginning to end. The main character, Stanley Yelnats, is a kind of everyman, or perhaps everychild, who succeeds not so much through physical strength and cunning as by courage and integrity. This book has been compared to Catcher in the Rye, but though Stanley is unjustly punished he never becomes cynical or vengeful. Other characters are also well developed and the dialog is most enjoyable.  Highly recommended.	2003-05-27
US	53048914	RH29KEVVCT4TT	0321146530	540051033	Test Driven Development: By Example	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	Allows you to judge TDD for yourself	Let me say first off that I agree with much that Kent Beck has to say: 1. Testing should be done along with the coding. 2. Use regression tests to be confident of making changes. 3. In many ways testing can be used as documentation since it is much more definitive than specification documents. 4. Testing should be used to have the client sign off on a product. In reading the book I learned the specifics of how tests are designed in TDD. It seems reasonable and I am going to make a conscious effort at designing my tests in the way suggested.<br />Where I disagree is in the use of the tests to drive software design. In the first part of the book, which I think is the most important part, a very good coding problem is analyzed - it is realistic, limited in scope and far from trivial. I followed along until I reached a point where things stopped making sense.  I skipped ahead to see where things were headed and then things became clear.<br />What is being advocated is a type of bottom up design approach. This may work for some. It may even be that the book faithfully reproduced Beck's reasoning process. It does not work for me. I first have to see the larger picture, what he refers to as the &quot;metaphor.&quot; The whole thing would have been much clearer to me if at the beginning I was told that one approach to summing money in different currencies would be to use an array to store the information but that instead the implementation would create a list similar to how things are done in LISP.<br />I urge the reader to judge for him/herself. Like I said this is a good example to go through. I even learned some things about more advanced uses of object oriented programming. As for software design I am going to stick with dataflow diagrams. They are still the best tool that I know of for putting together software, UML notwithstanding.	2003-04-17
US	53048914	ROQ4DTH1YB3AR	0374174695	340533675	Imagining Numbers: (particularly the square root of minus fifteen)	Books	1	5	30	N	N	Awful	I did not read the entire book, but I got a good idea of how it is laid out by reading sections of it.  The book spends a lot of time discussing the quadratic equation.  The derivation of the equation is in an Appendix at the back of the book. This, I decided, would be a good place to start.  What I saw has to be the most non-intuitive possible proof.  There is no motive, no explanation for why things are done the way they are. This is a shame because there is a simple intuitive derivation. I came up with the formula when I was 14 after learning how to factor second order equations.  No, I am no genius, not by a long shot. Anybody who is sufficiently nerdy could do the same.<br />After this initial disappointment I glanced at other sections of the book.  I found nothing that would provide insight for the non-mathematician.	2003-03-23
US	53048914	R3S7CXN2Q0PKR9	0138543801	781569571	Structured Analysis and System Specification	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Changed the way I look at programming	This book offers data flow as a simple and powerful metaphor for programming. The idea is this: look at a program as a black box that takes information in and spews information out, then at each stage refine this black box by breaking it out into individual ones. I read this book many years ago and it remains the most useful book on program design that I have read. It was written before object oriented programming but it adapts to it in an obvious way. Forget about UML. Data flow is the best way of presenting the elusive big picture view, that view of the forest that gets obscured by all those trees. It has the following virtues offered nowhere else: 1. It serves as a design tool that you can work with and refine to identify object classes. 2. It is easily understood by computer illiterate clients. 3. It allows programmers new to a project to quickly come up to speed.	2002-08-09
US	53048914	R3PSZ19NEIZ5YH	0195117298	637128035	The End of Time: The Next Revolution in Physics	Books	1	6	21	N	N	Makes no sense	I did not read the entire book.  I don't think I could have gotten through it. I picked it up in a book store and read portions of it. Since this is a book intended for the lay reader this was sufficient to tell me whether the book was worth purchasing.<br />I am not a physicist, just an educated layman.  The book uses a whole bunch of scientific jargon to say nothing. To provide a convincing argument that time is an illusion Barbour must find some alternative way of explaining all those phenomena that we explain using time, like why firecrackers explode after the fuse is lit. He does not do this.<br />I would recommend that anyone intending to buy this book first leaf through it at a library or book store. If it makes sense to you then more power to you. Go and buy it. Otherwise do not waste your time and money.	2002-07-13
US	53048914	RG0C2DRU4QFF3	0201058669	903965886	Parallel Program Design: A Foundation	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Most thought provoking	I rate this book 5 stars even in the knowledge that the ideas presented never went anywhere. What is presented is sufficiently interesting and well presented that it is still worth examining. Chandy creates a temporal logic that can be applied to the specification of computer programs.  It was created primarily  for parallel programs but applies equally as well to non-parallel programs.  The great thing about this logic is that it is possible to carry out proofs that the program does what it is intended. It is also possible to convert the logic into a standard programming language.<br />I would have to guess that the reason this idea never caught on is the difficulty of doing the proofs.  Unless there is some easy way to automate the proof process this method is not very practical. Still the ideas have a lot of intrinsic interest and are of such great potential use that I think this book is worth examining.	2002-03-25
US	53048914	R26OISL0ZQNDI0	0486284336	138261308	How to Solve Mathematical Problems (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	3	22	27	N	N	Good on Details, but Poorly Organized	This book analyzes several problems, mostly in recreational mathematics, in fine detail.  One feature worthy of emulation is that the book will present a problem, ask the reader to try to solve it, provide some analysis, ask the reader to again try to solve it and repeat this procedure for several iterations.<br />That said, the global organization of the book leaves much to be desired.  It opens by showing several example problems similar to others that are solved in the book.  However, some of these initial examples are not later solved.  There was one problem in particular, a chess problem, that I spent some time on unsuccessfully trying to solve, whose answer would have been appreciated.<br />Wicklegren uses an artificial intelligence paradigm in the organization of the book.  While AI techniques are useful for computers, there are better pattern matching techniques more suitable for use by humans. Hill climbing, for example, which is given as a basic technique, is good for use by a computer when no better method can be found.  However, it is not well suited for hand calculation.  Wicklegren tries to cover over this by saying that any technique that solves a problem by simplifying it, is an example of hill climbing even if there is no associated metric.  There are several other places where the book tries unsuccessfully to shoehorn solution strategies into the few general techniques around which the book is organized.  For example, the use of restraints is given as an example of proof by contradiction.  Recursion and induction are lumped into a chapter on the use of subgoals.<br />By training the author is a psychologist who apparently took a lot of courses in math.  This is a good background for studying problem solving and someday someone with a similar background may write a worthwhile book on the subject.  In this book, it is painfully obvious that the author's math skills are a bit rusty and that the manuscript was not reviewed by anyone whose math skills are more current.  For example, one of the solutions given is incorrect.  This is due to a mental lapse where playing cards with numbers 2 to 8 are treated as if there are 8 cards instead of 7. In the last chapter, which departs from recreational mathematics, there are a few mathematical examples whose solutions are overly complicated. The most flagrant example of this is a problem that asks to determine the height of a triangle given the length b of the base and the two base angles of A and B. The straightforward solution to this is to consider the two segments that the altitude divides the base into to get the equation b = h*cot A + h*cot B.  Instead, the book uses Heron's formula for the area of a triangle. The book presents an algebraic proof of Pascal's Identity without labeling it as such and without reference to the much more intuitive combinatorial proof.<br />Overall, I would barely recommend this book because of the way that the details are presented, but I would advise the reader to ignore the surrounding contextual presentation.re more current.  For example, one of the solutions given is incorrect.  This is due to a mental lapse where playing cards with numbers 2 to 8 are treated as if there are 8 cards instead of 7. In the last chapter, which departs from recreational mathematics, there are a few mathematical examples whose solutions are overly complicated. The most flagrant example of this is a problem that asks to determine the height of a triangle given the length b of the base and the two base angles of A and B. The straightforward solution to this is to consider the two segments that the altitude divides the base into to get the equation b = h*cot A + h*cot B.  Instead, the book uses Heron's formula for the area of a triangle. The book presents an algebraic proof of Pascal's Identity without labeling it as such and without reference to the much more intuitive combinatorial proof.<br />Overall, I would barely recommend this book because of the way that the details are presented, but I would advise the reader to ignore the surrounding contextual presentation.	2001-12-29
US	53048914	R1BNHVHPHJB00K	068485015X	962464879	The Road Less Traveled	Books	4	16	18	N	N	If only common sense were truly common	I tend to avoid self-help books but the title of this one intrigued me.  After reading a little of it in the book store I bought it and have not at all been disappointed.  Among all the books promising secret formulas for success, in a society which reads horoscopes and seems to be the repository of all the talismans in the history of the world, it is most refreshing to read a book that dares to tell the simple truth - life ain't easy.<br />I most like Peck's discussion of love. True love requires a lot of work.  It requires a lot of communication.  The act of truly listening to someone is at one and the same time the simplest and the most difficult thing a person can do, the least and the most that can be done.  There are so many people who could benefit from taking this message to heart.<br />Having said this, I do have some criticisms of the book.  Peck does not relate his thoughts to that of others.  What he says resonates with the existential idea that we create our own meanings. It would have been nice to have had a discussion of this. I also do not care for his discussion of religious grace. It is not just that I am an atheist. It is that the idea that God's love works magic is at odds with the message about the work required for love. I have also looked at some of the books that Peck wrote after this one and found them disappointing. Nevertheless I whole-heartedly recommend this work. It contains a simple morning after sobering message that society as a whole can benefit from and that I as an indvidual found very useful.	2001-10-27
US	53048914	R2XF4SQNFJURYF	0393048799	997615053	The Twilight of American Culture	Books	3	11	17	N	N	Well written but faulty analysis	There is an entire genre of books devoted to the fall of the United States. At one time these books predicted the triumph of Communism and later books told how Japan would replace the U.S. as the number one economic power. These days the scenario for the America's demise is much less clear.<br />Berman gets a lot of mileage out of comparing the United States to the Roman Empire. He says, for example, that like the last days of Rome, wealth in the United States is being more and more concentrated among the wealthy. This sounds a lot like Marx's prediction for the end of capitalism. The important difference between Rome and America is that the American economy is a market economy. The lesson learned from the Great Depression is that business suffers if not enough people can afford to buy the goods that they manufacture. The welfare state has built-in safeguards to prevent this from happening again. The argument against the collapse of capitalism can be put very simply: 1. People like material goods 2. Free enterprise overseen by representative government is the most efficient way of producing and distributing these goods<br />A major problem with this book is that it ignores the importance of science and technology. Berman would have us believe that Rome's decline was linked to loss of rhetorical skills. The interesting question is not why Rome fell but why it was so successful for so long given that in the things that mattered - the production of food, clothing, shelter and weapons, Rome had a marginal advantage over its neighbors.  Berman also ignores recent scholarship showing that the Dark Ages were not nearly so dark as previously believed. In their book Cathedral, Forge and Waterwheel Frances and Joseph Gies show that during the Medieval period inventions from Asia were adopted and improved upon. It is the increase in living standards due to improvements in agriculture, the use of water and air power in manufacturing and the increase in trade that made the Renaissance possible.<br />The decline in educational standards that Berman refers to is questionable. Americans have always been a pragmatic people - we know what we have to. Yankee ingenuity does not encompass knowledge of art, literature and philosophy. Americans garner a significant share of Nobel prizes and the American high tech manufacturing sector is second to none.<br />American aesthetics has never been very prominent. Although many of us find it hard to believe, people are not forced at gunpoint to buy Big Macs or visit Disney World. The replacement of high culture by popular culture has been going on for quite a while and is likely to continue. The monastic life that is suggested, which seems to consist of reading the likes of Aristotle and Jane Austen, is not likely to happen.<br />There are problems for industrialized nations that the book does not address. Most prominent is our dependence on non-renewable energy sources. Secondly, the peace, stability and comfort of wealthy nations raise questions about the meaning of life. These matters are discussed in Francis Fukuyama's The End of History and the Last Man which, although not as well written as this book, I would still recommend over it.ssance possible.<br />The decline in educational standards that Berman refers to is questionable. Americans have always been a pragmatic people - we know what we have to. Yankee ingenuity does not encompass knowledge of art, literature and philosophy. Americans garner a significant share of Nobel prizes and the American high tech manufacturing sector is second to none.<br />American aesthetics has never been very prominent. Although many of us find it hard to believe, people are not forced at gunpoint to buy Big Macs or visit Disney World. The replacement of high culture by popular culture has been going on for quite a while and is likely to continue. The monastic life that is suggested, which seems to consist of reading the likes of Aristotle and Jane Austen, is not likely to happen.<br />There are problems for industrialized nations that the book does not address. Most prominent is our dependence on non-renewable energy sources. Secondly, the peace, stability and comfort of wealthy nations raise questions about the meaning of life. These matters are discussed in Francis Fukuyama's The End of History and the Last Man which, although not as well written as this book, I would still recommend over it.	2001-06-24
US	53048914	RINGO0SSI2VTH	0201616416	870177034	Extreme Programming Explained: Embrace Change	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Some very good ideas and some questionable ones	First off let me say that this book is well written.  Whether or not you agree with the ideas I do not think that you will find a better presented description or argument in favor of the methodology.<br />The book has a lot of plain common sense (which is not really all that common): Work with simple designs and short release cycles; build testing into the development process; do integrated testing all the time; always get someone to review the code design and check the final code.<br />My biggest complaint is the attitude toward documentation - namely that it is unnecessary.  What happens when the program completes all the tests and the design team disbands to work on new programs?  A few months later the client is prepared to pay for enhancements. I know that when I move on to a new project my memory of the previous one evaporates.  I sure wouldn't want to have to reverse engineer the program specifications from the test plans.  The good news is that the documentation need not be very complex.  A few data flow charts do a good job of giving the big picture.  In-line documentation is not difficult once you get in the habit of doing it as you code.  There should be two levels of in-line documentation - one for someone who wants to just make use of an object and one for someone who may need to make modifications.  The higher level of documentation is also good for code reuse.  Why bother writing something new if code already exists that does what you want?  The detailed level of documentation helps to answer the question of how big a procedure should be. The documentation should read like a simple story; it should not take more than a minute or so to get a general understanding of how the procedure is put together.  If it takes longer the procedure is too complex.<br />I recommend reading this book for both programmers and managers. Just keep an open mind for both its strengths and weaknesses.	2001-02-18
US	53048914	R3VLRRD9PF4Y8I	0671867806	794137195	Being and Nothingness	Books	5	20	24	N	N	Definitive Work of Existentialism	I agree with those who complain about the book's verbosity, but the ideas in it more than compensate.  There are some decent summaries of Sartre's philosophy but nothing that compares with the original. I disagree with those who say that it is necessary to first read the works of other existenialists. One of the great things about this book is that, unlike many other philosophers, Sarte is unashamed of acknowledging those who influenced his thinking, particularly Husserl and Heidegger.<br />My greatest criticism of the book is that it is unnecessarily pessimistic, with such statements as &quot;life is a useless passion&quot;. This is not warranted by the general philosophy.  I find the notion that we are creaters of meaning to be liberating.  Sartre gives a brilliant philosophic interpretation of sado-masochism, but makes the mistake of assuming that sado-masochism forms the entire basis for human relationships.  The greatest joys in life come from our ability to commuicate with and share experiences with others. Being the gregarious person that he was I am sure that in his personal life this was true of Sartre as well.	2001-01-01
US	53048914	R35PNW8MC0GHGO	076152729X	242402545	PHP Essentials (Prima Tech Linux Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	When time is of the essence (is it ever otherwise?)	I had a requirement at work to write a small Web server application and had never done any Web server programming.  Php is the perfect language for this and this is the perfect book to get you up and running right away.  The book is written in the form of a series of easy to follow tutorials.  I also purchased a WROX book with the idea that it would take me past the essentials.  The only thing that I used this second book for was regular expressions, which PHP Essentials only touches upon briefly.	2000-12-24
US	53048914	RWQ10SXX0JGQ4	1559941766	764744414	Glass Menagerie	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great Literature	What makes for great art is the embodiment of the universal within the particular.  The characters in the play are clearly drawn and yet represent our own conflicting desires and aspirations.  I sympathized with them all even as I recognized their faults. This play is about the characters and not about plot. The end of the play follows tragically and invevitably from the characters. The play is surprisingly contemporary in the issues it raises. It made me yearn and ache and feel awful and wonderful all at the same time.	2000-10-29
US	53048914	RJRV134HY5M7Z	1579121551	672169930	Photo OOPS: 101 Photo Opportunities Gone Horribly Awry	Books	4	42	43	N	N	I laughed out loud	If you like this type of humor, as I do, this book will crack you up. I read it in the book store and could not manage to stifle my laughter. However, I would not buy this book. It only takes a few minutes to read and this kind of stuff gets old very quickly.	2000-10-09
US	53048914	R29ORINY3WL0I3	0345408764	517687265	Catastrophe: An Investigation into the Origins of Modern Civilization	Books	4	9	13	N	N	Great history of the Dark Ages	As a layman I am not in a position to determine the accuracy of the premise that a major volcano caused a chain of events that led to the world-wide replacement of several major civilizations by newer ones.  However, the catastrophe creates such a wonderful method of discussing this  period that it would be useful even if it has no basis in fact.<br />In high  school the Dark Ages is usually covered by saying that the world went to  sleep after the fall of the Western Roman Empire and woke up during the  Renaissance, with some causal mention of Constantinople, the spread of  Islam, the Crusades and knights in armor.  Well, the world that woke up was  a whole lot different from the one that had supposedly gone to sleep.  For  example, despite several attempts at resucitation, the Roman Empire was  gone and had been replaced in Europe by modern  nations.<br />This book  provides a very readable global account of this neglected historical period  and is notable for its inclusion of non-European history.  I recommend it  to everyone and suggest that many of the topics discussed be added to the  high school curriculum.	2000-07-05
US	53048914	RSQQRNR987YLM	0393039188	634894832	Feynman's Lost Lecture: The Motion of Planets Around the Sun	Books	1	24	29	N	N	Big Disappointment	When I saw this book in the book store I thought, &quot;What a great idea! A simple geometric explanation of planetary orbits&quot;.  Then I read the book's supposed proof of why the lines from the focus points of an elllipse  to a boundary point make equal angles with the tangent line.  The argument  was both long-winded and completely invalid!  By way of comparison check  the elegant proof given at the beginning of *Geometry and the Imagination*  by Hilbert and Cohen-Vossen. I can't imagine that Feynman was responsible  for this.  The only reasonable conclusion is that the authors of this book  don't know what they are talking about.	2000-03-12
US	53048914	RKO6AQLGGTL02	0439136350	667539744	Harry Potter And The Prisoner Of Azkaban	Books	3	2	13	N	N	What's all the fuss about?	I read this book as an adult and I just don't see what has everybody cheering.  I notice that nobody extolls its literary quality, and with good reason. It reads like the script for a television show.  The one strength  that the book has is a well constructed plot.  Unfortunately, the plot does  not start to unfold until the last few chapters.  Until then we get to  observe the everyday lives of the various witches and wizards. They attend  classes that consist mainly of memorizing magical incantations.  Outside  class mostly what they do is go shopping.  Apparently the magic of the free  market exceeds that of the occult.  Christian conservatives have nothing to  be concerned about.  There are even holiday breaks for Christmas and  Easter.  I found myself not caring a hog's wart for any of the characters.  The main character, Harry Potter, is particularly uninteresting.  If your  idea of great theater is a television show then this book may be for you.  Otherwise, for both children and adults I would advise something better  written.	1999-12-17
US	53048914	RMV9TV1EOTLOX	0140185011	37294671	Travels with My Aunt	Books	4	15	17	N	N	funny but disturbing	I enjoyed this book but I found it disturbing in the same way that I find Nabokov's &quot;Lolita&quot; disturbing. Greene divided the chapters into two parts and they are very different in tone.  The first is a light  narrative of Henry's travels with his picaresque Aunt Augusta, who has many  associations with people outside of the law. The second part of the book  starts with an encounter by Henry and Augusta with a woman who has shown a  long-time devotion to the memory of Henry's dead father.<br />Augusta's  antipathy to this woman sets the dark mood that underlies the remainder of  the book. Augusta's unsentimental amoralism is no longer so amusing.  Henry's involvement in this world is like Alice trying to  establish  residency in Wonderland.  Henry remarks about how much he has changed and  yet in some ways he has not changed at all.  He moves from passively  drifting in one world to doing the same in another.  He is incapable of  love or attachment and our sympathy toward him makes us question our own  values.	1999-06-05
