US	53046320	RFPXBVSWUFTQP	0811840603	125717093	According to the Rolling Stones	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Bill Wyman 1  - the Rolling Stones 0	This book is made by interviews to the four remaining Rolling Stones, Mick, Keith, Ronnie and Charlie. They talk about their memories not in a very orderly way and sometimes they contradict each other. This book, as another reviewer put it, is aimed to those who already know the history of the band and want to know the oppinion of the members of the band, as they recall them. There is not in depth analysis of the music or the influence of the Stones, not every important chapter of the saga is covered, many important points are missing or ignored, and Mick or Keith dont talk about the dark points. For example, the book never mentions that Keith had a drug problem! Heh. If you relied in this book only, you would end up thinking that the only member of the band with a drug problem was Charlie Watts. Besides, the interviews are not always that good. Mick Jagger seems totally uninterested and bored. He could have made a little effort, as this is an official book from the band. Keith provides the best quotes and the best memories, as usual. He comes out as the true leader and creative engine of the band. Charlie seems like he doesnt care: &quot;this is only a job, I dont care about the Stones, I never listen to our records&quot;; Ronnie is okay. Brian Jones is mentioned only as the paranoid who used to be a headache and thank God left the band and died. How cynical can you get? Mick Taylor could have been interviewed too, he is still alive and surely he has his own side of the story. Bill Wyman is very much missed, as is James Phelge (their roomate) and people like Billy Preston or Wayne Perkins, temporal band mates. This book could have been so much better..... But Bill Wyman has his own book already (Rolling with the Stones) a more honest and comprehensive effort. <P>The best part of the book would be the photographs and the essays at the end of each chapter by noted personalities such as Sheryl Crow, Ahmed Ertgun, Peter Wolf and others. I have both Wymans and the Stones own book, and I prefer the one by Bill. If you can read spanish, an even better book would be &quot;The Rolling Stones: Bailando con el diablo&quot;.	2003-12-29
US	53046320	RKIYXZ486J08Y	0878164065	528406957	Lost Girls, Book 1	Books	2	25	46	N	N	Alan Moore's laziest work	I know I will get negative votes for this review but I have to be honest. I thought that the name Alan Moore in the cover of anything was the guarantee of a good story, but this magazine proved me wrong. I call it a magazine and not a book or graphic novel because the story is only 24 pages long and consists of three much shorter independent stories, merely snapshots. The stories are lazy  (Mr. Moore didnt try hard enough this time), they are supposed to be erotica, but I found them nearer to drama than anything else, and now to the worst part: the art, very childish, very amateurish, hardly evoking any emotion at all. I will read The League of Extraoduinary Gentlemen tonight because I need to forgive Alan Moore.	2003-08-13
US	53046320	R34EVPOPR5W7LR	0800626796	510839070	The Resurrection of the Son of God (Christian Origins and the Question of God, Vol. 3)	Books	5	148	162	N	N	What the first christians really said about Jesus	We finally have with us the third volume of Tom Wright's great work. If after reading the second volumen, Jesus and the victory of God, anyone thought that Tom wasnt interested or didnt believe in the resurrection of Jesus, now is the time to find out. Important in his exposition is making clear that when Paul and the evangelists talked about Jesus being raised and/or resurrected, they were NOT talking about a post-mortem spiritual existence or Jesus's continued prescence in the early church. They werent either talking about a mere resucitation or using the word resurrection as another way of saying that he was dead and resting with God. They were literally speaking about death's reversal, about someone being dead and then being alive again, with a (trans)physical body.<br />My favorite chapter was the one devoted to what Paul actually said about his encounter with Jesus. You might be surprised to learn that there was no falling from the horse in the road to Damascus, and that the narrative in Acts about a blinding light and a voice is only a biblical model to tell about an encounter with God's sphere. Tom Wright is more interested in what Paul himself said, not Luke. And Paul's words cannot be read in another way: he says that he saw Jesus.<br />If the early christians were wrong or right about Jesus being raised from the dead is another point. Tom puts the evidence in front of us and lets us decide. What remains clear at the end is that those 1st century christian-jews really believed that Jesus raised from the tomb in the first Easter.	2003-06-25
US	53046320	R1UYPO1VTYZOA0	0060616628	217861600	Jesus	Books	3	64	78	N	N	Good, but a lot of pieces are missing	\\"You can only amputate the sick to a certain degree; if you amputate too much, you will kill the patient\\" says Dale Allison, another Jesus scholar, reacting to scholars in the line of Crossan and Marcus Borg, who have stripped the historical Jesus of his apocalipticism and jewishness, thus ignoring tons of ancient evidence. That Jesus was, for example, an apocalyptic prophet and an observant Jew is supported in the earliest layers of tradition, such as the Q gospel (50s CE), Mark (60s)  and Paul (50s). This is not a problem for Crossan, who says that the apocaliptic material (the belief that the world was about to end) was added to the gospels by the early church soon after Jesus died. Of more historical value (at least for him) are documents like the late Epistle of Barbanas (100s), the Didache (70s), the Secret gospel of Mark (the earliest copy dating from the middle ages), the Gospel of Thomas (150s) and - how odd - the reliefs made in stone in the 3rd or 4th century that depict Jesus as a greek philospher. How far can you press your hypothesis in one direction?<br />Key to Crossan's method is the concept of multiple attestation. If one complex (for example, the relationship between children and the Kingdom of God) appears indeppendently in more than one source, then that complex goes back to the historical Jesus. I would have no problem with this if Crossan were consistent about his own methods. Other multiple attested complexes and events, such as there being a group of twelve apostles, or the passion narrative, or the words of Jesus at the last supper, or the so-called nature miracles, he simply says \\"they are inventions\\". On the other hand, some sayings appearing in only one source (\\"I will destroy this house...\\", in the gospel of Thomas) he considers authentic.<br />Despite the evidence, in multiple independent sources, that there was a last supper (Paul, Mark, John)  Crossan calls it an invention just because it isnt mentioned in a 1st century text known as Didache. If it isnt in the Didahce, then it never happened. (!)<br />This doesnt mean that Crossan is always far from the historical Jesus. The idea of a free exchange of food and miracles at the very roots of the Jesus movement, open commensality and radical egalitarianism must be very close to what actually happened. But as one reviewer put it, many, many pieces of the puzzle are missing... or have been ignored on purpose.<br />For more on the subject, I strongly recommend N.T. Wright's Jesus and the Victory of God.as Didache. If it isnt in the Didahce, then it never happened. (!)<br />This doesnt mean that Crossan is always far from the historical Jesus. The idea of a free exchange of food and miracles at the very roots of the Jesus movement, open commensality and radical egalitarianism must be very close to what actually happened. But as one reviewer put it, many, many pieces of the puzzle are missing... or have been ignored on purpose. <br />For more on the subject, I strongly recommend N.T. Wright´s Jesus and the Victory of God.	2003-05-11
US	53046320	R14W9Q3UXRP093	155395677X	667328348	The Rolling Stones: Bailando con el Diablo (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Indispensable	&iquest;Cu&aacute;ntos libros m&aacute;s sobre los Rolling Stones hacen falta? Consid&eacute;rese que hasta Tony S&aacute;nchez ha empezado a anunciar la segunda parte de su famoso \\"Up and down with The Rolling Stones\\", y pareciera que ya existen demasiados. Sin embargo, ya desde las primeras p&aacute;ginas, este libro nos hace opinar lo contrario . Muchos trabajos literarios sobre los Rolling Stones prometen contarnos su historia \\"como nunca antes la hab&iacute;as escuchado\\"; para los conocedores, esta promesa por lo general queda sin cumplir, pero \\"Bailando con el diablo\\" efectivamente se lee distinto, en ocasiones como cr&oacute;nica, en ocasiones como historia de suspenso y en otras con suficiente buen humor. Dividida en cuatro partes, el autor desarrolla una propuesta en la primera de ellas, dedicada a la historia, se&ntilde;alando c&oacute;mo los Rolling Stones vivieron de la provocaci&oacute;n en todos sus niveles y de hacer se&ntilde;alamientos que no siempre resultaron muy c&oacute;modos. La narraci&oacute;n est&aacute; intercalada con palabras muy reveladoras de los propios Stones, lo que demuestra un gran trabajo de investigaci&oacute;n. Los pasajes son v&iacute;vidos e intensos, por ejemplo, cuando el propio Bill Wyman relata como Keith Richards se retorc&iacute;a en el piso del dolor por falta de droga, o el propio guitarrista, cuando narra como conocieron a Muddy Waters en su primera visita a los estudios Chess  (la leyenda del blues les carg&oacute; sus maletas).  La segunda parte es la m&aacute;s extensa y est&aacute; dedicada a comentar disco por disco, yendo siempre m&aacute;s all&aacute; de la simple enumeraci&oacute;n de las canciones. En cada disco hay suficientes p&aacute;rrafos para hacer buenos an&aacute;lisis sobre la trascendencia de las letras, los acontecimientos personales de la banda y los momentos hist&oacute;ricos que produjeron sus mejores obras, etc&eacute;tera. El autor conoce lo que est&aacute; haciendo, abundando el libro con informaci&oacute;n que no hab&iacute;a encontrado en otras obras. La tercera parte es una semblanza de cada uno de los miembros que han pertenecido al grupo, aunque se extra&ntilde;a la presencia de Darryl Jones y Ian Stewart. La cuarta parte completa la obra con un ABC de la banda, hablando de todos los aspectos que no alcanzan a cubrir las tres primeras, como su carrera cinematogr&aacute;fica y un analisis sobre los temas in&eacute;ditos. Primera vez que me entero que los Rolling tambien grabaron \\"Roll over Beethoven\\". En general, un esfuerzo muy original que ser&aacute; indispensable en toda buena bibliograf&iacute;a sobre el grupo. Es de agradecer la exhaustividad con la que se presenta. Definivo que no hab&iacute;amos tenido la oportunidad de ver una obra tan completa sobre los Rolling desde el recordado libro de Jordi Sierra I Fabra.  Atte. David H.La cuarta parte completa la obra con un ABC de la banda, hablando de todos los aspectos que no alcanzan a cubrir las tres primeras, como su carrera cinematogrfica y un analisis sobre los temas inditos. Primera vez que me entero que los Rolling tambien grabaron \\"Roll over Beethoven\\". En general, un esfuerzo muy original que ser indispensable en toda buena bibliografa sobre el grupo. Es de agradecer la exhaustividad con la que se presenta. Definivo que no habamos tenido la oportunidad de ver una obra tan completa sobre los Rolling desde el recordado libro de Jordi Sierra I Fabra.    Atte. David H.	2003-04-18
US	53046320	R2XBEJGZLGUKKE	1587360462	859280736	Los horizontes más solitarios del mundo	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Traves&iacute;a hacia los horizontes m&aacute;s solitarios del mundo	&quot;Los horizontes m&aacute;s solitarios del mundo&quot; es la historia de Jack, un joven de 13 a&ntilde;os como cualquier otro que una ma&ntilde;ana, antes de que su familia despierte, se escapa de casa con la mochila al hombro. Jack no es en rigor un personaje contempor&aacute;neo en tanto que la narraci&oacute;n tiene lugar en los a&ntilde;os 1980s, pero el autor lo hace as&iacute; para hacer coincidir ciertos sucesos hist&oacute;ricos el argumento. El joven se interna por un bosque en donde lo sorprende la noche, pero con la luz del d&iacute;a sus pasos lo encaminan a un peque&ntilde;o puerto de la costa del sur de Inglaterra - un lugar muy cercano a su casa - en donde tiene<br />la oportunidad de contemplar en todo su esplendor un viejo nav&iacute;o restaurado que, despu&eacute;s se entera, hace escala ah&iacute; para<br />aprovisionarse. Sabiendo que no tiene nada que perder, y con menos &aacute;nimo que nunca de regresar a su casa, el joven se sube al barco escondido en una caja de provisiones y de esa forma empieza la mayor aventura de su vida.<br />Como todas las historias sobre adolescentes, los horizontes m&aacute;s solitarios del mundo es una novela sobre el crecimiento, sobre el descubrimiento y sobre el proceso de hacer frente a dificultades extraordinarias, para encontrar al final del cuento a un personaje transformado, que poco tiene que ver con el que iniciamos la novela. El encanto de &quot;Los horizontes&quot; son las atm&oacute;sferas perfectamente descritas, su capacidad para hacernos sentir, mediante su prosa, en medio de los lugares m&aacute;s remotos de la tierra, la cercan&iacute;a con el peligro en cada vuelta de sus p&aacute;ginas, y el saber poner al lector el suficiente n&uacute;mero de trampas para que lo inesperado sea la norma y el desenlace sea al mismo tiempo sorpresivo y cl&aacute;sico.<br />Con la combinaci&oacute;n de todo ello nos queda la certeza de que es perfectamente posible que un adolescente de nuestros d&iacute;as, por un fant&aacute;stica conincidencia de sucesos, pueda vivir una historia como las que nos contaron Salgari o Robert Louis Stevenson.	2003-04-01
US	53046320	R1JGK872EU30GR	1587360462	859280736	Los horizontes más solitarios del mundo	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Travesía hacia los horizontes más solitarios del mundo	&quot;Los horizontes más solitarios del mundo&quot; es la historia de Jack, un joven de 13 años como cualquier otro que una mañana, antes de que su familia despierte, se escapa de casa con la mochila al hombro. Jack no es en rigor un personaje contemporáneo en tanto que la narración tiene lugar en los años 1980s, pero el autor lo hace así para hacer coincidir ciertos sucesos históricos el argumento. El joven se interna por un bosque en donde lo sorprende la noche, pero con la luz del día sus pasos lo encaminan a un pequeño puerto de la costa del sur de Inglaterra - un lugar muy cercano a su casa - en donde tiene <BR>la oportunidad de contemplar en todo su esplendor un viejo navío restaurado que, después se entera, hace escala ahí para<BR>aprovisionarse. Sabiendo que no tiene nada que perder, y con menos ánimo que nunca de regresar a su casa, el joven se sube al barco escondido en una caja de provisiones y de esa forma empieza la mayor aventura de su vida. <br />Como todas las historias sobre adolescentes, los horizontes más solitarios del mundo es una novela sobre el crecimiento, sobre el descubrimiento y sobre el proceso de hacer frente a dificultades extraordinarias, para encontrar al final del cuento a un personaje transformado, que poco tiene que ver con el que iniciamos la novela. El encanto de &quot;Los horizontes&quot; son las atmósferas perfectamente descritas, su capacidad para hacernos sentir, mediante su prosa, en medio de los lugares más remotos de la tierra, la cercanía con el peligro en cada vuelta de sus páginas, y el saber poner al lector el suficiente número de trampas para que lo inesperado sea la norma y el desenlace sea al mismo tiempo sorpresivo y clásico. <br />Con la combinación de todo ello nos queda la certeza de que es perfectamente posible que un adolescente de nuestros días, por un fantástica conincidencia de sucesos, pueda vivir una historia como las que nos contaron Salgari o Robert Louis Stevenson.	2002-01-28
US	53046320	REEXGGDPU91RN	0060616296	892454134	The Historical Jesus: The Life of a Mediterranean Jewish Peasant	Books	3	29	46	N	N	A mediterranean jewish peasant	Crossan presents us his idea of the historical Jesus, beginning with a wonderful, though extremely dense analysis of first century Palestine and Mediterranean people in general. The first half of the book actually reads like an historical treaty about ancient history of the middle east, and actually doesn't even mention the name of Jesus once. A good dose of patience is therefore required.<br />Now, if Crossan's analitic abilities are impressive, his interpretaion of the historical Jesus, based on very controversial assumptions, to say the least, is rather shaky; at times he frankly looks biased.<br />Crossan would have us believe that the late &quot;Gospel of Peter&quot; predates the four canonical gospels, that Q actually existed in the form he imagines, that our Gospel of John is dependant on the synoptics and that the gnostic Gospel of Thomas is much earlier than Mark. Trival and unimportant as these assumptions may seem at first sight, they are essential for Crossan's analysis, so much that the absence of a couple of those would invalidate his conclusions.<br />It's a good book, but one shouldnt take it too serioulsy.	2001-12-24
US	53046320	R16CB8M207UNKO	1570715866	153412243	101 Myths of the Bible: How Ancient Scribes Invented Biblical History	Books	2	14	31	N	N	A book about Egyptian mythology	The title of this book is somewhat misleading, and it should be called &quot;Egyptian mythology and its relationship to the Bible stories&quot;. If you are interested in this topic, go ahead, it will be a wonderful book. But if you are looking for scientific explanations or archeological discoveries that confirm or deny the biblical stories, if you are looking for facts that justify calling myths to the Old Testament narratives, go find another book.	2001-11-12
US	53046320	RXUBZTEA6Y5YM	006063040X	880996105	The Five Gospels: What Did Jesus Really Say? The Search for the Authentic Words of Jesus	Books	2	6	21	N	N	The Five Gospels: the scholars' arrogance	I see one very positive thing about this book and another negative: the gospels translations presented here are great! They make Jesus sound fresh and authentic(read him saying &quot;okay&quot; to the leper); the stories sound like when you heard them for the first time. One can almost see the landscapes, plus the specific situations are easily understood in a modern context. The scholars of the Jesus Seminar say it's the best possible and most accurate translation. Okay, they scored a good point here.<br />The problem comes when they have the arrogance to determine which sayings are authentic and which ones are pious stories. Sometimes it looks like their true agenda is to dismiss all of the gospels as unathentic (the Gospel of John has only one, ONE authentic saying in their oppinion, and it's one with parallels in the synoptics). Why in the &quot;scholars'&quot; oppinion most of Jesus sayings are unauthentic? Why do they say they were invented many years after he died? Because, in principle, they messed up and basically broke their most important rule (as they themselves defined it): &quot;Beware of finding a Jesus entirely congenial to you&quot;. Throughout the book these folks do just that: try to prove their idea of Jesus as an itinerant sage, whose sayings were characterized by exaggeration, humor and paradox, but no more.<br />If you want to read a good book about Jesus, I recommend &quot;On being a Christian&quot; by Hans Kung.	2001-09-11
US	53046320	R2Q5PEQX1FCUOD	0316038857	786749071	It Ain't No Sin to Be Glad You're Alive : The Promise of Bruce Springsteen	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A man for its time	More than a biography, this book is more a long essay about the cultural significance of the music of Bruce Springsteen and its far reaching - almost religious - impact on audiences: how Bruce was perceived during the Born to run era, the infamous Time &amp; Newsweek's covers, the hype, the ups of downs of the eighties and the final, successful come back tour. Bruce has always been - except during the Lucky Town/Human Touch episode - a critical success if not always a sales success, and many quotes from rock critics are added to prove the point, and the author does not hide his love for Springsteen's work, but his views are always well-centered.<br />But the greatest value of this Alterman's work is perhaps the solid interpretation he makes of the albums and the songs. He has helped me see his music and each album under a new light and, must I say it, only deepened my admiration for the Boss.	2001-04-27
US	53046320	R2R3IAW9JC118C	0385492103	583026301	El Anatomista: Novela (Spanish Edition)	Books	2	6	9	N	N	Una novela que nunca alcanza a despegar	El anatomista es uno de esos raros libros en los que la informaci&oacute;n de la cuarta de forros es m&aacute;s interesante y se encuentra mejor escrita que el libro en s&iacute; mismo. El gui&oacute;n es ingenioso, y recuerda lejanamente a &quot;El perfume&quot; de Patrick Suskind, pero donde Suskind acierta en la descripci&oacute;n de los ambientes de la &eacute;poca, el detallado dibujo de los personajes y sus obsesiones, y sobre todo, en la elegancia de la narraci&oacute;n, Federico Andahazi fracasa, al leerse su libro b&aacute;sicamente como un gui&oacute;n de cine inacabado, con tres o m&aacute;s estilos narrativos entremezclados. No hay transportaci&oacute;n del lector a la Venecia del siglo XVI, no hay buen manejo de la intriga (el final es predecible) y no hay tampoco ese ritmo trepidante que caracteriza a las grandes novelas.<br />Al final, la obra fracasa en distintos niveles, y nos queda una sensaci&oacute;n como que Federico Andahazi le dio vueltas y vueltas a una sola idea que ten&iacute;a en mente, pero sin un desenlace satisfactorio.	2001-03-14
US	53046320	R3VW0E8PDXIS0R	0711979170	432400847	The Bee Gees: Tales of the Brothers Gibb	Books	4	26	30	N	N	The Bee Gees: success, fall and redemption.	Tales of the Brothers Gibb achieves its purpose, being a great bio-graphy about the life of a family dedicated to music, a journalistic account of their sharp &quot;up and downs&quot; in the public's preferences and final, long-awaited redemption, when a new generation of fans and artists, who never danced their hits on discos, decided that they were a legend.<br />The book fails to deliver, though, one of the promises made in the first pages, where the authors state that the main focus will be in the musical aspect of their lives. There is not that much discussion about the chords, harmonies, musical significance of their works or a detailed anylisis of the great albums, as it should be. The Bee Gees are, after all, more about music than anything else.<br />But that shouldn't stop us from enjoying a good biography or even from learning many, many facts about the music, about the way it was made, about the historical context that gave birth to Odessa or Main Course. I can only begin to imagine now what a song like &quot;Really and Sincerely&quot; must mean to Robin. Or Robert Stigwood's insane obsession with the Beatles, which the Brothers Gibb suffered too and still suffer. A very unhealthy obsession that led them to make unforgivable mistakes like their Sgt. Pepper movie and album.<br />The book is also too &quot;clean&quot; because the Bee Gees always appear like saints, and I somehow suspect they are not. The part dedicated to Australian years is too long and the final stage of their career (1981 and up) is too short, but I enjoyed the book a lot anyway.<br />And it gives us all a very important lesson: No matter how bad it looks, be always like the Bee Gees and never give up.	2001-02-04
US	53046320	R6VSZF052Z51S	0805033106	74514381	Peanuts Every Sunday (Peanuts Classics)	Books	5	10	14	N	N	You're a fanatic and you're losing your mind, Charlie Brown!	Remember when Snoopy was just a crazy dog? No tennis playing, no Second World War scenes... Remember the old gang? In those days, there were only Charlie Brown, Linus, Lucy, Schroeder, PigPen and those two little snakes, Patty and Violet. This 130 page collection of strips from 1958 to 1961 offers enough drama and laughing for several days!<br />For some reason, I find the old peanuts strips more interesting, touching, fun and heart breaking than the latest ones. And this book showed me why. Listen to the kids insult, criticize, philosophize and make sarcasms of each other. Look at the personal dispute of Snoopy against Linus's blanket, see Sally as a little baby and Charlie Brown's kite explode in the air (yes, explode :)  This has to be the funniest and most complete collection of blanket-chasing and kite-flying episodes. Thank you, Sparky!	2000-11-30
US	53046320	R3V7P8NGLUM9O8	0805028927	739839034	You're the Guest of Honor, Charlie Brown (Peanuts Classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	You're a good camp president, Mr. Sack!	This book has IMHO one of the most brilliant Peanuts episodes the late Charles Schultz ever wrote. Charlie Brown puts a brown bag on his head to cover a rash and goes to the summer camp with his head and face covered. Guess what! Baptized as Mr Sack by the other kids, he becomes camp president and a hero. A mask is enough to turn a loser into a hero, Schultz seems to say in this story, but also, that people will believe anything they need to believe. If everybody says Mr. Sack is the best camp president ever, they will accept that. And then Charlie Brown takes off the bag...<br />Also, Woodstock organizes a New Year's party and Snoopy makes a terrible mistake; Rerun makes his first appearances, Charlie Brown's baseball team finally wins a game and the gang organizes a testimonial dinner for him. Guess who is invited too: Joe Shlabotnik!	2000-11-20
US	53046320	R3PM1BJT4DB5JY	0914457179	450145030	Prove It All Night!: The Bruce Springsteen Trivia Book	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The albums, the tours and other little facts about The Boss	Think you know everything about the Boss? Think twice! Deborah Mayer, a New York girl enamored of Springsteen's music since she was a teenager, has put together, in the form of questionnaires, a collection of little known facts and anecdotes about the Boss. It's worth mentioning also that there are several b&amp;w pictures in the book that I at least have never seen in other sources. What I liked most about it, though, was the brief but striking introduction by the author, recalling how her own life was related to Bruce Springsteen's tours and albums, and after that, the disillusionment of watching his heroe fade away. I hope Deborah was able to see the E Street Band in their come back and farewell (?) tour this year. I am sure that she, as we all Springsteen fans, smiled again.	2000-11-05
US	53046320	RAD7TVGXPCOVC	0836218515	183687804	The PreHistory of The Far Side:: A 10th Anniversary Exhibit	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Inside the mind of Gary Larson	The Far Side is the comic strip that makes animals look like humans and humans look like animals! And if you enjoy Gary Larson's bizarre sense of humor, just wait til you see the strips that never saw the public light. What could be better than this anthology of never-before-seen, rejected cartoons and unpublished sketches, born out of the author's mind, late at night, &quot;when I'm working and mental fatigue starts to take over&quot;, as he explains himself in the introduction of one sketchbook sampler.<br />Live the experience of having Gary Larson himself explain one particular sample of his work during three full pages, one which was never understood by the readers of its the time, and find out that the explanation is far more simpler than was thought at first. It's clear that this guy likes to laugh at life as much as he likes to laugh at his faithful readers! Who cares as long as we laugh our brains out in the process?	2000-10-29
US	53046320	R28ZD76CLUEIC1	9682944767	418867309	Aguascalientes en los noventas: Estrategias para el cambio (Contemporáneos) (Spanish Edition)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A thorough study of Aguascalientes in the 90s	This book is a collection of essays about the state of Aguascalientes, located in Mexico. It is by no means a turistic guide, but twelve essays divided in three parts: economic choices and dilemmas; social challenges and finally environmental and urban challenges. These essays were put together in 1992 when the state was facing a change in its government and was entering a new era marked by more economic, social and political development. Although not all essays are well-written (example: chapter Ten, dedicated to legal issues) the book can be of interest for another state or a region of similar development (like in Asia or Latin America), as it explores topics that are common to all developing mid-sized cities.	2000-10-18
US	53046320	RIPCYIQ5I0P84	1569713448	516725989	Comics: Between the Panels	Books	3	6	14	N	N	Too anecdotic, too unbalanced	500 pages and 670 illustrations about comics might seem like a good deal for comic lovers, but think again before you invest in this encyclopedic volume, unless you have an obsession for details and writers of the 30s. <br />No matter if you know a little about every Marvel, DC, EC and Image Comic book ever published, you will still find plenty of information about rare titles and anecdotic situations of the industry you never heard before. That on the positive side. On the negative side, it is not very encouraging to read only 50 or so pages about your favorite topics, and spend the rest of the book learning about rare cult titles and &quot;legend&quot; writers. <br />Also, the book is a little or too much unbalanced. There are six pages, four illustrations and two text boxes devoted to the story of mile high comics. On the other side, there is less than one page dedicated to The Fantastic Four, one of the key titles to understand comic book history. Spider Man is mentioned only nine times in 500 pages, while Frank Frazetta (who?) appears 46 times. Jimmy Hendrix is mentioned one time. <br />Good for a library. Too much detail for the average reader.	2000-10-17
US	53046320	R19V0IYUE4WQV3	1569713448	516725989	Comics: Between the Panels	Books	3	2	7	N	N	Too anecdotic, too unbalanced	500 pages and 670 illustrations about comics might seem like a good deal for comic lovers, but think again before you invest in this encyclopedic volume, unless you have an obsession for details and writers of the 30s.<br />No matter if you know a little about every Marvel, DC, EC and Image Comic book ever published, you will still find plenty of information about rare titles and anecdotic situations of the industry you never heard before. That on the positive side. On the negative side, it is not very encouraging to read only 50 or so pages about your favorite topics, and spend the rest of the book learning about rare cult titles and &quot;legend&quot; writers.<br />Also, the book is a little or too much unbalanced. There are six pages, four illustrations and two text boxes devoted to the story of mile high comics. On the other side, there is less than one page dedicated to The Fantastic Four, one of the key titles to understand comic book history. Spider Man is mentioned only nine times in 500 pages, while Frank Frazetta (who?) appears 46 times. Jimmy Hendrix is mentioned one time.<br />Good for a library. Too much detail for the average reader.	2000-10-17
US	53046320	R1XMQ4BMHAN9Q3	1892597004	397982582	1: The Collected Strangers In Paradise	Books	4	3	7	N	N	A very amusing reading!	This book collects the original 3-issue series of Stangers in Paradise, a black and white independent comic written and drawn by then unknown Terry Moore. It's an urban story about one deeply emotional and temperamental polish girl named Katchoo, a naive and sweet gal named Francine and a young boy David. Their lives are blended together and the result is... surprising. There are no superheroes in this book, but you will find all the emotions of the human spectre: pain, anger, lust, love, hate. The story is so original and interesting that one thing can be said about Strangers in Paradise: it can be enjoyed by people who dont read comic books.<br />Too bad that the spark didnt last much, as Terry Moore went on to write predictable and cliched second and third parts of this story. My advise: buy this one and dont waste your time buying the others.	2000-10-08
US	53046320	R5UF4ROR4TPNK	0140245480	245442817	The Red Queen: Sex and the Evolution of Human Nature	Books	5	171	189	N	N	Dramatic and surprising	&quot;Men and women have different minds - says Matt Ridley in one of the central chapters of his book-. The differences are the direct result of evolution. Women's minds (and bodies, as he states in a previous pharagraph) evolved to suit the demands of beraring and rearing children and of gathering plant and food. Men's minds (and bodies) evolved to suit the demands of rising in a male hierarchy, fighting over women and providing meat to a family&quot;.<br />To arrive to this and other conclusions, Ridley goes a long and difficult way through biology, genetics and continents, starting with a basic  question: why is there sex at all? After all, many species reproduce without it. The first three or four chapters of &quot;The Red Queen&quot; may be a little onerous, but apparently they are necessary to support the last ones.<br />This is a book about evolution with a focus on human sexuality and the human mind. Everything on humans - our bodies, our behavior towards the opposite sex, even our minds and social rules - is a direct result of a process called sexual selection that allows the reproduction of the fittest, therefore transmiting their genes to the next generations.<br />When answering why there is sex at all and how men and women's bodies and minds evolved in the last million years, we come to many uncomfortable truths about adultery, rape, incest and life. Why do more rich men marry beautiful women and not the other way around? Why have the attempts to sell pornogrphy to women and romantic novels to men failed? And above all this: why did evolution produce different minds in men a women?<br />Take all of the above and pack it with a red cover, and you have one of the most amazing readings of the year.	2000-09-30
US	53046320	R29FTBUHB15WVP	0380976196	347221724	Bruce Springsteen: Songs	Books	2	8	10	N	N	Not much to read	There is very little a Springsteen fan can enjoy, learn or read by buying this book. Basically, it consists of all the lyrics of every album packed in a rather expensive and heavy book. But the lyrics are in the albums  themselves, and even those from the second album (which didnt contain them  originally) can be easily found on the net. The pictures are few and the  written pages are not many. I read the whole book in a couple of hours. I  was disappointed because I like to read and I was expecting many days in  company of the Boss and his comments about his songs.<br />I dont see much  sense in printing the lyrics of Bobby Jean (to put an example) first with  Bruce's own handwriting in a full page, and then the same lyrics type  written on the next page... and so on, album after album. Only some brief  notes by The Boss at the beginning of each album. So you better go and buy  a book about the Boss that can actually be READ.	2000-07-06
US	53046320	R2G4Q5IMDXX2MR	9682707757	499964218	El seductor de la patria (Narradores Contemporaneos) (Spanish Edition)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	El m&aacute;s odiado (y mal valorado) de la historia mexicana	Enrique Serna nos ofrece un relato disfrutable, minucioso y dram&aacute;tico de la vida de uno de los mexicanos m&aacute;s odiados e incomprendidos de la historia: Antonio Lopez de Santa Anna.  Es interesante notar que aunque en  la presentaci&oacute;n, Serna nos aclara que se trata de una novela hist&oacute;rica y  que naturalmente tiene su buena dosis de fantas&iacute;a, el orden y significado  de los acontecimientos, gratamente, resulta fiel a la historia.<br />Antonio  Lopez de Santa Anna es aqu&iacute; como el ser humano, el esposo, el presidente,  el buitre y el h&eacute;roe del P&aacute;nuco, en toda su grandeza y vileza, el hombre  odiado y amado alternativamente, resultado de su situaci&oacute;n hist&oacute;rica y de  las propias intrigas que lo rodean.<br />Pero contra lo que pueda pensarse,  en el M&eacute;xico decimon&oacute;nico en que abundan los pillos y los oportunistas,  Santa Anna es, acaso, el primer apasionado por esa se&ntilde;ora caprichosa  llamada patria. Serna combina con gran destreza escenas de la vida  sentimental y familiar de Santa Anna - la acritud de su joven y segunda  esposa, su afici&oacute;n por los gallos - con escenas desgarradoras de sus dos  batallas m&aacute;s famosas, que a la vez, son los dos extremos que recorre su  suerte militar: El Alamo y la Angostura. Los saldos son muy distintos a lo  que se pueda pensarse.<br />Al terminar de leer esta biograf&iacute;a, puede no  quedarnos claro el motivo que impuls&oacute; a Santa Anna a ser una constante  convulsi&oacute;n nacional desde el fin de la Colonia hasta inicios del Porfiriato  (un tiempo sorprendentemente largo). Lo que no nos queda duda, es de que el  seductor de la patria est&aacute; lejos, muy lejos de ser el traidor que el  juarismo se empe&ntilde;&oacute; en hacernos creer que era.	2000-06-23
US	53046320	R38VNQ0B9QQL27	0553572997	501395694	The Alienist	Books	2	10	16	N	N	Dont waste your time	I borrowed The alienist from a friend and I am glad I did. Not because the book was any good, but because I didnt have to pay for it. The cover photograph is beautiful, the font is nice to read and the hype was  incredible. Great advertising campaign. And then you get to read the  book... I know this is a first novel by Caleb Carr, but it would appear  that this novel was written as if made to order. &quot;Hey Caleb, please  write 1,245 pages, exactly... I dont care if you can tell the story in less  words. In page 48, please enter the worst murder you can imagine.. ah, and  please, be nasty. That sells.&quot; See what I mean? The story doesnt come  natural. It's like everyone is trying to convince you that you have a great  book in your hands, especially the author, and you simply never understand  why. Unless you dont want to appear dumb and prefer to go with the crowd,  and read the whole book in a thousand painful nights and lie when they ask  you for an oppinion. Actually, I couldnt finish the book. No, dont think I  didnt read the final chapter. I cheated. I jumped to the next-to-the last  chapter. And the end is sooooooo clich&eacute;. Dont waste your time.	2000-02-29
US	53046320	R2LKFAJQFIBB9G	0912333448	67532815	The U.S.-Mexican War	Books	5	26	31	N	N	A gift to the view !	This is a GREAT book, probably one of the few truly balanced views about the controversial war between the US and Mexico. It puts away many misconceptions and even myths on both sides, always increasing the reader's  interest. The illustrations are simply AMAZING (many of them in color, a  gift to the view after a day's work). We can even find some photographs of  the troops in Mexican land, undoubtedly one of the very first examples of  war photography.<br />I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in  knowing what truly happened and anyone wanting to make a serious approach  to the events of 1946-47.	1999-10-19
US	53046320	R3K0ESRDZ9TWK	1896522351	43974121	Black Diamond: The Unauthorized Biography of Kiss	Books	3	5	7	N	N	This writer is not a kiss fan obviously	Black Diamond is a detailed account of the group's activities trough history, but the author gets lost with frequency in boring details of interest only to maniacs, I might think, like how many bands was a band member's brother's lover's friend in, or the super detailed solo career of Mark St. John before and after Kiss. (Who is he anyway?)  Maybe the author of Black Diamond was trying to be very critic and unbiased when he wrote the book, but he ends up being a headache. You get the feeling from page 1 that the group is a bunch of losers who never had a hit or a good time in their career. Dale Sherman seems to hate one and every record of the band after Alive, and he doesn't explain why, because he is so busy trying to put every boring business detail in it that he forgets to talk about the most important thing: the music.  I haven't read a good book about the band yet.	1998-02-11
