US	53057371	R1DVGE364ZJV2D	0521853575	581481166	Odysseus Unbound: The Search for Homer's Ithaca	Books	4	34	34	N	Y	A detailed presentation of a plausible theory	Robert Bittlestone's \\"Odysseus Unbound\\" is a massive book, nearly 600 pages filled with excellent illustrations (maps, photographs, aerial photographs, satellite images) and a highly detailed narrative explaining the development of and evidence for the author's theory: that Homeric Age Ithaca, the kingdom of Odysseus, was not located on the modern island of Ithaki, but instead on the western peninsula of the nearby island of Cephalonia.  The evidence presented is complex, involving literary sources, geology, and archaeology, but a critical portion of the author's argument is whether in Homeric times this western peninsula was separated from Cephalonia by a sea channel since closed up by earthquake-induced rockfalls.<br /><br />Although Bittlestone is \\"only\\" an enthusiastic amateur, his research has been reviewed and backed by his professional co-authors, one a professor of Greek and Latin and the other a geologist specializing in the Ionian island area.<br /><br />I find Bittlesone's analysis to be persuasive, but as yet -- and he recognizes this -- the evidence is not wholly conclusive.  This may come in the next several years with additional geological work to confirm the existence of the sea channel and with archaeological surveys to study various associated sites.	2005-10-12
US	53057371	R28V8ODVLZF0Z2	0060872675	471104566	Where's My Cow?	Books	4	121	126	N	N	An addendum for Discworld fans	\\"Where's My Cow?\\" is a companion book to Terry Pratchett's latest Discworld novel, \\"Thud!\\".  Or, rather, it is three books in one.  It is the children's book that his grace the Duke of Ankh-Morpork Sir Samuel Vimes, Commander of the Ankh-Morpork City Watch, reads without fail every evening to his son, young Sam.  And it is the book that Sam Vimes turns the children's story into (after all, why should a city child be read tales about moo-cows and oink-pigs when there are critters like Foul Ole Ron and Coffin' Henry he is much more likely to encounter?).  And surrounding these, it is fundamentally a book about Sam Vimes reading a book to his son, a sweet tale of a complex man trying to be a good father.  There is enough self-referentiation in this very slender volume to make a post-modern literary critic dizzy and gibber about meta-fiction and meta-meta-fiction.  For the Pratchett/Discworld fan, there are a least a few treasures hidden in the illustrations -- such as that portrait of a bearded, black-hatted gentleman on the wall of young Sam's room.  And what is that medal worn by Foul Ole Ron?  Bugrit!	2005-10-04
US	53057371	R11S6Z3EW7HLBL	1886778574	696426138	Once More with Footnotes	Books	4	31	32	N	Y	A must for Discworld fans	\\"Once More*  *with footnotes\\" is a collection of short stories, essays, book introductions, etc., by Terry Pratchett.  Not all the material by any means is Discworld-related, but some of it is (two of the short stories -- \\"The Sea and Little Fishes\\" with Granny Weatherwax and \\"Troll Bridge\\" with Cohen the Barbarian -- fall into the \\"must-read\\" category for Discworld fans) and everything is fired with the particular Pratchett brand of humor (\\"Hollywood Chickens\\" may not answer fully the age-old question of why the chicken crossed the road, but it certain provides an unusual perspective of \\"how\\" it crossed).	2005-10-04
US	53057371	R3BCQ0YNPTNXJ2	0399153233	185341384	School Days (Spenser Mystery)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Vintage Spenser	Susan's out of town at a conference.  Hawk isn't around.  Spenser is alone.  Except for Pearl the Wonder Dog.  A rich old lady hires Spenser to prove that her grandson isn't guilty of a Columbine-style school shooting.  But the co-shooter has fingered the grandson as his accomplice.  And the grandson has confessed.  Tough case.  But Spenser is a tough detective.  And he does what he does best: digging and wisecracking and ticking people off.  And beating them up when they try to out-tough him.  Nobody out-toughs Spenser.<br /><br />Perhaps the most solid Spenser novels in the past several years.	2005-09-30
US	53057371	R1RXOIUVWFPOND	0060815221	379004211	Thud! A Novel of Discworld	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Top notch Pratchett	\\"Thud!\\" -- the sound a club makes when hitting a head -- is a Sam Vimes novel, following very much in the path laid down by \\"The Fifth Elephant\\" and \\"Nightwatch\\", a darker novel than \\"Going Postal\\" (the last Discworld novel), but very satisfying.  His Grace, Sir Samuel Vimes, the Duke of Ankh-Morpork (but still plain old Sam Vimes, copper, in his own mind) is Terry Pratchett's primary spokesman when it comes to matters of justice and tolerance.  Vimes may feel disquiet when dealing with werewolves and the undead and he absolutely loathes vampires, but that does not stop him from believing that everyone -- every thing -- in Ankh-Morpork has the right of life, liberty, and the pursuit of all the happiness you can pry from the greedy grasp of fate.<br /><br />The principal cast of \\"Thud!\\" are the men, women, and creatures of the City Watch, along with Vimes's won family (his wife Sybil and Young Sam), and the story centers upon a good mystery -- who killed the chief grag of the deep-dweller dwarfs of Ankh-Morpork?  The dwarfs, naturally, suspect a troll.  And we get to learn a good deal about the religion and cultural lives of dwarfs and trolls along the way to solving the crime.  We catch glimpses from time to time of various familiar characters as Lord Vetinari, the Librarian, Mustrum Ridcully, and Death.<br /><br />I couldn't recommend \\"Thud!\\" as any reader's first introduction to Discworld, but it is a first-rate continuation of the series.	2005-09-19
US	53057371	R2XE3T4WHGGGI6	0691121648	305282328	Plows, Plagues, and Petroleum: How Humans Took Control of Climate	Books	5	90	99	N	N	This book is NOT about global warming.	This book is NOT about global warming. At least, not directly about the global warming of the Industrial Age over which extremists from both environmental and industry/government groups loudly wrangle about.  Ruddiman's theme is global warming beginning far earlier -- 8000 years earlier.  His expertise is in paleoclimatology, study of the climate in long-past eras.  He presents a very persuasive case that starting about 8000 years ago, an increased \\"unnatural\\" output of carbon dioxide from early human agricultural endeavors began to measurably effect the earth's climate (with the effect intensified a few thousand years later by increased methane emissions from rice farming). It is Ruddiman's conclusion, very clearly presented and well supported with evidence, that this \\"extra\\" carbon dioxide has offset the \\"normal\\" global cooling that otherwise would have ended the present comfortable \\"interglacial\\" period and plunged us once again into an era of heavy glaciation.  In short, into yet another Ice Age.<br /><br />Ruddiman's work challenges us to jettison many comfortable myths, among them being that \\"Mother Earth\\" is naturally a stable benign guardian and that pre-industrial humans lived in some idyllic, low impact manner.<br /><br />Like \\"Guns, Germs and Steel\\", this is a book that has fundamentally changed my perception of the distant past.  It is both an important book and a book that makes for fascinating reading.  I can scarcely recommend it too much.  My advice: Buy it.  Read it.  Think about it.	2005-08-31
US	53057371	R15FT127VFHUOS	0151012164	656820452	Fiddlers: A Novel of the 87th Precinct (87th Precinct Mysteries)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Fiddlers is pure gold	Fiddlers is the latest (and, given the recent death of author Ed McBain, presumably the last) of the remarkable series of \\"87th Precinct\\" police procedural novels -- more than fifty books published over a period of fifty years.  The usual cast of detective characters is here:  Steve Carella, Meyer Meyer, Kling, Brown, Parker and even Fat Ollie Weeks.  And as has been the focus of the last several 87th Precinct novels, the story is as much about their personal lives as about the crimes they investigate.  There is a serial killer on the loose, but a serial killer murdering at a furious pace -- a new victim every few days, two bullets fired into the face.  But what connects the victims?  A blind violinist, a cosmetic sales rep, a college professor, a retired priest ...  \\"Fiddlers\\" in the end is about relationships.  Beginning relationships, ending relationships, relationships too fleeting to have a proper beginning or ending, destructive relationships, redemptive relationship.<br /><br />If this is indeed the final 87th Precinct novel, then it was a fine note on which to end the symphony.	2005-08-31
US	53057371	R2HEXU9YQCVBOH	1594160139	731029747	Year of the Hangman: George Washington's Campaign Against the Iroquois	Books	5	62	64	N	N	A detailed account of a neglected part of the American Revolution	The book's title (\\"Hangman\\" is a reference to the supposed resemblance of the numerals \\"1777\\" to a line of gallows), perhaps chosen for its dramatic sound, is somewhat misleading.  Williams's book deals with a broader time period than this single year and, indeed, its climactic focus is upon events of 1779.  \\"The Year of the Hangman\\" surveys the history of the war between the Iroquois (or, at least those tribes and bands allied with the British) and the Americans during the Revolution, primarily sparked by the British desire to divert American attention during their 1777 drive to split the Colonies apart with Burgoyne's thrust south from Canada.  Although the activities of George Rogers Clark further west today still retain some fame, the fighting carried out in 1778 and 1779 by other American soldiers in upper New York and western Pennsylvania has been largely forgotten.  It is perhaps difficult today to conceive that during the Revolution, the Finger Lakes region of New York was the stronghold of Indian forces that presented a real threat to the well-being of the infant American Republic.  Williams's book aims to set the historical record right.  He presents a persuasive case that Major General John Sullivan and other soldiers of the Continental Army, under George Washington's direction, achieved a substantial strategic victory in 1779, effectively ending any serious menace from such tribes as the Mohawks and Senecas, bringing a close to the power and unity of the famous \\"Six Nations,\\" and allowing Washington to concentrate upon British regular forces further east for the rest of the war.<br /><br />The book is nicely illustrated with period engravings and woodcuts.  My only criticism is that the maps are too few and too small to depict complex events occurring over such a broad expanse of territory.	2005-07-16
US	53057371	R1C8PJZSMU6W98	0810992108	248082457	Visions of Mars	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Picture postcards from a very distant shore	\\"Visions of Mars\\" is filled with astounding images of Mars, most of them photographs taken by the Viking, Pathfinder, Spirit, and Opportunity lander missions, some by the Mars orbiters, and others created by computers based upon orbital laser data.  Almost all of them are colored according to the best interpretation of what Mars would look like to the human eye (in general, the photographs are constructed from black-and-white images made with color filters, then layered together).  We get to see the salmon-pink of the Martian sky and the coppery dust that covers the planet.  Many of the orbital images show canyons that dwarf anything to be found on earth,  Along the visual journey, the text explains the latest findings and thinking regarding the questions about water on Mars and the possibility of life there.	2005-07-08
US	53057371	R3OPKYZHNCGN0D	0892968028	978532593	Watch Your Back! (Dortmunder Novels)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Dortmunder is back!	Dortmunder and his gang of not very threatening (or competent) thieves is back, and the good news is that \\"Watch Your Back\\" is a welcome improvement over the rather flat \\"Road to Ruin\\".  This time, the planned heist is a raid on an art-filled penthouse apartment whose owner is temporarily absent, hiding from an army of ex-wives.  Like so many Dortmunder victims, he is so despicable that the reader cannot hope that he does get robbed.  But, as usual, there are complications.  In this case, the main complication is that the Dortmunder gang's favorite bar and meeting place has been taken over by the Mob and looks to become extinct in the near future, meaning that the gang may have to resort to holding planning sessions in Dortmunder's livining room, and nobody wants that.  So, first, Dortmunder and his friends must find a way to thwart the Mob and save the bar.  And in the end, everything comes together in a complex, not entirely expected, and satisfying conclusion.<br /><br />\\"Watch Your Back!\\" may not be quite the equal of \\"The Hot Rock\\" or \\"The Bank Shot\\", but it nonetheless is another funny romp on the wrong side of the law.	2005-07-05
US	53057371	R3PGIKCDT2W35S	0393060500	895998750	The Command of the Ocean: A Naval History of Britain, 1649­-1815	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A grand history of a great maritime history	NAM Rodger's name is already well-known to students of the Royal Navy during the great age of sail, particularly for his \\"The Wooden World\\".  His \\"The Command of the Ocean\\" is a superlative history of the Royal Navy during its rise to dominance at sea and of its period of greatest achievement and glory -- the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic Wars when it was Britain's primary weapon in the struggle with France.  Besides being a compelling narrative of more than a century and a half of naval history, Rodger's book is also a compendium of detailed information about the Royal Navy as an institution.  Fans of the nautical novels of O'Brian and Forester would do well to read \\"The Command of the Ocean\\" for a more complete understanding of the world in which their fictional heroes lived.	2005-07-04
US	53057371	R1YXFLNFPQWPFO	0807829315	671894881	Field Armies and Fortifications in the Civil War: The Eastern Campaigns, 1861-1864 (Civil War America)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	An exploration of a shadowy corner of Civil War history	In popular perception of Civil War combat, entrenchments were something that came along late in the war when troops, weary of being targets when marching across open fields, took to digging in the earth to find protection.  As Hess amply demonstrates in this new volume, the first of a projected trilogy, entrenchments in fact were an integral part of the Civil War landscape from the earliest months.  He backs his narrative with numerous citations from official and unofficial accounts and he discusses the details of how entrenchments were made (and how they evolved as the war went on).  This volume is an important contribution to understanding how the war was fought and to better fix its place in the continuing development of military theory and technology.	2005-07-04
US	53057371	R10HDPP0T0NHEG	0802714501	297398921	1066: The Hidden History in the Bayeux Tapestry	Books	5	32	33	N	N	Very nearly a stitch by stitch analysis of the Bayeux Tapestry	As Bridgeford carefully explains, of course, the Bayeux Tapestry is really not a tapestry, but instead an embroidery, created something more than 900 years ago to tell the story of, and the story behind, the Battle of Hastings, in which Willaim the Bastard became William the Conqueror of England.  Although the Tapestry is certainly famous, its origins and even the meanings of certain of its embroidered scenes are mysterious.  In this book Bridgeford provides persuasive, if not necessarily final, answers to many of the old questions, including who was the patron who had the Tapestry created (Bridgeford believes it was Count Eustache of Boulogne, as a sort of peace offering to Bishop Odo, William's half-brother, who might have been just a little unhappy after Eustache had attacked the bishop's castle at Dover), who was Aelfgyva and what was she doing with that cleric (Aelfgyva was a rather popular name at the time, but Bridgeford argues that the Tapestry's Aelfgyva was the mother of Norway's Harold Harefoot, a rival contender for the English throne, and it was a reference to an old scandal, made to undermine the legitimacy of Harold's claim), and who the dwarf Turold was (Bridgeford speculates that the horse-holding Turold may have been the artist-designer of the Tapestry and the author of the famous Chanson de Roland).  This is a book worth reading about one of the great art treasures of Europe and about one of the critical turning points of European history.	2005-07-04
US	53057371	R3NBTZO0KKG2IO	0711030251	34600918	Red Sabbath: The Battle of Little Bighorn	Books	4	8	10	N	N	A very good summary of the Little Big Horn campaign	My compliments to Robert Kershaw for writing a short but comprehensive -- and well-reasoned -- study of one of the most controversial episodes in American military history: the Battle of the Little Big Horn.  I don't know that Kershaw has pioneered any particularly startling new interpretations of the battle, but he has synthesized a solid account of the battle, enlivened by focusing his narrative at many points upon individual experiences, drawn from both white and Indian primary sources.  I think it can be well appreciated by someone as yet unfamiliar with the intricacies of the Little Big Horn affair, yet it still offers food for thought for those of us who have spent years pondering those events.	2005-07-03
US	53057371	R1L38ABWEZJZXN	0892968125	656801711	Scandal Takes a Holiday:  A Marcus Didius Falco Mystery Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Amusing, lightweight look at Imperial Rome	\\"Scadal Takes a Holiday\\" is the latest of Lindsey Davis's chronicles of the \\"informer\\" Marcus Didius Falco of the first century AD Rome -- sort of a hardboiled detective in a toga (although Falco doesn't really like wearing a toga).  This adventure takes him to port of Ostia downriver from Rome, seeking for a scandalsheet writer who has disappered.  As usual, his family proves more troublesome (and maybe more dangerous) than the criminals he encounters. Although Davis's characters perhaps lack the depth and subtlety of those of Steven Saylor (author of a series of mysteries set in first century BCE Rome), the Falco books nonetheless are well researched and provide authentic glimpses into the politics and culture of early Imperial Rome.	2005-07-03
US	53057371	RVMJXVEWW5GT2	015100403X	829827324	The Pirates Laffite: The Treacherous World of the Corsairs of the Gulf	Books	5	2	8	N	N	A clear-eyed look into an era usually obscured by legend	The brothers Laffite -- Jean and Pierre -- may not have been quite pirates in the classic tradition of, say, Blackbeard, but they did the best they could in the complex, confusing world of early nineteenth century Louisiana and Texas.  The whole region was one lacking clear boundaries, either geographical or social, ready-made for anyone with an eye on the main chance and willing to risk his life to perhaps make a fortune.  They were privateers flying the flags of dubious, temporary \\"countries\\" preying mainly upon Spanish ships, slave-traders, and whatever else promised to yield a flood of gold and silver,  They were associates of Jim Bowie and Andrew Jackson.  William C. Davis chronicles their lives (both Pierre and Jean died while still rather young) as clearly as anybody can hope to, for they left scant records (as is often the custom with such men).	2005-07-03
US	53057371	R20TY3Y8VOYHNP	1401300030	78737937	The Pirate Coast: Thomas Jefferson, the First Marines, and the Secret Mission of 1805	Books	5	23	24	N	N	A forgotten tale of the early American republic	A US Navy warship goes aground in the territorial waters of a hostil Muslim power, the crew is taken hostage, the President of the US dispatches a secret agent to overthrown the Mulsim leader and free the Americans ...  Another Tom Clancy thriller?  Not, just a history of what happened at the beginning of the nineteenth centry when the USS Philadelphia grounded in the harbor of Tripoli on the Barbary Coast, the officers and crews made prisoners, and Tom Jefferson sent former US Army Captain William Eaton to North Afric to find a brother of the ruler of Tripoli and support that brother in an attempt to gain the throne and free the Americans.  It involved an incredible march across hundreds of miles of terrible desert with a small \\"army\\" of mercenaries (and eight US Marines), the successful capture of one of Tripoli's main cities, and betrayal of Eaton's mission by the politicians and diplomats.  But in the process Eaton briefly became one of America's first post-Revolutionary military heroes.  He was also a cantakerous, hot-tempered, hard-headed drunk, but nobody's perfect.  Zacks skillfully tells the story of this remarkable adventure (one that was later immortalized by part of the US Marine Corps' hymn), although I wish he had provided few better maps so the action could be more easily traced.	2005-07-03
US	53057371	RPEDH1W56JDGD	0786714379	824855104	Jefferson's Vendetta: The Pursuit of Aaron Burr and the Judiciary	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Truly, "The Trial of the Century"	In the early nineteenth century, former Vice-President Aaron Burr -- the recent killer of Alexander Hamilton in a duel -- was up to something.  Maybe it was an attempt to conquer Spanish Mexico and set up an American empire.  Perhaps it was a plot to separate the western territories (and Kentucky) from the rest of the Union.  Maybe it was both.  Maybe it was neither,  Historians still debate the matter.  But whatever it was, it ended up with Burr on trial for treason, with Chief Justice John Marshall presiding over the trial (and President Thomas Jefferson a behind-the-scenes prosecutor).  Burr was eventually acqutted (probably more for lack of specific evidence and creditable witnesses -- Burr's co-conspirators did not inspire confidence in their own integrity) but it was an extraordinarily dramatic event in the early American Republic.  Wheelan tells it story well, although he is clearly not sympathetic to Jefferson.  I regret to say that Wheelan's accuracy is made suspect by errors he makes:  in the space of four pages Wheelan writes that James Wilkinson (the comanding general of the US Army and secretly a paid Spanish agent and the chief Government witness against Aaron Burr) had in 1775 accompanied Benedict Arnold in his famous march across the Maine wilderness to attack Canada (Wilkinson had actually been among the reinforcements reaching Arnold the next year) and also that Westchester County is in Connecticut (a statement that would amaze thousands of New York State taxpayers). But, overall I found Wheelan's account to be a gripping narrative about both conspiracy and trial.	2005-07-03
US	53057371	RQ59E0PCVCN1H	0465094058	657430710	American Traveler: The Life and Adventures of John Ledyard, the Man Who Dreamed of Walking The World	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A portrait of a remarkable 18th Century American	John Ledyard has been mostly forgotten today, but this late eighteenth century New England Yankee dreamed of exporing an as-yet largely unknown world and, before his death while still in his thirties, he had accomplished part of that dream.  Ledyard, a correspondent of Thomas Jefferson, was very much cast in the mold of an explorer and natural philosopher at the end of the Age of Reason.  Russian bureaucracy and xenophobia cut short Ledyard's planned journey around the globe on foot (with water transportation when necessary) and he died on the eve of setting out on an expedition to explore central Africa, so his largest ambitions remained unfulfilled, but nonetheless he had been a companion and chronicler of Captain on his last, fatal voyage to the Pacific.	2005-07-03
US	53057371	RC5CBLM2NL0XO	0199263086	496750860	Troy and Homer: Towards a Solution of an Old Mystery	Books	5	28	29	N	N	The historical Troy emerges from the mythic mists	Joachim Latacz's \\"Troy and Homer\\" is based in significant part on the archaeological work conducted at Troy in recent years under the leadership of Manfred Korfmann, work which has proven -- to anyone with an open mind, I believe -- that the site of Hisarlik in northwestern Turkey, originally investigated in the nineteenth century by Heinrich Schliemann and Frank Calvert, is not only the location of the city of Troy but also that this ancient Troy was a far larger, more important city than the archaeological record had previously revealed.  No comprehensive, popular account of Korfmann's work has yet been published in English, but Latacz's book at least presents some of the discoveries and conclusions.  I should note that \\"Troy and Homer\\" is not primarily an archaeology book, bur rather one that seeks to establish a relationship between Homer's \\"iliad\\" and whatever historical reality lies behind it, and draws not only from archaeological work at Hisarlik but also uses to great effect the study of Hittite inscriptions and tablets found elsewhere in Asia Minor and together with linguistic investigations into the roots of Homer's work and archaeological surveys in Greece.  Latacz leaves, in my opinion, little doubt that at least in a broad sense Homer's \\"Iliad\\" speaks of real historical events, that the Greeks of circa 1300 or 1200 BCE indeed contend with the rulers of ancient Troy.<br /><br />Latcz's argument for the historical basis of Homer's poem is detailed and often closely-reasoned, so the reader must be prepared to follow the author through a wide range of evidence of various natures.  But I found it to be a journey well worth taking.	2005-07-03
US	53057371	R2TCPP3LYP1CH0	0940053039	95600369	At the Battle of the Little Big Horn  Where Was Custer?	Books	2	6	7	N	N	Nonessential reading for the Little Big Horn student	Books about the Battle of the Little Big Horn are almost without number (I should know; I am at present writing my own!) and unfortunately not all of them are particularly insightful or informative.  I am sorry to say that in my opinion Combs's \\"Where Was Custer?\\" is among this latter group.  I think he is too enraptured by those Indian narratives presented by David Humphreys Miller, for one thing (Indian narratives can have great value in deciphering what happened at the Little Big Horn, but Miller's are perhaps not among the most reliable).  And Combs' conclusion as to what specifically happened to George Custer is neither original nor especially convincing.  There are much better books available about these events/	2005-07-03
US	53057371	R1FXU41F492MEV	0609807102	12356969	Jefferson and the Gun-Men: How the West Was Almost Lost (It Happened in)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	An irreverant account of famous -- and infamous -- events	The prinicple narrative thread in Montgomery's \\"Jefferson and the Gun-Men\\" is an irreverant account of the Lewis and Clark Expedition.  Do not expect \\"Heroic Explorers Contend Against the Wilderness\\"; rather, it is more like \\"Laurel and Hardy Go West\\".  Although I would hesitate to take everything Montgomery states at face value -- I cannot but help think he was looking for drama, treachery, and sheer idiocy instead of straight history --  I do find his account useful in one primary regard:  he interweaves in a chronologically straightforward manner the activities of not only Lewis and Clark but also of Zebulon Pike (if Lewis and Clark were Laurel and Hardy, then Pike in his view was something of a singlehanded Keystone Kop), Tom Jeffeson, Aaron Burr, and James Wilkinson (commanding general of the US Army and secretly a paid agent of Spain and a conspirator with Aaron Burr to invade Mexico or to set up the western US territories as a separate country or something -- in the end, Wilkinson betrayed Burr and became the chief witness against him in Burr's treason trial).  Lewis and Clark's explorations, Pike's wanderings up the Mississippi and in the Southwest, Burr's schemes ... they are all intertwined.  So, at a minimum Montgomery's book establishes a common timescale for events usually treated in isolation.  But I would urge the reader to go beyond Montgomery's book to read other viewpoints about these men and their activities.	2005-07-03
US	53057371	RKWLQOTL3YYW9	0312271204	795284084	A Gladiator Dies Only Once: The Further Investigations of Gordianus the Finder	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Top Notch Historical Mystery Fiction	I am definitely a fan of Steven Saylor's \\"Gordianus the Finder\\" tales, set in the First Century BCE, during the last decades of the Roman Republic.  The present volume is a collection of short stories set fairly early in Goridanus's career, some decades before the more recent novels in the series.  But like the novels, these short stories are filled with strong, memorable characters and genuine historial incident.<br /><br />I rate Saylor as quite probably the best \\"historical mystery\\" working today; his books always provide new insights into Ancient Roman life and society.  The stories in this volume wwuld be a good introduction to the more complex and subtle novels in Saylor's \\"Roma Sub Rosa\\" series, enjoyable in themselves but also illuminating the characters inhabiting the novels.	2005-06-28
US	53057371	R286NK9VA5Z78X	186176233X	967486988	Feeding Nelson's Navy: The True Story of Food at Sea in the Georgian Era	Books	5	21	21	N	N	An excellent look into an important but neglected subject	Cervantes in \\"Don Quixote\\" lampoons the writers of chivalric romances for failing to address the mundane realities of life, chief among them being how their heroic knights errant managed to feed themselves.  To a lesser degree, perhaps, the modern authors of nautical fiction likewise do not much address the question of how their seaborne heroes (and their crews) were fed, day in and day out.  Undoubtedly this is partly because it is far more interesting to write about boarding an enemy frigate than boiling salt beef, but I suspect that it also has to do with the absence of readily available, reliable information about the subject.  Now, Janet Macdonald has addressed this want of discussion with \\"Feeding Nelson's Navy: The True Story of Food at Sea in the Georgian Era\\".  Coming from a background of writing about cookery, she has tackled the complex and surprisingly mysterious question of how in the world the Royal Navy fed itself during the classic Age of Fighting Sail.  Although it might be thought that a matter of such obvious vital importance to maintaining a fighting fleet of tens of thousands of mariners would have been recorded officially in detail, in point of fact Macdonald has had to sift through obscure primary documents such as ships' logs, personal memoirs, and period letters to adequately explore how it was all done: from procuring the foodstuffs (and drink) in the first place, to storing them, getting them to the ships in port and at sea, storing the victuals aboard, preparing meals, and serving them to officer and crews.  And even with such diligent research, she must resort to informed speculation to address some questions, such as just how a ship's cook kept separate the rations for the various messes and served them out in an efficient manner.  The breadth of coverage is impressive: the Navy's Victualling Board administration, officially mandated rations and substitutes, typical recipes, shipboard organization, disease and vermin, the \\"hardware\\" of food preparation and consumption (stoves and dining implements), and surrounding social customs.  For anyone interested in the real world of the Royal Navy behind the fiction Horatio Hornblowers and Jack Aubreys, \\"Feeding Nelson's Navy\\" is a revelation, dispelling old myths and offering new facts such as the caloric and vitamin content of the men's meals.  Macdonald throughout her book illustrates the practicalities of the subject by citing numerous real-life incidents drawn from period documents.food preparation and consumption (stoves and dining implements), and surrounding social customs.  For anyone interested in the real world of the Royal Navy behind the fiction Horatio Hornblowers and Jack Aubreys, \\"Feeding Nelson's Navy\\" is a revelation, dispelling old myths and offering new facts such as the caloric and vitamin content of the men's meals.  Macdonald throughout her book illustrates the practicalities of the subject by citing numerous real-life incidents drawn from period documents.	2004-12-11
US	53057371	R3LUTX5J1N1ULQ	0684872544	967310766	Wolves Eat Dogs	Books	5	57	61	N	N	A grim, nightmarish, compelling tale of the New Russia	Arkady Renko is a pessimist; he thinks everything will go wrong.  Arkady Renko is a realist; he believes everything will go wrong.  Arkady Renko is a Russian; he knows everything will go wrong.<br /><br />Way back in \\"Gorky Park\\", the first of Martin Cruz Smith's tales about the Moscow investigator, Arkady Renko was faced with crime and corruption hidden behind the mask of Soviet communism.  In this latest novel, the Soviet Union is no more, but crime and corruption remain -- indeed, they are blossoming -- under the rabid capitalism of the New Russia.  In \\"Wolves Eat Dogs\\" Renko investigates (well, he is offically ordered not to investigate) the death of Moscow's darling billionaire-of-the-moment, Pasha Ivanov, who threw himself, maybe, out of the window of his luxurious high-rise apartment, leaving behind anxious business partners, a young mistress, and a pile of salt in his closet.<br /><br />Succeeding events lead Renko to \\"the Zone\\", the radioactive wasteland around Chernobyl in the Ukraine, a journey to a grim circle of hell straight out of Dante's Inferno, inhabited by the mad, the doomed, and the hopeless.  Who else would eat food grown in radioactive earth and turn off dosimeters because their constant clicking is too distracting?  Life there is very cheap, and death can be had at virtually no price at all.  Yet, beneath all else, \\"Wolves Eat Dogs\\" is more than anything a story of redemption, never certain redemption but, ultimately, the undying possibility of redemption.  Renko's descent to this nightmare of a real world makes for strongly compelling reading, arguably the best of the Renko books since \\"Gorky Park\\".	2004-11-29
US	53057371	RCV7H1CDBUQ3	0060758279	50491331	The Art of Discworld	Books	5	44	44	N	Y	A Giant Candy Box of Discworld Visual Delights	Terry Pratchett's Discworld is an extraordinarily varied and detailed creation of fantasy-that-is-awfully-real (not to mention being seriously funny).  I suppose all of us who are fans of this work carry an assortment of internal visual images of what the world and its inhabitants look like, but \\"The Art of Discworld\\" comes pretty close to showing us how Terry Pratchett envisions his own creation.  The drawings and paintings are by Paul Kidby, and Pratchett assures us in the introduction that \\"Paul sees things my way about seventy-five per cent of the time, which suggests either mind-reading is happening or that my vision of my characters is really rather vagues until I see his drawings.\\"  The illustrations in the book are, as might be expected, numerous and wonderfully vivid, showing us everyone and everything (some of those things animate and some not) of importance in the Discworld universe.  But as absorbing as the paintings are, they are matched in interest by Pratchett's comments on each character, telling us how they came about and how they have evolved over time.  I would have a hard time selecting my favorite illustration from the book.  Heck, I would have a hard time limiting my choice to the top ten -- or twenty -- pictures.  \\"The Art of Discworld\\" is guaranteed to be a delight to any fan of Pratchett's fiction.  Or as the Librarian would say, \\"Ook!\\"	2004-11-09
US	53057371	RLBCP71UTZC20	1844150739	23542653	Frigate Commander	Books	5	17	19	N	Y	An intimate look at the life of a real frigate captain	In 2001 Tom Wareham published \\"The Star Captains\\", a detailed study of Royal  Navy frigate captains during the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic Wars, comparing them with their comrades who did not command one of these glamorous vessels, or at most did so for only a short time.  That book is filled with facts, some of them presented in chart or graph form, but its academic tone -- it originated as a PhD thesis -- may have proved dry for the general reader.  As Wareham himself notes in the foreword to a new work:  \\"one reviewer commented, fairly, that the book did not really take the reader close to the spirit of the frigate captains themselves.\\"  In part, Wareham's new book, \\"Frigate Commander\\", is an effort to redress this lack.  And, I think, Wareham has succeeded.  In \\"Frigate Commander\\" he presents the detailed story of a single officer, Graham Moore, who, except for a break during the Peace of Amiens, commanded frigates for more than a dozen years, from 1794 to 1806, his ships being the Syren, 32, the Melampus, 36, and the Indefatigable, 44.  (Moore had earlier commanded the sloops Orestes and Bonetta.)<br /><br />Wareham's narrative of Moore's career is illuminated by frequent and generous excerpts from a remarkable source -- thirty-seven volumes of Moore's handwritten diary, beginning in 1784 as a lieutenant and following him through his promotions to Master and Commander in 1791 and to Post Captain in 1794.  The book effectively ends with Moore's relinguishment of command of the Indefatigable in 1806, only briefly surveying his later career on ships-of-the-line and as an admiral.<br /><br />Inevitably, comparison must be made between Moore and his fictional counterparts such as Horatio Hornblower and Jack Aubrey.  The serious, even gloomy, and introspective Moore is perhaps closer in personality to Hornblower than the sanguine, hearty Jack Aubrey, and Moore's deep interest in literature and painting certainly would not resonate with a man who could mistake Shakespeare's Hamlet\\" for a comedy.  Yet, Moore had a strong tinge of romanticism, and many of his diary comments could well pass for something Jack Aubrey might write in his serial letters to his wife.  Moore abhorred flogging, but recognized its necessity as part of a firm, consistent discipline.  The struggles against sea and storms and the enemy and difficult admirals are all here in Moore's story and diary.  We read of Moore's dealings with incompent subordinates, his pain over the loss of men to accident and battle, the loneliness of command ...  I don't think that Patrick O'Brian or C.S. Forester ever read Moore's journals, but they would have instantly recognized so much of what is in them.<br /><br />I cannot imagine that any fan of Hornblower or Aubrey would fail to appreciate Wareham's \\"Frigate Commander\\" for its intimate look at the real-life world of a Royal Navy frigate captain.istake Shakespeare's Hamlet\\" for a comedy.  Yet, Moore had a strong tinge of romanticism, and many of his diary comments could well pass for something Jack Aubrey might write in his serial letters to his wife.  Moore abhorred flogging, but recognized its necessity as part of a firm, consistent discipline.  The struggles against sea and storms and the enemy and difficult admirals are all here in Moore's story and diary.  We read of Moore's dealings with incompent subordinates, his pain over the loss of men to accident and battle, the loneliness of command ...  I don't think that Patrick O'Brian or C.S. Forester ever read Moore's journals, but they would have instantly recognized so much of what is in them.   <br /> <br />I cannot imagine that any fan of Hornblower or Aubrey would fail to appreciate Wareham's \\"Frigate Commander\\" for its intimate look at the real-life world of a Royal Navy frigate captain. <br />	2004-11-01
US	53057371	R2UYV9H3AXGLGK	039306025X	73195402	21: The Final Unfinished Voyage of Jack Aubrey: Including Facsimile of the Manuscript	Books	5	204	208	N	Y	A Final Gift to Patrick O'Brian Fans	An excellent gift to the fans of Patrick O'Brian but, I am sure, of little interest to anyone else.  Certainly it would be the worst possible introduction to O'Brian's wonderful nautical fiction.  But for those of us who have for years read and re-read his tales, so beautifully written and so infused with the great friendship between his two central characters, this fragment of O'Brian's intended twenty-first novel in the series allows us to pay one last visit to these two fascinating men.  And happily we find them in a time of comparative joy and leisure.  Gentle humor abounds as Aubrey and Maturin tease one another, based on their sure knowledge of one another's quirks and modes of thought.  Although it seems certain that the typewritten manuscript of the these three, rather short chapters would have received further polishing and likely substantial additions before the book was completed, what we have is not only recognizable, but very characteristic O'Brian prose, often illuminated by the choice of exactly the right adjective that is at once both unexpected and yet revealed as inevitable.  I would go so far as to argue that even as it stands, the writing here more nearly approaches that of O'Brian's best books than that of at least the last few novels.<br /><br />A unique feature of this final book is that it presents the printed text face-to-face with O'Brian's handwritten draft for that same text, and it can be fascinating to see how the prose evolved from pen to typewritten versions.  But the typewritten text ended with still several handwritten pages yet to go, and the publishers have elected to present those last pages as they were found without transcription into print.  As a previous reviewer noted, deciphering those handwritten passages can be a thorny task (after a week of it, there are still a number of words I can claim to read only tentatively and a few not at all).  But I think the publisher was right in not attempting to integrate those last handwritten pages into the printed text drawn directly from what had already been typed up by O'Brian.  First, there would have been a problem of continuity.  As O'Brian worked on his manuscript, changes were being made in the storyline so that the remaining handwritten pages do not really reflect plot developments that had been typed up.  And perhaps more importantly, much of this last handwritten portion bears evidence of being a rapidly written first draft, sketching out the storyline more than attempting to create anything close to an envisioned final version; some words are omitted, some are unintentionally repeated.  Undoubtedly, these imperfections in these last few pages would have been corrected if O'Brian had had the opportunity to redraft them by hand (as seems to have been his usual working method) or typewriter, but for the publisher to transfer them into print would have required either a heavy hand in editing - thus departing unfortunately far from the O'Brian original - or acceptance of a stylistically incompatible finale.  No, all in all I agree with the publisher's decision to leave these last several pages in O'Brian's own handwriting.  For those of us sufficiently interested, decipherment at least to the extent of following the storyline is not too difficult a job, and it is a task that ultimately brings us closer to this most favored of authors as, in his last days, he once again sailed in company with Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin.<br /><br />One final note: if given a choice between obtaining the American edition of this book published by Norton or the British edition issued by HarperCollins, I would suggest the latter.  Although the Patrick O'Brian content of the two is the same, the UK edition also contains an illuminating introduction by William Waldegrave and, perhaps even more pleasing, it is printed on a superior paper stock for clarity and simply more luxurious feel.written pages into the printed text drawn directly from what had already been typed up by O'Brian.  First, there would have been a problem of continuity.  As O'Brian worked on his manuscript, changes were being made in the storyline so that the remaining handwritten pages do not really reflect plot developments that had been typed up.  And perhaps more importantly, much of this last handwritten portion bears evidence of being a rapidly written first draft, sketching out the storyline more than attempting to create anything close to an envisioned final version; some words are omitted, some are unintentionally repeated.  Undoubtedly, these imperfections in these last few pages would have been corrected if O'Brian had had the opportunity to redraft them by hand (as seems to have been his usual working method) or typewriter, but for the publisher to transfer them into print would have required either a heavy hand in editing - thus departing unfortunately far from the O'Brian original - or acceptance of a stylistically incompatible finale.  No, all in all I agree with the publisher's decision to leave these last several pages in O'Brian's own handwriting.  For those of us sufficiently interested, decipherment at least to the extent of following the storyline is not too difficult a job, and it is a task that ultimately brings us closer to this most favored of authors as, in his last days, he once again sailed in company with Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin. <br /> <br />One final note: if given a choice between obtaining the American edition of this book published by Norton or the British edition issued by HarperCollins, I would suggest the latter.  Although the Patrick O'Brian content of the two is the same, the UK edition also contains an illuminating introduction by William Waldegrave and, perhaps even more pleasing, it is printed on a superior paper stock for clarity and simply more luxurious feel. <br />	2004-10-22
US	53057371	R2YH0Q22U9P905	0060013133	123160839	Going Postal: A Novel of Discworld	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Top Notch Pratchett	Although I gave \\"Going Postal\\" 5 stars, I found myself wishing that Amazon allowed a rating of \\"6\\", so much did I enjoy this latest entry in Terry Pratchett's Discworld series.  I will admit that I had found \\"The Monstrous Regiment\\" less appealing than many of the earlier volumes, so I approached \\"Going Postal\\" with just a little concern.  But no worries!  This newest book easily ranks with the best of what has come before.<br /><br />\\"Going Postal\\" returns us once again to Ankn-Morpork, but is not directly connected to the set of City Watch novels or any of the other groupings of Discworld book.  Instead, like \\"Moving Pictures\\" or \\"The Truth\\", this new book stands by itself in the universe of Discworld.  Only Lord Vetinari among the characters of earlier volumes plays a major role in this novel (and what a part he plays!), although a number of familiar names do pop up from time to time.  The story principally centers around Moist von Lipwig, a skillful con man, to whom Lord Vetinari makes an offer he can't refuse.  Well, not at least refuse and go on breathing.  For reasons known only to the clever tyrant, Lipwig is appointed Postmaster of the long-defunct Ankh-Morpork postal service, a position whose recent history has largely featured drastically shortened lives.  Among Lipwig's more obvious challenges is the rivalry of the long-distance \\"clacker\\" service that does not look kindly upon the rebirth of a rival.  But the Discworld being Discworld, not all problems are human or even, in the strict sense, posed by living enemies.<br /><br />Von Lipwig is a thoroughly engaging character who sometimes - well, most of the time - has a difficult time forgetting his criminal past.  But he has help in keeping, more or less, on the straight and narrow from a watchdog golem who has been assigned by Vetinari to make sure that his new postmaster stays on the job (and in Ankh-Morpork).  And just in case Lipwig hopes to take advantage of the well-known principle that a golem mustn't harm a human being, Vetinari reminds him of the lesser-known next bit: Unless Ordered To Do So By Duly Constituted Authority.<br /><br />Characters and situations are full of humor, the dialogue is sparkling, word-play abounds.  But in with the humor are thoughtful points made about corporate corruption and practices that sacrifice people for suspect profits.  In other words, another excellent Discworld novel.mustn't harm a human being, Vetinari reminds him of the lesser-known next bit: Unless Ordered To Do So By Duly Constituted Authority. <br /> <br />Characters and situations are full of humor, the dialogue is sparkling, word-play abounds.  But in with the humor are thoughtful points made about corporate corruption and practices that sacrifice people for suspect profits.  In other words, another excellent Discworld novel.   <br />	2004-09-29
US	53057371	R1SXVFNWXWKODH	2840481545	765372638	Omaha Beach: 6/6/1944	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A vivid visual look at a famous battle	Not long ago, I read and reviewed Joseph Balkoski's \\"Omaha Beach\\" and somewhat lamented the absence of really adequate maps to better show what had happened, linking the small unit actions with the bigger picture.  I must say tha Georges Bernage's book is the perfect companion to Balkoski's, supplying highly vivid maps and photographs to amplify the words of Balkoski's narrative.  And it certainly is not necessary to read Balkoski's book to find Bernage's much more visually-oriented work valuable in itself.  A detailed picture of German tactical arrangements is presented along with equally detailed portrayals of individual American attacks bypassing and overcoming those defenses.  And Bernage's text should not be ignored, as it contains some excellent first-hand account material.	2004-09-09
US	53057371	RILANCHNIGUKR	1853675466	767614073	Targeting the Reich: Allied Photographic Reconnaissance over Europe, 1939-1945	Books	5	16	18	N	N	A World War Two Eye in the Sky	Certainly this is not a book for everyone, but I have a considerable liking for aerial photographs.  I like the unconventional perspective such photographs give to places and events.  Algred Price's \\"Targeting the Reich: Allied Photographic Reconnaissance Over Europe, 1939-45\\" provides a succinct text overview of British and US aerial reconnaissance techniques and technology, but the main focus of the book is the more than 150 photographs taken during reconnaissance missions, startling in their clarity and drama.  We see bombing raids in progress, Nazi warships and airfields, camouflaged factories, V-1 launch sites ...  Some of the photographs display what I can only call artistic merit, especially those with features casting sharp, dark shadows or those with extraordinary patterns of water wave action or land tracks.  The terror and destruction of war is transformed into a harsh beauty.	2004-09-02
US	53057371	R958EUR7QJ1XZ	1841767034	917002240	Troy C. 1700-1250 BC (Fortress, 17)	Books	5	22	22	N	N	A window into the history behind a great legend	As mentioned by another reviewer, Osprey Publishing is usually associated with military-oriented books, lavishly illustrated with maps, photographs, and precise drawings of uniforms and weapons.  \\"Troy c. 1700-1250 BC\\" is a volume that should have a broader appeal than to military enthusiasts alone.  Although certainly the fortification aspects of the Trojan story are given a certain focus in this publication, the full story of the historical Troy which lies behind the legends and Homeric poetry is also presented in Nic Fields' book.  And that has been an evolving story.  For most of a century we thought we knew the extent of Troy at the time of the famed Trojan Wars when, at least according to myth, a great army of Greeks besieged and sacked the city.  We knew it as a tall-walled citadel atop a hill near the Hellespont.  But in the last decade or so, a German archaeological team has uncovered a previously unknown \\"lower city\\" stretching out into the Trojan plain from this citadel, proving the ancient city to be far larger than understood before.  And this new knowledge is excellently presented in a series of delicate but vibrant drawings in the volume by Donato and Sarah Sulemsohn Spedaliere.  Nowhere else have I seen this expanded city of Troy so well visually presented.  Students of ancient history and archaeology will be well pleased by this Osprey volume.	2004-08-20
US	53057371	R2P1ET5CN2QA4M	0750934182	357645918	The Reign of Arthur: From History to Legend	Books	5	18	18	N	N	A cogent study of the historical sources for a real Arthur	Many Arthurian enthusiasts have attempted to identify the one and true original for the man who became the center of so much legend, the genuine King Arthur.  Working from Welsh poems and Medieval tales, such writers have come up with a myriad of answers to the question: \\"Who was the real Arthur?\\"  He was from Scotland, from Wales, from Cornwall.  He was an overking, a minor king, a mere leader of a small warband.  But while such studies in popular history have been churned out year by year, academic historians in recent decades have been largely dismissive of the notion of a historical original, instead contending that the figure of Arthur was wholly mythical, the legends contaminating the few ancient sources (such as Nennius and Bede) that mention him.  Yet, such dismissal of a historical Arthur by many academics seems to be something of a matter of faith in iteself, with little being published on the subject.<br /><br />But what do the ancient sources really say and, at least equally importantly, what can we understand about their reliability?  Should we blythely accept the modern academic disdain for a genuine Arthur?  These are the questions addressed by Christopher Gidlow in \\"The Reign of Arthur\\".  Gidlow is an Oxford-trained professional historian with a longtime interest in Arthur.  The first half of his book is a source-by-source analysis of the evidence -- Y Gododdin, Gildas, Bede, Nennius, the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle, the Annals of Wales.  And consistently Gidlow concludes that the sources do support the existence of a real Arthur sometime around the end of the Fifth Century CE, a military leader -- perhaps a king or perhaps not -- who led British forces to victory at Badon over the Saxons, a real core about which the later legends were added.  Carefully Gidlow explains the regional origins and limitations of the sources and what we can expect to find and not find.  I found his exploration of Gildas's De Excidio Britanniae to be especially illuminating.<br /><br />The second half of \\"The Reign of Arthur\\" is devoted to those later writings when the legend was almost hiding the historical original, such as in various \\"Lives of Saints\\" and most especially Geoffrey of Monmounth's work.  There is less here about the historical Arthur to be revealed, but Gidlow's analyses are nonetheless instructive.<br /><br />\\"The Reign of Arthur\\" should be read by anyone with a serious interest in the question of whether or not such a man ever existed.  It does not seek to provide a specific identity in a specific site, as do so many of the popular history works in this field, but Gidlow's book puts the search for Arthur upon much firmer ground.g. <br /> <br />The second half of \\"The Reign of Arthur\\" is devoted to those later writings when the legend was almost hiding the historical original, such as in various \\"Lives of Saints\\" and most especially Geoffrey of Monmounth's work.  There is less here about the historical Arthur to be revealed, but Gidlow's analyses are nonetheless instructive. <br /> <br />\\"The Reign of Arthur\\" should be read by anyone with a serious interest in the question of whether or not such a man ever existed.  It does not seek to provide a specific identity in a specific site, as do so many of the popular history works in this field, but Gidlow's book puts the search for Arthur upon much firmer ground.	2004-08-19
US	53057371	R3LT1EMDA69YR8	0312271190	753868454	The Judgment of Caesar: A Novel of Ancient Rome (Novels of Ancient Rome)	Books	5	38	38	N	N	A fine addition to an excellent historical mystery series	Steven Saylor's novels about Gordianus the Finder of Ancient Rome have not only been one of the most consistently compelling historical mystery series written, the individual volumes have grown over time in depth and power.  And \\"The Judgment of Caesar\\" continues in that path.  The Gordianus books unlike most \\"historical mysteries do not merely use the past as a setting for the stories, but instead employ great historical figures and real events as the driving motors behind the plots.  The reader is carried through a succession of events in one of the most tumultuous eras of Roman history, the mid-First Century BCE when the old Republic was dying and the emergence of the Empire was not far distant.  But at the same time, the novels are also very much about the evolving story of Gordianus himself as the years pass, ever challenged by the stresses and pains of life.  For that reason, the stories are best read in sequence, and a reader of \\"The Judgment of Caesar\\" would be deprived of much of the force of this novel without previous familiarity with what has passed over the decades before with Gordianus, his wife, and his children.  Yes, there is a mystery to be solved in the midst of the rest of the plot, but it is virtually secondary in comparison with historical events and what is happening regarding Gordianus's personal life, right up to the enigmatic ending.<br /><br />Saylor's Gordianus novels are without doubt among the very best historical mystery series ever written, works of genuine complexity and subtlety.  Inevitably, comparison will be made with Lindsey Davis's Marcus Didius Falco series set a century and more later in Rome.  As much as I enjoy Davis's books, their tone is utterly different, being in part a pastiche of contemporary hard-boiled detective stories - Sam Spade in a toga - and for the most part in them history is a backdrop, not the heart of the tale.  And while Falco is an engaging, wisecracking character, Steven Saylor's Gordianus is much more a genuine fallible human being in whom we can find ourselves.re a genuine fallible human being in whom we can find ourselves. <br />	2004-08-08
US	53057371	R1TSRJAVCLZU1C	1400060184	739143398	Dark Voyage: A Novel	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Dark, shadowy, excellent -- and nautical	Alan Furst's literary domain is Europe -- mostly eastern and central Europe -- in those few years on either side of 1939, when Europe stood on the brink of World War Two and then plunged headlong into chaos.  What is most enticing about Furst's works is that he creates such a convincing atmosphere that breathes with the life of that place and time.  I am one of those readers who habitually translate the printed page into mental picture, and in the case of Furst's novels I find the movie playing in my mind to be appropriately in cinematic black and white. I half expect Peter Lorre to be lurking in a dark doorway or Sidney Greenstreet to be behind that beaded curtain.<br /><br />Alan Furst's new book, \\"Dark Voyage\\", is from the familiar period and area -- 1941 Europe -- but there is something of a departure this time around in that the primary setting is a ship, the Dutch tramp steamer Noordendam under the command of Eric DeHaan, ship and captain pressed into the service of the Naval Intelligence arm of the Dutch Government in exile, clandestinely transporting under false colors people and material to wherever orders require.  The cast of characters, as always, is a mixture of diverse and uncertain nationalities, appropriate in an era when nationalities themselves were shifting at the whim of events.  I found \\"Dark Voyage\\" to be a compelling, if episodic, reading experience as the weary Dutch freighter and her weary crew go about the dark business of a shadow war.<br /><br />Furst's book are not a series, although a minor character in one book may turn up as the central figure in another, and can generally be read without any particular order.  And for those of you who are familiar with Furst's novels, yes, Table Fourteen at the Brasserie Heininger in Paris does make its customary appearance.	2004-08-06
US	53057371	R1LN9TGGH1LEIH	0750929545	634162266	Ripper Diary: The Inside Story	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A study of an enigma	In 1993 there seemed, at least for a brief time, that a solution to the question of &quot;Who was Jack the Ripper?&quot; had been found. A diary supposedly written by James Maybrick of Liverpool, recording his activities as the famous murderer, was released. Immediately a firestorm of controversy exploded, if for no other reason than the whole scenario seemed unbelievable -- Maybrick was a well-known figure in his own right, being the victim of a famous murder in 1889. Was the diary genuine? Experts weighed in on both sides of the question. Test results were ambiguous -- was the diary a recent forgery or was it decades old (and if decades old, was it a decades-old forgery)? The handwriting did not resemble that of Maybrick's will, but claims were made that the will itself was a forgery. The man credited with bringing the diary forth claimed in an alcoholic haze that he had forged the diary, then rescinded his claim (and, admittedly, forging the diary seems a bit beyond his capabilities). An old watch inscribed with the name of James Maybrick and with the initials of the Jack the Ripper victims was discovered, supporting the diary's authenticity, and a number of experts who examined the watch believed that the inscriptions had been made many years ago. To this day, no-one knows for sure about the Maybrick diary, although I think it fair to say that the majority of Ripperologists do not accept it. &quot;Ripper Diary&quot; is the story of that controversy, not seeking either to authenticate or refute the Maybrick diary, but presenting a detailed account of the people involved and what happened to them. There are no final answers here, but I think that anyone seriously interested in Jack the Ripper (and the phenomenon of fascination with Jack the Ripper) would be rewarded by reading this book -- if not to change or make up their minds about the Maybrick diary, then at least to better understand the sequence of events and the nature of the controversy.	2004-08-01
US	53057371	R374AJ1JDCQ7K	0811700798	273087000	Omaha Beach: D-Day, June 6, 1944	Books	5	43	44	N	N	Solid account of one of the most crucial battles in WW2	Joseph Balkoski's book on Omaha Beach may not be able to lay claim to quite the same literary grace of Cornelius Ryan's classic &quot;The Longest Day&quot; nor perhaps even Stephen Ambrose's later book on D-Day, but it does provide a sharper focus than either of those books on what was probably the most crucial one-day battle in the European theater that the US engaged in World War Two. Balkoski's preference is for primary sources as nearly contemporaneous with the events themselves, using later veterans' reminiscences only when corroborated by other evidence. He has constructed a narrative that is broken at regular intervals for excerpts, sometimes quite lengthy, sometimes not, from primary sources. Although this does not make for the smoothest narrative style, it does allow the men who were there speak for themselves. Almost of these accounts are from Americans -- it was, after all, American ground forces who landed on Omaha Beach -- but are supplemented by some from Royal Navy personnel who operated some of the landing craft used to ferry the Americans ashore. Balkoski explains, however, that very few German accounts are available because, first, relatively few Germans fought there and survived and, second, those who did survive had little reason to recount their experiences in later years.<br /><br /> I do not believe that there is a clearer, more detailed study of the Omaha Beach events available anywhere. Balkoski's text is supplemented by numerous maps, albeit maps somewhat sterile in style. I regretted the lack of a handy key relating the maps of quite small actions to the larger geography of Omaha Beach, and I found it useful to turn to another source (Steven Zaloga's Osprey book on Omaha Beach) for maps that helped place the small events in a larger context, but that is only a small quibble.<br /><br /> There were many heroes on Omaha Beach that day, but it is clear that Balkoski particularly admires Brigadier General Norman D. Cota, assistant commander of the 29th Division, whose actions under fire were an important factor in moving the invasion force off the beach and across the bluffs into the interior. In an appendix, Balkoski advocates a reconsideration of the Distinguished Service Cross awarded to Cota and upgrading it to a Medal of Honor in recognition of Cota's conduct on Omaha Beach (he also suggests the same for Colonel George Taylor, commanding officer of the 16th Infantry Regiment, whose actions paralled those of Cota).der of the 29th Division, whose actions under fire were an important factor in moving the invasion force off the beach and across the bluffs into the interior. In an appendix, Balkoski advocates a reconsideration of the Distinguished Service Cross awarded to Cota and upgrading it to a Medal of Honor in recognition of Cota's conduct on Omaha Beach (he also suggests the same for Colonel George Taylor, commanding officer of the 16th Infantry Regiment, whose actions paralled those of Cota).	2004-07-31
US	53057371	RWIKG3CZ8R4U	0859790975	322818418	D-Day Lost Evidence (Above the Battle)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	An entralling visual window into a great moment of history	Obviously, opinions about books - and reviews of them - are highly subjective, and two different people can look at the same work and come away with honest, but diametrically opposed views of the book's merits.  I found Going and Jones' presentation of the aerial reconnaissance photographs of the D-Day invasion to be strongly compelling.  In a very real sense, in my opinion, readers are transported back to a \\"you are there\\" moment, looking far down upon men desperately fighting for their lives, unaware of the observation.  Those tiny dots are individual soldiers.  Tanks and combat engineering vehicles are slightly larger dark blocks.  We see smoke drifting across the land, the white wakes of landing craft making their runs to the beaches, shell and bomb craters scarring the fields, discarded parachutes ... all from a literally bird's eye view, albeit a very high flying bird.  There is an immediacy to these aerial reconnaissance images that I personally found enthralling.  I do not claim that this is a book for everyone, not even for every military history enthusiast, but I do know that for some of us, such photographs provide a powerful link to this momentous event.  As for the criticisms expressed in another review ... yes, it would have been good to have some larger-sized photographs, although I am not convinced that the limitations imposed by original image resolution would have supported greater enlargement in any meaningful way, but might have instead yielded merely larger blurs, perhaps even more difficult to visually interpret.  The authors state quite clearly that they have already passed these images through modern computer enhancements, so apparently what we face are limits stemming from the originals.  For me, what Going and Jones have done is to present us with an enthralling window into an important and dramatic moment of history.	2004-07-29
US	53057371	R1Z50TU70N76YH	0743263014	196258184	Hark! (87th Precinct, #54)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Deaf Man is back -- and in very good company	I've been reading Ed McBain's 87th Precinct series for three decades, although they have been around for almost 50 years. And the amazing thing is that they hold their quality. &quot;Hark!&quot; is no exception and is particularly enticing because the Deaf Man, the favorite villain of the 87th Precinct, is back with another bewildering puzzler of a complex crime design to befuddle and humiliate the boys (and one woman) of the 87th Precinct. When we last saw the Deaf Man quite a few volumes ago, it seemed as if he might have met his end, but not to worry. He is as devious and merciless as ever. And virtually the entire regular cast of the 87th Precinct (and friends) is back, too. Although the mystery of what the Deaf Man plans forms the basic skeleton of the story, the personal stories of the various detectives are carried another step forward also, as Steve Carella unhappily faces the double marriages of his mother and sister, and Bert Kling and Cotton Hawes deal with problems in their relationships with their women of the moment. And Fat Ollie is back. Plenty of action, plenty of puzzles ... it is classic 87th Precinct.<br /><br /> Two warnings: &quot;Hark!&quot; is NOT the place for a reader new to the 87th Precinct to start; there are too many back stories involved, without knowledge of which a reader will miss half of what is going on. And second, there are a couple of silly bloopers that good copyediting should have caught. In the very first chapter there is a careless math error that turns a conversation with the Deaf Man into gibberish, and later there is a misstatement that cartridges are not ejected from an automatic pistol (this statement should apply to a revolver). But those small quibbles aside, &quot;Hark!&quot; is a treat.	2004-07-25
US	53057371	R3VW12T72PBOVP	0316871125	372260453	The Interrogators: Inside the Secret War Against al Qaeda	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Explores the shadowy world of interrogation in our own time	&quot;Chris Mackey&quot; is the pseudonym of a senior US Army Intelligence interrogator during the first year of the war in Afghanistan, He relates in great detail his own experiences in confronting captured Afghans and Arabs and trying to discover their true stories, innocent farmers and hardened terrorists alike. Mackey's own intelligence and strong moral sense stand out in his tale, asking hard questions of himself, his comrades, and his country. When we are faced with the certainty that some small number of American soldiers mistreated prisoners in Afghanistan and Iraq, it is important to realize, as Mackey shows, that this was not the standard that most of the interrogators operated by.<br /><br /> Chris Mackey provides us with an intimate day-to-day portrait of what went on in this particular battlefield of the war against terrorism, a battlefield that sometimes yielded small victories because of the skill and dedication of these soldiers enduring long hours and difficult conditions. And he gives us a picture of how men and women react to those conditions, some growing, some eroding. Most importantly, Mackey shines a light on to difficult questions of morality, not giving absolute answers, but forcing us to think about them in a new light. Anyone who wishes to understand the challenges facing us in this shadow world should read this book.	2004-07-23
US	53057371	R16HGN6ERCSG5S	0974575003	763710473	The Designer Revolution	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Join the Revolution	Valerie Kirschenbaum is a woman with one modest goal: she wants to start a revolution.  \\"The Designer Revolution: The Marriage of Art, Literature, Education, Technology\\" is the opening shot in her quest, drawn in good part from her experiences as a New York City high school teacher.  Why, she asks, in this era of marvelous computer graphics should we continue to read the printed page in the same manner we have done so since the days of Gutenberg?  Just as Henry Ford is reputed to have said that you could get a Model T in any color you wanted as long as it was black, so publishers have traditionally told us we can get a book in any color as long as it is black (and white).<br />Kirschenbaum believes that color is one element that should be explored and exploited to make reading come alive, not only for students but for all of us.  Color is a tool for emphasis and engagement.  Centuries ago in the era of hand-written manuscripts (that is, after all, what a \\"manuscript\\" is), color was an integral part of their creation - color not only for illustrations, but color of text to literally illuminate its meaning.  With the dominance of mass printing of books on huge, inflexible presses, it made sense that color evaporated for entirely practical reasons.  But we are now in another time when such limitations need no longer limit us.  If one particular word or a special phrase or sentence or paragraph would benefit from color to emphasize it, then why not apply color?<br />Of course, the color of ink to print the text upon paper is only one aspect of Kirschenbaum's revolution.  Integrated illustrations - and not just for children's books - are equally within reach of the computer-equipped author, illustrations that are intimately partnered to the text and not isolated to separate insert pages, corralled together away from words.<br />The third leg of Valerie Kirschenbaum's revolution is the shape of letters themselves, the font with which the words are printed.  With computers we have become familiar with the notion that, if we choose to, we can select whatever style of \\"print\\" suits our purposes - Arial, Times New Roman, Century Gothic - whatever we want from that pull-down menu from the toolbar on our computer screen.  Perhaps without thinking much about it, we are all aware on some level that the design, the \\"look\\", of font is important in how we relate and react to what is on the printed page.  The shape of the letters speaks to us in an unconscious voice, aiding - or hindering - our reading.  Pick up a dozen books and magazines and look at the font.  They are not all the same.  They speak in different tones, some more friendly, others more formal.  But Kirschenbaum goes beyond merely advocating an informed selection of pre-made fonts to suit your purposes.  With modern computer graphics, personalized, unique fonts tailored to individual preferences are within practical reach of each computer-savvy author.<br />At the heart of Kirschenbaum's revolution is the realization that computers can erase the line between author and publisher, allowing a unified creative process so that the final product is wholly within the control of a single creator.<br />The physical book \\"The Designer Revolution\\" is an embodiment of Valerie Kirschenbaum's writing/publishing ideas, a marriage of color, illustration, and font.  Open it and let yourself swim in its visual variety.  Open yourself to the idea that computers do not spell the end of the printed page, but its blossoming.ters we have become familiar with the notion that, if we choose to, we can select whatever style of \\"print\\" suits our purposes - Arial, Times New Roman, Century Gothic - whatever we want from that pull-down menu from the toolbar on our computer screen.  Perhaps without thinking much about it, we are all aware on some level that the design, the \\"look\\", of font is important in how we relate and react to what is on the printed page.  The shape of the letters speaks to us in an unconscious voice, aiding - or hindering - our reading.  Pick up a dozen books and magazines and look at the font.  They are not all the same.  They speak in different tones, some more friendly, others more formal.  But Kirschenbaum goes beyond merely advocating an informed selection of pre-made fonts to suit your purposes.  With modern computer graphics, personalized, unique fonts tailored to individual preferences are within practical reach of each computer-savvy author.<br />At the heart of Kirschenbaum's revolution is the realization that computers can erase the line between author and publisher, allowing a unified creative process so that the final product is wholly within the control of a single creator.  <br />The physical book \\"The Designer Revolution\\" is an embodiment of Valerie Kirschenbaum's writing/publishing ideas, a marriage of color, illustration, and font.  Open it and let yourself swim in its visual variety.  Open yourself to the idea that computers do not spell the end of the printed page, but its blossoming.	2004-03-31
US	53057371	R3UXW54FYVAYJ6	0195170342	74776758	Washington's Crossing (Pivotal Moments in American History)	Books	5	297	303	N	N	Compelling, perceptive history at its best	On a number of occasions I have recommended David Hackett Fischer's \\"Paul Revere's Ride\\" as one of the finest American history books I have ever read, a display of deep research, perceptive analysis, and a highly compelling prose narrative.  With \\"Washington's Crossing\\" Fischer has matched his earlier book.  Just as the title incident in \\"Paul Revere's Ride\\" served to signify Fischer's broader study of the earliest days of the American Revolution and the battles at Lexington and Concord, here Emmanuel Leutze's 1851 painting \\"Washington Crossing the Delaware\\" is the emblem chosen to represent the most crucial days at the end of 1776 when that Revolution seemed on the edge of collapse, but George Washington and his army in battles at Trenton and Princeton and in the little-known actions afterwards reversed the course of the war and set the British on the path to ultimate defeat.<br />Although most Americans probably have at least a passing familiarity with Washington's surprise victory over the Hessians at Trenton on the day after Christmas, 1776, Fischer's account highlights an equally crucial, yet barely remembered, battle at Trenton a week later when the American forces withstood a counterattack by Lord Cornwallis's forces, setting the stage for a daring overnight march by Washington around the British army to win another victory at Princeton.  Over the next several weeks, the British and Hessian occupation of central New Jersey collapsed as the Americans, heartened by the events at Trenton and Princeton, struck repeatedly and successfully at detachments of foragers who discovered that the supposedly pacified countryside was suddenly hostile territory.  Within a few months British generals who had believed the rebellion almost crushed found that the path to victory had vanished in the snow and mud.<br />Fischer presents vivid portraits of the generals and common soldiers on both sides of the conflict, while dispelling old myths.  The Hessians at Trenton were not awakened from drunken sleep after Christmas carousing.  The American army, although sometimes short of clothing and food, was well-armed and typically enjoyed a battlefield superiority in artillery.  Washington comes across as a far more complex and flexible character than he is usually depicted (in a lengthy appended essay, Fischer surveys more than two centuries of artistic representations of Washington and the victories at Trenton and Princeton), but the real heroes of Fischer's narrative are the ordinary soldiers of the Continental Army and the local militias.  He argues persuasively that these men were genuinely motivated by their ideals of liberty (although a New Englander of Glover's Marblehead Regiment might differ from a Pennsylvanian frontiersman or a Virginian planter as to exactly what constituted liberty and a proper society) and it is they, not just the generals riding boldly across painted canvases, who deserve much of the credit for maintaining the Revolution and seizing the initiative to take the war to the British and Hessian garrisons and thus reverse the course of events.  And Fischer highlights a consequence of the American commitment to the ideals of liberty: while Hessians and even British troops were regularly offered to take no prisoners, the Americans in general during these campaigns treated their prisoners with compassion and even generosity because of their belief that it was the right thing to do.<br />In his closing, Fischer writes: \\"The most remarkable fact about American soldiers and civilians in the New Jersey campaign is that they ... found a way to defeat a formidable enemy, not merely once at Trenton but many times in twelve weeks of continued combat.  They reversed the momentum of the war.  They improvised a new way of war that grew into an American tradition.  And they chose a policy of humanity that aligned the conduct of the war with the values of the Revolution.  They set a high example, and we have much to learn from them.  Much recent historical writing has served us ill in that respect.  In the late twentieth century, too many scholars tried to make the American past into a record of crime and folly.  Too many writers have told us we are captives of our darker selves and helpless victims of our history.  It isn't so, and never was.  The story of Washington's Crossing tells us that Americans in an earlier generation were capable of acting in a higher spirit - and so are we.\\"em.  Much recent historical writing has served us ill in that respect.  In the late twentieth century, too many scholars tried to make the American past into a record of crime and folly.  Too many writers have told us we are captives of our darker selves and helpless victims of our history.  It isn't so, and never was.  The story of Washington's Crossing tells us that Americans in an earlier generation were capable of acting in a higher spirit - and so are we.\\"	2004-02-01
US	53057371	R3Q8RGLG1C54G9	0866982906	217999063	Beowulf and the Critics (Medieval & Renaissance Texts & Studies, Vol. 248)	Books	5	59	60	N	Y	An incisive analysis of the nature of the poem Beowulf	JRR Tolkien's 1936 &quot;Beowulf: The Monsters and the Critics&quot; is generally accorded to be a seminal study of the great Old English poem &quot;Beowulf&quot;, focusing attention upon the work itself as a consciously crafted piece of literary creation rather than as merely something of historical or quaint antiquitarian interest.  &quot;Beowulf and the Critics&quot; presents two extended lectures from the mid-1930's that were successive steps towards Tolkien's final essay.  The greater length of these lectures, perhaps especially &quot;Version B&quot;, may provide an easier path to appreciating Tolkien's views of the poems than the more dense &quot;The Monsters and the Critics&quot;. Editor Michael Drout provides voluminous explanatory notes about every possibly obscure reference in Tolkien's lectures.  In addition, lengthy textual notes are provided so that the interested scholar may trace the process of revision used by Tolkien in writing his lectures.<br />In his preface Drout mentions the likelihood that there are two natual audiences for this book: Those who read it because the name &quot;Tolkien&quot; is on the cover; and those who read it because &quot;Beowulf&quot; on the cover.  (And Drout writes that &quot;the most valued audience of all [is] those who read the book because it says both 'Tolkien' and 'Beowulf' on the cover&quot; -- I'm pleased to count myself in that group.)  To be candid, those Tolkien enthusiasts who pick up the volume expecting to find discussions of elves and hobbits will be disappointed.  There are few direct references to Tolkien's better-know fictional works (although there is an interesting extended footnote discussing the relationship of Shakespeare's &quot;King Lear&quot; to certain aspects of &quot;The Lord of the Rings.&quot;)  However, if they press on to fathom Tolkien's concept of what Beowulf's poet was truly saying, then they will be rewarded, I believe, with a deepening of their own appreciation of the world later created by Tolkien.  And, of course, they may come to appreciate &quot;Beowulf&quot; in itself.<br />Students of &quot;Beowulf&quot; will undoubtedly be more directly rewarded by this book that presents insights into the poem (and earlier criticism of that work) not so accessibly set forth in the later, more famous essay.  If nothing else, this work presents an opportunity to once again consider the artistic intent of the Beowulf poet, speaking to us over a gulf of over a thousand years, yet illuminating a tradition of thought and conduct that still influences our modern world.ated by Tolkien.  And, of course, they may come to appreciate &quot;Beowulf&quot; in itself.<br />Students of &quot;Beowulf&quot; will undoubtedly be more directly rewarded by this book that presents insights into the poem (and earlier criticism of that work) not so accessibly set forth in the later, more famous essay.  If nothing else, this work presents an opportunity to once again consider the artistic intent of the Beowulf poet, speaking to us over a gulf of over a thousand years, yet illuminating a tradition of thought and conduct that still influences our modern world.	2004-01-09
US	53057371	R1LIWCCFW9FRS0	0761126066	979907315	A Traveler's Guide to Mars	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A wonderful tour of our most fascinating planetary neighbor	In thruth, I can add little more to the other Amazon reviews other than to say that they are right.  William Hartmann's &quot;A Traveler's Guide to Mars : The Mysterious Landscapes of the Red Planet&quot; is a wonderful tour of Earth's most intriguing planetry neighbor, incorporating both a lively history of our evolving knowledge of Mars and also a up-to-date guide to the most fascinating mysteries.  What are the sources of the strange gullies and canyons that sometimes stretch hundreds of miles?  Why do vast areas of the Martian surface look like gigantic staircases?  How much water is there?<br />The photographs from various interplanetary probes are marvelous and the maps eye-opening.  The format of the book makes it especially suited for browsing -- dipping in here and there as whim takes the reader -- yet it also merits a more methodical approach to discover what four decades of space exploration has taught us about Mars.	2003-12-26
US	53057371	R3F36JKZ21R4MK	0743250346	773909635	The Frumious Bandersnatch (Mcbain, ed)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Yet Another Great 87th Precinct Novel	Through over fifty volumes over nearly fifty years, Ed McBain has been crafting his tales of the 87th Precinct.  And far from running out of steam, the series just gets better.  In \\"The Frumious Bandersnatch\\" (a rising pop diva is launching a new song based, improbably enough, on Lewis Carroll's \\"Jabberwocky\\" poem) Detective Steve Carella is back on center stage to solve a high profile kidnapping.  But we also get to see some of the other regulars -- Cotton Hawes, Bert Kling, Fat Ollie Weeks (showing his new gentle, sensitive side), and Andy Parker (who shows us his old rough, insensitive nature).  Throw in the FBI, music industry people, and the usual selection of criminals and you have another winning 87th Precinct story.  There are some suprises here and there, backed with a narrative showcasing good solid police work.  And McBain has a little fun skewering pundits who insist on reading their own obsessions into the Bandersnatch song.	2003-12-23
US	53057371	R2BX9AFOBKU22W	0618331298	322385556	Tolkien and the Great War: The Threshold of Middle-earth	Books	5	49	53	N	N	A Fresh Look at the Roots of Tolkien's Work	&quot;Tolkien and the Great War: The Threshold of Middle-earth&quot; by John Garth is not a full-scale biography of Tolkien, it is rather an examination of his experiences during World War One and the influence of those experiences upon the development of his writing and concepts behind Middle<br />Earth.  Tolkien himself wrote little directly upon that war, so the reader should not expect a blow-by-blow account of life in the trenches and hospitals.  But Garth has pieced together a reasonably comprehensive picture of the events witnessed by Tolkien and uses this platform for exploration of the writings and, in particular, Tolkien's relationships with a close-knit group of school-friends known as the &quot;TCBS&quot; -- The Tea Club and Barrovian Society, originating as a cluster of like-minded youths at King Edward's School in Birmingham, youths with lofty artistic ambitions and a belief that destiny would indeed carry them to artistic heights.  Tolkien and three close friends were the heart of the TCBS, although there were other associates who shared their views.  The alliances of the TCBS continued even after its members went off to Oxford and Cambridge and, after the war began, into the army and navy.  By the end of the war, as Tolkien was to later comment, all of his close friends but one was dead, and he himself was a partially invalided veteran of the horrific Battle of the Somme.  But the war did not kill the ideals of the TCBS and in many respects Tolkien was to carry them onwards.<br />It is easy today to view the First World War through the lens of unremitting disenchantment and disillusion that dominated the literary picture of that conflict in the late Twenties and Thirties, yet as Garth shows, such a perception is inadequate.  Charles Carrington, an officer in a sister unit to Tolkien's own, was to later write of his assessment of such literature: &quot;Book after book related a succession of disasters and discomforts with no intermission and no gleam of achievement.  Every battle a defeat, every officer a nincompoop, every soldier a coward.&quot;  As Garth writes: &quot;The disenchanted view of the war stripped meaning from what many soldiers saw as the defining experience of their lives.&quot;  It is clear that Tolkien did not belong to this school of utter disenchantment.  Instead, he championed a world view that amid the great horror and wide despair, hope and courage and good could endure, always challenged but never wholly extinguished.  And this, mind you, is not the wishful thinking of a schoolboy, but a considered worldview of a man who has seen the horror at first hand.  Garth believes that it not coincidence that battle plays a central or climatic role in Tolkien's stories.<br />The main literary focus of &quot;Tolkien and the Great War&quot; is not &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot;, written decades later, but instead such earlier writings as &quot;The Book of Lost Tales&quot; that went into creating the world behind LOTR.  Garth discusses the style of prose (and poem) chosen by Tolkien for his works, a style that deliberately rejected what was embraced by Robert Graves and Wilfred Owen and others, who themselves quite deliberately rejected the romantic, heroic,<br />&quot;high diction&quot; style of war writing that had gone before. In writing of &quot;Beowulf&quot;, Tokien later noted: &quot;the development of a form of language familiar in meaning and yet freed of trivial associations, and filled with the memory of good and evil, is an achievement, and its possessors are richer than those who have no such tradition.&quot;<br />Garth's book should be read by anyone wishing to understand the roots of Tolkien's great work, and the light it casts does certainly illuminate certain aspects of \\"The Lord of the Rings\\".  Unlike many studies of the influence of various classic sources upon Tolkien's creation, Garth presents us with a fresh look at direct personal experience upon the author and the creative process.ocess.	2003-12-23
US	53057371	R3GT10KA2EYUUS	0878424687	872284508	Encyclopedia of Indian Wars: Western Battles and Skirmishes, 1850 - 1890	Books	5	36	37	N	N	A unique reference work	For anyone interested in any but the biggest, most famous of battles during the Indian Wars of the last half of the Nineteenth Century, there has been no reference work available to which the interested reader could turn to get the basic facts.  Now, in the &quot;Encyclopedia of Indian Wars: Western Battles and Skirmishes, 1850-1890&quot;, Greg Michno presents concise descriptions of over 600 fights, addressing the who-what-when-where of each incident.  They are chronologically arranged, but keyed to excellent maps that allow the reader to quickly located battles that occurred in any particular region.  Not all the fights involved the US Army; some were waged by volunteer troops or, occasionally, only civilians.  In an appendix, summary statistics are given regarding the the frequency and time distribution of the battles, what Army units were involved, and what level of casualties were inflicted on both sides.	2003-11-26
US	53057371	R2OQ76VYZCY7M1	0811700607	228175836	Alamo Reader	Books	5	27	30	N	N	A great resource for the serious Alamo student	No reader without at least a basic understanding of the events and personalities connected with the Alamo battle should tackle Todd Hansen's &quot;The Alamo Reader&quot;, but once a decent grounding in the history of that famous fight has been acquired -- and if that reader really wants to understand what happened -- then Hansen's book is a marvelous resource.  An extraordinary range of primary source material is presented in the volume, and not just excerpts from one version of an eyewitness's account, but the whole of every variation.  Hansen provides commentaries to help evaluate these sources for reliability, but the final evaluation of which to accept and which to reject is left to the judgment of the reader.  Analytical essays by various noted Alamo experts are also provided for additional illumination.  There has been nothing like this ever published about the Alamo before (and seldom about any other historical topic), and I cannot conceive how anyone seriously interested in the Alamo could not want a copy of Hansen's book on their shelves.	2003-11-12
US	53057371	RML6R6P0ACKCF	0679456716	677265694	Castles of Steel: Britain, Germany, and the Winning of the Great War at Sea	Books	5	40	44	N	N	A compelling history of the Great War at sea	I would think that anyone who read and liked Robert Massie's \\"Dreadnought\\" should appreciate his new \\"Castles of Steel: Britain, Germany, and the Winning of the Great War at Sea\\".  As in the earlier book, although the ships and navies of the two rival nations are always at center stage, it is the people who built those ships and directed their activities and operated them and - in this book - fought them that really make the text vivid.  And what personalities!  Winston Churchill, the extraordinary Jacky Fisher who was the true father of the Dreadnought-type battleships that defined the era, the glamorous Admiral David Beatty who captivated the British public, Kaiser Wilhelm, Admiral Franz von Hipper ...  If anything, the narrative in \\"Castles of Steel\\" is even more compelling than that of the first book because it deals with the drama and chaos of World War One itself.  Massie's narrative lucidly explains the course of the naval war from the very opening days until the German High Seas Fleet scuttled itself after the conclusion of hostilities to prevent its delivery to its enemies.  Along the way, several complex, controversial episodes are examined, including the disastrous Gallipoli Campaign and the Battle of Jutland, the great clash of battle fleets towards which decades of naval technical development had been aimed.  Massie does not shy away from exploring the bitter in-fighting that erupted after the guns of battle had fallen silent, and he appears to present the arguments on both sides of controversies fairly.  Although his portrait of Winston Churchill as First Lord of the Admiralty is as an ambitious politician whose directives sometimes seeded chaos rather than order, Massie by no means holds Churchill solely or perhaps even chiefly responsible for the Gallipoli debacle.  The admirals and generals on the spot are shown to have repeatedly erred and provided London with faulty advice.  With Jutland, Massie's basic sympathy is clearly with the quiet, somewhat cautious Jellicoe rather than with his flamboyant subordinate, David Beatty, who according to Massie later did much to rob Jellicoe of deserved credit while evading blame for his own errors.  Although the great dreadnoughts and battle cruisers - the \\"castles of steel\\" of the title - are never far from the main narrative thrust, U-boat warfare and diplomatic maneuvering (and the politics of the British Admiralty) are given their due.<br />Although a long book at over 800 pages, \\"Castles of Steel\\" is nonetheless a powerful, fast-moving history of naval warfare as it emerged into the modern era of steel and radio.cautious Jellicoe rather than with his flamboyant subordinate, David Beatty, who according to Massie later did much to rob Jellicoe of deserved credit while evading blame for his own errors.  Although the great dreadnoughts and battle cruisers - the \\"castles of steel\\" of the title - are never far from the main narrative thrust, U-boat warfare and diplomatic maneuvering (and the politics of the British Admiralty) are given their due.<br />Although a long book at over 800 pages, \\"Castles of Steel\\" is nonetheless a powerful, fast-moving history of naval warfare as it emerged into the modern era of steel and radio.	2003-11-06
US	53057371	R1SBY626E3W0DD	1591144035	81858501	Jack Aubrey Commands: An Historical Companion to the Naval World of Patrick O'Brian	Books	5	141	142	N	Y	A solid primer on the Royal Navy of Jack Aubrey	Brian Lavery is the author of the thoroughly excellent &quot;Nelson's Navy&quot;, praised by Patrick O'Brian as the most nearly royal road to knowledge about the Royal Navy of the 1793-18115 period he knew.  Lavery's new book, &quot;Jack Aubrey's Commands: A Historical Companion to the Naval World of Patrick O'Brian&quot;, is quite evidently tied to the release of the film &quot;Master and Commander: The Far Side of the World&quot;, based upon O'Brian's novels -- the book's foreword, after all, was written by Peter Weir. the director of the movie.  But the book is at least as much directed towards the readers of O'Brian's novels as to viewers of the film (and more so, I would argue), and it should be equally enticing for those simply interested in that historical era.  To be sure, Lavery's &quot;Nelson's Navy&quot; is an excellent reference book that contains far more detailed information than the present work, but &quot;Jack Aubrey's Commands&quot; is written in a more approachable style for the general reader, with a text that is meant to be read as a continuous whole, rather than as a collection of  details and essays.  Its particular strength lies in the numerous and lengthy quotes taken from contemporary sources, making the narrative more vivid and easy to relate to a living world long vanished.  In this regard, &quot;Jack Aubrey's Commands&quot; serves as a companion to Lavery's own &quot;Nelson's Navy&quot; as well as to the novels of Patrick O'Brian.<br />Someone recently asked me whether it was better to buy &quot;Jack Aubrey's Commands&quot; or Richard O'Neill's recent &quot;Patrick O'Brian's Navy: Jack Aubrey's World&quot;.  Putting the obvious answer of &quot;Buy both of them!&quot; aside (and assuming that the reader already has Lavery's &quot;Nelson's Navy&quot; or feels that this earlier work is as yet too formidable to approach), then my recommendation would depend on the reader's personal preferences.  Both volumes contain a good detail of information about the Royal Navy of Jack Aubrey's era.  O'Neill's book is especially strong in the area of excellent period illustrations, Lavery's in the direction of narrative strength.  The first is perhaps best for repeated browsing, the latter for a straightforward read.on about the Royal Navy of Jack Aubrey's era.  O'Neill's book is especially strong in the area of excellent period illustrations, Lavery's in the direction of narrative strength.  The first is perhaps best for repeated browsing, the latter for a straightforward read.	2003-11-02
US	53057371	R1N8W44YR87R66	1582341931	746786501	The Billy Ruffian: The Bellerophon and the Downfall of Napoleon	Books	5	19	19	N	N	A biography of a ship and the men who served on her	HMS Bellerophon - commonly known as the \\"Billy Ruffian\\" by Royal Navy sailors who inevitably turned any classical reference into something more humble and easier on the tongue - was in most respects a typical 74-gun ship-of-the-line during the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic Wars.  And she is the focus of a new \\"biography\\" written by David Cordingly: \\"The Billy Riffian: The Bellerophon and the Downfall of Napoleon, The Biography of a Ship of the Line, 1782-1836\\".  Codringly is no stranger to nautical studies, with both his \\"Under the Black Flag\\" (about pirates) and \\"Women Sailors and Sailors' Women\\" having been well received.  Where the Bellerophon perhaps departed from the typical ship-of-the-line was her knack at being involved in important events.  Not only was she at the Glorious First of June victory in 1794, the \\"Billy Ruffian\\" did some of the very hardest fighting at both the Nile and Trafalgar.  And she was quite literally at the end of the Napoleonic Wars, for it was aboard the Bellerophon in 1815 that the French emperor presented himself for surrender after Waterloo.  In between these great events, the ship served a more prosaic career, including blockade and convoy duty, sailing in the waters of the Caribbean and Baltic as well as the Mediterranean and North Atlantic.<br />Codringly's history covers not only the war years, however, but starts when she was ordered to be built in 1782 and follows her through construction and the 1786 launch and then as part of the Royal Navy's fleet of ships in ordinary before the outbreak of the French wars in 1793.  And it extends beyond the end of those wars when the Bellerophon served less happily as a prison hulk, straight out of a Dickens novel.  Finally, in 1836 the old ship was sold to a shipbreaker's yard for dismantling, and Codringly invokes the famous JMW Turner painting of \\"The Fighting Temeraire\\" being ingloriously hauled off to the same fate two years later.<br />\\"The Billy Ruffian\\" is not just a history of a machine built from wood and iron and rope and sailcloth, of course.  The men who served aboard her and the events that embraced them are the real heart of the narrative, and the reader becomes well familiar with a good cross-section of real Royal Navy seamen who fictional counterparts people the novels of Patrick O'Brian, C.S. Forester, Dudley Pope and others.  Although primarily a narrative text, there are sufficient illustrations provided so that both the ship and the events can be readily visualized.  Codringly's prose flows easily, filled with lively details.  The result is a book that can be enjoyed not only by the nautical enthusiast, but also by more general readers who simply want a slice of history vividly realized.of a machine built from wood and iron and rope and sailcloth, of course.  The men who served aboard her and the events that embraced them are the real heart of the narrative, and the reader becomes well familiar with a good cross-section of real Royal Navy seamen who fictional counterparts people the novels of Patrick O'Brian, C.S. Forester, Dudley Pope and others.  Although primarily a narrative text, there are sufficient illustrations provided so that both the ship and the events can be readily visualized.  Codringly's prose flows easily, filled with lively details.  The result is a book that can be enjoyed not only by the nautical enthusiast, but also by more general readers who simply want a slice of history vividly realized.	2003-10-21
US	53057371	R2Q3NZJEIWE2O1	0762415401	114075092	Patrick O'Brian's Navy: The Illustrated Companion to Jack Aubrey's World	Books	5	205	208	N	N	A beautiful companion to Patrick O'Brian's fiction	\\"Patrick O'Brian's Navy: The Illustrated Companion to Jack Aubrey's World\\" is one of those books that doesn't really have an author.  Richard O'Neill is listed as the Consulting Editor, but the Editor and Indexer is Philip de Ste. Croix, and there are a number of \\"Contributors\\" including David Miller, who has his own Jack Aubrey-related book coming out soon (\\"The World of Jack Aubrey\\").<br />This is a handsome coffee table-size volume, about 150 pages long, and heavily illustrated.  The illustrations may be its strongest point - hundreds of them, mostly contemporary to Jack Aubrey's era and mostly reproduced in vivid color.  I have seen many of them before, but usually in black-and-white, so even just on this score, \\"Patrick O'Brian's Navy\\" is an attractive addition to a historical nautical library.  And there are some modern illustrations as well, usually in the form of diagrams to show complex information such as sail and rigging designations, crew assignments, and the arrangement of watches.  Other data is conveyed in tabular form, like those for uniform details, prize money distribution, and crew organization for various ship classes.<br />Although the primary focus is upon the Royal Navy, there are also chapters devoted to what might be called the geo-political world of the Napoleonic Era.  There is a conscious effort to tie all this to Jack Aubrey and the O'Brian novels, with the text, detailing historical events in which Jack took part (including those before the start of the book series) and occasionally providing sidebars titled \\"Through Aubrey's Eyes\\" that relate particular subjects to volume and chapter of the novels.  Although the overall level of information presented cannot equal that in Brian Lavery's \\"Nelson's Navy\\", this is nonetheless an interesting compendium of facts and anecdotes.<br />There are also two short addendums: \\"A Cast of Characters\\" listing the major people and ships in the O'Brian novels and describing their actions and fates, and a Glossary of nautical terms and slang.a Glossary of nautical terms and slang.	2003-09-04
US	53057371	R3P0KNEFAQRTHI	1841766305	260251634	New Vanguard 79: American Heavy Frigates 1794-1826	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	Concise but comprehensive history of a great ship type	\\"American Heavy Frigates, 1794-1826\\" by Mark Lardas is one of the innumerable Osprey paperbacks, packed with illustrations and aimed at presenting a study of one particular slice of military history.  In this case, it is part of the New Vanguard series about \\"The design, development, operation and history in the machinery of warfare through the ages,\\" and the weapons system presented in Lardas's book is epitomized by arguably the most famous American warship of all time: the USS Constitution, Old Ironsides.  But \\"American Heavy Frigates\\" goes well beyond that single vessel or even the War of 1812.  Instead, we are treated to concise although comprehensive survey history of the design and development of the ship type, including a discussion of foreign influences, from Joshua Humphreys' proposal in 1793 that  \\"as our navy for a considerable time will be inferior in numbers we must consider what size ships will be an overmatch for those of an enemy ...\\" until the last American sailing heavy frigates (USS Santee and Sabine) were launched in 1855.  Too often we forget that this ship type in the US Navy was not limited to the Constitution and her two sister ships (President and United States) but included over a dozen other vessels of similar design, the backbone of the American navy through the Mexican War and beyond.  Lardas discusses the origin, operational history, and eventual fate of each heavy frigate.  Most of the illustrations are black-and-white reproductions of contemporary paintings or engravings of the ships, although the color section includes an excellent detailed three-dimensional cutaway drawing of Old Ironsides.  \\"American Heavy Frigates\\" is a slender volume (only 48 pages) but a worthy addition to any library of books about the Age of Fighting Sail.	2003-08-29
US	53057371	R2G69F40YWGAFH	0786711477	913565174	The Bloody Crucible of Courage: Fighting Methods and Combat Experience of the Civil War	Books	5	38	46	N	N	A superlative study of Civil War combat	I will start out by admitting a personal interest in Brent Nosworthy's \\"The Bloody Crucible of Courage: Fighting Methods and Combat Experience of the Civil War\\".  For several years I have aided Mr. Nosworthy in researching this book and by reading various drafts as it evolved.  He delved deep into standard material such as personal memoirs and the Official Record's (CD-ROM searches in those 100,000-plus pages proved of immense value in the course of the research, allowing for a completeness of inquiry simply not possible before), and also into seldom-used sources such as \\"Scientific American\\" and the Fall River, Massachusetts, \\"Manufacturer and Farmer's Journal\\" for a mid-Ninteenth Century perspective as he examined weapons technology and tactical theory, implementation, and evolution.<br />It is no wonder that Joseph Bilby says: \\"This is a landmark work that establishes a new standard of excellence.  No future Civil War campaign or battle study will be written without extensive reference to The Bloody Crucible of Courage.\\"  Gordon Rhea states it \\"deserves an honored place on the shelf of every Civil War scholar and buff.\\"  And Paddy Griffith writes;\\" The Bloody Crucible of Courage\\" is indeed the book we have long been waiting for!  It is essential reading, not least for the wider European perspective that it casts upon a war that has too often in the past been viewed through very parochial spectacles.  And beyond that refreshing historiographical perspective, this work also offers us a truly magnificent quarry of facts, explanations and pertinent interpretations that every student of the Civil War will surely want to keep constantly at hand.\\"  Often I take such dust jacket blurbs with a grain of salt, but this is one case where I will gladly support the opinions expressed.<br />This is not a dry, encyclopedic recounting of weapons specifications or tactical minutiae of how the third sergeant should move when a company changes from line of battle to a column of fours by the left flank.  Rather, it is a highly readable work that ranges far and wide across infantry, artillery, cavalry and even naval forces, exploring how combat was really conducted and how that came about, looking at the roots of the weapons and tactical systems in Europe as well as in the US, and following the lengthy and often heated debates that were waged during the 1850's and well into the war over these matters.  These discussions are illuminated by numerous battlefield examples of the use of these weapons and tactics, vividly described.  Probably no such debate was more crucial than that over the best shoulder weapon to be issued to infantry: rifled versus smoothbore, muzzleloading versus breechloading.  And contrary to modern assumptions, the choice was not at the time altogether straightforward and obvious, even given the experience of recent European wars.  One of the intriguing elements that arises from Nosworthy's analysis of these matters is that he tentatively concludes that, for reasons still not entirely understood, in general American troops appeared to achieve better results (i.e., inflicted higher numbers of losses) than their European counterparts, whether using smoothbores or rifle-muskets.<br />This book has been a long time coming. The very first time I contacted Brent Nosworthy, whose name I knew from his excellent book on Napoleonic warfare, was to ask him whether some day he might write a similar one on American Civil War tactics.  Little did I know where this simple question would eventually lead.  \\"The Bloody Crucible of Courage\\" is a book I am proud to have helped in any fashion to come into being.  There has never been a comparable work published about the Civil War, and I am confident that it will do much to shape our future perceptions and study of that conflict.  It gets my highest recommendation.s by the left flank.  Rather, it is a highly readable work that ranges far and wide across infantry, artillery, cavalry and even naval forces, exploring how combat was really conducted and how that came about, looking at the roots of the weapons and tactical systems in Europe as well as in the US, and following the lengthy and often heated debates that were waged during the 1850's and well into the war over these matters.  These discussions are illuminated by numerous battlefield examples of the use of these weapons and tactics, vividly described.  Probably no such debate was more crucial than that over the best shoulder weapon to be issued to infantry: rifled versus smoothbore, muzzleloading versus breechloading.  And contrary to modern assumptions, the choice was not at the time altogether straightforward and obvious, even given the experience of recent European wars.  One of the intriguing elements that arises from Nosworthy's analysis of these matters is that he tentatively concludes that, for reasons still not entirely understood, in general American troops appeared to achieve better results (i.e., inflicted higher numbers of losses) than their European counterparts, whether using smoothbores or rifle-muskets.<br />This book has been a long time coming. The very first time I contacted Brent Nosworthy, whose name I knew from his excellent book on Napoleonic warfare, was to ask him whether some day he might write a similar one on American Civil War tactics.  Little did I know where this simple question would eventually lead.  \\"The Bloody Crucible of Courage\\" is a book I am proud to have helped in any fashion to come into being.  There has never been a comparable work published about the Civil War, and I am confident that it will do much to shape our future perceptions and study of that conflict.  It gets my highest recommendation.	2003-07-05
US	53057371	RNM9U3RFWQFB9	1580801110	988380824	Gettysburg: You are There	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A unique look at a great Civil War battle	Considering the extraordinary number of books published about the American Civil War, it is unusual when some previously unexplored niche is found by yet another new volume.  But Robert Clasby's \\"Gettysburg: You Are There\\" is such a work.  The heart of Clasby's book is formed by 15 photographs, 15 large computer enhanced and mainipulated images.  In each case Clasby started with a modern photograph of a key combat site during the Gettysburg battle, ranging from Buford's defensive action on McPherson Ridge to the Angle of the third day's fighting.  He then, with computer graphics, subtracted away or covered up post-battle clutter - monuments, roads, buildings - and then meticulously added photographs of reenactors taken upon many occasions, building up a reconstruction of what the fighting would have looked like in 1863: lines of battle, artillery batteries, dead soldiers in the fields.  It's as close a photograph approach to depicting actual combat during the Gettysburg battle as anyone has yet achieved.  I will not claim that the end results would be readily mistaken for something shot from the window of a time machine - the uniforms are too neat and clean, the flags too crisp, the smoke too sparse, the grass too green, plowed ground too untrampled.  Overall, the impact is perhaps one of exceptionally good graphics from a new Civil War computer game rather than actual battlefield combat photography, but Clasby's efforts have produced something nonetheless worth looking at.  Given National Park Service restrictions, it is unlikely that we will otherwise ever see hordes of musket-firing reenactors amidst the rocks of the Devils Den.<br />Being a student of the 14th Connecticut Infantry, a regiment which defended the stretch of stone wall immediately north of the Angle during the July 3rd charge, I was pleased to see two of Clasby's photographs showing that position, including one quite literally from over the shoulders of the Connecticut men towards the advancing Confederates.onfederates.	2003-05-23
US	53057371	R1DWJB75PITASI	0312301863	693950856	The Deserter: Murder at Gettysburg	Books	5	20	20	N	N	A Jane Langton mystery -- must more be said?	I don't read a great many mystery novels, although there are a few authors for whom I keep an eye open.  Jane Langton is one of that small group.  Her mysteries are far from any stereotype of hard-bitten private eye or police detective tales.  Langton's books are quirky and literate, peopled by eccentric characters and, more often than not, deeply linked to some aspect of history.  All involve Homer and Mary Kelly (both are Harvard professors, although Homer is also a former policeman) but usually the Kellys are less the center of the story than the means through which it is told.  Mary Kelly, it turns out, has an ancestor who evidently did something terribly shameful during the Civil War, the details lost in family silence.  Sparked by contemplation of Harvard's grand Memorial Hall, dedicated to the memory of those Harvard men who died fighting for the Union in the Civil War, the Kellys begin researching why great-great-grandfather Seth Morgan's name became shrouded in such disgrace.  And it soon becomes apparent that the heart of the mystery lies at Gettysburg where Morgan's regiment, the 2nd Massachusetts Infantry, made a futile, bloody attack on Confederate works near Culp's Hill on the morning of the third day of battle.  The novel's narrative switches back and forth from the present, with Homer and Mary delving into libraries and records depositories and family attics, to 1863 where we see the battle through the eyes of a scapegrace soldier and then the battle's dreadful aftermath of pain and suffering as Morgan's pregnant wife searches through hospitals for her vanished husband.  For those of us who are students of that Civil War battle, the fictional detectives' excursion to Gettysburg will bring nods of recognition when they make the long walk from Lee's statue across the wide fields to that low stone wall on the other side of the Emmitsburg Road, marveling at the odd beauty of lines of cannons, and later when they encounter the less than scrupulous proprietor of Bart's Battle Flag Books where not all artifacts may be quite what Bart claims they are (and where Mary is astonished that so many books could be written about the Civil War).<br />Jane Langton is a gifted, somewhat unconventional writer who here has created strong images of the terror of the battlefield and the horror of the hospitals.  And late in the book she crafts an extraordinary interlude when Homer Kelly returns to Harvard's Memorial Hall, today doing service as the freshmen dining hall, and envisions a magical dissolution of the gulf in time separating the current generation of heedless students eating sloppy joes there from the men commemorated about them in stone and stained glass, like Strong Vincent at Little Round Top and Robert Gould Shaw of Fort Wagner and Charles Russell Lowell at Cedar Creek, torn and bleeding bodies suddenly hoisted on to the tables amidst chicken fingers and Diet Coke.  It is a powerful, eloquent moment, calling upon all of us to remember and understand.etor of Bart's Battle Flag Books where not all artifacts may be quite what Bart claims they are (and where Mary is astonished that so many books could be written about the Civil War).<br />Jane Langton is a gifted, somewhat unconventional writer who here has created strong images of the terror of the battlefield and the horror of the hospitals.  And late in the book she crafts an extraordinary interlude when Homer Kelly returns to Harvard's Memorial Hall, today doing service as the freshmen dining hall, and envisions a magical dissolution of the gulf in time separating the current generation of heedless students eating sloppy joes there from the men commemorated about them in stone and stained glass, like Strong Vincent at Little Round Top and Robert Gould Shaw of Fort Wagner and Charles Russell Lowell at Cedar Creek, torn and bleeding bodies suddenly hoisted on to the tables amidst chicken fingers and Diet Coke.  It is a powerful, eloquent moment, calling upon all of us to remember and understand.	2003-05-16
US	53057371	R2B0EB0F1V2BIQ	0345452550	330974377	A Cold Heart: An Alex Delaware Novel	Books	5	38	40	N	N	An Alex Delaware novel -- what else do you need to know?	Jonathan Kellerman has written yet another page-turner mystery thriller centered around psychologist Alexander Delaware.  As usual, Kellerman vividly draws the cast of supporting characters and, as might be expected from an author who is also a psychologist himself, his depictions of \ interactions between the characters abound with rich detail.  In the present novel, A Cold Heart, musicians and artists are being murdered, but are the possible connections between the crimes only illusions of coincidence or is a serial killer at work?<br />Kellerman has taken pains over the past several years to ensure that this series of novels do not merely travel along in a comfortable rut.  In Billy Straight Kellerman abandoned his usual first person narrative through the eyes of Delaware to use a third person voice to tell his story from the perspectives of his title character, a runaway boy, and of Petra Connor, a police detective.  In that novel, Delaware was relegated to a minor role.  More recently in The Murder Book Kellerman mixed his usual first person Delaware narrative with a third person voice from the viewpoint of Milo Sturgis, Delawares police detective friend.  The author extends this technique in his latest novel, this time blending Delawares narrative with third person chapters primarily centered on Petra Connor, but occasionally switching to a broader viewpoint to depict other activities.  Sporadically, the reader may become confused as to exactly who knows what at any given time, since there are multiple, overlapping investigations in progress, but eventually matters clarify on the way to a dramatic climax.<br />There is another carryover from recent novels, too.  Delawares relationship with his longtime live-in lover, Robin Castagna, has become increasingly strained and in A Cold Heart this storyline is carried forward against a crime background that this time affects Robin directly, through her connections to the music world.<br />I enthusiastically recommend this novel to confirmed fans of Kellermans Delaware novels, but because of plot elements that continue and develop through the series, I suggest readers new to Kellerman start with earlier books in the series and work their way forward.<br />I enthusiastically recommend this novel to confirmed fans of Kellermans Delaware novels, but because of plot elements that continue and develop through the series, I suggest readers new to Kellerman start with earlier books in the series and work their way forward.	2003-05-08
US	53057371	RZHYPP10NV94Y	006019443X	496102452	The Sinister Pig	Books	4	46	48	N	N	Good, but not the best Hillerman	\\"The Sinister Pig\\" is another in Hillerman's long-running series of mystery novels centering upon the now retired, but hardly inactive, Lieutenant Joe Leaphorn and Sergeant Jim Chee of the Navajo Tribal Police.  This time the plot is in part inspired by the continuing scandal over the mismanagement - embezzlement and outright theft may be closer to the point - of funds due to Southwest Indian tribes for oil, gas, and coal taken from their reservations under Federal auspices.  An investigator sent by a powerful Washington, DC, senator to nose around turns up dead with a bullet in his back.  It is Jim Chee's case - or at least as much of the case as the FBI will let him handle - but it is immediately clear that somebody with high connections back in Washington wants the investigation squelched.<br />Meanwhile, Jim Chee has something else on his mind.  Bernadette Manuelito, formerly an officer in the Navajo Tribal Police, has taken a new job with the Border Patrol, 200 miles away, just when Chee was working up his resolve to make his personal interest clear to her.  And now Bernie has stumbled on some mysterious goings-on along the Mexican border that might tie in to the unsolved murder back home.<br />Hillerman departs somewhat from his usual format by writing several chapters from outside the viewpoint of Leaphorn and Chee (and Bernie Manuelito).  Unlike in most Hillerman novels, we very quickly learn who the bad guys are, although a mystery remains until the final chapters as to exactly what they are doing.  In general Hillerman's villains are not especially villainous, their motivations often arising from quite ordinary circumstances that lead them into crimes they never intended.  But in \\"The Sinister Pig\\" the chief villain is as close to plain evil as Hillerman is ever likely to get.<br />One disappointment: an element which usually sets Hillerman's mystery novels apart from all others is their exploration of the culture and religion of the Navajos and their Indian neighbors, this being integral to the book plot and often crucial to the solution of the mystery at hand.  In the present novel we see almost nothing of this, except for some peripheral matters that only touch upon Jim Chee himself.  Washington powerbrokers are a less engaging group than the people of the Big Rez.<br />\\"The Sinister Pig\\" is not the best of Hillerman, to be sure, and it might be argued that it works primarily as simply being part of a continuing series about characters to whom we have come to feel close over the years.  But a Hillerman book that is not amongst his best work is still a good mystery.  And readers who count Joe Leaphorn and Jim Chee as literary friends will want to find what has now happened in their personal lives.<br />Hillerman's Navajo novels have continuing background stories that develop from novel to novel over time.  Therefore, readers new to Hillerman would be well advised to begin not with this latest novel but back at the beginning of the series, getting to know the characters as their lives evolve.  There's plenty of good reading to be had along the way.dian neighbors, this being integral to the book plot and often crucial to the solution of the mystery at hand.  In the present novel we see almost nothing of this, except for some peripheral matters that only touch upon Jim Chee himself.   Washington powerbrokers are a less engaging group than the people of the Big Rez.<br />\\"The Sinister Pig\\" is not the best of Hillerman, to be sure, and it might be argued that it works primarily as simply being part of a continuing series about characters to whom we have come to feel close over the years.  But a Hillerman book that is not amongst his best work is still a good mystery.  And readers who count Joe Leaphorn and Jim Chee as literary friends will want to find what has now happened in their personal lives.<br />Hillerman's Navajo novels have continuing background stories that develop from novel to novel over time.  Therefore, readers new to Hillerman would be well advised to begin not with this latest novel but back at the beginning of the series, getting to know the characters as their lives evolve.  There's plenty of good reading to be had along the way.	2003-05-08
US	53057371	R3FXA3F0SQACKS	0892967870	523206825	Money for Nothing	Books	4	10	10	N	N	An amusing, engrossing spy romp	For seven years, each month Josh Redmont has been cashing thousand dollar checks from an unknown benefactor.  Money for nothing.  Until one day a mysterious stranger arrives to \\"activate\\" him, to become a spy for the Ukraine.  The Ukraine?  Well, Russia didn't get everything after the breakup of the Soviet Union, and in this case the Ukraine inherited a unwitting spy who is now expected to do something very deadly as payback for all that money.<br />I will not claim that \\"Money for Nothing\\" packs the emotional punch of Westlake's \\"The Ax\\" or \\"The Hook\\" or that it is quite so funny as the wonderful, googy Dortmunder books.  But \\"Money for Nothing\\" is still an interesting read about a rather average guy who finds himself in a very deadly situation.  Make no mistake about it, there is a very palpable sense of menace lurking here, and it is entirely believable that the real cost of the \\"money for nothing\\" may be the lives of Josh, his wife, and his son.  There was enough suspense generated to keep me eagerly turning the pages to find out what would happen next. As good as \\"the Ax\\"?  No.  But good nonetheless?  Definitely yes.	2003-04-18
US	53057371	R1A96BIGX3EZW7	0066210127	125228609	The Way of a Ship: A Square-Rigger Voyage in the Last Days of Sail	Books	5	26	26	N	N	A compelling blend of maritime history and nautical fiction	Derek Lundy's \\"The Way of a Ship: A Square-Rigger Voyage in the Last Days of Sail\\" is in large part a history of blue-water merchant shipping in the late Nineteenth Century with a particular focus on those ships rounding Cape Horn, along with literary meditations by the author upon the works of Melville and Dana and Conrad.  But interleaved with the history is Lundy's account of an imagined 1885 voyage around the Horn by his great-great-uncle Benjamin aboard the fictional 4-masted barque Beara Head.  It is a harrowing, but by no means atypical voyage aboard a giant iron-hulled square-rigger of the era, its crew kept small by the owners' economies necessary to compete with steamships.  This novel-within-a-history is a useful device for conveying the harsh realities of life aboard such a vessel, and Lundy is well up to the challenge of portraying ships and the sea in convincing, highly vivid detail.  This will come as no surprise to readers of his earlier book, \\"Godforsaken Sea: Racing the World's Most Dangerous Waters\\", about the 1996 Vendee Globe race.<br />The spark that drove Lundy to write this book is a simple (and perhaps unanswerable) question: how were his great-great-uncle and men like him able to challenge Cape Horn?  Even with the strong iron hulls and wire rigging of the 1880's, Cape Horn killed men and ships with a regularity that would dismay the modern world.  And if wind and wave were not enemies enough, then inadequate food, terrible living conditions, and hard-driving captains and mates would supply sufficient misery to seemingly make any rational man balk from voluntarily undertaking such a voyage.  Of course, not all the seaman aboard were willing volunteers, dockside \\"crimps\\" if necessary supplied the required number of drugged and drunken men to fill the meager crew rosters permitted by penny-pinching owners.  No records other than family stories and a few old letters survive to chronicle Benjamin Lundy's actual experiences or even to name the ships he sailed on, so his great-great-nephew to better understand the man and others of his ilk decided to reconstruct what his first ocean-crossing voyage might have been like, aboard a square-rigger carrying coal from England to Valpariso, Chile.  Coal might seem at first thought an innocuous enough cargo, but in fact it was not.  Coal, especially damp coal, often ignited by spontaneous combustion during these lengthy voyages and sometimes even exploded.  Very probably quite a few of those big sailing merchantmen that mysteriously vanished at sea were victims of such slow, secret heating, deep in their black holds.  Although the young Ulsterman Lundy is a veteran of the coastal trade, the challenges of working such a deep-sea merchantmen were beyond both his experience and his imagination.  Derek Lundy crafted his story after intensive research that stretched to include sailing some of the same waters himself, although the author confesses a disappointed relief in not encountering a real gale off Cape Horn.<br />Between the fiction chapters, Lundy delves into the history of rounding Cape Horn going back to the days of Raleigh and Anson, and of the struggle against a foe even more deadly than the Cape itself: scurvy.  He also explores that strange age of transition in the late Nineteenth Century when long distance bulk cargo sailing ships were still battling against the steamers that had already come to dominate shorter routes and the passenger business.  Iron (and, later, steel) hulls made possible sailing vessels of a size previously unachievable, so large that even the traditional three masts of ships had to multiply in order to carry sufficient canvas.  Merely increasing the size of individual masts and sails proved impractical.  As masts grew taller and yards wider, the proportionately larger sails became too hard for the crews to handle.  Topsails and topgallantsails were split horizontally into separate upper and lower halves with their own yards, creating the wide but shallow sails so characteristic of photographs of the big merchantmen of this time.<br />This combination of maritime history and nautical fiction makes for compelling, insightful reading.  Lundy well conveys the misery, the fear, the fatigue, the excitement, and even the occasional exhilaration of an experience that would otherwise lie beyond the boundaries of our own lives.the wide but shallow sails so characteristic of photographs of the big merchantmen of this time.<br />This combination of maritime history and nautical fiction makes for compelling, insightful reading.  Lundy well conveys the misery, the fear, the fatigue, the excitement, and even the occasional exhilaration of an experience that would otherwise lie beyond the boundaries of our own lives.	2003-04-14
US	53057371	R1K57P5R1T3YK9	0743232836	363718933	A Hanging Offense: The Strange Affair of the Warship Somers	Books	5	20	20	N	N	A credible account of an incredible event	Could there be a more preposterous, overly melodramatic fictional plot than a scenario where during a peacetime cruise a commanding naval officer deliberately puts to death without trial a junior subordinate officer, a subordinate who just happens to be the son of a member of the President's Cabinet?  Yet, of course, that is no fictional plot, but exactly what happened aboard the USS Somers in 1842 when Commander Alexander Slidell Mackenzie hanged Acting Midshipman Philip Spencer, the son of the serving Secretary of War, and two other men for reputedly planning a mutiny to kill the other ship's officers and carry the brig off into a career of piracy.  Ever since, questions linger.  Was young Spencer's plot merely a bizarre fantasy, or did he really plan to kill his captain and the other senior officers?  Was Mackenzie justified in sidestepping normal procedure to hang men without trial, or did he and his fellow officers succumb to panic and execute innocent men?  The Somers, of course, was not wholly a typical man-of-war on the voyage in question, and that was perhaps a vital element in the background to the mutiny (or whatever it was) and its aftermath.  Except for the handful of officers and a small cadre of experienced seamen, almost the entire crew of the brig was composed of youths fresh off training ships, sent to sea on the Somers to gain practical experience.  As such, they were perhaps more vulnerable to the blandishments of an erratic midshipman than seasoned sailors would have been.  Yet, it was two of the experienced hands who were hanged along with young Spencer, one protesting his innocence and the other apparently conceding his guilt.  A vital element of the circumstances was that the Somers carried no marines, the usual bulwark against a mutinous crew.  The tale did not end with Mackenzie's suppression of unrest aboard his ship.  His actions would have certainly been questioned in any case, but the fact that Spencer's father was Secretary of War guaranteed that Mackenzie would be charged with illegal, murderous behavior.  Inevitably, a court-martial followed.<br />Buckner Melton, Jr., a law professor at the University of North Carolina and author of a book last year about the mysterious machinations of Aaron Burr on the Western frontier in the early Nineteenth Century, has just published \\"A Hanging Offense: The Strange Affair of the Warship Somers.\\"  It's a solid account of the affair written in a lively style aiming to capture the atmosphere - social, political, and physical - surrounding the events.  He takes special care to describe the particular world of a naval warship during the Age of Sail and the unique power and responsibilities of a commanding officer, and in general he is successful in this.  I must note, however, one small slip that caused me to frown.  In describing the Somers, he mentions her armament: 32-pounders, more powerful than any land field artillery and longer ranged too.  The brig's 32-pounders, however, were carronades whose short barrels also made them short ranged, despite their ability to inflict severe damage at close quarters.  A 32-pound carronade was credited with a range of 1087 yards at a 5 degree elevation.  The standard US Army 1841 6-pounder smoothbore field artillery piece had a range of 1500 yards at that same 5 degrees elevation.  Leaving that largely irrelevant detail aside, Melton's account gives a satisfactory picture of this world-in-miniature that was so violently disrupted by these controversial events.  He is quite evidently sympathetic to Commander Mackenzie's plight, and I believe he is right in finding insights into young Spencer's behavior by looking at much-publicized school violence incidents in recent years.  From Columbine to the Somers may not be an overly long step.<br />In short, I find Melton's portrayal of the events and personalities to be persuasive.  As he himself acknowledges in an epilogue, there can be no final answers to the questions raised, but I believe that Melton has come about as close as we can ever expect., but I believe that Melton has come about as close as we can ever expect.	2003-03-29
US	53057371	R10802VIR49ZOK	155750167X	880809374	Splintering the Wooden Wall: The British Blockade of the United States, 1812-1815	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A highly important study of the naval War of 1812	Wade G. Dudleys Splintering the Wooden Wall may be the most perceptive book about the naval War of 1812 I have yet read, and it offers substantial insights about the Royal Navys role in the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic Wars as well.  This is not a vivid history of dramatic single-ship actions, nor does it study of great fleet actions.  Its subtitle  The British Blockade of the United States, 1812-1815  defines its central focus, but as background to this subject Dudley provides a study of the evolution of blockades as practiced by the Royal Navy, from the early, tentative efforts in the English Civil War and the Anglo-Dutch Wars of the 17th Century through the Seven Years War in the mid-18th Century (during which Admiral Sir Edward Hawke carried out the first genuinely extended blockade, off Brest, for six months in 1759) to the vast complex operations off the French coast from 1793 to 1815.  Dudley demonstrates that the Royal Navys ability to conduct long-term blockades was end product of numerous technical and logistical developments, including the coppering of ships hulls (allowing vessels to remain at sea for protracted periods), the discovery of how to prevent scurvy (likewise permitting lengthy deployments), and procedures for supply replenishment while remaining on station.<br />The traditional view, championed by Alfred Hart Mahan, has been that the British blockade of the American coast during the War of 1812, drawing from the Royal Navys experience against France, proved to be highly effective in shutting down American naval and mercantile activities.  Not so, Dudley contends.  His detailed research into records on both sides of the Atlantic results in a persuasive case that the blockade of the American coast was badly flawed.  From the very beginning, the Admiralty allocated entirely inadequate resources for the task, too few ships and too few men.  And, as Dudley convincingly argues, even those inadequate resources were frequently poorly employed to further the aims of an effective blockade.  American commercial shipping continued for much of the war at considerable strength, privateers readily slipped out of American ports to range the oceans to prey upon enemy merchantmen, and even US Navy warships were frequently able to evade the blockade to add their own threat against British interests.  The wooden wall supposed to hem in American vessels, as Dudley states, did not collapse, but it was severely splintered.<br />Dudleys approach to his subject is decidedly scholarly, and he relies upon numerous tables of statistical data rather than colorful anecdotes to make his case, but in the end there seems little room to question his conclusions.  At times his prose is perhaps a bit overly geared towards an academic audience rather than the general reader: [American] naval officers knew the local sea-land interface intimately and avoided unfamiliar interfaces when at sea.  Sea-land interface?  Oh, the impervious horrors of a leeward sea-land interface!  And, unfortunately for such a book, the index and table of contents prove to be inadequate for easy reference.  Still, such quibbles do not substantially diminish the genuine value of Dudleys book, not only for understanding the Royal Navys operations during the War of 1812 but also for comprehending the theory and limitation of blockade strategy as practiced in the Age of Fighting Sail.es were frequently poorly employed to further the aims of an effective blockade.  American commercial shipping continued for much of the war at considerable strength, privateers readily slipped out of American ports to range the oceans to prey upon enemy merchantmen, and even US Navy warships were frequently able to evade the blockade to add their own threat against British interests.  The wooden wall supposed to hem in American vessels, as Dudley states, did not collapse, but it was severely splintered.  <br />Dudleys approach to his subject is decidedly scholarly, and he relies upon numerous tables of statistical data rather than colorful anecdotes to make his case, but in the end there seems little room to question his conclusions.  At times his prose is perhaps a bit overly geared towards an academic audience rather than the general reader: [American] naval officers knew the local sea-land interface intimately and avoided unfamiliar interfaces when at sea.  Sea-land interface?  Oh, the impervious horrors of a leeward sea-land interface!  And, unfortunately for such a book, the index and table of contents prove to be inadequate for easy reference.  Still, such quibbles do not substantially diminish the genuine value of Dudleys book, not only for understanding the Royal Navys operations during the War of 1812 but also for comprehending the theory and limitation of blockade strategy as practiced in the Age of Fighting Sail.	2003-03-22
US	53057371	R3CYHO04M2VXGT	1557502846	682922288	Uss Constellation: From Frigate to Sloop of War	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Not the final word, but a  volley in a continuing war	For over half a century, controversy has swirled around USS Constellation, the wooden warship today preserved in Baltimore harbor.  Although popular opinion had identified this vessel with the frigate of that name launched in 1797, Howard Chapelle in his \\"The Story of the American Sailing Navy\\" proclaimed that the original frigate had been broken up in 1853 and replaced by a new sloop of war bearing the same name.  But Chapelle's ideas were hotly challenged by others and debate raged.  In 1991 Dana Wegner and associates published \\"Fouled Anchors: The Constellation Question Answered\\" which, with the help of computer analysis and forensic testing of documents, offered a firm \\"No!\\" to the question of whether today's Constellation was in any meaningful way still the 1797 frigate (and, thus, the oldest surviving ship of the US Navy, slightly older than even the USS Constitution, Old Ironsides).  For many people, Wegner's study seemed the final word.  The private foundation preserving and displaying the old ship agreed that she was in reality a sloop of war of the 1850's (the last surviving ship of the Civil War era Navy).  When Donald Canney published his \\"Sailing Warships of the US Navy\\" in 2001 he unreservedly adopted Wegner's conclusions.  But not everyone agreed.  Geoffrey Footner has now published a lengthy, detailed study that seeks to reverse Wegner; Footner unequivocally states that, despite major repairs over the years and the rebuilding in the 1850's, the 1797 Constellation still lives on in the present vessel.  Whether or not the reader in the end will accept that conclusion, Footner's book is important reading.  As the Constellation's story is told, so is the history of the US Navy during the first half of the Nineteenth Century, together with an illuminating picture of the practice of repair of wooden warships.  It is important to recognize that Footner does not merely echo the traditional position of the 1797 Constellation school of thought; it previous years the defenders of that notion contended that the sloop of war of the 1850's was built by cutting the keel of the original frigate in two and inserting a new section to length the hull.  Footner fully accepts that the old frigate keel was discarded in 1853 and a new one laid for the sloop of war hull, but Footner contends that the identity of the Constellation was preserved, in part through the reuse of much of her framing timber in the new ship (Wegner concluded that little such material was reused).  And, it seems to me, Footner's position extends beyond the speaking of the merely physical nature of a ship's identity, contending instead that identity can validly continue even with great physical changes, as happened with the transformation of Constellation from frigate to sloop of war in the 1850's.  It is probably fair to say that two students of this controversy could believe in essentially the same chain of events and physical history of the vessel(s) in question and yet sincerely give two opposite answers to the question of whether today's Constellation is still the original ship.  Whether Footner's book will reverse the opinion of many people previously convinced by Wegner's work, I cannot predict, but at the very least it raises serious questions that the reader should consider.  I am sure that this book will not be the final word, but it is an important volley in a long-running war.rs the defenders of that notion contended that the sloop of war of the 1850's was built by cutting the keel of the original frigate in two and inserting a new section to length the hull.  Footner fully accepts that the old frigate keel was discarded in 1853 and a new one laid for the sloop of war hull, but Footner contends that the identity of the Constellation was preserved, in part through the reuse of much of her framing timber in the new ship (Wegner concluded that little such material was reused).  And, it seems to me, Footner's position extends beyond the speaking of the merely physical nature of a ship's identity, contending instead that identity can validly continue even with great physical changes, as happened with the transformation of Constellation from frigate to sloop of war in the 1850's.  It is probably fair to say that two students of this controversy could believe in essentially the same chain of events and physical history of the vessel(s) in question and yet sincerely give two opposite answers to the question of whether today's Constellation is still the original ship.  Whether Footner's book will reverse the opinion of many people previously convinced by Wegner's work, I cannot predict, but at the very least it raises serious questions that the reader should consider.  I am sure that this book will not be the final word, but it is an important volley in a long-running war.	2003-02-11
US	53057371	RIBYL0BF365R9	1574883852	38841875	Little Phil: A Reassessment of the Civil War Leadership of Gen. Philip H. Sheridan	Books	5	30	39	N	Y	A thought-provoking reassessment of a renowned general	At the close of the Civil War, by wide acclaim the three top Union generals were Ulysses S. Grant, William T. Sherman, and Philip H. Sheridan.  Although the reputations of Grant and Sherman have fallen and risen again a number of times, Sheridan's standing as a great general has gone almost unchallenged.  Until now.  Eric Wittenberg is a recognized authority on Union cavalry operations in the Eastern Theater and, based upon his earlier studies, he concluded that Sheridan's high reputation was undeserved, being a product more of Grant's blind faith in his subordinate (and Sheridan's own blatant self-promotion) than anything \\"Little Phil\\" actually did.  Wittenberg by profession is a trial attorney and, as he openly acknowledges in his preface, this book is essentially a legal brief, setting forth his thesis that Sheridan has been over-rated and presenting the evidence in support of that thesis.  He also states that he anticipates that some will not agree with him and that he looks forward to the debate to come.<br />Sheridan's career is described in four chapters, one dealing with the antebellum period and the first three years of the war, and then one each for his service as commander of the Cavalry Corps of the Army of the Potomac during the Overland Campaign and the early weeks at Petersburg, for his independent command in the Shenandoah Valley against Jubal Early's forces, and finally for his conduct of the pursuit of Lee's army to Appomattox.  (For the Overland and Shenandoah periods, Wittenberg awards poor marks to Sheridan, but gives him a high grade for the Appomattox Campaign.)  Together, these four chapters comprise a succinct but comprehensive history of Sheridan's Civil War operations.  In addition, special chapters are devoted to Sheridan's harsh treatment of subordinates (George Crook, William Averell, and Gouveneur K. Warren), his frequent disobedience of orders, and the conspicuous distance between truth and what Sheridan wrote in his official reports and memoirs.  There is also a final summary of Sheridan's flaws as well as his virtues.  And Wittenberg does not deny that Sheridan was superb at motivating his men for a maximum effort and in building their confidence, recognizing that \\"Little Phil\\" did indeed make important contributions to ultimate Union victory, even if not as substantial contributions as traditional history has contended.<br />Readers familiar with standard assessments of Federal cavalry operations in the Eastern Theater during the final year of the Civil War (Stephen Z. Starr's history of the Union cavalry comes to mind) may be startled by Wittenberg's quite negative appraisal of that activity.  Disputing Sheridan's claim of nearly unbroken success against the forces of Stuart and Hampton during the summer of 1864, Wittenberg contends that only Yellow Tavern can be counted as a Union victory.  And Wittenberg concludes that Sheridan was consistently outgeneraled in the Shenandoah and that only his overwhelming superiority in numbers and material overcame Confederate opposition.  Such a depiction of nearly total failure on the part of Sheridan's cavalry presents a paradox when it is recognized, as Wittenberg grants, that in this same period the morale and confidence of Union cavalry forces grew.  Wittenberg believes the answer to this seemingly illogical inconsistency lies in Sheridan's remarkable ability to motivate his troops by the sheer force of his personality.  I suspect that it is in this puzzle that Wittenberg may be most strongly challenged by Sheridan's modern admirers.  Could a general convince his men that they were winning when they were consistently failing?<br />Unlike some other books of \\"advocacy history\\" which I have read, Wittenberg's book seems to me to be honestly written and honestly presented, maintaining a genuine air of fairness to its subject despite sharply critical conclusions.  Too often, \\"revisionist history\\" is used as a derogatory label by those who do not understand the historical process.  Eric Wittenberg's new book is an example of \\"revisionist history\\" at its best.  The writing is clear and persuasive, and the argument presented inescapably leads the reader to re-examine the basis for old, comfortable assumptions.  \\"Little Phil\\" does not pretend to supply the final answer, but it does offer thought-provoking questions that can lead to a better understanding of the closing year of the American Civil War.stand the historical process.  Eric Wittenberg's new book is an example of \\"revisionist history\\" at its best.  The writing is clear and persuasive, and the argument presented inescapably leads the reader to re-examine the basis for old, comfortable assumptions.  \\"Little Phil\\" does not pretend to supply the final answer, but it does offer thought-provoking questions that can lead to a better understanding of the closing year of the American Civil War.	2003-01-21
US	53057371	R16MTL77H8K7PR	0142002763	199521294	Black Out	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Great atmosphere, but ...	There are just too many coincidences.  Half of the cast of characters in this World War Two murder mystery seem to have direct personal connections to Detective Sergeant Troy of Scotland Yard.  For me, this made the whole story too contrived.  And I would criticize the sex scenes as being a bit gratuitous and unbelievable, not being quite integrated with the rest of the narrative.<br />Although I had heard encouraging things about John Lawton's novels, this -- my first exposure to him -- let me rather disappointed.  I think in the future I will stick with Alan Furst instead.	2003-01-21
US	53057371	R30G5FWOIJG6HK	0811710076	352087111	Nelson's Ships: A History of the Vessels in Which He Served, 1771-1805	Books	5	33	33	N	N	A marvelous nautical history reference book	I gave this book 5 stars because Amazon doesn't have a 6-star rating.  \\"Nelson's Ships: A History of the Vessels In Which He Served, 1771-1805\\" is a strong contender for the top spot on my list of favorite nautical history reference books, and on my bookshelves stands a goodly number of competitors.  Peter Goodwin, the Keep and Curator of HMS Visitor - surely a dream job for any Age of Fighting Sail enthusiast - has written several other naval history reference books.  His \\"The Construction and Fitting of the English Man of War, 1650-1850\\" is a minutely detailed study of just how these marvels of contemporary technology were built.  His contributions to the \\"Anatomy of the Ship\\" series seemingly make note of every timber, trennal, and bolt used to construct the vessels described.  With \\"Nelson's Ships\\" I expected something of the same, a close study of Nelson's various vessels as physical artifacts, complex objects built of wood and iron and copper, rigged out with rope and sailcloth.  But Peter Goodwin's new book is far, far more than that.  In examining the vessels in which Nelson served, Goodwin has produced a remarkably comprehensive look at the Royal Navy itself during Nelson's era.<br />Twenty-five vessels ranging in size from the little armed brig Badger, Nelson's first command, to the huge first-rates HMS Victory and the captured Spanish ship-of-the-line San Josef are each awarded a lengthy chapter in Goodwin's book.  Deck and hull plans are usually presented, along with enough illustrations so that the vessel described becomes real in the reader's eye.  But, Goodwin's scope extends far beyond the physical fabric of these vessels.  A history of each is presented from launch to ultimate fate, not only confined to the period when Nelson was aboard as midshipman, junior officer, captain, or admiral.  Every commanding officer throughout a vessel's service is listed, usually together with the refit history of the ship, showing the frequent repairs and rebuilds which were an integral part of any wooden vessel's existence.  Goodwin has drawn from the ships' logbooks a wealth of detail about life aboard each ship, experiences during battles and during peacetime.  Punishment lists show, for example, that aboard Victory on August 4, 1804, John Brown, John Hind, Simon Moon, William Cobourne, and Edward Flynn received between 13 and 36 lashes for drunkenness, while John Wells got 48 for disobedience of orders and neglect of duty.  We learn that on September 14, 1778, HMS Janus expended one puncheon and one hogshead of beer (or 126 gallons).  We find that, among other things, HMS Vanguard received aboard on Thursday, August 4, 1808, 51 feet of 3-inch oak plank, 4000 ball cartridges for muskets, 339 fathoms of rope for signal halyards, and 46 thimbles for sewing.  On January 1, 1779, Nelson wrote in the log of HMS Badger: \\"Moderate and clear Weather, received my Commission and superseded Captain Michael John Everitt in Command of Badger, went on board and read Ditto to the Ships Company.  People employed occasionally.\\"  Through this kaleidoscopic recounting of ordinary (and sometimes extraordinary) experience, the ships and the officers and men aboard them are breathed into life.<br />Through this rich detail, Goodwin constructs a portrait of the Royal Navy, its ships, its duties, and its officers and men during the era when it rose to dominate the world's oceans.  By concentrating upon a representative sample of warships, a true picture of the greater whole is drawn.  Goodwin rejects the popular and out-dated view of life in the Royal Navy of the time as being one of horror, misery, and oppression.  Instead, he demonstrates that the seamen were well fed (within limits of what could be preserved aboard ship) with between 4000 and 5000 calories a day to support their heavy labors and that they were in general proud professionals.<br />I consider Peter Goodwin's \\"Nelson's Ships\\" to be an ideal complement to Brian Lavery's \\"Nelson's Navy\\".  While Lavery provides a thorough structural description of the Royal Navy circa 1800, its institutions, missions, and practices, Goodwin's book presents vivid, specific detail to flesh out that structure.  And I would add one more book to make an ideal trilogy: James McGuane's \\"Heart of Oak\\" with its marvelous photographs of the implements and objects of everyday life at sea.  Those three books together form an incomparable portrait of the Royal Navy in the Age of Fighting Sail.vy\\".  While Lavery provides a thorough structural description of the Royal Navy circa 1800, its institutions, missions, and practices, Goodwin's book presents vivid, specific detail to flesh out that structure.  And I would add one more book to make an ideal trilogy: James McGuane's \\"Heart of Oak\\" with its marvelous photographs of the implements and objects of everyday life at sea.  Those three books together form an incomparable portrait of the Royal Navy in the Age of Fighting Sail.	2003-01-12
US	53057371	R1HMSEPXRPP4O6	0743202708	785313244	Fat Ollie's Book: A Novel of the 87th Precinct	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Another winner from the 87th Precinct	Ed McBain likes the titles of his 87th Precinct series to bear more than one meaning, and \\"Fat Ollie's Book\\" is no exception.  Fat Ollie Weeks, detective of the neighboring 88th Precinct, stands at the center of this novel, having caught the call on the murder of an aspiring politician.  Fat Ollie, not an incompetent detective but quite willing to let others carry the load if circumstances warrant, shifts the burden of the investigation to Steve Carella and Bert Kling while he pursues a case far more important to himself - the theft of the sole existing copy of the manuscript of, well, Fat Ollie's book, a detective thriller written by him to cash in on the lucrative fiction market dominated by a bunch of women amateurs who wholly lack his real world expertise and insights.  The book took him months to write, too, at least three or four months, all thirty-six pages of it, and he wants it back, no matter the effort required or whose toes must be stomped on.<br />Fat Ollie, it should be said, is a racist, but that is an inadequate description.  He is also an ethnic, religious, and sexist bigot.  He despises, in short, everyone not exactly like himself.  Come to think of it, he also despises anybody who IS like himself.  Oblivious to the insults he showers upon others and sensitive to slights from others, he nonetheless is not absolutely without a touch of oafish charm, just enough to intrigue a Puerto Rican uniformed female cop caught up in the murder case and just enough to keep the reader interested in such an otherwise unsympathetic protagonist.<br />As usual in the 87th Precinct novels, the plot twists around itself, sweeping up a collection of odd characters marching unknowingly to inevitable interaction and intermeshed fates.  Along the way, we get to read - in short doses - Ollie's truly dreadful attempt at literary creation, so bad as to become bizarre fun.  And we follow the developing stories of McBain's familiar stable of detectives from the more than fifty novels that have preceded this one.  No 87th Precinct fan should miss this one, another top-notch entry in this series filled with dark humor.novels that have preceded this one.  No 87th Precinct fan should miss this one, another top-notch entry in this series filled with dark humor.	2003-01-12
US	53057371	R2GJC6A7AJIPUS	0060537639	264716684	1421: The Year China Discovered America	Books	4	238	300	N	N	A fascinating, thought-provoking premise	Gavin Menzies' \\"1421: The Year China Discovered America\\" presents a fascinating premise: in the year 1421 a huge armada set forth from China to explore the oceans of the world, visiting not only India and East Africa, already known to the Chinese from previous expeditions, but also West Africa, the American continents, Australia, and even Antarctica decades or centuries before European explorers reached those same shores.  But when the survivors of this great endeavor returned to China a profound change at the highest levels of the government had taken place, a change that ruptured contact with the outside world.  China withdrew within itself, destroyed the records of the expedition, and the great adventure was forgotten.  Nonetheless, critical information about their discoveries was conveyed to the West, sparking the European age of exploration.<br />It is tempting to dismiss Menzies as being simply yet another in a long line of authors who have proposed extremely ambitious revisions to traditional history based upon much speculation and little solid evidence.  We have all seen books that offer the true stories behind the Pyramids and Great Sphinx of Egypt, the Holy Grail, King Arthur, Atlantis, and a host of similar topics - books that promise much but soon fade from sight. Yet, Menzies does outline a large body of evidence in support of his theory.  Perhaps most crucial are old maps dating from the 15th and early 16th Centuries which appear to show in persuasive detail coastlines of the Americas, Australia, and Antarctica long before European ships reached those shores.  Menzies believes that these maps originated in the Chinese explorations, the information passed on to foreign contacts even while it was being obliterated at home.  (Other amateur revisionist historians have sought to explain such maps by resorting to ancient sea-kings in a pre-Ice Age world or even to extraterrestrial visitors; Menizies' theory seems almost sedate in comparison.)  In support of this idea, he quotes from contemporary accounts that European explorers finding \\"new\\" lands admitted that they were guided by existing maps.  Menzies' partiality towards maps and questions of navigation is undoubtedly grounded in his background as a former commander of a Royal Navy nuclear submarine.  The experience gave him, as he describes it, a \\"periscope's eye\\" view of lands seen from the sea, valuable in interpreting what might be shown on a centuries-old chart.<br />There is a broad array of other evidence mentioned by Menzies: inscribed stones at numerous locations around the world, the supposed presence of Asiatic chickens and African coffee in the Americas before Columbus, the reported growth of American maize in southeast Asia before Europeans provided a link across the Pacific, Chinese-style structures in various places, mysterious old shipwrecks which seem to be Chinese junks (including one in a sandbar along California's Sacramento River), possible Chinese colonies in New England and Portugese colonies in Puerto Rico well before Columbus ...  The list of presumed evidence appears endless.<br /><br />However - there is always a \\"however\\" in these things - can we be confident that Menzies has properly evaluated and presented this seemingly overwhelming body of information?  Footnotes are rather sparse, something which must make the careful reader cautious.  By Menzies' own acknowledgement, the validity of some pieces of his evidence has already been strongly challenged in the past: the stone tower of Newport in Narragansett Bay, the controversial Vinland Map, and the mysterious underwater \\"roads\\" of Bimini.  Menzies has stated that additional detailed supporting material will appear on his Internet website, but as yet I have seen little there of this promised data.<br />Given the bold nature of Menzies' proposal and the broad scope of information presented, it seems inevitable that at least some of Menzies' evidence will be shown to be in error.  But might enough of it eventually be proven correct to validate his ideas?  There are a number of paths of research suggested by Menzies for further pursuit, including archaeological excavation of the Sacramento River wreck and of mounds on the beaches of Bimini, DNA analysis of plants, animals, and peoples in many places ordinarily presumed isolated from one another, caron-14 dating of artifacts sitting on museum shelves, and so forth.  Perhaps, the thesis of the great expedition of 1421 will be found to be too narrowly phrased, while the broader matter of pre-Columbian contact with the Americas will be buttressed.  Quite possibly some of the more ambitious Chinese exploits described by Menzies, such as a voyage around the north of Greenland and the exploration of the north coast of Siberia, will be pruned away, leaving a more solid central core intact.  Or maybe in the end the whole thesis will be discarded.  But before that happens, I would hope that a serious look be given to Menzies' ideas and the underlying evidence.  The Chinese of the 15th Century, we now understand, certainly did have vessels capable of long ocean voyages, and we should not be so Eurocentric to preclude the notion that East Asian explorers could have made their own wide-ranging explorations.  And that detailed information on those old maps had to come from somewhere, after all.  Was it more than only imagination and luck?<br />\\"1421: The Year China Discovered America\\" makes for a fascinating reading experience with much in it worthy of further thought, but I would also recommend to the prospective reader that caution be exercised against taking everything at face value.  At the same time, the reader would be well-advised to keep an open mind to the possibility that the ancient Chinese at least briefly knew far more of the external world than we had ever realized and that this information helped kindle the flames of European exploration.t enough of it eventually be proven correct to validate his ideas?  There are a number of paths of research suggested by Menzies for further pursuit, including archaeological excavation of the Sacramento River wreck and of mounds on the beaches of Bimini, DNA analysis of plants, animals, and peoples in many places ordinarily presumed isolated from one another, caron-14 dating of artifacts sitting on museum shelves, and so forth.  Perhaps, the thesis of the great expedition of 1421 will be found to be too narrowly phrased, while the broader matter of pre-Columbian contact with the Americas will be buttressed.  Quite possibly some of the more ambitious Chinese exploits described by Menzies, such as a voyage around the north of Greenland and the exploration of the north coast of Siberia, will be pruned away, leaving a more solid central core intact.   Or maybe in the end the whole thesis will be discarded.  But before that happens, I would hope that a serious look be given to Menzies' ideas and the underlying evidence.  The Chinese of the 15th Century, we now understand, certainly did have vessels capable of long ocean voyages, and we should not be so Eurocentric to preclude the notion that East Asian explorers could have made their own wide-ranging explorations.  And that detailed information on those old maps had to come from somewhere, after all.  Was it more than only imagination and luck?<br />\\"1421: The Year China Discovered America\\" makes for a fascinating reading experience with much in it worthy of further thought, but I would also recommend to the prospective reader that caution be exercised against taking everything at face value.  At the same time, the reader would be well-advised to keep an open mind to the possibility that the ancient Chinese at least briefly knew far more of the external world than we had ever realized and that this information helped kindle the flames of European exploration.	2003-01-11
US	53057371	R1CHAE356AJPSV	1557509905	859645751	Sailing Warships of the Us Navy	Books	5	17	17	N	Y	A fine companion to Howard Chapelle's classic work	In his preface to \\"Sailing Warships of the US Navy\\" author Donald Canney pays tribute to Howard Chapelle's \\"The History of the American Sailing Navy\\", but also notes the limitations of that classic work in its failure to meet the standards of modern historical research by inadequately documenting source citations and, sometimes, in poorly evaluating primary sources.  Canney explains that he does not seek to replace, but to complement Chapelle's book with its meticulously executed ships' plans.  And Canney well succeeds in this goal.<br />All of the ships built for the American navy before the era of steam are covered, most of them in considerable detail, showing the original lines plans where available (it should be noted that due to the age and physical condition of these plans, some lack clear detail).  These are supplemented by paintings and, especially for the vessels built after the early 19th Century, photographs.  Special attention is given to design and construction considerations, although the full career and ultimate fate of each vessel are summarized.  Furthermore, in the course of discussing the individual ships, Canney develops a more general history of design trends and employment.<br />While Paul Silverstone's \\"The Sailing Navy, 1775-1854\\" is a useful quick reference to the ships of this era, Canney's book provides a much greater in-depth look.  \\"Sailing Warships of the US Navy\\" does not mean that Chapelle's history is obsolete, but you should make a space on the bookshelf next to it for Canney's volume.  This is a book which is truly a \\"must have\\" for anyone interested in the US Navy during the Age of Sail.	2003-01-04
US	53057371	R1ZQHTYN4QR2H	0802713947	324048509	Stone By Stone: The Magnificent History in New England's Stone Walls	Books	5	14	19	N	N	A remarkably thought-provoking book	As a native New Englander, I have long held stone walls to be an intrinsic element of life.  I remember playing as a child on the rows of grey rocks marking out fields on my grandfather's farm.  When my parents built their new house on part of that farm, the old stone wall in front was preserved to bound the new lawn.  One of the genuine pleasures I find where I now live is that when I walk out into our front yard, I am almost literally surrounded by stone walls from when that land was a farm, walls that I have now learned to name \\"tossed\\" and \\"single\\" as labels of style.  As I drive to work I see miles of stone walls bordering the back roads and, especially after recent snow, I glimpse long, thin, arthritic stony fingers stretching across the hillsides beneath barren trees.  At home when I sit at my computer desk, I look out the side window along one of those tossed walls, its glacier-rounded boulders grey-green with lichen.  A few weeks ago I ambled along its line, retrieving stones that had fallen among pine needles and leaves, putting them once again atop the wall for another month, year, decade.<br />I find these old walls vitally beautiful - not particularly the prettified, careful walls of ornamentation, but rather those rough farm walls whose beauty is rooted in unpretentious utility.  A New England stripped of these stone walls would be a place immeasurably poorer in ways not readily computed in dollars.<br />Robert M. Thorson, a professor of geology and geophysics at the University of Connecticut has detailed the origin and natural history and modern threats to these walls in \\"Stone By Stone: The Magnificent History In New England's Stone Walls.\\"  Road improvements and housing developments have been major agents in the destruction of these old walls, bulldozing away our stony history to clear room for something new, but more recently a more insidious development threat has been growing: the purchase and demolition of existing old walls to be re-erected (in a much more regular and \\"improved\\" style, I am sure) as decorative ornamentation for new-built mini-mansions springing up like mushrooms across the land, a counterfeit of old authenticity purchased by destroying the real thing.  Thorson's book is a rallying point for those concerned about such loss.<br />But \\"Stone By Stone\\" is not mere polemic in support of the latest good cause; it provides an education in not only the history of the stone walls themselves, but also of the geophysical processes that quite literally underlie (and undermine) the walls.  Thorson explains that few stones poked above the surface in newly cleared New England fields.  For perhaps a few decades after these new fields were turned to tillage or pasture, they remained clear.  And then, almost as if by magic, stones would emerge from the soil.  Although plows played some role in this, frost heaving and allied causes were mostly behind the phenomenon, along with plain old soil erosion.  Depending on soil type and rock size and shape and moisture levels and a host of other factors, the speed and sequence of stones appearing on the surface followed specific patterns, lasting a few or several decades until the supply of stones was largely exhausted.<br />It was when these \\"crops\\" of stone emerged from the ground cleared decades before that stone walls were usually built.  Before then, in general wooden fences were used to mark boundaries and to keep animals in or out.  These pre-existing fence lines were an inviting place to dump stones pulled year after year from the soil.  And when there were enough, it was a natural enough step to pile these stones into more or less neat lines that conserved open space and incidentally made a more permanent enclosure.  Although for special purposes walls were sometimes made with special care and artistic effort (such as walls around cemeteries or houses and near gateways), individual stones shaped and fitted together with precision, made perhaps even with quarried rock, walls around fields were generally made by \\"tossing\\" stones - rolling the biggest stones into place for the base, hoisting smaller stones by hand to pile on top.  These might be a single row of stones in width, or a double row with the space between filled with smaller, random material.  These are the typical stone walls found today in New England woodlands, the crop fields and pastures abandoned to revert back to forest.<br />We are not used to seeing soil as a virtually living being, in motion on a timescale not calibrated by clocks but by a calendar of decades.  Thorson's book describes this invisible set of forces that act continually upon the tiny pebbles and grains of dirt beneath our feet, forces operating not randomly but patterned by fundamental physical laws, forces pushing rocks to the surface and coaxing the blanket of surface soil to slide, slide down the hills.  Once stated, these notions are nearly self-evident.  Nearly.<br />It is not often I read a book that literally changes the way in which I look at the world about me, but \\"Stone By Stone\\" has been one of them.  It is a remarkably thought-provoking work.  Anyone interested in the New England landscape, past, present and future, should read this book.quarried rock, walls around fields were generally made by \\"tossing\\" stones - rolling the biggest stones into place for the base, hoisting smaller stones by hand to pile on top.  These might be a single row of stones in width, or a double row with the space between filled with smaller, random material.  These are the typical stone walls found today in New England woodlands, the crop fields and pastures abandoned to revert back to forest.<br />We are not used to seeing soil as a virtually living being, in motion on a timescale not calibrated by clocks but by a calendar of decades.  Thorson's book describes this invisible set of forces that act continually upon the tiny pebbles and grains of dirt beneath our feet, forces operating not randomly but patterned by fundamental physical laws, forces pushing rocks to the surface and coaxing the blanket of surface soil to slide, slide down the hills.  Once stated, these notions are nearly self-evident.  Nearly. <br />It is not often I read a book that literally changes the way in which I look at the world about me, but \\"Stone By Stone\\" has been one of them.  It is a remarkably thought-provoking work.  Anyone interested in the New England landscape, past, present and future, should read this book.	2002-12-05
US	53057371	R2LFU8DRFHV78Z	0807128090	17116630	The Fredericksburg Campaign: Winter War on the Rappahannock	Books	5	57	57	N	Y	The new definitive military history of Fredericksburg	Frank O'Reilly aims for - and achieves - a detailed military history, down to the regiment and battery level, laying out precisely the what, where, and when of combat operations.  Fully 60 percent of his 500-plus page text is devoted to the action of December 13, 1862.  This is not, however, a merely dry recounting of maneuver and sequence; O'Reilly takes care to maintain the vitality of his narrative by addressing the experiences and fates of individual officers and soldiers caught up in the fighting.  The maps are clear and informative, although I do wish there had been a few more provided when describing some of the intricacies of the attacks and counterattacks in the Prospect Hill fighting.  There is one curious omission: In books of this type, it has long been standard to list the Orders of Battles of the contending armies, something very useful as a quick reference when a reader wishes to check to what brigade the 121st Pennsylvania belonged or which subordinate units reported to Winfield Hancock.  Oddly for a detailed military history tables of this information are not included in \\"The Fredericksburg Campaign\\"; perhaps the publisher wished to trim a few pages from this quite large book (yes, that information can certainly be readily obtained elsewhere, but it would be far more handy to have it in this volume).  Although O'Reilly provides a passable description of events leading up to this short campaign and a discussion of its aftermath, he does not evaluate the performance of the various senior officers as extensively as I had expected, only quickly summarizing their merits or flaws - mostly flaws, in the case of the Union generals.  In O'Reilly's estimation, clearly George Meade was the best Northern commander on the field, while Franklin, Birney, and Reynolds earn his sharpest censure.  Confederate commanders are accorded perhaps even less analysis than their Union counterparts.<br />Only a few months ago, George C. Rable's \\"Fredericksburg! Fredericksburg!\\" was published.  Inevitably, a comparison between the two must be made.  Rable sought a blending of what he characterizes the \\"old\\" military history (dealing largely with leaders and dissecting strategy and tactics) and the \\"new\\" (focused on soldier life and its connections to larger social themes).  And, I think it is fair to say, he well achieved that blending in \\"Fredericksburg! Fredericksburg!\\"  In marked contrast to O'Reilly's study, less than 20 percent of Rable's text describes the December 13th fighting, only about 80 pages in a volume nearly as long as O'Reilly's.  Where Rable excels is in providing what might be called the \\"context\\" of the campaign, including discussions of the impact of McClellan's replacement by Burnside, the continuing controversy over the planned formal issuance of the Emancipation Proclamation, the repercussions of recently conducted state and congressional elections, and the realities of army life in the field.  And Rable delves deeply into the experiences of the wounded after the fighting ended and into how the battle was reported, both North and South.  For the general reader not deeply into the study of American Civil War military operations, \\"Fredericksburg! Fredericksburg!) is probably more accessible than O'Reilly's more narrowly focused study.<br />Taken by itself, O'Reilly's book is clearly the definitive traditional military history of the Fredericksburg battle (and in the modern trend, he expands upon that traditional military history to portray the common soldiers as well as the generals).  Paired with Rable's volume, the two together provide a uniquely comprehensive study of the campaign in all its multitude of aspects.  I recommend reading both.\\" was published.  Inevitably, a comparison between the two must be made.  Rable sought a blending of what he characterizes the \\"old\\" military history (dealing largely with leaders and dissecting strategy and tactics) and the \\"new\\" (focused on soldier life and its connections to larger social themes).  And, I think it is fair to say, he well achieved that blending in \\"Fredericksburg! Fredericksburg!\\"  In marked contrast to O'Reilly's study, less than 20 percent of Rable's text describes the December 13th fighting, only about 80 pages in a volume nearly as long as O'Reilly's.  Where Rable excels is in providing what might be called the \\"context\\" of the campaign, including discussions of the impact of McClellan's replacement by Burnside, the continuing controversy over the planned formal issuance of the Emancipation Proclamation, the repercussions of recently conducted state and congressional elections, and the realities of army life in the field.  And Rable delves deeply into the experiences of the wounded after the fighting ended and into how the battle was reported, both North and South.  For the general reader not deeply into the study of American Civil War military operations, \\"Fredericksburg! Fredericksburg!) is probably more accessible than O'Reilly's more narrowly focused study.<br />Taken by itself, O'Reilly's book is clearly the definitive traditional military history of the Fredericksburg battle (and in the modern trend, he expands upon that traditional military history to portray the common soldiers as well as the generals).  Paired with Rable's volume, the two together provide a uniquely comprehensive study of the campaign in all its multitude of aspects.  I recommend reading both.	2002-11-25
US	53057371	R2FECYSEPU5TWG	0807826731	231461531	Fredericksburg! Fredericksburg!	Books	5	32	34	N	N	A study of terrible battle in its rightful context	George C. Rable explains in his prologue that he sought a blending of what he characterizes the \\"old\\" military history (dealing largely with leaders and dissecting strategy and tactics) and the \\"new\\" (focused on soldier life and its connections to larger social themes).  And, I think it is fair to say, he well achieved that blending in \\"Fredericksburg! Fredericksburg!\\"  Combat operations are competently described, albeit not in deep detail.  Where Rable excels is in providing what might be called the \\"context\\" of the campaign, including discussions of the impact of McClellan's replacement by Burnside, the continuing controversy over the planned formal issuance of the Emancipation Proclamation, the repercussions of recently conducted state and congressional elections, and the realities of army life in the field.  And Rable delves deeply into the experiences of the wounded after the fighting ended and into how the battle was reported, both North and South.  For the most part, there is little assessment regarding the performances of the generals on the battlefield; Rable's interests quite evidently focus more upon the lot of the common soldier.  Despite the relative lack of emphasis on the tactical operations, the maps are entirely adequate to support the narrative.<br />Only a few months after Rable's book appeared, Frank Augustin O'Reilly published \\"The Fredericksburg Campaign\\".  Inevitably, a comparison between the two must be made.  O'Reilly has written a detailed military history, down to the regiment and battery level, laying out precisely the what, where, and when of combat operations.  Fully 60 percent of his 500-plus page text is devoted to the action of December 13, 1862.  This is not, however, a merely dry recounting of maneuver and sequence; O'Reilly takes care to maintain the vitality of his narrative by addressing the experiences and fates of individual officers and soldiers caught up in the fighting.  All in all, however, O'Reilly's book is focused much more narrowly than Rable's, paying less heed to the general background of politics and the state of Northern and Southern morale at this stage of the war.<br />Of the two volumes, Rable's \\"Fredericksburg! Fredericksburg!\\" is probably the more accessible by the general reader not deeply into the study of American Civil War military operations, while O'Reilly's book is clearly the definitive traditional military history of the Fredericksburg battle in the traditional sense.  Paired with Rable's work, the two together provide a uniquely comprehensive study of the campaign in all its multitude of aspects.  I recommend reading both.more narrowly than Rable's, paying less heed to the general background of politics and the state of Northern and Southern morale at this stage of the war.<br />Of the two volumes, Rable's \\"Fredericksburg! Fredericksburg!\\" is probably the more accessible by the general reader not deeply into the study of American Civil War military operations, while O'Reilly's book is clearly the definitive traditional military history of the Fredericksburg battle in the traditional sense.  Paired with Rable's work, the two together provide a uniquely comprehensive study of the campaign in all its multitude of aspects.  I recommend reading both.	2002-11-25
US	53057371	R3BJTJ7V2RF8NT	0300074115	814036431	Celebrating Homer's Landscapes: Troy and Ithaca Revisited	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A vibrant argument for the reality of Homer's Troy	J.V. Luce's \\"Celebrating Homer's Landscapes: Troy and Ithaca Revisited\\" is a vibrant presentation of his contention that Homer was personally familiar with the geographical realities of the primary settings of the Iliad and the Odyssey.  Luce supports his theory by a detailed examination of the landscape (and sea) of Troy and Ithaca in ancient times (both in the Thirteenth Century BCE when the Trojan War probably occurred and also in the Eighth Century BCE when Homer most likely composed his great poems) and at the present day.  In so doing, Luce takes cognizance of archaeological studies of recent years, notably the work done at Troy by Manfred Korfmann who has demonstrated to the satisfaction of most that extent of Bronze Age Troy was much greater than walled citadel located on the mound of Hisarlik identified over a century ago.  Strong arguments are presented that the words of Homer accurately present a picture of physical reality, right down to small geographical features such as the \\"swelling of the plain\\" in front of Troy and the \\"crag of the ravens\\" on Ithaca.  And in arguing for his case that Homer walked the ground he would later describe, Luce also presents a persuasive case that, in the case of the Trojan War at any rate, Homer was also describing events firmly rooted in history.  Luce's analysis of the location of the Greek camp is especially noteworthy in this regard.  The volume is well illustrated by numerous excellent photographs taken by the author.<br />For anyone intrigued by Homer's poems and the historical events behind them, Luce's book should be on their \\"must have\\" list.	2002-11-12
US	53057371	R32AMB6YTYK18A	0393047490	375012399	Heart of Oak: A Sailor's Life in Nelson's Navy	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A marvelous visual journey into Nelson's navy	James McGuane's \\"Heart of Oak\\" is a marvelous visual journey into, as the subtitle has it, \\"A Sailor's Life in Nelson's Navy\\".  The book is filled with photographs of artifacts from British nautical museums (plus a number taken aboard HMS Victory and at other naval-related sites), pictures not of static, dead objects on dusty museum shelves, but photographs artfully dynamic, almost as if the tools portrayed were set down a few minutes ago and a horny-handed seaman might return shortly to resume his work.  Many of the most fragile artifacts, such as a leather bucket and handmade trousers of light sailcloth, were recovered from the wreck of HMS Invincible lost in 1758, decades before the era of Horatio Nelson and Jack Aubrey, but nonetheless strongly representative of what would have still been found aboard a Royal Navy ship during the Napoleonic Wars.  The range of articles pictured is remarkable: a tar brush, pistols and boarding pikes, sailmakers' fids, a surgeon's bleeding bowl, cable laid rope, a glim (the thick glass lens set into a powder magazine enclosure to admit light but not flame), a seaman's knit woolen cap, a ship's lead, hourglasses (well, 28-minute glasses, to be accurate), a square wooden plate with raised rim (keeps the food in place when the ship rolls), sailors' knives, a cat-o'-nine-tails, a pressgang's cosh, and much, much more.  \\"Heart of Oak\\" is not a highly structured analysis of the physical accoutrements of nautical life two centuries ago, but it is a bit of a time machine, transporting the modern student of naval history (or a lover of the novels of Patrick O'Brian or C.S. Forester) back into that vanished world.	2002-11-05
US	53057371	R1B69KRKB57QC9	0806133031	767708817	Tell Them We Are Going Home: The Odyssey of the Northern Cheyennes	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A solid history of tragic events	\\"Tell Them We Are Going Home: The Odyssey of the Northern Cheyennes\\" is a solid account of the 1878 attempted exodus of about 300 Northern Cheyenne men, women and children from a reservation in the Indian Territory (Oklahoma) to their traditional homeland in the Northern Plains.  The Government ordered the US Army to stop the refugees.  Although author John Monnett's sympathies are openly with the Indians, he presents a balanced picture of events, recognizing that the soldiers sent in pursuit were basically men doing their duty to the best of their ability, not stereotypical villains as too often portrayed in popular media in the past few decades.  Monnett also does not ignore the killing of civilian ranchers and farmers nor the rape of white women carried out by some of the young Cheyenne warriors during their trek across Kansas.  In attempting to understand the motivation behind such acts, Monnett explores the traditional explanation that it was largely revenge for the killing of a group of Southern Cheyennes in the same area a few years before (this view was stressed by Mari Sandoz in her \\"Cheyenne Autumn\\" book) and casts considerable doubt on the notion.  At times, Monnett veers into academic jargon (we are told that \\"Little Wolf died in his beloved Tongue River country, albeit reimagined according to the Euro-American vision of geographical borders\\") and he perhaps tries too hard to give the events great symbolic significance (\\"The Indians who fell in the terrible pit on Antelope Creek symbolize displaced peoples everywhere whose sense of home and desire for independence transcends the love of life\\"), but his book nonetheless is a readable, quite detailed narrative which ultimately remains true to the author's intent of being fair to all involved.<br />Inevitably, Monnet's \\"Tell Them We Are Going Home\\" must be compared to Stan Hoig's recently published \\"Perilous Pursuit: The U.S. Cavalry and the Northern Cheyennes\\" about these same events.  If asked to recommend one over the other, my inclination would be to say, \\"Read both.\\"  Monnett and Hoig's views of the Cheyennes and their Army pursuers are much the same.  Monnett's narrative perhaps contains more small details of individual experiences for a vivid story, but Hoig's book probably provides a somewhat more comprehensive picture of military operations.  Neither book, unfortunately, has sufficient maps to fully follow events easily, but both contain numerous photographs of participants and locations of interest.  Comparison might also be made to Mari Sandoz's \\"Cheyenne Autumn.\\"  However lyrically written Sandoz's book is, it cannot stand along Monnett's work (nor that of Hoig) as a reliable account of events.  \\"Cheyenne Autumn\\" so closely identifies with the Indians that the white side of the story is not only inadequately presented but also distorted into almost cartoon villainy at times.  \\"Cheyenne Autumn\\" is a pleasure to read, but it should not be mistaken for real history.  Interestingly, in his text Monnett refers to Sandoz's book as a \\"novel\\".nd one over the other, my inclination would be to say, \\"Read both.\\"   Monnett and Hoig's views of the Cheyennes and their Army pursuers are much the same.  Monnett's narrative perhaps contains more small details of individual experiences for a vivid story, but Hoig's book probably provides a somewhat more comprehensive picture of military operations.  Neither book, unfortunately, has sufficient maps to fully follow events easily, but both contain numerous photographs of participants and locations of interest.  Comparison might also be made to Mari Sandoz's \\"Cheyenne Autumn.\\"  However lyrically written Sandoz's book is, it cannot stand along Monnett's work (nor that of Hoig) as a reliable account of events.  \\"Cheyenne Autumn\\" so closely identifies with the Indians that the white side of the story is not only inadequately presented but also distorted into almost cartoon villainy at times.  \\"Cheyenne Autumn\\" is a pleasure to read, but it should not be mistaken for real history.  Interestingly, in his text Monnett refers to Sandoz's book as a \\"novel\\".	2002-10-30
US	53057371	R18M1PNMAHIA7Y	0870816608	682428999	Perilous Pursuit: The U.S,  Cavalry and the Northern Cheyennes	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	A straightforward history of a tragic campaign	Stan Hoig's new book \\"Perilous Pursuit\\" is highly sympathetic to the Northern Cheyennes who, mistreated and betrayed by the US Government, were exiled from their Northern Plains homeland to the Indian Territory (modern Oklahoma).  After a year of misery, a few hundred of the Cheyennes fled from their new reservation and headed north towards their old home.  Immediately, the US Army was ordered to find them and force their return.  Despite Hoig's sympathy for the fleeing Indians, he does not make the easy mistake of depicting the pursuing cavalry as villains.  Instead, they are viewed as ordinary soldiers doing a difficult, dangerous job as best they can.  Hoig does not hesitate to point out where individual soldiers stepped over the lines of acceptable conduct to murder indiscriminately, but he also does not draw back from recounting the murders and rapes carried out by young Cheyenne warriors during their exodus across Kansas.  Plainly, virtue was not universally on one side.<br />My major criticism of \\"Perilous Pursuit\\" is the lack of adequate maps to clearly depict the movements of Cheyennes and Army units.  What maps exist are somewhat generalized, lacking in details.<br />On the whole, however, I would recommend Hoig's book for anyone wishing to read a balanced account of a tragic event.	2002-10-24
US	53057371	R19L149D8CB12T	0803291000	236746376	The Battle of the Little Bighorn	Books	1	19	28	N	N	A distorted and intellectually dishonest history	As much as I have enjoyed other Mari Sandoz books, I cannot recommend this one, a work published after her death.  I have seen it claimed that her name was used, but most of the writing was done some anonymous scrube.  I hope this is true, because the intellectual dishonesty in this slender volume only sullies Ms. Sandoz's reputation.  To give a few examples of the distortions filling this history of the Little Big Horn battle.  Sandoz (or the anonymous true author) repeatedly makes it appear that Custer's command was only a relatively small scouting force working with a much larger column led by General Terry; in fact, Custer's column was substantially larger than that accompanied by Terry.  It is claimed that Major Reno did not use trumpets to signal his men in the timber in the river valley because Custer had forbidden him to use them -- a truly stupid notion since such an order would to serve only to prevent the noise of the trumpets from alerting the Indians that soldiers were in the vicinity, and by this point of the battle, Reno had been fighting the Indians for the better part of an hour.  Custer is presented as trying to score a quick victory to capture the 1876 Democratic nomination for President with the groundwork already laid by his political allies; research has proven that there was no such political maneuvering underway.  Conversations between participants in the battle are invented and thoughts placed in the minds of people long dead.  The level of hate -- I can find no better word for it -- directed at Custer by the author of this book is extraordinary.  At every possible opportunity, he is depicted in the worst possible manner.  There were many decades of lies told about the American Indians, but lying about their white opponents is not justice, merely dishonesty.<br />Save your money on this one and buy something good by Sandoz instead, like \\"Cheyenne Autumn\\" or \\"Crazy Horse\\".  Or buy a good, balanced history of the battle of the Little Big Horn.	2002-10-22
US	53057371	R23WQ4NEVNWPNP	0807827452	1186759	Lee's Last Retreat: The Flight to Appomattox	Books	4	17	18	N	Y	A fast paced narrative of Robert E. Lee's last campaign	William Marvel is well known for books of Civil War history challenging conventional wisdom, such as his very sympathetic biography of Ambrose Burnside.  In \\"Lee's Last Retreat\\" Marvel's target is the hazy romanticism of the Lost Cause version of Appomattox wherein a band of peerless heroes gracefully surrender their arms only because they faced with a numberless horde of enemies led by the plodding, remorseless U.S. Grant.  Marvel successfully demonstrates, in my opinion, that in fact Lee's army at the start of the affair was much larger than popularly supposed -- more than 70,000 men available to him -- and that Lee's army was plainly outmaneuvered and outmarched over the next week, its morale collapsing disastrously as thousands of soldiers deserted its ranks (Marvel includes an interesting discussion of how the records show that the soldiers of the Army of Northern Virginia were more likely to desert the closer to their own homes they were).  Marvel also devotes substantial space to discussing why Lee fatally delayed for an entire day at Amelia Court House, permitting Grant to catch up to him; the usual claim that Lee was waiting for supplies is rejected in favor of an explanation that the failure to erect a needed pontoon bridge over the Appomattox River was the primary reason.  And there is an interesting discussion of the final surrender ceremonies.  Our traditional view has been largely shaped by the writings of two remarkable men -- Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain and John B. Gordon, both fine warriors and both men unable to resist romanticizing and expanding their own roles in post-war writings; Marvel's version is that mutual salutes exchanged by the two sides never happened and that Gordon tried desperately in violation of the agreed conditions to avoid making a public surrender.<br />I am certain that there are many who will disagree with some of Marvel's conclusions.  Sometimes the old, romantic myths are difficult to shed.  But if a reader is looking for a good, fast-paced narrative about the final campaign between Lee and Grant, then this book will fill the bill.a good, fast-paced narrative about the final campaign between Lee and Grant, then this book will fill the bill.	2002-10-19
US	53057371	R3GL399E2968LL	1579583164	851495193	Coinage and History of the Roman Empire:2 Vol set	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A double resource for Roman history and Roman coins	David L. Vagi's \\"Coinage and History of the Roman Empire\\" is perhaps reminiscent of the god Janus, facing in two directions at once.  Volume One is squarely focused on history, Volume Two on coins.<br />Taking the History section first, this lengthy (over 600 pages) and physically impressive volume contains biographical essays about every person portrayed on a Roman coin (and even a couple who were not), 284 biographies in all.  Although a few are limited to a single paragraph because virtually nothing is known of the person except for their appearance on a coin, most are multiple-page essays covering everything from origins to ultimate fate (and in the case of a good many Roman emperors, their fates were anything but happy).  The biographies are arranged primarily on a chronological basis, beginning with Sulla who became Dictator in 82 BC and concluding with Leo, Caesar under Zeno in the eastern Empire in AD 477.  The essays are grouped into chapters with such titles as \\"Collapse of the Republic (Imperatorial Period)\\" and \\"Civil War and the Severan-Emesan Dynasty\\", with each chapter prefaced by a separate essay providing a historical survey of events in that period.  In all, more than five centuries of Roman history are covered.  Many of the individual biographies include a \\"Numismatic Note\\" section specifically addressing information about or gleaned from the coin's bearing that subject's image.  Volume One might be considered to be a counterpart of historian Michael Grant's \\"The Roman Emperors: A Biographical Guide to Rulers of Imperial Rome\\", long a favorite of mine for its handiness as a source for quickly providing basic information (and more) about each emperor.  Vagi's Volume One not only serves as an equally convenient source with additional material, but also provides such information about a broader range of personalities.  By itself, I would rank Volume One as a 5-star production.<br />Volume Two is specifically geared towards numismatics, with over 180 pages devoted to discussions of various aspects of the coins: types, physical characteristics, how and where made, collecting, etc.  The bulk of the volume, however, is given over to a catalog of Roman coins, including statements of value based upon grade of condition.  It is here where Vagi's book may be considered short of some other Roman coin resources, depending on the needs of the individual reader.  Because many of the coins for any given person depicted are grouped as being a generic or common type, with only the more interesting or rare coins given an individual listing, Vagi's numerical classification scheme may not deemed adequate by many serious collectors because it fails to differentiate between similar types which are given separate identification numbers in other sources.  Vagi also limits himself to providing price range estimates for only three grades, typically Fine, Very Fine, and Extremely Fine.  Within these limitations, however, Vagi's catalog is easy to use and does quickly provide a general guide to a given coin's scarcity and worth.<br />This is surely not a work aimed at the general reader, and it is in some regard unfortunate that the first volume is not separately available for those concerned with Roman history, but not Roman coins.  But for those have a strong interest in both, Vagi's \\"Coinage and History of the Roman Empire\\" should be a welcome addition to their bookshelves.pages devoted to discussions of various aspects of the coins: types, physical characteristics, how and where made, collecting, etc.  The bulk of the volume, however, is given over to a catalog of Roman coins, including statements of value based upon grade of condition.  It is here where Vagi's book may be considered short of some other Roman coin resources, depending on the needs of the individual reader.  Because many of the coins for any given person depicted are grouped as being a generic or common type, with only the more interesting or rare coins given an individual listing, Vagi's numerical classification scheme may not deemed adequate by many serious collectors because it fails to differentiate between similar types which are given separate identification numbers in other sources.  Vagi also limits himself to providing price range estimates for only three grades, typically Fine, Very Fine, and Extremely Fine.  Within these limitations, however, Vagi's catalog is easy to use and does quickly provide a general guide to a given coin's scarcity and worth.<br />This is surely not a work aimed at the general reader, and it is in some regard unfortunate that the first volume is not separately available for those concerned with Roman history, but not Roman coins.  But for those have a strong interest in both, Vagi's \\"Coinage and History of the Roman Empire\\" should be a welcome addition to their bookshelves.	2002-10-19
US	53057371	R392J0I74DEQYD	0306811456	946242010	Civil War Artillery at Gettysburg: Organization, Equipment, Ammunition, and Tactics	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A good overview of Civil War Artillery	In some ways the book's title -- \\"Civil War Artillery at Gettysburg\\" -- is a little misleading or at least overly self-limiting.  Most of the book is devoted to discussing Civil War artillery as a subjectin itself; only in the next-to-last chapter does the focus shift to the battle of Gettysburg, and even then there is a good deal of information about artillery in general rather than Gettysburg specifics.  I do not say this as a criticism of Philip Cole's book, because it serves a very useful purpose in providing a good overview of Civil War artillery in general, with much of what it has to say as applicable for Antietam or Chickamauga as to Gettysburg.  If you are looking for accessible descriptions of the guns, ammunition, capabilities, and tactics, then this fits the bill.  I had recent occasion to try to track down what seemed to be a simple enough fact -- what was the muzzle velocity of a standard 3-inch rifled cannon? -- and I checked every place I could think of, including Ordnance Department manuals, Civil War artillerist's drill manuals, and books on Civil War weapons and equipment.  And I came up blank.  Nothing had the desired information, until I picked up Philip Cole's book and there it was (1215 feet per second, in case you are wonderding).<br />So, I would defintely recommend this book for anyone wanting to learn about Civil War artillery.  It's not just for those interested in Gettysburg.	2002-10-19
US	53057371	R3V0OTIOGNXOTV	0944945325	851495193	Coinage and History of the Roman Empire (2 Volume Set)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	A double resource for Roman history and Roman coins	David L. Vagi's \\"Coinage and History of the Roman Empire\\" is perhaps reminiscent of the god Janus, facing in two directions at once.  Volume One is squarely focused on history, Volume Two on coins.<br />Taking the History section first, this lengthy (over 600 pages) and physically impressive volume contains biographical essays about every person portrayed on a Roman coin (and even a couple who were not), 284 biographies in all.  Although a few are limited to a single paragraph because virtually nothing is known of the person except for their appearance on a coin, most are multiple-page essays covering everything from origins to ultimate fate (and in the case of a good many Roman emperors, their fates were anything but happy).  The biographies are arranged primarily on a chronological basis, beginning with Sulla who became Dictator in 82 BC and concluding with Leo, Caesar under Zeno in the eastern Empire in AD 477.  The essays are grouped into chapters with such titles as \\"Collapse of the Republic (Imperatorial Period)\\" and \\"Civil War and the Severan-Emesan Dynasty\\", with each chapter prefaced by a separate essay providing a historical survey of events in that period.  In all, more than five centuries of Roman history are covered.  Many of the individual biographies include a \\"Numismatic Note\\" section specifically addressing information about or gleaned from the coin's bearing that subject's image.  Volume One might be considered to be a counterpart of historian Michael Grant's \\"The Roman Emperors: A Biographical Guide to Rulers of Imperial Rome\\", long a favorite of mine for its handiness as a source for quickly providing basic information (and more) about each emperor.  Vagi's Volume One not only serves as an equally convenient source with additional material, but also provides such information about a broader range of personalities.  By itself, I would rank Volume One as a 5-star production.<br />Volume Two is specifically geared towards numismatics, with over 180 pages devoted to discussions of various aspects of the coins: types, physical characteristics, how and where made, collecting, etc.  The bulk of the volume, however, is given over to a catalog of Roman coins, including statements of value based upon grade of condition.  It is here where Vagi's book may be considered short of some other Roman coin resources, depending on the needs of the individual reader.  Because many of the coins for any given person depicted are grouped as being a generic or common type, with only the more interesting or rare coins given an individual listing, Vagi's numerical classification scheme may not deemed adequate by many serious collectors because it fails to differentiate between similar types which are given separate identification numbers in other sources.  Vagi also limits himself to providing price range estimates for only three grades, typically Fine, Very Fine, and Extremely Fine.  Within these limitations, however, Vagi's catalog is easy to use and does quickly provide a general guide to a given coin's scarcity and worth.<br />This is surely not a work aimed at the general reader, and it is in some regard unfortunate that the first volume is not separately available for those concerned with Roman history, but not Roman coins.  But for those have a strong interest in both, Vagi's \\"Coinage and History of the Roman Empire\\" should be a welcome addition to their bookshelves.pages devoted to discussions of various aspects of the coins: types, physical characteristics, how and where made, collecting, etc.  The bulk of the volume, however, is given over to a catalog of Roman coins, including statements of value based upon grade of condition.  It is here where Vagi's book may be considered short of some other Roman coin resources, depending on the needs of the individual reader.  Because many of the coins for any given person depicted are grouped as being a generic or common type, with only the more interesting or rare coins given an individual listing, Vagi's numerical classification scheme may not deemed adequate by many serious collectors because it fails to differentiate between similar types which are given separate identification numbers in other sources.  Vagi also limits himself to providing price range estimates for only three grades, typically Fine, Very Fine, and Extremely Fine.  Within these limitations, however, Vagi's catalog is easy to use and does quickly provide a general guide to a given coin's scarcity and worth.<br />This is surely not a work aimed at the general reader, and it is in some regard unfortunate that the first volume is not separately available for those concerned with Roman history, but not Roman coins.  But for those have a strong interest in both, Vagi's \\"Coinage and History of the Roman Empire\\" should be a welcome addition to their bookshelves.	2002-10-19
US	53057371	R3KER28PKJLDY4	0801852919	786837096	Coinage in the Roman Economy, 300 B.C. to A.D. 700 (Ancient Society and History)	Books	4	43	46	N	Y	First rate information about the role of coins in Rome	A previous Amazon.com reviewer of Kenneth Harl's \\"Coinage in the Roman Economy\\" expressed an interest in seeing a review of the book from the viewpoint of other than a numismatist.  I suppose that I can at least partly do this.  Although I do collect some ancient Roman coins, I am quite casual in my approach to it and, in truth, I am more interested in the history and people behind the coins than the coins as objects in themselves.  In looking on the Internet for information about the use and \\"real world\\" value of coins in the Roman Empire, I came across mention of Professor Harl's book.  Wanting to better understand how those discolored bits of silver and bronze had come to be and how they were used, I understood that there was no better source.<br />\\"Coinage in the Roman Economy\\" is unabashedly, unflinchingly academic in its approach to its subject.  Expect no whimsical anecdotes about mad emperors; don't imagine that there will be thrilling descriptions of great battles.  It is safe to say that Brad Pitt's agent is not negotiating for screen rights to the book.  Page after page, Harl details the intricacies of Roman monetary policy, how emperors gradually (and sometimes not so gradually) diluted the precious metal content of the coins, reduced their weight, and repeatedly altered exchange rates in efforts to achieve financial stability.  Yet, there is an oddly compelling flow and rhythm to that description of one thousand years of coin history as we watch the story of this instrument of Roman power and art play out against a distant background of civil wars, invasions, foreign wars, and calamities.  To tackle this book, a reader should already be familiar with the central events and personalities in the long history of Rome.  Otherwise, the information presented cannot be integrated with the larger story.  But for the student of Roman history, there is much here not readily available elsewhere, including insights into the standard of living in those distant centuries.<br />For collectors of ancient coins, of course, there is another entire realm of information contained in this book: explanations of the how those treasured bits of metal were manufactured and distributed, how much a denarius could buy under Augustus and how little under Claudius Gothicus, why new eras brought new coins such as the aurelianus and the nummus.<br />The ideal reader of \\"Coinage in the Roman Economy\\" is one who blends interests in both Rome and the coins themselves.  It is not light reading, by any means, but effort expended will be rewarded by a new appreciation of the real importance of these small pieces of metal to that complex and now-vanished world.uries.<br />For collectors of ancient coins, of course, there is another entire realm of information contained in this book: explanations of the how those treasured bits of metal were manufactured and distributed, how much a denarius could buy under Augustus and how little under Claudius Gothicus, why new eras brought new coins such as the aurelianus and the nummus.<br />The ideal reader of \\"Coinage in the Roman Economy\\" is one who blends interests in both Rome and the coins themselves.  It is not light reading, by any means, but effort expended will be rewarded by a new appreciation of the real importance of these small pieces of metal to that complex and now-vanished world.	2002-10-18
US	53057371	R34XX5CFNMYUPU	0803221622	867886094	And Keep Moving On: The Virginia Campaign, May-June 1864 (Great Campaigns of the Civil War)	Books	5	19	21	N	Y	A compelling, persuasive history of a deadly campaign	Mark Grimsley does not seek to break new ground in \\"And Keep Moving On: The Virginia Campaign, May - June 1864\\".  Up front he states: \\"This is primarily a work of synthesis.  As such, my foremost thanks are due to the authors of the specialized studies on which it is based.\\"  These specialized studies are, either through their daunting size or their limited availability, unfamiliar to most persons interested in the Civil War.  Mark Grimsley has performed a valuable service for such readers by drawing upon those narrow analyses to craft a comprehensive and lucid narrative about the Overland Campaign and its associated operations.  In less than 250 pages of narrative text, Grimsley covers the fundamentals of not only such grand battles as the Wilderness, Spotsylvania and Cold Harbor, but also Butler's fumbled thrust towards Richmond, cavalry raids in West Virginia, and fighting in the Shenandoah Valley.  Moreover, he relates the pace of military matters to the political background (1864 was a Presidential election year in the North) and to state of civilian morale.<br />In discussing combat, Grimsley includes sufficient first-hand detail so the reader does not lose sight of the ultimate reality that the contending armies were made up of living, breathing, dying individual soldiers.  Nonetheless, the book's primary focus is on the senior commanders.  Grimsley states in the preface that he \\"evaluated the principal leaders as sympathetically as possible, always bearing in mind that they were intelligent men who operated under extraordinary conditions and pressure ... I have encountered few historical actors - even such perennial goats as Ben Butler - for whom I could not muster at least some respect.\\"  It seems that Franz Sigel, justifiably in my opinion, fell outside the author's range of sympathy.  In writing of the battle of New Market, Grimsley quotes William C. Davis with favor about that hapless officer: \\"Franz Sigel was not just an incompetent; he was a fool.\\"<br />The results of these several weeks of combat in the early summer of 1864 are presented by Grimsley as a mixture of limited success and deeper failure for both sides.  Grant sought to destroy Lee's army, but he only succeeded in depriving Lee of the initiative while both armies battled each other into stumbling weariness.  Lee tired to drive his enemies back from their invasion, but only managed to resist destruction while being driven back to the static defense of Richmond.  In an absorbing extension of his analysis of the results of the campaign, Grimsley discusses the historical memory of these battles as filtered through the Lost Cause mythology of the post-war South, which portrays Lee as the flawless soldier of genius and Grant as the merciless butcher who wins by numbers alone.  Grimsley rightly exposes such thinking as shallow and inadequate.<br />In his acknowledgements section, Grimsley pays special tribute to Gordon Rhea who has, thus far, published five excellent volumes on the Overland Campaign.  The influence of Rhea's work is clearly evident on Mark Grimsley's book (Rhea's most recent book, \\"Cold Harbor\\", was unfortunately published too late to influence \\"And Keep Moving On\\"; if it had been available, I believe Grimsley would have rejected tired conventional wisdom about Union casualty rates during that battle and instead would have followed Rhea's illuminating evaluation of the subject), but even an enthusiastic reader of Rhea's histories can find much of value in \\"And Keep Moving On.\\"  The narrative is delivered in an engaging, persuasive manner, moving briskly towards its conclusion without a feeling of being rushed.  This volume has found a permanent spot on my crowded Civil War bookshelves, and I can only hope that Mark Grimsley some day may write a similar volume about the Petersburg campaign that followed./>The results of these several weeks of combat in the early summer of 1864 are presented by Grimsley as a mixture of limited success and deeper failure for both sides.  Grant sought to destroy Lee's army, but he only succeeded in depriving Lee of the initiative while both armies battled each other into stumbling weariness.  Lee tired to drive his enemies back from their invasion, but only managed to resist destruction while being driven back to the static defense of Richmond.  In an absorbing extension of his analysis of the results of the campaign, Grimsley discusses the historical memory of these battles as filtered through the Lost Cause mythology of the post-war South, which portrays Lee as the flawless soldier of genius and Grant as the merciless butcher who wins by numbers alone.  Grimsley rightly exposes such thinking as shallow and inadequate.<br />In his acknowledgements section, Grimsley pays special tribute to Gordon Rhea who has, thus far, published five excellent volumes on the Overland Campaign.  The influence of Rhea's work is clearly evident on Mark Grimsley's book (Rhea's most recent book, \\"Cold Harbor\\", was unfortunately published too late to influence \\"And Keep Moving On\\"; if it had been available, I believe Grimsley would have rejected tired conventional wisdom about Union casualty rates during that battle and instead would have followed Rhea's illuminating evaluation of the subject), but even an enthusiastic reader of Rhea's histories can find much of value in \\"And Keep Moving On.\\"  The narrative is delivered in an engaging, persuasive manner, moving briskly towards its conclusion without a feeling of being rushed.  This volume has found a permanent spot on my crowded Civil War bookshelves, and I can only hope that Mark Grimsley some day may write a similar volume about the Petersburg campaign that followed.	2002-10-15
US	53057371	R38X5N7QFVZ1KX	1929175310	565505545	Theodosia Burr Alston: Portrait of a Prodigy	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A biography worthy of its fascinating subject	At age 17 Theodosia Burr was reputed to be the best-educated woman in America.  Her father was Aaron Burr, a brilliant New York attorney soon to become Vice President of the United States, and at the age of 17 Theodosia married Joseph Alston, scion of one of the wealthiest planter families of South Carolina and a future governor of his state.  Over the next 12 years, Theodosia Burr Alston would be touted as a future Empress of Mexico, see her father charged with murder and treason, and finally disappear herself at sea in a mystery that would spark rumors and romantic novels for decades to come.<br />Although Theodosia's status as a woman in early Nineteenth Century - even if a highly intelligent woman from an influential family - and her precarious health after the birth of her only child prevented Theodosia from being a major actor on the political stage in her own right, her story nonetheless provides us with a lens to closely examine important events and social tensions in Jeffersonian America.  The relationship between Theodosia and her father, as described by Richard Cote, was extraordinarily, even unhealthily close.  Although her marriage was obviously warm, it never threatened to supplant the all-powerful bond between father and daughter.<br />Cote has crafted a vivid, compelling narrative detailing the lives of this remarkable woman and of her gifted, thoroughly amoral father, who in the space of barely two years went from presiding over the U.S. Senate to killing Alexander Hamilton in a duel, to throwing the western territories into turmoil with his ambitious schemes for the conquest of Mexico and - perhaps - the destruction of the American Union, and to being tried for treason.  While Aaron Burr's political career spun into a maelstrom of controversy, his daughter's life plunged into personal tragedy.  Cote well balances the two main currents of his narrative, the public and the private lives of his subjects, at the same time exploring the realities of existence among the Northern political establishment and the Southern planter elite.  He does this with frequent recourse to letters exchanged between Aaron Burr and his daughter and son-in-law, letters touching upon both mundane daily life and also great events.  Numerous small illustrations distributed throughout the book add visual dimension to the words for a more complete picture of Theodosia and her world.<br />The concluding chapters of the book examine the circumstances of Theodosia's death - she vanished at sea during the War of 1812 while voyaging north to New York to visit her father who had recently returned from a self-imposed exile in Europe - and explore the mystery of a portrait of a young woman matching Theodosia's description, a painting supposedly looted from a vessel wrecked on the Outer Banks of North Carolina.  Is it Theodosia?  As with several other riddles surrounding her and her father, Richard Cote can provide us with no final answers, but he skillfully presents the evidence so readers can judge for themselves in which direction truth might lie.<br />It has taken nearly two hundred years for a full-fledged biography of Theodosia Burr Alston to appear, but Cote's book is genuinely worthy of its fascinating subject.xistence among the Northern political establishment and the Southern planter elite.   He does this with frequent recourse to letters exchanged between Aaron Burr and his daughter and son-in-law, letters touching upon both mundane daily life and also great events.  Numerous small illustrations distributed throughout the book add visual dimension to the words for a more complete picture of Theodosia and her world.  <br />The concluding chapters of the book examine the circumstances of Theodosia's death - she vanished at sea during the War of 1812 while voyaging north to New York to visit her father who had recently returned from a self-imposed exile in Europe - and explore the mystery of a portrait of a young woman matching Theodosia's description, a painting supposedly looted from a vessel wrecked on the Outer Banks of North Carolina.  Is it Theodosia?  As with several other riddles surrounding her and her father, Richard Cote can provide us with no final answers, but he skillfully presents the evidence so readers can judge for themselves in which direction truth might lie.<br />It has taken nearly two hundred years for a full-fledged biography of Theodosia Burr Alston to appear, but Cote's book is genuinely worthy of its fascinating subject.	2002-10-09
US	53057371	R1M2134RU8KIIK	0811704777	99267759	The Custer Companion: A Comprehensive Guide to the Life of George Armstrong Custer and the Plains Indian Wars	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Great browsing material about Custer and the Little Big Horn	My shelves are packed with volumes about George Custer and the Battle of the Little Big Horn, but even so, I find this new book by Thom Hatch to be a useful -- and enjoyable -- addition to my library.  Although the \\"overview\\" portions of each chapter do serve as a decent narrative survey of man and battle, the real strength of \\"The Custer Companion\\" lies in the innumerable sidebars (discussing such varied topics as Custer's promotion to brigadier general, Custer's literary career, his alleged affair with Mo-nah-se-tah, the Benteen Base Ball Club (a baseball team made up of 7th Cavalry enlisted men), an examination of role Gatlings guns could have -- and could not have -- played at the battle) and the short biographies (usually a few to several hundred words) of virtual every figure of significance in the Custer and Little Big Horn stories.<br />Thom Hatch's new book will prove to be of great interest to the reader who knows a little about the subject and wants to learn more, but it also should be of interest to the experienced student as a handy resource for biographical information for many secondary characters and for the light it brings to bear upon various points of controversy.  Hatch's views of Custer are generally positive (he certainly does not accept the popular, intellectually lazy picture of the man as being a fool or villain) but also reasonable and well-considered, supported by the evidence.	2002-10-06
US	53057371	R1D0KZTPCAV9D4	0972091009	902866382	Johnny Ringo	Books	4	25	25	N	Y	Good information on Ringo's pre-Tombstone years	The primary value of Steve Gatto's \\"Johnny Ringo\\" lies in its recounting of Ringo's life before he became involved in the troubles centered on Tombstone, Arizona, in the early 1880's.  Using numerous primary sources, and drawing upon David Johnson's earlier work, Gatto lays out what is known about Ringo during his time in Texas when he first came in conflict with the law during the Mason County (or \\"Hoodoo\\") War.  Unfortunately, such information as is available is usually fragmentary and incomplete, so Gatto must resort to best guesses or speculation on some points.  Nonetheless, he clearly establishes that in Texas, at least, Ringo gained a reputation as a desperate character well before he moved to Arizona.  However, Steve Gatto does not accept the popular notion of Ringo as being a gunfighter without peer, instead generally depicting him in a straightforward reasonable manner.  Gatto's treatment of Ringo's death is level-headed, rejecting fantasies of murder conspiracies in favor of a conclusion that, in an alcoholic state, Ringo shot himself.  Unromantic, perhaps, but founded on good evidence.  Somewhat marring the overall effect of the book is the author's unrelenting hostility towards Wyatt Earp, with Gatto taking frequent opportunities to make disparaging remarks about Ringo's famous antagonist.  Although Gatto is known among students of Tombstone history for his often-voiced disdain of \\"old timer\\" accounts, the relative paucity of creditable material about Ringo does lead him to quote such accounts in numerous places, including dredging up \\"old timer\\" stories about how Ringo supposedly caused Earp to back down in a Tombstone confrontation.  Although the author subsequently refers to these accounts as \\"exagegerated tales that have little, if any corroboration,\\" the general effect of this cautioning comment seems as futile as a judge's warning to the jury to disregard the preceding witness's characterization of the defendent as a dog-beating, wife-stabbing, church donation-thieving reprobate.urch donation-thieving reprobate.	2002-09-13
US	53057371	R4CVK8FBS2FFK	0375505741	867162441	Blood of Victory: A Novel	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Another fine tale of life in the shadows of WW2 Europe	Alan Furst has a long-term lease on the espionage shadow world of Europe in the late 1930's and World War Two.  \\"Blood of Victory\\" is another strong entry in his sequence of novels set in that world (a \\"sequence\\" is more appropriate than \\"series\\" because, with one exception, all of Furst novels involve different leading characters, although the books do share some secondary characters and certain locales, including the notorious Table 14 at Paris's Brasserie Heininger).  Ilya Serebin is a Russian exile writer who finds himself recruited to work against the Germans in France and the Balkans.  The secondary characters are marvelously, if efficiently drawn, aiding or obstructing Serebin's uncertain quest.  Imagine a movie in cinematic black and white (and infinite shades of grey), perhaps with Peter Lorre and Sidney Greenstreet in supporting roles, and you have an idea of the atmosphere in a Furst novel.  Nothing is ever clear-cut, no-one is ever impossibly heroic.  But the places and the people seem very real.	2002-09-07
US	53057371	R37F79T2TXJY72	1568090706	772766311	Fragments of a Myth: Modern Poems on Ancient Themes	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Contemporary poems with ancient, mythic roots	I will say up front that I have known the author for several years through the medium of an Internet discussion group modestly devoted to the study of everything in the world including, upon occasion poetry.  And I have had the pleasure of meeting him in the flesh -- witty, intelligent, wise flesh.  Thus, I am prejudiced, I suppose.  Yet, I think I retain enough objectivity to say with accuracy that the poetry of Charles Munoz is very fine indeed.<br />Many of the poems in this volume have death, dying, mortality firmly in sight -- perhaps not making for light, whimsical reading, but of a long and honorable ancestry stretching at least back to Gilgamesh.  The author's evocation of ancient sources is usually not too overtly stated, although he notes his indebtedness to Catullus in places and there are unexpected echoes, I think, of Beowulf in a poem mourning books lost to a wet basement (and if you do not think this a source of tragedy, then you do not share the author's love of words, words, words).  The poem \\"Lockerbie\\" linking that terrorist destruction of airplane and life over a small Scottish town to Zeno's Paradox (a beguiling, seductive, impossible bit of Greek philosophy) is a haunting marvel, wonderful and terrible.  His musings upon watching a herring gull exactly capture experiencing the sea.  And \\"The Motel on the Battlefield\\" is a captivating obituary for lives long lost before they ever had the chance of being celebrated or wasted.<br />This is a book to be read slowly, revisiting words and lines and poems again to allow them to infiltrate your being and to hear the mythic echoes of three thousand years.	2002-09-07
US	53057371	R3RBK6QB2CWICX	087839124X	468954484	The Jesse James Northfield Raid : Confessions of the Ninth Man	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Solid account of a disastrous raid	John Koblas's account of the 1876 raid upon Northfield, Minnesota, by the notorious James-Younger Gang (in which the town citizens basically shot the famous outlaws to pieces) is detailed and convincing (although not quite equal to Koblas's later \\"Faithful Unto Death\\").  The mystery presented of a possible \\"ninth man\\" in the raid (standard accounts name only eight bandits) is never solved, nor can it probably ever be.  In the 1930's an elderly man living in Los Angeles claimed to be Bill Stiles, one of the outlaws supposedly killed at Northfield.  This Los Angeles Stiles claimed there had been a case of mistaken identity and that the \\"Stiles\\" killed was another man altogether.  This 20th Century Stiles' story, related by a pulp fiction author of the time, contains many unlikely elements, but John Koblas does present some supporting evidence which could point to Stiles being genuine.  In addition, the participation of possibly one or two other men in the raid is discussed.  Ultimately, John Koblas can supply no final answers, but the questions raised are interesting ones.	2002-09-07
US	53057371	RG8KFZYZ7SBOW	087839169X	457195877	Jesse James Ate Here	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Great browsing about a famous outlaw event	In 1876 Jesse James and Cole Younger came to Minnesota to rob a bank.  Cole Younger and his two brothers ended up in prison, with Jesse and his brother, Frank, fleeing for their lives.  Three other members of the gang were even less fortunate, being left in the dirt, very dead.  John Koblas's book explores all the reported sightings of members of the gang both before and after the disastrous attempted robbery of the bank in Northfield.  Along the way, an interesting snapshot of southeastern Minnesota in 1876 is presented, giving a good feel for the people and the world they lived in.  The research going into this book is very impressive, resulting in a book which is plain fun to browse through.	2002-09-07
US	53057371	R23RGMMO9SO3LR	0807128031	765433948	Cold Harbor: Grant and Lee, May 26–June 3, 1864	Books	5	84	89	N	Y	A fine continuation of a top-notch history	I suppose that the most fitting summation of the merits of Gordon Rhea's \\"Cold Harbor\\" that I can give would be to simply state that it fully meets the standards established by its predecessors.  Rhea has already published three outstanding volumes about the 1864 Overland Campaign waged between Grant and Lee.  The present volume wholly lives up to the promise of those earlier books.  Despite the complexity of the events described, Rhea's narrative is clear and compelling, and I have gained an understanding of the what's and why's of the Cold Harbor battle that far surpasses anything before.<br />Rhea challenges several popular misconceptions about the battle, especially regarding the famous, ill-fated grand attack of June 3rd.  Although in recent years understanding has grown amongst specialist military historians that the image of a hugely costly and essentially unprecedented sacrifice of attacking troops was much more a product of myth rather than fact (Rhea concludes that Pickett's Charge at Gettysburg produced substantially more casualties than the ill-conceived Cold Harbor June 3rd assault), Rhea's book marks the first full use  of that understanding in a major narrative history devoted to the battle.<br />Rhea's evaluation of the merits and weaknesses of the contending generals is balanced.  Although Grant wins praise for his flexibility in seeking solutions on a strategic level through maneuver instead of simple plow-ahead fighting, Rhea sharply criticizes Grant (and Meade and their chief subordinates) for a failure to establish even the rudiments of tactical control, resulting in innumerable lost opportunities and pointless casualties.  And while Lee is given very high marks for his skill in crafting superlative defenses, Rhea also points out that frequently Lee misread the situation, increasing his army's vulnerability at key moments.<br />The description of the combat, ranging from the initial cavalry probes to the full-scale assaults upon entrenched lines as the battle moved to its climax, is extremely well done, doing full justice to the men of both armies.  As Rhea amply demonstrates, courage and skill did not wear only one color uniform.<br />Taken as a single work, Rhea's history of the Overland Campaign should rank high on anyone's list of outstanding achievements in the military history of the American Civil War.  Balancing a broad scope with fine detail, this whole series of books proves Rhea understands that first-rate narrative history depends on the equal success of both those words: narrative and history.<br />I look forward to the next volume in this outstanding history, which will bring Grant's army across the James River to the defenses of Petersburg.es as the battle moved to its climax, is extremely well done, doing full justice to the men of both armies.  As Rhea amply demonstrates, courage and skill did not wear only one color uniform.<br />Taken as a single work, Rhea's history of the Overland Campaign should rank high on anyone's list of outstanding achievements in the military history of the American Civil War.  Balancing a broad scope with fine detail, this whole series of books proves Rhea understands that first-rate narrative history depends on the equal success of both those words: narrative and history.<br />I look forward to the next volume in this outstanding history, which will bring Grant's army across the James River to the defenses of Petersburg.	2002-08-24
US	53057371	R37DLFKP2IUVB6	1880216361	86555247	Outlaws: The Illustrated History of the James-Younger Gang	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A biography of of the West's most notorious outlaw gang	The lives of Jesse James and Cole Younger and their brothers are shrouded in myths created by Nineteenth Century journalists who celebrated their deeds and by themselves through the lies they told to cover their tracks and to excuse their crimes.  Brant's book attempts to separate reality from legend, covering the James and Younger brothers from birth to death.  Her book is not without sympathy for her subjects, but it is by no means an apologia for their manifold sins.  Although Brant rightfully sees the origin of their criminal activities in Civil War guerilla warfare which carried over into the atmosphere of bitter reprisals following the war, she also chronicles their slide into simple greed and thrill-seeking.  This volume is generous in its presentation of photographs of the outlaw gang, their associates, enemies, and victims, and of the places where they operated.	2002-08-17
US	53057371	R22YW6L7B2AGI8	0700611282	942408696	Hell in Hürtgen Forest: The Ordeal and Triumph of an American Infantry Regiment (Modern War Studies)	Books	5	37	40	N	N	A grim and forceful account of a meat-grinder of a battle	First, what Robert Rush's book is NOT:  It is not one of those popular history books which strings together first-hand accounts into a fast-reading &quot;you are there&quot; look at a historical event.  And it is not a narrative of the World War Two battle for the Hurtgen Forest as a whole, asking whether the objectives justified the costs.  Instead, Doctor Rush focuses in upon a single US Army infantry regiment -- the 22nd regulars -- and follows them through two-and-a-half weeks of combat hell as day after day they thrust themselves in a German meat-grinder.  Their persistence and eventual triumph -- albeit at the cost of virtually destroying the 22nd Infantry -- makes for grim reading.  Each day's activities are presented in remorseless succession.  Few names of individual soldiers carry through the narrative for the very simple fact that most of the soldiers who started the battle in mid-November, 1944, were with the regiment when it was relieved in early December.  All the others had been killed, wounded, or evacuated.  A continual flood of reinforcements kept the 22nd functioning effectively as a combat unit until very nearly the end of fighting, but the faces and the character of the regiment had inalterably changed in that brief period of intense battle.  Over ninety percent of the men and officers in the 22nd's nine rifle companies at the start became casualties.  It is here where Rush's real focus lies:  examining the process of replacing combat soldiers during battle so that the unit, if not the individuals, can be kept functioning.  Numerous charts and graphs delineate the grim mathematics of war, as day by day the numbers of &quot;original&quot; members of the 22nd decline and the quantity of replacements grow in proportion, even though the replacements too suffered horrendous losses.  Rush's own experience as a professional combat infantryman illuminates his analysis of what went on in this tiny patch of German forest nearly six decades ago.	2002-08-17
US	53057371	RK337O317R4AA	1557504059	759534695	Trincomalee: The Last of Nelson's Frigates	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A look at a survivor of the heroic Age of Fighting Sail	The subtitle of this new book - \\"The Last of Nelson's Frigates\\" - is hyperbole.  The Trincomalee, a Leda class 38-gun frigate, was not laid down till 1816, more than a decade after Nelson's death, and launched in 1817, a full twelve years after Napoleon's Waterloo.  But she was a sister ship of HMS Shannon, the victor over the USS Chesapeake in the War of 1812, even though unlike most Royal Navy men-of-war she was built in Bombay of teak instead of oak in an English shipyard.<br />After fitting out, HMS Trincomalee was sent on a shakedown cruise to test her sailing qualities, then placed in reserve for twenty-five years, her teak hull relied upon to long preserve her structural integrity.  In the 1840's and 1850's the vessel for the first time entered active service, assigned to duty in both the Atlantic and Pacific, from the tropics to the Arctic, engaged in various capacities such as anti-slavery patrols and the protection of overseas fisheries.  However, as a sail-driven warship, the Trincomalee was already obsolescent in a naval world increasingly reliant upon steam power.  She was soon again relegated to reserve status, doing harbor duty and as a training ship.  For most of the 20th Century she was known as the Foudroyant, functioning as a floating school for boys.  The text covers her origins and construction, her varied career, and her eventual restoration during the 1990's.  Context is provided by discussions of the role of frigates at the end of the Napoleonic Wars and of how the world of the Royal Navy changed from then to 1860, the end of her active service as a ship of war.<br />The slender volume (with some individual chapters by Robert Gardiner and Captain David Smith) is nicely illustrated, especially the section of color photographs showing the interior of the Trincomalee as returned to her original 1817 configuration.  They give a good idea of what a Royal Navy frigate of the Nelson era would have looked like.  In addition there are numerous paintings and photographs of the ship from throughout her long lifetime.<br />Lambert's new volume is a worthwhile additional to any library of books about the old sailing navies, even if the Trincomalee technically does post-date the actual days of Lord Nelson.  He decks would have seemed at home for Patrick O'Brian's Jack Aubrey or C.S. Forester's Horation Hornblower.ings and photographs of the ship from throughout her long lifetime.  <br />Lambert's new volume is a worthwhile additional to any library of books about the old sailing navies, even if the Trincomalee technically does post-date the actual days of Lord Nelson.  He decks would have seemed at home for Patrick O'Brian's Jack Aubrey or C.S. Forester's Horation Hornblower.	2002-08-08
US	53057371	RYKXMP2UB5GSY	0806133538	777102881	Last Hurrah of the James-Younger Gang	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	Good guys 1 -- Outlaws 0	Although a title like \\"The Last Hurrah of the James-Younger Gang\\" is good from a marketing standpoint because of the \\"celebrity\\" status of Jesse James and Cole Younger, it unfortunately does not recognize the real heroes of Robert Barr Smith's book: the ordinary citizens of a small Midwestern town who in 1876 repelled an invasion by a criminal gang.  Smith makes no secret of his sympathies (which I share) when he describes the outlaws as being \\"no more than orinary criminals, bullies who stole the fruits of other's labors because it beat working and did a good deal to inflate their twisted egos.\\"  In other words, don't buy this book if you expect to read praise of Jesse James!<br />Smith's research into the Northfield, Minnesota, raid is broad, but the nature of the evidence prevents him from constructing a simple narrative with all details laid out in a straightforward, no questions manner.  Quick, violent events such as the Northfield gun battle inevitably leave witnesses confused  and contradictions are inescapable.  Moreover, the outlaws' own accounts appear more concerned with providing excuses and whitewashing their activities than relating the truth.  And, finally, the stories from both sides were very often exagerrated and distorted by the newspapers and books which reported them.<br />Time and time again, Smith relates several different versions of some particular incident, pointing out improbabilities and sometimes identifying the most likely truth, but very often only a best guess at what really happended can be made.  Nonetheless, Smith's reconstruction of events held my attention and, in the end, I celebrate with him the victory of those Minnesota farmers and shopkeepers over the hoodlums who thought they would be easy picking.	2002-08-02
US	53057371	R3JPZAZKFZXOUS	0312420242	476995335	Bucking the Tiger: A Novel	Books	5	2	4	N	N	A bedazzling fever dream of a novel	Readers who demand a simple, chronologically linear narrative, please apply elsewhere. \\"Bucking the Tiger\\" is a fever dream of a novel, kaleidoscopic in its fragmented vision and very nearly hallucinatory in its voices. There is nothing straightforward about this book, an ambitious labyrinth largely made up of first person observations from Doc himself and Big Nose Kate and Wyatt Earp and Bat Masterson and Dodge City whores and TV cowboy show heroes. Even Thomas Berger's Jack Crabb makes a walk-on appearance under another name. The Doc Holliday within its pages is something of a Gilgamesh in ancestry, one third man and two thirds cinematic image. In the Gunfight (almost) at the OK Corral segment - hands down, the best recreation of that event I have ever read - picture Val Kilmer in the starring role. And from that starting point, Olds delves deep into the mind of Holliday.  When you pick up this book, prepare to be dazzled by pyrotechnics and perhaps occasionally daunted by its determinedly literary demeanor.  Just don't expect Louis Lamour.	2002-07-28
US	53057371	R1WCDD0X7TGU38	0312420242	476995335	Bucking the Tiger: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A bedazzling fever dream of a novel	Readers who demand a simple, chronologically linear narrative, please apply elsewhere. \\"Bucking the Tiger\\" is a fever dream of a novel, kaleidoscopic in its fragmented vision and very nearly hallucinatory in its voices. There is nothing straightforward about this book, an ambitious labyrinth largely made up of first person observations from Doc himself and Big Nose Kate and Wyatt Earp and Bat Masterson and Dodge City [women] and TV cowboy show heroes. Even Thomas Berger's Jack Crabb makes a walk-on appearance under another name. The Doc Holliday within its pages is something of a Gilgamesh in ancestry, one third man and two thirds cinematic image. In the Gunfight (almost) at the OK Corral segment - hands down, the best recreation of that event I have ever read - picture Val Kilmer in the starring role. And from that starting point, Olds delves deep into the mind of Holliday.  When you pick up this book, prepare to be dazzled by pyrotechnics and perhaps occasionally daunted by its determinedly literary demeanor.  Just don't expect Louis Lamour.	2002-07-28
US	53057371	R1H6AMZE5EX2P6	0899668747	176072181	The Cowboy and the Cossack	Books	5	98	101	N	Y	A wonderful novel!	Forget that &quot;The Cowboy and the Cossack&quot; is a &quot;Western&quot; novel -- it is a wonderful novel that happens to fall in that genre, that's all.  I almost typed &quot;a wonderful novel that happens to take place in the Old West&quot; but that wouldn't be accurate.  &quot;The Cowboy and the Cossack&quot; actually takes place in the Old East -- Siberia, to be exact -- where a group of Montana cowboys have come with a herd of Texas longhorns to be driven thousand of miles across this alien landscape.  The characters are beautifully and subtly drawn, and the action and the setting are done with equal skill.  The plot is exciting and the relationships between the characters are moving.  This one belongs on a bookshelf right next to &quot;Lonesome Dove&quot; and, coming from me, that is high praise.  I read a borrowed paperback and, so much did I like this novel, that I have now ordered my own copy for future re-reading.  If you don't care for &quot;Westerns&quot;, try it anyway (neither of the two women who recommended it to me like &quot;Westerns&quot; either, but they both loved this novel).  And if you do like the genre, then I suspect this one will move on to your list of all-time favorites.	2002-06-30
US	53057371	R379J3CBQJ338X	0963177257	169696641	The Death Of Warren Baxter Earp, A Closer Look	Books	2	5	7	N	Y	Speculative conspiracy theory, not history	In this gargantuan volume, Michael Hickey presents a conspiracy theory in the aftermath of the death of Warren Earp (Wyatt's brother) that would perhaps do credit to a JFK assasination buff, but hardly qualifies as good history.  To accept his conclusions, in my opinion, requires the reader to discard logic and common sense.  There is a wealth of primary source material presented, and for that I will give the book two stars, but I do not advocate that anyone read this book in the expectation of learning the truth.	2002-05-19
US	53057371	R2P3SKGF94G150	0803258380	795986384	The Earp Brothers of Tombstone: The Story of Mrs. Virgil Earp	Books	1	54	57	N	N	A real Tombstone travesty	In the last few years with the discovery of Frank Waters' original manuscript for this book, scholars of Western American History now understand how much Waters distorted the memoirs of Allie Earp (wife of Virgil Earp and sister-in-law of Wyatt) in this later, published version.  It is shocking to realize that literally every negative thing Allie Earp was alleged to have said about Wyatt Earp in &quot;The Earp Brothers of Tombstone&quot; was absent in Waters' earlier manuscript.  The conclusion that Waters altered Allie Earp's words to fit his strongly anti-Earp prejudice is inescapable.  &quot;The Earp Brothers of Tombstone&quot; was highly influential in the 1960's and 1970's in creating the image of Wyatt Earp as basically an adulterous criminal far removed from the 1950's television portrayal as a peerless hero.  In fact, Allie Earp's memoirs presented in the original manuscript show Wyatt Earp in a rather favorable light, as a stern and taciturn man, but honorable.  Frankly, I think that the University of Nebraska should be ashamed to continue to publish this book in the light of the discovery of Waters' original manuscript -- it is not history, only a fictionalized smear.	2002-05-19
US	53057371	RVXKERUXBGUJU	006018891X	709991744	The Man Who Broke Napoleon's Codes	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A fascinating look at an uncommon soldier	George Scovell, a man of fairly humble origins, made a tremendous contribution to the success of the Duke of Wellington in defeating Napoleon's armies in Spain, but those humble origins worked against his receiving the fame and professional advancement he really deserved.  Mark Urban's book, half biography and half military campaign history, does much to restore Scovell to his rightful place.  Readers will come away with both an appreciation of Scovell's considerable talents as a military administrator and a code breaker and also a decent understanding of the flow of events during Wellington's great campaigns during the Peninsular War.  While the battles are not neglected by Urban, much of the book of necessity is aimed at describing the events behind the scenes which are so often neglected by standard military histories.	2002-05-19
US	53057371	R1NFEG8NRMEXK1	0060194448	657088689	The Wailing Wind	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Nice to be back in Navajo country	Officer Bernadette Manuelito had become a full-fledged member of Tony Hillerman's cast of characters, allowing us to see events through her eyes as well as those of Jim Chee and Joe Leaphorn and expanding the range of emotions and insights to be explored.  The story of \\"The Wailing Woman\\" is not terribly complex -- a white man has been found shot to death on the Navajo reservation and circumstances tie the crime to an older unsolved mystery: why did the beautiful young wife of a wealthy local oil man disappear at the same time her husband killed a conman who was trying to cheat him over information about a long-lost fabled gold mine?  It was a mystery which troubled Leaphorn even in retirement, and he cannot resist the opportunity to again try to find the answer.<br />This novel does not delve so deep into Indian religion and culture as some of Hillerman's books, but as usual his characters are complex and subtle.  And, as has been the case with most of the novels in this series for several years, the personal stories of his characters evolve a little further.	2002-05-18
US	53057371	R2VEVB5TJMH1U4	0312271212	747433278	A Mist of Prophecies:  A Novel of Ancient Rome	Books	5	32	34	N	Y	Another fine addition to a great historical mystery series	Steven Saylor's &quot;Roma Sub Rosa&quot; stories, the adventures of Gordianus the Finder, continues to be one of the very best historical mystery series ever written.  Not only is the history accurate (the First Century BCE as the Roman Republic shatters), the characters are three-dimensional and convincing, and the reader cares what happens to them.  Often a mystery series will grow tired after several books, the plots becoming predictable and the relationships among the characters increasingly trivial.  Not so with the &quot;Roma Sub Rosa&quot; tales.  We continue to care about Gordianus the Finder and his family, even as new tensions tear them apart.<br />&quot;A Mist of Prophecies&quot; takes place against a backdrop of the war between Julius Caesar and Pompey the Great.  Although these two rivals are off stage in this novel, their agents are active in Rome, creating a dangerous urban jungle.  And perhaps even more perilous for Gordianus the Finder, the chaos unleashed by the war has prompted others to also grab for power, whatever Caesar and Pompey might do.  Into this turmoil steps the beautiful, mad seer Cassandra who proves irresistable to Gordianus, beset by financial ruin, family discord, and the mysterious illness of his wife.<br />As much as I like this novel, I must discourage readers unfamiliar with Saylor's books from beginning with &quot;A Mist of Prophecies.&quot;  This is a series where the characters grow and their relationships evolve.  So, start with &quot;Roman Blood&quot; and go through the rest in chronological order.  And when you finish &quot;A Mist of Prophecies,&quot; then you can wait with me for the next!	2002-05-11
US	53057371	R2C1L8UNUJLHP1	1882810481	14384904	Breaking the Backbone of the Rebellion: The Final Battles of the Petersburg Campaign	Books	5	12	13	N	N	An outstanding history of a forgotten battle	For a variety of reasons, the successful Union assault upon the Petersburg defenses on April 2, 1865, has been largely ignored in Civil War histories, barely getting a passing mention as an incident just before Lee's retreat to Appomattox. But the battle of April 2, as Greene ably demonstrates, was a crucial military action. It was, quite simply, the battle that broke the backbone of Lee's defenses and necessitated the immediate evacuation of Petersburg and Richmond. The story is told largely from a Union point of view, not because of any innate bias on Greene's part, but due to the very pragmatic reason that there are few Confederate primary sources dealing with this stage of the fighting. He crafts an rapidly moving, but comprehensive story of the military struggle, illuminating it with vivid details of incidents and personalities. I count it as a first-rate addition to any library of Civil War titles.<br /><br />The above is a review of the original edition of this book, published in 2000.  A revised edition has now been published (2008) and I would repeat exactly the same things.  The new edition has some minor corrections and expansions, but for the most part these are aimed at updating the text to reflect the current status of development and battlefield preservation in the Petersburg area and to ensure that references to Civil War era roads correlate to 2007 route designations (\\"The Final Battles of the Petersburg Campaign\\" is an invaluable guide for anyone wishing to trace out the activities of late March and early April on the actual ground).  The most evident change from the original edition is the improvement of the maps for clarity and detail.<br /><br />The perfect complement to this volume is a visit to Pamplin Historical Park southwest of Petersburg which preserves the earthworks successfully overcome by the Union attackers as described in \\"The Final Battles\\".  (And even better is to have the good fortune of visiting around the anniversary of the battle and being able to participate in a pre-dawn battlefield walk to actually see the ground in question at the appropriate season of the year and time of day; such was my own good fortune.)<br /><br />For several years, Wilson Greene's book has been among my very favorite Civil War history volume, and this new edition even makes it better.  This book is an absolute necessity for anyone wishing to understand the closing weeks of the Civil War in the East, the end of Lee's army, and the final triumph of the Union Army of the Potomac.e to participate in a pre-dawn battlefield walk to actually see the ground in question at the appropriate season of the year and time of day; such was my own good fortune.)    For several years, Wilson Greene's book has been among my very favorite Civil War history volume, and this new edition even makes it better.  This book is an absolute necessity for anyone wishing to understand the closing weeks of the Civil War in the East, the end of Lee's army, and the final triumph of the Union Army of the Potomac.	2002-05-09
US	53057371	R1H0YT4PIBBXVT	0304357006	731448863	Isandlwana (Fields Of Battle)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	A solid account with new thinking	Isandlwana was one of the most famous battles in the British colonial wars, sort of a Zulu War equivalent of the American Battle of the Little Big Horn, with the supposedly inferior \\"natives\\" overwhelming the \\"civilized\\" military force.  Arian Greaves' book is a solid, albeit not overly detailed, account of the battle and its background, well illustrated and containing several very informative maps.  I especially appreciated Greaves' explorations of recent discoveries about the actual orders issued to the doomed column of British soldiers, lifting much of the cloud which lay over the reputations of the senior field commanders who had been killed.  For persons not yet familiar with the Zulu War of 1879, this book will make a good introduction, yet still offers something new to those who have read the standard works in the past.	2002-05-09
US	53057371	R3RUZZRWY6MFF3	0743214587	959873800	Kydd: A Novel.	Books	3	19	24	N	N	Half excellent, half not	I find Julian Stockwin's novel \\"Kydd,\\" the first in a projected series about the adventures of a Royal Navy seaman during the Napoleonic wars, to be a glass both half full and half empty.  There are some aspects of the novel which were truly excellent.  Stockwin has a detailed command of the physical aspects of the Royal Navy -- the ships, the implements and small duties of daily life, the sea itself, and he brings those physical aspects into vivid existence.  When he wrote how a wave dashing against the hull of a ship sent water spurting through the narrow crack around the lid of a gunport, I realized that I had never thought of this happening but instantly recognized that his description was unmistakably true.  Such descriptions of ships and the sea dominate the first half of \\"Kydd\\" and, at the halfway point, I was eager to read further.  But ...  The second half of the novel is much more given to characters and what is supposed to be an action-filled plot, and -- at least at this stage of his writing career -- Stockwin is no master of either.  I found the minor characters unmemorable and one of the main characters, Nicholas Renzi, to be literally unbelievable.  When he says, \\"Perhaps one day we will sail to the Orient -- I have a morbid desire to imbibe their metaphysics at the source,\\" I personally have a morbid desire to throw away his thesaurus.<br />Depite my reservations about the characters (and their often strained dialogue), I would still recommend \\"Kydd\\" to nautical novel enthusiasts.  Read the first half slowly and revel in the intense physical world recreated, then scan the predictable plot turns of the second half more quickly.  I will undoubtedly read the next novel in the series, \\"Artemus,\\" and will hope that Julian Stockwin's skill as an author grows to meet the promise shown by the first half of \\"Kydd.\\"	2002-05-09
US	53057371	R2LWZYG8WEC6KE	047139209X	986944551	Aaron Burr :  Conspiracy to Treason	Books	4	13	13	N	N	An exploration of a political enigma without resolution	Buckner Melton Jr. has tackled a complex, shadowy topic -- the mysterious plot of former Vice-President Aaron Burr in the early years of the Nineteenth Century which led to his trial on the charge of treason.  What exactly did Burr conspire to do?  Break off the Western lands in the Ohio and Mississippi valleys as an independent nation?  Conquer Mexico or possibly Spanish Florida?  Overthrow Thomas Jefferson's government in Washington?  All of the above?  None of the above?  Ultimately, Melton is unable to answer the question because perhaps Aaron Burr was himself uncertain what was possible to achieve.  But surely the disgraced former Vice-President, who had recently killed Alexander Hamilton in a duel, was grasping desperately at chances to revive his fortunes.<br />The cast of characters in this history of plot and trial is hard to beat.  Besides the enigmatic Burr, we have President Jefferson, Chief Justice John Marshall, Andrew Jackson, and General James Wilkinson (simultaneously the senior American military commander in the Mississippi valley and a secret agent of the Spanish enemy).  Melton constructs a solid narrative of the events, and it is not his fault that in the end he cannot answer all our questions.  As the author himself states, &quot;history is the recorded part of the remembered part of the observed part of what happened.&quot;  And, unfortunately, with Aaron Burr too much was never observed or recorded.	2002-04-30
US	53057371	R7N69MMT26TCM	0892967188	747660556	Put a Lid on It	Books	5	17	19	N	N	A delightful return to old Westlake territory	After the superb (and darkly satirical) social commentary of \\"The Ax\\" and the intense psychological morality of \\"The Hook\\" Donald Westlake has returned to old, familiar and very funny territory for him -- the humorous crime caper novel.  Once again we have a likable, non-violent career criminal who finds himself getting in over his head.  Francis (not \\"Frank\\") Meehan finds himself for the first time in his life in a Federal lockup awaiting trial for an accidental Federal crime (well, how could he have known there was registered mail, for goodness sakes, in that trailer truck supposed to full of computer gear?).  And then fate intervenes.  Or, more exactly, the political committee for the reelection of the President of the United States intervenes.  Wishing to carry out a Watergate-type endeavor without all that unfortunate publicity, the presidential advisors have decided to employ a professional burglar instead of using amateur enthusiasts and spies.  Enter (or, rather, exit from jail) Francis Meehan.  And he and the reader are off and running.  No, \\"Put a Lid on It\\" doesn't possess the emotional whallop of \\"The Ax\\" or \\"The Hook\\" but sometimes it is enough just to have a darned good time.  It's fast, it's funny, and it even involves a joint Israeli-Egyptian Intelligence team.  How can you go wrong?	2002-04-24
US	53057371	R1P0TD6HNAVASJ	0944383564	504448399	John H. Behan: Sacrificed Sheriff	Books	3	16	17	N	N	Good facts, poor history	I truly would like to recommend \\"Sacrificed Sheriff\\" more strongly.  It provides a wealth of factual information about John Behan, the Sheriff of Cochise County, Arizona, when the city of Tombstone reached its pinnacle of fame as the site of the so-called Gunfight at the OK Corral and the surrounding events.  Behan's reputation, as Bob Alexander vehemently protests, has long been assailed through innuendo and an unfairly selective use of evidence, painting him as a weak and corrupt opponent of Wyatt Earp and his brothers.  In Alexander, Behan has at last found a very sympathetic biographer, perhaps a biographer too sympathetic to objectively view the historical questions involved.  While Alexander repeatedly (and rightly) protests the negative assumptions and interpretations of evidence used in the past against Sheriff Behan by various writers, Alexander himself falls into the same trap, seemingly never missing an opportunity to paint Wyatt Earp in the darkest colors, repeating sketchy rumors and always promoting the most negative answer to any question.<br /> I confess a particular personal aversion to some stylistic choices made by Alexander, most notably the lavish use of italicized words and exclamation points throughout his text.  Reading this, I could not help but feel that the author is displaying an unseemly indignant petulance not at all appropriate for anyone attempting an objective history.  In the end, I think that Mr. Alexander has eroded the effectiveness of his own book by such devices and through a blatant display of partisanship in his unceasing attacks upon Wyatt Earp at every opportunity (extending to creating such opportunities even where the narrative text about Behan, supposedly the focus of the book, does not logically involve Earp at all).  At times, Alexander seems to confuse the opinions of earlier authors of an \\"anti-Earp\\" bent with actual evidence, citing with relish almost anything unflattering ever written about the man whom popular history has chosen, instead of Sheriff Behan, to be at the center of Tombstone's story.  I believe that \\"Sacrificed Sheriff\\" would have benefited greatly from a strong editor who would have toned down Mr. Alexander's all too evident antipathy towards Wyatt Earp and kept the book's focus more clearly on its supposed central subject.<br />Do I encourage persons interested in the controversies surrounding Tombstone in its glory days to read Alexander's book?  Yes, I do.  But I caution them to read it for the facts given about John Behan's life rather than for the interpretations the author makes about Behan's opponents.story has chosen, instead of Sheriff Behan, to be at the center of Tombstone's story.  I believe that \\"Sacrificed Sheriff\\" would have benefited greatly from a strong editor who would have toned down Mr. Alexander's all too evident antipathy towards Wyatt Earp and kept the book's focus more clearly on its supposed central subject.<br />Do I encourage persons interested in the controversies surrounding Tombstone in its glory days to read Alexander's book?  Yes, I do.  But I caution them to read it for the facts given about John Behan's life rather than for the interpretations the author makes about Behan's opponents.	2002-04-07
US	53057371	RY7O09A1HY4Y8	0399148450	627668908	Widow's Walk: A Spenser Novel (Spenser Mysteries)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	A standard Spenser novel -- and that ain't bad	There are no big surprises in \\"Widow's Walk\\" and no great social questions to be explored.  It is very much a standard Spenser novel, where the stalwart and flippant Boston PI takes on the bad guys.  The case is simple: investigate the murder of a wealthy banker to help his much younger blonde wife beat the homicide charge.  She can't be as dumb as she seems.  Or maybe she really is.  Spenser and Hawk and Susan are their usual selves.  Not an earthshaking novel, but a good fast read that kept me turning the pages as more and more bodies piled up.  Hey, \\"Widow's Walk\\" isn't going to win the Pulitzer Prize, but I'll be waiting happily for next year's Spenser novel...	2002-03-24
US	53057371	R3EW1FDNLU7O3Q	0786406488	972157817	Historic Figures of the Arthurian Era: Authenticating the Enemies and Allies of Britain's Post-Roman King	Books	5	2	3	N	N	An excellent extension of Frank Reno's exploration of Arthur	\\"Historic Figures of the Arthurian Era\\" is Frank Reno's follow-up to his \\"The Historic King Arthur\\"...  The work presented here extends Reno's explorations into the real world of \\"King Arthur\\" as found in the ancient written texts.  It's a detailed, challenging book which should be of great interest to anyone who strongly wishes to better understand what lay behind all those centuries of legend and myth.	2002-03-23
US	53057371	R1MHLLYWGVK25S	0786402660	563610035	The Historic King Arthur: Authenticating the Celtic Hero of Post-Roman Britain	Books	5	23	23	N	N	A detailed exploration of the roots of Arthurian history	\\"The Historic King Arthur\\" is perhaps not a book suited for first-time travelers through the murky forests of Arthurian history, searching for the reality behind fifteen centuries of myths and tales.  It might be best to first read one or more other works dealing with this great mystery before tackling Frank Reno's highly detailed, deep-delving study of the ancient sources that shed light upon the question.  That way, the journey through the writings of Gildas and Nennius and Geoffrey of Monmouth and various scribes and poets will not be quite so daunting.  But make no mistake about it, once some fundamental grounding in the basics of the Arthurian quest has been obtained, then \\"The Historic King Arthur\\" (and its sequel, \\"Historic Figures In the Arthurian Age\\") should be read carefully.  Reno minutely examines each source (and most of them are to be found with numerous variations) to lay out his case for his solution to the central questions of the Arthurian mystery:  Who was King Arthur?  Where did he live?  When did he live?  Who were his enemies?  What was his role in history?  And what was really his name?<br />Reno acts as a guide in this journey in search of historical truth, explaining his methods and logic in evaluating the evidence, but he does not rigidly insist upon the absolute truth of his conclusions.  Frequently, he explains that there are other reasonable answers to the questions than the one he favors.  Sometimes, such as in his analysis of the locations of many of the battles fought by Arthur (as described in Reno's \\"Historic Figures In the Arthurian Era\\"), he concludes that no single \\"best\\" answer is really possible.  At times, his explanations are complex and subtle to the point where the reader may have difficulty following the path Reno is laying out.  That is perhaps a natural consequence of the type of evidence that must be used and of the detail in which it is presented.  Usually, however, Reno returns to the same subject of investigation later in the book to again address the questions and to clarify his answers.  Thus, attention to detail on the reader's part is required and patience must be exercised as the author slowly builds his case.<br />And what are Reno's answers to what above I termed the central questions?  He believes that Arthur was of a Roman-British background, operating as a high king primarily in Wales and the adjacent midlands, although also in southern England and northern Gaul, from the middle of the Fifth Century AD through the early portion of the Sixth.  Reno contends that many of Arthur's campaigns were waged not against Saxon hordes fresh from Germany, but against Saxons who had been settled in Britain for one or more generations, these \\"English\\" Saxons being in league with leaders and forces of native British.  And Reno believes that \\"Arthur\\" was a man known otherwise to history as Ambrosius Aurelianus and as Riothamus and finally as Arthurex, not a name at all but an epithet connoting his status as a great leader.<br />I will not claim that I am yet wholly convinced of this \\"triad\\" equation of Ambrosius Aurelianus, Riothamus, and Arthur but, as the author himself points out, rejection of this total identity does not negate the validity of many parts of Reno's overall work.  I found to be especial important Reno's conclusions regarding Cerdic, a \\"Saxon\\" king with a wholly Celtic name, and Cerdic's people, the West Saxons.  If Reno is correct, our understanding of the Arthurian era must be substantially altered, with a consequence that the course of events becomes much more clear.  I expect Reno's conclusions to be challenged - this is inevitable in a field where evidence is scant and subject to multiple interpretations - but at the very least he has provided us with a provocative, comprehensive portrait of man and era.<br />To my knowledge there is no other Arthurian study available to the general public that explores the ancient sources in such depth to provide answers to the old questions.  If I might be critical of some peripheral features, I do wish that the index was somewhat more comprehensive and illuminating (given the complexity of the issues at hand, I found myself turning to the index again and again to go back to earlier points) and the maps, although numerous, sometimes lack the visual clarity that could have been achieved.  Nonetheless, \\"The Historic King Arthur\\" and \\"Historic Figures In the Arthurian Era\\" are books that should be of great interest to anyone seriously interested in attempting to glimpse the real King Arthur.e old questions.  If I might be critical of some peripheral features, I do wish that the index was somewhat more comprehensive and illuminating (given the complexity of the issues at hand, I found myself turning to the index again and again to go back to earlier points) and the maps, although numerous, sometimes lack the visual clarity that could have been achieved.  Nonetheless, \\"The Historic King Arthur\\" and \\"Historic Figures In the Arthurian Era\\" are books that should be of great interest to anyone seriously interested in attempting to glimpse the real King Arthur.	2002-03-23
US	53057371	R3DWHJV3DMULAY	0811718549	429967486	The Waterloo Companion: The Complete Guide to History's Most Famous Land Battle	Books	5	56	59	N	N	A top notch guide to the battle of Waterloo	Napoleonic land warfare is not a particularly strong interest of mine except as it pertains to the evolution of tactics used half a century later during the American Civil War.  However, once in a while something on the subject will catch my eye.  And extraordinarily eye-catching is Mark Adkin's &quot;The Waterloo Companion&quot; - over 400 large-format pages on glossy paper, a volume crammed with highly informative text and informative illustrations.  Too often, the illustrations in such over-sized volumes as this seem to exist for no other purpose than to fill up space and look pretty.  But this is not the case in \\"The Waterloo Companion.\\"  There are dozens of exquisite small-scale topographical maps depicting various critical moments of the battle.  Photographs either focus in upon key terrain features or, in the case of panoramic images, are overlaid with markings to show the position and movements of troops during the battle.  The course and form of the famous struggle are made very clear through such devices.  Rather than employing a standard narrative structure, Adkin uses a more nearly encyclopedic approach.  There are biographical essays on numerous general officers on both sides (or all three sides, if the Prussians are counted separately).  Terrain features are individually discussed.  Tactical methods and weapons are analyzed in depth.  Army organization is examined.  The battles for such key locations as La Haye Sainte and Hougoumont are presented in great detail, with multiple maps and photographs showing each phase of fighting.  Orders of battle are given in a readily comprehended fashion, and the history and experiences of the various major subordinate units in all three armies are described.  Physically, this is an extremely handsome volume.  In terms of information presented, it is a treasure trove.  For a military history buff, this is a book to provide many hours of happy browsing.	2002-02-06
US	53057371	R1KL76Z8YO1WTR	0892967471	681692460	Murder on the Trans-Siberian Express: A Porfiry Petrovich Rostnikov Novel	Books	5	18	18	N	N	One of the best of an excellent series	Stuart Kaminsky's series about Porfiry Petrovich Rostnikov and his team of Moscow detectives bears a strong similarity to Ed McBain's \\"87th Precinct\\" police procedural novels.  And that is no coincidence -- Inspector Rostnikov can often be found relaxing with a tattered paperback Ed McBain novel in hand.  \\"Murder on the Trans-Siberian Express\\" is one of the best of the books in the entire series.  Three cases unfold in parallel: An unknown woman is stabbing men seemingly at random on the Moscow subway.  A skinhead rock star, the son of a wealthy media magnate, has been kidnapped.  And Rostnikov is sent on a journey aboard the Trans-Siberian Express train because of a report that a courier is to exchange a suitcase full of money for a mysterious package.  Interwoven with these threads are the evolving personal stories of the detectives.  Is Karpo mentally disintegrating?  Will Sasha Tlach reconcile with his wife?  What does the future hold for Iosef Rostnikov and Elena Timofeyeva?  And what plumbing problems await Porfiry?  Although a newcomer to the series could read \\"Murder on the Trans-Siberian Express\\" with pleasure both for the mysteries presented and for the social commentary upon present-day Russia (a strong point of this Kaminsky series has been its portrait of, first, a decaying Soviet Union and, later, of a new Russia stumbling through chaos), such a reader would not fully appreciate the significance of the background material dealing with the personal lives of the various detectives.  My recommendation is to read this novel, most certainly, but first go back and read those which came before.  In Porfiry Rostnikov Stuart Kaminsky has created an admirable protagonist, both strong and wise.  Fueled by deep compassion, Rostnikov serves justice, not the letter of the law, and he has long ago learned the art of the possible, tempering his quest for justice with the knowledge that such justice is not always obtainable in a world ruled by power and corruption.  Some times -- most times -- a partial victory is all that can be achieved.me times -- most times -- a partial victory is all that can be achieved.	2002-01-26
US	53057371	R2V0AHG4VD3LIF	1557508712	712824416	The Star Captains: Frigate Command in the Napoleonic Wars	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A great look at a select group of naval heroes	&quot;The Star Captains: Frigate Command in the Napoleonic Wars&quot;<br />is an unparalleled look at Royal Navy frigate captains, the officers who were  the historical seeds for Patrick O'Brian's Jack Aubrey and C.S. Forester's Horatio Hornblower.  Wareham's interest in the subject began with his curiosity about Captain James Newman Newman, whose portrait hung in a stairway at the National Maritime Museum in Greenwich.  Seeking to learn more about this thoroughly obscure officer led Wareham beyond standard library books on naval history, and he soon realized that there was little published information about typical frigate captains.  Wareham's research into the subject led to his Phd thesis and this book.<br />What was the career of a post captain like?  What did a career in the navy of this era consist of?  What was the truth behind the popular images of Nelson's navy?  These are the questions that Wareham sought to answer.  Along the way, he provides a good deal of analytical data about frigate captains, including statistics on the length of service between passing for lieutenant and being made post, on the how many years a captain might serve as commander of a frigate, and on frequency of assignments to various duty stations.  Prize agents' accounts for frigates' captures are tabularized.  Family social backgrounds and professions of siblings are listed.  All in all, Wareham's book is a treasure trove of information.  He also describes various frigate battles and their aftermaths, and he discusses the careers of many unheralded Royal Navy captains.  All in all, this is a first-rate resource for better understand the realities of the world so familiar from the works of O'Brian and Forester.	2001-11-18
US	53057371	R2B7PNWHMZPC70	1556225024	873502581	Eyewitness to the Alamo	Books	5	14	16	N	Y	A great resource for studying the Alamo	By compiling all known first-hand accounts of the siege of the Alamo (including some with a debatable authenticity, duly noted by the author), Bill Groneman has produced an excellent, handy resource for studying this famous incident.  Going back to the original sources is always the best way to gain a sense of what really happened, and &quot;Eyewitness to the Alamo&quot; lets the reader do this with a minimum of trouble.  Groneman's comments about the various source documents are a helpful guide to their reliability, although of course not everyone would necessarily agree with his every assessment (I have particularly in mind the De la Pena &quot;Diary&quot;).  This book makes a great companion to Alan Huffines &quot;Blood of Noble Men&quot; in which Huffines arranges excerpts from many of these accounts into chronological order to tell the Alamo story.	2001-11-14
US	53057371	R2BYM13G4BGTFN	1571681949	176678566	Blood of Noble Men: The Alamo Siege and Battle	Books	5	21	23	N	Y	An engrossing chronicle with extraordinary illustrations	Of all the books I have read about the Alamo battle, &quot;The Blood of Noble Men&quot; is the one which I find most engrossing.  Alan Huffines' book derives its excitement from two sources: the words of the men (and women) who were actually there, and the vivid drawings by Gary Zaboly.  Huffines gives us a day-by-day chronicle of the siege and fall of the Alamo which is constructed almost entirely from excerpts from first-hand accounts by Texians and Mexicans, soldiers and civilians.  After a brief introduction to each chapter devoted to a single day's events, the participants speak for themselves.  Sometimes the excerpts are only a sentence long, sometimes several paragraphs.  Occasionally, multiple accounts from the same witness are given.  What emerges is a fascinating picture of what happened, albeit a picture often with multiple conflicting layers.  Disagreement among sources must be expected.  Different persons will often come away from the same incident with wildly varying perceptions of what actually occurred.  And the passage of time and inaccurate reporting will add their own distortions.<br />Through all of this, Huffines lets us read what the sources had to say and allows us to form our own ultimate judgments about their reliability, although in footnotes he does provide background for source authenticity (or the lack of it) and to problems of accuracy - this is one book where the reader should definitely not skip the footnotes.  Because these accounts are drawn from both sides of the conflict, a good balance is achieved in telling a story which has often been reduced to a simple fairy tale of good versus evil.<br />Complementing these primary sources are the Gary Zaboly illustrations.  Each chapter is accompanied by a large aerial view of San Antonio, with a numbered key to the points of interest relative to the action described. More dramatic are the drawings of various incidents mentioned in the text, realistic images of the people and place, based upon careful research. Combined with the participants' words, these pictures give a real &quot;you are there&quot; feeling to the book.<br />Although other books, such as J.R. Edmondson's &quot;The Alamo Story&quot;, may better provide a larger context for the events of March, 1836, none of them in my opinion matches Huffines' work in making those events come alive.n careful research. Combined with the participants' words, these pictures give a real &quot;you are there&quot; feeling to the book.<br />Although other books, such as J.R. Edmondson's &quot;The Alamo Story&quot;, may better provide a larger context for the events of March, 1836, none of them in my opinion matches Huffines' work in making those events come alive.	2001-11-14
US	53057371	R2UP8RIZS861P8	1555911846	26011865	Gunfight at the O.K. Corral: In Words and Pictures	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	A great Western myth captured in paint	Thom Ross knows his O.K. Corral history -- there's no doubt about that -- but it is the O.K. Corral myth that he really seeks to translate into the painting contained in this book.  Whereas most Western American art is firmly realistic, often almost photographic in intent, Ross's art dares to venture into the realm of the abstract to better capture those elements of myth.  In nearly fifty paintings, accompanied by his own text, Thom Ross tells the story of this most famous gunfight in history.  I cannot think of another book which has ever sought to achieve such an end, so I believe that Ross deserves double praise for his creativity.  If you don't know much about this event, then &quot;Gunfight at the O.K. Corral&quot; is not at all a bad place to begin learning.  But even if you have read a dozen books about that day in Tombstone, Ross's book will still have a powerful impact.  And after you close the covers of this slender volume, those images remain in your vision, haunting and somehow very alive.	2001-10-13
US	53057371	R4490CUIL7HLY	0870261126	684318433	Cochise County Stalwarts: A Who's Who of the Territorial Years (2 vol. set)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great resource, great browsing	&quot;Cochise County Stalwarts&quot; is a compilation of biographical essays about hundreds of the men and women who lived (and sometimes died) in or near Tombstone, Arizona, back in the days of the &quot;Wild West&quot;.  Some names are familiar to anyone versed in Western history: Wyatt Earp, Johnny Ringo, and Buckskin Frank Leslie.  But most of the people profiled in the book would come under the heading of &quot;ordinary citizens&quot;, even if sometimes they led rather extraordinary lives.  This is a book which provides a wealth of background information behind the famous story of the &quot;Gunfight at the OK Corral&quot; (of course, it really wasn't at the OK Corral, but &quot;Gunfight in the empty lot down the street&quot; just doesn't have the same ring to it), but is also highly enjoyable to browse through, learning about the fascinating people history usually does not mention.	2001-09-06
US	53057371	RLYL19FSBIEXJ	0743202694	953997941	Money, Money, Money: A Novel of the 87th Precinct (87th Precinct Mysteries)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	&quot;Money, Money, Money&quot; is 24-carat gold	Ed McBain has written 51 books in his &quot;87th Precinct&quot; series of police procedurals and, somehow, he seems to just keep getting better. This latest novel is a complex but fast-moving tale of bad money -- &quot;superbills&quot;, superbly counterfeited hundred dollar bills -- and the trail of death the money leaves behind. As is often the case, McBain's principal detective in the book is Steve Carella who wrestles here not only with homicides but also with some personal demons emerging from his past. And partnered with Carella is the despicable Ollie Weeks -- a racist, sexist, homophobe who happens to be a pretty good detective. And, as usual, the bad guys (and bad women) are quirky and memorable.<br />If you've never read an Ed McBain novel, &quot;Money, Money, Money&quot; wouldn't be a bad place to start. And then you have fifty more to look forward to.	2001-08-31
US	53057371	R26W2MQCBWUP1B	0684859149	702955486	Gettysburg: Day Three	Books	5	9	15	N	N	A solid history of a climactic day of battle	Jeffry Wert is no stranger to Civil War history, having already published a number of books in the field. With &quot;Gettysburg, Day Three&quot; he takes as his subject one of the most famous days of battle during the entire war, the final day of fighting at Gettysburg. Wert has constructed a solid, well-reasoned history, providing a balanced look at both Union and Confederate forces. Inevitably, the great Confederate charge launched against the Union center provides a focus for much of the narrative, but Wert does not neglect the less famous events of that day, including the cavalry actions on either flank of the contending armies. Likewise, his narrative includes the stories of enlisted soldiers as well as generals. This is not a book which attempts to present some new, controversial theories, but it succeeds very well as a comprehensive look at this most famous of American battles.	2001-08-31
US	53057371	RMTG7CCRO4465	1557504822	193265629	Death on the Hellships: Prisoners at Sea in the Pacific War	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A harrowing history of a maritime Dante's Inferno	Gregory Michno's \\"Death on the Hellships: Prisoners at Sea in the Pacific War\\" is a harrowing account of one of the nearly forgotten stories of World War Two - the experiences of Allied POW's aboard Japanese transport ships.  These prisoners, most of them captured during the early months of the war in the Pacific, passed through nearly unimaginable horrors, brutally mistreated by their captors, subjected to starvation, beatings, and deprivation of water, and held in crowded, grossly unsanitary conditions.  And they often fell victim to Allied torpedoes and bombs.  More than 20,000 Allied POW's died at sea, most of them when the transport ships carrying them were attacked by U.S. submarines and aircraft.  Although Allied headquarters often knew of the presence of POW's aboard vessels targeted for attack through radio interception and code breaking, the general policy was to sink the ships anyway, evidently on the basis that the interdiction of critical strategic materials was more important in the long run than the deaths of prisoners-of-war.<br />\\"Death on the Hellships\\" is a veritable Dante's Inferno at sea, the tragedies chronicled month by month.  Michno's research into previously classified records and with survivor first-hand accounts far surpasses that of anyone who has touched upon this topic before, and he deserves great credit for rescuing this important story before it was lost forever in the fog of the past.  It is not a tale for the faint-hearted.  Although the subject covers too broad a time and geographical area to permit in-depth narratives of every prison ship voyage, Michno does provide a wealth of survivor stories illustrating the experiences of these unfortunate men and women.  Anyone who reads the history of this tragic episode of modern war will not soon forget it.	2001-08-13
US	53057371	RQOPEDOM0TEPQ	0312978340	931377968	The Skull Mantra (Inspector Shan Tao Yun)	Books	5	19	23	N	N	An engrossing mystery in a mysterious land	I know nothing about Tibetan Buddhism and so cannot comment on how well or poorly Pattison does at portraying the beliefs and practices of that religion, but at the very least I believe he fully succeeded in creating a convincing portrait of a culture alien both to American readers and, to a great extent, to the book's Chinese protaganist, Shan Tao Yun, a former police investigator who is now a prisoner in the 404th Construction Brigade, condemned to work on a road gang in the mountains of Tibet because he proved too honest in Beijing.  There is much in Shan which inevitably reminded me of Arkady Renko of Martin Cruz Smith's &quot;Gorky Park&quot; and sequels.  Both Shan and Renko are driven to find the truth no matter how much their masters would prefer a more convenient solution to the crimes at hand.  And Shan, like Renko before him, finds his quest for the truth becomes a path to his own moral growth.  For me, the mystery, the setting, and the central characters all worked to make an absorbing tale that kept me interested to the last page.	2001-04-16
US	53057371	R3VP87WQI2J0XL	089296717X	433297814	Bad News (Dortmunder Novels)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Bad News is good news	Death, taxes, and a &quot;Dortmunder&quot; novel from Donald Westlake -- they're all something you can count on (and the &quot;Dortmunder&quot; novel is a lot more fun than the other two).<br />Another thing guaranteed is that nothing ever goes right for John Dortmunder, a simple, honest (well, sort of), hard-working thief who never gets an even break.  As with all of Donald Westlake's novels about Dortmunder and his cohorts, just hang on because it is going to be a strange and funny ride.  In previous books in the series, we have seen Dortmunder stealing jewels and paintings and banks (yes, &quot;stealing&quot; a bank, not robbing it), but never before has he had to steal a dead Indian.  Of course, it is all in a good cause -- money.  And rest assured, all will come out wrong in the end.  Dead Indians, live Indians, Indian casinos, double-crossing con artists, small town lawyers, big city lawyers, coffins playing musical chairs ...  No wonder John Dortmunder always looks so downcast.<br />This one is money in the bank, folks.  &quot;Bad News&quot; is good news for readers.	2001-04-15
US	53057371	R1A8UYVQQ24TSZ	0802137946	255087586	Barrow's Boys: A Stirring Story of Daring, Fortitude, and Outright Lunacy	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Lunatic heroes for king (and queen) and country!	I very much enjoyed this history of British exploration expeditions dispatched by John Barrow, the Second Secretary of the Admiralty for most of the first half of the 19th Century.  Barrow's greatest passion was the Northwest Passage, a presumed water route around the northern edge of North America, linking the Atlantic with the Pacific.  The mere fact that such a route would be utterly impracticable for any kind of routine navigation seems to have deterred no one from making the effort.  Expedition after expedition was launched over more than four decades in search of the elusive prize.  Scarcely less of interest to Barrow, although a goal somewhat more easily achieved, was the Niger River of West Africa.  Scarcely more than a rumor, where did this great river flow?  Did if flow east or west?  Did it join the Nile or perhaps the Congo?  Did it flow into the ocean at some unknown point?  Did it simply evaporate into the desert?<br />The North Pole, Antarctica and Australia also attracted Barrow's attention, but again and again it was the Northwest Passage and the mysterious Niger which were the quests of expeditions initiated by Barrow.  His chosen explorers were, for the most part, young Royal Navy officers desperate for employment and promotion in a service stagnated after the end of the Napoleonic wars.  At times, these men seemed to expend as much energy in squabbling with one another and with Barrow as in exploring the unknown blanks on the world globe.  On his part, Barrow appeared unable to understand their failures.  After all, on a map it was all quite straightforward: just go from Point A to Point B and what could be easier than that?  The endless miles of mountainous ice or sun-baked sand were not terribly formidable when viewed from London.<br />The exploring expeditions were often under funded and frequently both ill-conceived and badly managed, depending on their leaders' personalities and experience.  But their survivors, or at least most of them, were celebrated upon their return to civilization and they became as well known as modern film stars, despite whatever shortcomings should have been evident to any dispassionate observer.  John Franklin won honor and fame as \\"the man who ate his boots\\" when his first expedition virtually starved to death (and 11 out of 20 men did in fact die) because of his failure to provide anything like adequate supplies.  Franklin went on, of course, to lead other expeditions including his final one which vanished into the Arctic wilderness and itself became the long-sought goal of future expeditions.<br />Undoubtedly the most charming of these characters was George Francis Lyon who one year was sliding down Saharan sand dunes in search of the Niger River while bellowing out \\"Rule Britannia\\" and literally the next year was dodging icebergs on the northern fringes of Hudson Bay.  Lyon could have been an elder cousin to Sir Harry Flashman, taking delight in disguising himself as the Arab Said ben abd Allah to cross North Africa and somehow finding himself repeatedly in the company of unclothed women, were they African or Eskimo.  Lyon cheerfully described his interests as \\"balls, riding, dining &amp; making a fool of myself.\\"<br />Fleming tells the story of these explorers with relish, marveling at both their courage and their frequent spectacular displays of bad judgment or outright lunacy.  He obviously admires these men while good-naturedly pointing out their foibles.  It makes for a riveting series of adventures, perfect for reading when you're not in a wet and cold wooden ship's hull stuck in the ice somewhere north of the Arctic circle as you contemplate whether your right or your left boot would taste better.ere celebrated upon their return to civilization and they became as well known as modern film stars, despite whatever shortcomings should have been evident to any dispassionate observer.  John Franklin won honor and fame as \\"the man who ate his boots\\" when his first expedition virtually starved to death (and 11 out of 20 men did in fact die) because of his failure to provide anything like adequate supplies.  Franklin went on, of course, to lead other expeditions including his final one which vanished into the Arctic wilderness and itself became the long-sought goal of future expeditions.<br />Undoubtedly the most charming of these characters was George Francis Lyon who one year was sliding down Saharan sand dunes in search of the Niger River while bellowing out \\"Rule Britannia\\" and literally the next year was dodging icebergs on the northern fringes of Hudson Bay.  Lyon could have been an elder cousin to Sir Harry Flashman, taking delight in disguising himself as the Arab Said ben abd Allah to cross North Africa and somehow finding himself repeatedly in the company of unclothed women, were they African or Eskimo.  Lyon cheerfully described his interests as \\"balls, riding, dining &amp; making a fool of myself.\\"  <br />Fleming tells the story of these explorers with relish, marveling at both their courage and their frequent spectacular displays of bad judgment or outright lunacy.  He obviously admires these men while good-naturedly pointing out their foibles.  It makes for a riveting series of adventures, perfect for reading when you're not in a wet and cold wooden ship's hull stuck in the ice somewhere north of the Arctic circle as you contemplate whether your right or your left boot would taste better.	2001-04-09
US	53057371	R1PVGZVZI3TZ0D	0385497431	710198060	English Passengers: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	I'd like to give it 6 stars	Okay -- this is a guaranteed you-gotta-read novel, winner of the UK's Whitbread Book of the Year award.  How the heck do I adequately describe it?  A wonderfully sly and ironic black comedy ... a wrenching tale of the destruction of a native people by the fatal trio of Victorian religion, science and colonialism (in which it is proven that benevolence is deadlier than the sword) ... a wild sea voyage filled with storms, mutiny and scurvy ... all of the above and more.<br />The novel follows two converging tracks.  In one, we follow the misadventures of the good ship Sincerity of the Isle of Man, owned and commanded by Captain Illiam Quillian Kewley who in the year of our Lord 1857 has decided to emulate his great-grandfather (known as &quot;Big Kewley&quot; because he was the only Kewley ever to make money rather than lose it) and go into the unofficial importing business while by-passing all those troublesome and expensive customs duties (&quot;Forget all this fashionable talk of free trade, as it's nothing but English mimicking.  My great-grandfather was free trading before it was even invented.&quot;).  Alas, an unfortunate encounter with a coast guard cutter endangers the Sincerity's unofficial cargo of tobacco, French brandy and French pornography (The picture &quot;was of a young miss, brave as could be, sat in a comfortable chair, smiling and holding a kitten.  As for clothes, well, she had a neat little bonnet and a fine pair of ankle boots with laces up to the top.  And of course the kitten.  But that was about as far as it went.  The detail was very fine.&quot;) is the first in a chain of events which ends with the Sincerity chartered to take a crack-brained expedition in search of the true biblical Garden of Eden in the interior of Tasmania.  The second story track starts in 1820 and follows the virtual destruction of the aboriginal population of Tasmania at the hands of escaped convicts, government officials, and well-meaning fools.  Eventually the two threads merge with the arrival in Tasmania of the Sincerity with the crackpot explorers (and the tobacco, brandy and pornography).<br />Kneale tells the story from the viewpoints of about twenty different characters, each in his or her own distinctive narrative voice (my favorites are the hapless Manxman Captain Kewley and the half-caste Tasmanian Peevay, renamed &quot;Cromwell&quot; by his deadly English benefactors) in a dazzling display of bravura literary technique.  Although the expedition to find the Garden of Eden is fictional (the eccentric vicar in charge has invented a theory of &quot;divine refrigeration&quot; to explain how life could have appeared so soon after the creation of the world while his scientist-deputy would feel at home with Adolf Hitler), many of the events connected with the near-extinction of the Tasmanian native population are drawn straight from history.<br />Like I said, you-gotta-read this novel -- it's funny, it's exciting, it's moving, it's indescribible.hreads merge with the arrival in Tasmania of the Sincerity with the crackpot explorers (and the tobacco, brandy and pornography).<br />Kneale tells the story from the viewpoints of about twenty different characters, each in his or her own distinctive narrative voice (my favorites are the hapless Manxman Captain Kewley and the half-caste Tasmanian Peevay, renamed &quot;Cromwell&quot; by his deadly English benefactors) in a dazzling display of bravura literary technique.  Although the expedition to find the Garden of Eden is fictional (the eccentric vicar in charge has invented a theory of &quot;divine refrigeration&quot; to explain how life could have appeared so soon after the creation of the world while his scientist-deputy would feel at home with Adolf Hitler), many of the events connected with the near-extinction of the Tasmanian native population are drawn straight from history.  <br />Like I said, you-gotta-read this novel -- it's funny, it's exciting, it's moving, it's indescribible.	2001-04-04
US	53057371	R1AM2PZ1KLXV5B	1557501769	327237387	Captain Blakeley and the Wasp: The Cruise of 1814	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Excellent book on a largely forgotten War of 1812 commander	Stephen Duffy's &quot;Captain Blakeley and the Wasp: The Cruise of 1814&quot; tells, and tells well, the story of Master Commandant Johnston Blakeley and the highly successful and ultimately doomed cruise of the US Navy sloop of war Wasp in 1814.  Through exhaustive research, Duffy chronicles in detail the building of the Wasp at Newburyport, Massachusetts, and Blakeley's struggles to outfit and crew his new ship, an effort made more difficult by national politics and by rivalries within the Navy command structure.  The tale of the Wasp's cruise across the Atlantic and into the English Channel is of necessity less comprehensive because many crucial records were lost when Blakeley and his command vanished at sea after twin victories over Royal Navy brigs in British home waters.  Although Blakeley was able to forward his official reports of the two battles before his ship disappeared, it is the missing unofficial information which prevents Duffy from fully reconstructing what happened when the Wasp captured HMS Reindeer and then sank HMS Avon.  Despite this limitation, Duffy does provide clear analyses of the two actions, reaching rather different conclusions about the sequence of events during the Wasp-Reindeer fight than heretofore have been published.<br />It has been said that a biographer must have a personal liking for his subject for the labor in writing the book to be anything other than a burden, and certainly Duffy has a great admiration for Johnston Blakeley.  His assessment of his hero as America's most accomplished naval commander during the age of sail perhaps errs on the side of hyperbole, but the book leaves no doubt that Blakeley deserves greater fame than he is usually accorded.  Duffy was handicapped by the paucity of primary source accounts from Blakeley and his close associates, so he frequently was forced to resort to speculation about the thoughts of the young officer regarding various situations.  At the very least, Duffy presents a valuable and interesting study of a junior officer in the small American navy at the beginning of the 19th Century.d interesting study of a junior officer in the small American navy at the beginning of the 19th Century.	2001-03-19
US	53057371	R3TWS8L7Z5DLEW	0141000023	284000734	The Gates of the Alamo	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A truly fine historical novel	This past weekend I was in a local bookstore, seeking something interesting to read.  Nothing really caught my fancy, and then I happened to notice a thick novel:  &quot;The Gates of the Alamo&quot; by Stephen Harrigan.  I must admit that at first impulse I was skeptical; after all, the Alamo is one of those topics which lends itself to paeans filled with noble, square-jawed heroes who die nobly and heroically, with rifle in hand and a patriotic sentiment on their lips.  But, a glance at the large number of very favorable comments from reviewers (and not all from Texas, which is important since many Texans tend not to be entirely rational when discussing the Alamo) convinced me that the book might be worth a try.<br />&quot;The Gates of the Alamo&quot; is told from the viewpoint of half a dozen characters, both Mexican and &quot;norteamericano&quot;.  All of these characters are fictional, except for Joe, Colonel Travis's slave (about whom we actually know very little from history), so we see the familiar central figures of the Alamo story -- Travis, Bowie, Crockett, Santa Ana, Sam Houston -- from a distance.  This allows Harrigan to hold firm to his stated goal of &quot;absolute fidelity to the truth of the events&quot; without having to resort to invented motivations and thoughts of historical figures.  And he does an excellent job of constructing his story on a sturdy framework of genuine history.  Certainly there are many elements of Alamo history which are open to varying interpretations, but Harrigan stays close to those events for which there is persuasive evidence.  Undoubtedly, there are those who will not be happy with some of Harrigan's depictions of some of the traditional Alamo heroes.  No, none are presented as villains, but they may be a little less than twelve feet tall.  Unquestionably the most attractive of them is David Crockett, drawn as a genial man instinctively drawn to practicing personal politics with everyone he meets, but underneath all that, a man who is both goodhearted and, well, heroic.<br />&quot;The Gates of the Alamo&quot; is more than a recounting of a famous battle, however.  Indeed, the Alamo is not even seen until the halfway mark of the novel.  Before the first Mexican soldier rides into San Antonio de Bexar, we are already deeply involved with the personal stories of the viewpoint characters and, through them, we have come to understand much about the &quot;Texian&quot; settlers and the Mexican army.  And the attraction of those personal stories cannot be discounted either; they are complex, very real people walking through the pages of the novel.  They include a character as unexpected as Edmund McGowan, a natural scientist who has spent the past ten years as a botanist under contract to the Mexican government to study the plants of Texas; he frequently finds himself distracted by the sight of some flower as yet undescribed in scientific literature or by the flight of magnificent flocks of birds overhead.<br />When the final battle of the Alamo does come, Harrigan provides a powerful, intense picture of desperate combat, a battle deeply involving people with whom we have become intimately familiar.  Neither glamorous nor a simplistic &quot;war is terrible&quot; diatribe, it is a realistic portrait of what happened that morning.<br />&quot;The Gates of the Alamo&quot; stands head and shoulders above most historical novels.at, a man who is both goodhearted and, well, heroic.<br />&quot;The Gates of the Alamo&quot; is more than a recounting of a famous battle, however.  Indeed, the Alamo is not even seen until the halfway mark of the novel.  Before the first Mexican soldier rides into San Antonio de Bexar, we are already deeply involved with the personal stories of the viewpoint characters and, through them, we have come to understand much about the &quot;Texian&quot; settlers and the Mexican army.  And the attraction of those personal stories cannot be discounted either; they are complex, very real people walking through the pages of the novel.  They include a character as unexpected as Edmund McGowan, a natural scientist who has spent the past ten years as a botanist under contract to the Mexican government to study the plants of Texas; he frequently finds himself distracted by the sight of some flower as yet undescribed in scientific literature or by the flight of magnificent flocks of birds overhead.<br />When the final battle of the Alamo does come, Harrigan provides a powerful, intense picture of desperate combat, a battle deeply involving people with whom we have become intimately familiar.  Neither glamorous nor a simplistic &quot;war is terrible&quot; diatribe, it is a realistic portrait of what happened that morning.<br />&quot;The Gates of the Alamo&quot; stands head and shoulders above most historical novels.	2001-03-07
US	53057371	R2MUEWWO8O9AMJ	0312920040	836911555	Night Soldiers	Books	4	222	227	N	N	The beginning of a first-rate sequence of espionage novels	With &quot;Night Soldiers&quot;, Alan Furst began a sequence of espionage novels set in the Europe of the late 1930's and early 1940's.  Note that I said &quot;sequence&quot; and not &quot;series&quot;.  Only two of the six novels published thus far feature the same hero, but all are connected by time and place and the recurrence of certain secondary characters who step from the shadows in various books.  Although, perhaps there really is one constant, recurring central character -- the city of Paris.  Inevitably, Furst's heroes sooner or later pass through Paris.<br />Alan Furst's greatest skill perhaps lies in his ability to create an all-pervasive sense of Europe caught between the terrors of facism and Stalinism.  &quot;Night Soldiers&quot; takes us from Bulgaria to the Soviet Union to Civil War Spain to France to Eastern Europe again.  Mostly the story is seen through the eyes of Khristo Stoianev, initially a Bulgarian lad recruited into the Soviet NKVD, eventually a spy, a criminal, and a partisan.  The emphasis is not on spy-thriller type &quot;action&quot; (although &quot;Night Soldiers&quot; does contain a healthy dose) as much as it is on covert operational technique (for which Furst's work deserves very high marks for authenticity).  It may be that the book is a little overly ambitious, with Stoianev becoming ensnarled into an improbably broad range of events in several countries, but it provides an absorbing portrait of a continent gone mad.	2001-02-25
US	53057371	R1COQC0CFJ87VX	0006511317	676495450	Dark Star	Books	5	23	25	N	N	An espionage novel of the finest kind	Second in Alan Furst's sequence of espionage novels set in late 1930's and early 1940's Europe, &quot;Dark Star&quot; focuses upon the experiences of Andre Szara, a Soviet journalist of Polish-Jewish origins and a reluctant spy for the NKVD.  Szara's byzantine path takes him through the mutual horrors of Hitler's Germany and of the Stalinist underground.  Furst's hero is certainly no ideologue, just a decent man caught up in forces stronger than he is, a man trying to find a way to survive and, when possible, to do a little good.  The espionage tradecraft depicted is highly authentic, certainly fully as much as anything from John leCarre.  &quot;Dark Star&quot; is a fully absorbing novel, painting a thoroughly convincing portrait of a past era.	2001-02-25
US	53057371	RXOB3DNEQWMGQ	0743215052	769417678	The Constant Gardener: A Novel	Books	5	95	101	N	N	An emotionally powerful new novel from John le Carre	Too often a commercially successful novelist -- especially one identified with a particular genre -- falls into the easy routine of writing in essence the same book over and over again or, at best, cutting corners to quickly finsh off yet another manuscript to be shipped off to the printer in time for the annual publication date.  But that is not John le Carre.  His work almost always shows a progression in his exploration of theme and technique.  Certainly there are echoes of his most recent works from &quot;Our Game&quot; through &quot;Single &amp; Single&quot;, but in &quot;The Constant Gardener&quot; we are drawn even more deeply into an identification with the central character during his lonely odyssey.  I cannot imagine how anyone could read this novel without being strongly emotionally affected.	2000-12-16
US	53057371	R11SOD2APM3L24	0892966688	74683708	Fall of a Cosmonaut	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Another solid entry in a great police procedural series	Stuart Kaminsky makes no secret that the Inspector Profiry Rostnikov novels are inspired by the &quot;87th Precinct&quot; books by Ed McBain.  Indeed, Rostnikov himself can ofter be found re-reading a dog-eared copy of one of the 87th Precinct books.  Like their model, the Rostnikov novels usually depict a detective squad working multiple cases, seeking the little clues which eventually will point their way to solutions to the mysteries.  The world of Inspector Rostnikov -- the Soviet Union and, in the later novels, post-Soviet Russia -- is even more morally ambiguous than McBain's fictional city of Isola, and Rostnikov often finds himself between serving justice and enforcing the law.  I find Rostnikov, the gentle, physically powerful detective whose greatest relaxation is found in repairing faulty plumbing, to be one of the most appealing characters in modern crime fiction, a man both wise and compassionate.  &quot;Fall of a Cosmonaut&quot; is another strong addition to the series, with the detectives pursuing three seperate mysteries while the stories of their personal lives advance yet further.  I must emphasize that the Rostnikov books really should be read in order for maximimum enjoyment, as the characters and the crises in their lives progress from novel to novel and much would be lost if their futures were to be relieved too soon by reading out of order.	2000-12-01
US	53057371	R1SHLF39QCT2QT	1930900007	979064135	David and the Phoenix	Books	5	23	23	N	N	A wonderfully imaginative tale of adventure and growth	I first read &quot;David and the Phoenix&quot; in 1958 when it became a selection of the Weekly Reader Chilren's Book Club.  I loved it then and I love it still.  I cannot think of another book which quite so filled me with a sense of wonder.  Edward Ormondroyd's vivid descriptions paint bright scenes of characters and places in the reader's imagination.  It is the kind of book that a child takes to heart, where it very well may remain ever after.  I know that, even before reading the recently reprinted edition, I could recount virtually every episode in the tale, with Joan Raysor's simple pen sketches still providing the framework for my mind's eye recreation of the story.  The book is full of humor, adventure, wonder, and gentle wisdom.  This is a genuine classic of imaginative children's literature.	2000-11-16
US	53057371	R3UCXDRZSAP7Y	0810934302	758269380	Maps and Mapmakers of the Civil War	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A beautiful window into Civil War mapping	The heart and soul of this book are the numerous reproductions of original Civil War maps, most of them hand-drawn by topographical engieers.  Some are familiar from their later, engraved versions which appeared in the atlas for the Official Records (although the originals shown here are always more vivid and immediate), while others have not been seen their original wartime use.  Many are quite simply works of art, transforming the three-dimensional world into an exquisite two-dimensional rendition.<br />But superbly reproduced maps are not the only treasures in McElfresh's book.  The introductory chapters about the work and importance of topographical engineers to the Civil War is perhaps the best account of them yet published.  And one-page biographies are provided for many of them, some famous for other, post-war careers (Ambrose Bierce and George Armstrong Custer, for example).<br />This is a book which belongs in any collection of Civil War material.	2000-11-12
US	53057371	R3ETSQK07U0VPZ	0786707690	615653171	Cochrane: The Life and Exploits of a Fighting Captain	Books	4	18	18	N	N	A very sympathetic biography of an extraordinary warrior	Harvey's biography of Thomas, Lord Cochrane, one of the Royal Navy's greatest fighting captains of the Napoleonic era and a hero of the liberation of South America is a vivid, highly sympathetic account of a remarkable man -- sailor, politician, inventor.  As the publisher is eager to point out, Cochrane was a model for Jack Aubrey, Patrick O'Brian's marvelous creation (although I must point out that O'Brian gave his literary hero a rather different personality, even if many of his naval experiences and civilian woes are parallels to Cochrane's).  It is difficult to believe some of the exploits that Cochrane pulled off and, if they were the invention of a novelist, you would be tempted to dismiss them as being realistically impossible.<br />I cannot say that Harvey introduces much new material unfamiliar to those who have read earlier biographies of Lord Cochrane, although he perhaps gives a deservedly greater emphasis to his role as a liberator of Latin America from the Spanish empire.  Certainly if someone has not read another biography of this extraordinary man, Harvey's book would be a very good place to start.  My only real criticism is that perhaps Harvey is somewhat too enamored of his hero, too eager to dismiss possible flaws.  This aside, I must believe that Harvey's book should appeal greatly to fans of the nautical fiction of C.S. Forester and Patrick O'Brian -- it is a case where truth is stranger and more unbelievable than fiction.	2000-11-06
US	53057371	R2G0MIBLU2E3LH	0071364471	370006843	The Last Log of the Titanic: What Really Happened on the Doomed Ship's Bridge?	Books	4	32	32	N	Y	An original and controversial look at the Titanic	David G. Brown's \\"The Last Log of the Titanic\\" should prove to be a controversial addition to the literature about the loss of the famous liner during her 1912 maiden voyage.  This is not a book for the casual reader whose knowledge and interests about the Titanic are largely defined by the James Cameron movie.  Rather, it is sharply focused upon the mechanics of the collision and subsequent sinking, together with the decisions made by Captain E.J. Smith and White Star Line chairman Bruce Ismay that influenced those events.  While this book may have only limited appeal to those people mostly attracted by the human drama aspects of the tragedy, \\"The Last Log of the Titanic\\" should strongly interest persons who want to understand just what really happened to the ship itself.<br />The actual ship's log of the Titanic was lost during the sinking, so David Brown has \\"reconstructed\\" what that document might have been, based upon his minute-by-minute - even second-by-second - examination of the sequence of events.  To do this, he has closely studied the primary evidence (especially the official inquiry testimony by survivors), but much of his reconstruction is drawn directly from his analysis of the physical damage and his own understanding of the characteristics and limitations of ship handling.  Brown has relevant professional training and experience in this regard; he holds a US Coast Guard Masters License.<br />The most controversial portions of Brown's narrative can be summarized into three areas:  First, he contends that the ship's lookouts spotted the iceberg several minutes before the collision, but failed to understand what they were seeing.  Second, Brown concludes that the damage to the hull came from running over a projecting shelf of ice, not from a grazing impact along the side of the hull as depicted in numerous movies and books; and he also argues that the pattern of damage proves that the Titanic made two turns before the collision, one swinging the bow away from the berg, the second pushing the bow back towards the ice mountain.  Third, Brown maintains that the rapid sinking (and thus the large number of casualties) was due to a fatal decision taken by Smith and Ismay to steam towards Halifax immediately after the collision, before the nature of the damage had been adequately ascertained; in Brown's view this action guaranteed that the stricken vessel could not remain afloat until rescue vessels arrived on the scene.<br />In my opinion, the evidence for the first of Brown's theses (that the iceberg was sighted, although not recognized, several minutes before the collision) is minimal and ambiguous.  It does provide grounds for interesting speculation about how the history of that night could have been changed, but whether or not such a sighting was made is largely irrelevant to the main thrust of \\"The Last Log of the Titanic\\": the nitty-gritty details of how the ship actually sank.  It is in these areas - the manner of the collision and the nature of the damage, plus the possibility that the damage was seriously aggravated by an incautious resumption of travel - that Brown's book will likely have its greatest impact.  I cannot see how serious students of the disaster can ignore his conclusions without first making a careful evaluation of the evidence and his analysis.  If Brown's explanation of the collision or of the subsequent actions taken is valid, then he has made an important contribution to our understanding of that well-remembered night.away from the berg, the second pushing the bow back towards the ice mountain.  Third, Brown maintains that the rapid sinking (and thus the large number of casualties) was due to a fatal decision taken by Smith and Ismay to steam towards Halifax immediately after the collision, before the nature of the damage had been adequately ascertained; in Brown's view this action guaranteed that the stricken vessel could not remain afloat until rescue vessels arrived on the scene.<br />In my opinion, the evidence for the first of Brown's theses (that the iceberg was sighted, although not recognized, several minutes before the collision) is minimal and ambiguous.  It does provide grounds for interesting speculation about how the history of that night could have been changed, but whether or not such a sighting was made is largely irrelevant to the main thrust of \\"The Last Log of the Titanic\\": the nitty-gritty details of how the ship actually sank.  It is in these areas - the manner of the collision and the nature of the damage, plus the possibility that the damage was seriously aggravated by an incautious resumption of travel - that Brown's book will likely have its greatest impact.  I cannot see how serious students of the disaster can ignore his conclusions without first making a careful evaluation of the evidence and his analysis.  If Brown's explanation of the collision or of the subsequent actions taken is valid, then he has made an important contribution to our understanding of that well-remembered night.	2000-11-03
US	53057371	R2MJEW7ZTRA3YV	0312209282	12186643	Last Seen in Massilia:  A Novel of Ancient Rome	Books	5	19	20	N	N	The best Roman mystery series has gotten even better ...	Frequently with series novels of any kind, although maybe it is most evident with mystery series, a clear pattern emerges: after an energetic and imaginative beginning with the first few volumes, the later books recycle characters, plots, and situations.  They become, very simply, predictable -- perhaps comfortable for the reader in that predictability, but nonetheless they have lost the capacity for surprise and expansion.<br />&quot;Last Seen in Massilia&quot;, the seventh novel (plus a volume of short stories) in Saylor's &quot;Roma Sub Rosa&quot; series centering upon the amateur detective Gordianus the Finder in First Century BCE Rome, defies the familiar pattern.  Not only has Saylor maintained a high level of creativity and historical atmosphere, the series is steadily gaining added depth and power.  Perhaps this is because Saylor has wisely woven the most recent plots into the extraordinary events of the last decades of the Roman Republic, when ancient institutions crumbled and naked ambition propelled the likes of Julius Caesar to the heights.  Murder, betrayal, intrigue ... the real-life history of the times has proven fertile ground for Saylor's novels.  But it is not merely historical events which make &quot;Last Seen in Massilia&quot; such a strong and even disturbing novel -- that power derives from the characters Saylor has created and the evolving relationships between them.  When I finished the last page of this newest novel and set the book aside, I felt genuinely moved by what Gordianus had experienced.  Saylor's novels are not only about Roman history; they genuinely examine what lies within us all.	2000-10-24
US	53057371	R1SOOYH7G9NEE2	0684834170	548911669	Boundaries	Books	5	108	108	N	Y	A brilliant artist explains her work	Maya Lin's \\"Boundaries\\" is much like her three-dimensional creations - austere, at once both subtle and direct, outwardly detached, and ultimately effective in evoking a deep emotional response from within the beholder rather than imposing an exterior sentiment.  Lin, of course, first came to prominence two decades ago when, as an undergraduate architecture student, she won the prestigious design competition for the Vietnam Veterans Memorial on the Mall in Washington, D.C.  Her concept, popularly known as \\"The Wall,\\" was fiercely criticized at that time for its radical departure from traditional memorial designs, yet from its unveiling in 1982 the Vietnam Veterans Memorial has been accorded widespread recognition for its profound aptness and - there is no better word - genius.  Although Lin's work since that remarkable debut has been on a smaller physical scale, it continues to follow a line of imaginative external simplicity in use of shape and space, covertly deceptive in masking emotional complexity beneath.  The title of the book is meant to express Lin's view that she and her creations inhabit the boundary between distinctly different qualities - architecture-art, natural-urban, inside-outside, Asian-American - simultaneously being neither and both.<br />\\"Boundaries\\" is not an autobiography.  Maya Lin speaks through her architecture and her sculptures, and this book unwaveringly focuses upon that work and the creative process behind it.  While the photographs in the volume are effective in presenting a broad impression of design and form, the real pictures are those drawn by Lin's words.  For a visual artist, she has a rare appreciation of verbal power and substance.  In fact, Maya Lin regards words as a vital basis for her designs, the reflection of her own background: her father was a ceramist and her mother a poet.  As a physical object, the book itself has purposely been given a unique character to fittingly express Lin's artistic vision, occupying the boundary between \\"art book\\" and \\"reading book\\".  The text literally begins on the inside front cover and spans the entirety of the volume, ending only on the inside back cover.  Even the jacket has been incorporated as a harmonious, integral component of the whole.  Like Lin's creations erected in public spaces and those fashioned in her studio, \\"Boundaries\\" is an exquisite embodiment of a meeting between restraint and stimulation.undary between \\"art book\\" and \\"reading book\\".  The text literally begins on the inside front cover and spans the entirety of the volume, ending only on the inside back cover.  Even the jacket has been incorporated as a harmonious, integral component of the whole.  Like Lin's creations erected in public spaces and those fashioned in her studio, \\"Boundaries\\" is an exquisite embodiment of a meeting between restraint and stimulation.	2000-10-17
US	53057371	RRXB8I2S9Y8K9	0521564565	151261674	The Athenian Trireme: The History and Reconstruction of an Ancient Greek Warship	Books	4	15	16	N	N	The reconstruction and testing of an ancient trireme	In its own era, the trireme was undoubtedly the pinnacle of technical complexity and achievement, at least the equivalent of a modern jet fighter or nuclear submarine.  In the approximately 2500 years since that time, however, almost all detailed information as to how these warships were actually designed and used.  &quot;The Athenium Trireme&quot; is a in-depth study of the reconstruction of such a vessel based upon what scraps of information survived (chiefly snippets of dialogue in plays, a few brief passages in ancient histories, and a handful of vase paintings and the like), illuminated by modern understanding of ship design and fluid mechanics.  Based upon the research presented in this book, in the 1980's a full-sized trireme was built and, over several years, tested by the most fundamental and meaningful method -- rowing the vessel, constantly studying and modifying techniques and, where possible, physical design details.  As a result of this project, our understanding of this crucial element of Greek history is far better than ever before and we can more intelligently read the ancient sources describing the Persian and Peloponnesian Wars.  Make no mistake about it -- this is a scholarly book, but it describes a rare meeting of academia and the practical world which leaves us richer for the experience.	2000-10-12
US	53057371	R3J7UKLPAU03MO	0813334829	590768788	Extinct Humans	Books	5	51	55	N	N	Absorbing account of human evolution	&quot;Extinct Humans&quot; is a fascinating account of human evolution, extraordinarily illustrated with crisp, powerful photographs of fossils  which drive home the point that these are the remains of actual beings who  have inhabited this world before us, whether they were our direct ancestors  or instead &quot;cousins&quot; to our own line of descent.<br />Tattersall and  Schwartz have studied not just the literature on the subject, but virtually  all the fossils themselves, giving them a perhaps unmatched command of the  variations in the homanid fossil record.  They argue persuasively in a  clear, well-organized text that modern Homo sapiens is the sole survivor of  the many distinct homanid species which have existed over the past two  million years, that most of the fossils which have been found represent not  ancestors of our own specific line, but relatives which split off in  different directions before ultimately coming to a literal dead end.  Their  discussion of the interaction between Neaderthals and modern humans in  Europe (and possibly between Homo erectus and modern humans in southeast  Asia) is especially absorbing, delving into questions of technological  change, the emergence of symbolic thought, and the creation of  language.<br />The study of human evolution has, well, evolved enormously in  the 35 years I have been interested in the topic.  &quot;Extinct  Humans&quot; is, to my way of thinking, today's best summary and analysis  of current knowledge.	2000-08-13
US	53057371	R2VZF0BEPF3ZH6	0811825248	183498195	The Civil War in Depth, Volume II	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A small peak through a time machine	&quot;The Civil War in Depth, Volume II&quot; is Bob Zeller's followup to his first book of Civil War stereo photographs, published three years ago. As he explains in the foreward, Zeller had not intended to do a sequel, even though there had been some outstanding stereo views he had not been able to include in the first volume. Less than two years ago, however, he was granted access to a phenomenal collection of Civil War stereo photos compiled by Robin Stanford, an amateur historian (and that is &quot;amateur&quot; in all the best senses). Photos from Ms. Stanford's collection provide nearly half the images in the present volume.<br />In this book we see in three-dimensions battlefields and campgrounds, generals and private soldiers, the living and the dead, great cities and slave plantations. Viewing these images is like being granted a small peak through a time machine. They give an unmatched immediacy to the Civil War and the people who lived through it -- or died in its battles. The photographs of the dead (some familiar from their usual &quot;mono&quot; reproductions) are especially powerful, the reality of battlefield death driven home when you for the first time see the soldiers' bodies seemingly at your feet.	2000-08-13
US	53057371	R1P09F9V05018L	0312262418	452669690	Tutankhamun: The Life and Death of a Pharaoh	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A thought provoking analysis of ancient Egypt	I give very high marks to Christine El Mahdy's \\"Tutankhamen\\" for its  vigorous, insightful examination of the reign of the so-called Boy-king.  Actually, her book could be accurately titled \\"Akhenaten, Nefertiti,  Smenkhare, Tutankhamen, and Ay\\" because her study extends to include all  the \\"Amarna Period\\".  El Mahdy contends, and rightly so I believe, that  much of the conventional wisdom about this era of Egyptian history and its  rulers is based not on a careful examination of the evidence, but upon  outdated theories first published early in the Twentieth Century or even  earlier, when the amount of information available was much smaller and our  overall understanding of Egyptian culture far poorer.  In this book El  Mahdy goes back to basics, not blindly accepting the conclusions of other  Egyptologists (many of whom appear to somewhat blindly repeat what others  had written before them) but examining the original inscriptions for  herself.  Not infrequently they have previously been mistranslated or  particular interpretations placed upon them without good justification.  Inscriptions, art, tombs, and mummies are all re-examined with a rigorous  application of common sense and logic.  What emerges is a story strongly at  variance with popular understanding of the period.  El Mahdy rejects the  notion that Akhenaten's \\"new\\" religion was really something radically  different than the Egyptian mainstream, and she finds flaws in the notion  that the so-called \\"heretic king\\" was widely hated by the Egyptian people.  She also argues strongly and effectively against the idea that Smenkhare  and Tutankhamen were interlopers from outside of the 18th Dynasty royal  family (she supports the theory that Smenkhare was Nefertiti's identity  upon ascending to a co-regency with her husband and she contends that  Tutankhamen was Akhenaten's son by another wife).  I have read a good many  books about this era of Egyptian history, and I can think of no other which  has been so thought provoking.  Whether or not all of El Mahdy's  conclusions will stand the test of time is something we will have to wait  and see, but anyone who feels that they already \\"know\\" Akhenaten,  Nefertiti, and Tutankhamen would be well advised to read this book.o thought provoking.  Whether or not all of El Mahdy's  conclusions will stand the test of time is something we will have to wait  and see, but anyone who feels that they already \\"know\\" Akhenaten,  Nefertiti, and Tutankhamen would be well advised to read this book.	2000-08-04
US	53057371	R2CE7GC179KLAH	1557506213	815948916	Nelson's Battles: The Art of Victory in the Age of Sail	Books	5	18	18	N	N	A first-rate look at a first-rate admiral at war	&quot;Nelson's Battles&quot; is not a biography.  The subtitle really says it all; &quot;The Art of Victory in the Age of Sail&quot;.  About half the book is devoted to discussing the navies of the Napoleonic Era and the  technical aspects of combat and communications.  The rest of the book  examines Nelson's fleet battles: Cape St Vincent (where he was not in  command, but was principally responsible for the British victory), the  NIle, Copenhage, and of course Trafalgar.  The writing is clear and  interesting and the contemporary illustrations are excellent.	2000-07-04
US	53057371	R284YM6UGSK9GC	1557505454	576823331	Most Secret and Confidential: Intelligence in the Age of Nelson	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	A solid examination of naval intelligence 200 years ago	Steven E. Maffeo has served for over twenty years in the US naval reserve intelligence program and this book is an expansion of his thesis for a master's degree from the Joint Military Intelligence College.  &quot;Most  Secret and Confidential&quot; starts by surveying the intelligence  collection and distribution systems at the national and Admiralty levels,  then looking in greater detail at such topics as naval signals, the role of  frigates, deception, and the duties of a naval commander (ship's captain  and admiral), including being his own intelligence officer.  Finally, the  book focuses upon three particular case studies: the Battle of Oulo-Aur  where the East India Company fleet successful bluffed the French naval  squadron commanded by Linois (and used as the historical basis for part of  Patrick O'Brian's novel &quot;HMS Surprise&quot;), the Copenhagen  expedition of 1801, and the campaign ending in the Battle of the Nile.<br />A  good deal of attention is devoted to Nelson as an extremely effective  Intelligence Officer.  In the Nelson Era, fleet and ship commanders, aided  by minimal or no staff at all, basically acted as their own intelligence  officers, coordinating collection efforts and analyzing the information  themselves.  Maffeo repeatedly reminds us of the severe restrictions under  which these men operated, almost unimaginable in today's electronic world.  There were no radios, fax machines, computers, reconnaissance satellites,  patrol aircraft, etc., and information dissemination was no faster than a  courier vessel subject to uncertain winds.<br />This is not a book primarily  of derring-do tales of midnight landings of secret agents from boats with  muffled oars, although Maffeo does recount the exploits of such naval  officers as Lord Cochrane and his raids against enemy communications.  But  it is an unparalleled look at the secret world behind Royal Navy operations  during the Age of Sail.<br />A special bonus to fans of O'Brian, Forester,  Pope, and Kent: To provide illumination of various points discussed, Maffeo  frequently quotes from modern nautical fiction, showing how Jack Aubrey,  Horatio Hornblower, Nicholas Ramage, and Richard Bolitho were subject to  the very real restrictions upon and from naval intelligence.ester,  Pope, and Kent: To provide illumination of various points discussed, Maffeo  frequently quotes from modern nautical fiction, showing how Jack Aubrey,  Horatio Hornblower, Nicholas Ramage, and Richard Bolitho were subject to  the very real restrictions upon and from naval intelligence.	2000-07-04
US	53057371	R2ZW73HPTNMUNX	0811711110	32241469	Naval Chronicle: The Contemporary Record of the Royal Navy at War (The Naval Chronicle) (Volume 5)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The real story behind modern nautical fiction	Fans of such modern nautical fiction series such as those by Patrick O'Brian, C.S. Forester, Alexander Kent, and Dudley Pope can find within the pages of this volume (and its four predecessors) the contemporary records  of the men and events later fictionalized by O'Brian and others.  It is all  history in the raw, written by the participants at the time of the events  described.  And when you've read the pages of the Naval Chronicle, you will  realilze that the fictional exploits of Jack Aubrey, Horatio Hornblower,  and Richard Bolitho are not fantastic at all, simply reflections of what  the real Royal Navy did two centuries ago.	2000-07-04
US	53057371	R1U8B1SAHQG0WI	0553580957	426372767	Known Dead: A Novel (Carl Houseman)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A police procedural which remembers its humanity	&quot;Known Dead&quot; is an engrossing police procedural novel with a narrator who is very believably a real human being (which not only reflects Harstad's talent as a writer but his own long exerience in the type of  police organization featured in his novels).  The characters, both main  stage and supporting, are clearly delineated and memorable.  Perhaps  Harstad lets a little bit of Bruce Willis-Hollywood creep into the final  confrontation scene, but overall a down-to-earth reality permeates the  pages of &quot;Known Dead&quot;.  I look forward to his next novel.	2000-07-04
US	53057371	R7MH1YON26REJ	1862047359	245831897	The Keys to Avalon: The True Location of Arthur's Kingdom Revealed	Books	3	19	21	N	N	An intriguing, but flawed look at the historical Arthur	Most popular books in search of the historical Arthur (and there are many such books and just about as many theories regarding who the &quot;real&quot; Arthur was) use the same classic sources (Gildas, Nennius,  Geoffrey of Monmouth, and a few others) and, increasingly, archaeological  data.  Welsh literary sources, such as the &quot;Brut Y Brenhinedd,&quot;  the Triads, and bardic poetry, are generally relegated to the background  and are often wholly ignored, despite the rather obvious fact the Welsh  people are the primary cultural heirs of whatever society in which the  historical Arthur existed.  Blake and Lloyd reverse this approach in  &quot;The Keys to Avalon,&quot; giving their main focus to such Welsh  literary sources.  Their approach certainly is not without controversy.  They follow the lead of a few earlier writers who contend that at least  some versions of the &quot;Brut Y Brenhinedd&quot; derive independently  from the same source used by Geoffrey of Monmouth to write his great  &quot;Historia Regum Britanniae&quot; and are not, as most scholars  contend, simply Welsh translations of Geoffrey's work.  The difference is  crucial since the &quot;Brut&quot; uses Welsh names for locations which  differ greatly from the English names in Geoffrey's book.  Blake and Lloyd  contend that Geoffrey altered the Welsh originals to make his book better  suited for an English audience and for political purposes.  This is an  important point and, if true, could mean that the historical Arthur  operated on a smaller stage (North Wales, for the most part) than most  popular accounts which have him ranging over large portions of present-day  England and Scotland.  I certainly am not qualified to absolutely judge the  validity of what Blake and Lloyd have to say on the matter, but I do hope  their book inspires others to take a serious look at this possibility,  either to confirm their analysis or to disprove it.<br />I have little doubt  that Blake and Lloyd in their enthusiam for their Welsh-oriented  reconstruction of Arthurian fact have at least in a couple areas gone well  beyond what the evidence can support.  Specifically, I find their claim  that Offa's Dyke (a mammoth earthwork almost universally credited to the  Eighth Century Mercian King Offa) was built by the Third Century Roman  Emperor Severius to be entirely unconvincing.  (There is now archaeological  evidence that Wat's Dyke may date from the Fifth Century and thus might  explain accounts of a wall in northern Wales prior to Offa.)  And secondly,  I consider their re-writing of the history of the Anglo-Saxon conquest of  much of Britain (moving events from their traditional locations to an  exclusively Welsh context) to be very unlikely, as it seems to ignore  non-Welsh and archaeological sources that bear upon the  question.<br />Nonetheless, I think that &quot;The Keys to Avalon&quot; is  worth reading, even if with a sceptical eye, for its intriguing analysis of  the North Wales sites associated with a possible historical Arthur.enthusiam for their Welsh-oriented  reconstruction of Arthurian fact have at least in a couple areas gone well  beyond what the evidence can support.  Specifically, I find their claim  that Offa's Dyke (a mammoth earthwork almost universally credited to the  Eighth Century Mercian King Offa) was built by the Third Century Roman  Emperor Severius to be entirely unconvincing.  (There is now archaeological  evidence that Wat's Dyke may date from the Fifth Century and thus might  explain accounts of a wall in northern Wales prior to Offa.)  And secondly,  I consider their re-writing of the history of the Anglo-Saxon conquest of  much of Britain (moving events from their traditional locations to an  exclusively Welsh context) to be very unlikely, as it seems to ignore  non-Welsh and archaeological sources that bear upon the  question.<br />Nonetheless, I think that &quot;The Keys to Avalon&quot; is  worth reading, even if with a sceptical eye, for its intriguing analysis of  the North Wales sites associated with a possible historical Arthur.	2000-06-25
US	53057371	R1VFUEZC9JOCU0	0874519098	251347185	Reflections in Bullough’s Pond: Economy and Ecosystem in New England (Revisiting New England)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	A book to change the way you view the world	Diana Muir's \\"Reflections in Bullough's Pond:  Economy and Ecosystem in New England\\" is an absorbing, thought-provoking look at the interrelationship between environment and inhabitant.  Refreshingly, this  is not a book which aims to point fingers at who has ruined a pristine  natural world.  As Muir states in the Introduction, her book \\"is no  jeremiad, it is a paean to the human ability to overcome daunting odds.  Over and over again people in this small corner of the planet have faced  disaster in the forms of economic collapse or resource dearth and overcome  the odds.\\"  This is not to say that the author is oblivious to the damage  done to New England's environment and the threat to the region's well-being  posed by that damage.  But while discussing the woeful state of some  aspects of today's natural world, she also makes clear that it is within  our power to take effective measures to, if not restore New England's  ecology to some mythical perfection, then at least alter our behavior to  avert future calamity.  That is, after all as Diana Muir shows, what people  in New England have done time and time again.<br /> \\"Reflections in Bullough's  Pond\\" describes in elegant prose how activities over the centuries by New  England's inhabitants (Yankee industrialists, European colonial farmers,  Indian farmers and hunters, and even beavers) have affected the region's  ecology and, equally important, how New England's changing ecosystems have  impacted the inhabitants, especially in how they, as Ms. Muir is fond of  saying, make a living.  It is a fascinating tale, starting at the close of  the last ice age and continuing to the present day.  If anyone has the  quaint notion that Native Americans lived in a primeval Eden without  leaving a trace upon the natural world, Muir very soon demonstrates that  New England's ecosystems were being altered by its people before any  European ship crossed the Atlantic.  She paints a portrait of a dynamic  world, always changing in response to its inhabitants, while creating new  crises and new opportunities for its population.<br />Diana Muir has not  written a dry academic tome which maintains an Olympian distance from its  subject.  Rather, its pages are filled with engaging accounts of indviduals  who pioneered new paths of economic development and with intimate pictures  of local scenes which illuminate our understanding of the larger world.  Classic white-painted mansions in a Connecticut coastal village, sand  washing from ice-coated Massachusetts highways into a pond outside Muir's  own windows, a moose on the loose in Boston - these are among the vivid  details which act as brushstrokes on the larger canvas.  And Diana Muir  does not shrink from supplying a few hard numbers and graphs where they aid  in setting out the story she wishes to tell.<br />Books which alter the way  you view the world about you are rare.  \\"Reflections in Bullough's Pond\\" is  one of them.in response to its inhabitants, while creating new  crises and new opportunities for its population.  <br />Diana Muir has not  written a dry academic tome which maintains an Olympian distance from its  subject.  Rather, its pages are filled with engaging accounts of indviduals  who pioneered new paths of economic development and with intimate pictures  of local scenes which illuminate our understanding of the larger world.   Classic white-painted mansions in a Connecticut coastal village, sand  washing from ice-coated Massachusetts highways into a pond outside Muir's  own windows, a moose on the loose in Boston - these are among the vivid  details which act as brushstrokes on the larger canvas.  And Diana Muir  does not shrink from supplying a few hard numbers and graphs where they aid  in setting out the story she wishes to tell.<br />Books which alter the way  you view the world about you are rare.  \\"Reflections in Bullough's Pond\\" is  one of them.	2000-06-22
US	53057371	R3M97DW16I62U9	0679455175	344485885	Not War but Murder: Cold Harbor 1864	Books	4	26	29	N	N	Solid narrative about a famous, but little studied battle	Cold Harbor is a name familiar to everyone interested in the American Civil War.  It has come to symbolize the terrible nature of warfare that had began with dreams of glory and had been transformed into the horrible  futility of attacks against entrenchments.  Strangely, however, the Cold  Harbor itself has attracted little study in comparison with such early  battles as Antietam, Chancellorsville, and Gettysburg.  To my knowledge  Ernest Furguson's \\"Not War but Murder: Cold Harbor 1864\\" is only the second  book-length narrative of the battle ever to have been published.  Furguson  carefully examines the events from all viewpoints: Union and Confederate,  commanding generals and foot soldiers.  He has crafted an absorbing story  which, although focusing on the grand, doomed assault of June 3, does full  justice to the events before and after while the Army of the Potomac and  the Army of Northern Virginia confronted one another near the Confederate  capitol of Richmond.<br />Furguson lays the blame for the lop-sided defeat,  accurately I believe, at the feet of US Grant, overall commander of the  Union troops, and of George Meade, his principal subordinate in actual  command of the Army of the Potomac.  Grant failed badly in his  understanding of the state of morale and combat strength not only of his  foes, but also of his own depleted army.  And Meade, it seems, allowed the  battle to proceed without control or coordination due to a fit of pique  engendered by his treatment in the press.  Grant also deservedly receives  strong criticism for the way he handled truce negotiations which would have  allowed rescue of wounded soldiers trapped between lines after the failed  attack, although here Lee too wins no marks for compassion.<br />I have only  one real criticism of Furguson's account of Cold Harbor (and it is a fairly  small criticism): I believe that Furguson overstates the significance of  what happened at Cold Harbor, particularly the famous disastrous assault of  June 3 which resulted in perhaps 7000 Union casualties against probably  fewer than 1500 Confederates.  He blames the subsequent failure of the  Union army to capture Petersburg upon a \\"Cold Harbor syndrome\\" reluctance  to attack fortifications and depicts the June 3 attack as destroying the  battlefield power and morale of his army.  In fact, Cold Harbor and the  doomed attack was really only the culminating act in the devastating  Overland Campaign which had already taken the Army of the Potomac (and the  Army of Northern Virginia) through the Wilderness and Spotsylvania battles.  The Union losses during the June 3 assault were only a small fraction of  the total casualties during the campaign and the Army of the Potomac by the  time of Cold Harbor was already exhibiting fatigue and loss of morale and  by then had learned caution in attacking entrenchments.  Whether or not the  June 3 attack was made, it seems that the speedy capture of Petersburg may  have already been beyond Grant's grasp.<br />This small criticism aside, I  would strongly recommend \\"Not War but Murder\\" to anyone interested in the  grim realities of combat during the closing year of the American Civil War.  It is a vivid study of a battle more famous than understood.lt of  June 3 which resulted in perhaps 7000 Union casualties against probably  fewer than 1500 Confederates.  He blames the subsequent failure of the  Union army to capture Petersburg upon a \\"Cold Harbor syndrome\\" reluctance  to attack fortifications and depicts the June 3 attack as destroying the  battlefield power and morale of his army.  In fact, Cold Harbor and the  doomed attack was really only the culminating act in the devastating  Overland Campaign which had already taken the Army of the Potomac (and the  Army of Northern Virginia) through the Wilderness and Spotsylvania battles.   The Union losses during the June 3 assault were only a small fraction of  the total casualties during the campaign and the Army of the Potomac by the  time of Cold Harbor was already exhibiting fatigue and loss of morale and  by then had learned caution in attacking entrenchments.  Whether or not the  June 3 attack was made, it seems that the speedy capture of Petersburg may  have already been beyond Grant's grasp.<br />This small criticism aside, I  would strongly recommend \\"Not War but Murder\\" to anyone interested in the  grim realities of combat during the closing year of the American Civil War.   It is a vivid study of a battle more famous than understood.	2000-06-10
US	53057371	R23EEUTVSXTQVU	0345412966	175745973	The Ringworld Throne	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An interesting return visit to a fascinating world	Reviewing a book, especially a novel, is a supremely subjective undertaking - and reading the reviews of Larry Niven's \\"Ringworld Throne\\" posted here is proof of that.  Personally, although I would certainly not  rate it as equal to the original \\"Ringworld\\" or even the first sequel, I  enjoyed the book and kept reading intently right through the end.  I have  been reading Niven's \\"Known Space\\" tales for more than thirty years.  He  specializes in extrapolating entire new worlds and societies from some  particular technological innovation or physical attribute.  Undoubtedly his  most outstanding creation has been the artificial world chronicled in  \\"Ringworld,\\" \\"Ringworld Engineers,\\" and most recently \\"Ringworld Throne.\\"  I would hesitate reading this last volume without being very familiar with  the preceding two and, for that matter, other books and short stories set  in the \\"Known Space\\" universe.  Without knowing the background of  puppeteers and kzins and protectors, a new reader would not catch many plot  intricacies.  But with such a familiarity the stories, \\"Ringworld Throne\\"  is an intriguing extension of what has gone before, adding new pieces of  information and changing a few assumptions.  For my own part, I look  forward to the day when Niven writes the next installment in the Ringworld  saga and the adventures of Louis Wu.	2000-06-03
US	53057371	R29K5DUJUJOV50	0935523596	599657320	Hancock at Gettysburg...and Beyond (Army of the Potomac Series, V. 18)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Useful study of one general at Gettysburg	Don't expect &quot;Hancock at Gettysburg&quot; to provide a comprehensive narrative of the battle. That was not Gambone's purpose.  Instead, he set out to portray one particular general's part in that crucial fight:  Winfield Scott Hancock, &quot;Hancock the Superb&quot;.  I wouldn't  recommend the book to someone without a good understanding of the battle  beforehand, but it does provide solid information to anyone wishing to  learn more about how the Union high command functioned during the three  days of combat.  In particular, two controversial episodes are highlighted:  Hancock being assigned to take charge over officers more senior than  himself, and Hancock's disagreement about how the artillery should be  employed during the great bombardment preceding the so-called Pickett's  Charge.  In workmanlike prose and with excerpts from firsthand accounts,  Gambone presents the story of his hero.  Occasionally, his choice of  material is a little peculiar (why does he quote Rutherford B. Hayes, a man  who was not at Gettysburg, about Hancock's dramatic ride before his troops  during the bombardment?) but for the most part a good range of opinions is  presented.<br />This is a worthwhile addition to the ever-growing bookshelf of  Gettysburg studies.	2000-05-22
US	53057371	R295W4BKQHNLGA	0807823929	208516669	Lee's Miserables: Life in the Army of Northern Virginia from the Wilderness to Appomattox	Books	5	18	19	N	N	An intimate look at the decline and fall of Lee's army	By ancestry and upbringing I am a Connecticut Yankee and, while for many years I have been a keen student of the American Civil War, my interests and sympathies are definitely pointed towards the Union (my relatives wore  the blue).  Thus, it is comparatively rare for me to enthusiastically read  a book which is about a distinctly Confederate subject.  I happily made an  exception for J. Tracy Power's &quot;Lee's Miserables&quot;.  As it  happens, a special focus of mine has long been on the Virginia campaigns of  1864-65, perhaps due to the early influence of Bruce Catton's wonderful  &quot;A Stillness at Appomattox&quot;.  Mr. Power describes his book as a  &quot;hybrid of social and military history&quot; and that is indeed an apt  desciption.  Although the reader can follow the course of the campaigns  well enough through Power's narrative, the primary focus of the book is  firmly upon how the men and officers of the Army of Northern Virginia  perceived their situation and viewed the future, as told in their letters,  journals, and other first-hand accounts.  Although some soldiers in Lee's  army remained confident to very end that they would ultimately achieve  victory, &quot;Lee's Miserables&quot; chronicles a broad decline in morale  over the winter of 1864-65.  An army which could still defend its ground in  September and October had become vulnerable by March and April.<br />I  strongly recommend this book for anyone interested in Civil War realities  and who are ready to reject the hagiographic myths which have far too often  dominated books about the Army of Northern Virginia.  And I hope that  someday there will be a comparable social/military history published about  the Army of the Potomac during these same campaigns.	2000-05-21
US	53057371	R3OXYBHDV5DJDZ	0807125350	742161616	To the North Anna River: Grant and Lee, May 13--25, 1864	Books	5	42	43	N	Y	Solid military history of a little-studied campaign	Gordon Rhea's \\"To the North Anna River: Grant and Lee, May 13-25, 1864\\" is his latest installment in his on-going series of military histories about the great Overland Campaign, following his earlier volumes on the  Wilderness and Spotsylvania battles.  \\"To the North Anna River\\" differs  from the previous two books in that the focus here is not upon full-scale  fighting between massed armies, but instead examines an extended interval  of maneuvers and probes which always fell short of the assaults planned.  Mistakes and misperceptions by both armies abounded, balanced by  unfaltering determination and moments of genuine brilliance.  This period  has in the past attracted relatively little attention from military  historians, probably due in large part to its lack of \\"big battle\\" drama.  Yet, the story told by Rhea is one full of suspense and tension, as Grant  vigorously sought a weak point where he could finally overwhelm his foe,  while Lee scrambled to block each move.  Ultimately, it is a story with  neither clear-cut winner or loser.  Certainly Lee managed to preserve his  army, yet the North Anna portion of the Overland Campaign ended with an  undeterred Grant sending his army even deeper into Virginia to ultimately  pin the Army of Northern Virginia in place, defending Richmond and slowly  bleeding to death.<br />Rhea's concentration is upon Grant and Lee and their  chief deputies, the corps commanders, and he provides incisive analyses of  the leaders for each step of the campaign.  He thoroughly demolishes the  tired old myth that Lee foresaw each of Grant's moves, but bestows strong  acclaim upon the Confederate commanding general for his ability to find a  way out of every scrape.  Grant receives high marks from Rhea for his  unwavering resolve in carrying out his strategic aims, but is sharply  faulted for repeated failure in tactical preparation.  Both Lee and Grant,  Rhea amply demonstrates, were guilty of errors and oversights.  In the end,  the two generals seem to have been unusually well matched.  Corps  commanders on both sides receive little praise, with only Hancock in the  Army of the Potomac evidencing sufficient judgment and initiative to be  trusted off a short leash.<br />Although each maneuver and clash is described  in sufficient detail to understand what happened, \\"To the North Anna River\\"  is not primarily concerned with recounting the experiences of individual  soldiers.  Edwin Coddington's classic study of Gettysburg was subtitled \\"A  Study in Command\\" and that is a label which could be appropriately applied  to Rhea's books.  The question of \\"why\\" (or \\"why not\\") is always central,  not just \\"what\\" and \\"how\\".<br />\\"To the North Anna River\\" is a strong  continuation of an admirable work in progress and I already look forward to  the next volume in the series which should bring the armies of Grant and  Lee to the fields of Cold Harbor.wo generals seem to have been unusually well matched.  Corps  commanders on both sides receive little praise, with only Hancock in the  Army of the Potomac evidencing sufficient judgment and initiative to be  trusted off a short leash.<br />Although each maneuver and clash is described  in sufficient detail to understand what happened, \\"To the North Anna River\\"  is not primarily concerned with recounting the experiences of individual  soldiers.  Edwin Coddington's classic study of Gettysburg was subtitled \\"A  Study in Command\\" and that is a label which could be appropriately applied  to Rhea's books.  The question of \\"why\\" (or \\"why not\\") is always central,  not just \\"what\\" and \\"how\\".<br />\\"To the North Anna River\\" is a strong  continuation of an admirable work in progress and I already look forward to  the next volume in the series which should bring the armies of Grant and  Lee to the fields of Cold Harbor.	2000-05-18
US	53057371	R1V9MJQ7T5BUNQ	0553106074	56364194	The Answer Man	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A little paranoia in this book is a good thing	I suppose that a cool, rational look at the plot &quot;The Answer Man&quot; would show that it all very, very unlikely  -- but who reads suspense thrillers for cool, rational analysis?  This is definitely a book  that keeps you turning the pages and which provides plenty of surprises.  Almost nobody does what you expect him or her to do, and a lesson quickly  learned is to trust no one.  In fact, any character in this book must live  by the rule that a little paranoia is a good thing, and a lot of paranoia  is even better.	2000-05-17
US	53057371	RHAR5APY8T2XJ	0415195756	787636741	King Arthur: The Truth Behind the Legend	Books	4	20	20	N	N	A modern overview of the search for Arthurian &quot;fact&quot;	Let me state up front that, yes, as another Amazon reviewer noted, Rodney Castleden did indeed mess up by confusing a passage from Nennius' 9th Century Historia Brittonum with the material in Constantius'5th Century  Life of Germanus.  I suspect the error lay in how Castleden assembled his  notes, getting something in the wrong file, and it is disconcerting that  the mistake was not picked up during the editing process.  And I think that  this error does highlight the fact that Castleden is something of an  outsider in Arthurian matters, not a professional in the area like Ashe or  Alcock or an amateur enthusiast such as those who reguarly churn out the  latest &quot;final answer&quot; to the old mysteries.  Rather, he is a  writer on archaeological subjects asked by his publisher to write a book on  this always intriguing subject.  As such, he brings a fresh, albeit  imperfect, eye to familiar ground, along with a certain degree of  expertise.<br />Perhaps the most solid portions of &quot;King Arthur: The  Truth behind the Legend&quot; are those where he is reviewing various books  and theories on the subject, including quite a few from the last couple  decades which produced &quot;final answers&quot; (none of them agreeing  with one another, of course).  At the same time, Castleden does present a  good summary of the evidence (even if he does get that Nennius passage in  the wrong place) and an even better tour of some of the major sites  associated with Arthur.<br />Of course, Castleden has his own version of a  &quot;final answer&quot;.  His Dumnonian Arthur, perhaps based in  Killisbury/Kelliwic and Tintagel, falls in line with the theories of some  who have come before him and is reasonably persuasive (always assuming, of  course, that you start with the premise that there was a real Arthur), if  not ironclad.  His extension of Arthur's story beyond this, however, (that  Arthur survived the Battle of Camlann and found refuge of a sort in a  Galloway monastery seems to me to be something of a reach, more speculation  than deduction.<br />I would recommend the book to persons strongly interested  in the historical facts behind Arthur, not as a &quot;final answer&quot;  but as a worthy enough attempt to supply at least some of the truth.seems to me to be something of a reach, more speculation  than deduction.<br />I would recommend the book to persons strongly interested  in the historical facts behind Arthur, not as a &quot;final answer&quot;  but as a worthy enough attempt to supply at least some of the truth.	2000-05-15
US	53057371	R16POTJFY5PMLB	0060193670	419086161	Without Reservation: The Making of America's Most Powerful Indian Tribe and Foxwoods the World's Largest Casino	Books	5	41	42	N	N	A provoking look at the world's biggest casino	\\"Without Reservation: The Making of America's Most Powerful Indian Tribe and Foxwoods, the World's Largest Casino\\" by Jeff Benedict is an absorbing portrait of an extraordinary phenomenon - the emergence from obscurity  within the past three decades of the Mashantucket Pequot Indian tribe and  their rapid climb to unparalleled wealth through their Foxwoods Casino in  Ledyard, Connecticut.  I am sure that many people view these events as a  particularly gratifying example of a \\"rags to riches\\" story, given the  justifiable sympathy now widely felt towards Native Americans after  centuries of betrayal and injustice.  However, as someone who has spent  most of his adult life as a resident of southeastern Connecticut and who is  personally acquainted with some of the people discussed in Benedict's book,  I have been long aware that the story of the Pequots and their casino is  more complex and perhaps less inspirational than might appear at first  glance.<br />\\"Without Reservation\\" raises serious questions about whether the  Mashantucket Pequots are who they claim to be, a legitimate tribe of Native  Americans.  Simply put, are they instead merely opportunists claiming an  Indian identity to fraudulently cash in on laws and programs intended to  help genuine Native Americans?  Some historic tribes in the East after  centuries of intermarriage with persons of European and/or African descent  and through acculturation with the white society have ceased to exist.  According to Benedict's research, Richard \\"Skip\\" Hayward, the leader who  formulated and led the supposed resurrection of the Mashantucket Pequot  tribe in the 1970's, has no traceable Pequot ancestry at all.  Benedict  contends that Hayward's entire Indian descent comes solely through his  great-great-grandfather, a man who identified himself not as a Pequot, but  as a Narragansett (ironically, the Narragansetts were one of the tribes who  allied themselves with the English during the 17th Century war which  destroyed the power of the original Pequot tribe). Records indicate that  Hayward had consistently identified himself as being \\"white\\" until the  mid-1970's when it suddenly became advantageous to claim he was a Native  American to gain possession of the small \\"Western Pequot\\" reservation  maintained by the State of Connecticut and to pursue a legal claim against  neighboring properties.  Benedict further asserts that the Mashantucket  Pequot tribe, when granted Federal recognition by a special Act of Congress  in 19XX, would have been wholly unable to meet the Bureau of Indian Affairs  requirements for such Federal recognition.  In his view, many people,  sincere in their desire to help Native Americans obtain financial and  cultural security, were deceived into supporting a fraudulent cause and  unintentionally allowed a small group of imposters  to gain extraordinary  power by operating a gambling casino shielded from taxation and state  regulation.  The enormous quantity of dollars flowing through Foxwoods  Casino has radically altered the economic structure of the region, for good  or ill, and has given the Mashantuckets enormous clout through their  frequent and heavy contributions to political parties and elected  officials.<br />Hayward as presented in Benedict's book is a fascinating  paradox.  Is he a charismatic visionary who followed his dream to  skillfully lead his people into wealth and independence, or is he a  deceptive manipulator who lied and cheated nearly everyone en route to  personal riches and influence?  The answer supplied by Benedict's book  seems to be that Hayward is both.  \\"Without Reservation\\" does not stop with  Skip Hayward's climb to wealth and power, but continues on through his  subsequent fall from tribal leadership, overthrown by other Mashantuckets  whose claim of Pequot identity is as suspect as that of Hayward himself.  The picture which Benedict paints is one of naked greed and arrogance  rising to the top.<br />I am certain that some people will dismiss Benedict's  book as being \\"anti-Indian\\", but that is not the case.  His contention is  that the Mashantucket Pequots are simply not an Indian tribe in any genuine  sense of the term, and that they have taken advantage of and have perverted  situations created for the benefit of actual Native American peoples.  I am  equally certain that his claims will be vigorously denounced by the  Mashantuckets, and I eagerly look forward to seeing what evidence, if any,  can be produced to counter Benedict's arguments.<br />Jeff Benedict has  written a book which tells a compelling story, although undoubtedly it will  not be the final word on the subject.  It is a story skillfully told in a  gripping narrative which vividly depicts the actors in the drama: the  Mashantuckets, the politicians, the ordinary citizens who woke up to find  the world's largest casino springing to life in their rural community, and  of course the ever-present lawyers, eager to distort and shade the truth in  their roles of advocates (or in their chase of the big bucks).n that some people will dismiss Benedict's  book as being \\"anti-Indian\\", but that is not the case.  His contention is  that the Mashantucket Pequots are simply not an Indian tribe in any genuine  sense of the term, and that they have taken advantage of and have perverted  situations created for the benefit of actual Native American peoples.  I am  equally certain that his claims will be vigorously denounced by the  Mashantuckets, and I eagerly look forward to seeing what evidence, if any,  can be produced to counter Benedict's arguments. <br />Jeff Benedict has  written a book which tells a compelling story, although undoubtedly it will  not be the final word on the subject.  It is a story skillfully told in a  gripping narrative which vividly depicts the actors in the drama: the  Mashantuckets, the politicians, the ordinary citizens who woke up to find  the world's largest casino springing to life in their rural community, and  of course the ever-present lawyers, eager to distort and shade the truth in  their roles of advocates (or in their chase of the big bucks).	2000-05-06
US	53057371	R2KCJX8F3US650	080613156X	723710194	To Hell With Honor: Custer and the Little Bighorn	Books	4	52	57	N	Y	A bold narrative about a controversial battle	Larry Sklenar's \\"To Hell with Honor: Custer and the Little Bighorn\\" is a boldly presented picture of the most famous battle of America's Indian Wars.  As might be expected after more than 35 years of study of the  subject myself, I have more than a few ideas about the battle.  I concur  with much of what Sklenar writes, but disagree with other parts.  He has  come up with some definitely new twists on the old story, and for this  reason his book should be read by anyone seriously interested in the Little  Bighorn.<br />Sklenar's basic stance can be characterized as strongly  pro-Custer, and he sharply criticizes Custer's two principal subordinates,  Major Marcus Reno and Captain Frederick Benteen.  And I personally won't  disagree with that view.  His analyses of Reno's and Benteen's actions (or  inactions) are arguably the strongest portions of the entire book.<br />Sklenar has reached some quite startling conclusions regarding Custer's  initial battle plan and the position occupied by the rest of the regiment  during their abortive effort to locate Custer late in the day.  Frankly, I  do not think that the primary evidence supports Sklenar's deductions about  these points, but I would encourage Little Bighorn students to read what he  has to say, then evaluate the questions for themselves.  His reconstruction  of the fight by Custer's battalion, on the other hand, does not break much  new ground, and is in good agreement with a number of books in recent  years.<br />All in all, it is a Little Bighorn analysis worth adding to the  bookshelf, but I would urge the reader to go beyond the book to read the  actual evidence before deciding whether all of Sklenar's conclusions are  valid.  People have been writing about this battle for nearly 125 years,  and no one ever has the last word.	2000-05-06
US	53057371	R2EZKMO7JYKGX7	0806132051	218744215	Uss Pampanito: Killer-Angel	Books	5	63	64	N	Y	An excellent look at &quot;ordinary&quot; submariners at war	There have been many books written about individual US Navy submarines during World War Two in the Pacific, but almost invariably they are written from the viewpoint of the commander or executive officer.  \\"USS Pampanito:  Killer-Angel\\" is different.  This is a book which, for the most part, tells  the story of a submarine at war through the eyes of her crew, the men who  kept her engines running, who scanned the skies for enemy aircraft when  surfaced, who strained to load the torpedoes into her tubes during convoy  attacks.<br />Sparked by the stories told by his late father, a crewman aboard  the Pamapanito during her first two combat patrols, Greg Michno collected  the tales of fifty of the men who served aboard her from her launch in 1943  till the end of the war.  Together with extensive research into official  records, Michno has woven these firsthand accounts into an absorbing  portrait of ordinary men at war.  His recounting of a harrowing depth  charge attack with the Pampanito at a depth of over 600 feet could have  come right out of \\"Das Boot\\".  But the story is more than just combat.  Day-to-day shipboard life in insanely cramped quarters, jury-rigged repairs  upon vital malfunctioning equipment, wild R&amp;R escapades ashore which  could cause as many casualties as a battle at sea, conflicts and  comradeship among the men and officers ... it is all here in this book.<br />The  Pampanito appeared on no one's list of \\"top\\" submarines as measured by  merchant tonnage sunk or major warships sent to the bottom.  All too often  her successes were more than balanced by bad luck or, perhaps, less than  stellar leadership.  But on one remarkable occasion, the boat rescued 73  Australian and British POW's whose ships had been sunk during an attack on  a Japanese convoy.  The story of this rescue and the subsequent close bond  formed between these former prisoners, many of whom had worked on the  notorious \\"River Kwai\\" railroad construction, and their saviors creates an  emotional high point of the book.  Many of the Pampanito's crew felt that  saving those men was more important than the sinking of any ship.<br />As it  happens, the Pampanito is still afloat today.  Spared the scrapyard, the  fate of most of her contemporaries, the Pampanito has been declared a  National Historical Landmark and is docked at Fisherman's Wharf in San  Francisco for visitors to board.<br />The book is well illustrated with maps  of the combat operations plus numerous photographs of crewmembers, both as  impossibly young men during their war and as elderly veterans visiting  their boat during a recent crew reunion.<br />\\"USS Pampanito: Killer-Angel\\" is  an excellent look at ordinary men on an ordinary submarine during an  extraordinary time.eates an  emotional high point of the book.  Many of the Pampanito's crew felt that  saving those men was more important than the sinking of any ship.<br />As it  happens, the Pampanito is still afloat today.  Spared the scrapyard, the  fate of most of her contemporaries, the Pampanito has been declared a  National Historical Landmark and is docked at Fisherman's Wharf in San  Francisco for visitors to board.<br />The book is well illustrated with maps  of the combat operations plus numerous photographs of crewmembers, both as  impossibly young men during their war and as elderly veterans visiting  their boat during a recent crew reunion.<br />\\"USS Pampanito: Killer-Angel\\" is  an excellent look at ordinary men on an ordinary submarine during an  extraordinary time.	2000-04-25
US	53057371	R15GC7BYA7CKMG	0892965886	539266918	The Hook	Books	5	9	12	N	N	The Hook does The Ax one better	As much as I have enjoyed various Donald Westlake novels over the year, I was unprepared three years ago for his superb &quot;The Ax&quot;.  That book combined an absorbing psychological study of a man with a  thought-provoking look at one of contemporary society's genuine problems:  marginalizing some of our most productive people by &quot;downsizing&quot;  them during corporate mergers.  And I wondered how Westlake would follow  the success of that book.  Frankly, I thought he would probably return to  the genial comic crime novel.  And when I started reading &quot;The  Hook&quot; that is indeed what I thought he had done.  And then ... a  descent into a psychological inferno, making for even more compelling  reading than &quot;The Ax&quot;.  I bought the book yesterday, started  reading it after supper, and I could not let myself go to bed until I had  finished it!  Many authors seem to slide off into mediocrity after years or  even decades of writing, but not Donald Westlake.  He just keeps getting  better.	2000-03-15
US	53057371	RZKF3ZCCT23K7	0805059768	665867607	Patrick O'Brian :  A Life Revealed	Books	4	46	46	N	Y	A partial revelation of a secret man	Dean King's &quot;Patrick O'Brian: A Life Revealed&quot; cannot wholly live up to its subtitle because its subject, the author of some of the best fiction of the 20th Century, withheld any cooperation and evidently  instructed his friends to do likewise.  King had to construct his biography  using none-too-plentiful public sources and the views of estranged  relatives, some quite embittered.  Fortunately, King avoids becoming merely  the advocate of those hostile to Patrick O'Brian, generally maintaining a  conspicuous neutrality about the rights and wrongs of the author's personal  life, and instead devotes much of the book to a survey of O'Brian's work,  examining sources, the struggles to publish, critical reaction, and -- in  some cases -- the relationship of particular incidents in the fiction to  O'Brian's own life.  O'Brian, it is now known, constructed a wholly  fictional persona for himself (including his name and nationality) after  breaking with his family over 50 years ago.  Under those circumstances, and  perhaps because of the pain of his own memories, it is not surprising that  O'Brian made privacy a fetish.  Still, Dean King has been able to assemble  a reasonably detailed literary biography.  I doubt that someone who is not  familiar with O'Brian's marvelous novels would find a great deal of  interest in this book, but for fans of his fiction, this biography provides  hints and insights into the wellspring of his tales.	2000-03-02
US	53057371	RW93D6P3913S9	0374111197	481105340	Beowulf: A New Verse Translation	Books	5	600	623	N	Y	A classic translation by a master poet	&quot;Beowulf&quot; is justly regarded as a cornerstone of English literature, but those of us who do not read Anglo-Saxon must approach it through a translation.  Certainly there is no shortage of translations; I have at least a dozen sitting on my bookshelf. However, I would eliminate half of them as adequate vehicles for really appreciating this grand poem because they are prose versions. While they may accurately convey the literal sense of the Old English words and provide a readily understood storyline, prose can never adequately render the poetic essence of the original.<br />Verse translation, however, is of necessity an imprecise art; poetry is too tightly bound to the language of its creator for a valid direct transposition to another tongue.  Anglo-Saxon verse relied upon strong alliteration and a balance of stressed syllables rather than the use of rhyme and formally patterned meter as in later English poetry.  The contemporary translator has a formidable and delicate challenge to transform &quot;Beowulf&quot; into a poem suited for today while remaining loyal to its ancient timbre.  Although I greatly admire Ruth P.M. Lehmann's 1988 translation for its steadfast replication of the tone and cadence of the Old English original, there is truth in what another &quot;Alliteration is a key element in Old English metrics ... but long stretches of it in Modern English will stupefy the most ardent reader&quot;.  At times the beat and alliteration of Lehmann's verse threatens to overwhelm the present-day listener, becoming a deadening drumbeat.  Yet, if the translator strays too far from the Anglo-Saxon structure in attempting to create something palatable for present taste, then the result inevitably lacks the bardic flavor at the heart of the poem.<br />Achieving a fitting balance between the vibrant aural core of the original and the requirements of a contemporary reader is a matter of subtle artistry.  It may be that Seamus Heaney is an ideal poet to meet that challenge in this era.  He has produced here a work which, in its four-beat line and tempered alliteration, keeps faith with its source, yet avoids excessive archaisms which would alienate a Y2K ear.  Still, Heaney allows the voice of the past to emerge here and there to keep us fixed in time, resulting in a blend of contemporary language seasoned with ancient echoes. Beowulf the warrior, virtually a caricature of exaggerated, implausible heroism in some translations, is rescued in this new version to stand revealed as someone credibly human. Heaney's translation is eminently readable, but does not sacrifice the poem's true soul.<br />The Farrar, Straus and Giroux edition is a markedly handsome volume, a bilingual presentation with the Anglo-Saxon original and Heaney's translation on facing pages.  The US publication was delayed a few months, and I would not be surprised to learn that release was intentionally held until after announcement of the Whitbread Award in the UK.  Heaney's &quot;Beowulf&quot; beat the latest &quot;Harry Potter&quot; novel for that prestigious honor by a single vote, proving the adolescent wizard to be as formidable an opponent as a grim monster from a mere.<br />To anybody who has been promising him- or herself to get around to reading this classic poem &quot;one of these days&quot; but has been deterred by vague memories of awkward verse from &quot;Beowulf&quot; may finally be here.  Seamus Heaney's translation reads as smoothly as any prose, yet the poetry can always be heard, whispering in your ear.t challenge in this era.  He has produced here a work which, in its four-beat line and tempered alliteration, keeps faith with its source, yet avoids excessive archaisms which would alienate a Y2K ear.  Still, Heaney allows the voice of the past to emerge here and there to keep us fixed in time, resulting in a blend of contemporary language seasoned with ancient echoes. Beowulf the warrior, virtually a caricature of exaggerated, implausible heroism in some translations, is rescued in this new version to stand revealed as someone credibly human. Heaney's translation is eminently readable, but does not sacrifice the poem's true soul.<br />The Farrar, Straus and Giroux edition is a markedly handsome volume, a bilingual presentation with the Anglo-Saxon original and Heaney's translation on facing pages.  The US publication was delayed a few months, and I would not be surprised to learn that release was intentionally held until after announcement of the Whitbread Award in the UK.  Heaney's &quot;Beowulf&quot; beat the latest &quot;Harry Potter&quot; novel for that prestigious honor by a single vote, proving the adolescent wizard to be as formidable an opponent as a grim monster from a mere.<br />To anybody who has been promising him- or herself to get around to reading this classic poem &quot;one of these days&quot; but has been deterred by vague memories of awkward verse from &quot;Beowulf&quot; may finally be here.  Seamus Heaney's translation reads as smoothly as any prose, yet the poetry can always be heard, whispering in your ear.	2000-02-16
US	53057371	RWXWEW8UJEYOB	1580970257	377955546	The Little Bighorn Campaign: March-september 1876 (Great Campaigns)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An excellent introduction to the Little Big Horn	I would strongly recommend Wayne Sarf's book to anyone wishing to learn about the Battle of the Little Big Horn.  Although numerous titles have been published delving deep into narrow and murky corners of that famous  event, they are best approached by readers who already have a firm  grounding into the who's and what's of the battle, and this is the book  which provides that fundamental knowledge.  Wayne Sarf's conclusions about  controversial matters are both well-considered and reasonable.	2000-02-10
US	53057371	R3FL08Q57UQXI7	0811708640	143902121	Ill Companion to Nelson's Navy	Books	5	21	21	N	Y	Excellent Companion Book for Nautical Fiction	&quot;The Illustrated Companion to Nelson's Navy&quot; is a wonderful repository of information about ships, life at sea, and naval warfare during the era of Jack Aubrey, Richard Bolitho, and Horation Hornblower  (frequent mention of these and other fictional Royal Navy officers is made  in the book, placing them in the real life context).  The range of material  covered is very broad, and it is attractively and concisely presented,  often in a graphical or tabular form.  The book is illustrated with  hundreds of drawings, paintings and diagrams, many of them from  contemporary sources.  If you want information about ship types, naval  weapons, life on board, battles, ship handling, sails and rigging, watches  and bells, rates of pay, distribution of prize money, and seemingly almost  anything else you can think of, this is a very handy place to find it.  I  strongly recommend this book for anyone interested in learning about the  background to the novels of Patrick O'Brian, Alexander Kent, Dudley Pope,  and C.S. Forester.	2000-02-03
US	53057371	R32LSSAOY3L87U	155750962X	361565700	Warships of the Napoleonic Era (Blueprint Series (Annapolis, Md.).)	Books	4	24	24	N	N	An excellent survey of the types of vessels used	According to the book jacket, this book &quot;reproduces original plans of all the principal types of warship employed during the Napoleonic Wars&quot;.  The quality of these reproductions admittedly varies from ship  to ship because of the condition of the original plans (in the files of the  National Maritime Museum), but in general they quite clearly depict the  hull forms and basic features of the warships in question. Perhaps  two-thirds of the plans are from Bitish shipyards, while the rest are plans  made from captured ships.  Thus, a good representation of the ships of  France, Spain, the United States, the Netherlands, and Denmark/Sweden is  made, as well as those of the Royal Navy.  The emphasis is on the  development of types of vessels, rather than individual warships, and  Gardiner provides an informative narrative to accompany the plans.  While  not a book for the casual general reader, it should be of great interest to  the dedicated naval enthusiast.	2000-02-01
US	53057371	R2Q58JN3HD3EVG	1853673811	879923008	Wellington In The Peninsula 1808-1814 (Greenhill Military Paperbacks)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Excellent one volume account of a long war	Weller's book is a genuine classic of military history, describing a long war in a clear, incisive narrative.  The battles are described concisely while pointing out options, mistakes, and tactical aspects.  But it is a  book of more than just battle accounts.  Weller also intelligently explores  the strategic problems and opportunities faced by both sides during the  Peninuslar War.  Certainly Wellington is Weller's hero in this narrative,  but he me makes a compelling case for why the man who would become known as  the Iron Duke deserves his sterling reputation.	2000-01-21
US	53057371	RBJI5WA4I5OIR	1861760256	729567089	The 50-Gun Ship (Shipshape Series)	Books	4	19	20	N	N	For the specialist, but a valuable look.	Certainly &quot;The 50-Gun Ship&quot; is not a book for the reader only casually interested in the Age of Sail.  But for someone who wants to delve deep into the more obscure corners of the world of the Royal Navy during  the 18th and early 19th Centuries, this book is a worthwhile addition to  the library.  50-gun ships suffered from being neither fish nor fowl, being  too small for the line of battle and too large to serve as frigates, and  are usually neglected in histories of the era.  However, they did see  considerable service and Winfield's book fills in the void in the  historical record.  And there is a bonus here for fan's of Patrick O'Brian  and his hero, Jack Aubrey of the Royal Navy.  One of Jack's least favorite  commands, the &quot;Horrible Old Leopard&quot;, is prominently featured in  this volume, including meticulously detailed cutaway drawings and hull  plans.	2000-01-09
US	53057371	R97S76WLYVH02	1853673587	390833979	Custer and His Commands: From West Point to Little Bighorn (G.I. Series)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Puts human faces on the pages of history.	&quot;Custer and His Commands&quot; is part of the series &quot;G/I.: The Illustrated History of the American Soldier, His Uniform and His Equipment&quot;.  Fortunately, George Custer and his men (both during the  Civil War and the Plains Indian Wars) lived during the era of photography,  so Mr. Cox depends mostly upon photographs to illustrate his subject and  does not have to resort to drawings or paintings.  And this means we have  the opportunity to see the faces of the soldiers who wore those uniforms,  many of whom fought at-- and some of whom died at -- the Battle of the  Little Big Horn (about two-thirds of the volume is devoted to Custer's  post-Civil War career).  Even as a longtime Little Big Horn student, a  significant number of the photographs were new to me.  This book helps to  remind us that history is first and foremost about the people who went  before us.	2000-01-09
US	53057371	RRLE2Y92NOWNN	0933449313	15793601	Titanic: Safety, Speed and Sacrifice	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Superb Analysis of the Titanic's Sinking	George Behe performs a first-rate analysis of some of the most controversial aspects of the sinking of the Titanic, gathering together pieces of evidence which indicate that important aspects of the sinking  were covered up by the White Star Line after the sinking.  Make no mistake  about it -- this is not some sensationalist diatribe, but a  well-researched, carefully documented study.  It's a small book, but an  important contribution to the subject.	2000-01-08
US	53057371	R30JJVZ7URCCDT	0312214820	803663763	The Spy Novels of John Le Carre: Balancing Ethics and Politics (European Union)	Books	4	24	25	N	Y	A meticulous study of the secret world of John le Carre	Frequently the blurbs on book jackets have little relevance to the actual contents of the book, but this is not the case with Myron Aronoff's &quot;The Spy Novels of John le Carre: Balancing Ethics and Politics&quot;.  On the back cover, Wilson Carey McWilliams of Rutgers University states,  &quot;Aronoft's analysis is worthy of George Smiley: careful, relentless  and desperately shrewd, with an eye for subtle relationships and  connections, invariably probing below the appearances.&quot; I don't think  I can improve upon McWilliams's words.<br />There is no doubt from the very  first paragraph of the preface that Aronoff has embarked on an earnest,  thoughtful examination of le Carre's  espionage fiction, covering all the  novels from &quot;Call for the Dead&quot; through &quot;The Tailor of  Panama&quot;(but excluding &quot;The Naive and Sentimental Lover&quot;). He  performs a methodical analysis, book by book, of le Carre's recurring  themes and character types, relating these to the liberal humanism which he  considers - correctly, I believe - to be the core of le Carre's view of the  world. Make no mistake about it: this is a book with serious intent, not a  breezy light survey of a favorite author's works, filled with frothy  anecdotes.<br />Aronoff is a professor of political science and anthropology  and, he tells us in the preface, the genesis of this book was in university  seminars  which then led to a paper about le Carre that he presented before  the American Political Science Association. Although careful reading is at  times  demanded by the academic timbre of some of the text (he discusses  how &quot;le Carre emphatically rejects predetermined doctrines that offer  noncontextualized set formulas&quot;), Professor Aronoff's analysis is far  from being a barren exercise in arcane literary theory. Everything is  specifically grounded in le Carre's own words, with Aronoff's observations  directly connected to the incidents and characters he cites. Numerous  interviews given by le Carre over the years are a rich source of pertinent  information. What emerges from this meticulous study is a perceptive  portrait of a master author and his works. Moreover, the relationship of le  Carre's fiction to the real Intelligence world is discussed at length, with  a strong case made for his novels being genuine instruments of political  education. Lastly, a handy appendix is provided to describe the  &quot;Dramatis Personae&quot;, the main characters who inhabit the  tales.<br />Already the pages of my copy of &quot;The Spy Novels of John le  Carre&quot; are covered with highlighted sentences and paragraphs, many  containing keen insights new to me. To my way of thinking,Aronoff has  captured the essence of who le Carre is and what he has accomplished. I  will not attempt to summarize the book's conclusions here, other than  saying that a reader should come away  with a greatly enhanced appreciation  of le Carre's focus upon ambiguity, skepticism and balance. Instead, I will  simply encourage anyone sincerely interested in John le Carre's espionage  fiction to read this book. It belongs on the bookshelf right alongside  &quot;Smiley's People&quot; and &quot;A Perfect Spy&quot;.rous  interviews given by le Carre over the years are a rich source of pertinent  information. What emerges from this meticulous study is a perceptive  portrait of a master author and his works. Moreover, the relationship of le  Carre's fiction to the real Intelligence world is discussed at length, with  a strong case made for his novels being genuine instruments of political  education. Lastly, a handy appendix is provided to describe the  &quot;Dramatis Personae&quot;, the main characters who inhabit the  tales.<br />Already the pages of my copy of &quot;The Spy Novels of John le  Carre&quot; are covered with highlighted sentences and paragraphs, many  containing keen insights new to me. To my way of thinking,Aronoff has  captured the essence of who le Carre is and what he has accomplished. I  will not attempt to summarize the book's conclusions here, other than  saying that a reader should come away  with a greatly enhanced appreciation  of le Carre's focus upon ambiguity, skepticism and balance. Instead, I will  simply encourage anyone sincerely interested in John le Carre's espionage  fiction to read this book. It belongs on the bookshelf right alongside  &quot;Smiley's People&quot; and &quot;A Perfect Spy&quot;.	1999-12-29
US	53057371	R1BPITMLAXR9TK	0393048446	558585661	Blue at the Mizzen (Aubrey / Maturin)	Books	5	20	22	N	N	A solid continuation of a great historical fiction series	I don't know whether I would recommend &quot;Blue at the Mizzen&quot; to someone unfamiliar with Patrick O'Brian's excellent series of nautical  novels about Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin because, I believe, much of  the pleasure to be derived in reading the book comes from our acquaintance  with the main characters from previous novels.  But I would have no  hesititation at all at recommending it to any Aubrey-Maturin fan.  A  significant number of readers (not including me) of the previous book in  the series, &quot;The Hundred Days&quot;, were disappointed in the somber  tone of that novel -- an atmosphere fully justified, in my opinion, by the  central subject matter.  Those readers need not fear a repetition in  &quot;Blue at the Mizzen.&quot;  Stephen Maturin has recovered his interest  in the natural world and is once again a fully engaged participant in the  events around him.  It has been said that this novel might be the final  volume in the series (I hope not) but if it is, then the series will end on  a high note.  The book is full of typical O'Brian touches of elegantly  described scenes and subtle characterizations.  If it is not quite the  equal of &quot;Post Captain&quot; or &quot;Desolation Island&quot; (but  what is?) there is still much in &quot;Blue at the Mizzen&quot; to make  longtime fans of the series smile with satisfaction.  And if it is not the  final volume, then I shall look forward with great pleasure to the next  book.	1999-11-02
US	53057371	R2O1STMCJL1ZPQ	0151004196	535339864	How to Read a Poem: And Fall in Love with Poetry	Books	5	12	14	N	N	A wonderful, exciting elegy to the art of poetry.	Hirsch has created a marvelous and exciting book revealing the art and mystery of poetry from Classical times to the present.  I cannot believe that anyone reading this work will not be inspired to read more poetry.	1999-10-18
US	53057371	RSSBFDE0FS65D	0060193654	146235403	One of the Guys	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Dark and wry look at a man at sea ...	Think of &quot;Catch-22&quot; and &quot;Apocalypse Now&quot; and add a dash of Dante's &quot;Inferno&quot; -- then I think you are in the neighborhood of Robert Clark Young's dark and wry novel about an imposter  aboard a modern US Navy vessel.  Miles Derry, a recovering alcoholic and  druggie, goes from a job in a porno store to unexpected heights of growth  when he assumes another man's identity.  It makes for compelling reading as  Miles' odyssey carries him along on a voyage with what I fervently hope is  NOT an average US Navy crew.	1999-09-12
US	53057371	RX94QB9VAUAGK	0786406844	56351560	Persons, Animals, Ships and Cannon in the Aubrey-Maturin Sea Novels of Patrick O'Brian	Books	5	33	33	N	N	An extraordinary reference books about extraordinary novels.	Anthony Gary Brown's &quot;Persons, Animals, Ships and Cannon in the Aubrey-Maturin Sea Novels&quot; is a wonderful resource for anyone who loves the nautical fiction of Patrick O'Brian.  The depth and breadth of  research evident in this companion volume to the Aubrey-Maturin series is  truly awe-inspiring.  Every &quot;proper name&quot; reference -- no matter  how slight or obscure -- has been diligently tracked and, where ever  possible the historical reality behind the fictional is revealed.  Characters I had assumed to be merely creations of Patrick O'Brian's  imagination are shown by Gary Brown to be based in actual persons.  Whenever Stephen Maturin speaks of an obscure botanist or philosopher,  Brown has explained who he or she was and what was the significance of  their work.  There are many, many hours of delightful browsing in this  volume for any Patrick O'Brian fan.	1999-08-20
US	53057371	R1TYDLS3ZGAA7Z	0380973332	302223171	Lord Demon	Books	4	18	21	N	N	A Last, Lingering Taste of Roger Zelany	&quot;Lord Demon&quot; is, I understand, the final posthumous book of the great Roger Zelazny, completed by his friend and companion Jane Lindskold.  It is a novel which fits well within the classic Zelazny mold, set in a  world of the quasi-rationalized supernatural.  This time the mythological  background is Chinese, but I think if you did a DNA analysis of &quot;Lord  Demon&quot; you would find strains of &quot;Lord of Light&quot; and  probably &quot;Jack of Shadows&quot; in its ancestry.  I would not select  it as among the very best of his works -- Zelazny's best are dazzling --  but &quot;Lord Demon&quot; is fun to read and the usual Zelazny themes are  dancing around.  If you're a Zelazny fan, I think you will like it.  And if  you have never read him before ... well, it's not a bad introduction at  all.	1999-08-05
US	53057371	R1AEU6IJAD9YR4	0312205767	56175887	Rubicon: A Novel of Ancient Rome	Books	5	42	44	N	N	Fans of the Roma Sub Rosa books will be genuinely surprised.	I have been reading all of Steven Saylor's &quot;Roma Sub Rosa&quot; novels (featuring the First Century BC detective Gordianus the Finder) since he began publishing them nearly a decade ago.  The historical  background for the series is superbly researched, and the reader inevitably  learns much about Ancient Rome.  Moreover, the plots and characters are  intricate and compelling.  With &quot;Rubicon&quot; Saylor has reached a  new level, delving deeper into Gordianus's soul than he has ever done  before.  And Saylor has done something which is very difficult for the  author of a series to accomplish -- in &quot;Rubicon&quot; he genuinely  surprises the reader.<br />I would urge people, however, to first read the  other novels in the &quot;Roma Sub Rosa&quot; cycle before approaching  &quot;Rubicon,&quot; so that they better understand Gordianus and his  family.	1999-07-22
US	53057371	R3KPKF0JJ7OOB0	0871137380	189891237	Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Superb Combat History	Mark Bowden has created a extraordinary work of modern military history, telling a story of heroism and horror.  I can think of few other books which can match it for its atmosphere of enveloping authenticity.  And what  is remarkable is that the author is scrupulously fair to all involved,  never taking the easy way out by pointing fingers at supposed villains.  The US Army Rangers and other military personnel who told their stories to  Bowden showed great moral courage by revealing their innermost feelings of  fear, anger, pride, and confusion.  The book neither glorifies war nor  mindlessly denigrates the military; it is simply the story of men caught up  in terrifying events and often finding extraordinary internal sources of  courage and compassion.  Moreover, Bowden corrects the erroneous  impressions created by the hasty press reports of the time and for the  first time reveals what actually happened on that day.  &quot;Black Hawk  Down&quot; succeeds both as incisive journalism and as powerful human  drama.	1999-03-26
US	53057371	R7QMAJOQCLQRG	0393046745	414513282	The Hundred Days (Aubrey/Maturin Vol. 19)	Books	5	39	40	N	N	One of the best of the series, but challenging	Scanning through the other customer reviews of &quot;The Hundred Days&quot;, I am struck by the chasm between those who condemn the book (sometimes in startlingly harsh terms) and those who applaud it.  I count  myself firmly among the latter, but acknowledge that this volume differs  significantly from earlier entries in the series.  What some readers  apparently view as an absence of skill and spirit on O'Brian's part, I find  instead to be the product of a subtle and masterful command of the literary  art.  Death is a central theme, Death is a chief character of &quot;The  Hundred Days&quot;, and I find it not surprising at all that O'Brian has  elected to use a style in keeping with that particular focus.  I have seen  numerous comments from dissatisfied readers decrying O'Brian's  &quot;failure&quot; to deal with the deaths of major characters at length.  With all due respect, I think that view misses the whole point of what and  how O'Brian has written.  The cheapest, most false piece of writing  produced by any hack would have lavished sorrow upon these deaths;  shedding shallow tears would have been the easy thing to do.  The  abruptness of these deaths, even the absence of healing mourning, heightens  the pain and the sense of loss we feel.  O'Brian has not written a book to  make us &quot;feel good&quot;.  Instead he has painted for us a portrait of  emotional constraint, the hues of the world washed over with the grey of an  unexpressed grief.  Only at rare moments are we pernitted to see the black  gulf beneath Stephen's determined insistence to continue on after Diana's  death.  He is a man who is hiding even -- or, especially --  from himself  the depth of his loss, while we see that grief has dulled his usual acuity.  O'Brian has not tried to &quot;entertain&quot; us here, and those seeking  light diversion would do better to look elsewhere.  No, &quot;The Hundred  Days&quot; is not an easy book, but it evidences an undiminished literary  skill.  I believe this novel to be O'Brian's finest writing in several  years.  Long after finishing it, &quot;The Hundred Days&quot; haunts me.believe this novel to be O'Brian's finest writing in several  years.  Long after finishing it, &quot;The Hundred Days&quot; haunts me.	1998-10-30
US	53057371	R2CDQ6OFB2FFS0	0886924294	260789263	"Titanic" Disaster-Hardback	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Titanic source of sources.	&quot;Titanic&quot; Disaster is the facsimile reprint of the 1912 US  Government Printing Office publication of the testimony before the US  Senate subcommittee investigating the loss of the Titanic.  This massive  book, over 1100 pages in length, contains the entire transcript of that  testimony, taken from over seventy witnesses, most of them survivors of the  disaster.  The hearings began only a few days after the sinking, when  memories were still fresh.  All the surviving ship's officers and White  Star Line director Bruce Ismay testified, along with numerous passengers  and crew members.  Reading what they had to say is about as close to  actually being present at the sinking as we can hope to get.  No other book  contains so much first-hand information about what happened on that April  night in the North Atlantic.	1998-09-19
US	53057371	RC6UN0UFQKL57	0713726946	255538755	The Tall Ship in Art: Roy Cross, Derek Gardner, John Groves, Geoff Hunt, Mark Myers	Books	5	23	24	N	Y	A superb portrait of the classic age of sail	The clarity and color of the reproductions of marine paintings in this  book are nothing less than superb.  While the individual styles and, to  some extent, the specific subject matter of the five artists vary, I find  it impossible to single out any one of them as being &quot;better&quot;  than the others.  Each is a highly talented artist who brings the past to  life in a most convincing manner.  While men-of-war are probably the most  frequent subject of the paintings in this book, merchant vessels and ships  of exploration and even of pleasure are not neglected.  It is pure joy to  just leaf through this volume and gaze at the wealth of images.  Anyone who  is fascinated by the sea and sailing ships cannot fail to be enchanted by  this book.	1998-09-03
US	53057371	R1P890XMG24VZ1	155750640X	924015920	Nelson and the Nile: The Naval War Against Bonaparte 1798	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Narrative history as it should be written!	&quot;Nelson and the Nile&quot; is something of a departure for Brian  Lavery.  He is best known for his superb books on the design and  development of sailing warships and as the author of &quot;Nelson's  Navy&quot;, an excellent survey of the ships and men of the Royal Navy  during the French Revolutionary and Napoleonic Wars.  With &quot;Nelson and  the Nile&quot;, however, Lavery has produced a history of a single naval  campaign, which ended in Horatio Nelson's great victory over a French fleet  at the Battle of the Nile in 1798.  He describes this battle as having a  greater importance than the better-known Trafalgar, concluding that the  Battle of the Nile irrevocably killed the new French Navy which was  struggling to emerge from the destruction of the French Revolution.  It was  the Nile which made Trafalgar inevitable.  Lavery fills the pages with  vivid character sketches, exciting description of dramatic events, and rich  details which create a wonderful sense of place and time.  This is how  narrative history should be written, as exciting and compelling as a novel.  I imagine that naval fiction enthusiasts, such as the avid fans of Patrick  O'Brian's novels, would relish &quot;Nelson and the Nile&quot;.	1998-08-23
US	53057371	ROUS1EHDZ0C3P	0061050350	895888953	The Alien Years	Books	4	0	0	N	N	New old territory for Silverberg.	Tentacled purple aliens with glowing orange eyes invade Los Angeles with the human resistance movement led by a family headed by a man known as &quot;The Colonel&quot;  -- and the name on the cover is Robert Silverberg?  The plot summary and, for that matter, most of the book itself seemed to be something more likely from the pens of Larry Niven and Jerry Pournelle than from Silverberg, master of the somber, psychological SF novel.  Many of Silverberg's most successful books explore the depths of the mind and spirit of an individual man.  The locales sometimes are exotic (e.g., &quot;Lord Valentine's Castle&quot; and &quot;The Face of the Waters&quot;) but the real setting is almost always inside the heart and brain of the point-of-view character.  In &quot;The Alien Years&quot;, however, Silverberg presents us with an alien invasion, a theme which long ago became virtually a cliche of SF books and movies, and he tells the story through a multiplicity of viewpoints, mos! t often as seen by members of the Carmichael family, a clan noted for their steely blue eyes and their iron sense of duty.  The book jacket's blurb of &quot;His Epic Masterpiece&quot; refers to, I imagine, the timescale of the novel -- the action taking place across several decades. This plot and these characters are not anything new to SF; similar elements have been used by numberous authors over the years.  But, Silverberg being Silverberg, there are unusual touches.  Despite their stereotypical tentacles, the invaders of &quot;The Alien Years&quot; are more mystery than monster.  They present the successive generations of Carmichaels with a challenge and goal as forbidding and unknown as the Wall in Silverberg's &quot;Kingdoms of the Wall&quot;.  And the ending of the novel sets Silverberg's own stamp on the old story.  I cannot think of another author who would have created quite the same conclusion to the novel.  &quot;The Alien Years&quot; does not perhaps rank among the!  very best of Silverberg's work, but it is interesting to s! ee him work with an overly familiar and somewhat tired theme and to give it his own special new twist.erg's work, but it is interesting to s! ee him work with an overly familiar and somewhat tired theme and to give it his own special new twist.	1998-08-11
US	53057371	R1C13A1YAZG31A	0679767827	958250266	Psychoshop	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Is it more Bester or more Zelazny?  The answer is &quot;yes&quot;.	As a long-time fan of both Alfie Bester and Roger Zelazny, I was delighted to find this posthumous collaboration.  &quot;Pschoshop&quot; is, I think, true to both authors' bodies of work.  After all, Bester's influence on Zelazny is evident in a a number of works, most notably &quot;Eye of Cat&quot; with its dazzling experimental typography so reminiscent of what Bester had done in &quot;The Demolished Man&quot; and &quot;The Stars My Destination&quot;.  What parts belong to which writer?  I really would not care to guess.  Their styles blend too well for that to be clear.  &quot;Psychoshop&quot; is not the equal of the finest works of either Bester or Zelazny -- a level that few other writers can match -- but it is amusing and bright and energetic and engaging and makes a satisfactory last gift from these two wonderfully creative authors.	1998-07-10
US	53057371	R2HG802BJ4DUVE	0684807548	99455039	Comanche Moon	Books	5	71	75	N	N	A worthy prequel to the classic Lonesome Dove	&quot;Comanche Moon&quot; is described as the final volume of the &quot;Lonesome Dove&quot; saga although chronologically it is the second of the four novels, taking place between &quot;Dead Man's Walk&quot; and &quot;Lonesome Dove&quot;.  Readers of the other volumes in series will encounter familiar names here:  Woodrow Call and Gus McCrae, of course, but also Jake Spoon and Pea Eye Parker and Deets of &quot;Dove&quot;, Long Bill Coleman and Buffalo Hump of &quot;Walk&quot;, Famous Shoes and Charlie Goodnight of &quot;Streets of Laredo&quot; and others.  As has become increasingly evident in his novels, McMurtry is not concerned with presenting a story of the West correct in all the minor historical details.  For example, in &quot;Comanche Moon&quot; we find one character armed with a Winchester rifle 10 years before that weapon's introduction.  Instead, his aim appears to be to create a story of about four parts gritty realism and one part romantic myth - and in &quot;Comanche Moon&quot; he achieves success.  The novel abounds with characters more extravagant, larger-than-life personalities, yet these people are true to the story McMurtry is telling.  Captain Inish Scull of the Texas Rangers and his wife, Inez, and the &quot;Black Vaquero&quot; Ahumado are unlikely to have had close real-life models, but in &quot;Comanche Moon&quot; they are forceful, fascinating figures.  As is usual, McMurtry's characters are driven by their own obsessions.  If I might sum up the theme of this novel, and much else of McMurtry's fiction, I would say that it would be &quot;times change, people don't&quot; - and not just &quot;people&quot; in the larger sense, but people as individuals, holding true to their own particular, narrow view of how they should live their lives.  Characters like Woodrow Call and Inish Scull and Buffalo Hump are admirable because of their great integrity, no matter what destruction they seed while pursuing their individual visions of what is right.  In &quot;Comanche Moon&quot;, McMurtry's Indian characters - the Comanche Buffalo Hump and Kicking Wolf and the Kickapoo Famous Shoes - are perhaps more finely drawn than in any of the other Lonesome Dove books.  They are not merely white men wearing paint and feathers.  They live and die by their own logic, as alien as that system of belief may seem to a late Twentieth Century reader.  Although any judgment must be subjective, I would rate &quot;Comanche Moon&quot; as at least the equal of &quot;Streets of Laredo&quot; and better than &quot;Dead Man's Walk&quot;, although not so high as the magnificent &quot;Lonesome Dove&quot;.  I know that part of my enjoyment of the novel is my familiarity with several of the major characters, and my advice to any reader new to the &quot;Lonesome Dove&quot; saga would be to read the books in their order of publication rather than their chronological order of internal dates.uot;Comanche Moon&quot;, McMurtry's Indian characters - the Comanche Buffalo Hump and Kicking Wolf and the Kickapoo Famous Shoes - are perhaps more finely drawn than in any of the other Lonesome Dove books.  They are not merely white men wearing paint and feathers.  They live and die by their own logic, as alien as that system of belief may seem to a late Twentieth Century reader.  Although any judgment must be subjective, I would rate &quot;Comanche Moon&quot; as at least the equal of &quot;Streets of Laredo&quot; and better than &quot;Dead Man's Walk&quot;, although not so high as the magnificent &quot;Lonesome Dove&quot;.  I know that part of my enjoyment of the novel is my familiarity with several of the major characters, and my advice to any reader new to the &quot;Lonesome Dove&quot; saga would be to read the books in their order of publication rather than their chronological order of internal dates.	1997-11-02
US	53057371	R1BAUN533BJ9ET	038097326X	588478390	Donnerjack	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Quintessential Zelazny	I approached &quot;Donnerjack&quot;, as a posthumously published novel, with some trepidation.  Would there be anything of Roger Zelazny in this book beyond his name on the cover?  The answer is, there is everything of Zelazny in &quot;Donnerjack&quot;.  Themes common to his best work - shadow worlds, shifting identities, ancient gods, children of two universes, Death personified, and artificial beings - resonate strongly throughout this book.  Readers of &quot;Lord of Light&quot;, &quot;Creatures of Light and Darkness&quot;, &quot;Jack of Shadows&quot;, the Amber novels, and his greatest short fiction will find much in &quot;Donnerjack&quot; to recall those earlier works, yet nowhere before did Zelazny take those themes to such a level of complexity.  At 500 pages, the book is far longer than any of his previous novels, and the larger scale is put to good use in weaving an intricate tapestry out of those familiar colors and shapes, creating a picture full of quintessential Zelazny characters and images. What portion of the book belongs to Jane Lindskold and which to her friend and companion I cannot pretend to guess, but I would say that there is nothing in &quot;Donnerjack&quot; which falls outside of the expected range of the Zelazny universe.  I read the book with great pleasure, tinged with sorrow from the knowledge that there will be no more works from Roger Zelazny.  This final novel reminds us of his imagination and artistry and of what we have lost with his death.	1997-10-01
US	53057371	R3CRK3XRNKDL4B	0878423494	287349391	Lakota Noon: The Indian Narrative of Custer's Defeat	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A meticulous reconstruction of the Little Big Horn battle	A meticulous reconstruction of the Little Big Horn battle<br />I have had the pleasure of reading Greg Michno's new &quot;Lakota Noon&quot; while it was still in manuscript form. He has created a meticulous reconstruction of the Little Big Horn battle as seen through Indian eyes, using virtually every known Native American primary source. Michno weaves these narratives a coherent tapestry, detailing the experiences of individual warriors and Indian observers as the battle progressed, tracing their movements across the Montana countryside during that hot June Sunday afternoon in 1876. &quot;Lakota Noon&quot; is a major contribution to understanding this controversial event	1997-07-29
US	53057371	R2GILPE54V1RNJ	1853672653	321958226	Gettysburg: An Alternate History	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A fascinating look at the &quot;what if's&quot; of Gettysburg	&quot;Gettysburg:  An Alternative History&quot; is a fascinating look at many of the major &quot;what if's&quot; of the Battle of Gettysburg.  What if Ewell had pushed his attack on the first night of the battle?  What if Longstreet had swung farther to the right before launching his assault on the second day?  What if the grand Confederate attack on Cemetery Ridge on the third day had been better supported?  These and other might have been's are addressed.  The book is written in the form of a history of the battle as if it had been fought with these &quot;what if's&quot; actually taking place.  And it is well illustrated with photographs, maps, and even paintings and engravings of these events-that-never-were.  Tsouras, a professional military intelligence analyst, writes in a lucid, exciting style, filling his narrative with eyewitness accounts from the men who did the fighting.  Anyone strongly interested in the key battle should enjoy and learn from this book.  By asking (and answering) these &quot;what if&quot; questions, Mr. Tsouras prompts us all to think about the how's and why's of the actual battle	1997-07-15
US	53057371	R3D5SXKDO9N5GN	0892965878	198340912	The Ax	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A stunning, convincing portrait of a man driven to murder.	Although a departure from Westlake's usual openly comical crime novels, The Ax is perhaps his finest book yet.  The portrait of Burke Devore, an average man driven beyond the limits of despair by being &quot;downsized&quot; out of his middle-class life -- his family falling apart and only continued unemployment in his future -- is wholly convincing and absolutely chilling.  Westlake perfectly captures the emotions of a man trapped in that situation and Devore's solution to his problems by murdering his way back to employment and his accustomed way of life seems utterly, horribly reasonable.  The writing is excellent and draws the reader on and on, deeper and deeper.  The Ax is a startling incisive indictment of the costs of the 1990's mania for &quot;downsizing&quot; or as Burke Devore sees it, the insanity of discarding the society's most productive workers in the prime of their productivity, all to feed the avarice of stockholders and CEO's who believe the end justifies the means	1997-06-27
US	53057371	R2CWX480WQLE9	0878423567	287349391	Lakota Noon: The Indian Narrative of Custer's Defeat	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A meticulous reconstruction of the Little Big Horn battle	I have had the pleasure of reading Greg Michno's new &quot;Lakota<br />Noon&quot; while it was still in manuscript form.  He has created<br />a meticulous reconstruction of the Little Big Horn battle as<br /> seen through Indian eyes, using virtually every known Native<br /> American primary source.  Michno weaves these narratives<br /> a coherent tapestry, detailing the experiences of individual<br /> warriors and Indian observers as the battle progressed,<br /> tracing their movements across the Montana countryside<br /> during that hot June Sunday afternoon in 1876.  &quot;Lakota<br /> Noon&quot; is a major contribution to understanding this<br /> controversial event.	1997-02-11
US	53057371	R8Z2Z6KUFKKOX	0878423044	705523136	The Mystery of E Troop: Custer's Gray Horse Company at the Little Bighorn	Books	5	21	25	N	N	An important contribution to study of the Little Big Horn	Michno has performed a meticulous analysis of all available<br />evidence about the fate of one company of the Seventh<br />Cavalry during the Battle of the Little Bighorn.  Many<br /> students of this famous Indian fight have contended that<br /> these soldiers had been killed in the bottom of a narrow<br /> ravine on the Custer battlefield, their remains now either<br /> buried by erosion or washed away.  Michno presents a<br /> convincing case that this view is erroneous due to mis-<br /> interpretation of the evidence and makes a persuasive<br /> arguement that these graves are in fact well-marked on<br /> another part of the battlefield.  Michno has made an<br /> important contribution to the tactical understanding of<br /> this most famous of the Indian Wars battles.	1997-02-04
US	53057371	R1N6TW8QW2MQ6X	0395742811	784605708	The Secret War for the Union: The Untold Story of Military Intelligence in the Civil War	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A groundbreaking study of intelligence in the Civil War	Fishel's masterful study of Military Intelligence operations<br />conducted by the Union's Army of the Potomac, focusing on<br />the period from 1861 to 1863, is largely based upon files in<br /> the National Archives, records which had been virtually<br /> ignored previously by historians.  The author meticulously<br /> chronicles the development of the Bureau of Military<br /> Intelligence under a succession of Army commanders until by<br /> 1863 it had become a &quot;full service&quot; intelligence<br /> organization, collecting, analyzing, and disseminating<br /> information.  Fishel corrects many myths, especially those<br /> of the &quot;Southen belle&quot; spies, but provides remarkable new<br /> details in how information was gathered and how that<br /> information was then used -- or misused.  While by no means<br /> a &quot;light&quot; read, this book will be of great interest to<br /> anyone wishing to learn more about this much-neglected<br /> topic.	1997-02-03
US	53057371	R3R0LXLACIOBFC	0684810433	973694836	CUSTER: The Controversial Life of George Armstrong Custer	Books	5	13	13	N	N	The best biography of George Armstrong Custer ever written	Wert's biography of the flamboyant soldier, who has become<br />more of a symbol in the 20th Century than a genuine person,<br />is highly objective, addressing both the positive aspects<br /> of Custer's personality and career and also the negative<br /> side.  In examining the numerous controversies and charges<br /> which surround the memory of George Custer, Wert carefully<br /> presents the evidence pro and con and renders a judicious<br /> conclusion.  The book is balanced between Custer's early<br /> career with its extraordinary successes during the Civil<br /> War and his life after the end of that war, when he was<br /> faced by challenges worse than those of a Virginia<br /> battlefield.  Through strong, unembellished prose, Wert<br /> builds a well-rounded portrait of a soldier and a man,<br /> neither without flaw nor yet the caricature that he has<br /> become in recent decades.	1997-02-03
