US	53059456	R2WBN42K4GTH9L	0691019681	649589095	The Open Society and Its Enemies, Vol. 1: The Spell of Plato	Books	4	12	19	N	N	Skewers everyone in sight, sometimes unfairly	Yes, this is an important book, yes, Popper knows his stuff, and yes, historicism does have its flaws.  Yet the other reviews here seem to miss Popper's essential Manicheanism: his belief that there is a clearly defined intellectual/social battle of &quot;good against evil,&quot; in which his book is a salvo for the forces of Good. <br />Any mature human being, however, knows that the world works in shades of gray, and seldom do we encounter pure Good or Evil.  It seems that Popper cannot stop thinking of most philosophers as either all-good, or, in many cases, all-bad.  His derisive use of &quot;German&quot; for philosophy which he thinks is Evil is a small insight into his excesses.  (By the way, to reviewers who claimed Popper is German: No, he's Austrian, and thus probably has an axe to grind with Germans/Prussians.)<br />Popper's treatment of Hegel leaves one with the impression that Hegel has nothing -- literally nothing -- to contribute to philosophy.  I just refuse to believe that.  Some have more to contribute than others, and Hegel can sometimes be unclear and self-contradictory, but to categorically dismiss everything Hegel ever wrote as complete rubbish is intellectual dishonesty of the kind Popper claims to abhor.  Surely, there must be at least one small grain of wisdom in everyone's thinking, even if we disagree with their conclusions.  Too often, Popper either fails to find this grain, or perhaps doesn't even attempt to look for it.<br />On the upside, I was impressed with Popper's uncharacteristically evenhanded treatment of Marx.  Popper writes that Marx had good intentions, of the &quot;Open Society&quot; sort, even if he was trapped in historicism.<br />This is a pretty engrossing read, even if Popper's self-righteous skewering of German (and ancient Greek) philosophers is excessive.  Popper stands up for humanism, free will, open exchange of ideas, and moral responsibility: the pillars of what he calls the &quot;Open Society.&quot;	2000-12-05
US	53059456	R2C1CT5DI65KX1	0674576039	631969675	Mimesis as Make-Believe: On the Foundations of the Representational Arts	Books	5	31	35	N	N	Convincing common-sense theory of fiction	Mimesis As Make-Believe is one of the most intellectually satisfying books I've read in a long time.  Walton begins by exploring some obvious -- but too often neglected -- questions about imagination, fictionality, and make-believe.  He then introduces several theories of fiction (from the analytic tradition), and some theories of the ontology fictional beings, until finally introducing his own theory as a solution to the dilemmas others leave unsolved.<br />Following in the tradition of Wittgenstein and Derrida, Walton argues that fiction comes from playful use of signifiers, what Wittgenstein would call &quot;language games&quot; or &quot;language-play.&quot;  When we experience fiction, according to Walton, we &quot;act as if&quot; the fictional world were real.  Walton introduces an epistemology of fiction, with the operator &quot;it is fictional&quot; functioning much like the operator &quot;it is true&quot; functions in our world -- but with the strong admonition that being fictional is not the same thing as being true.  <br />This philosophy of fiction as a way for humans to &quot;act as if&quot; is appealing on several grounds.  It fits well with common sense notions of fiction, and unlike many competing theories, does not force us to go against our pretheoretical ways of talking about fiction.    We do not need to commit ourselves to fictional universes housing fictional beings, but we also do not need to say that any statement involving fictional beings is false.  Everything is worked out quite precisely, true to the analytic tradition, with a few brief forays into symbolic logic.  But unlike many analytic philosopherse, Walton still takes art and fiction seriously, and does not dismiss them as pathological forms of signification.<br />Overall, this book is entertaining, well-written, an enjoyable read, and intellectually groundbreaking.  It provides a way to think about fiction that, for the first time, obviates the need for heroic assumptions or unappealing ontological constructs.	2000-11-30
US	53059456	R1ZHGO1WP59N8Y	0471119784	569125327	Where Are the Customers' Yachts? or A Good Hard Look at Wall Street (A Marketplace Book)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Hilariously funny, and bitingly true	Schwed's main thesis is that Wall Street's experts, advice-givers, and prognosticators are just making wild guesses -- guesses for which they'll charge you quite a tidy sum.   This book is humorous in its own right, without resorting to the same old cliches about stocks which many other &quot;financial humor&quot; books use.  The author actually objected to using this title for the book, as he thought that joke was too old.<br />On that note, the book is surprisingly well-written.  Schwed's educational background is, as he says, in 19th century Romantic poets, not in business.  His writing style is quite similar to that of &quot;Stanley Bing,&quot; with the same kind of &quot;har-har&quot; wit, and a thin sprinkling of self-disgust.  <br />If you think your full-service broker knows the future, or that technical analysis really works, or that &quot;they&quot; are driving down stock prices, read this book for an education about Wall Street.  However, even if you already know the truth about these things (and especially if you've read Malkiel's book, or any treatment of efficient markets theory), this book is valuable for some very funny observations and notes.  <br />The other reviewers are right about how relevant this book is for today: it was written in 1940, but aside from the minor technological differences between then and now (e.g., allusions to ticker machines), it could well have been written in 2000.<br />This book is an excellent warning about too much faith in Wall Street pros (who Schwed says aren't crooks -- they're not smart enough to be crooks), with some genuinely funny (I laughed out loud, and I'm a tough customer with humor) observations and allusions.	2000-11-19
US	53059456	R3VHUW12JBPHIE	067972575X	562648892	The Tin Drum	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Pure magic and joy -- among the best novels of the century	There is so much to say about this novel -- Grass's first -- that perhaps there is nothing to say about it.  It is simultaneously moving and hilarious, joking and didactic, full of joy and melancholy.  Oskar is a  man-child largely devoid of chronological progress: he was born fully  mentally developed, and stopped physically developing after the age of 3.  Oskar is, therefore, in the language of the mathematicians, held constant.  Everything around Oskar revolves and changes, and he only stands and  observes, screaming, and beating his tin drum.  Gunter Grass is a master of  being intellectual in warm, human tones, and embedding strong social morals  within a lighthearted, quick-paced story.  Overall, this book is immensely  enjoyable and thought-provoking, more so than anything I had read in a  long, long time.  Grass's Nobel was well-deserved; too bad it took him so  long to get it.	2000-07-27
US	53059456	R3ST95WDQ3XPIO	0520049160	225452988	This Is Not a Pipe (Quantum Books)	Books	5	29	33	N	N	Great quick introduction to Foucault	No, Foucault is never easy.  He sometimes even writes in Foucault-ese.  But the intellectual payoffs are well worth it.  Seeing him approach a single painting -- which you can look at while reading the book -- is much  less taxing than seeing him dissect huge topics such as the history of  prisons or the history of sex.  Sure, those bigger Foucault tomes carry  immense rewards all their own... but for a good, stimulating, and  challenging (but not TOO challenging!) introduction to Foucault's  philosophy of seeing and of naming, this is a great read.  <br />Perhaps this  book is a better choice for philosophy or lit-crit fams than art / art  history fans.  The &quot;artistic&quot; value of the painting is really of  not much importance to Foucault; he is more concerned with its  self-referentiality, its use of meaning and names, and so on.	2000-07-09
US	53059456	R2BTOXDI4RJ5MZ	0802130305	563004784	Ficciones	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Magical, captivating; Borges is a master of the short story	These whimsical, fantastic tales explore the Borgesian themes of mirrors,  cults, plots, and history.  Borges is a modern master, with one foot  planted firmly in the traditions of Miguel de los Cervantes's age, the  other foot planted in solidarity with (post)modern writers such as Umberto  Eco or even Thomas Pynchon.  It's a shame that Borges never achieved the  fame of the latter two, at least not in the United States.<br />Perhaps this  comparison is off-base, but this collection makes me think of JS Bach's  &quot;inventions&quot;: brilliantly written, innovative little morsels that  you must take sensitively and savor long after you are done with  them.<br />The only criticism I sometimes hear about these short stories is  that there are no genuinely human, fleshed out characters (besides perhaps  the narrator), and the plots tend to be about abstract ideas and individual  conflictedness, rather than the more conventional plots about human  interactions.   What can I say?  That's just how Borges is.  I think he's a  great (and underrated/underappreciated!) storyteller and literary  craftsman, but maybe if you like a lot of character realism and musings  about interpersonal relationships in your stories, Borges isn't for  you.<br />This is a thoroughly enjoyable collection, especially if you like  &quot;magical realism&quot; and short stories that read like clever  inventions.	2000-07-09
US	53059456	R3F00LP0XLXF8M	0671880187	536943079	Kitchen	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Cute, touching story -- not great literature though	This was a very enjoyable novel: the protagonist's thoughts and feelings  are described with great simplicity and sensitivity, and her romantic  travails are ones with which I could identify.  It was fun to read, it was  touching, it was like a warm conversation with a good friend.  It is not  great, classic literature, and it did not impact me in any great  intellectual way -- but perhaps it was not meant to do so.	2000-07-09
US	53059456	R1TQHJIYWQJBWA	0192834703	175734036	The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	40	49	N	N	Amazingly innovative, clever, and defiant	Tristram Shandy has a cult following -- although few people have actually  read it, most of us have read something directly influenced by it.  Sterne  was a creative genius, and pulled no punches when telling the story of  Tristram Shandy, gentleman.  Not only is this a shaggy-dog story, and a  prototype for &quot;experimental&quot; writers like James Joyce and William  Burroughs, but it is also a (remarkably early) meditation on the  self-referentiality of literature, and the fine (nonexistent?) separation  between a book's abstract textual form and its physical, material,  paper-and-ink form.  Like a good postmodernist, Sterne realizes you can't  very well separate the two.<br />You didn't like this book?  Well maybe Sterne  didn't want you to like it.  Maybe likeability should not be the primary  project of a text.  One of the meta-statements Sterne seems to be making is  he has no respect for your time, nor your desire for narrative cohesion --  and why should he?  Defiant, Sterne is.  Very defiant.  Cool.	2000-07-09
US	53059456	R3MD5O31MBBBK5	0375701907	635714194	Straight Man: A Novel	Books	2	5	15	N	N	Ho-hum, mildly enjoyable, slightly funny	Maybe I would've liked this book more had I not come to it with such high expectations.  The reviews' and bookjackets' comparisons with literary greats had me blindsided.  I expected profound insights, searing wit, and  side-splitting humor.  Instead, I found a somewhat clever tale of  middle-age crises in small-town academia.  It's not a bad book.  But I  simply didn't find it as humorous nor as profound as most people found it.   The situations are pretty predictable, and the personal crises could have  come straight from John Updike.  Some characters are well written, but they  are for the most part typecast stereotypes (for example: &quot;Orshe,&quot;  the token ponytailed male feminist who is so named because he always says  &quot;or she&quot; when someone uses &quot;he&quot; as a generic pronoun...  he provides some comic relief, but he, like most of Russo's characters,  seems so cartoonish).<br />Maybe I'm too young to fully appreciate the  characters in this book.  I thought DeLillo's &quot;White Noise&quot; was a  much funnier take on late 20th century academia.	2000-07-09
US	53059456	R3GEXXPC6DP5O6	0679750533	347053634	The Elephant Vanishes: Stories	Books	5	85	89	N	N	Delightful postmodern urban surrealism: similar to R. Carver	This is perhaps the best collection of 20th/21st century urban short  stories I have ever read.  Murakami's ability to create compelling  characters in just a few paragraphs, and place them in absurd situations,  is unrivaled.<br />Murakami is right on par with Raymond Carver, maybe even  more challenging and interesting -- since Murakami's story premise is more  often absurd and surreal, unlike Carver's &quot;around the house and in the  yard&quot; focus.  But the clipped sentences, the meetings of strangers,  and the very self-aware male narrators, are quite similar.<br />&quot;The  Kangaroo Communique,&quot; which appears in this collection, is one of my  all-time favorite pieces of short fiction -- and it actually reminds me  more of Borges than of Carver.  It is about kangaroos, and customer service  at a department store, and stalkers, and the nature of  self-representation.... well, just read it.  <br />Thematic similarities  between Murakami and Carver: lapses in communication, people just missing  each other, chance encounters between urban strangers, etc.  One major  difference between the two writers is that Murakami is always in awe at the  (sometimes incomprehensible, sometimes cruel) beauty of the world, while  Carver tends to border on the morose.<br />Personally, I much prefer  Murakami's stories to the one novel of Murakami's (&quot;Hardboiled  Wonderland&quot;) that I read -- his succinct, slightly neurotic, slightly  dreamy first-person style is (in my opinion) best suited to the short story  form.<br />Overall, these are exquisite short stories, perfect for the age of  chance meetings, lonely drifting souls, and cyber-disconnectedness....  If  you like these stories, you may also like Murakami's very imaginative and  inventive novels.  (I prefer his short stories, but that's just me.)  For  fans of clever, self-referential, semi-surreal short stories similar to  Murakami's, I'd highly recommend the short story anthology  &quot;Ficciones&quot; byJorge Luis Borges.	2000-07-09
US	53059456	R2O9WCPDP8QH2W	0452281806	347963130	Devil Take the Hindmost: A History of Financial Speculation	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Excellent social-economic history of finance	Chancellor is a rare breed: an economic historian well versed in both the nitty-gritty of financial analysis, and in the &quot;reading&quot; of social and intellectual history.  This book presents plenty of both.  Its  author is extremely well-read (&quot;seems to have read everything,&quot;  as one professional reviewer wrote) on both fronts, and interweaves the two  methods of argument admirably.  Plentiful first-person quotations -- some  from famous writers and intellectuals who speculated in financial markets  of their time -- provide solid evidence for Chancellor's argument, as well  making very entertaining reading about the personal financial activities of  figures such as Alexander Pope and Daniel DeFoe.<br />Chancellor also stakes  out his territory intellectually and academically.  This is not just a  ho-hum journalistic history book.  It is well supported with theory,  argument, and analysis.  For example, Chancellor attempts to discredit  economic historians who sit too far in the &quot;social history&quot; camp,  as well as those who sit too far in the &quot;rationality&quot; camp.  For  example, Chancellor gives the &quot;tulipmania apologists&quot;  (rational-expectations theorists who claim there was nothing irrational  about tulipmania) quite a thrashing.  On the other hand, he does draw upon  theoretical tools such as liquidity premiums and moral hazard to explain  some financial manias, and is well versed in all forms of financial  analysis.  I failed to be entirely convinced by many of Chancellor's  arguments, but nonetheless, I found them stimulating and  thought-provocative.  <br />Because &quot;financial speculation&quot;  encompasses almost all financial activity, this book encompasses enough to  be a standalone primer on the history of financial trading.<br />As an added  bonus, Chancellor is a very readable, and even clever and amusing, writer.   His occasional tongue-in-cheek remarks add life to some (necessarily) dry  discussions of thehistory of financial instruments.<br />This is an excellent  history of finance, not just of financial speculation.  Although I read  this book for pleasure, not as an &quot;investment book,&quot; it also has  some wise lessons for investing, although the comparisons of internet  stocks to Dutch tulips are by now a tired cliche (and, mercifully,  Chancellor doesn't dwell too heavily on those comparisons).	2000-07-09
US	53059456	R1GRZMKCL8HW5K	0805039546	171157936	The Place of Dead Roads: A Novel	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Twisted and beautiful novel with wonderful descriptions	This is only a little bit more coherent than Naked Lunch, but Burroughs seems to have become better at description since NL -- the descriptions of scenery, people, and everything else, are perhaps the best I've ever seen  in the English language.  Some people may be turned off by (or drawn by!)  the graphic drug use, homosexual pedophilia, etc, but that's just a  sideshow: Burroughs is a master of language and wording, and that's the big  reason to read the book.  This book is a must-read, even if only to see  someone pushing the limits of language, writing, and imagination.  See why  the Beats considered Burroughs a literary mentor.	2000-07-07
US	53059456	R2XXDEBY1YCJG5	0674328035	872257869	The Functions of the Executive: 30th Anniversary Edition	Books	5	49	54	N	N	Excellent, optimistic, human-centered management text	Outside the Barnard Society and a few scattered industrial-psychology departments, this book is, unfortunately, no longer taken very seriously.  It is used mostly as a historical piece, &quot;see how management theory  used to be,&quot; or as a foil for the arguments of competing  theories.<br />Barnard's perspective is that of human cooperation, management  by consensus, and voluntary effort.  Employees who are treated well will  work well; managers should gain respect through kindness; any workplace  conflict signals a failure of the management; and so on and so on.  He was  either an idealist (as some claim) or a cunning, cynically manipulative  defender of capitalist organization during an economic downturn (as others  claim).  He was either a genius (as some claim) or a businessman with  little formal education and professorial prtentions (as others  claim).<br />Historically speaking, Barnard's book represents a focus on the  human side of employee management, and away from the Frederick Taylor  -esque treatment of all employees as production machines.  This  &quot;softness&quot; of his has made him unpopular today -- just as his  failure to acknowledge any &quot;class conflict&quot; made him unpopular in  the 60s and 70s.<br />But Barnard is an original, not someone to be  pigeonholed into a category, and the ultimate test of a book like this is  not authorial intent, but what it does for your mind, and what it does for  you as a manager.  For me, on both counts, it has been tremendously useful.   Reading Barnard gave me powerful intellectual insights -- something I  wouldn't even hope to get in today's &quot;management books&quot; -- and  has informed the way I think about and deal with coworkers and subordinates  on a daily basis.  A very valuable read; perhaps one of the first three  books I would give an up and coming manager or entrepreneur.	2000-07-06
US	53059456	RIGSBNOL832KS	0679722920	453575878	Ratner's Star	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Great DeLillo for math/science fans	This is what DeLillo wrote after having spent a few years studying mathematics.  It is a beautiful effort, albeit a bit different from much of his other work: no terrorists, no fear of death, and none of the characters  is as memorable as the Gladney family from White Noise.  It does, however,  resemble White Noise is that it has the standard silly/almost-surreal  professorial figures, and children wise beyond their years.  DeLillo does  show his Pynchonesque side, demonstrating thorough knowledge of math and  physics; he is not just spouting catchphrases when he writes about these  things.<br />Ratner's Star is mediocre DeLillo (which is still great!) for  those not interested in math and science -- and perhaps top DeLillo for  those who are interested in math or physics.  Extra points for those  readers who were intellectually precocious as kids: you will definitely  identify with Billy, more or less.<br />The ending is wonderful, and I must  say I didn't see it coming; although as soon as I read it, I thought  &quot;how could I not have seen it coming!&quot;    That is the mark of a  well crafted novel.	2000-07-06
US	53059456	R1CLVA85BJ598V	0802132324	252236938	Christopher Durang Explains It All for You: 6 Plays	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Hilariously funny	Christopher Durang is a master of humorous theatrical dialogue and staging.  His humor feels great at first, but it will also stay in your mind for a very long time -- the jokes, although sometimes crude, are  introduced with studied subtlety and style.  This is not a cheap thrill  with a bitter aftertaste; often, long after you read or see the play, you  find yourself thinking about deeper meanings behind some of Durang's  &quot;jokes.&quot;<br />Although sex, dysfunctional families, strange nuns,  and other Durangesque props help propel the humor, it is really Durang's  brilliant dialogue and masterful presentation of scenes that is the impetus  for laughter.  A man with a dildo strapped to his forehead is not  inherently funny.  The stuffy captain of the Titanic triumphantly emerging  with a dildo strapped to his forehead IS inherently funny.  Durang has the  playwright's skill to turn A into B; if his humor were just crude sexual  references, it would fall flat.<br />This is great stuff, and always manages  to make me smile, even after many rereadings.  I just wish it were staged  more often!	2000-07-06
US	53059456	R1SM8GW7G58Y7U	0226450449	180559261	Crafting Selves: Power, Gender, and Discourses of Identity in a Japanese Workplace	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Excellent ethnography of work	This is a complex and intelligent cultural ethnography of the many-layered, multi-tensioned ideas of self and identity among female Japanese factory workers.  It is a &quot;thick description,&quot; heavy on  pondering the minutiae, and with little in the way of broad cross-cultural  comparisons; this is neither good nor bad, just Kondo's style.  The  detailed nuances she brings out are wonderful; it is rare to see such  careful attention to detail in a study of the workplace.  However, readers  rooted in traditional &quot;rational management&quot; traditions may want  to look elsewhere, as this volume takes its inspiration from anthropology  and lit-crit, not business and economics.	2000-07-06
US	53059456	RROS2DQ751D7Y	0262061414	386841794	Game Theory (MIT Press)	Books	5	76	81	N	N	Canonical game theory reference text	This is a definitive reference text.  It is not a self-study course in game theory, nor even a useful introduction.  It functions best as a brush-up source, or a reference on equilibrium refinements, for those who  already know the basics, and can work with a fairly technical presentation.   It's very good especially on screening games and Bayesian-type information  games.<br />For a more intuitive introduction to game theory, try a short  little book by David Kreps called &quot;Game Theory and Economic  Modeling.&quot;.	2000-07-04
US	53059456	R17R9S8JH7XLSH	0140152741	435955476	Mao II: A Novel	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Classic DeLillo, but accessible	I am always torn between recommending Mao II or White Noise to those who want to try some DeLillo.  Perhaps one can consider Mao II to be a watered-down White Noise: its characters and events are fleshed out more,  and it reads more like a novel than a collection of clever aphorisms.   <br />Mao II lacks the &quot;edginess&quot; of White Noise, but at the same  time, we should applaud DeLillo of not harping on the theme of  &quot;America is really consumerist&quot; for ever and ever.  A writer of  his skill can take on more challenging themes than that.  <br />So what's it  about?  It's about individuals and crowds, and the frightening equivalence  between the lone-wolf individual and the composite of crowds.  Think  repeating Mao portrait.  Think of the name of the reclusive, lone-wolf main  character: Bill Gray.  There's also stuff about art, and of course  DeLillo's ubiquitous &quot;novelists are terrorists&quot;  insinuations.<br />This is probably my second-favorite DeLillo, and the one  I'd recommend to someone looking for something like a traditional novel.   It was very enjoyable, although perhaps not as intellectually searing as  something like White Noise or (Pynchon's) Lot 49.	2000-07-03
US	53059456	R19RRSZX3HUR0A	048627053X	320431222	Notes from the Underground (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	0	5	N	N	Dark and moody, but intelligent and rewarding	It is somewhat ironic that usually the people who pick up thislittle book are going through a personal crisis.  This is probably thelast thing they need.  This is not a cheer-up book, although they may find some commiseration in the narrator's life.<br />Who is this narrator?  Like the protagonist of Dostoyevksy's -The Idiot-, he is someone who believes himself to be superior to &quot;the great mass,&quot; but who is so superior that he must live &quot;underground&quot; (much like living as an &quot;idiot&quot;). He is something of a voluntary outcast, who nevertheless manages little personal moments of stickin' it to the man...  perhaps the funniest subplot is how he plays &quot;chicken&quot; with important people who are walking down the sidewalk...<br />A Russian literary critic is rumored to have said &quot;Dostoyevsky is the nastiest Christian I've ever met.&quot; And indeed, you would be mistaken if you expected something overly life-affirming, even in an existentialist way, in this book.  It is life-affirming only in a fatalistic Russian sense, of &quot;No matter how bad it gets, we can always laugh about it.&quot; Even the one scene that is set up as a messianic, optimistic scene, turns into something ugly and spiteful.<br />Still, this novel is interesting and brilliant, and a great introduction to Dostoyevsky's psychological studies and his anti-rationalist, anti-Enlightenment crusade.  If nothing else, it shows Dostoyevsky before he wrote he had written his major novels, and before he had been sent to Siberia (an experience that made him significantly temper his anti-establishment views).	2000-07-03
US	53059456	R1LM7CWFB60CG7	0684848155	553694758	Underworld: A Novel	Books	2	3	5	N	N	DeLillo grows complacent	DeLillo is a great living writer, but, like many great writers, he seems to have gotten narcisstic and complacent in his late (successful) age.<br />Ah yes, DeLillo sold a movie option on this book.  It's great that he's become  successful, but it seems that he, as a writer, is no longer running scared  -- is no longer chasing anything, nor being chased.  This book is  monumentally self-indulgent, and attempts to tackle everything.  As we all  know, such books usually end up tackling nothing.<br />The opening scene is  great, and a couple of moments later in the book are also great, but it  doesn't have that sizzling sharpness of the other DeLillo novels I've read.   I am a little bit of a history buff, but perhaps not enough so: all the  historical cameos grew boring after a while.  Like history itself, this  novel is long, and not long in a tongue-in-cheek Laurence Sterne &quot;I am  wasting your time, dear reader!&quot; kind of way, but in a self important  DeLilloesque &quot;listen to me telling this story because I am the  cleverest writer in the world&quot; way.  <br />This is still a better book  than most pop books on the shelves today, but doesn't deliver what earlier  DeLillo novels delivered.  Perhaps his next one will be better.	2000-07-03
US	53059456	RKQOQPDEC5L65	0393320405	223246019	A Random Walk Down Wall Street; Including a Life-Cycle Guide to Personal Investing	Books	4	2	3	N	N	One of the few investment books worth reading	Concise, thorough, and fair: Malakiel lays out efficient markets theory (the economics of information), and debunks anyone who claims to have a &quot;special edge&quot; on the markets.<br />Sure, real world markets have  frictions.  The important question is not &quot;Does the real world differ  from the world of the model?&quot; but &quot;Does it differ enough to make  a difference?&quot;  Malakiel argues that it doesn't differ enough to make  a difference.<br />Some of Malakiel's examples are a bit antiquated, and  anyone with a strong math/finance background will feel as if they're  sitting in the dunce class during some of Malakiel's explanations.  And the  very last part of the book, where he gives investment recommendations,  seems to contradict the main part of his theory: he claims that some  investments (basically, contrarianism) can consistently beat the market!   Huh?<br />Overall, however, this is an extremely valuable, and even enjoyable  book.	2000-07-03
US	53059456	R3DTRJFLJ5WT31	0156155516	689518606	Cat and Mouse	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Clever, moving, insightful; instantly a classic	This is a sensitively written tale of Joachim Mahlke and his &quot;mouse&quot; (that up-and-down-bobbing Adam's apple of his) -- through the eyes of an unreliable narrator reminiscing about his youth, and life,  and morals, and how ordinary, decent people, some of them children, lived  in Hitler's Germany.  Realistic, telling, bittersweet.  Lots of little  chases and reflections: hence cat and mouse.  Often uproariously funny,  sometimes with a deeper message, sometimes just for humor.  <br />Cat and  Mouse is the most purely enjoyable book I've read in a long time.  Perhaps  not the most challenging to read (that's not always a bad thing), but  definitely the most enjoyable.<br />There's lots of subsurface musing about  war and the morality of killing... for an American, it reminds one of the  collective guilt brought about by Vietnam.  (But it is never in-your-face  war-musings a la Tim O'Brien or anyone like that.)  Yes, these teenage boys  joined the Hitler Youth and aspired to shoot at British airplanes; but can  we blame them?  And can they morally redeem themselves decades later -- and  need they?<br />A side point: I was shocked by one frequent error among  reviewers here.  How can people read this book and think that it is set in  Poland!   Its German setting is perhaps its most salient feature.  It is  set in what was then Germany, although that part of Germany became Poland  after WW2.	2000-07-01
US	53059456	R39VWTUF8KRVPA	0691034303	134179519	Game Theory for Political Scientists	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Excellent introductory text: it's as technical as you want	One of the nice things about this book is it can be as technical or mathematical as you want.  If you just want the concepts, you won't be jarred by lots of equations.  But if you like the technical aspects,  they're all there, especially in the appendix.<br />Great simple treatment of  everything from basic Nash Equilibrium to more sophisticated concepts such  as Bayesian information analysis.<br />The only potential disappointment of  this book is if you know game theory well and are looking for something  very sophisticated, this is not the book for you -- not because there's  anything wrong with this book, but because it wasn't designed for that  level.	2000-05-16
US	53059456	R3IUC0NKPFOOBC	1568493207	183823737	The Crying of Lot 49	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A postmodern classic	Well, if you're used to John Grisham or the Bronte sisters, you're probably not gonna like this book.  But read it anyway just to see what the fuss is all about.<br />This is a classic of postmodern disjointedness,  brimming with Pynchonian playfulness, recurring themes,  jokes-within-a-jokes, literary allusions, the poetry of mathematics, and  everything else you could want in a nice quick under-200pg read.<br />The text  is pretty dense, but then again, see Gravity's Rainbow if you want to see  something really dense.  I suggest starting over every time you get really  confused -- it certainly took me a few start-overs to truly appreciate this  novel.<br />Highly recommended if you like inventiveness, or novels that are  more &quot;writerly&quot; than &quot;readerly&quot; -- that give the reader  most of the burden of creating meaning.	2000-05-16
US	53059456	R14XNWUKHOWULR	0679721886	892228642	The Woman Warrior: Memoirs of a Girlhood Among Ghosts	Books	5	77	84	N	N	Challenging, rewarding read	This is a remarkably intelligent, personal account of success, failure, frustration, and identity.  No, the writing and structure are not straightforward, and yes, some of the plotline may be disturbing.  But this  is ultimately an intellectually rewarding read, and a personally  emotionally moving experience.<br />The anti-feminist backlash this novel  seems to elicit (e.g., on this review page) should be testimony to how  provocative it is, and how many assumptions it can challenge.<br />As for it  being a misrepresentation of Chinese culture, well, it's a subjective  account.  It's the culture through Maxine's eyes (and her family's eyes);  it is not meant to be an objective anthropological study.  And I did not  find it at all exoticizing.  In fact, it's a shame that MHK often gets  mentioned in the same sentence as Amy Tan -- beyond the superficial  similarity of both being Asian-American women, they have little in common.   MHK does none of the silly exoticization that AT does, and at least to me,  does not engage in the &quot;Asians must be rescued by Western  culture&quot; ideology of AT.  This is ultimately a personal,  autobiographical account, that is neither judgmental nor self-pitying.	2000-05-06
US	53059456	R3AX59JHWXV7SU	0571169341	810206933	Arcadia: A Play	Books	4	3	7	N	N	Oscar Wilde with a dash of Thomas Pynchon	An interesting play, with some great one-liners; but as in Oscar Wilde's plays, the one-liners seem to be contrived (expecting a rimshot almost),  and sometimes it's embarrassing watching Stoppard trying to be clever.  Also, the references to math and physics are a bit forced; one gets the  idea that Stoppard is operating out of his range.  Perhaps Stoppard is  trying to be Pynchon, but Pynchon had a science education and knew his  stuff.<br /><br />No matter what, this is a very entertaining piece of work,  and the characters and situations are clever and memorable.  I only  disagree with the reviewers who say this is amazingly brilliant or  profound; I simply don't see it.  Perhaps some of the themes elude me -- as  I am just an individual reading this for fun, not in a college class -- or  perhaps some of the other reviewers are reading things into the play that  Stoppard didn't intend (like maybe the other reviewer's whole thing about  the 2nd law of thermodynamics).  I wouldn't go as far as to say it's the  best or even funniest theatre of the 20th century (I still prefer  Christopher Durang's humor), but it's notable, as is most anything from  Stoppard.	1999-12-26
US	53059456	R38FGNBKSH8PMO	0805053093	270992916	The Satanic Verses	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Unexpectedly comical and enjoyable	Unfortunately, this book's reputation precedes it.  I came to it expecting a dry, deadly serious text on Islamic theology.  In fact, the novel is a  lighthearted delight.  Rushdie is a master storyteller, punner, joker, and  all-around wit.  The renderings of Bombay street English are wonderful.   The criticisms of Islam -- and they are not even so obvious as to be vulgar  -- don't even come up all that often.  On the one hand, Rushdie ensured  himself a lifetime of fame and notoriety by having the Ayatollah's death  warrant issued against him; on the other hand, perhaps the book's notoriety  prevents people coming to it with a fresh mind, for an enjoyable,  entertaining, thought-provoking read, which is exactly what it offers.	1999-12-24
US	53059456	RM38WILW1F7YX	0156399954	914404739	Headbirths: Or the Germans Are Dying Out	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Rollicking hilarious postmodern German wit	This is Gunter Grass exploring large themes such as fulfillment, joy, and the nature of society, using a farcical tale of a German couple traveling  to Asia on a &quot;reality tour,&quot; (Grass wrote this in 1979!   amazing!) and the leitmotif of human reproduction they encounter there.   Well, it's not actually about the couple, but about the filmmaker who  creates this couple for his movie -- but you'll find out more when you read  it.  A great, fun, short, one-sitting read.  Grass has a wonderful talent  for setting scenes and picturing the absurd.  This is not your father's  German novel.	1999-12-22
