US	53059603	R1FQSWEXX69AIN	0192804243	689014669	Atheism: A Very Short Introduction	Books	5	101	113	N	N	A wonderful introduction to naturalistic atheism	I had not heard of _Atheism: A Very Short Introduction_ prior to receiving it as a gift from a friend. As I read the book, however, I quickly realized that Julian Baggini had written a masterful introduction to atheism, one that is sure to become a classic for years to come. Here is the table of contents:<br />Preface<BR>List of Illustrations<BR>1. What Is Atheism?<BR>2. The Case for Atheism<BR>3. Atheist Ethics<BR>4. Meaning and Purpose<BR>5. Atheism in History<BR>6. Against Religion?<BR>7. Conclusion<br />References and further reading<BR>Index<br />In chapter 1, Baggini explains his primary purpose in _Atheism_ is to \\"provide a positive case for atheism,\\" which he defines as \\"the belief that there is no God or gods\\" (p. 3). As Baggini correctly explains, atheism is not materialism, and Baggini makes it clear that he rejects materialism. Instead, most atheism is rooted in \\"the broader claims of naturalism\\" (p. 7). Since naturalism *entails* atheism, any evidence for naturalism is automatically evidence for naturalism. (The converse is not necessarily true, however.) In Baggini's words, \\"atheism is essentially a form of naturalism and so its main evidential base is the evidence for naturalism\\" (p. 16). Why is this  significant? Because the evidential case for naturalism is much broader than the evidential case for atheism. Thus, Baggini's case for atheism has a far greater explanatory scope than the cases found in recent defenses of atheism by such scholars as Martin, Rowe, Le Poidevin, Smith, and Mackie, who do not defend atheism by appealing to the case for naturalism.<br />In chapter 2, Baggini sets forth his case for atheism. It includes (i) the absence of evidence of the supernatural; (ii) the physical dependence of the mind upon the brain; (iii) the simplicity of naturalism compared to supernatural alternatives, including theism; (iv) religious diversity; and (v) the problem of evil. Baggini concludes that atheism is the best explanation for these facts.<br />In chapter 3, Baggini discusses the relationship between atheism and ethics. His refutation of the idea that moral laws require a moral lawgiver is excellent. As he puts it, morality \\"is the basis upon which just laws are enacted and enforced; it is not constituted by the laws themselves\\" (p. 38). Thus, if we think of God as a moral lawgiver, God's laws will be moral only if \\"they conform to moral principles which are independent of God\\" (p. 38). Baggini also argues that an atheist ethics can combine features of Aristotelian, Kantian, and Utilitarian ethics. <br />In chapter 4, he explains a related issue, the relationship between atheism, meaning, and purpose. He refutes the idea that God is a necessary or sufficient condition for a meaningful life. As Baggini points out, just because a creator gives a purpose to its creature hardly makes the purpose significant *for the creature* (p. 59). Ultimately, life's ultimate purpose must be something which is intrinsically valuable. That something, he argues, is life itself. Moreover, immortality isn't required for a meaningful life, either. On the contrary, the inevitability of death is \\"what makes life so valuable in the first place\\" (p. 71).<br />In chapter 5, Baggini discusses atheism in history. Specifically, he discusses the emergence of atheism in Western civilization, as well as the claim that atheism was responsible for 20th century totalitarian atrocities. On the latter, he discusses the relationship between, atheism, Nazi Germany, and Soviet communism. Regarding Nazi Germany, Baggini correctly mentions Nazi Germany was not an atheist state. Moreover, \\"Nazi doctrines themselves were also at odds with the kind of rational naturalism of traditional atheism\\" (p. 84). As for Soviet communism, Baggini points out that the history of the Soviet Union was not somehow the consequence of atheist beliefs; what happened in Russia was partially the result of *militant* atheism. Atheism as such does not entail militant atheism, and Baggini argues against militant atheism throughout his book.<br />In chapter 6, Baggini addresses the claim that atheism is against religion. Atheism as such is only opposed to the truth of religion; it does not entail hostility towards religious believers. Baggini then briefly considers some arguments for God's existence, including the cosmological, teleological, and ontological arguments. Finally, he criticizes militant atheism.<br />In chapter 7, Baggini acknowledges some of the omissions of his book. He also talks about humanism as a type of positive atheism.<br />Perhaps the main fault that I find with Baggini's discussion of the case for naturalism, as well as his rebuttal to the case against it, lies in its incompleteness. Given Baggini's emphasis on atheism as a form of naturalism, it is surprising he did not also include evolution or the biological role of pain and pleasure. Moreover, his failure to mention divine hiddenness as evidence for atheism is odd. On the theistic side, I was struck by how Baggini neglected the so-called 'fine-tuning' argument and instead discussed merely the watchmaker argument, which even most theists reject.<br />The other important fault which I find with Baggini's book are his references to the idea of 'atheist ethics' or 'atheist morality,' as if there were clearly one atheistic approach to ethics. Since the only ethical implication of atheism is the falsity of the divine command theory, it seems to me this is a non sequitur. Baggini's discussion of an Aristotelian-Kantian-Utilitarian hybrid approach is fine as far as it goes, but he says nothing about the obvious objection that atheists have no basis for selecting that ethical theory over any other secular ethical theory.<br />Despite these two faults, I think that this book does an excellent job in introducing atheism. In particular, I am especially pleased with its emphasis on the case for naturalism. I highly recommend this book to anyone interested in atheism.	2004-03-08
US	53059603	RJVMMYDUF3JK5	0534557376	439888480	Choice and Chance: An Introduction to Inductive Logic	Books	5	35	36	N	Y	Good Introduction to Inductive Logic	This book, in its 4th edition, was one of the first textbooks on<BR>inductive logic I read. Here is the table of contents:<br />1. Basics of Logic<BR>2. Probability and Inductive Logic<BR>3. The Traditional Problem of Induction<BR>4. The Goodman Paradox and the New Riddle of Induction<BR>5. Mill's Methods of Experimental Inquiry and the Nature of Causality<BR>6. The Probability Calculus<BR>7. Kinds of Probability<BR>8. Probability and Scientific Inductive Logic<BR>Answers to Selected Exercises<BR>Index<br />I did not read this textbook as a textbook for a class, but instead read it independently. I also did all of the exercises in the entire book, and used the answers at the end of the book to verify my answers whenever possible. Overall, I was very pleased with the textbook. The explanations were mostly clear, and the progression of topics from the simple to complex was appropriate. <br />I have two minor complaints about the book. The first regards chapter 7, where Skyrms discusses, among other topics, the chance function as well as the von Neumann-Morgenstern theory of utility. I don't know if this is a statement about the textbook or the reader, but I felt the explanations of those two topics were less clear than other sections of the book. I was able to compensate for that by doing Internet searches on those two topics, however, so it wasn't a major inconvenience.<br />The second complaint regards the answers to exercises. As the other reviewer noted, the back of the book is incorrect when it states there are &quot;completely worked out solutions at the back of the book for every other problem.&quot; Off the top of my head, I would say that is probably true 80-85% of the time, with most of the exceptions occurring towards the end of the book. This is unfortunate, since the most complex exercises are naturally found towards the end of the book. In particular, the exercise for section VII.6 (on chance) on p. 150 is enormously complicated, and cries out for an answer. There should have been a second exercise for that section, so that at least one exercise would have had a fully worked out solution in the back of the book.<br />Despite these two complaints, however, this is still an excellent book. Overall, Skyrms has provided his readers and students with a helpful introduction to inductive logic.	2004-02-22
US	53059603	R1ZMOUOQXG2O9H	013540021X	231454684	Logic (Prentice-hall Foundations of Philosophy Series)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	The Best Book on Inductive Logic	This is book is the best book on inductive logic I have seen. It's unfortunate, therefore, that it has gone out of print. Salmon describes the many different types of inductive arguments, including induction by enumeration, statistical syllogism, analogy, and the hypothetico-deductive method. He also provides a good introduction to inductive fallacies, including insufficient statistics, biased statistics, the fallacy of incomplete evidence, misuses of the argument from authority, and causal fallacies. If you read only one book on inductive logic, read this book!	2003-10-30
US	53059603	RB9X15LDCC7PC	1573226254	864394102	Woe Is I: The Grammarphobe's Guide to Better English in Plain English	Books	5	1	3	N	Y	Good, Funny Introduction to English Grammar	This book was recommended to me a few years ago by an English professor. I wish I had bought the book back then. O'Conner provides an introduction to English grammar that is not only useful, but often funny. Moreover, unlike many books on English grammar, O'Conner manages to avoid using technical jargon. I highly recommend O'Conner's book.	2003-10-30
US	53059603	R3EY61D6ZPMSW8	1573929875	257971101	Atheism, Morality, and Meaning (Prometheus Lecture Series)	Books	4	40	43	N	N	Welcome addition to literature on religion & morality	Most of the recent literature on the relationship between religion and morality is written by theists. It is rare to find anything in print by an atheist on *contemporary* moral arguments for God's existence. It is even less common to find an atheist who discusses such arguments without denying moral realism or moral objectivism. Michael Martin's book is a welcome exception to this trend. Martin responds to moral arguments for God's existence *as a moral realist and as a moral objectivist*. <br />Martin does not just defend atheism against moral apologetics; he goes on the offensive, presenting an affirmative case for an atheistic moral realism. He also makes many interesting points about the idea that Christianity (and not just God in general) is the foundation of ethics, and offers a detailed discussion of the implications of Christianity and naturalism for the meaning of life. <br />The breadth of the territory covered by Martin is impressive; I know of no other book on the market that covers such a variety of metaethical issues from an atheistic perspective. Anyone interested in the relationship between naturalism, theism, and morality will find Martin's book useful. Moreover, unlike many books on metaethics, Martin's book is not highly technical, which helps to make it accessible to the lay reader.<br />However, the book does have its limitations. Many nonphilosophers will find Martin's presentation and defense of Ideal Observer Theory counterintuitive and unconvincing. Martin says nothing about the atheistic justification for adopting the moral point of view. And Martin says little or nothing about some of the influential moral arguments advanced by theists. For example, he says nothing about Robert Adams's work on the social nature of obligation and very little about George Mavrodes's argument about the \\"queerness of morality.\\" In this sense, Martin's discussion is incomplete.<br />Nevertheless, despite these shortcomings, this book would make a useful addition to the library of anyone interested in the relationship between atheism and morality.	2003-04-09
US	53059603	R3EXCQU9CF95W9	0300087152	382088109	Humanity: A Moral History of the Twentieth Century	Books	5	8	9	N	N	The consequences of ethical ideas as documented in history	This book is an absolute must-read for anyone interested in moral philosophy, moral psychology, or moral *history*. Glover's ideas are so interesting--and the details he discusses are so shocking--I found this book impossible to put down. <br />Jonathan Glover has written a highly readable history of the twentieth century that focuses on atrocities. While Glover, a moral philosopher and Director of the Centre of Medical Law and Ethics at King's College in London, uses his philosophical expertise to provide a very philosophically-informed history, his knowledge of twentieth century history is formidable. The result is a book that, as far as I know, is absolutely unique in the literature: a history of the twentieth century from a distinctively *moral* perspective. Glover discusses the ethical ideas used to justify these atrocities, and the psychological conditions that made evil actions. <br />For those of us who have a background in moral philosophy, this made for some very interesting reading as he applied age-old theoretical arguments to concrete historical events and persons. To cite just one example: commenting on the kind of life Stalin lived, Glover notes a parallel with an argument made by Socrates. Glover writes, Stalin's \\"life gives striking support to what Socrates said about the life of an immoral person not being enviable. His bitterness, paranoia and fear make it hard to imagine anyone else wanting to be Stalin\\" (p. 250).  This type of historico-philosophical insight can be found throughout Glover's book. <br />In addition to the historical and philosophical aspect of Glover's work,  there is also a psychological component.  Throughout the book, Glover discusses what he calls the 'moral resources' -- certain human needs and tendencies that work against selfish behavior.  Glover presents convincing evidence that shows how the suppression of moral resources contributed to the tragedies of the last century.  This, in turn, allows Glover to offer suggestionson how to cultivate the moral resources in everyone, so that we can try to avoid the atrocities of the last century.<br />One final comment: Glover's history is not comprehensive, nor was it intended to be (as he makes clear on p. 2). Glover focuses on several of the major atrocities of the twentieth century, including the Holocaust, Hiroshama, the Gulag, Cambodia, Yugoslavia, and Rwanda. While his list of subjects is far from comprehensive, Glover has identified themes in human nature and in ethics that probably apply to the events that were omitted.	2002-02-06
US	53059603	R3TFCGQ7ER2P2V	1877733075	163121156	Losing Faith in Faith: From Preacher to Atheist	Books	5	11	20	N	N	Arsenal for skeptics and direct challenge to believers	After 19 years of evangelical preaching, missionizing, Evangelism and Christian songwriting, Dan Barker &quot;threw out the bathwater and discovered there is no baby there.&quot; Barker describes the intellectual and psychological struggle required to move from fundamentalism to freethought. Sections on biblical morality, the historicity of Jesus, bible contradictions, the unbelievable resurrection, and much more. This book is an arsenal for skeptics and a direct challenge to believers.	2001-12-03
US	53059603	R18B5XC49UK3WS	0879755199	617030193	Why Be Moral?	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Interesting collection of essays on the question, "Why Be Mo	Kai Nielsen is well-known for his work in the field of ethics. WHY BE MORAL? is a collection of some of Nielsen's most influential and useful essays on the basis or grounding of morality itself. <br />One word of caution, though: contrary to what the back cover says, this book is not written in a \\"nontechnical style.\\" Nielsen uses A LOT of philosophical jargon; this book is probably inaccessible by anyone who has not completed a college-level course on ethics.	2001-11-27
US	53059603	R1W2QQDYMMST8F	0847697614	18536685	Viable Values: A Study of Life as the Root and Reward of Morality	Books	5	53	54	N	Y	Rigorous answer to the ultimate question, "Why Be Moral?"	Why be moral?  Anyone who has ever done any serious reading on the subject has probably been disappointed with how most writers respond to that question.  However, in her latest book, VIABLE VALUES, philosopher Tara Smith gives one of the most convincing, rigorous, and readable answers to the question I have ever read.  As someone who is NOT an Objectivist or a follower of Ayn Rand, Smith has given me much to think about.<br />Tara Smith defends the metaethical theory known as egoism, which is the view that morality requires you pursue your own self-interest. However, as Smith convincingly shows, many of the traditional objections to egoism are based on misunderstandings or, more often, caricatures of what egoism entails. Egoism is incompatible with hedonism, materialism, and subjectivism; an act may be pleasurable or may make a person happy and yet not be in a person's interest. Anyone committed to pursuing their rational self-interest must adopt ethical principles to guide them through life. Moreover, though it may initially seem that an egoist would be in competition with everyone else, Smith convincingly shows how this is not the case. By grounding morality on life as the source of value, what is in a person's interest is \\"flourishing,\\" to live one's life in a life-promoting manner. The egoist benefits when other people flourish. <br />Perhaps Smith's most controversial claim is her argument rational self-interests never conflict. I haven't decided if I am convinced of that yet, but if she is right then egoism *is* universalizable, thus avoiding one of the traditional objections to egoism.<br />At any rate, it appears that Smith has answered all of the traditional objections to egoism as an ethical theory.  Whether Smith is ultimately correct remains to be seen, however it is clear that Smith has provided rigorous, prima facie answers to those objections.  I strongly recommend VIABLE VALUES to anyone interested in the foundations of morality.	2001-11-26
US	53059603	R3L97KOB27IQ0E	0310209307	938771460	The Case for Christ:  A Journalist's Personal Investigation of the Evidence for Jesus	Books	3	394	504	N	N	Excellent apologetics but horrible journalism	I wish Amazon.com didn't force reviewers to rate all books with 1-5 stars.  Since I was forced to rate Lee Strobel's book _Case for Christ_ I gave it 3 stars, but that's not really how I feel.  As an introductory apologetics book I would give it 5 stars, but as a work by a journalist I would give it 1 star.  Read on to find out why.<br />Lee Strobel is an ex-investigative reporter for the Chicago Tribune who describes himself as a &quot;former spiritual skeptic.&quot; Using his skills as a former legal affairs journalist, Strobel set out to &quot;retrace and expand upon the spiritual journey ... [he] took for nearly two years.&quot; The Case for Christ is a summary of Strobel's interviews with thirteen leading Evangelical apologists, including Craig Blomberg, Bruze Metzger, Edwin Yamauchi, Ben Witherington III, and William Lane Craig.<br />In light of Strobel's frequent reminders that he used to be a hard-nosed, skeptical journalist, I skimmed the table of contents and index to see which critics of Christianity he interviewed. In so doing, I discovered a glaring deficiency in Strobel's journalism: Strobel did not interview any critics of Christian apologetics, even though he attacks such individuals in his book. For example, Strobel devotes an entire chapter to his interview of Greg Boyd (an outspoken faultfinder of the Jesus Seminar), yet Strobel never interviewed a single member of the Jesus Seminar itself! Likewise, he repeatedly criticizes Michael Martin, author of Case Against Christianity, but he never bothered to get Martin's responses to those attacks. This hardly constitutes balanced reporting on Strobel's part; indeed, on this basis, one is tempted to dismiss the entire book.<br />Nonetheless, I was compelled to review _The Case for Christ_, for two reasons. First, it comes with a number of endorsements from high-profile Evangelicals. Second, Strobel interviewed a number of high-caliber Evangelical apologists, many of whom are worthy of consideration in and of themselves. Thus _The Case for Christ_ constitutes a pseudo-anthology of Evangelical scholarship.<br />I have reviewed Strobel's book in detail on my website, but here I will summarize its major strengths and weaknesses. _Case for Christ_ is a creative, well-written contribution to Christian apologetics. Moreover, Strobel is to be commended for summarizing the work of so many leading apologists for Evangelical Christianity in such a compact and easy-to-read format. Yet Strobel did not interview any critics of Evangelical apologetics. He sometimes refutes at great length objections<BR>not made by the critics (e.g., the claim that Jesus was mentally insane); more often, he doesn't address objections the critics do make (e.g., the unreliability of human memory, that non-Christian historians do not provide any independent confirmation for the deity of Jesus, etc.) Perhaps this will be a welcome feature to people who already believe Christianity but have no idea why they believe it. For those of us who are primarily interested in the truth, however, we want to hear both sides of the story.	2001-09-11
US	53059603	R1D3E2KH5DLV1U	0785243631	698530272	The New Evidence That Demands A Verdict Fully Updated To Answer The Questions Challenging Christians Today	Books	1	81	181	N	N	Is Josh McDowell in Denial?	According to the cover, volumes I and II of _Evidence_ have been &quot;fully updated in one volume to answer questions challenging Christians in the 21st Century.&quot; However, with all the charity in the world, I can't imagine how that statement could possibly be true. Many readers will recognize me as the editor of a comprehensive Internet rebuttal to Volume I of McDowell's _Evidence_. Yet McDowell completely ignored our criticisms in his &quot;fully updated&quot; _New Evidence_. This cannot be due to ignorance. I have personally tried to correspond with Mr. McDowell twice; each time I received no acknowledgement. Likewise, I know that many Christians have urged McDowell to respond to our critique, for they have written me telling me so! Clearly, McDowell has no obligation whatsoever to communicate with me or to answer our critique. But he cannot claim that his book has been &quot;fully updated&quot; when he ignores a direct and comprehensive rebuttal to it. <br />Likewise, I expected McDowell to include a direct rebuttal to the major claims of the Jesus Seminar, but all I found was one brief chapter--a mere 11 pages--that was too brief to be of any real use to anyone. Even if the intended audience for McDowell's book were only committed Christians, this is still somewhat puzzling. Even Christians might want direct answers to the specific historical claims of the Jesus Seminar. If I were a Christian, I would expect to find such information in McDowell's book and would be disappointed when I realized it was missing.<br />In short, I don't think this book accomplishes what it claims to do. And I can think of better books, written from an Evangelical perspective, which do accomplish those same aims. Even if I were an Evangelical, I'm afraid I wouldn't recommend this book to anyone.	2001-09-10
US	53059603	RK2JJBHYRKQRG	0802845541	339989651	The Moral Interpretation of Religion (Reason and Religion)	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Excellent chapter on moral arguments for theism	This is an interesting book by respected philosopher Peter Byrne (editor of the prestigious academic journal, RELIGIOUS STUDIES). Byrne discusses 'the moral interpretation of religion,&quot; the view that &quot;morality provides the anchor for belief in transcendent, sacred reality and, consequently, provides the means for interpreting belief in a religious ultimate.&quot; This book is not sympathetic to the view that morality needs a personal God as its foundation, though Byrne is equally willing to criticize secular ethics when appropriate.  Byrne argues (1) that if the foundation of morality is a personal God, then the autonomy of morality is undermined. (2) When theists appeal to moral arguments for theism, they are open to the counterargument that the problem of evil is a reason for favoring atheism over theism.  According to Byrne, the argument from evil is stronger evidence for atheism than the moral argument is for theism.  <br />Of special interest to me was the book's second chapter, which focuses exclusively on an oft-neglected topic: the various moral arguments for theism. In that chapter, Byrne states a number of objections to moral arguments for God's existence. (Ironically, most of those objections have NOT appeared in atheistic literature in the philosophy of religion!) Along the way, Byrne manages to discuss the following topics:<br />* the Euthyphro dilemma, <BR>* Robert Adams' modified divine command theory, <BR>* Linda Zagzebski's claim that without God we must become moral skeptics, <BR>* the suggestion that secular morality is deficient because it lacks a proper motivational background to pursue the moral good<br />In short, I would say that chapter 2 alone justifies purchasing the book.  If you have an interest in moral arguments for the existence of God, then you will definitely want to add this book to your library.	2001-09-10
US	53059603	R3B6XPJZS6D3IT	1573921238	298902835	Critiques of God: Making the Case Against Belief in God	Books	4	8	9	N	Y	Hard-hitting anthology of atheist essays	_Critiques of God_ is a hard-hitting, comprehensive anthology of essays by leading atheist philosophers.  My only complaint is that Prometheus Books should have updated this book to reflect recent developments in the philosophy of religion since the book's original publication in 1976 (e.g., the kalam cosmological argument, the fine-tuning argument, the evidential argument from evil, etc.).	2001-09-10
US	53059603	RHSNOGJ0CM3QS	1573921114	326665767	The Big Domino in the Sky: And Other Atheistic Tales	Books	3	5	6	N	N	A Fictional Introduction to Atheism	For years, Christians have promoted the fictional works of C.S. Lewis (e.g., &quot;The Chronicles of Narnia&quot;, &quot;The Screwtape Letters&quot;, etc.) as an entertaining and insightful presentation of the Christian worldview. Thanks to respected philosopher Michael Martin, atheists finally have a fictional book of their own. The Big Domino in the Sky and Other Atheistic Tales is a fun and thought-provoking collection of short stories in the form of science fiction, historical fiction, and fantasy.	2001-09-09
US	53059603	R2HMYJ8J2T5YZV	0877229430	194402811	Atheism: A Philosophical Justification	Books	4	71	78	N	N	VERY comprehensive but dated introduction to atheism	This book is a HUGE overview of the different types of atheism.  Overall, I think Martin's book is an excellent introduction to atheism. I particularly enjoyed his refutation of various theistic answers to the argument from evil. Unfortunately, I cannot report that I enthusiastically endorse every feature of this book. Here's why:<br />First, Martin creates unnecessary problems for himself by trying to argue BOTH that theism is meaningless AND that if theism were meaningful, it is false. I am very familiar with Martin's Internet essay, \\"Positive Atheism and the Meaninglessness of Theism,\\" where he explains that his defense of both negative and positive atheism is a \\"fall-back\\" position. However, Martin's defense of the claim, \\"theism is factually meaningfulness,\\" is unconvincing. (Even most nontheists believe that theism is meaningful!) Moreover, Martin's \\"fall-back\\" strategy is a poor one. By writing such a huge discussion of arguments for and against the existence of God, it sure *appears* that Martin can think of ways in which the existence of God might be confirmed or disconfirmed. In other words, despite the fact that Martin was using a \\"fall-back\\" strategy, by the very nature of the issue Martin's fall-back strategy undermines his claim that theism is factually meaningfulness.<br />Second, given that his book was first published 10 years ago, it is now starting to become dated. Martin's book lacks a discussion of several new evidential arguments for atheism developed and defended since 1991. John Schellenberg has defended the highly influential atheological argument from divine hiddenness. (Indeed, this argument is so powerful that even Christian philosophers are taking it seriously: witness the forthcoming publication of Howard-Snyder's and Moser's anthology on divine hiddenness.) Martin's book is missing other important evidential atheological arguments as well, including Michael Tooley's argument from physical minds, Paul Draper's argument about combining evolution with the problem of evil, Draper's argument from the biological role of pain and pleasure, and religious confusion. Likewise, on the theistic side, Martin's book says nothing about recent sophisticated defenses of so-called 'intelligent design' theory.<br />Third, I doubt that Martin's critique of moral arguments for theism will satisfy anyone except atheist philosophers, given the brevity of the discussion. If morality can be objective without God, Martin needs to say more about the matter than he does. And moral objectivists will not be impressed by Martin's 4-sentence (hypothetical?) dismissal of moral objectivism (which, I suppose, is another one of Martin's \\"fall-back\\" strategies.)<br />Overall, I think Michael Martin's _Atheism_ can be a useful addition to a person's library, so long as he or she is aware of its limitations. I hope that Martin revises his book so that these limitations are removed.	2001-09-09
US	53059603	R2V94WP64AZL9V	0534178324	303705869	Ethics: Discovering Right and Wrong (Philosophy)	Books	5	12	14	N	Y	Excellent introduction to ethical theory!	Readers familiar with ethical literature will notice that the title of Pojman's book is similar to that of the late J.L. Mackie's book on ethics, _Ethics: Inventing Right and Wrong_. The differences in titles reflect the differences in opinion among the two authors: Mackie was a relativist while Pojman is an objectivist.  Despite Pojman's rejection of relativism, though, he does an admirable job of presenting both sides fairly.  He also writes in a clear and conversational way, making this introductory text accessible to everyone.  Finally, his book is comprehensive; it includes a discussion of egoism, self-interest, and altuism; the question, &quot;Why should I be moral?&quot;; religion and ethics; and metaethics.	2001-09-09
US	53059603	RS0MM1KNEFHCS	0155013084	208829615	Morality and the Meaning of Life: An Introduction to Ethical Theory	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Yet another excellent introduction to ethical theory!	I first learned about this text when it was recommended to me by Quentin Smith (Professor of Philosophy, Western Michigan University). I am very grateful for the recommendation, for I have learned much from Professor Ellin's helpful introduction.  Here is the table of contents:<br />Preface<BR>1.  An Introduction to Moral Theory<BR>PART I: SUBSTANTIALLY CONCEPTUAL ISSUES<BR>2.  Challenges to Ethics: Relativism<BR>3.  Challenges to Ethics: Egoism<BR>4.  The Foundations of Ethics<BR>5.  Moral Facts<BR>PART II: SUBSTIANTIALLY NORMATIVE ISSUES<BR>6.  Lying<BR>7.  Good Character<BR>8.  Utilitarianism<BR>9.  Kant: Evil as Irrationality<BR>10.  The Meaning of Life<BR>Glossary<BR>List of Abbreviations<BR>Index<br />I found chapters 4 and 10 to be helpful discussions of topics that are sometimes, if not often, omitted from texts of this type. In chapter 4, Ellin discusses, among other things, the relationship between religion and ethics. In chapter 10, Ellin discusses the question of the meaning of life, including the implications of death, repetitive pointlessness, ultimate insignificance, absurdity for &quot;big picture&quot; meaning and also for morality.<br />Along with Pojman's _Ethics: Discovering Right and Wrong_ (3rd. ed.), Ellin's text offers an excellent college-level introduction to ethics.	2001-09-09
US	53059603	R1TNKUM6YZ4W3V	0879755520	962250175	Ethics Without God	Books	2	20	34	N	N	Weak Defense of Ethics Without God	2 stars<br />Weak Defense of Ethics Without God<br />In Ethics Without God, Kai Nielsen forcefully refutes the myth that one cannot be moral without believing in God. However, that is also not very interesting, for theistic philosophers generally would agree with him. Instead, theistic philosophers argue that only theism can (1) explain the fact that objective moral values exist, and (2) offer a reason for behaving morally. Unfortunately, while Nielsen does provide a minimal discussion of the latter claim, his discussion of the former claim is<BR>virtually nonexistent.  ...	2001-09-09
US	53059603	R373QKCCW9BCZ	006066861X	787251755	Putting Away Childish Things	Books	5	18	22	N	N	Readable intro to liberal xtianity on Church doctrines	Uta Ranke-Heinemann is living proof that a person can be a theist *and* a freethinker.  According to the back cover of the book, she &quot;was the first woman in the world to hold a chair of Catholic theology (1970) and the first to lose it--because she questioned the virgin birth (1987).&quot;  In PUTTING AWAY CHILDISH THINGS, Ranke-Heinemann systematically refutes many traditional teachings of the Christian church, and she does so in a very readable way.   Here is the table of contents:<br />Foreword<BR> Introduction<BR> 1.  Luke's Christmas Fairy Tale<BR> 2.  Matthew's Fairy Tale of Jesus' Childhood<BR> 3.  The Virgin Mother<BR> 4.  The Angels<BR> 5.  Jesus' Genealogies<BR> 6.  Miraculous Fairy Tales<BR> 7.  Good Friday<BR> 8.  The Fairy Tale of Judas the Traitor<BR> 9.  Easter<BR> 10.  The Ascension<BR> 11.  Pentecost<BR> 12.  The Fairy Tale of Acts<BR> 13.  Peter in Rome?<BR> 14.  The Apocrypha<BR> 15.  Forgeries and False Authors<BR> 16.  Hell<BR> 17.  Jesus and the Dead Sea Scrolls<BR> 18.  Redemption by Execution<BR> Afterword<BR> Index<br />I agree with the first reviewer's assessment that liberal Christians and skeptics will love the book, while conservatives will hate it. I also agree that Ranke-Heinemann spent very little space actually discussing what &quot;Jesus' real message actually was.&quot;  But I would add that she spent even less space discussing WHY we should have faith in Jesus, once we have stripped away so many of the traditional church doctrines as &quot;fairly tales&quot; (p. 296)?  To make an analogy, consider the life of the 'historical Abraham Lincoln.'  Once we strip away the mythology, there are still good, authentic ethical principles left over and I can subjectively find meaning in my life by applying those principles.  But I don't have faith 'in' Abraham Lincoln.  And I certainly don't pray to him!  It is unclear why we should view the Jesus of liberal Christianity any differently. But don't let this objection detract you from reading the book. On the contrary, I highly recommend it!	2001-01-13
US	53059603	R340227GKO76ZB	0802801269	416188986	Risen Indeed: Making Sense of the Resurrection	Books	4	18	21	N	N	Interesting, sophisticated defense of Jesus' resurrection	Although Stephen T. Davis is a professor of philosophy, he appears to know the resurrection narratives as well as any Biblical scholar. In this comprehensive treatment of the resurrection, Davis addresses a wide variety of issues, including miracles, critical history, the concept of resurrection, the empty tomb story, dualism, physicalism, immortality, and apologetics.  Along the way, he presents a sophisticated defense of the orthodox position against a number of objections.  But Davis does more than just answer objections to Christian belief in the resurrection. He also presents what he calls a &quot;soft apologetic&quot; for the resurrection.  What this means is that, unlike some apologists, Davis is NOT trying to show that nonbelief in the resurrection is irrational.  Rather, he is  simply trying to show that, from a supernaturalist perspective, belief in the resurrection is rational.<br />I, for one, am happy to accept that, for certain supernaturalists in certain epistemic circumstances, belief in the resurrection can be rational.  But I also happen to think (and perhaps Davis would agree) that, for other persons in other epistemic circumstances, nonbelief in the resurrection can be rational.  I am not just talking about naturalists here.  Suppose we put aside all worries about the existence of God and the problem of miracles.  Assume that there is a God who performs miracles from time to time.  The crucial question is whether the resurrection is one of those miracles.  In other words, did Jesus really rise from the dead?  <br />As part of his defense of an affirmative answer to that question, Davis argues in favor of the empty tomb story.  But it seems to me that his discussion is incomplete, for his defense of the *burial* of Jesus is incomplete.  Davis's defense of the burial story consists almost exclusively of the argument that it is highly unlikely that Joseph of Arimathea is a Christian invention.  But one can agree that Joseph of Arimathea was a real,historical individual without accepting all of the details of the Markan burial story (e.g., that Jesus was buried permanently in Joseph's tomb, etc.).  And the *details* of Jesus' burial are crucial to arguments for the empty tomb, for the details have enormous implications about whether Jesus' followers knew the location of Jesus' tomb.  If Jesus' followers did not know the location of the tomb, then the case for the empty tomb (and, by extension, the case for the resurrection) is greatly undermined.  (For more information, see my forthcoming paper on the Secular Web about the empty tomb story.)  Unfortunately, as far as I can tell, Davis did not address such details in his book.  So Davis's argument is, at best, incomplete.  <br />Thus, even on the assumption that there exists a God capable of raising Jesus from the dead, I still see no reason to believe that the resurrection actually happened. Nevertheless, I enjoyed the book and found it very helpful. In particular, I found Davis's chapter on bodily resurrection to be among the most helpful chapters in the entire book. Anyone interested in the historicity of the resurrection will definitely want to become familiar with Davis's book.	2001-01-10
US	53059603	R346CA55VHDZ2A	019826383X	254112768	Theism, Atheism, and Big Bang Cosmology (Clarendon Paperbacks)	Books	5	18	21	N	N	Great resource on (a)theological implications of cosmology!	According to Big Bang cosmology, the universe began to exist about fifteen billion years ago with an explosion called `the Big Bang'.  But was this explosion created by God, or did it occur without cause? In Part I, Christian philosopher William Lane Craig defends the theistic interpretation of Big Bang cosmology.  In Part II, atheist philosopher Quentin Smith defends the atheistic interpretation.  Part III contains Craig's and Smith's interpretations of Stephen Hawking's cosmology, and its implications for the existence of God.<br />An excellent scholarly resource for anyone interested in the debate over Big Bang cosmology.  Readers unfamiliar with Big Bang Theory may wish to consult other works before reading this one.	2001-01-03
US	53059603	R21MUKIYH8FSXE	0822102080	588450138	Philosophy of Religion: An Introduction	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Excellent, balanced, and concise intro to phil. of religion	The first edition of Rowe's introductory text, PHILOSOPHY OF RELIGION, was one of my textbooks as an undergraduate.  Rowe's presentation of the issues is great for beginners.  I was also impressed by the balance in his treatment.  This was nowhere more evident than in his discussion of the problem of evil: although Rowe pioneered the influential 'evidential' form of the argument from evil for atheism, he carefully and fairly lays out the issues in the debate over that argument.<br />I highly recommend the book to anyone interested in the phil. of religion.	2001-01-03
US	53059603	R3OMNE2FMCR7TV	1851681132	792108517	Resurrection Reconsidered	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Useful Intro to NT Scholarship on the Resurrection	This books is a useful and interesting introduction to what contemporary NT scholarship has to say about Jesus' resurrection, including its importance in Christian theology, its historicity, and the perspectives of other faiths.  Here is the table of contents:<br />Preface<BR> Chapter 1.  The Resurrection in Contemporary New Testament Scholarship by John M.G. Barclay<BR> Chapter 2.  The Resurrection in Contemporary Systematic Theology by Gareth Jones<BR> Chapter 3.  The Baseless Fabric of a Vision by Michael Goulder<BR> Chapter 4.  History and the Reality of the Resurrection by Wolfhart Pannenberg<BR> Chapter 5.  The Resurrection of Christ: Hope for the World by Jurgen Moltmann<BR> Chapter 6.  Between the Cherubim: The Empty Tomb and the Empty Throne by Rowan Williams<BR> Chapter 7.  Christ's Body in its Fullness: Resurrection and the Lives of Saints by David McCarthy Matzko<BR> Chapter 8.  Living in Christ: Story, Resurrection, and Salvation by Gerard Loughlin<BR> Chapter 9.  Sexuality and the Resurrection of the Body: Reflections in a Hall of Mirrors by Tina Beattie<BR> Chapter 10.  The Resurrection, the Holy Spirit and the World Religions by Gavin D'Costa<BR> Chapter 11.  The Resurrection of Jesus and the Qur'an by David Marshall<BR> Chapter 12.  The Resurrection of Jesus: A Jewish View by Dan Cohn-Sherbok<BR> Chapter 13.  The Resurrection and Buddhism by Rupert Gethin List of Contributors<BR> Index<br />As a non-Christian who is primarily interested in the arguments for and against the historicity of a literal, bodily resurrection, I found some chapters of much more interest than others.  The first chapter, by John Barclay, was probably the most useful to me in the entire book.  Barclay summarizes the major arguments for and against the empty tomb.  As Barclay makes clear, some of the arguments on each side are clearly stronger than others.  For example, as an argument *against* the story, Barclay points out that the fact that Mark ends with the silence of the women is not unassailable.  Conversely, as an argument *for* the story, the fact that there is no known tomb veneration is weak, for that fact is just as probable on the assumption that the location of the tomb was unknown to the disciples as it is on the assumption that the tomb was empty.<br />Also especially relevant to the historicity debate were the articles by Christian-turned-atheist NT scholar Michael Goulder and theologian Wolfhart Pannenberg.  Goulder argues against the empty tomb story and for the hypothesis that the original post-mortem 'appearances' of Jesus were nothing more than subjective visions.  In contrast, Pannenberg argues for the reality of a historical, literal resurrection from the dead.	2001-01-01
US	53059603	RJMGVDKL4O5TN	0802843689	404329216	Jesus Outside the New Testament: An Introduction to the Ancient Evidence (Studying the Historical Jesus)	Books	3	73	100	N	N	Turned off by the 1st chapter's weak arguments	As a nontheist who thinks there was a historical Jesus, I often find myself caught between two extremes.  On the one hand, I don't believe that Jesus rose from the dead, was the son of God, etc.  But on the other hand, I simply am not convinced by mythicist arguments that there was no historical Jesus.  Central to the debate between these two competing positions is the issue of alleged extra-biblical references to the historicity of Jesus. That issue is the subject of Van Voorst's book, which he deals with in great detail.  Van Voorst discusses alleged references to Jesus in virtually all of the non-Christian sources, as well as various Christian sources about Jesus outside of the New Testament.  All of this combined makes the book the most comprehensive English lenguage review of alleged extra-Biblical references to Jesus written in recent memory.<br />With that said, I was frankly disappointed with the first chapter of the book, in which Van Voorst spends ten pages refuting the Christ-myth hypothesis.  To his credit, Van Voorst is very familiar with the various books and essays which deny the existence of Jesus.  He writes, &quot;Some readers may be surprised or shocked that many books and essays--by my count, over one hundred--in the past two hundred years have fervently denied the very existence of Jesus&quot; (p. 6). Nevertheless, he says, the Christ-myth hypothesis is not only rejected by virtually all New Testament scholars, but that the hypothesis has been almost completely ignored within the guild of New Testament scholarship since the 1940s.  However, Van Voorst acknowledges that there is tremendous interest in the historicity of Jesus. <br />He has a very interesting and educational history of the Christ-myth movement.  However, he apparently does not know that G.A. Wells, in his latest book THE JESUS MYTH, in which Wells *accepts* the historicity of Jesus based on the arguments of Burton Mack concerning Q. Van Voorst then, briefly, has occasion to criticize Michael Martin's defense of the mythicist hypothesis, given Martin's reliance on Wells.<br />Van Voorst then summarizes seven objections against Wells's (former) position that Jesus never existed.  Many of these objections are downright comical.<br />1.  &quot;Wells misinterprets Paul's relative silence about some details in the life of Jesus: the exact time of his life; the exact places of his ministry, that Pontius Pilate condemned him, and so forth.  As every good student of history knows, it is wrong to suppose that what is unmentioned or undetailed did not exist.  Arguments from silence about ancient times, here about the supposed lack of biblical or extrabiblical references to Jesus, are especially perilous.&quot;  <br />Lowder's comment: it seems to me there is a double-standard on the part of conservative Christians.  When discussing the historicity of Jesus, Christians will tell us that no historian takes arguments from silence seriously.  But when defending the empty tomb, Christians will conveniently engage in arguments from silence (e.g., &quot;The tomb was empty because there is no evidence of the Jewish authorities denying it.&quot;)  Yet the same facts appealed to by Christians in their arguments from silence for the empty tomb--like the lame argument that the Jews never denied the empty tomb--can itself be dismissed on the grounds that 'first-century Jews typically viewed the empty tomb story as so weak or bizarre that they ignored it completely.&quot; What's sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander.<br />2.  Wells dates the gospels around 100, which is too late.  Mark was written around 70 while Matthew and Luke were probably written in the 80s.  Van Voorst may well be right about his dating.  But so, too, might Wells.  What I find objectionable about Van Voorst's objection is that he gives no argument for it. *Why* should we accept Van Voorst's dating scheme for the gospels?  Van Voorst never says.<br />3.  The development of the Gospel traditions and the historical difficulties within them &quot;do not necessarily mean wholesale invention, and difficulties do not prove nonexistence.&quot;  But, to the best of my knowledge, Wells never argues that development of traditions and historical difficulties *necessarily proves* the mythicist hypothesis.  <br />4.  This one is a real howler: &quot;Wells cannot explain to the satisfaction of historians why, if Christians invented the historical Jesus around the year 100, no pagans and Jews who opposed Christianity denied Jesus' historicity or even questioned it.&quot;  This is an argument from silence!  I agree that there is no evidence that the historicity of Jesus was questioned in the first century.  But that fact does not, by itself, make it probable that Jesus existed.  Even on the assumption that Jesus never existed, Christianity was a minority religion viewed as a cult by outsiders.  Had Jesus never existed, there is no reason to suppose that anyone would have made an effort to show that.  Indeed, I think it is even doubtful that it would have occurred to anyone to question the historicity of Jesus!<br />5.  Despite Wells' objections to the contrary, non-Christian witnesses to Jesus, especially Tacitus and Josephus, are basically trustworthy because there is a &quot;strong consensus&quot; saying so.  Does this mean that from now on that evolutionists can argue that evolution is true simply because a &quot;strong consensus&quot; of biologists says it's true?  This is a really lame argument.  <br />6.  Another howler: &quot;Wells and others seem to have advanced the nonhistoricity hypothesis not for objective reasons, but for highly tendentious, antireligious purposes.&quot;<br />7.  &quot;Wells and his predecessors have failed to advance other, credible hypotheses to account for the birth of Christianity and the fashioning of a historical Christ.&quot;  I think this objection has some force.  <br />In conclusion, while I think Van Voorst's book is usefulas a comprehensive overview of extra-Biblical references to Jesus, his direct attacks on the mythicist hypothesis are mainly ineffective.  His best objection to the mythicist hypothesis is that some of the extra-Biblical sources *do* provide independent confirmation of Jesus, an issue which he deals with ably in the remainder of the book.	2000-12-28
US	53059603	R1QO0984TEEUQJ	0060608765	989291643	Meaning of Jesus, The	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Interesting introduction to the historical Jesus debate	THE MEANING OF JESUS is an excellent introduction to the historical Jesus debate written by two respected Christian New Testament scholars.  The conservative position is defended by N.T. Wright while the liberal position by Marcus Borg.  The book itself consists of a series mini-debates on specific historical topics like historical methodology, the sayings of Jesus, the crucifixion, the resurrection, the incarnation, the virgin birth, the second coming, etc.  Unfortunately, because the format of the book only allowed each scholar to write one statement (chapter) on each topic, there was no opportunity for each scholar to respond to the other's arguments.  Still, I thought this book was an excellent introduction to the disagreements in NT scholarship between conservatives and liberals.  <br />One other comment: as someone interested in the historicity of the resurrection, I found N.T. Wright's chapter on the resurrection very helpful.  Although other conservatives have often argued that no first-century Jew could have believed that Jesus was risen from the dead and yet suppose that his corpse rotted in the grave, no other writer has explained that argument as clearly as N.T. Wright.  I'm not sure if I agree with Wright's conclusion, but I appreciated the clarity Wright brought to the discussion.	2000-12-28
US	53059603	R3BW79A2YPWNJD	0664256473	370450041	What Really Happened to Jesus: A Historical Approach to the Resurrection	Books	5	26	32	N	N	Why a Bodily, Fleshy Resurrection of Jesus Is a Legend	This book is designed to be a more popular version of Ludemann's 1994 volume, THE RESURRECTION OF JESUS: HISTORY, EXPERIENCE, AND THEOLOGY. Ludemann presents the same arguments as he did in his 1994 volume, but in a much easier-to-read format. I use WHAT REALLY HAPPENED... as a companion to the 1994 volume. <br />Just as was the case in his 1994 volume, Ludemann argues that a strictly historical investigation of the New Testament texts does not support apologetic claims: Jesus may not have received an honorable burial, the empty tomb story is legendary, the appearance stories are embellished, etc.  Ludemann concluded that &quot;We can no longer take the statements about the resurrection of Jesus literally&quot; (p. 134) and that &quot;the tomb of Jesus was not empty, but full, and his body did not disappear, but rotted away&quot; (p. 135).  But Ludemann also concluded that a person could  consistently accept the results of his devastating historical investigation and yet remain a Christian.  Interestingly, it appears that Ludemann no longer holds this view and, indeed, no longer even claims to be a Christian.  (See the introduction to the North American edition of Ludemann's GREAT DECEPTION.)<br />Like the 1994 book, my only complaint about WHAT REALLY HAPPENED... is the lack of a bibliography and detailed indices (e.g., NT verses, subject, author).	2000-10-01
US	53059603	R39Y2P94FGV1VH	080062792X	850749883	Resurrection of Jesus: History, Experience, Theology	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Love it or hate it, a must-have book on the resurrection	Written in 1994 while Professor Leudemann was still a Christian,  this book caused such a storm of protest in Germany that the  original publisher declined to publish a second impression.  But  the same honesty which made the book so controversial is also  what makes it so valuable.  Leudemann decided to write this book  because he was dissatisfied with so much of what he read, and  therefore the book is a comprehensive treatment of the resurrection. He systematically surveys all of the passages in the New Testament which pertain to the Resurrection, beginning with 1 Corinthians 15 and ending with the last chapter of John.  In each instance, Leudemann writes like a sober historian, carefully considering each passage from a redactional, traditional, and critical historical perspective.  Leudemann argues that the tomb stories are late--Jesus may have received a dishonorable burial--and likewise the appearance stories are largely legendary.  But *something* did happen.  Leudemann skillfully extracts as much information as possible about that something from Paul's often cryptic statements, in order to formulate his own hypothesis as to how Christianity began.   Whether one one agrees, disagrees, or suspends judgment about  Leudemann's hypothesis, all serious students of the Resurrection  narratives will want to be familiar with this important book.  My only complaint about the book is the lack of a bibliography  and detailed indices (e.g., NT verses, subject, author).	2000-10-01
US	53059603	R2PFC95FHHXPOR	087975124X	506739930	Atheism: The Case Against God (The Skeptic's Bookshelf)	Books	4	10	15	N	N	Excellent introduction to nontheism	I once took a tour of Prometheus Books in Buffalo, NY in which I was told that George Smith's ATHEISM: THE CASE AGAINST GOD is one of their most popular selections.  Having read the book, it's easy to see why.  Smith's  book is an excellent introduction to nontheism.   <br /> My only criticism of  the book is that it is somewhat outdated.  Since Smith originally wrote the  book, theists have developed sophisticated new versions of the old  arguments for the existence of God (e.g., the kalam cosmological argument,  the fine-tuning argument, etc.).  While some of what Smith writes is  applicable to these 'new' arguments, the book was not written with these  arguments in mind and therefore does not directly clash with them.  I think  it would be great if Smith were to revise his book to reflect these recent  developments; it would not take much work at all to once again make  ATHEISM: THE CASE AGAINST GOD a state-of-the-art critique of reasons for  believing that God exists.	2000-05-26
US	53059603	R2BT2HOR8C72C0	0253210283	300592869	The Evidential Argument from Evil (Indiana Series in the Philosophy of Religion)	Books	5	33	35	N	N	A MUST-HAVE book on the problem of evil!	Anyone interested in the debate over the evidential argument from evil simply must have this book. It includes two influential but distinct formulations of the argument--those by William Rowe and Paul  Draper--followed by a number of essays written in response to one another.   The list of authors who contributed to the anthology is impressive.   Besides Rowe and Draper, the book also contains essays by Richard  Swinburne, Alvin Plantinga, Richard Gale, Bruce Russell, Peter van Inwagen,  and Stephen Wykstra. <br /> Like Cole Mitchell, I was also somewhat  disappointed by the demographics of the book (10 of the book's 16 articles  were theistic).  Despite this flaw, I was still so pleased with the book  that I rated it with 5 stars.  Any serious student of the problem of evil  will want their own copy of this book.	2000-05-26
US	53059603	RMIPOAZCG8I2R	0939873532	124558465	Voices for Evolution	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Interesting Collection of Pro-Evolution Statements	This book is an interesting collection of statements which favor evolution (and oppose so-called 'scientific' creationism) by various scientific, educational, and religious groups.  This book contains ammunition that  could be useful in debating creationists.	2000-05-24
US	53059603	R1SOMUTH4AGDVQ	0874869870	349713140	She Said Yes: The Unlikely Martyrdom Of Cassie Bernall	Books	1	121	199	N	N	She Didn't Say Yes	The Columbina massacre was a horrible tragedy; I was shocked and outraged by news of the event. My heart goes out to everyone who suffered as a result of the incident, including the parents of Cassie Bernall.  <br />  Unfortunately, whatever truths may be found in SHE SAID YES, the story of  Cassie's martyrdom is false. Cassie was not asked at gunpoint if she  believed in God; the Columbine shooters were not targeting Christians in  any way. While I am perfectly willing to grant the authors the benefit of  the doubt, there is now no evidence whatsoever to support the claim that  Cassie was martyred for her beliefs; this book should either be revised or  pulled from publication.  <br /> And contrary to what many other reviewers  have written, this DOES matter: the story has been used to slander atheists  and agnostics. Many people who uncritically accept the tale of Cassie's  martyrdom assume that the killers did not believe in God and therefore  believe that everyone who does not believe in God must be like the  Columbine shooters. This is a slander against everyone who does not believe  in God; everyone who cares about the truth should not spread this type of  misinterpretation.	2000-05-24
US	53059603	R3IN7B1KG4UTKA	0195032535	118238569	Science and Creationism (Galaxy Book, Gb 721)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Excellent Anthology Refuting Creationist Propaganda	This book, along with Douglas Futuyma's SCIENCE ON TRIAL and Richard Dawkins' THE BLIND WATCHMAKER, was one of my first books on creationism and evolution.  Overall, I think the book is excellent; however, I found the  individual essays to be of varying quality.  In my opinion, Ken Miller's  essay, &quot;Scientific Creationism versus Evolution: The Mislabeled  Debate,&quot; is probably the most useful essay in the entire volume.  Ken  Miller, a Catholic biologist, is arguably the  best pro-evolution debater  today.  (See his recent book, FINDING DARWIN'S GOD.)  Also of value were  Robert Root-Bernstein's essay on demarcation criteria for distinguishing  science from pseudoscience, both of Stephen Jay Gould's chapters, Isaac  Asimov's illuminating chapter on the &quot;threat&quot; of creationism, and  the text of Federal Judge William Overton's decision in the historic  Arkansas case.  However, other chapters were lass valuable.  In particular,  I think Roger Cuffey's bibliographic essay, &quot;Paleontologic Evidence  and Organic Evolution,&quot; will be worthless to almost everyone except  specialists.  Similarly, I was also disapppointed by the contributions of  Sidney Fox and L. Beverly Halstead; I was left wishing they had each  written essays more accessible to laymen.  But despite these flaws I think  the book is an important one.  Creationists, evolutionists, and anyone else  interested in the creation/evolution controversy will want to be familiar  with this important book.	2000-05-24
US	53059603	R12JQYRLNU7YVV	0878931848	71893712	Science on Trial: The Case for Evolution	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Excellent refutation of 'scientific' creationism	Concise yet powerful, Futuyma's Science on Trial is yet another outstanding defense of biological evolution. It's unlikely that creationists who want &quot;both sides&quot; taught in public schools want  anyone reading this book, for it exposes creationism for the  pseudoscientific nonsense it really is.  Also recommended: SCIENCE AND  EARTH HISTORY by Arthur Strahler, BLIND WATCHMAKER by Richard Dawkins, and  SCIENTISTS CONFRONT CREATIONISM by Laurie Godfrey.	2000-05-24
US	53059603	RHEDMOKBJS0IL	1565072685	669356670	Understanding the Times	Books	2	40	108	N	N	Failed attack on atheism and biological evolution	David Noebel is the President of Summit Ministries, an organization which  offers courses in comparative worldviews for young Christians.  UNDERSTANDING THE TIMES represents Noebel's assessment of a comparison of  three worldviews: secular humanism, marxism/leninism, and biblical  Christianity. (A fourth worldview, the so-called &quot;new age  movement,&quot; is briefly discussed in an appendix.) Immediately, one  wonders why Noebel chose these worldviews, but not others. After all, there  is an Islamic worldview, a Hindu worldview, a Mormon worldview, etc. And  why relegate the New Age movement to an appendix?  It seems to me that the  New Age movement is far more influential in North America than  Marxism/Leninism. <br /> According to Noebel, a worldview contains a  particular perspective in each of the following ten areas: theology,  philosophy, ethics, biology, psychology, sociology, law, politics,  economics, and history. Again, just as Noebel's choice of worldviews seems  arbitrary, so does his definition of what constitutes a worldview. For  example, why *must* a worldview contain a particular perspective regarding,  say, sociology? Granted, different approaches to sociology may have  metaphysical presuppositions, implications, or both. But it seems far from  obvious that a complete worldview *must* include a specific view of, say,  sociology. Moreover, even if the Christian worldview implies a certain  perspective on sociology, it is far from obvious that other worldviews must  also imply their own perspective on sociology.  <br /> As an atheist (but not  a secular humanist), I was especially interested in what Noebel had to say  concerning the secular humanist worldview, specifically secular humanism's  &quot;theology&quot; (atheism) and &quot;biology&quot; (evolution).  Unfortunately, Noebel's discussion of both matters is substantially  weakened by two flaws. First, he makes things easy for himself by refusing  to actually interact with any of the evidence and arguments advanced by  atheists and evolutionists in favor of their views. Second, Noebel simply  repeats many of the same old objections to atheism and biological evolution  that have answered repeatedly by atheists and evolutionists, without giving  any indication of their answers. <br /> Incredibly, in his discussion of  atheism, Noebel only spends a single paragraph on the problem of evil and  even then he only considers the weakest version of the problem, the  so-called &quot;logical&quot; argument from evil. Furthermore, Noebel's  discussion of atheism is now outdated because it neglects a major new  argument for atheism: the argument from divine hiddenness. (See my webpage  for more information about this argument.) Noebel also repeats the familiar  argument that life is meaningless without God, but he misses the obvious  atheistic rejoinder that individuals can still have *personal* (or  non-ultimate) meaning without God, even if there is no *cosmic* (or  ultimate) meaning without God.  <br /> Turning to Noebel's attacks on  biological evolution, not only are his objections fallacious, but several  of his objections are based upon serious misunderstandings of modern  science.  For example, he confuses modern theories of abiogenesis (how life  *gradually* evolved from non-life) with the 19th-century theory of  spontaneous generation (the belief that life *instantly* and  *spontaneously* arises from non-life)! By treating these two views as  equivalent, Noebel attacks a straw man. Other errors present in his attack  on evolution include the bogus claim that natural selection is a tautology  (even Phillip Johnson rejects this objection), the idea that mutations  cannot provide the new genetic material for natural selection (Noebel  completely ignores the scientific literature on this point), and the idea  that punctuated equilibrium (a theory about *how* evolution occurs, not  *whether* it occurs) somehow discredits evolution.  What disturbs me is  that the scientific community has repeatedly answered all of these  objections (see my web page for  details); yet Noebel does not even  indicate that to his readers. For this very reason, it seems to me that  Noebel has done his readers a disservice: they will be ill-equipped to  answer the detailed replies that evolutionists have to these and other  objections. <br /> In short, I think Noebel's objections to atheism and  biological evolution are mistaken on virtually every point. Nevertheless, I  truly enjoyed his very interesting book. I think the chief accomplishment  of UNDERSTANDING THE TIMES is Noebel's systematic, comprehensive comparison  of competing worldviews. For that reason, I gave his book two stars instead  of only one. Perhaps some day a nontheist will write a similar analysis of  worldviews from a naturalistic perspective. (For a detailed review of  Noebel's book, visit infidels.org.)	2000-05-24
US	53059603	R2D8D3D49R6M5J	026216180X	864767463	Tower of Babel: The Evidence against the New Creationism	Books	5	10	17	N	Y	Excellent refutation of the new creationism	In response to court rulings that the teaching of creationism in public school science classes is unconstitutional, creationists have tried to tone down the religious aspects of creationism. They have even given creationism  a new name: the so-called 'intelligent design' (ID) hypothesis. In TOWER OF  BABEL, Robert T. Pennock refutes ID'ers and shows that creationism still  has no business in a science classroom.  In particular, Pennock provides a  devastating refutation of the misguided arguments of Phillip Johnson, one  of the leaders of the ID movement.  Highly recommended.	2000-05-24
US	53059603	RV0IJ8945YMR4	0300062125	708226295	Ethical and Religious Thought in Analytic Philosophy of Language	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Excellent defense of atheistic moral realism	Although this is not the only topic Smith addresses in the book, I really appreciate the work he did on atheistic moral realism.  Smith reviews all of the relevant literature--including that by J.L. Mackie, Robert Adams,  and David O. Brink--and demonstrates the inherent plausibility of an  atheistic moral realism. <br /> Smith also has occasion to defend a logical  argument from evil.  While I am skeptical of such arguments, Smith's book  should serve as a reminder to theists who wish to proclaim the death of  logical arguments from evil.   <br /> If you've ever wondered how an objective  morality could exist if God does not, and you've wanted a really thorough  treatment of the issue, this book is for you. Although Smith's book can be  difficult reading (especially for nonphilosophers), it is well worth the  effort.	2000-05-23
US	53059603	R342OZQL7LKIQP	0849939437	152659957	Can Man Live Without God	Books	1	31	80	N	N	An Emotional Tirade Against Atheism	As I read the book, I was shocked by Zacharias's inflammatory and patronizing tone. Zacharias describes atheistic critiques of theistic arguments as &quot;linguistic trickery and distortion of truth&quot; (p.  xiii) and &quot;emotionally charged outburst[s] against the existence of God ... garbed in intellectual terminology.&quot; According to Zacharias, atheist philosophers &quot;hide behind philosophical arguments, heavily footnoted for effect,&quot; rather than &quot;admit our hurts, our confusions, our loves, and our passions in the marketplace of life's heartfelt transactions.&quot; Zacharias also describes atheist philosophers this way: &quot;every now and then there arises on the educational landscape some new antitheistic voice, arrogantly sounding forth with an air of omniscience, mocking religion and debunking the sacred&quot; (p. 6).  He even calls atheists &quot;God-killers&quot; (p. 31)!<br /> Zacharias' attack on atheism contains many errors and distortions:<br /> * Atheism is NOT synonymous with materialism (p. 17).<br /> * Zacharias engages in name-calling when he calls atheists 'antitheists.' (Given that Zacharias's first two consecutive books attack atheism, one wonders if Zacharias is &quot;better described&quot; as an anti-atheist.)<br /> * Atheism is NOT a worldview.<br /> * Atheism does not entail nihilism (pp. 18-19).  As a matter of fact, atheism does not logically entail *any* theory of ethics!<br /> Moreover, despite Zacharias's protests to the contrary, the problem of evil is still an excellent reason for rejecting theism (p. 45). Zacharias argues that the problem of evil cannot be used as evidence for atheism since if atheism is true there is no such thing as evil. However, even if that were true--it isn't--that is irrelevant to whether the problem of evil provides good evidence for the nonexistence of God. *Theists* believe certain things are evil. *Theists* believe God is good. *Theists* believe that good persons are opposed to evil. So *theists* need to explain why a good who is good (in their sense of 'good') would allow so much apparently pointless evil (in their sense of 'evil'). If theists can't explain it, then that is a problem for the internal coherence of a *theistic* worldview.<br /> Furthermore, Zacharias is simply mistaken when he asserts that atheists cannot consistently accept objective moral values.  Richard Swinburne, arguably the most influential Christian philosopher in the world, says that if there are objective moral values, the *naturalistic* account of them is probably correct.  If Zacharias wants to disagree with Swinburne, he needs to provide objections to Swinburne's view.<br /> Finally, Zacharias's defense of theism is totally inadequate. Although Zacharias recognizes that he must establish the existence of God before he can defend Christianity (p. 189), he relegates his &quot;case&quot; for theism to a mere 6 pages--0.02% of the book--in an appendix! (A much more logical structure would have been to first refute atheism, then defend theism, and then defend Christian theism.) With such little space devoted to arguing for theism, Zacharias is forced to summarize theistic arguments without adequately explicating and defending key premises in his arguments. ...heists* need to explain why a good who is good (in their sense of 'good') would allow so much apparently pointless evil (in their sense of 'evil'). If theists can't explain it, then that is a problem for the internal coherence of a *theistic* worldview. <br /> Furthermore, Zacharias is simply mistaken when he asserts that atheists cannot consistently accept objective moral values.  Richard Swinburne, arguably the most influential Christian philosopher in the world, says that if there are objective moral values, the *naturalistic* account of them is probably correct.  If Zacharias wants to disagree with Swinburne, he needs to provide objections to Swinburne's view. <br /> Finally, Zacharias's defense of theism is totally inadequate. Although Zacharias recognizes that he must establish the existence of God before he can defend Christianity (p. 189), he relegates his &quot;case&quot; for theism to a mere 6 pages--0.02% of the book--in an appendix! (A much more logical structure would have been to first refute atheism, then defend theism, and then defend Christian theism.) With such little space devoted to arguing for theism, Zacharias is forced to summarize theistic arguments without adequately explicating and defending key premises in his arguments. ...	2000-05-23
US	53059603	R10JZV15YKC282	0801021758	456765428	Will the Real Jesus Please Stand Up?: A Debate between William Lane Craig and John Dominic Crossan	Books	3	53	67	N	N	The Liberals Didn't Take the 'Debate' Seriously	WILL THE REAL JESUS PLEASE STAND UP? (Grand Rapids: Baker Books, 1998) is a transcript of the debate between William Lane Craig and John Dominic Crossan. The book contains responses to the debate by two conservatives  (Craig L. Blomberg and Ben Witherington III) and two liberals (Robert J.  Miller and Marcus Borg). Finally, Craig and Crossan each offer some  concluding reflections on the debate.<br />Given that Craig and Crossan hold  diametrically opposed views of Christian origins, this debate could have  been an excellent opportunity to learn why each camp rejects the empirical  claims of the other. Whereas the conservatives presented arguments for  their positions (and point-by-point objections to Crossan's position), the  liberals simply did not take the debate very seriously. Not only did  Crossan fail to engage Craig on the specifics of his case, Crossan refused  to engage in any historical argumentation. Instead, Crossan argued that the  New Testament documents--including their accounts of resurrection--should  be taken as metaphor. Now, even if that is true--and conservatives will  obviously disagree--it was simply poor argumentative strategy on Crossan's  part to neglect the empirical claims advanced by Craig. Given that Crossan  denies the truth of each of Craig's four historical claims--burial by  Joseph of Arimathea, empty tomb, post-resurrection appearances, and the  origin of the Christian faith--I think Crossan did a disservice to his  audience by failing to defend his objections to each of Craig's four  historical claims. <br />To make matters worse, the two liberal commentators  on the debate (Miller and Borg) *also* refused to interact with Craig's  arguments for the historicity of the resurrection. Miller, in the  introduction to his commentary, mysteriously declares, &quot;[I]nstead of  responding directly to Craig's argument, I will step back from it and  analyze its format, message, and audience&quot; (p. 77). Say what?  Borg's  commentary isslightly better; Borg argues that the original understanding  of resurrection--represented by 1 Corinthians 15--&quot;does not depend  upon something having happened to Jesus' corpse&quot; (p. 123). Yet Borg,  like Miller and Crossan himself, declares as irrelevant whether the  resurrection is literally, historically true.<br />Given their understanding  of &quot;resurrection,&quot; the liberals simply could not bring themselves  to take Craig's apologetic arguments seriously. While that is certainly  their prerogative, they never should have agreed to participate in this  project if they were not fully committed to exploring the *full scope* of  the topic. Someone needs to tell Crossan, Miller, and Borg that the concept  of debate is based upon a *clash of ideas*; if they are not willing to  directly clash with the arguments of their opponents; they should not agree  to participate! If Crossan was only interested in debating whether Jesus'  resurrection was a physical resurrection which depended upon an empty tomb,  he should have refused to participate in a debate format where the truth of  certain historical claims would be an issue. By participating in a debate  but never really debating, Crossan has now managed to give the impression  that he did not refute Craig's arguments because he can't refute Craig's  arguments. This is, of course, false; there are excellent reasons for  rejecting Craig's historical arguments. (See my forthcoming reply to  Craig's arguments for the historicity of the empty tomb.) But the vast  majority of Crossan's Evangelical audience will never hear those reasons  because Crossan couldn't be bothered to state them, either in the debate  itself or in his concluding comments.<br />Turning to the debater's concluding  reflections, I was not impressed by the fact that Craig got to give his  opening statement first *and* that his concluding reflections appeared  last.  Of course, Craig's and Crossan's concluding reflections were  presumablywritten simultaneously and independent of one another, but in a  debate where no one side had the sole burden of proof, Crossan's concluding  reflections should have appeared last in the volume.<br />In conclusion, given  the liberals' refusal to fully participate in this debate, I can't  recommend this book to anyone, even as an  introductory text.  There are  better introductory books available on the views of both Craig and Crossan.	2000-05-21
US	53059603	RTYQP91MHNGP7	0801427924	565788643	Divine Hiddenness and Human Reason (Cornell Studies in the Philosophy of Religion)	Books	5	20	26	N	Y	Extremely powerful evidence for atheism	If there is a God, why is his existence not more obvious?  The traditional answer is that God is hidden.  However, as John L. Schellenberg (DPhil, Oxon) points out, an all-good or perfectly loving God would not remain  hidden.  Therefore, he argues, the fact that it is *reasonable* to not  believe in God is *evidence* for the non-existence of God.  <br />What makes  Schellenberg's book so interesting is that Schellenberg was forced to  embrace atheism as a result of his own argument, despite the fact that  Schellenberg has said that he finds atheism quite unpalatable.  In the  conclusion of his book, Schellenberg encourages theists to find a flaw in  his argument so that he can once again believe in God.  <br />Schellenberg's  book has created quite a stir in the philosophy of religion.  Just over a  year ago, I attended a conference of the Society of Christian Philosophers;  one of the themes for that conference was the argument from divine  hiddenness.  Indeed, I was told that Daniel Howard-Snyder and Paul Moser  are editing a forthcoming analogy on the argument, in the spirit of  Howard-Snyder's highly successful anthology, THE EVIDENTIAL ARGUMENT FROM  EVIL.  <br />If you are interested in arguments for and against the existence  of God--whether you are a theist, atheist, or somewhere in between--this is  one book you will want on your bookshelf.  For more information, check out  infidels.org.	2000-05-19
US	53059603	RB2OVKJ1G2DFL	0312220006	373532677	The Philosophical and Theological Foundations of Ethics: An Introduction to Moral Theory and its Relation to Religious Belief	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Excellent overview of relationship between religion &amp; ethics	Peter Byrne is the editor of the prestigious journal RELIGIOUS STUDIES.  His book, THE PHILOSOPHICAL AND THEOLOGICAL FOUNDATIONS OF ETHICS, is simply an outstanding introductory text on the relationship between religion and morality.  I have learned much from this book, and I highly recommend it to others.<br />As an atheist, I was particularly interested in Byrne's chapter on &quot;Morality without Religion.&quot; Byrne considers a number of issues related to this subject, including: (i) naturalistic ethics, motivation, and evil; and (ii) the metaphysics and epistemology of secular ethics.  Concerning (i), Byrne considers &quot;the objection to secular ethics ... that it can offer the individual who respects morality no guarantee of anything other than a life of disappointment and self-sacrifice.&quot; However, he notes that the secular moralist can offer three points to mitigate this objection.  First, virtuous living remains a partial good even if it exists in isolation from the ideal whole.  Second, the social dimension of morality shows that the best chance for attaining the complete good will be in a morally ordered community where moral rules are well-respected.  Third, concern for moral considerations is not wholly derived from desire to attain an ultimate good.  Byrne concludes, &quot;We can see from this discussion of moral motivation that what is and is not a proper and sufficient motive for moral action is a complex matter--much more complex than neat proofs of the unsatisfactoriness of this or that moral outlook allow.&quot;<br />As for (ii), Byrne considers arguments which attempt to show that if we are doubtful of theism, we must be doubtful of the truth of moral principles.  Here Byrne notes that if the secular moralist is allowed use of the notions of truth and reason in general, then objections about the source and nature of secular morality collapse.  (Byrne lists personal choice, social custom, and evolution as examples of sources of secular moral standards.)  He writes, &quot;So long as the secular thinker can point to good reasons which back a judgement such as 'Do not steal', the question of whence this moral standard arises is of no more philosophical interest than the question 'Where do the principles of arithmetic come from?'&quot;<br />The book is written at an intermediate level, so that it is useful to scholars and students alike.  I highly recommend it.	2000-05-19
US	53059603	R35GOSOWVY10XL	0060175931	922947589	Finding Darwin's God: A Scientist's Search for Common Ground Between God and Evolution	Books	5	44	52	N	N	Excellent refutation of 'scientific' creationism	Anti-evolutionists have become increasingly sophisticated in their attacks on biology. Phillip Johnson argues that evolution presupposes metaphysical naturalism. Michael Behe argues that evolution cannot explain 'irreducibly  complex' structures. Distinguished biologist Kenneth Miller (Brown  University) refutes these and other misguided attacks on biological  evolution in a delightfully written, fast-paced defense of evolution.  Miller, a practicing Roman Catholic, also has a fascinating section on  evolution's implications for religious belief. Anyone interested in  evolution and 'scientific' creation will want to add this book to their  library.	1999-11-15
US	53059603	R1FTE5KY623NPI	0966520866	267910536	Queen Jane's Version, The Holy Bible for Adults Only	Books	2	17	37	N	N	How NOT to Persaude Christians to Abandon Christianity	Douglas A. Rankin, a linguist and freethinker, has modified the King James Version of the Bible so that all the sex, scatology, violence, and so forth therein is stated in plain, unambiguous, and uncensored language. The book  also includes a system of well-drawn icons that mark for the reader those  portions of the text that involve the types of content Rankin wishes to  highlight (a snoozing moon for the boring parts, a urinating child for  scatology, a Dracula face for canibalism, a copulating heterosexual couple  for heterosexual sex passages, and so forth). Yet _Queen Jane's Version_ is  much more than a translation of the King James Version into contemporary  English.  The book is designed to be &quot;an iconoclastic, biting, often  shocking satire that mocks religious hypocrisy and the gullibility of  hard-core believers.&quot;  According to Rankin, the purpose of such an  approach is to inspire people to live life for life rather than for death,  for reality rather than for mind-crippling myth.&quot;  Yet, given the  book's antagonistic approach, I think it is highly unlikely that the book  will accomplish anything besides alienating Christians. In marketing terms,  this book is a &quot;high negative.&quot;	1999-05-20
US	53059603	RMPYU5WOR4UNM	9051838387	51711260	Religion And Morality.(Value Inquiry Book Series 26)	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	The best book available on religion and morality	Sagi and Statman distinguish and discuss three different approaches to the relationship between religion and morality: (1) the strong dependence of morality on religion, (2) the weak dependence of morality on religion, and  (3) conflict between religion and morality.  This book is an excellent,  balanced, and refreshing contribution to the ongoing conversation about the  relationship between religion and morality.  I highly recommend it.	1999-04-12
US	53059603	RB5RTMT8QKGCX	1573922285	751998454	Nonbelief & Evil: Two Arguments for the Nonexistence of God	Books	5	39	44	N	N	Excellent contribution to atheist philosophy of religion	_Nonbelief and Evil_ is a fascinating, thorough, and (in my opinion)  persuasive presentation of two arguments for the non-existence of God:  nonbelief and evil. Drange presents his own unique formulation of the  Argument from Evil, along with rebuttals to virtually every theistic  defense against the argument from evil, including Alvin Plantinga's Free  Will Defense, John Hick's Soul-Making Theodicy, the Unknown Purpose  Defense, and much more. And the Argument from Nonbelief -- the argument  that the mere existence of nonbelievers constitutes evidence for the  non-existence of God -- is an original argument by Drange. I think the book  will serve as a major contribution to the philosophy of religion.  _Nonbelief and Evil_ also includes some interesting appendices on related  issues including  the argument from the Bible, the concept of an afterlife,  and the fine-tuning argument. I enthusiastically endorse Drange's book.	1998-08-22
US	53059603	R3R06QPAI779SU	0879758236	784675167	Does God Exist?: The Debate between Theists & Atheists	Books	5	48	59	N	N	Atheism was poorly represented	This book is divided into three sections: (i) the transcriptof the oral debate on the existence of God between Christianphilosopher J.P. Moreland and atheist philosopher Kai Nielsen; (ii) commentaries on the debate by two Christian philosophers (William Lane Craig and Dallas Willard) and two atheist philosophers (Antony Flew and Keith Parsons); and (iii) concluding thoughts by Moreland and Nielsen. I agree completely with the conclusion of Craig's flow of the debate, that Moreland won the debate. In fact, Moreland's victory in the debate was so decisive I am left wishing that Keith Parsons had been Moreland's opponent; I wonder if Nielsen even took the debate seriously. In light of this, I am baffled why a secular humanist publisher like Prometheus Books would choose to pubish this particular debate, given that the atheist side was so poorly represented.     For that matter, I am surprised that even Thomas Nelson originally published the book, for even theists should want the atheist position to be given its best representation.  However, Nielsen's critique of theism is not representative of most atheist philosophers. Nielsen relies upon a critique of religious language in which he argues that &quot;God&quot; is literally meaningless. Not only do most atheist philosophers not use such an argument, they disagree with it! Unfortunately, as a result of Nielsen's &quot;strategy&quot; of putting all his eggs in an ineffective basket, readers are deprived of the opportunity to see an exchange between Moreland and atheist philosophers who make substantive objections to Moreland's arguments. To be sure, Antony Flew and Keith Parsons both make excellent, *representative* objections to Moreland's case, and Moreland responds to those objections in his final remarks, but we are reprived the opportunity to see how Parsons and Flew would respond to that, and so on.  I therefore discourage *buying* the book. <br /> However, I encourage interested parties from both sides to borrowthe book from someone who already owns it (e.g., a professor or a local library). I just wouldn't recommend spending money on the book when the atheist debater did such a poor job representing atheism. Even theistic philosophers would agree that Nielsen could have defended atheism in the debate better than he did -- much better in fact -- and that's why I discourage buying the book. And because theistic philosophers care about the truth, even they would admit that atheism wasn't represented as well as it could have been. (For example, most theistic philosophers I have read endorse J.L. Mackie's _Miracle of Theism_ as one of the best philosophical cases for atheism. They don't agree with the book, but they agree that Mackie's book is one of the best cases for atheism in the philosophical literature. And if you asked any of those theistic philosophers, they would tell you that Nielsen did not use any of Mackie's arguments. Therefore, Nielsen's arguments are not representative of the best arguments for atheism.) <br /> Moreland gave two arguments for theism: the comsological argument and the argument that God resurrected Jesus from the dead. We have responded to both of these arguments (thought not necessarily to Moreland specifically) on the Secular Web, and would welcome an exchange with Moreland should he want to answer our rebuttals.	1998-03-20
US	53059603	R15OJHH9EKU54R	1877733091	307787979	Women Without Superstition : No Gods - No Masters	Books	5	4	14	N	N	Women Without Superstition	The collected writings of women freethinkers of the nineteenth &amp; twentieth centuries, including Susan B. Anthony, Annie Besant, Lillie Devereux Blake, Hypatia Bradlaugh Bonner, Meg Bowman, Lydia Maria Child, Voltairine de Cleyre, Lucy N. Colman, Ellen Battelle Dietrick, Barbara Ehrenreich, George Eliot, Catherine Fahringer, Margaret Fuller, Matilda Josyln Gage, Zona Gale, Helen H. Gardener, Anne Nicol Gaylor, Ella E. Gibson, Charlotte Perkins Gilman, Emma Goldman, Ruth Hermence Green, Sharlot Hall, Josephine K. Henry, Sonia Johnson, Margaret Knight, Meridel LeSueur, Emma Martin, Harriet Martineau, Sherry Matulis, Vashti McCollum, Taslima Nasrin, Ouida, Lucy Parsons, Katha Pollitt, Marilla M. Ricker, Ernestine L. Rose, Anne Royall, Dora Russell, Margaret Sanger, Etta Semple, Marian Sherman, M.D., Queen Silver, Elmina Drake Slenker, Kaye Nolte Smith, Barbara Smoker, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Lois Waisbrooker, Barbara G. Walker, Susan Wixon, Mary Wollstonecraft, Frances Wright...	1997-09-07
US	53059603	R25QVM22DKCRYE	0840743785	617144895	001: Evidence That Demands a Verdict, Volume 1: Historical Evidences for the Christian Faith	Books	2	13	34	N	N	Evidence That Demands a Verdict	This &quot;handbook&quot; of alleged Christian evidences leaves much to be desired.  So much, in fact, that  I have edited a book-length rebuttal to McDowell at the above URL.  If you really do want to love God with all your mind, you will check out what I and my colleagues have to say before making a decision	1997-08-21
US	53059603	R2DEJ8RDUE6WNN	0198239637	20484460	The Existence of God (Clarendon Paperbacks)	Books	5	6	11	N	Y	The Existence of God	This book is the second volume in a trilogy that began with _The Coherence of Theism_ (1977) and was concluded with _Faith and Reason_ (1981). In this work, Swinburne attempts to construct a series of inductive arguments for the existence of God. His arguments, which are somewhat tendentious and rely upon the imputation of late 20th century western Christian values and aesthetics to a God which is supposedly as simple as can be conceived, were decisively rejected in Mackie's _The Miracle of Theism_. In the revised edition of _The Existence of God_, Swinburne attempts to rebut Mackie. The best defense of theism available	1997-07-02
US	53059603	R2UFD5FRN7J75A	0879752890	362503733	Philosophy & Atheism (Skeptic's Bookshelf Series)	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Philosophy & Atheism	&quot;Philosophy &amp; Atheism is a collection of essays on such topics as the definitions of agnosticism and atheism, flaws in theistic arguments, the incoherence of theism, the burden of proof and the presumption of atheism, humanistic ethics, and religion and rationality. This would probably not be a good introduction to atheism, but it would definitely be useful to anyone interested in methodological issues such as the definition and presumption of atheism.&quot; -- Jeffery Jay Lowder	1997-06-23
US	53059603	R2Y7BWGUCUW83	0879755512	172027441	God and the Burden of Proof: Plantinga, Swinburne, and the Analytic Defense of Theism (Frontiers of Philosophy)	Books	5	14	17	N	N	God and the Burden of Proof	In debating the existence of God, a fundamental question is who -- if anyone -- should bear the burden of proof. In _God and the Burden of Proof_, Keith Parsons explains why theists (but not atheists) bear the burden of proof. Along the way, he manages to provided a nontechnical response to two of the most influential theistic philosophers of our time, Alvin Plantinga and Richard Swinburne. Highly recommended, despite the book's excessive cost. -- Jeffery Jay Lowde	1997-06-18
US	53059603	R2FEGZHULTE0V0	0879758236	784675167	Does God Exist?: The Debate between Theists & Atheists	Books	2	6	10	N	N	review	This book is divided into three sections: (i) the transcript of the oral debate on the existence of God between Christian philosopher J.P. Moreland and atheist philosopher Kai Nielsen; (ii) commentaries on the debate by two Christian philosophers (William Lane Craig and Dallas Willard) and two atheist philosophers (Antony Flew and Keith Parsons); and (iii) concluding thoughts by Moreland and Nielsen. I agree completely with the conclusion of Craig's flow of the debate, that Moreland won the debate. In fact, Moreland's victory in the debate was so decisive I am left wishing that Keith Parsons had been Moreland's opponent; I wonder if Nielsen even took the debate seriously. In light of this, I am baffled why a secular humanist publisher like Prometheus Books would choose to pubish this particular debate, given how pathetic Nielsen's performance truly was. People who want to read a debate on the existence of God where both sides were well-represented do not want to buy this book; they should read some of the debate transcripts on the Secular Web instead. -- Jeffery Jay Lowder	1997-06-18
US	53059603	R301RVDLRX2DPH	0879752513	324187517	God, Freedom and Immortality	Books	4	10	11	N	N	God, Freedom, and Immortality	As the title suggests, Antony Flew's _God, Freedom, and Immortality_ is a collection of independent essays on God, freedom, and immortality. Some of the essays -- esp. the essays on &quot;The Presumption of Atheism&quot; and &quot;The Principle of Agnosticism&quot; -- are quite good. Others, however, wear their date on their face. His essay on &quot;What are Cosmological Arguments?&quot; does not even reference the kalam cosmological argument, which has become quite popular with theists since the writing of Flew's book. And his chapter on the free will defense defends the so-called 'logical' problem of evil by arguing for compatibilism, at the expense of neglecting the less controversial 'evidential' problem of evil. -- Jeffery Jay Lowder	1997-06-17
US	53059603	RLNDT0XZDYYEC	0521457238	886915241	On the Nature and Existence of God (Cambridge Philosophy Classics)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	On the Nature and Existence of God	Gale's book is introduced as a critical response to the analytic arguments offered by Plantinga, Swinburne, Alston, and others. He begins by discussing several atheological arguments, which he uses to clarify the nature of God's attributes instead of refuting God's existence. He then proceeds to refute different versions of ontological, cosmological, religious-experience, and pragmatic arguments for God's existence. Technical, yet very witty. Recommended reading for anyone with an academic interest in the philosophy of religion. -- Jeffery Jay Lowde	1997-06-17
US	53059603	R2745PKCZ05IZ8	0879752564	230263432	An Anthology of Atheism and Rationalism	Books	2	21	44	N	N	Anthology of Atheism and Rationalism	Gordon Stein states that he had two goals in compiling his _Anthology of Atheism and Rationalism_: (1) getting hard-to-find historical atheist and rationalist materials in print, and (2) selecting 'the best written, most concise, cleverest, or more representative' essays on atheism and rationalism.  Now certainly (1) and (2) are laudable goals;  preserving historical freethought writings is important.  Yet it is clear from his comments that Stein not only wants to preserve these historical writings in print, he wants to promote them on par with contemporary writings even when these historical writings wear their date on their face.  And his introductions  often miss the mark, by refuting simplistic versions of theistic arguments (e.g., the first cause argument instead of the kalam cosmological  argument), failing to interact with contemporary scholarship on the issues he addresses (e.g., his suggestion that Tacitus' reference to Jesus is an interpolation),  and abusing methodology (e.g., quoting self-described 'atheists' while attempting to define atheism).  Stein's book might be of interest to freethought historians and bibliographers, but considered as a book in the philosophy of religion it is very disappointing.	1997-06-16
US	53059603	R3CX6F8PJSD18W	0415093384	389326620	Arguing for Atheism: An Introduction to the Philosophy of Religion	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Arguing for Atheism	This is an introduction to philosophy of religion written by an atheist.  Le Poidevin manages to discuss a number of technical metaphysical issues in a highly readable way, which is exactly what we would hope to find in a college textbook such as this.  My only criticism of Arguing for Atheism concerns what Le Poidevin did not address. His book contains nothing on miracles or religious experience, nor any reference to any of the new arguments for atheism, including Michael Martin's atheistic teleological argument or Quentin Smith's atheistic cosmological argument (even though the book comes with an endorsement by Smith).  Indeed, Le Poidevin seems unaware of some very influential atheist philosophers, like Michael Martin and Antony Flew.  Still, Arguing for Atheism is an outstanding atheist introduction to philosophy of religion that is well worth purchasing. -- Jeffery Jay Lowder	1997-05-15
US	53059603	R98NAMEIRGH9M	0830816984	807016341	The Creation Hypothesis: Scientific Evidence for an Intelligent Designer	Books	4	23	27	N	N	Well-written critique of naturalistic evolution	In this book J.P. Moreland and a panel of scholars assert that there is actually substantial evidence pointing towards intelligent design. First, they consider philosophical arguments about whether it is possible for us to know if an intelligent designer had a hand in creation. Then they look directly at four different areas of science: the origin of life, the origin of major groups of organisms, the origin of human language, and the origin and formation of the universe. This collection of original essays is perhaps the most significant formulation of the design argument yet written.   Jeffery Jay Lowder, Internet Infidels	1997-04-28
