US	53055592	R348EI3UTXAYNI	0425167453	715042913	The Insider's Guide to Managing Your Credit	Books	2	0	0	N	N	Nothing new...	Ask anyone, and they will tell you that the American system of credit is one of the toughest schemes for an individual to understand.  If, as it is my case, you are a foreigner, the problem only gets escalated to the maximum degree.  This is the type of book one turns to when in serious need of credit advice.  It is also, unfortunately, not as helpful as I was expecting it to be.  At one point, it honestly made think that I'd suddenly become the \\"expert\\" Ms. McNaughton claims one should be on the subject (Page 119). And I hadn't even been halfway through the book!<br /><br />The book is divided into three major parts:<br /><br />- Establishing credit<br /><br />- Dealing with credit problems<br /><br />- Credit restoration / Credit repair<br /><br />I found its main value in the numerous spreadsheets offered as a tracking tool for credit establishment and repair.  Thus, we have timed sheets to achieve different goals, forms to track current and applied for credit cards, reports to the local and major credit bureaus, debt tracking, etc.<br /><br />On Pages 116 through 118 there is an interesting but still kind of far-fetched idea about using 20 credit cards - yes, you read correctly, twenty! -  to make money out of a calculated scheme to obtain downpayment for a mortgage.  The process; however, seems complicated, and although I would agree with Ms. McNaughton that credit cards can actually be a good thing if used wisely, I found such suggestion on a book that technically has the purpose of teaching people how to better handle their credit issues a bit dangerous.  Moreover, the world of credit has changed since 1998 (when the book was written), and some information is inaccurate.  For example, Equifax no longer uses the criteria described on pages 84 and 85 in their reports.<br /><br />Overall, save your time and your money and research the web or contact Consumer Credit Counseling Services. Your credit will appreciate it.	2005-08-13
US	53055592	RLPAXMSL29RLA	1565109678	60649459	The Spread of Islam (Turning Points in World History)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	When in search of wisdom, look to the east...	\\"The spread of Islam\\" is a sort of study guide under the \\"Turning Points on World History\\" collection. The book is a collection of essays by recognized journalists and historians, most of them not embracers of the faith. It is so advised in the foreword, and it is a good way for the reader to measure the degree of impartiality each author has on the subject - or not.<br /><br />What is particularly interesting about a book like this is the insight it provides in what is commonly known as \\"la petite histoire\\". Thus, on page 14 we learn that ...\\" Muhammad's first visitation by an angel terrified and revulsed him. Thinking he had been possessed by the jinn\\"... \\"Shaking, Muhammad crawled on his hands and knees until he reached Khadija (his wife), asking her to cover him and shield him from the presence. She held him in her arms, soothed him and tried to take his fears away, the comfort she offered each time Muhammad saw visions and heard voices.\\" What a beautiful example of a supportive wife.<br /><br />Succeeding articles emphasize the much-preferred westernized notion of Islam as a faith established rather by the sword than by the word. In fact, in a world post-Osama Bin Laden, Islam seems to be a constant target for philosophers, historians and religious leaders alike to be blamed as a belligerent and intolerant faith, although in practice, its principles are openly conducive to peace. The deliverance of a new vision almost always generates controversy. In analizing the value of a doctrine, the general view of the historical context is vital. Prophet Muhammad (SAW) had a message. People could follow it or not; however, it was more than imperative that it be delivered. And it had to be delivered amidst a sociological system of usury and cruelty, where tolerance for different ideas was not only slashed, but it was also resisted to the extreme. What is a prophet to do, should we then ask, when he is not even given the option to be heard? Not only that, but he is prosecuted as a common criminal. The Gospels show us this almost constantly, to the extent that Jesus himself had to admit that \\"a prophet is never accepted in his own country\\". To paraphrase Gandhi (someone else worth listening to) first they hate you, then they laugh at you, then... you win.<br /><br />Central articles expound on the Golden Age of Baghdad from the 7th to the 12th century, during the period of the Abbasids. Those were the times for expansion of the arts on every level within the muslim world, the times that saw the construction of the Taj Majal in India, and the retelling of stories that would then become \\"The Thousand and One Nights\\"<br /><br />The book closes with articles referring to different political viewpoints within Islam, covering the Iranian Revolution of 1979, which deposed the Shah; and the plans for an Islamic Common Market, very much under the lines of the European Economic Community. These are all very scary ideas for the western world, where the typical idea of a muslim is equal almost always to someone born in any of the countries of the Arabian peninsula, who bathes once a week and has their neighbor for dessert. This perception is described on page 184: \\"...author Jack Shaheen provides examples of stereotyping. He notes the tendency to picture the Arab at different times as extremely wealthy, cruel, stupid, oriented toward the use of terror, and generally unattractive. The stereotypic pattern which categorizes whole peoples has thus put the Arab and his religion in the role of villain.\\"<br /><br />The last essay offers a perspective into the daily life of a muslim woman living in America, and an Appendix, which provides further illumination with sides stories about verses of the Holy Qu'ran, poetry about the forbidden pleasures of drinking, a cooking recipe in the form of a poetical stanza, and other curiosities. Last, but not least, we find some very good advice from a long lost Persian King to his son: \\"Rather become known for veracity, so that if ever in an emergency you utter a lie it will be believed.\\" (Page 210)for veracity, so that if ever in an emergency you utter a lie it will be believed.\\" (Page 210)	2005-05-30
US	53055592	R2I8B4OZE2OVVH	0933511795	398890630	Towards Understanding Islam	Books	5	21	24	N	N	Understand the basics before further digging	Although Abul A'la Mawdudi is usually referred to as a controversial scholar, no one can deny that in \\"Towards understanding Islam\\" he succeeds in presenting the doctrine in a succinct and clear way for both Muslims and non-Muslims alike. He discusses a wide variety of problems, such as political, economic, cultural, social and theological; while attempting to state who the teachings of Islam are related to them. An extremely productive writer, who produced more than 120 books, A'la Mawdudi is known for his tenacious adherence to his ideas regardless how much controversy they may arise. On a world as controversial as the Islamic one, this trait just oozes character, and who can resist that?<br /><br />This book was given to me as a present when I expressed an interest in Islam. Personal reasons aside, I dare say that no one can deny the logic that exists in its doctrine. Once we're pass the \\"hijab\\" or head-dress for women as a way of subjugation, the separation that exists between them and men in public -unless they are related, the fact that it \\"just happens\\" to be the religion of the terrorists from 9/11, as well as the one from the \\"uncultured\\" people of the desert, etc.; we can finally allow ourselves to come to the realization that what is revealed in The Holy Qu'ran just has to be true, simply because it makes absolute, logical sense. And, just like Aristotle would more or less say, the human mind tends to accept naturally whatever is logical.<br /><br />Thus, the book exposes the firm belief in the existence of the one true God, a necessary source to keep men from using their own resources or talents against each other. This was revealed through the prophethood of Muhammad (SAW); an illiterate man with a heart of gold, the patience of a saint and a soul as pure as that of a child. \\"He was the one whose example and teachings inspired the thoughts of the oneness of mankind, the equality of the human race, the concepts of true democracy and real freedom in the world.\\" (Page 63) Try that for those who qualify Islam as a religion solely based on Fundamentalism. The two final chapters on Islamic Law, Jurisprudence and Mysticism - although concise, provide a wealth of information about how the moral system of Islam works and what its bases are. They refer not just to individual but moral conduct of men, women, family and community.<br /><br />I found the work a good bedrock to go on the hunt for more. I would recommend to anyone either interested in learning about Islam or taking it up as his or her religion, to first read this book before reading the Holy Qu'ran. It would give you a full, rounded picture of what to expect and what it is all about.<br /><br />Should this be your first book about Islam? Not necessarily. Should it be your last? Most likely not. It should, however, be one you read at some point. And mark it down, because you'll keep referring to it as a source for discussion further discussion.Try that for those who qualify Islam as a religion solely based on Fundamentalism. The two final chapters on Islamic Law, Jurisprudence and Mysticism - although concise, provide a wealth of information about how the moral system of Islam works and what its bases are. They refer not just to individual but moral conduct of men, women, family and community.    I found the work a good bedrock to go on the hunt for more. I would recommend to anyone either interested in learning about Islam or taking it up as his or her religion, to first read this book before reading the Holy Qu'ran. It would give you a full, rounded picture of what to expect and what it is all about.    Should this be your first book about Islam? Not necessarily. Should it be your last? Most likely not. It should, however, be one you read at some point. And mark it down, because you'll keep referring to it as a source for discussion further discussion.	2005-03-05
US	53055592	ROUG7EP4N2C6E	0312114397	883442514	A Time for the Death of a King	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The King is dead... was it the Queen?	It is always fun to figure out whodunit in a mystery that has been left unsolved for centuries. In \\"A time for the death of a King\\", Ann Dukthas presents a very plausible solution to the murder of Lord Darnley, the second husband of Mary, Queen of Scots. What seems very romantic to me about Mary is the fact that, although she had the true Royal Blue blood that Elizabeth I lacked, she was to be Queen of England, Scotland, France and the Isles; she would - should have - been the most powerful Monarch in the medieval world and yet... for some obscure fateful reason, she didn't get to be. On Mary's behalf, I find that speaks a lot about her character. When she walked into England she practically gave herself up to her cousin. As Dukthas says at the end of the book, she was very likely tired from running (who wouldn't be?), tired of all the politicking around her, and wanted to live a life of peace, in a sort of quiet retirement. She would probably have achieved this, should she not have been who she actually was. Mary represented a great danger to the English Queen - or rather the English interests - and had to be given the ax, literally.<br /><br />This historical whodunit offers superb plotting and a deep, dark look into the masterminds that rule our powerful world. It is unbelievable how far people will go in their conquest of power, be it for a goodness or an evil reason. Dukthas is also a superb descriptor of the era, bringing us inside the palaces, making us watch the famous masques:  \\"They watched as a great shipped constructed especially for the masque about the Merovingians, those long-haired Kings of France who ruled the country long before the Valois were ever heard of\\"  (Page 26); and providing explicit details of the luxuries such as perfumes, clothing materials (\\"...those popinjays, dressed in their yards of shot red and yellow taffeta, gold damask suits, jerkins edged with silver and white Florentine serge stockings.\\" - page 20); and delicious foods, that will send you mouthwatering to research history of fashion as well as for a glass of the best garnet you can afford. Such descriptions abound, but what is really touching is Mary, the Queen as a character in all her vulnerability. Regardless what her personality was in real life, her humanity in Dukthas' portrayal is so vivid, it fleshes her out as unique. Even the cover art is commendable, showing a haunted Queen of Scots in all her regalia, looking over her shoulder, as her husband lies dead in the orchard.<br /><br />The story takes us to the events of February 1567, that Sunday, the last night of the Carnival festivities, when Kirk o'Field blew up into a pile of ruble and Mary's husband and his personal aide were found dead in the orchard adjacent to the property. Dead they were, but hardly from such explosion. The bodies had no marks on them, no sign of a struggle, they seem \\"to be lying peacefully asleep,\\" as many eyewitness accounts are reported to have said. Regardless of what really happened, this crime was no doubt the beginning of the end for Mary. However, as she embroidered in a handkerchief during her long captivity: \\"In the end is My Beginning.\\" (Her son James succeeded Elizabeth I to the throne of England).<br /><br />Dukthas introduces quite a novelty theme when choosing the sleuth as well. Nicholas Segalla is a Jesuit priest who lives in Paris, France, at the service of Archbishop Beacon, who was Mary's real envoy in that country at the time. He entrusts Segalla with a fictitious wife and a servant to take a personal letter to Mary, where he warns her of danger and dark days ahead. What starts as a simple courier mission develops into that of avenging angel, and nothing the more suitable for someone like Segalla who, just like the fictional Highlander Duncan McLeod, has been in his thirties for the past 400 years! Segalla is a time traveler who has lived many lives, and will present himself to scholar Dukthas time and again with solutions to the most famous, unsolved murder mysteries of all time.der mysteries of all time.	2004-03-14
US	53055592	RIGH3WAOP3T06	0312988222	321990786	Cover-Up Story (St. Martin's Minotaur Mysteries)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	First Babson mystery does not live up to par	A most unusual mystery, this first one by Marian Babson, will surprise as much as amuse. Doug Perkins and Gerry Tate are partners in the PR firm of Perkins & Tate, Ltd.; in cosmopolitan 70's London. They have a few mom-and-pop accounts that just allow them to eat decently, when the \\"big one\\" lands on their lap. They are to handle the PR for a top country music band on tour from the States, by the name of Black Bart and the Cousins. Their hit single \\"Homesteader\\" is on everyone's lips. Black Bart, on the other hand, will be on Doug and Gerry's nerves for the rest of the job. He is a repulsive, red neck hillbilly from the Ozarks, who yells his orders despotically and basically mistreats everybody around him including, but not limited to, his sister Crystal (married to one of the band), and his own wife Lou-Ann, who acts as a comedienne throughout the show.  The story is presented as a VH1 \\"Behind the Music\\" episode, as if following the history of any famous band. But it \\"ain't jest plain sailin'\\" with the band as it all seems. Black Bart has an indictment for child molestation in the US that must be kept out of the press; hence the rather surreptitious need for a tour. Half way through the book, Lou-Ann's mother is run over (accidentally?) by a cabbie and, after a few hours in the hospital, she dies. It was at this point in the book that I wondered if I was reading a mystery or just a plain script for a TV movie. Of course, Maw Cooney (that is the victim's name) was murdered, but one wouldn't know it if it weren't for the jacket blurb. The fact that the old woman's last words are: \\"That bastard pushed me!\\" (page 103), are not to be taken into account, as any mystery fan would be wise to interpret; especially when, as Doug Perkins puts it, \\"they're all bastards.\\"<br /><br />I have to admit the characters are extremely well portrayed. I'll go even further and say any reader could single them out in a crowd after finishing the book,  were they real. The dialogues are excellent, reflecting all those American inflexions from the rural South like \\"... ye com' down hea!...\\" and \\"... ye jest don't know, y'all...\\" Black Bart is the villain we all love to hate, and he is by far the best-portrayed character. This is good, since he is the center of the story. His wife Lou-Ann, is the typical innocent, talented young girl exploited by everyone including her own mother. Her ill-fated mother reminded me of Jonbenet Ramsey's: the typical stage parent who pushes her child to the limits of stardom, and usually pushes too much. The Cousins are a number by themselves, they just play whenever Bart snarls a few words at them, the rest of the time behaving like the typical illiterates they are.<br /><br />Why a hillbilly band from Nashville would be a rocking success in England is beyond me, but then again, the whole novel is to me quite... strange. I would have preferred a more glamorously presented narrative for the idea of a cozy within the Public Relations world. Likewise, a mystery within the music industry is an appealing idea - and one that I haven't seen taken upon by writers yet - but all the same, the setting should, again, be fleshed out rather differently, maybe showing the band while composing new songs, the tour arrangements and the promotional interviews, to name but a few.<br /><br />The d&eacute;nouement comes naturally, but the question remains. Is this a good mystery cozy? From the technical point of view, it is. But for some reason, it just didn't fulfill me. Babson wraps the story up at the end with a tide-in for the next one in the series, where Perkins & Tate will be contracted to manage the PR for a high profile cat show. Hopefully, it will be more forthcoming and less odd than this one.reflecting all those American inflexions from the rural South like \\"... ye com' down hea!...\\" and \\"... ye jest don't know, y'all...\\" Black Bart is the villain we all love to hate, and he is by far the best-portrayed character. This is good, since he is the center of the story. His wife Lou-Ann, is the typical innocent, talented young girl exploited by everyone including her own mother. Her ill-fated mother reminded me of Jonbenet Ramsey's: the typical stage parent who pushes her child to the limits of stardom, and usually pushes too much. The Cousins are a number by themselves, they just play whenever Bart snarls a few words at them, the rest of the time behaving like the typical illiterates they are.    Why a hillbilly band from Nashville would be a rocking success in England is beyond me, but then again, the whole novel is to me quite... strange. I would have preferred a more glamorously presented narrative for the idea of a cozy within the Public Relations world. Likewise, a mystery within the music industry is an appealing idea - and one that I haven't seen taken upon by writers yet - but all the same, the setting should, again, be fleshed out rather differently, maybe showing the band while composing new songs, the tour arrangements and the promotional interviews, to name but a few.    The dnouement comes naturally, but the question remains. Is this a good mystery cozy? From the technical point of view, it is. But for some reason, it just didn't fulfill me. Babson wraps the story up at the end with a tide-in for the next one in the series, where Perkins & Tate will be contracted to manage the PR for a high profile cat show. Hopefully, it will be more forthcoming and less odd than this one.	2004-02-22
US	53055592	RQKVBA4XB1DZT	0425178560	437983418	A Bicycle Built For Murder	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A bland beginning	The Manor House mysteries are a relatively new series by author Doreen Roberts writing under the pen name of Kate Kingsbury. In this, the first title in the series, we are introduced to Lady Elizabeth Hartleigh Compton, lady of the Manor and, of course, amateur sleuth. She is the perfect, old-fashioned English lady who always wears a hat and skirts - never trousers - drinks tea as often as it is offered to her; and \\"...often thought how wonderful it must have been to live in an age when women were cherished and pampered.\\" (page 13) Although her thoughts are clearly Victorian, Lady Elizabeth knows how to take the bull by the horns when the occasion calls for it; after all \\"...the ability to command attention (...) was the only way to get things done.\\" (page 3)<br />  It's WWII, and the idyllic village of Sitting Marsh is experiencing all the backlash: food rationing, constant worry, and the added stress for the locals to have to deal with Americans, whom are considered \\"barbarians\\" (page 8). Problems arise simultaneously for Elizabeth: on the one hand, she is told about the disappearance (and subsequent murder) of a local girl; on the other, she is approached by the American Major of the Regiment assigned to the village, with an order coming directly from the War Office, clearly stating that she is to surrender her house to be quarters for the American soldiers. Elizabeth is tangled in a web of murder and rivalries in the role of keeper of the peace between the locals - with her own housekeeper and senile butler in tow - when the murdered girl's mother approaches her with a special request: to find her daughter's killer. Elizabeth, as lady of the Manor, cannot say no. The reader will accompany Elizabeth in her errands to find information, savoring all the typical English camaraderie, which consists mainly, of lots of tea and \\"proper\\" gossip. I did enjoy the idea of the Manor House as center for a typical British cozy; however, the whole idea of the war distracted me in my search for it. Experiencing some of the frustration Elizabeth feels when trying to interpret the clues she finds, I just couldn't find myself in the story. I was looking for a cozy mystery, but seemed to be reading a war story all the time (something I find personally boring). I also found out whodunit right before the end of the book; however, unless the reader is familiar with this type of story, he or she won't. I can only hope the next books in the series do not throw WWII into the story as much; but rather present it as a background.<br />  It is rather appropriate as well, that Kingsbury chose Norfolk as the geographical place for Sitting Marsh. The county of Norfolk has for a long time been one that Royalty has made their favorite for their private residences: Sandringham House, the Queen's winter retreat; and Park House, the place where Princess Diana grew up, are located in this part of the country.<br />  The dedication at the beginning of the book is probably one of the best ones I have come across: \\"This book is dedicated to the men, women, and children of Great Britain who kept the home fires burning during the Second World War with unswerving humor, unwavering courage, and the indispensable cup of tea.\\" Just by that, one can guess what's going to be on the plate right away.me in my search for it. Experiencing some of the frustration Elizabeth feels when trying to interpret the clues she finds, I just couldn't find myself in the story. I was looking for a cozy mystery, but seemed to be reading a war story all the time (something I find personally boring). I also found out whodunit right before the end of the book; however, unless the reader is familiar with this type of story, he or she won't. I can only hope the next books in the series do not throw WWII into the story as much; but rather present it as a background.<br />     It is rather appropriate as well, that Kingsbury chose Norfolk as the geographical place for Sitting Marsh. The county of Norfolk has for a long time been one that Royalty has made their favorite for their private residences: Sandringham House, the Queen's winter retreat; and Park House, the place where Princess Diana grew up, are located in this part of the country. <br />     The dedication at the beginning of the book is probably one of the best ones I have come across: \\"This book is dedicated to the men, women, and children of Great Britain who kept the home fires burning during the Second World War with unswerving humor, unwavering courage, and the indispensable cup of tea.\\" Just by that, one can guess what's going to be on the plate right away.	2003-12-28
US	53055592	R2FE0927PNBN37	0312963580	469093340	A Man Lay Dead (Dead Letter Mysteries)	Books	3	21	21	N	N	A beginner's classic cozy	Until now, I had never read anything by New Zealander Ngaio Marsh. Shall I ever again? Well, yes, especially when I feel in the mood for a `classic cozy'; and I mean that quite literally.  This is Detective Inspector Roderick Alleyn's first mystery. He has to be the most shrewdly charismatic of all the sleuths created during the Golden Era of mystery. In its most classic sense, \\"A man lay dead\\" takes place at an English country house. A party of five guests arrives for a weekend at Frantock, Sir Hubert Handesley's residence. Quite the tycoon, Handesley distinguishes himself in party planning and antique weapon collecting. One of his guests, Charles Rankin, brings with him not only his dull journalist cousin; but also a very old (and priceless) dagger of Mongolian origin. Upon perusal by Sir Handesley and the other guests during cocktails, the weapon appears to have a bloody past: it is believed to have been savagely used by some secret Russian organizations during the time of the Bolshevik revolts. Needless to say, after seeing the specimen Sir Hubert's mouth waters, his Russian butler disappears mysteriously, his only Russian guest, a Dr. Tokareff, starts acting weirdly then ever; and... Charles Rankin is stabbed in the back with the weapon during `The Murder Game', which was supposed to be the entertainment of the weekend. Thus, the innocently planned party becomes quite eerie, its guests more tense than ever; even though they all appear to have cast-iron alibis.<br />This first novel is somewhat general at times, but two thirds into it, I couldn't put it down. I found ingenious the way Marsh would not give away whodunit right up to the last two or three pages in the book. Alleyn keeps everyone on their toes during a constant guessing game, and even though at times he may appear disconcerting to everyone else involved - including the reader - he is very much in control of his ideas, suave as ever. I did find, however, that the Russian element in the story was pushed a bit too much. Even though the dagger does have a bloody past, it has really nothing to do in the end with the actual solving of the crime. In bringing on a complicated background of Russian espionage, Marsh confuses the reader with so many new characters and plot twists. In the end, it all goes back to the beginning - literally - to Frantock, where Alleyn, in a most dramatic display of his powers of persuasion, taunts the murderer into self discovery. I very much enjoyed reading the descriptions of the English country settings and the way the game is planned - perhaps I shall try it for my next party? No dagger, mind you - and I look forward to more Inspector Alleyn mysteries, where, due to Marsh's love of the theater; everything has quite a dramatic development.ed a bit too much. Even though the dagger does have a bloody past, it has really nothing to do in the end with the actual solving of the crime. In bringing on a complicated background of Russian espionage, Marsh confuses the reader with so many new characters and plot twists. In the end, it all goes back to the beginning - literally - to Frantock, where Alleyn, in a most dramatic display of his powers of persuasion, taunts the murderer into self discovery. I very much enjoyed reading the descriptions of the English country settings and the way the game is planned - perhaps I shall try it for my next party? No dagger, mind you - and I look forward to more Inspector Alleyn mysteries, where, due to Marsh's love of the theater; everything has quite a dramatic development.	2003-12-07
US	53055592	R1KN3BBUJSM1SS	0451187717	306316700	A Deadly Judgment (Murder She Wrote)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A court trial in historical Boston	Even though I thought the fifth installment in the \\"Murder, she wrote\\" mystery series by Donald Bain would be a tiresome one, I enjoyed myself thoroughly. In this novel, Jessica is off to historical Boston, Maine, to work as a Jury Consultant in a famous murder trial, under the invitation of her famous lawyer friend Malcolm McCloon. The book has been written during the O.J. Simpson trial and therefore, transmits all the notoriety of a high profile case: the defendant is the younger of two brothers of a nation-wide company called \\"Brannigan's Baked Beans\\" (I don't know why I kept thinking of \\"Bush's Baked Beans\\") The case gets really complicated when the defendant's girlfriend - and his only alibi - gets killed, stabbed through the heart.<br />Jessica is not too eager at taking the job at first, but it's almost too good an offer to decline after her publisher asks her to base her next novel on a court trial \\"to increase sales\\" (is Jessica Fletcher also suffering the backlash of the bad economy?). Faster than you can say \\"murder', Jessica is off for a prolonged, indulging stay at the famous Ritz-Carlton, taking walks through Copley Place and eating gourmet dinners at the most famous restaurants and bars the city has to offer, all compliments of a high paying client.<br />The killer, however, is very close to Jessica's toes and her life is in danger when she starts digging deeper after the subsequent deaths of two jurors who were, apparently, favoring the defense team she is working for. Undeterred, she keeps going until, finally - and using terminology worthy of Johnnie Cochran and Marsha Clark - she solves the murder(s) during a hearing.<br />The book finishes rather abruptly, but I did like the way the author presented a court trial novel without loosing that \\"cozy\\" touch. It reminded me of my own stay in Boston, a long time ago, when I could still afford such a life of luxury!	2003-11-06
US	53055592	R4KTMRGPVYZ4I	0871161966	404222606	Writer's Handbook 2003 (Writer's Handbook)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A writer's best friend	This is a veeeery long book, but it's most definitely worth it for any writer, and I recommend purchasing it on an annual basis. Before I decided on a market guide for the writing craft, I compared this book to \\"Writer's Market\\", by the editors of Writer's Digest magazine; and I must say that I love their bookclub, but \\"The Writer's Handbook 2003\\" is the guide that I picked up for me. Nowadays, competitiveness is everywhere, and in a market so vast and varied as the one for the writing craft, one needs a guide that feels also like a close friend. Thank God I found it in this big book (my copy is full of colored flags sticking out of it, marking my choices for submission, conferences I'd like to attend, etc).<br />The first part includes selected articles that at some point or another have been previously published throughout the year in \\"The Writer\\" magazine. Everything from inspirational ideas, to legal advice on copyright and selling your material through the different magazines and agents, advice for poets, etc. There is also an article on how to better set up your website, something that is no longer an option but a \\"must\\" as a promotional tool; plus conversations with famous authors. The different listings include non-fiction and fiction magazines, with as much information as possible on requirements, website, editor's name, etc.; book publishers, agents, arts councils and syndicates, writer's colonies and conferences, prizes and awards, drama and theater, TV and film producers; even greeting card publishers.<br />I recommend purchasing this guide on an annual basis or, at least bi-annually; if the price comes to be a bit too stiff for you. All the same, it can become your best friend.	2003-10-06
US	53055592	R25SA8CYHPD131	0451192990	65773524	Absolution by Murder (A Sister Fidelma Mystery) (Mystery of Ancient Ireland)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Relive the glory of the ancient Celts on the hand of Fidelma	In the first Sister Fidelma mystery, writer Peter Ellis - writing under the pen name of Peter Tremayne - takes us on a fantastic and memorable journey to the time of the rivalries between the ancient Celt and Saxon tribes of England. The mystery is set against the historical background of the debate between the Celtic and Roman Church factions at Whitby back in AD 664. Oswy, the current King of Northumbria, has called this big assembly at Streoneshalh Abbey, a place directed by his cousin, the Abbess Hilda. Important representatives and religieuses from all over Ireland, Britain and Rome are arriving at the Abbey with the purpose of determining once and for all which Church the Kingdom of Northumbria will follow. Sister Fidelma, an advocate of the courts of Ireland, is also in attendance. When she arrives, she meets with her long time friend, Abbess &Eacute;tain of Kildare. Known for her culture and eloquence, she is to be the opener speaker for the Celtic faction. However, when the debate opens, Abbess &Eacute;tain's seat is empty. A few moments later, she is found dead in her cubiculum, her throat slashed. It is immediately suspected that the opposition would be the culprit, but is it? And more importantly, how to prove it?<br />The King of Northumbria, on learning about Fidelma's position as a d&aacute;laigh of the Irish Courts, urges her to bring the murderer to justice. Since rumours are already starting to circulate, no time is to be lost. The country is on the brink of Civil War. Fidelma agrees, and in so doing she accepts the condition imposed by the King of having the crime investigated in conjunction with a representative of the Roman faction, a Saxon by the name of Brother Eadulf. Thus forms one of the most famous partnerships in history for the purpose of solving crimes. Fidelma and Eadulf, even though at first they resent each other, grow attached to one another in the end. They feel a great affinity and are a perfect match. As the Manchester Evening News put it, Sister Fidelma is \\"quite a girl.\\" Eadulf is delighted in his task of a companion who offers support, but is clearly Fidelma who decides on the best course of action. The pair work smoothly together and, in the end, they both realize how much one supported the other.<br />The historical setting, the descriptions of the Abbey and the customs of the period deserve a mention of their own. Ellis is a scholar of the period, having written numerous volumes about the ancient Celts, the Druids and other early tribes; and one can tell he knows his task as if he had actually lived in the period. I found fascinating the fact that in the ancient Irish Church celibacy was not contemplated, or that women in ancient Ireland had as many possibilities to hold a Public Office rank as men. Also unlike nowadays, a Public position was based on merit, not heredity.<br />This is a most promising series that I would like to see made into a mini-series of some sort in the future, such as Ellis Peters' Brother Cadfael. There's a lot of detail and material to cover, and I cannot wait for the second installment, where, as per the end of this one, Sister Fidelma finds herself fortuitously on her road to Rome... accompanying Brother Eadulf's party.Fidelma is \\"quite a girl.\\" Eadulf is delighted in his task of a companion who offers support, but is clearly Fidelma who decides on the best course of action. The pair work smoothly together and, in the end, they both realize how much one supported the other.<br />The historical setting, the descriptions of the Abbey and the customs of the period deserve a mention of their own. Ellis is a scholar of the period, having written numerous volumes about the ancient Celts, the Druids and other early tribes; and one can tell he knows his task as if he had actually lived in the period. I found fascinating the fact that in the ancient Irish Church celibacy was not contemplated, or that women in ancient Ireland had as many possibilities to hold a Public Office rank as men. Also unlike nowadays, a Public position was based on merit, not heredity. <br />This is a most promising series that I would like to see made into a mini-series of some sort in the future, such as Ellis Peters' Brother Cadfael. There's a lot of detail and material to cover, and I cannot wait for the second installment, where, as per the end of this one, Sister Fidelma finds herself fortuitously on her road to Rome... accompanying Brother Eadulf's party.	2003-07-17
US	53055592	R15SR9OXAOMIRD	1582342849	537404137	Sixpence House: Lost in A Town Of Books	Books	3	7	15	N	N	Not lost, not in a town of books, not ever...	When I finished Paul Collins' book \\"Sixpence House\\" I had a similar feeling as to when I read \\"The absence of nectar\\", by Kathy Hepinstall. Although the stories have nothing in common (they're not even in the same genre for the matter), the feeling of disappointment I experienced was the same. Although I think in Collins' case is even stronger, because of the expectations I had on the book. My shrink - yes, I had one! - once told me that expectations are a bad thing. Why? Because of what happens when things don't turn up as expected. Usually a strong feeling of desolation creeps in. And that is exactly what happened to me with \\"Sixpence House\\".<br />  Let me just say, it is not a bad book. It's not badly written either - although the prose could use some help here and there. It's just not a narrative of someone \\"lost in a town of books\\", as the subtitle proclaims. First of all, it's not about the old abandoned pub that bears the same name in Hay-on-Wye. True, the author and his wife attempt to buy it while house-hunting there, but this occurs only in one chapter - rather late in the book, I must say. Secondly, it's not a book about being lost in this famous booktown either. As he points out several times, Collins had been there before as a tourist (that's what prompted him to choose Hay as his next area of residence), and as a matter of fact he knows his way around the town very well. It appears to be, however, the story of someone at a loss with what to do with his life - Collins doesn't seem to have a straight job, except for the proofreading of his first book; and at a loss with his own thoughts. Only about half the book is about the famous Welsh town and its characters. The other half... well, it's hard to say what it's about or why it's been included in the book in the first place; to the point that I found Collins' affinity for neologisms takes over him, as he himself states: \\"I am very good at coining neologisms when free plane tickets are involved.\\" (Page 10); and thus making you wander how much of his appreciations are not of his own invention. Collins keeps on reminiscing about almost anything that comes to his mind; which would be fine, but then the title of the book should have been something like \\"Reminiscences of my life during my stay in Hay-on-Wye\\", or something of the sort. What really disappointed me to its fullest was the end. I'm not going to give it away out of sheer literary etiquette, but I'll just say that if I had been blessed with the possibility of moving to Wales, well...<br />  As the strong fan that I am of everything Welsh and, as a typical bibliophile, as fascinated as I feel about the concept of the \\"booktown\\", I was hoping for a story about IT, with the author's impressions yes; but nevertheless a story about Hay-on-Wye, its people and its history. Instead, this book sounds like the kind of propaganda written by the typical son of British immigrants who favors the American way of life for no other reason than the fact that it is in a different continent where it does not rain as much. If you want to find out about this wonderful town, I would recommend Richard Booth's book \\"My Kingdom of Books\\". Even though it's now out of print, it will make for more enjoyable, focused reading.10); and thus making you wander how much of his appreciations are not of his own invention. Collins keeps on reminiscing about almost anything that comes to his mind; which would be fine, but then the title of the book should have been something like \\"Reminiscences of my life during my stay in Hay-on-Wye\\", or something of the sort. What really disappointed me to its fullest was the end. I'm not going to give it away out of sheer literary etiquette, but I'll just say that if I had been blessed with the possibility of moving to Wales, well...<br />      As the strong fan that I am of everything Welsh and, as a typical bibliophile, as fascinated as I feel about the concept of the \\"booktown\\", I was hoping for a story about IT, with the author's impressions yes; but nevertheless a story about Hay-on-Wye, its people and its history. Instead, this book sounds like the kind of propaganda written by the typical son of British immigrants who favors the American way of life for no other reason than the fact that it is in a different continent where it does not rain as much. If you want to find out about this wonderful town, I would recommend Richard Booth's book \\"My Kingdom of Books\\". Even though it's now out of print, it will make for more enjoyable, focused reading.	2003-07-08
US	53055592	R35962VOSAWFLF	0425166422	695014980	Evans Above (Constable Evans, Book 1)	Books	3	26	26	N	N	Read it for the pleasure of the Welsh culture	The first installment in the Constable Evans series of Welsh mysteries introduces us to the quiet village of Llanfair, at the foot of mount Snowdon in Northern Wales. With its slate blue cottages and warm townsfolk, it is the last place on earth for murder. Or is it? Faster than you can say \\"bore da\\" (the Welsh \\"hello\\"), Constable Evan Evans - \\"You can't get more Welsh than that, can you?\\" (Page 213) - is whisked away from his weekly sermon at church when the terrible deaths of two apparent climbers take place at the famous mountain, quite furtively. An investigation immediately opens but Constable Evans doesn't get much help. He has to deal with some eccentric superiors who would not accept his hunches about the two deaths being connected, even though they happened in two different spots at Mount Snowdon.<br />Poor Evans doesn't have it easier on his personal turf either. Two local women are on his track: one exuberant barmaid and a demure school teacher who are at each other's throats over him, a landlady who overfeeds him Welsh delicacies, and the local minister's wife, who expects him to be at her beck-and-call for everything from tomato theft to flowerbed trampling.<br />This is a complex mystery that starts off with two murders, but it develops into an engaging puzzle of disappearances, child crimes, robbery, etc.; where Constable Evans always tries to find \\"a connection\\". As the book progresses, this becomes his mantra, as the confusion increases and the so called connection seems most elusive, but it's always lurking in the background, until it eventually turns up.<br />I didn't find the denouement all that fair to the reader. As a matter of fact, it is impossible to discover whodunit on the book's evidence alone because a vital piece of information is missing until, all of a sudden, we're confronted with the murderer. Withholding information in a mystery is a serious crime (get it?). The evidence, the clues, must all be well hidden and sometimes even presented deceptively; but they must always be there, and the reader must be able to sense them. This is not so in \\"Evans Above\\". Luckily, however, this country cozy is entertaining enough, when at the same time reflects the fierce nationalism that makes this part of the UK stand as a land on its own. The local customs and the spirit of the people come through, giving the book its true value. As it says in the prologue, one doesn't think of Wales as a foreign country, but in fact it is. It is one of those places I'd like to visit some day, and, thanks to books like this one, I know I'll keep it in my heart.ented deceptively; but they must always be there, and the reader must be able to sense them. This is not so in \\"Evans Above\\". Luckily, however, this country cozy is entertaining enough, when at the same time reflects the fierce nationalism that makes this part of the UK stand as a land on its own. The local customs and the spirit of the people come through, giving the book its true value. As it says in the prologue, one doesn't think of Wales as a foreign country, but in fact it is. It is one of those places I'd like to visit some day, and, thanks to books like this one, I know I'll keep it in my heart.	2003-06-27
US	53055592	R2DE9H4I9UAQGL	0451167872	67258222	A Cat in the Manger (An Alice Nestleton Mystery)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Theater combined with cat-sitting? Absolutely!	Do you love cats? Do you dream of cold winter days lying cozily on your chaise, a cup of hot cocoa beside you? Do you love cozy mysteries  If you answered yes to all of the above, then the new Alice Nestleton series by Lydia Adamson are the right stuff for you. This is a light but highly inventive mystery and I can tell it will be a successful series. In this first installment, we are introduced to a courageous sleuth by the name of Alice Nestleton. She is an off-off-Broadway actress, who is trying to move away from the classical Shakespeare plays and into the new avant-garde theatre. In the meantime, she supplements her vocation with cat-sitting around New York. As befitting a cat-lover, Alice has two cats: a Maine Coon named Bushy, and a frightened, domestic gray shorthair she rescued from the ASPCA by the name of Pancho.  It's Christmas time and Alice is preparing for her annual cat-sitting job in a run-down horse-farm near the Hamptons, taking care of eight Himalayans for Harry and Jo Starobin; he a famous ex-cat judge and champion animal lover, she his faithful wife. When Harry fails to pick her up at the local train station as previously arranged, Alice is intrigued. She finds her own way to the farm via a taxi. Upon arrival, Alice finds things eerily normal, but it is only when she starts to get settled into her cottage that she finds Harry's corpse hanging from the back of the door.  When a second murder happens to one of Harry's friends who lived just down the road, Alice puts her powers of deduction to work. She will have to deal with a pestering detective, Starobin's grieving widow and his young lover who surreptitiously disappears along with a calico barn cat and all her kittens. A connection? Maybe. Alice decides the case is worth investigating when Jo Starobin shows her a very large sum of money her husband left without explanation of how he got it. In order to solve the case, Alice will put her own life at risk, entering into high-stakes involving horse-racing and special cat genetics, geared toward producing miraculous mascots in the shape of calico cats.<br />\\"A cat in the manger\\" has the perfect mix of cat lore and sleuthing. I especially enjoyed the way the cats are very much at the center of the story, but they do not possess special powers. This leaves a good balance for the main character - the sleuth - to play her role naturally.  Ms. Adamson obviously knows her craft very well, which involves not only the world of cats, but how to develop a good story thanks to what I sense is a background in the theatre industry.se-racing and special cat genetics, geared toward producing miraculous mascots in the shape of calico cats.<br />\\"A cat in the manger\\" has the perfect mix of cat lore and sleuthing. I especially enjoyed the way the cats are very much at the center of the story, but they do not possess special powers. This leaves a good balance for the main character - the sleuth - to play her role naturally.  Ms. Adamson obviously knows her craft very well, which involves not only the world of cats, but how to develop a good story thanks to what I sense is a background in the theatre industry.	2003-06-23
US	53055592	R1P4WRSK99HOVN	0768910803	775486788	How to Write Book Reports 4E	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Reviewing made easy... and fun!	For all of us who have reviewing as a hobby - and especially for college students, to whom this work is targeted to a text that shows the correct way to present an opinion is a godsend. In today's world, most of us are eager to express our feelings, to communicate our own impressions on everything that surrounds us. Sadly, a lot of our credibility slips through the cracks because of our own inability to present a valid argument, independently of it being true or not (after all, who owns The Truth?). As stated in Chapter 1, under the title of &quot;The rewards of writing reviews&quot;, &quot;You will learn to analyze your tastes, your likes, and dislikes, and back up your statements of opinion with sound reasoning&quot; (Page 4).<br />  &quot;How to write book reports&quot; includes all the tools and suggestions needed for effective reviewing. I liked very much the idea of presenting the &quot;History of the Essay&quot;, as a reference on how it all began, since right up to the sixteenth century, as the author points out, everything that was considered culturally acceptable was always written in verse. It was since then, that qualified reviewers had been relied upon for almost everything mankind has been interested in trying. Sova devotes a whole chapter to the qualifications of the reviewer, be he an expert scholar or a starting student looking for good grades. Organization is the key not only of effective review-writing but also of everything that makes a good impression. The book divides the actual task of writing the report into three phases: preparing, organizing and writing it, providing in this way an actual blueprint for a flawless work. There are also suggestions on how to review the different literary genres, and an Appendix with further exercises to be done either orally or written, to provide fresh outlooks to the task. To give practical examples, a few sample reviews are provided; of a novel, a play, a short-story collection and a biography.<br /><br />  I hesitated at first about buying this slim volume because I saw it too high school, instead of professionally, oriented. Once I looked at its contents, I felt almost sure I had made a good choice. After having started to read it, I knew I had indeed purchased a simple but valuable volume. The book takes the fear (and boredom as well), out of reviewing assignments. The techniques suggested can be applied not only to literature but to anything related to art and culture, e.g.: music, cinema, graphic arts, etc. Dawn Sova intends to make the task of writing reviews an enjoyable experience, as she puts it herself &quot;Reading, especially outside reading, should be fun&quot; (Page 3). Throughout the book and in only ninety pages, she achieves this with a bang.<br /><br />  As a final suggestion, I would also recommend that you visit the publisher's website, called The Education Supersite, especially if you are just starting your own college period. It can be an invaluable resource as well if you are planning to go back to school, to find out about everything from financial aid to test preparation and universities that offer all types of online degrees.BR>     I hesitated at first about buying this slim volume because I saw it too high school, instead of professionally, oriented. Once I looked at its contents, I felt almost sure I had made a good choice. After having started to read it, I knew I had indeed purchased a simple but valuable volume. The book takes the fear (and boredom as well), out of reviewing assignments. The techniques suggested can be applied not only to literature but to anything related to art and culture, e.g.: music, cinema, graphic arts, etc. Dawn Sova intends to make the task of writing reviews an enjoyable experience, as she puts it herself &quot;Reading, especially outside reading, should be fun&quot; (Page 3). Throughout the book and in only ninety pages, she achieves this with a bang.<BR>     <BR>     As a final suggestion, I would also recommend that you visit the publisher's website, called The Education Supersite, especially if you are just starting your own college period. It can be an invaluable resource as well if you are planning to go back to school, to find out about everything from financial aid to test preparation and universities that offer all types of online degrees.	2003-06-12
US	53055592	RSNGETH3P7FDI	0321115627	532989911	Adobe Photoshop 7.0 Classroom in a Book	Books	3	47	49	N	N	There are better &quot;classrooms&quot; that you can attend	After days of reading and experimenting with each lesson, I have finally finished this thick tome of Adobe's &quot;Classroom in a Book Series&quot; for Photoshop 7.0. The book is divided into eighteen lessons and includes a CD (for both Windows and Macintosh), where the corresponding files - and even additional system fonts - can be found for each lesson. The book is designed to be read in the order presented or the lessons can also be skipped at the reader?s convenience. In my particular case, I wanted to re-learn the program due to the fact that when I first studied Photoshop, its current version was 3.0. Much (almost everything) has changed since then, so this sort of introduction was a good idea. It is, however, not more than an introduction, and if you should expect to become a pro by just going through every aspect of this book, you are much mistaken. Adobe Photoshop 7.0 is in itself a very complex and immensely rich program, which I believe to be almost limitless in possibilities of image manipulation. Sometimes I even think that not even its numerous creators know what one dedicated user can achieve with it; and this book will teach a superficial approach to the program. Will you wonder? Of course you will, but only at the possibilities of your imagination. That said, I also have to add that the book is in parts inaccurate. For example, on Lesson 12, the Distort Filter does not produce the rippled effect on the Dandelion that the book says it should and if applied in such a way, one will end up with a rippled border around all the image, taking it off its quadrant and making it look really bad. Pros will realize, however, that a simple selection around the area destined for the effect to appear will suffice; but alas, it is not in the book!<br />  Inaccuracies like this aside, I'd recommend a more in depth source, such as the &quot;Adobe Photoshop 7.0 Studio Techniques&quot; book, or even the fantastic &quot;Adobe Photoshop 7.0 WOW! Book&quot;, both excellent sources for the development of skills and stimulation of the imagination.  Another plus of these last two books is that they come in full color, something that I appreciate, especially on highly priced volumes such as this one. After spending all that time and effort, one deserves color...llent sources for the development of skills and stimulation of the imagination.  Another plus of these last two books is that they come in full color, something that I appreciate, especially on highly priced volumes such as this one. After spending all that time and effort, one deserves color...	2003-05-24
US	53055592	R3E9ZNP1CV7B34	0764539159	338317248	Mac OS X Illustrated: A Design Graphic Field Guide	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Best Mac OS X Reference Book of the Year	Even though I've been a Macintosh user since 1995, when I got my new iMac I knew from the first time I plugged it in that I was entering a totally different territory. The lustrous Aqua interface, the fact that it now supports different user profiles, the organization of the System in general, iTunes, iMovie, iCal... I knew at once there was much to be discovered. I started to look around for a guide that would tell me about the new Mac OS X without boundaries, and when I came across &quot;Mac OS X Illustrated&quot;, by the people of Australian &quot;Design Graphics&quot; magazine, I knew I had found it.<br />  This is an awesome book. With realistic, full color drawings, superb print quality and minimalistic text, it achieves its purpose: to provide a wholesome tour of Apple's new system in a way deep enough for one to be comfortable with it, but at the same time basic enough so that users interested in learning more about a particular subject, can use the resources and suggestions given to get further answers. The book uses color not only for illustrative purposes but to catalogue its subjects in ways that makes them easier to find when we need a quick reference. Everything here is explained: Apple's new iApps, the new finder, the new online resources (such as iDisk), how to customize each profile, etc. The second part of the book introduces us to the Unix language, which is at the core of the new Mac OS X system, and it is altogether a whole new animal. This is one of the areas where further research is required, but the book does instruct us on the basic commands (including what not to do in order not to mess your system up).<br />  Something I really liked about this guide is that it's not only restricted to Apple's new system software, but it also recommends third parties that are essential in every possible area for a Mac user, such as graphics, creation of documents and presentations, utilities, etc. So even in this area, one gets the benefit of expert advice on the type of software that will run better on Apple's new computers. An excellent tool to keep beside your new iMac or G4 at all times and refer to again and again.advice on the type of software that will run better on Apple's new computers. An excellent tool to keep beside your new iMac or G4 at all times and refer to again and again.	2003-05-24
US	53055592	R1M3PF4E9MWGTQ	0140177396	371714764	Of Mice and Men	Books	5	11	14	N	N	"To your own friend be true"	Inspired by Steinbeck's centennial celebrations last year, I picked up a copy of  \\"Of Mice and Men\\" because I had read it was a thriller of sorts. As a mystery fan and writer, I am always interested in sudden apocalyptic d&eacute;nouements. I read the book in a couple of hours and, let me tell you, I'm still thinking about it two days later.<br />The story of George Milton and Lennie Small - who was, in every sense of the word, a \\"brute\\" - develops fast up to its high climax, and its end hits you like a thunderstorm. They are a couple of illiterate men who travel together, going from ranch to ranch in the Salinas valley at the time of the Great Depression, and \\"buck barley\\" for a living. They have no home or family, but they have each other, and they have a dream, which is repeated as an omen throughout the story: to save enough money to buy their own ranch and \\"live on the fatta the land.\\" George, with a small physique, has assumed the role of caretaker of Lennie, who is mentally retarded but naturally (or unnaturally?) strong. This trait of his had cost them their last job, but no matter what, they continued to stick together, true to their dream and their promise of honest friendship. Two days later after they arrive at their new place of work, the picture is totally changed and - in order not to give away the ending - I'll say so is the dream.<br />This is an excellently crafted novella, where every single character, event and word has been assigned a key role; and only a writer as talented as Steinbeck could have achieved it. It no only takes full manageability of the writing craft, but also an implicit trust on behalf of your readers in order to accept such a moralizing tale. Personally I like Steinbeck's omniscience, and anyone who knows about the context of his lifetime would understand why he thought a writer should always offer something for the betterment of mankind.<br />\\"Of Mice and Men\\" offers a perspective into us. It is a rite of passage from dreams to reality and back, an understanding of the true nature of friendship and the shattering reality of its breakage, where the pieces can no longer be picked up because they are no longer important. A novel that will make you want to hug the people you consider your friends.lity and back, an understanding of the true nature of friendship and the shattering reality of its breakage, where the pieces can no longer be picked up because they are no longer important. A novel that will make you want to hug the people you consider your friends.	2003-01-13
US	53055592	R2VKZAASFLEO97	0375706399	151828413	The Book on the Bookshelf	Books	4	14	14	N	N	You'll never look at your library in the same way again	I came across Henry Petrosky's \\"The book on the bookshelf\\" when I was researching re-decorating options for my own library; and bought it, thinking I was buying just another work on general booklore and memorabilia. What an agreeable surprise when I discovered this is not such a book, but an exploration on the evolution of the bookshelf. For someone like me at that point in time, it was kismet.<br />Petroski takes us from the earliest historical evidence of the existence of bookshelves and libraries; exploring ancient lands, such as Egypt and the great lost library of Alexandria, the storing of scrolls in Ancient Rome, the chained manuscripts that monks copied and sweated over for months during the Middle Ages; to our modern computerized systems. Library design is studied and analyzed to the last detail using as examples the oldest, most celebrated libraries of our time, such as Oxford's Bodleian Library, Spain's El Escorial, the Vatican Library, and our very own Library of Congress. He even dares to imagine the \\"library of the future\\", fully digitalized, with computers at the base of each set of book stacks at the user's disposal for fast, easy researching of titles. He writes as a scientist and his ability to create a resolutely valid hypothesis out of what many would call an insignificant theme is remarkable. The book closes with an appendix on myriad methods on how to organize one's own private library bookshelves, an extended bibliography, and a full reference list of excellent engravings, blueprints and photos reproduced throughout.<br />As a booklover and collector, I found \\"The book on the bookshelf\\" interesting and with a fresh point of view on a usually languid, most talked about subject.	2002-12-21
US	53055592	R1KBJXM6PJCE6C	0451205561	588710465	The Chocolate Cat Caper (Chocoholic Mysteries, No. 1)	Books	3	11	11	N	N	A true - though average - chocoholic mystery	Just as the title of the new series portrays, this first installment of the Chocoholic Mysteries is a sweet treat. Amateur sleuth Lee McKinney is back to where she grew up, the Great Lakes region in Michigan, to help her aunt run the business side of the family chocolate shop (Tenhuis Chocolade). Although Lee's speech impairment makes her appear a bit overwhelming at times, readers will come to like her because of her truly human side.<br />All starts after Lee goes to the house of Catherine Ripley, Warner Pier's most notorious resident, to deliver a large order of chocolates for a party due that same night at the mansion. But as soon as she arrives, she has to deal with an obtrusive security guard, a pestering secretary and Ms. Ripley herself. When, after tasting one of Tenhuis's Amaretto truffles, she falls to her death, Lee and her aunt, Nettie Tenhuis, are in the spotlight for some vicious press, a burglar; in fact, the works.<br />I don't know if my ability to pinpoint whodunit early on in the story could have been because I'm very familiar with the mystery genre (in fact, I write them). But in any case, I would classify this as a light-hearted mystery which, as such, cannot be expected to provide deep character drama but only light entertainment. Overall, I liked the main character and I could identify with her, which is always a plus in a story of this type. I really liked the way Clementine Ripley's cat gets involved in the action, with quirks typical of the doted on feline. For chocolate lovers, there's chocolate trivia, and even a questionnaire at the end of the book, that will make everyone's mouth water.	2002-07-28
US	53055592	R2EI7M50F7D7SS	1580083412	257566027	What Color is Your Parachute? A Practical Manual for Job-Hunters & Career-Changers	Books	4	22	24	N	N	You won't feel the impact if you land with this parachute	It had been about 3 years that I've wanted to read this book, when a last minute relocation (and subsequent job search) made it at last imperative. Completely re-written for this new edition, I started to read it with an open mind, and have received only positive impact out of it. However, because I knew what I wanted to do from the very beginning, it was not 100% helpful to me. If you are not sure of what you would like to do to earn your living, then this book is for you. It contains numerous tests (including Richard Bolles' famous Flower Exercise) to help you find your Mission in life.<br />But if, as it was in my own case, you just need some pointers on how to GET the job of your dreams - because you already know that's what you would most like to do, then you may not need to read the whole book. A few key chapters will suffice, such as the first five (interview tips, how employers look for job hunters, etc.)<br />I cannot recommend enough to supplement this reading with its companion website, located at [...] In it there is an article especially written about what it means to go job hunting in America post-September 11. I don't think many of us know what it really entails and Bolles puts it in perspective here. If you need career counseling, there is a listing at the end of the book that will help as a place to start.<br />The fifty thousand dollar question dealing with my finding a job after applying the techniques in this book has yet to be answered, but I would definitely recommend it as a means for the desperate job seeker who has or is about to lose all his hope. Bolles writes with a clarity and honesty that can only be helpful in the least, and give you total fulfillment at its most.	2002-07-21
US	53055592	R1YUR1S7LQ7BLG	0451185129	959604054	Martinis & Mayhem: A Murder, She Wrote Mystery	Books	5	10	10	N	N	I'm all for leaving my heart in San Francisco	After the first three novels in the \\"Murder, she wrote\\" series of mysteries, I sort of prepared myself for another cozy but nonetheless fruitless work by contributor Donald Bain. However, \\"Martinis & mayhem\\" surprised me very pleasantly.<br />Jessica is once again on the road, promoting her latest novel \\"Blood Relations\\", when a visit to the local women's prison puts her right in the spot to clear an innocently imprisoned young woman by the name of Kimberly Steffer. Jessica finds her diary in her purse at her return to the hotel and decides she will do what she does best: solve the mystery to clear the wrongfully accused and, at the same time, catch the correct culprit. In this adventure, Jessica in joined by her old friend from Scotland Yard, detective George Sutherland, who seems to be very interested in becoming more than a friend, although Jessica is not quite sure she wants to abandoned her widowhood just yet.<br />The book is well written, and its simple prose is not out of place as it was in the previous novels. Jessica appears smart and quick witted, and George Sutherland is no less than the most typically charming British gentleman. San Francisco is described in a way only a connoisseur could do it: its beautiful sights, the Golden Gate bridge (where Jessica almost falls to her death!), the typical trolleys and the romance this picturesque city has to offer (even though Jessica describes it from the point of view of the upper class traveller), will delight every reader's senses.<br />I will definitely reccommend this book for the \\"Red Eye\\" on your next trip to San Francisco, the better yet if you have never been there; and a delight for the repeated visitor as well.	2002-06-03
US	53055592	R2AAR7GY8J7Y7L	0553577158	398938077	Unbound (Booklover's Mysteries)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Mystery in the world of rare books	Of all the sleuths I've read in cozies, Alex Plumtree definitely has to be the one who has the cunniest appeal to get himself involved in the most dangerous publishing intrigues. \\"Unbound\\", is the second installment in the \\"Booklover's Series\\" of mysteries. Unlike the first one (\\"Unsolicited\\") I enjoyed it very much. Here is, at last, a true booklover's mystery; where we are not only introduced into the world of rare books, but we are also taught about restoration techniques, antique volumes, a conference at an antique book fair, and general booklore.<br />The plot starts rolling when Alex and his author Angela Mayfield are within days of publishing a breakthrough novel about a famous old author - now long deceased - by the name of Marcus Stonecypher. Apparently, \\"The Stonecypher Saga\\" will be based on the premise that Stonecypher used to include secret codes within his novels, which were indicative of a secret political agenda that threatened to destroy world governments. Well, well... Anonymous, deadly auspicious messages start arriving at Alex's and Angela's door until she is involved in a horrible accident that leaves her comatose. Alex, in the meantime, vows to find out who could have done this to her friend when he is now the victim of almost sure death.<br />To reveal more would be too much. Let's just say that this is a novel with numerous twits and turns, were many plots seem to be on development at the same time. The settings are extremely cozy and one wishes to have the possibility of sharing them with the protagonists every single time: the cocktails, the conference at the chateaux in France, the bicycle ride in the French countryside; all truly, very much inviting. Towards the end of the book there's an episode where the late Princess of Wales takes centerstage, accompanied by her two sons. Although they are not mentioned by their actual names, the reader will immediately notice the reference to Diana and her sons, the princes William and Harry, at the book event. I can only imagine the novel was published before her unfortunate death, and because of that I'd like to think of this as a small tribute on behalf of the author.<br />In the end, \\"all's well that ends well\\" and both Alex and his elder brother Max find true love. Hopefully we won't have to deal with Alex's feelings for Sarah anymore in further novels. That would be a relief, especially because one cannot bear to imagine Alex with all his contained sexual tension (!). That aside, \\"Unbound\\", is what it claims to be: an intrigue amongst the world's best rare book collectors and restorers, and one that is a pleasure to read.e book event. I can only imagine the novel was published before her unfortunate death, and because of that I'd like to think of this as a small tribute on behalf of the author. <br />In the end, \\"all's well that ends well\\" and both Alex and his elder brother Max find true love. Hopefully we won't have to deal with Alex's feelings for Sarah anymore in further novels. That would be a relief, especially because one cannot bear to imagine Alex with all his contained sexual tension (!). That aside, \\"Unbound\\", is what it claims to be: an intrigue amongst the world's best rare book collectors and restorers, and one that is a pleasure to read.	2002-05-20
US	53055592	R2BFPCPIDOVY2Z	0449911470	763579968	Power of Positive Thinking	Books	5	17	23	N	N	Believe... and you shall be free	When I started to read this book I almost wanted to quit immediately after it stated that it was based on the Christian principles of the Bible. Even though I have been brought up in the Roman Catholic faith, I thought &quot;Oh, no. I don't want religion jammed down my throat,&quot; ESPECIALLY not in a book. Well, may I suggest that I could have committed one of the worse mistakes of my whole life had I stopped reading then and there?<br />Dr. Norman Peale affirms the Christian principles once and again, but the reader has no need for desparing, for he does not sell religion in his book. Instead, he suggests a new approach to it, purely practical. Here we have a look at the most read book of all time in a way few people could have imagined. He suggests we all use the Bible as a tool for successful living. Interesting? You bet!<br />The use of religion in everyday life is unavoidable, but you've never heard of using it in way so that your life flows easier, happier, with less stress and much rewards. After all, this is the way we were intended to feel in our brief passage through this world, since we were made to the image of God. The wonderful suggestions don't stop there. Being a partner in a small business, the idea of &quot;taking God in&quot; as another partner in order to make it successful, seemed incredibly original to me; and yet, could you think of a more natural way to talk to God?<br />After reading Dr. Peale's book you'll probably start to wonder how you never thought of these possibilities even though they appear to be indeed so natural and will definitely make life so much easier for you. Although he does say the reasons we became (and that is &quot;became&quot;, not &quot;were born with&quot;) the way we are today, is something you'll have to turn elsewhere to discover; the techniques for a new outlook on life, one that will allow you to reap the fruits of success and both personal and professional achievement, are given and shown here: the power of prayer.<br />I decided to keep this book by my night table. I have it marked to passages of special prayer and so far, it's done wonders for me.So start right away, get your copy and periodically, as Dr. Peale says, read passages of Scripture. There's no reason why you shouldn't reap the benefits of the most wonderful vineyard of all.f prayer. <br />I decided to keep this book by my night table. I have it marked to passages of special prayer and so far, it's done wonders for me.So start right away, get your copy and periodically, as Dr. Peale says, read passages of Scripture. There's no reason why you shouldn't reap the benefits of the most wonderful vineyard of all.	2002-05-01
US	53055592	R26EPVG942D8CK	0671722859	43217624	Romeo and Juliet	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Innocent young love doomed due to unavoidable circumstances	At least that's what I feel should have been a worthy epitaph for these two ill-fated lovers. I read this classic work of fiction because I've never read anything by Shakespeare before. Being a romantic, I found it appealed to me as one unfathomable story of doomed love, and may I say the ending could not have been any other, even if it hadn't been a fictitious story. I agree with Ms. Paster, who in this edition gives a final, parallel account of the story in comparison to modern times; when she says that Romeo and Juliet's only way out to consumate their love was through death, because they had trespassed socially acceptable conventions of the era, and not just due to a family feud. This is true especially of Juliet, who, because she was a woman, had the least advantages and the most pressures to be married to someone previously chosen and approved by her father. She defies the world - literally - and runs to the arms of her Romeo to be married in secret. I cannot imagine the terrible strain and fear a woman would have gone through in the 1500's should she choose to follow her heart in such a way. I find Juliet, in this sense, a true pioneer of women's rights. She definitely risks it all, defying even her own father (the man who would \\"owned\\" her until she got married). The passage where he confronts her about her arranged marriage to Count Paris has to be one of the cruelest speeches in classic literature. She certainly would have to make use of a humongous supply of nerve to defy convention.<br />Romeo, on his behalf, is truly besotted with Juliet. He admires her beauty more than her courage and, like most men when in love, shows himself a pathetic spectacle. However, he loves her and cannot live without her. He only has eyes and, what's really important, heart for her. That is why, when he receives news of her death, he decides to go to her tomb and kill himself there. The ill-fated destiny plays these lovers a bad hand when Romeo does not get a  letter in time explaining his beloved's circumstances for her death.<br />I enjoyed Shakespeare's language the most during the first half of the book. When Romeo climbs to Juliet's window and stays with her for a few hours in the night (the only time the young lovers have for each other throughout the play). He expresses his love with unforgettable lines. He wishes he would be someone else, so that he could love her freely: \\"Call me but love, and I'll be new baptized.\\" (2.2.54)<br />This edition by the Folger Library has new comments and offers historical background on the life of William Shakespeare as well his times and his theatre. Dimensions of The Globe and explanations on how the plays were acted are shown in detail; together with illustrations of engravings of the period. It all helps to give a good understanding of the play. If, like me, you are new to Shakespeare, you will find the left pages in the book an invaluable resource since they are like a mini-dictionary clarifying words, idiomatic expressions of the era and even full verses. Above all, fear not; and dare to dive into this torrent of love.explaining his beloved's circumstances for her death.<br />I enjoyed Shakespeare's language the most during the first half of the book. When Romeo climbs to Juliet's window and stays with her for a few hours in the night (the only time the young lovers have for each other throughout the play). He expresses his love with unforgettable lines. He wishes he would be someone else, so that he could love her freely: \\"Call me but love, and I'll be new baptized.\\" (2.2.54)<br />This edition by the Folger Library has new comments and offers historical background on the life of William Shakespeare as well his times and his theatre. Dimensions of The Globe and explanations on how the plays were acted are shown in detail; together with illustrations of engravings of the period. It all helps to give a good understanding of the play. If, like me, you are new to Shakespeare, you will find the left pages in the book an invaluable resource since they are like a mini-dictionary clarifying words, idiomatic expressions of the era and even full verses. Above all, fear not; and dare to dive into this torrent of love.	2002-04-18
US	53055592	R1WWUFQ1R1QLSD	9994839098	557833260	English Country House Murders	Books	3	3	5	N	N	An average collection	On thinking about relaxation with a good book after a copious dinner, I once picked up this anthology expecting to be thoroughly entertained for hours on end beside a log fire on winter nights; my cup of hot cocoa and some good mints close at hand. But for what it's worth, sometimes I ended up quite satisfied, others completely bored, and only once saying &quot;Wow! That is some story!&quot; This happened when I finished reading &quot;The Queen's Square&quot;, by Dorothy L. Sayers. In this story, taken from &quot;Lord Peter's stories&quot;, Sayers pushes our brains to the limit with countless metaphors allusive to the game of chess and a story settled in a masquerade ball, site plan and all.<br />I was also very pleasantly surprised by Baroness Orczy's story, &quot;The Fordwych Castle mystery&quot;, where we encounter one of the first women police constables. Incredibly smart too. Another non-British writer I've always wanted to explore but never really got to is the New Zealander Ngaio Marsh. Her Inspector Alleyn shows all the charm and informality of the typical Australian and he is a pleasure to read. The heavy Gothic style reminiscent of Edgar Allan Poe is ever present in stories such as &quot;The doom of the Darnaways&quot;, where Father Brown shows his wits in elucidating an old family curse. More Gothic in Ethel Lina White's &quot;An unlocked window&quot;, where the murderer is present from the very beginning.<br />A small detail seems to have escaped the editor, Mr. Godfrey, when suggesting a title for this anthology, which should have been called &quot;English Country House Mysteries&quot;, instead of murders, since at least two stories contain no murders at all. One of this is the long and tedious &quot;A marriage tragedy&quot;, by Wilkie Collins. The longest story in the book, and one this anthology could have done without. I found this volume a good source to get to know the good authors of the mystery genre, but nevertheless, sometimes it even fails to present a good product of their talent as well. Take for instance, the all too insignificant story by Margery Allingham, &quot;The same to us.&quot; I would think no one would probably ever bother to read her in the future if they judged her by this contribution here, and she is so good!<br />As an introduction, Mr. Godfrey spells out certain &quot;rules&quot; of what he considers an English country house mystery. Not to all of them I subscribe, and they are too long for enumarating here; and even this introduction fails to make the book interesting. In any way, for the &quot;real thing&quot; get a good novel of the big names in mystery for those chilly nights.o present a good product of their talent as well. Take for instance, the all too insignificant story by Margery Allingham, &quot;The same to us.&quot; I would think no one would probably ever bother to read her in the future if they judged her by this contribution here, and she is so good! <br />As an introduction, Mr. Godfrey spells out certain &quot;rules&quot; of what he considers an English country house mystery. Not to all of them I subscribe, and they are too long for enumarating here; and even this introduction fails to make the book interesting. In any way, for the &quot;real thing&quot; get a good novel of the big names in mystery for those chilly nights.	2002-04-15
US	53055592	R39Y74RX1CA59H	0425164357	562860092	Death at Bishop's Keep (Robin Paige Victorian Mysteries, No. 1)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Get your parasol and take a stroll through the Keep	Wonder what the feeling was like in the traditional Victorian Society when Henry Ford introduced the automobile? Or perhaps you'd rather spend your afternoon having a talk with Oscar Wilde and Arthur Conan Doyle - how did he ever dare to kill Sherlock Holmes? We can always attend a seance afterwards. These, and more delightful adventures are part of the new series of Victorian Mysteries produced by husband-wife writing team Susan Wittig and Bill Albert, under their pseudonym Robin Paige.<br />In \\"Death at Bishop's Keep\\", we are introduced to the two main sleuths, Kate Ardleigh and Sir Charles Sheridan; a couple with lots of potential for deathly amusement. Kate is an American Victorian, but very unconventional, woman. She writes stories (called penny-dreadfuls) for a living and has no need of a husband. Sir Charles is also kind of unconventional. With his camera and his rugged appereance, who could've thought he holds a knighthood. The pair meet when Kate is summoned by a long lost aunt to come to England. Always in search for adventure, she accepts gladly. But when she arrives, she not only finds two aunts instead of one, but also sees obvious tension in the homey air of the country house. The servants are thoroughly resentful and her aunts... well, that is another story. But Kate quickly finds friends next door, among them the intriguing Sir Charles, who will help make her stay in England a long and memorable one.<br />I couldn't honestly find any faults with this book. The plot is intriguing but never long-winded, the ending wrapping up beautifully. The description of Victorian society and customs couldn't be better; and the characters, well... halfway through the novel one feels they are part of one's family. One gets attached to them, and cannot wait for the next adventure. Even the cover illustration, by Teresa Tasolino, shows superb taste and serves as introduction to the British country house that will surely be the setting of many wonderful adventures; with a take from the lake, black swan and all.<br />I just finished the book and I'm already longing for the sequel. It's strange that this happens with me. Usually, I like to alternate between series, but with the Victorian Mysteries, it is not the case. I fervently hope that Mr. and Mrs. Albert continue the series for many years to come.th a take from the lake, black swan and all. <br />I just finished the book and I'm already longing for the sequel. It's strange that this happens with me. Usually, I like to alternate between series, but with the Victorian Mysteries, it is not the case. I fervently hope that Mr. and Mrs. Albert continue the series for many years to come.	2002-04-01
US	53055592	RK353LGUDC8HZ	0553582097	588527292	Unsolicited: A Booklover's Mystery (Booklover's Mysteries)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Not really what it claimed to be	I bought this book because it claimed to deal with the world of books, publishing and all things British, but after having read \\"Unsolicited\\", I have my doubts about continuing with the rest of the series. In this, the first installment of the \\"Booklover's Mysteries\\", a young man by the name of Alex Plumtree - who comes from a British upper-middle-class family, has inherited the family book publishing business after his parents' demise. Plumtree Press has always sustained itself with the publication of anthologies; but Alex always wanted to immerse the firm into the more lucrative fiction market. Just when he was figuring out how to accomplish this, an unsolicited manuscript lands on his doorstep, under the cocky title of \\"Deliver us from Evil\\". Nothing mysterious here, with the exception that its author has decided to keep an extremely low profile, and presents himself just under the name of Arthur. No last name, no return address, no phone listed; in fact, un-traceable. Nevertheless, Alex does not get deterred by this and decides to publish the book; a fictionalized story about a group of British children who were taken to exile during World War II and were ultimately sold to their new parents for profit.<br />After the great success of the first novel, a sequel arrives. More cocky titles here: this one is called \\"Those who tresspass against us\\". But when the final chapters miss the submission deadline, Alex gets worried. The mysterious Arthur has never been late before, and Plumtree Press needs the new novel to get back on its financial feet. Just at this time Alex realizes, through a series of mishaps - that in numerous cases come close to ending his own life, that the novel is a very much a true story; a sort of expos&eacute;. He starts receiving offers of all types; some very friendly and profitable, others not so. At this point I became disappointed at the novel, which from then on seemed more a story &aacute; la Disk Francis than the typical cozy British mystery it claimed to be. Alex's love for his bank loan official, an old friend by the name of Sarah Townsend, is a bit too much, not helping the story in the way it should.<br />\\"Unsolicited\\" might also have been called 'A Yachting Mystery', since at a point we are completely torn apart from books and the British cozy lifestyle to be thrown into what looks like \\"The Perfect Storm\\", of sorts. The ending is not satisfactory either, since many questions are left un-resolved, including the scene of an escape with a totally un-realistic and impossible outcome under the circumstances. It would have helped if the author had concentrated more into the theme of the book and less into the life of the main characters per se. People who choose to read a series of this kind will obviously want to dig more into the world of books. The fact of leaving things in the dark at the end of the story makes me think of Ms. Kaewert as a commercial author, interested in royalties more than in the pleasure of writing. I deeply dislike such authors, who are eager to become the \\"publishing machine\\" in such an obvious way. I will give the sequel, \\"Unbound\\", a chance though. I do hope to meet with more books and less yachts.imed to be. Alex's love for his bank loan official, an old friend by the name of Sarah Townsend, is a bit too much, not helping the story in the way it should. <br />\\"Unsolicited\\" might also have been called 'A Yachting Mystery', since at a point we are completely torn apart from books and the British cozy lifestyle to be thrown into what looks like \\"The Perfect Storm\\", of sorts. The ending is not satisfactory either, since many questions are left un-resolved, including the scene of an escape with a totally un-realistic and impossible outcome under the circumstances. It would have helped if the author had concentrated more into the theme of the book and less into the life of the main characters per se. People who choose to read a series of this kind will obviously want to dig more into the world of books. The fact of leaving things in the dark at the end of the story makes me think of Ms. Kaewert as a commercial author, interested in royalties more than in the pleasure of writing. I deeply dislike such authors, who are eager to become the \\"publishing machine\\" in such an obvious way. I will give the sequel, \\"Unbound\\", a chance though. I do hope to meet with more books and less yachts.	2002-04-01
US	53055592	R1PKS87057EXOA	0767908260	61094722	The Island of Lost Maps: A True Story of Cartographic Crime	Books	3	7	7	N	N	The maps that got lost forever	Antique maps, as antique - or rare - books, hold a fascination all its own. Too often serious collectors and dealers are drawn to them in inexplicable ways that only the sense of possession can appease. This is the premise - or at least one of them - on which Miles Harvey bases his book.<br />Mr. Harvey was assigned back in 1995 to cover the case of one of the biggest map thieves of all time, an unassuming fellow by the name of Gilbert Bland. This character, was later discovered, had stolen around 250 maps from libraries across the USA and Canada in order to sell them 'for a buck'.<br />I found the stories about great collectors and dealers, such as the famous Graham Arader III, fascinating. We are invited to an auction in Sotheby's and can follow it along just as Mr. Arader bids on items of his interest for a total of $800,000. We are also introduced to the famous discoverers, such as Ferdinand Magellan and Christopher Columbus, through a very entertaining and detailed history of cartography in chapter 7. What IS NOT interesting in the least, is the story of Gilbert Bland himself. He is too much of a simplistic character that might have been good for an article in a magazine; but is definitely not worth a whole book. I find perhaps, Bland's adventure (to call it something) might have provided a good starter for a fictionalized piece. However, the way it is used here, the way the author tries to psychoanalize him (even himself), is absolutely boring and pointless.<br />This is, nevertheless, an interesting book for starting collectors of rare books, antique maps and manuscripts. The way rare books rooms are run and what we can expect to find in them, the way dealers conduct their business; and the staggering sums of money some of these pieces are capable of reaching in today's markets will let most people with their mouths wide open.	2002-03-18
US	53055592	R3T4BNIY1731JT	0553258478	734532649	Exodus	Books	4	24	32	N	N	Poignant story of the birth of a nation	Not a long time ago I heard someone say that we all carry a bit of the Jews inside of us. Maybe it is because of the history the Bible gives us, maybe because we've all experienced rejection and affection in some extreme way or another at some point in our lives. Exodus is the story of the birth of Israel. It is the story of the most ancient of creeds on this earth. It is a story of persecussion, hatred, fear, victory and murder. It is, in fact, the story of the Jewish people, told both from the viewpoint of fact and fiction. The characters in the novel are fictitious, the events are not. It is the story of an Israeli leader by the name of Ari Ben Cannan, and an American nurse - Kitty Fremont - who refuses to be drawn to the &quot;Promised Land&quot; but in the end cannot escape from it because... well, to tell more would be to almost give away part of the novel.<br />To read this book is not only interesting - it is even vital, I should say. It helps us understand a bit more about the philosophies and the rivalries that have plagued the Middle East since the begginings of time. For us westeners (especially the non-jews like me), this way of thinking, of fighting, is unheard of. Holy Wars? Live and die for the future generations without regard for one's own life? Western capitalism will be shocked at the idea. We all know the story of the Jewish people is one of sorrow, but I doubt we even dare to imagine just how deep this sorrow is. Uris' work leads us through as invisible onlookers to a world where there is no tomorrow but only today. His mix of fact and fiction is what really makes this novel gripping. Sometimes it could get a bit confusing when he resorts to just re-telling of historical events; since Uris is above all else a journalist and this reflects in his writing. For people like myself, who were still not around in the fifties, at times like these the story gets too deep, with names and events popping-up everywhere. But as soon as the focus gets changed to the characters again, you will want to get to the end of the book as soon as your eyes allow. &quot;Exodus&quot; is a novel to remember and re-read a few years down the road; and never forget it.to the characters again, you will want to get to the end of the book as soon as your eyes allow. &quot;Exodus&quot; is a novel to remember and re-read a few years down the road; and never forget it.	2002-01-05
US	53055592	R3EFGLDTA2E4K9	0911662014	910652299	Fourteen Lessons in Yogi Philosophy and Oriental Occultism	Books	4	23	23	N	N	An introduction to understanding the wonder of life	For readers who want to start exploring the philosophies of the hindu yogis, this is the perfect book. More than a book, it is a treatise that both enlightens and inspires. It starts with an explanation of the seven principles of what man is made of, paying special attention to what we don't see ( a.k.a. the auras). Ramacharaka not only affirms but confirms the power of human thought, and how a life can be trascended by it. We are what we think, our thoughts feed our actions. This particular philisophy starts with the principle that man is a spirit within a body, a mass of energy, and not the other way around; a common idea of the western philosophies. The book goes on to explain various techniques used in ocultism, good ones as well as bad ones.<br />The lesson I found the most fascinating was the one about life after death, that is death as we know it; because after reading about the different stages our spirit goes through once it leaves our body, you will never see - or at least think - of death in the same way. The only thing I can say on my behalf is that I expect to be fully awake to experience at least half of what is being described here.<br />If the reader is searching for answers to profound questions regarding the yogi philosphy he will probably have to go elsewhere. This is a book for begginners. It was written to wet one's appetite, to spark the willingfull search of knowledge, and many readers will be taken aback by the simplicity of it all. Ramacharaka shows us that life, when lived according to nature, is quite a simple business, and therein lies the wonder of it. It is both quick and majestic and, true to his philosphy, guides us to see death as we know it as a form of preparation to be better each time we choose to come back and experince new lives.<br />Even if we don't agree with the idea of re-encarnation, it will pay to have a look at it as an outsider, and consider the principles (such as the one for cause and effect), that we can see take place in our world once and again.<br />Read it, and welcome the peace and the wonder in your own life.ace in our world once and again.<br />Read it, and welcome the peace and the wonder in your own life.	2001-12-13
US	53055592	R1GBBIX1DB6KYH	0345384466	470794658	The Witching Hour (Lives of Mayfair Witches)	Books	3	21	28	N	N	Good writing but nothing else	I never believed I'd become a fan of Anne Rice when it was suggested to me I read this novel. Over 1,000 pages later I'm definitely not a fan, but as a writer myself I can appreciate what others find so seductive in this author. &quot;The witching hour&quot; is the story of a family run mostly by its women, who all happen to have sold themselves to the Devil. This devil is Lasher who, through the centuries, periodically takes possession of the soul of the women who inherit this legacy of power.<br />Anne Rice is not a master storyteller, but she is a superb descriptor of her characters's moods. She takes full advantage of this and uses it to the extreme, right up to the point where the reader becomes so immerse in the profile of a character that there is a union of identities one cannot escape from. The quality of the writing is entrancing in itself, with lush descriptions of the house at First Street in New Orleans and the harbor in San Francisco. I have to admit when I was reading certain passages I went online and found these places: the Garden District, the Pontchartrain Hotel, the Church of St. Alphonsus, etc. I promised myself a future trip to these cities just to enjoy the sights.<br />The genealogy of the Mayfair witches must be commended. Very few writers can come up with such an extensive history of a family that doesn't exist, and offers at the same time so much to talk about. It is here also where we encounter one of the first problems of the novel, which is that of a weak plotline. The story of the witches could be applied to anything, and it is becomes too fictitious and overbearing at times. I empathize with one of the reviewers on this page who finds himself dissapointed when the character of Rowan Mayfair &quot;folds&quot; and leaves the novel not just with an open ending but with no ending at all. I also agree with the reviewer who says that after over 1,000 pages of material, the reader deserves a better ending, and should not find himself so crudely set up for a sequel. This makes me think of Ms. Rice as a purely commercial author who cares more about her royalties than about delievering material that could actually fulfill her readers.<br />I found another drawback in the last scene of the book, at the climax of the story takes place on Christmas Eve. For my taste, there is to much blood, and it becomes gross. I won't say anymore. I think if a reader likes horror there are better stories - and better writers, such as Edgar Allan Poe for instance - that can entertain without making things seem so thick and barbaric. Personally, I prefer the subtle touch; one that makes the imagination work to unprecedented levels.<br />The story of the Mayfair witches continues in the sequel called &quot;Lasher&quot;. I suppose at some point in time I will pick-up a copy and read it. Right now I'm full of it - literally. I cannot imagine what those Vampire Chronicles must be like.ely set up for a sequel. This makes me think of Ms. Rice as a purely commercial author who cares more about her royalties than about delievering material that could actually fulfill her readers.<br />I found another drawback in the last scene of the book, at the climax of the story takes place on Christmas Eve. For my taste, there is to much blood, and it becomes gross. I won't say anymore. I think if a reader likes horror there are better stories - and better writers, such as Edgar Allan Poe for instance - that can entertain without making things seem so thick and barbaric. Personally, I prefer the subtle touch; one that makes the imagination work to unprecedented levels.<br />The story of the Mayfair witches continues in the sequel called &quot;Lasher&quot;. I suppose at some point in time I will pick-up a copy and read it. Right now I'm full of it - literally. I cannot imagine what those Vampire Chronicles must be like.	2001-11-17
US	53055592	R2RIGBS3JRYS49	0399148019	723229047	The Absence of Nectar	Books	3	5	8	N	N	&quot;Deliverance&quot; applied to modern day mystery	In this story of suspense and mystery, Kathy Hepinstall takes us back to 1960's Texas in an undetermined small town. Meg Fenstar is a weak mother of two who lets her children go through hell in order not to upset her new husband, diabolical Simon Jester. The abuses toward eleven year old Alice and her brother Boone become so frequent and dangerous, that one night Meg whispers to her children while tucking them in: - &quot;Run!&quot;; which they end up doing almost immediately, escaping to a local island where they start living like savages. It is then when they become acquainted with Persely Snow, a local nut-girl who became famous for poisoning their parents and who, inexplicably, keeps getting loose from the sanitarium she's been put into.<br />Unfortunately, this is not the type of story which fits into my favorites. It is incredibly distressing to have to deal with both physical and mental child abuse from such a direct point. The reader feels helpless before the suffering of these children, so much so that it makes the story stop being entertaining and it becomes like a piece one might watch on Fox News. It certainly feels like watching &quot;Deliverance&quot; all over again, although the setting did not appeal to me as much. Even if it is meant to be depressing, at some point it becomes overwhelming: the very simple house with the evil stepfather, the passive mother, the bees dying, etc. There is too much static repetition here.<br />On a positive note, I found the construction of the plot well thought out and quite intricate, although somehow it doesn't really help to carry the story up to the end; and end which is, in itself, very obvious. A further point that I wasn't able to find myself fully immersed into was the narration of Alice and her being an eleven year old. I don't really think Alice sounds like a child of eleven but as a woman of twenty one. Her brother I found more realistic.<br />By far the best character of all is that of Persely Snow. She is very charismatic, and there is an aura of mystery that surrounds her. She is both martyr and hero, someone misunderstood by society who desperately fights to overcome a dark past. I find that this might have been a much better character to lead the novel and gave it a whole new perspective.<br />I must say I felt an enormous relief when I finished this book. It left a sour taste in my mouth, like something I really don't want to go through again. I found myself asking why everything took so long, why Persely wasn't the main character after all, and why everything seemed, in general terms, so ambiguous.is very charismatic, and there is an aura of mystery that surrounds her. She is both martyr and hero, someone misunderstood by society who desperately fights to overcome a dark past. I find that this might have been a much better character to lead the novel and gave it a whole new perspective. <br />I must say I felt an enormous relief when I finished this book. It left a sour taste in my mouth, like something I really don't want to go through again. I found myself asking why everything took so long, why Persely wasn't the main character after all, and why everything seemed, in general terms, so ambiguous.	2001-09-12
US	53055592	R2S0M837G1KXY7	1563055597	770770921	The College Woman's Handbook (Educating Ourselves)	Books	4	28	29	N	Y	College women look nowhere else!	As someone who is considering the college experience for the first time in this country, I have to admit that investing in this book was one of the best decisions I've recently made. Written by two Barnard College graduates, it is the only and most excellent reference book out there for young women who are considering college right after high school. This should not, by any means, serve as an indication of its uselessness for older women. Being myself at my early thirtys I found, to my surprise, an innumerable amount of handy information that I first thought I wouldn't, the problem being that I was letting myself be convinced of the book's usefulness judging by the table of contents. Titles such as &quot;Managing your personal finances&quot;, &quot;Staying healthy: prevention and remedies&quot;, &quot;Contraception and safer sex&quot; and &quot;Community and Identity: finding your place&quot; can have misdirecting interpretation for the women who've &quot;been there, done that&quot;. All these issues - and others directly implicated with college are, however, discussed from the collegiate point of view. Make that the collegiate woman's point of view. And here the book sets a standard all its own, starting with the basic aspects; such as how to apply both for admission to your favorite college and for financial aid, how to register for classes and deal with professors, etc. It even gives suggestions on how to study more productively for the time management challenged. There are also important chapters on mental and physical health (including eating disorders and the use of both legal and illegal drugs, both so common among today's students), how to develop a sense of community, how to forge new relationships and keep established ones and, one of my personal favorites, sexual education and sexually transmitted diseases. Even at my age and having been married for over 4 years, until I read the latter, I couldn't believe how much ignorance there still is in fact about sex and all its implications when it is practiced irresponsibly. On another line, who can resist but to read the chapter on &quot;Housing how-to's&quot; with a complete check list for an apartment being considered for rent. Try it and watch your prospective landlord awe in astonishment. When applying for a job, go over &quot;Working women: jobs, internships and careers&quot;. The excellent suggestions for r&eacute;sum&eacute; writing and the pre-interview checklist will make you feel more comfortable than ever in order to be relaxed and 'get that job'. At the end of each chapter there are ideas for activism and long lists of resources covering from quality and affordable healthcare to places to look for jobs or even obtain public information directly from the government on grants, scholarships and so on.<br />Because this guide was published six years ago, some of the resources are indeed a bit outdated; which calls for a very loud claim to the publishers asking them: when will we have an updated version? A further addition for future editions should also include a more thorough explanation geared toward foreign students of the English College System, which is very different from the one used, for instance, in Latin America.<br />I found the most important message throughout is the way the book empowers women. There are many things that we never even thought of questioning just because no one ever dared to, places we don't dare to go or even look at for fear of being stereotyped. &quot;The College Woman's Handbook&quot; shows you how to open your mind to new ideas and it exudes assertiveness. Even if at times it might seem a bit towards the feminist side, it will definitely give any woman who reads it the courage and strength to fight for what she really wants to accomplish during her life. Needless to say, this is a book that you will keep coming back to for reference during the rest of your life.ex and all its implications when it is practiced irresponsibly. On another line, who can resist but to read the chapter on &quot;Housing how-to's&quot; with a complete check list for an apartment being considered for rent. Try it and watch your prospective landlord awe in astonishment. When applying for a job, go over &quot;Working women: jobs, internships and careers&quot;. The excellent suggestions for rsum writing and the pre-interview checklist will make you feel more comfortable than ever in order to be relaxed and 'get that job'. At the end of each chapter there are ideas for activism and long lists of resources covering from quality and affordable healthcare to places to look for jobs or even obtain public information directly from the government on grants, scholarships and so on. <br />Because this guide was published six years ago, some of the resources are indeed a bit outdated; which calls for a very loud claim to the publishers asking them: when will we have an updated version? A further addition for future editions should also include a more thorough explanation geared toward foreign students of the English College System, which is very different from the one used, for instance, in Latin America. <br />I found the most important message throughout is the way the book empowers women. There are many things that we never even thought of questioning just because no one ever dared to, places we don't dare to go or even look at for fear of being stereotyped. &quot;The College Woman's Handbook&quot; shows you how to open your mind to new ideas and it exudes assertiveness. Even if at times it might seem a bit towards the feminist side, it will definitely give any woman who reads it the courage and strength to fight for what she really wants to accomplish during her life. Needless to say, this is a book that you will keep coming back to for reference during the rest of your life.	2001-08-02
US	53055592	RAGTHHQT9W4SJ	0312976836	445787741	A Healthy Place to Die (Gourmet Detective Mysteries)	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Another unsavory mystery by Mr. King	Reading this book is like reading a transcript from a cooking conference. It might just as well be, since this time our flat Gourmet Detective (a.k.a. The Unnamed One) takes the place of an absent friend at a Swiss spa to teach culinary secrets in a conference that lasts a week (too long). This novel develops really slow, and it only picks up the pace of a mystery in the last four chapters. Unluckily for us readers, the book comprises thirty two of them.<br />I found this novel in particular the one which has the most flat, underdeveloped characters of this whole series. Nothing means anything. Sure, if you read it as a cookbook or as a compilation of suggestions from a very good chef, it is an interesting piece of advice; even witty. However, this book claims to be a mystery story; and a good mystery story must have an identifiable plot, which has to be twisted and interesting at the same time. Well, I cannot really identify a good plot here.<br />I can certainly tell that Mr. King has travelled extensively throughout Europe and certainly knows a lot of the idiosyncrases of the different nationalities. He is also a very good expert in his field, which is that of cooking methods, ingredients, rare foods and all the other qualities that make an excellent chef. He is not, however, a good writer. Unfortunately this last part is what it takes to produce a good fiction story, be it a mystery or any other genre.	2001-07-04
US	53055592	R224RW7H5KLWFW	0060197978	535309358	Celine Dion : My Story, My Dream	Books	3	6	7	N	N	A great story of self-determination, though sometimes naive	I must admit I am biased because I am a really great fan of Celine Dion. Not only do I like her music, but the way she's achieved everything in her life. Here is the story of a person who was definitely ready to do anything - and everything - she had to in order to achieve what she wanted to become: one of the world's most famous singers. There are a lot of anecdotes about both her personal and professional struggles that the public didn't know about; such as why she became so thin, the times she lost her voice, etc. Celine's story is one of personal sacrifice and constant focusing into her goal.<br />Her romance with Rene Angelil though, is kind of sordid and sometimes boring. I suppose once one becomes a superstar one loses some inhibition. As I was reading the book, at times I turned red. I would have never dared myself to reveal certain details with the openness she does here. In this Celine shows herself as inexperienced and very naive. It's incredible that a person who has gone through so much in life hasn't really gone through the catastrophes most of us have at her age. I'm sorry to say that she still has to suffer a lot to deliver an authentic autobiography that really leaves us something; for example: what will she do when she no longer has Rene in her life? Being myself Celine's age and having also been married to a man 25 years my senior, I can say for certain it is not healthy to be dependent on him as Celine is. She calls it &quot;love&quot;, but a lot of the readers will see is something more than that.<br />Nevertheless, the book is an interesting read from the inspirational point of view. This, I found, is Celine's greatest strength; and not her love for Rene, as she intends to portray. That should always be kept personal.	2001-06-29
US	53055592	R380CISE2V4MBI	0312966830	438168629	Dying On The Vine: A Culinary Mystery (Culinary Mysteries)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A delightful book about Provence and its people	Although Peter King is definitely not Peter Mayle when writing about Provence, I found this to be a very good mystery indeed, hard to put down. Thank God there is no female Sergeant helping our Gourmet Detective in his investigation. The chauvinistic remarks linger on however, but they are not so overwhelming as in the other two previous mysteries.<br />I loved the descriptions of life in Provence, as well as the food and the wines, which for me are the best in the world. It wets my appetite every time I read about this sumptuous food.<br />The ending is quite surprising and full of action. I was expecting to be just carried lightly through, but instead, is quite gripping and I definitely had to keep reading through the last chapters without stopping.<br />Visit Provence and its vineyards. You'll encounter lots of intrigue, excellent food and high class people.	2001-06-04
US	53055592	R8PV9DUB3YWUK	0312965001	795164677	Spiced To Death: A Culinary Mystery (Culinary Mysteries)	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Spiced to death will kill you indeed	Lack of originality keeps popping up on this second adventure of the Gourmet Detective. This story is too long and too similar to the previous one which, although not in my list of favourites, was definitely better than this one.<br />In a mystery story the presence of red herrings is a must, however, Mr. King scatters them all around without much purpose, and also in excess. For instance, what was the point of the food fair so extensively described, (even if this is a culinary mystery? And the woman from the &quot;Phoenicia Restaurant&quot;? I thought this would have been a much more insterested relationship to develop than the one between our protagonist and the female Sergeant assigned to protect his back. This last instance is also the same one of the first novel when the Gourmet Detective developed quite a chauvinistic appreciation to Sergeant Winnie. Mr. King seems to have run out of ideas when writing his second novel of what appears to be quite a boring series.<br />As for the food comments, again, they are excellent as suggestions and will make anyone's mouth water. Which reminds me to keep suggesting to Peter King that he really should try the non-fiction genre and start that cookbook right away!	2001-06-01
US	53055592	R26EIKVOF606RZ	0312962606	87638850	The Gourmet Detective (Culinary Mysteries)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	An excellent gourmet book, as for a mystery...	I must admit I have savored this book very much. The Gourmet Detective is definitely a &quot;gourmet&quot;; as for being a detective...well, even himself doesn't use the term. I find the story a bit flat, the characters are not fleshed out at all, and the cute Sergeant Winnie seems a bit chauvinist, like dragged from nowhere into the story just to satisfy our protagonist's necessity for a link between him and the Police, while at the same time fullfilling his manly ego. I want to say I'm not a feminist, but the book suggests it that way. It's too obvious.<br />Another cause for dissappointment is that we never know the real identity of the protagonist. We just know he is the Gourmet Detective. Minor detail, I know, but still exasparating.<br />The volume is, however, extremely informative, even creative, as a food manual. Peter King is definitely not an amateur in this area. But then again, he probably should have written a cookbook. All this vast information about food and the appropiate wine to go with it would make a marvellous gourmet-reference book; but for a mystery, more of a storyline is needed; without cliches, and definitely not sexist.	2001-05-29
US	53055592	RWC321VFH1FLV	0312971184	56175887	Rubicon: A Novel of Ancient Rome (Novels of Ancient Rome)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Rubicon is worth crossing	After a rather lame novel (&quot;A murder on the Appian way&quot;)comes this sequel that really picks-up the spirit of the series. No lengthy narratives either; unlike the rest of them, it jumps right in: Gordianus finds a corpse in his own garden, and no one seems to know who might have possibly committed the crime. Even the watchful Minerva seems oblivious.<br />Gordianus is thus drawn into a saga of lies, deception, blackmail and brutal war. The story centers itself on Caesar's famous crossing of the Rubicon river, at the north of Italy, an event that precipitated the civil war that would, eventually, make him Caesar of the vast Roman Empire.<br />Once more, Gordianus's involvement is mainly personal: Pompey has given him an order to find the murderer of Numerious - a distant relative and the character found strangled in Gordianus's garden. Until this is accomplished, he'll take Diana's husband, Davus, as a guarantee with him to the front. Needless to say, Gordianus's daughter is devastated and so is everyone else.<br />Readers will be surprised at the actions of Gordianus - quite shocking, as in one of the previous novels; but that would be telling. Then again, what wouldn't anyone do for one's own family, especially if one's the head of it? Dare to cross this Rubicon.	2001-05-21
US	53055592	R3CW8K2L4RMPZD	0312957785	687649856	The Venus Throw: A Mystery of Ancient Rome (Novels of Ancient Rome)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Feminine mystery in Ancient Rome	Even though I haven't found this book to be remarkable from the point of view that would classify it as a mystery, I must say it does have a certain seduction, a certain allure, that makes it kind of irresistible to the reader, who will not want to put it down until its very end. This such end is quite a revelation as well as a paradox. Gordianus' perspective of his roman world is changed dramatically when he first discovers that his old tutor not only wasn't a man of virtue, he was a man of a great many vices, vices that included sexual abuse and depravity. The second shock comes with the identity of the murderer (not even Gordianus could have imagined this one).<br />All in all, what really made this book enthralling and very dear to me is the small tribute it pays to the women of Rome. For the first time in Saylor's writing, we are invited into the secret world of the roman woman, her desires, her insecurities and her atrocities as well. I must say that since reading this book I also crave silk from Cos for my own wardrobe.<br />In a world where women had almost no voice at all, where they were only considered their husband's or master's property; we still see the indelible mark women leave wherever they are present, in every step of their way. Even if this is the only message in the book, it is quite and imposing one.	2001-05-10
US	53055592	R3STCL4BWVC97K	080411269X	819963287	Catilina's Riddle	Books	3	11	11	N	N	Politics in Ancient Rome	This new novel by Steven Saylor should really not be fitted under the umbrella of &quot;mystery&quot;. It is, specifically, an extensively rich treatise about the politics of the late Roman Republic. There is no real mystery per se within the story, and the discourses of the diverse characters in it, though long, reel us into the vivid truth of roman politics. There's a lot of rhetoric, that science that roman politicians were so famous for, and lots of family life. Gordianus is getting on in years and, with the natural worries and sluggishness that come with being the head of a household, he takes a new dimension in the eyes of the reader. He is, after all, human and vulnerable.<br />Throughout the novel there is a lot of traveling - it bears mentioning that Gordianus is now a farmer and has retired, as such, to the Etruscan countryside. But just as he starts to settle in, quite a few headless bodies keep turning up in all sorts of places. Gordianus is also challenged when asked a favor from his old employer Cicero, now the Roman Consul. He has to play host to Lucius Sergius Catilina, a patrician of dubious reputation accused of conspiring against the Republic in order to establish himself as dictator absolute. But Gordianus cannot really quite convince himself that Catilina is such an impious character, being so charming, so full of life and, in some cases, of truth. But Catilina is also full of riddles. If only Gordianus could find out the truth...<br />Once again, the charming character of this ancient detective brings us into a world long gone but at the same time so full of the ideas that shaped our future as mankind. Delight yourself, once more, with a true, colorful story about Ancient Rome.	2001-05-05
US	53055592	REKCYMJCB2VVR	0804111278	800146388	Arms of Nemesis	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Powerful	This is a book about character mostly. Saylor has written one of the most impressive novels I have read lately. Period. Forget that it is a mystery; forget that it is an impressive, thoroughly researched, history treatise. Reader beware for this is a true masterpiece.<br />Even though there are passages where you'll feel you are suffering yourself, you won't want to put it down. The backdrop of this particular story is the revolt of Spartacus, which makes the issue of slavery the central point of the book. Although it is not moralizing, there are passages in the book that will bring you, the reader, close to tears. Gordianus is summoned to investigate the brutal murder of one of Crassus's administrators at one of his many villas at the countryside. He is taken there by ship; and here is when one of the many gory descriptions of ancient slavery takes place: with the rowers at the bottom of the &quot;Fury&quot; - the actual name of an imposing ship.<br />Throughout the story Gordianus takes almost a frantic approach to save the lives of many slaves, although, being a roman citizen himself, he doesn't understand really why. The story is so trascendental, one can understand why Gordianus, in the next book, his own family established with Bethesda, decides to retire to the country. He could hardly imagine what Saylor had in store for him in future adventures!	2001-04-26
US	53055592	R332SMMXR2IBL3	0898797241	425573668	Mystery Writer's Sourcebook: Where to Sell Your Manuscripts (MYSTERY WRITER'S MARKETPLACE AND SOURCEBOOK)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	You should have access to this book...	...even if it is outdated. &quot;Mystery Writer's Sourcebook&quot; will appeal particularly to new and aspiring mystery writers. It is a pity though, that Writer's Digest Books hasn't published a new edition of this book since 1996. I agree that this market changes rapidly, but still, there is no other guide geared specifically towards the mystery genre. In it you will find agent profiles, listings for the major publishing houses as well as numerous mystery magazines, ideas for resources (online and off), and an explanation of the most famous conventions and awards for the mystery genre. Some of the information may be outdated, but personally I have found it extremely useful as a reference that at least tells me where to go look for material I might be needing for a career in the such a competitive genre. There are also interviews to the major editors and writers, and even a few pieces on which the editors comment why a particular story was chosen. What else does a book like this one need to include in order to become indispensable? Like I said before, ignore the previous review and procure yourself a copy if you write mysteries and aspire to one day be published.<br />And to the publishers at Writer's Digest Books: please, publish a new, revised edition for this new century!	2001-04-22
US	53055592	R2RWXFLHQ6Q7JA	0312964528	960949669	The House of the Vestals: The Investigations of Gordianus the Finder (Novels of Ancient Rome)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Delight yourself while accompanying Gordianus	Fans of Gordianus, the Finder will be happy to get a hold of this book right away. It includes nine short stories in chronological order to be read after &quot;Roman Blood&quot; (the first novel in the series). Saylor's writing is so rich, that not only will appeal to mystery and history lovers, but also to lovers of ancient tragedies. &quot;Death wears a mask&quot; shows Gordianus in a theatre where, all of a sudden, murder strikes; but we cannot but marvel at the piece of lyrical dialogue briefly offered to us here. Unusual roman customs delight us in both &quot;King Bee and Honey&quot;, a story of a passionate love affair that ends up in tragedy; and &quot;The Lemures&quot;, where the mysteries of the Occult intertwine in the daily roman way of life. My favorite story in particular is the one that closes the book (and also titles it) &quot;The House of the Vestals&quot;. The interesting part in this story is not only the plot in itself, but the way it shows a vivid picture of the temple consecrated to the Roman Goddess Vesta; with its gardens and fountains, and the lifestyle of the women who from a very early age were chosen to be offered to her as guardians of the eternal fire.<br />Once more, reading Saylor teaches us about Rome and its character; while in the meantime, it teaches us about ourselves.	2001-04-17
US	53055592	R2RR67GGZLUEZ9	0312972962	185709915	Roman Blood: A Novel of Ancient Rome (Novels of Ancient Rome)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Mystery and great literature: a winning combination	At last a novel that combines the suspense and intrigue of mysteries and the wonderful taste great literature leaves in everyone's mouth. This is a promising series, where life in Ancient Rome is reborn. While we accompany Gordianus around the city and its surroundings, the feeling of &quot;being there&quot; is ever present.<br />The descriptions of the city of Rome, its corruption, its brutality, make us think about an indelible period of history that shaped the world we live in today. I read somewhere that the romans represent a period of history when men made an attempt to rule themselves but ultimately failed. Well, they might have; but Saylor and his novel are all time winners.<br />It is true that the title of the novel is a very accurate representation of what goes on into it. There's lots of blood everywhere, and descriptions of death are sometimes gorry. Saylor writes with all his senses. He does what every great writer does: he shows us.<br />I am more than ever looking forward to further adventures of Gordianus the Finder in Ancient Rome. If it was only even a bit close to this, life in Antiquity must have been fascinating.	2001-01-08
US	53055592	R25ABN181IQG0L	042517669X	589553010	Bleeding Heart (Gardening Mystery)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Rachel is greener than ever!	In the third book of the &quot;Gardening mysteries&quot; series, Rachel O'Connor gets the biggest contract of her literary life yet. A rich widow offers her a contract to restore the gardens of her family home to their old glory before she donates the property to a nature conservancy group. Her sons greatly oppose it but, when the woman is found dead floating in the creek that runs through the gardens surrounding the estate, Rachel is more determined than ever to make the old widow's dream come true. She won't run short of quite a number of inconveniences, including having to face a serious problem related to her own mother's health, an unscrupulus cop and a deadly stalker.<br />I found this book to be the one in the series that will appeal most to gardening fans. The descriptions of lush gardens, greens and rare species of plants is quite detailed. One can actually imagine being right there, in front of an idyllic creek, contemplating exotic plants and... having the feeling of being watched all the time by some macabre mind!<br />This mystery deals with crimes both in the past and in the present, and there are all sorts of crimes, not only actual killings; but deception and mistrust as well. A necessary book in a series that promises to amuse us for quite some time.	2000-12-15
US	53055592	R3BJG62LLY4LLL	089879725X	152371993	Amateur Detectives: A Writer's Guide to How Private Citizens Solve Criminal Cases (Howdunit)	Books	2	15	22	N	N	A vague analysis on amateur detectives	Elaine Raco Chase and Anne Wingate base the premise of this book as helpful based on the \\"one-must-do-one's-own-reading\\" premise; of the mystery novels we like, in order to write one of our own with believable characters and an interesting plotline. Although I totally agree with this suggestion, I can say this is hardly news for any serious writer of any genre. It is so how we are presented with a very extensive list of suggested reading, where all types of amateur detectives display their wit and wisdom (Chapter 1). I have found it very helpful indeed as reference for a bibliography on mystery novels. Later on, the book explains different laws for citizen's arrest in each and every one of the States of the Union. This is unfortunate (and very long), since it will only help you if you are setting your novel in the United States of America, making the book a prejudist one. The authors argue that whenever they requested information from other governments, they were ignored. I don't quite really know what to make of them as researchers.<br />A chapter that can summarize the first intention of the book is the one called \\"Resume of an amateur detective\\" (Chapter 3). However, it is very superficial and it won't provide any more information about creating your own amateur sleuth than you may be able to find elsewhere or come up with from your own writer's imagination, AFTER you have done the required and fruitful reading. There is also a chapter with lots of internet resources but, unless they are very general (such as the Library of Congress or the White House), it becomes invariably outdated (this also applies for the chapter on laws of the United States which change, at least, every year). I think nowadays most writers would be capable of using a search engine and find whatever it is they are looking for on the internet and more.	2000-12-07
US	53055592	R1YFXYLG5F3THH	0425171965	117658506	Deadly Nightshade (Gardening Mystery)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Getting better	Mary Freeman's second novel in the &quot;Gardening mysteries&quot; series is certainly shaping-up her skills as a mystery writer. In &quot;Deadly nightshade&quot;, we encounter Rachel once more, together with most of the characters from the previous novel &quot;Devil's Trumpet&quot;; although it is now two years later and some changes have taken place in Blossom: Jeff (Rachel's beau) is now the Chief of Police, and Rachel has gotten the City landscaping contract. All hell breaks loose when a City Councilman is found dead just at the place where Rachel is currently demonstrating her marvelous landscaping skills. When her temperamental uncle is actually accused of the murder, Rachel takes a personal interest in the case.<br />In this book the previous mistake of &quot;guessing&quot; the murderer's identity beforehand is corrected; and there is no way to know whodunit right up until the end of the story.<br />Freeman's character-handling and dialogue techniques are ever present to delight everybody once more. For gourmet and culinary gurus, I reccommend a trip to &quot;The Bread Box&quot;, Blossom's magnificient bakery store, which makes my mouth water everytime I read about the delicacies it offers. Too bad this is fiction.	2000-11-27
US	53055592	R23TF3NUL7BBGI	0898796830	4731455	The Writer's Digest Sourcebook for Building Believable Characters	Books	5	15	18	N	N	A book no writer should be without	Ask anyone who is someone in the writing field and they'll tell you: one the most (if not &quot;the&quot;) most important aspects of fiction writing, is the way you, as a writer, present your characters. Well, if you are among the evergrowing community of writers, you simply can't do without this book. This is very much a Bible for character building and I can certainly guarantee that you'll come up with darn good profiles and a very organized outline to begin any story. The book is divided into three sections. The first one is a transcript of a discussion among six currently published authors and their advice on character building. The second part is my favorite in the book: a &quot;character questionnaire&quot;, that lets you build an extremely detailed profile for your main characters in a novel, so that you don't make any mistakes in the narrative. Seems very much as detailed as an FBI file must be, including everything from name, height, eye color; to political ideas, opinions on abortion, favorite dress-code and restaurant, etc. The third part is the thesaurus, geared specifically towards characterization: body attributes, foreign names, types of nose, etc.<br />Keep this volume beside your word processor. Use it often. It's a tool that could make all the difference, especially if you are a begginning writer.	2000-11-18
US	53055592	REX9LF1JE16GO	0898795028	584743433	Writing Mysteries: A Handbook by the Mystery Writers of America	Books	3	44	44	N	N	Good advice, but not very user-friendly	This is a kind of &quot;anthology&quot; reference book on writing modern mysteries for want-to-be authors. Everything from where to look for inspiration, building a good plot, mastering ambience and effective character and dialogue development is here. What is also here - and very much present - is, in fact, the influence of crime writers. For example, the first chapter discusses the general &quot;rules&quot; for writing a mystery. I find it too partial to the modern, American crime writers, depecting the use of violence, certain cities, etc.; as the optimal places to write mysteries about.<br />Other writers, like Tony Hillerman, who writes mysteries about the Navajo indians, writes a kind of pedantic chapter, very much geared towards people like him, who are established writers; but that the novice can find discouraging.<br />I find the most helpful, and best written chapter of all is one of the last ones, written by Ruth Gavin, a mystery editor; where she tells exactly what an editor is looking for in a mystery and what the readers are looking for as well. She definitely helps the first time writer to get published.<br />I find the traditional, cozy or not, British mystery the most enticing, entertaining and relaxing. If you are this kind of writer, this book is not going to appeal much to you. Although  I would still reccomend you browse it, I suggest &quot;You can write a mystery&quot;, by Gillian Roberts. On the other hand, if you are a Sue Grafton fan - who, by the way, is the editor of this book -, and you also like Tom Clancy and Robert Ludlum; you will find this volume very appealing.	2000-11-17
US	53055592	R132K3UFWZQC6	0451184912	68311327	Murder, She Wrote: Brandy and Bullets	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Too much brandy, not enough bullets	The third adventure of Jessica in the literary version of \\"Murder, she wrote\\", takes place in her hometown of Cabot Cove. All starts when a well-known local aristocrat decides to sell the famous Worrell Mansion, a public landmark, to a group of developers with the condition that it be turn into a posh artists' retreat. Jessica, as a writer, is one of the few supporters of such an idea from the start. Most of the townsfolk dismiss it, though, as a curse: \\"Artists do drugs,\\" says one, while other seems to think \\"they engage in orgies.\\" Although Jessica is quick to object that this isn't so for EVERY artist, she quickly admits that things at Worrell go all but smoothly. A sudden suicide (or was it?), another attempted one and the dissappearance of a long time, dear friend, have Cabot Cove's finest - that is Sheriff Metzger, Dr. Hazlitt and Jessica herself - on frank alert.<br />This seemed to me an overtly simplistic novel, just as the previous one, \\"Rum & Razors\\", did. Jessica's line of thinking is too plain, at the point that she wouldn't even be needed for the the development of the plot. Since she is the main character, this is something to think about in reference to the novel's greatness. I did find, however, the setting wonderfully cozy. Jessica's Victorian house and the city she calls home are extremely inviting in winter, when the snow and the extreme cold make it impossible to go out and one must hybernate with a cup of hot cocoa, a few good books and some writing. The reader is also invited to a lecture Jessica gives on mystery writing as a guest of honor at the Worrell Institute. Would be writers and then some will be pleased to hear her reccomendations on what to read as well as on how to better present a story that will, eventually, capture the eye of a publisher.<br />Nevertheless, I do find that the book could have benefitted from more intricate twists and turns in the plot. Coziness is always welcome in a story of this type, but being a mystery, it must also present some difficult puzzles for the sleuth to solve.ust also present some difficult puzzles for the sleuth to solve.	2000-11-10
US	53055592	R2BQZPTAQNK9QK	0425168212	874194217	Devil's Trumpet (Gardening Mysteries)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Some very good mystery back west	Usually modern mysteries are not as good as the traditional British classics. I was very gladly surprised when I read this book by Mary Freeman; the first of a new series subtitled &quot;A gardening mystery&quot;. The setting is unusual as well: a small town in western Oregon. The sleuth is Rachel O'Connor, who owns a landscaping business in the mytical town of Blossom. Although her business is jusy getting by, Rachel has a lucrative contract with Henry Bassinger, the present owner of the once very famous Columbia River Inn. The hotel is now very much into decay. However, one day Henry finally pays Rachel with a substantial check. That same day Henry is found dead at the bottom of the gorge, and the investigation begins. Although Rachel is an amateur sleuth; she is, nonetheless, incredibly persuasive. The story is abound with red herrings and, although I could guess who the murderer was quite a few chapters before the denouement, I did not feel dissapointed. Ms. Freeman's talent rests, I find, in the way the handles her storytelling; particularly, in the way she reproduces dialogue among her characters. Communication could never be more realistic. This is a rare gift among mystery writers, who sometimes focus too much into the descriptions of surroundings and neglect the aspect of communication among characters. Well, none like this here. I am very much willing to read the following mysteries in the series, which will appeal not only to mystery lovers but to gardening lovers as well; each book including, at the end, a useful gardening tip, while lots of them are sprinkled throughout the novel. It will be a nice turn of events if in one of them Rachel and her ex-high school sweetheart formalize their relationship. This, while solving another murder, of course.	2000-11-06
US	53055592	RKV6ISHMF10IF	0451183835	873008944	Murder, She Wrote: Rum and Razors	Books	3	5	5	N	N	"A Caribbean Mystery"	This is the second book in the series of the new \\"Murder, she wrote\\" mysteries. This time murder takes a holiday with Jessica to the Caribbean. She settles into an extremely luxurious and expensive resort, property of old friends from Cabot Cove and, both writers; he a travel writer who produces his own tour guides; and she, a gourmet cook who mixes her Maine coking with that of the islands. However, as soon as she arrives Jessica senses a lot of tension in her hosts (the owners of the inn). Problems succeed one another until, during a night stroll about the beach, Jessica herself finds a corpse. None other than her own host friend, brutally murdered. Jessica is not convinced of the guilt of an ex-employee who's been apprehended by the police, and she launches into a sleuthing sequence of events that very much annoys everybody, including the local police and her newly widowed host-friend.<br />I have found this book to be more truthful than the first one to the characters created in the original TV series. It certainly is an improvement from \\"Manhattans & murder\\", (which was the first one), but I would not exactly characterize it as unique. The first chapters are somewhat slow, then the murder happens, quite unexpectedly and it will catch you by surprise - good. More slowness right up to the point where the novel really picks-up (too many red herrings perhaps?); and then in the last five chapters is when I couldn't put it down. I have to say also, that although in the TV series Jessica's power of deduction to solve murders is extremely fast and brilliant; in this book she seems much slower. I could pinpoint whodunit even faster than her - something I don't usually achieve with the TV version. Readers new to mysteries will find this an enchanting, maybe even exciting, novel; but as far as I am concerned, it is a simple one.	2000-11-04
US	53055592	R1HV7UVQ1732KS	0451181425	704501668	Murder, She Wrote: Manhattans & Murder	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Reminisce with this nice alternative to the famous series	Jessica B. Fletcher, the famous character of the mystery writer from Cabot Cove played by Angela Lansbury, needs no introduction. After the TV series came to an end, fans have a new opportunity to further share into the lives of all those beloved characters through this saga of mystery novels.<br />The first installment, &quot;Manhattans &amp; murder&quot; was published for the Christmas season of 1994. Jessica is in New York for Christmas, doing what most famous authors do when in this city: promoting a new novel through numerous book signings, cocktail parties, TV and radio interviews, etc. The book jumps right in:  during her own Christmas shopping spree Jessica happens upon an old acquaintance from Cabot Cove. The man, who goes by the name of Waldo Morse, is working for charity as a Santa Claus on Fifth Avenue . Although Jessica hasn't seen him in years, she remembers that it was rumored back then he'd had to &quot;bolt&quot; from his own wife and children because of some involvement with drug dealers. When her friend recognizes her he tenses up, and asks her to come the next day to talk. But what she witnesses the next day is his murder - or is it? Things are never as they seem and Jessica, who has the curiosity of a cat, is determined to find out what's going on no matter what. For the purpose she disguises her personality, hires a private car, and goes to the most decrepit places in New York (spying from the security of a limousine, of course). Murder is always close to Jessica, who has to deal with an arrogant detective of not too good a fame.<br />Far from being a particularly interesting plot, it does give a good insight of the dark world of the Federal Witness Protection Program and the NYPD. The setting, however, is wonderfully cozy, making some of us (like me, aspiring writer), do a lot of wishful thinking about the wonderful social life, all the media attention and the stays at wonderful hotels that are a common lifestyle for V.I.P.'s the world over. Even though this is not an extremely good beginning, the book will very much appeal to fans of the show, who will recognize Jessica's friends Dr. Seth Hazlitt and Sheriff Morton Metzger, who are always on hand to accompany Jessica wherever she goes.<br />Mystery fans and future writers the world over will find in Jessica B. Fletcher a &quot;model&quot;, who is always groomed to perfection, intelligent, independent, shrewd and surrounded by the most important people.Even though this is not an extremely good beginning, the book will very much appeal to fans of the show, who will recognize Jessica's friends Dr. Seth Hazlitt and Sheriff Morton Metzger, who are always on hand to accompany Jessica wherever she goes. <br />Mystery fans and future writers the world over will find in Jessica B. Fletcher a &quot;model&quot;, who is always groomed to perfection, intelligent, independent, shrewd and surrounded by the most important people.	2000-11-02
US	53055592	R3SAAKX6JVQ1OK	0312029667	848737449	The Princess and the Duchess	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Sit down to some gossip	I imagine that back in 1989 (when this book was written) everyone wanted to know what the lives of the two most photographed women in the world was like. Well, if you are this sort of character, then you have a juicy piece of literature here to tell you everything from the places the then Princess of Wales and Duchess of York went to lunch, shop, have their hair done, etc.; to the houses they owned, the palaces they lived in, the sports they practiced and their general lifestyles. This is mostly a volume for young girls who dream about probably the same ideals these two young women once dreamed of - and sadly found there were too different from their own dreams. It is, however, a delightful book, full of details on what a &quot;Royal lifestyle&quot; is like; the clothes, the jewels, the traveling and the spotlight in general. The author is herself a frequent visitor in the &quot;Royal Circles&quot; so she can pinpoint her own opinions quite correctly sometimes. On the other hand, this book is not an interesting piece of literature from the critical point of view and, at the beginning of this new century, now that the masks have worn off and the two ladies are not even  part of the Royal Family anymore (one of them sadly and dramatically gone forever), this volume seems hopelessly outdated and, sometimes, silly.	2000-10-30
US	53055592	R24C6JQF78YI11	0809239884	718556572	The Private Lives of Britain's Royal Women: Their Passions and Power	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A closer look at the lives of some &quot;privileged&quot; women	The Royal women of Britain have been for centuries looked up and down upon, stereotyped, archi-analyzed and over-investigated. This is an interesting book that puts all of the above perspectives together and offers a thorough picture of their lives, both private and public. What drives a woman to become part of the most watched Royal family in the world? The answers may surprise you, since the undertaking of this &quot;profession&quot; (as the book calls it) has very determined goals for each woman joining in, but few of them understand them. This has probably been the cause of most of the problems experienced in the Royal Family, a family defined as a matriarchy. The author has some very interesting perspectives when analyzing the roles required of a Royal woman, as well as measuring how each one copes or deals with her responsibilities. In this way we are able to find a surprisingly cold and calculated Princess Michael of Kent, a maternal and uncomplicated Duchess of York, a demure Queen and a very practical - sometimes ruthless - Princess Royal. The book gives some very interesting revelations. Why was Princess Margaret never allowed to marry the love of her life? Why was Wallis Simpson never given the coveted HRH title? All these are very delicate issues for the stuffy British protocol and the considerations that must be taken into account will sound extremely rare for us commoners, even frivolous. However, the book offers interesting reading from a cultural point of view. More than ever, becoming Royal is a cultural issue, one that most people couldn't live up to. The privilegies may be great, but so are the consequences, may be even more so if you happen to be a woman. In today's world, where the role of women has paired so much with that of men, the idea of a Royal woman being expected to just dress-up, bear as many children as possible and be a deluxe decorative figure on her husband's side sounds extremely passe, to say the least. The paradox kicks in when one realizes that the women of this family are probably the most powerful in the world. This book will prove an interesting read for feminists the world over. It raises the eternal question of where a woman's place is. It seems today, at the turn of the twentieth century (this book was published in 1990) we are still not sure.one realizes that the women of this family are probably the most powerful in the world. This book will prove an interesting read for feminists the world over. It raises the eternal question of where a woman's place is. It seems today, at the turn of the twentieth century (this book was published in 1990) we are still not sure.	2000-10-27
US	53055592	R1Z43EU1I32NQD	0938399101	95193302	Benjamin Franklin's The Art of Virtue: His Formula for Successful Living	Books	4	40	44	N	N	The &quot;Right Way&quot;	A book like this should be mandatory reading for everyone. Particularly people who represent other people's interests for a living, such as World Leaders, Presidents, Kings, etc., would find it absolutely useful; a kind of constant tool, a compass that keeps them on the right track once and again. This is a book that shows not only Franklin's wit and wisdom, but also his vulnerability, that wonderful human quality, thus making it enchanting and insightful. Buy this book, learn and practice these principles, and enjoy the new breath of fresh air you'll experience in your life.	2000-10-17
US	53055592	R3QPTYDQ8JJ696	1886894868	512090741	ABBA- Fully Illustrated Book and Interview Disc	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Get the scoop on ABBA's music	This is a limited edition set of a picture CD and a miniature, thoroughly illustrated book on the most glamorous pop group of all time. Although this collector's item is mostly geared towards fans, it is very well produced  and documented. The interviews are not gossipy, but they explore instead  the ABBA phenomenon and its music. The CD covers 2 interviews; the first  one is with the whole group in October 1976, when they visited the United  States for a short promotional tour. The second interview took place around  10 years later with Bjorn Ulvaeus alone, when he was promoting the first  musical that he and Benny Andersson wrote post-ABBA (called  &quot;Chess&quot;). In both interviews ABBA's music past, present and  future is discussed, compared and explored. If you are a fan of the group  and its members as soloists as well, you just have to have this CD.	2000-07-31
US	53055592	R2DZOIUB68GM3U	0517703483	601883595	Just a Note to Say . . .: The Perfect Words for Every Occasion	Books	5	30	32	N	N	Notes galore!	Ideas for writing notes - and even letters, can be found in this wonderfully heart-warming book by Florence Isaacs. We are given suggestions on what to write for the Holidays, for cancer and AIDS patients and their  families, for condelences, births, etc. Every possible social situation is  covered, including all types of religious Holidays. The artwork was  designed by Hallmark, the &quot;card people&quot;. A very cosy book, just  for those cold winter afternoons when you don't know what to say or write  in your correspondence.	2000-07-15
US	53055592	R300GZX0L6I0Q6	094839711X	796460578	In Private - In Public: The Prince and Princess of Wales	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A very blunt opinion:	This is a very well illustrated, matter-of-fact volume which presents a picture that we now know never existed of the Royal couple. It is a good reference to know the way a Royal Household is run; the tours, the public  events, the planning and the organization of it all. Other than that, the  book mostly focuses on the opinions and ideas of Prince Charles at the  time, making very brief references to Diana, most of them untrue. One  cannot help becoming nostalgic at the sight of so many idyllic pictures of  a family life that never was, and it makes one wonder: what would it have  been like if Charles and Diana had remained married AND in love? Most  likely, the Princess would be alive today, probably with a couple more  children and, like a banner in the crowd read on their wedding day -  &quot;Charles and Diana will rule U.K.&quot;. It is a shame that the  Establishment authorizes books like this, so untrue.	2000-07-03
US	53055592	R13IR4TDEJS3H3	0688154409	715673890	The Pleasures of Staying in Touch: Writing Memorable Letters	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	Let's go write a letter!	May I reccommend this book to everyone who wants to re-capture friendship through the art of letter writing? When I was half-way through it I felt a quenching eagerness to write a letter right away... to anybody! It will  definitely wheat your appetite to write (and read) great letters. It  acomplishes this in a very practical way, through the words of great  letter-writers such as Madame de S&eacute;vign&eacute;, Jane Austen and Emily Dickinson;  so it's a wonderful gift for fans of these authors as well. &quot;Victoria:  the pleasures of staying in touch&quot; is a book that invites re-reading  until one can fully grasp the true jewels it presents, those jewels that  have crossed oceans of time and are still here for us to enjoy: the great  writers and their letters.	2000-06-09
US	53055592	R18MTS78QC0XPS	0061043575	414807640	Whose Body? (Lord Peter Wimsey Mysteries)	Books	3	1	5	N	N	New twist on mysteries	When I first read this book about two years ago it disgusted me profoundly. I found the main character, Lord Peter Wimsey, exasperant, his servant too 'servile' and the language bewildering. Two years later I am inclined to be a little less partial; still...<br />\\"Whose body?\\" was the first mystery story Dorothy L. Sayers wrote, where she introduced us to her sleuth, the debonair, rich, book collector and nonsense-talking Lord Peter. He lives in a posh Picadilly apartment with a manservant by the name of Mervyn Bunter. I always thought Bunter could have been further developed; simply because he seems to have much more of a head on his shoulders and his feet on the floor than his employer does. In this, their first adventure, Lord Peter is made aware by his mother, the enchanting and very shrewd Dowager Duchess of Denver, of an unknown body being found on a neighboor's bathroom. No one seems to know who the unfortunate individual was, nor how he happened upon the bathroom of poor old Mr. Thipps. So in comes Lord Peter with his nonsense talk and his charming ways to investigate. He has a good friend who 'just happens' to be an actual detective and who will, in time, facilitate his work through official channels. I must say one thing that surprised me is how Lord Peter can make all the deductions until he finally elucidates the crime, while still being so much devoid of bright comments; but there we have it.<br />There is a lot of dialogue in this novel and I find that a plus. I am a big fan of dialogue in fiction because I find it a great tool for natural development of the story. However, not everyone will understand a Londoner's words and mannerisms and this could be confusing, even irritating, at times. Sayers is not, and I repeat, is not, your typical mystery writer 'a la Christie'. She was a scholar and a Christian writer at that and likes to bring these ideas into her stories. I think that's why she also decided to show in this book such anti-semitic ideas against the Jews, that not even the now deceased Dowager Duke of Denver (Lord Peter's father), could tolerate them in his castle. Anti-semitism aside, this book is not for everyone. It demands a bit of an open mind and a good knowlegde of both British customs and language.<br />What I did like about the book is what I always try to find in mysteries: the description of the different settings. Fine rare books and mahogany furniture, prime dining and a big estate in the country surround Lord Peter's life. Idealistic? Maybe, but no less charming.inst the Jews, that not even the now deceased Dowager Duke of Denver (Lord Peter's father), could tolerate them in his castle. Anti-semitism aside, this book is not for everyone. It demands a bit of an open mind and a good knowlegde of both British customs and language.<br />What I did like about the book is what I always try to find in mysteries: the description of the different settings. Fine rare books and mahogany furniture, prime dining and a big estate in the country surround Lord Peter's life. Idealistic? Maybe, but no less charming.	2000-05-06
US	53055592	R3GMDT49RDUJJO	0425130274	865137997	The Secret Adversary	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Where is Jane Finn?	As the famous Lusitania sinks during an afternoon in 1917, a young American girl is surreptitiously entrusted with an oilskin packet containing important government papers. She is to take them to the Ambassador at once as soon as she is on land. Her name is Jane Finn, and her ordeal is just beginning. It'll be five full years until her life is safe from danger - and the mystery is solved - by one of the most famous pair of sleuths of all time: Tommy Beresford and Prudence - Tuppence - Cowley.<br />The pair run into each other while at their tethers' end and scrounge into one of London's tea-rooms. The war has made things tough, and none of them has a job. It all changes when Tommy hears the name `Jane Finn' by chance up in the air, in reference to a girl who seems to have disappeared from the face of the earth. Just for the fun of it, they decide to place an ad in the local paper searching for information. Responses do not take long to arrive and, faster than one can say \\"conspiracy\\" The Young Adventurers, Ltd. is in business. The job is dangerous and the adventures many, but that would not deterred neither unimaginative Tommy, nor intuitive Tuppence. Under the hidden commission of the UK government - all expenses paid - they take up rooms at the Ritz and start on Jane Finn's toes. All the while, UK's most wanted master criminal, \\"Mr. Brown\\" is on their own toes. First is Tommy who gets kidnapped, then Tuppence, until finally, and after many misapprehensions, \\"...Mr. Brown is in this room...\\" and he's got both Tuppence and Jane! Or has he?<br />This is more a story of espionage rather than a mystery an it has a superbly intricate plot. It is very interesting that Christie chose for her second novel a total departure from her first and most famous creation, the Belgian detective Hercule Poirot; and chose to create two totally different characters. The strong plotting and the eagerness of the story might almost suggest she would have taken upon writing many more Tommy and Tuppence novels than she actually wrote, with the very possible exception that when the Cold War was over, their destinies were sealed.<br />This is a novel where all the pieces are scattered at the beginning and, coming to an end, they all get put together dutifully using that great Christie wrap-up style. It is also possibly one of her most candid books.and Tuppence novels than she actually wrote, with the very possible exception that when the Cold War was over, their destinies were sealed.<br />This is a novel where all the pieces are scattered at the beginning and, coming to an end, they all get put together dutifully using that great Christie wrap-up style. It is also possibly one of her most candid books.	2000-04-03
US	53055592	R3OBOKXIIA1A4U	0425129616	89648832	The Mysterious Affair at Styles (Hercule Poirot)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Agatha's first case	For lovers of 'cozies', this first adventure of the famous Belgian detective Hercule Poirot, is mother's milk. It is such an entertaining, such a comfy novel; that even though Agatha Christie has created others much bettter, one can still appreciate her masterful techniques from the very begginning.<br />The place is Styles Court, a great English country house in the village of Styles-St.-Mary, in Essex. The victim, Emily A. Inglethorp, the matriarch of the Cavendish family who has recently re-married. The suspects? Well, there are many, but her infamous new husband, Alfred Inglethorp, heads the list. The story starts with a re-telling acccount given by Captain Arthur Hastings, an old friend of Poirot, who ultimately brings him into the case to elucidate the murderer. As soon as Hastings arrives at Styles, he clearly senses that not all is well. His old friend John Cavendish tells him he is in financial trouble. John's wife, who conveys to Hastings \\"the impression of a wild untamed spirit in an exquisitely civilized body\\"; is entirely enigmatical. Emily's assistant, Evie, is a practical and matter-of-fact woman who \\"had a large sensible square body\\". Although we never really learn what such bodys look like, we can immediately picture them. Here, I find, lies one of the secrets of truly masterful character description. Even very early in the book, we come across the famous description of Poirot: \\"...hardly more than five feet, four inches...\\", with \\"the head exactly the shape of an egg\\", which \\"he always perched a little on one side. His moustache was very stiff and military.\\" He was so incredibly neat that \\"a speck of dust would have caused him more pain than a bullet wound.\\" The description of the characters is unique, and so is the great amount of interactivity among them. They are not a huge lot, but there's enough of them to give us a supply of good complications and 'red herrings': the sinister Mr. Inglethorp, the unimaginative John Cavendish and his perhaps too imaginative brother Lawrence, the servants, even the townsfolk. All the characters play their roles in due course, with none overshawing the others.<br />This is a very complete novel and, as such, is also very graphic. There are at least five illustrations created by the author, among plans of the house and handwritten letters. The reader has - apparently - all the clues at hand. This was very common at the time, as well as the titling of each chapter. It all works to provide us with the whole picture. Poirot displays his wits to no end (with quite a bit of activity I must say that we don't find in later novels), and the story - typical of the rules of a good mystery for the 1920's - ends happily for everyone involved except, maybe for Hastings; who seems to be looking for a wife but has no luck in finding the right one. Ah! No problem, mon ami, perhaps in the next adventure?o imaginative brother Lawrence, the servants, even the townsfolk. All the characters play their roles in due course, with none overshawing the others.<br />This is a very complete novel and, as such, is also very graphic. There are at least five illustrations created by the author, among plans of the house and handwritten letters. The reader has - apparently - all the clues at hand. This was very common at the time, as well as the titling of each chapter. It all works to provide us with the whole picture. Poirot displays his wits to no end (with quite a bit of activity I must say that we don't find in later novels), and the story - typical of the rules of a good mystery for the 1920's - ends happily for everyone involved except, maybe for Hastings; who seems to be looking for a wife but has no luck in finding the right one. Ah! No problem, mon ami, perhaps in the next adventure?	2000-03-28
US	53055592	R1E8MIOC8PLT9E	039452554X	387723417	Agatha Christie: A Biography	Books	4	11	13	N	N	The best documented biography of the Queen of Mystery	Agatha Christie's life was a mystery all by itself. She loathed publicity and got nervous if asked to speak in public. She didn't like talking about her life either. In writing this book, Janet Morgan has had the privilege  to consult the most private sources in reference to Christie's life and  friends. The result is an extremely thorough biography, mostly written with  quotes from Agatha Christie's own papers and letters. It is an entertaining  book and a joy to read, although sometimes extensive. I would reccommend  this book to anyone interested in having a wholesome picture of the life of  A.C.	2000-03-24
US	53055592	ROKTJVXEWX0X8	0877797145	300284784	Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary, Deluxe Edition	Books	5	18	19	N	Y	The definite dictionary for everyone's library	I bought this dictionary while I was taking a vocabulary building course, following the suggestions of my teacher, the acclaimed linguist Charles Herrington Elster. Besides thoroughness, he insisted in the importance of etymology as inclusive of a good dictionary, a feature that is here detailed with precision, and something that is often left out of impressive volumes like the &quot;Oxford Illustrated&quot;, published by DK Publishing.<br />This is a huge volume (about 3&quot; thick), beautifully presented in library style binding and wafer thin, high quality paper. It includes illustrations, anecdotes, stories on word origins and usage; and even synonyms of particularly interesting words. These references are spread throughout the pages in different blocks of color for easy recognition. The illustrations are very realistic, using colors that approach the ones given by Mother Nature. Before starting to use it, I reccommend paying close attention to the &quot;Explanatory Notes&quot;. Here is everything needed to know in order to milk this dictionary to its fullest. Every reason is given as to why items appear listed in the way they do, what were the basis used for etymology of the words, etc. The &quot;Guide to Pronounciation&quot; is both interesting and exciting, enabling us to produce a myriad of sounds we probably never knew existed. I am the kind of reader who looks up every unknown word in her dictionary and, so far, there is not a single one I haven't found; not even if belonging to a dialect or if it is a word with foreign roots.<br />Two appendixes complete this magnanimous volume: a biographical one and a geographical guide. Although brief, these two listings will quickly clear up any doubts on identity or place. There are also listings for symbols, such as weather, chemistry, mathematics, even stamp collecting. A supplementary &quot;Handbook of Style&quot; to refer to when writing a paper or in need of punctuation advise completes the dictionary and makes also an invaluable tool for writers of any kind.<br />This is THE dictionary that should be in every household as a more general, complete reference. Even if there are other, smaller or more specific references around; you would want this volume as your backbone.s also an invaluable tool for writers of any kind.<br />This is THE dictionary that should be in every household as a more general, complete reference. Even if there are other, smaller or more specific references around; you would want this volume as your backbone.	1999-08-06
US	53055592	R1I0XW3HIF96L8	0312961278	252562081	The Empty House	Books	3	32	36	N	N	For those who love the English country life...	...but don't care about a good plotline, I should say. The book's only attraction is its description of farming and beaches and Cornwall's country life, but if you are looking for a good storyline, this is not it. This is  the first book I read by this author because I saw the movie based on  another of her novels, &quot;September&quot; (which was charming). However,  if you would like to start to know Rosamunde Pilcher's gifted pen do not  start with this book because you will definitely think she's not good  enough.	1999-06-12
US	53055592	R2WHWZMO797LV4	1886894493	388217271	Abba: The Name of the Game	Books	4	2	6	N	N	The &quot;ups&quot; and &quot;downs&quot; of the Kings -and Queens- of pop	Just as the &quot;Melody Maker&quot; puts it, this book is &quot;outrageously entertaining&quot;. I've had my good laughs with it.  There is no question about it, these people know what they are talking  about and they are not just talking. They might be a little exagerating at  times, but they definitely know the music business and I do believe they  also know what went on in ABBA throghout the group's life. It has to be  true, simply because it fits. When this book first came out in 1995 it was  rejected by many ABBA fans as a complete misinterpretation of the actual  situations within the group's circle. I can tell you this right now: this  book is not written by ABBA fans and is not for ABBA fans. It is written  objectively (sometimes a bit sarcastically) by three people who did their  research and are also connosseurs of the music business.  In the book  there are separate chapters for each of the four members, and even one for  their manager Stig Anderson (now recently passed away), a character it  studies extensively. On each biography there is not only the description of  their lives, but also their mentality and (very important), the historical  context.  Chapter 2 does an excellent comparison between ABBA's music  and most other legends and comes up to the conclusion that Bj&ouml;rn Ulvaeus  and Benny Andersson are the greatest songwriters in history.  The book  is polemical, but nevertheless a very interesting read and very well  structured. If you want to have one book about ABBA, which also allows you  the possibility of insights into many other artists, then get this volume  which becomes even more mouthwatering every time you read it.	1998-12-24
US	53055592	RUZ7LJM4WZXEC	006098712X	845436722	Days of Our Lives: Complete Family Album, The	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A bad re-count of an excellent soap	Although &quot;Days of our Lives&quot; is the great epitome of a soap  opera made in great style and with lots of good taste and an intriguing  plot-line, the book does not do it justice. If, like myself, you are  purchasing the book to see what went on in Salem all those years you didn't  even know it existed, don't do it. Half of the book is dedicated to the  re-telling of the story-line, but it's poorly done, and you get lost after  the third page. Of course you will pick-up bits and pieces here and there,  but that's all. The narration jumps from one character to the next one  without any correlation, and you end up wondering what happened to all  these people and where they went when they aren't mentioned any longer. (In  this sense, I have a question to the author: whatever happened to Kayla  Brady?). The parts that are interesting are the ones that have to do with  interviews to the present cast, how it is like a normal day in the set,  interviews with the producers, etc. There is also the most complete Cast  List, with the years and different actors that played each character; as  well as a tribute-biography of the &quot;patriarch&quot; McDonald Carey  (Dr. Tom Horton). Finally, you can also buy this book for its photographs,  which are good, but not lavish. The design is a bit out of fashion for my  taste. I guess if we are to have a memento of &quot;Days&quot; we can  always get this volume, but if you have a chance, keep looking.	1998-08-26
US	53055592	RXJZRJ2OZOH2Y	1566492939	536768628	Dressing Diana	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	Good illustrative fashion chronicle	With all the hoopla regarding Prince William and Kate Middleton's wedding, I thought it only fair to have, yet again, a stroll down memory lane and look back to Diana, her style, her beauty and her essence.<br /><br />This book analyzes Diana's style from her early years as a Royal Princess who was trying very hard to \\"fit in\\", to the confident woman of the nineties until her untimely death.  Photographer Tim Graham, who over the years photographed the Waleses both in private and in public (publishing a book by that name as well), and Fashion Editor Tamsin Blanchard, offer a lavish book with full colour photographs of many of the most important outfits the Princess wore.<br /><br />The volume shows how when Diana started her life in the royal family, she was shy and insecure, and her fashion choices deeply reflected her personality at that time.  There were lots of romantic, flowery dresses, quite a few of them by designers Bellville Sassoon and milliner John Boyd (one of the Queen's favorites).  The hats often had feathers and looked awkward on her head.<br /><br />As her marriage crumbled and her figure improved, Diana went for the \\"Dynasty Di\\" look of the mid and late eighties on the hand of names such as the exquisite Victor Edelstein, who created the unforgettable navy blue velvet gown first worn to the White House to dance with John Travolta; and Bruce Oldfield, who created a stunning lam&eacute; number for her.  Lots of colour, big hair and royal blue eyeliner, which naturally brought out her eyes, were the trademarks of this time.<br /><br />After her divorce Diana grew more and more confident.  She was now her own person, living life the way she had always wanted privately, and focusing totally and with a unique force and interest into her charity work.  Her wardrobe was that of a professional working woman, with smart suits and shorter hemlines for daytime and glamorous gowns for the galas she was attending at night.  Her hair was sleek and she adopted a chic and minimalist approach.<br />The book includes special references to details and accessories the princess used, as well as her love for jewellery and how she adapted many of her pieces for cleverly customized looks.  Towards the end, some of Diana's most endearing designers are interview and photographed in their own ateliers, with a special spread on Catherine Walker, Diana's backbone designer of all time, now sadly deceased.<br /><br />But beyond all the wonderful clothes, which suited her perfectly and made her look stunning, Diana was most loved and will always be missed by her very own nature.  Milliner Philip Somerville summarizes that je ne sais quoi of the Princess, that made her so beloved the world over, very simply and succinctly when he states \\"she glowed warmth\\" (page 204).  And that was, undoubtedly, Diana's most endearing quality.hic and minimalist approach.<br />The book includes special references to details and accessories the princess used, as well as her love for jewellery and how she adapted many of her pieces for cleverly customized looks.  Towards the end, some of Diana's most endearing designers are interview and photographed in their own ateliers, with a special spread on Catherine Walker, Diana's backbone designer of all time, now sadly deceased.<br /><br />But beyond all the wonderful clothes, which suited her perfectly and made her look stunning, Diana was most loved and will always be missed by her very own nature.  Milliner Philip Somerville summarizes that je ne sais quoi of the Princess, that made her so beloved the world over, very simply and succinctly when he states \\"she glowed warmth\\" (page 204).  And that was, undoubtedly, Diana's most endearing quality.	1998-08-14
US	53055592	R31WVDNDMG8M6Q	1551978466	311812321	Forever My Lady: Diana	Books	4	4	5	N	Y	"Genuine goodness is threatening to those at the opposite end of the moral spectrum"	The above words were included in the poignant eulogy Charles Spencer gave at Westminster Abbey on 6th September, 1997 during his sister's funeral, the beloved Princess Diana of Wales (page 230).  Personally, I was a staunch fan of the Princess.  I admired her for her courage, her compassion and her fearlessness at appearing as a \\"human\\" Royal.  Diana was the only glamorous woman I can think of who was not resented by the rest of society for projecting that glamour and living an expensive lifestyle.  It was all part of her endeavors, her devotion to the causes she held dear, and a testament to her true humanity and inner beauty.<br /><br />After her death, I bought as many magazines and books about her as I could get my hands on, fearing I would never be able to see her image again.  I needed her persona to draw inspiration from, and now I would no longer have that option.  This book presents an average re-telling of Diana's life, but where it stands out is in the extensive genealogical tree of the Spencers that it offers on chapter 1, showing their almost constant proximity to British Royalty through the centuries.  Ironically, no Spencer would ever become part of Britain 's Royalty until Diana.  And yet, she never became the Queen of England and its other territories.<br /><br />As I was reading the book, I mentally re-lived those moments of intense sadness due first to the upset she obviously went through during her loveless marriage, followed by the terrible news of her demise.  Earl Spencer's eulogy, fully transcribed, brought tears to my eyes, as well as the full description of her funeral, which is cited complete with readings by her sisters with a full transcript of the mass.  My favorite verses, which I find just a perfect reflection of Diana's memory, were read by her sister Lady Jane Fellowes:<br /><br />\\"Time is too slow for those who wait,<br />too swift for those who fear,<br />too long for those who grieve,<br />too short for those who rejoice,<br />but for those who love, time is eternity.\\"<br /><br />The other narrative that sets this book apart is the preface by Dame Barbara Cartland, Diana's step-grandmother.  Dame Cartland pairs the symbolism of Diana identifying her as the essence of love, and brings up the very sad, ironic notion that, although she managed to capture the hearts of millions, she could not capture her husband's (page 13).  This obviously distressed and hurt Diana to no end, making her unhappy in her private life and marking her forever devoid of experiencing the true feeling she was so fond of giving.  Just when she was discovering love again, she was taken from this world, along with her new love, Dodi Al Fayed.<br /><br />Although speculations on her death abound, I will only say that the world was undoubtedly a better place with Diana in it.  She could have achieved so much for the poor and the downtrodden.  The book offers a sad reminder of a wish and a life that was cut short, its positive influence remaining forever incomplete.\\"    The other narrative that sets this book apart is the preface by Dame Barbara Cartland, Diana's step-grandmother.  Dame Cartland pairs the symbolism of Diana identifying her as the essence of love, and brings up the very sad, ironic notion that, although she managed to capture the hearts of millions, she could not capture her husband's (page 13).  This obviously distressed and hurt Diana to no end, making her unhappy in her private life and marking her forever devoid of experiencing the true feeling she was so fond of giving.  Just when she was discovering love again, she was taken from this world, along with her new love, Dodi Al Fayed.    Although speculations on her death abound, I will only say that the world was undoubtedly a better place with Diana in it.  She could have achieved so much for the poor and the downtrodden.  The book offers a sad reminder of a wish and a life that was cut short, its positive influence remaining forever incomplete.	1998-08-12
US	53055592	R3RN2HIXXD7J0C	0312950519	593075015	Diana in Private: The Princess Nobody Knows	Books	4	15	18	N	Y	The other side of the story?	Lady Colin Campbell plunges deeply into her task of gossip-biographer by talking to numerous Royal sources (sometimes unmentioned courtiers themselves), so that the layman can understand the reasoning and mechanics of Royalty. The book covers details from the Waleses everyday life to their most public appearances, and it is a deep study of their personalities. More than once, it is suggested that the institution of the Monarchy will not tolerate people who may put it in the merest of jeopardies, even if they do come from privileged backgrounds, have produced the \\"heir and the spare\\" and are the future consort. It opens up the layman's eyes as of how, in the end, such people are dealt with.<br /><br />Throughout her life, Diana was surrounded by privilege. From her early childhood she used to play with the children of the Royal household, later on becoming a Lady herself when her father inherited Althorp House, possibly one of the greatest estate houses in the world; and crowning it all with her marriage to the Prince of Wales. She was the first Princess Wales had had in over 100 years, and throughout her life, she was as controversial as she was adored.  The way this unusual woman developed from her childhood was marked by her parents' divorce. As the book explains in detail, the Spencers' divorce was a highly publicized scandal, and the fact that Diana's grandmother testified against her own daughter and in favor of her father, put the stigma of emotional depravity not only in Diana but in her siblings as well. Why, as a mother, one would take such a position is beyond me, but it certainly explains much of the behavior Diana exhibited as an adult. Her temper tantrums, her stubbornness, her need for being the centre of attention at all times, were obviously all borne out of the need to survive and to feel appreciated. That is how this extremely shrewd young woman emerged as the media darling that grew so much in people's hearts and in courtiers' bottoms. It was also how, a sensitive but very selfish man as the Prince of Wales, felt disenchanted about his wife from a very early stage in the marriage. Charles, himself a very deep thinker, could not comprehend how she was not interested in expanding her mind: \\"I don't understand it, she doesn't read. Can't you get her to read?\\" (Page 195). Later on she did, albeit too late for the marriage to survive. And that's when, following the advice of one of the most sensible astrologers of Britain by the name of Penny Junor, she took to charity work with enthusiasm and gusto. Birthright, Help the Aged and CRUSAID were some of the many charities she would champion during her short but intense life. The book comes to an end just before their divorce, stating, \\"Barring a calamity, she will remain a large part of our lives for the remainder of this century and well into the next.\\" (Page 331) Funny how certain statements, mostly made for purposes of a mere comment, could come true with such boldness.<br /><br />I have to give kudos to Lady Colin Campbell for her talent as a writer. She was born in Jamaica. The victim of fused labia and a deformed clitoris, she was registered as a boy and brought up like one. At 21 she had an operation to correct the deformities and married an English aristocrat called Lord Colin Campbell. Eventually they separated and she kept custody of their adoptive children. Nowadays, she makes her living as a writer from her London home just off Sloane Square, the place where Princess Diana used to live when she was single. In this book, she starts with one of the most eloquent portraits I have read about a person. It is indeed as if one was with the Princess face to face: \\"As she approaches, the first thing you notice is how tall she is...\\" The next thing that strikes you is how animated yet serene she is (...) she is warm, witty and down-to-earth: she is natural...\\" \\"Diana's mouth is non-descript. It neither enhances nor detracts from her face.\\" \\"Her nose could never becalled conventionally beautiful... [however] ... without it, her face would lose much of its impact and all of its uniqueness.\\" (Pages 1 & 2).<br /><br />This is indeed a good book for those who want to feel part of a Royal Family - without having been born into one. Because of an interest in learning more about the British aristocracy's ways and standards of living, I picked up this book which does have a lot of gossip, but one can tell right from the get go that it was written by a true insider in such circles. I did some research on the charities Diana championed. A good place to start is a website called \\"The Work Continues\\" ( []) It's the official site for the Princess of Wales Memorial Trust Fund, presided by her eldest sister, Lady Sarah McCorquodale.<br /><br />\\"Diana in private: the Princess nobody knows\\" was as explosive as the Morton book \\"Diana: her true story\\", when it came out. The difference lays, mainly, in that the latter was evidently pro-Diana and anti-Charles; while Lady Colin's claimed to present an unbiased view of the relationship between them. Even though I wouldn't call this book `unbiased',it is presented as a recollection of many people who obviously were in close contact not only with the Royal Couple, but with the whole of the Royal Family.ionally beautiful... [however] ... without it, her face would lose much of its impact and all of its uniqueness.\\" (Pages 1 & 2).    This is indeed a good book for those who want to feel part of a Royal Family - without having been born into one. Because of an interest in learning more about the British aristocracy's ways and standards of living, I picked up this book which does have a lot of gossip, but one can tell right from the get go that it was written by a true insider in such circles. I did some research on the charities Diana championed. A good place to start is a website called \\"The Work Continues\\" ( []) It's the official site for the Princess of Wales Memorial Trust Fund, presided by her eldest sister, Lady Sarah McCorquodale.    \\"Diana in private: the Princess nobody knows\\" was as explosive as the Morton book \\"Diana: her true story\\", when it came out. The difference lays, mainly, in that the latter was evidently pro-Diana and anti-Charles; while Lady Colin's claimed to present an unbiased view of the relationship between them. Even though I wouldn't call this book `unbiased',it is presented as a recollection of many people who obviously were in close contact not only with the Royal Couple, but with the whole of the Royal Family.	1998-08-02
US	53055592	RQL48334HZPA1	0684835819	980095103	My Story	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Candid, entertaining and very straight forward	I was very pleasently surprised when I read this book by the Duchess of York. She should definitely pursue a writing career. She has the gift! The book has a marvellous description not only of her feelings but also of her surroundings in every circumstance. On the Duchess's behalf, one must say that she is a woman who accepts her mistakes without blaming others for them; a quality very hard to find in a person nowadays.	1998-07-24
US	53055592	RCMB0B6HI9ZP2	068485080X	88681578	Diana: 1961-1997 Her True Story	Books	4	8	10	N	N	A great and truthful biographical book, wonderfully written	For us admirers of the late Princess of Wales, this book is certainly like a Bible. It is very thourough and painfully eye-opening, especially as it reveals the story of a simple young girl and her very rude - sometimes cruel - awakening to a life where the heart of gold is really as cold as ice. My hat is off to both the Princess and Mr. Morton for having been so courageous.	1998-07-22
