US	53054079	R3QY200DRW93CZ	0441011268	339809933	Heirs Of Earth	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Wraps up the trilogy, but not all the questions	I really enjoyed the first two books of this trilogy, and so I eagerly awaited Heirs of Earth, the final installment.  When I finally got my copy, I read it from cover to cover in short order.  But this was not necessarily because Heirs is an extremely engaging novel.  On the contrary, I found that the momentum built up in the first two novels was most of what carried me through this one.<br />Now don't get me wrong - Williams and Dix continue to display their very accesible writing style here, making Heirs an enjoyable read.  And the story unfolds in a way that is pretty consistent with what went before.  But the authors' attempts to convey the Spinners and Starfish as so far advanced as to be unfathomable by mere humans, while perhaps a valid approach to the story, is somewhat less than entertaining.  After the third or so passage describing the hyper-advanced alien technology, I felt as if I was reading a child's primer on shapes and colors.<br />To top it off, not only do we not get any satisfactory description of the characters' encounter with the aliens, we are left with no explanation as to their motivations or even what happens at the end to resolve the situation.  Did I get the sense that we, as humans, couldn't comprehend what was going on?  Yes.  Did I find this interesting or engaging?  Not really.<br />If you've read the first two installments of the trilogy, by all means finish it out.  You will want to find out what happens, as I did.  But please set your expectations properly - you will be left with resolution, but very few answers.	2004-02-16
US	53054079	R2139N3UHY6CAH	0812579844	887642373	The Golden Age (The Golden Age, Book 1)	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Dazzling Vision of the Far Future	Author John C. Wright has received a lot of praise for this, his first novel - and deservedly so.  Set millennia in the future, he envisions humanity at a time when its command of the physical world, already very advanced, almost pales beside its command of the world of mentality.  People have the ability to alter their perceptions and memories, to achieve immortality by making backup copies of their minds, and even to change their mental architecture.  This last ability results in a wide variety of physical and mental forms, each with a different set of capabilities, broadening the kinds of &quot;people&quot; who inhabit Wright's Golden Oecumene.<br />The effect of these and other advances is to render society completely free of crime and deception.  People can tailor the way in which they experience reality, and can even choose to live within a virtual reality of their own making.  In many ways, it's a Utopian vision that Wright puts forward, hence the title of the book.  However, under this brilliant near-perfect facade, troubling questions remain.<br />What is the value of the privacy that citizens relenquish when they join the shared mind-space that makes Golden Oecumene society possible?  How are the long-term prospects for humanity affected when no one has need or reason to strive for ever greater goals?  And how can a society that has seen no war for thousands of years deal with an unseen and unexpected external threat?  Wright tackles these questions and more through this tale of Phaethon, his protagonist, who discovers that he has been accused of deeds so threatening to the Oecumene that his memories of them have been erased.<br />Not only is The Golden Age enthralling for its grand vision of the future, but the tale of mystery and discovery that Wright crafts is compelling and quite enjoyable.  I was drawn into this tale from the beginning, and never once lost interest.  The only warning I would give a potential reader is that this is the first installment of a trilogy, and that more questions are asked than answered here.  But having read the first two installments, I would say without reservation that this is a trilogy worth investing some time in.ent of a trilogy, and that more questions are asked than answered here.  But having read the first two installments, I would say without reservation that this is a trilogy worth investing some time in.	2003-11-06
US	53054079	R18Y8UNBR4W8W8	0441008925	517711274	Echoes of Earth	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	Unexpected and Entertaining	I've been reading science fiction for 25 years, and these days it's rare for me to encounter something that evokes the same wonder and excitement I felt the first time I read Ringworld or the Foundation Trilogy.  Echoes of Earth is just such a novel.<br />This book held my attention from cover to cover, starting with the mystery of an alien race that bestows wonderous technological gifts to the first human interstellar explorers, and continuing with the frightening and awe-inspiring discovery by the explorers of just why Earth fell silent 100 years earlier.  The conclusion of this book is the most surprising of all, but I will say nothing of that here, save that Williams and Dix take their storyline to an extreme that few authors would dare.<br />One of the most gratifying things about Echoes of Earth is that the authors didn't just crank out a cookie cutter plot - there were plenty of unexpected surprises to keep me on my toes, and to lend a sense of freshness to the story.  What's more, the choice of a damaged engram who is struggling to remain stable as the primary character adds another layer of interest to this novel.  (An engram is a computer simulation of a human mind, based on the memories and personality of an actual person.)<br />I can't really think of anything negative to say about this book.  You should be forewarned, however, that when you get to the end you will immediately want to run out and purchase the next book in the series: Orphans of Earth.  I know I did, because it's just that good!	2003-10-22
US	53054079	R2NY4RWF60X5K1	0441010644	718327533	Chasm City (Revelation Space)	Books	3	36	39	N	N	Didn't Meet My Expectations	After reading Revelation Space, Reynolds' first novel, I was hoping to enjoy Chasm City just as much.  In fact, I tried - really, really hard - to enjoy this book more than I did.  But if I'm honest, it fell far short of my expectations.<br />As in Revelation Space, Reynolds interweaves multiple storylines in this book, each of them occurring in a different time frame.  However, he doesn't handle them nearly as deftly as he did in his first novel, making Chasm City a rather uneven read.  I agree with the other reviewers who felt that the Sky Hausmann storyline is the best part of the book.  By contrast, the Chasm City storyline, which is ostensibly the main plotline of this novel, is very shaky.  The characters behave unbelievably, the environment (Chasm City itself) is not nearly as interesting as it could have been, and the author ruins most of the plot twists by dropping numerous obvious hints along the way.  In the end, I couldn't even forgive Tanner Mirabel his erratic behavior, even though Reynolds tries to justify it through one of his plot twists.<br />Don't get me wrong - this is not a terrible book.  In fact, parts of it are great.  In addition to the Sky Hausmann story, I thought that the first couple of chapters with Tanner Mirabel were riveting.  It's just that the novel as a whole does not live up to this auspicious beginning.<br />So, while I can't enthusiastically recommend this book, I can make a qualified recommendation: If you loved Revelation Space and want to experience a different part of that universe, consider Chasm City.  Just don't set your expecatations too high.	2003-10-22
US	53054079	R16SCN7PA9OMGO	0441009425	824019804	Revelation Space	Books	5	61	68	N	N	Well written and thoroughly enjoyable!	With Revelation Space, Alastair Reynolds' first novel, he aims high and hits the target almost dead on.  It's a rarity these days to find an author capable of combining hard science fiction with good storytelling, but if this book demonstrates anything, it's that Reynolds is just such an author.  And even more impressive, he does it on a grand scale, weaving together events that take place light-years and decades (and even centuries) apart.<br />I won't bother to outline the story here - I'm sure plenty of other reviewers have already done that.  What I will say is that the author places his characters against the backdrop of human existence several centuries from now, when interstellar space has been colonized, trade ships spend decades plying the space between starts, and human beings exist in a variety of forms, from highly modified cybernetic beings to artificial simulations based on brain scans of the dead.  Yet even on such a grand stage, the characters are never lost - Sylveste, Khouri and Volyova are each strong enough to hold their own, and even if you never find yourself caring about them, you will want to keep reading to learn of their fates.<br />The story is well written and very engaging, and despite the fact that it lost some momentum in the middle, I found myself eagerly turning pages to find out what would happen next.  All in all, though this is not quite a perfect sci-fi novel, it comes close - and definitely deserves five stars!  I would recommend it without hesitation to any fan of hard science fiction.	2003-10-14
US	53054079	R1V0K6ARCXLMKS	0441519180	80172198	The Man Who Never Missed	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A Guilty Pleasure	The Man Who Never Missed is an exciting and engrossing space adventure about a soldier who has an epiphany one day during battle, and as a result decides to take on an empire.  He encounters various characters along the way who teach him valuable lessons, both physical and spiritual, preparing him for the day when he will take his fight to the forces of tyranny in the known galaxy.<br />This is a great novel for what it is - a mythic tale of a hero, how he was formed, and the beginnings of his battle against an unassailable (and of course evil) foe.  If you're looking for characters who are &quot;ordinary mortals&quot; or for some philosophy deeper than &quot;good must triumph over evil&quot;, you won't find it here.  But the thoroughly enjoyable tale that Perry weaves made me look past these points.<br />Sure, TMWNM isn't a great piece of literature, but it's a helluva fun story.  And in the end, don't you want to be entertained as much as enlightened?	2003-09-19
US	53054079	R1QBXBPF9QOEXT	0679734457	486927956	The Divine Invasion	Books	2	7	8	N	N	Not PKD's Best Work	The concept behind this book - that God has been exiled from the Earth and is attempting to return to do battle with evil - was intriguing enough that I bought a copy.  The story that Philip K. Dick spins from this concept doesn't live up to its promise, however.<br />I found the writing in Divine Invasion to be very uneven.  Portions of the story were enjoyable, and the signature PKD theme of altered reality makes its appearance more than once.  But the characters were lacking; apparently divine entities have little or no personality, and the human characters were pretty thin as well.<br />What was most annoying to me, though, was the almost endless theological rumination.  Granted, I expect a novel about God to deal with issues of a divine nature.  But PKD runs on and on at great length, apparently presenting almost any thought he had on the nature of God, Creation, Evil or what-have-you, and with very little focus, so that the story suffers in the end.  Layer on top of this a healthy dose of what would pass for a religous studies curriculum, and Divine Invasion falls flat.<br />I would recommend that you pass on this book and, instead, read a novel that better showcases PKD's talents - say \\"Flow My Tears the Policeman Said\\" or \\"Ubik\\".	2003-09-19
US	53054079	R37MJBDLJXASHQ	0553562967	96085944	Bellwether	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Clever Dilbertian Tale	Bellwether is a novel about some of the folks who work at HiTek corporation, a humorously portrayed workplace whose bureaucracy and dysfunctional operations seem to be ripped right from the pages of Dilbert.  The primary characters are researchers who scramble to keep up with the changes in the paperwork they are required to file to obtain funding for their projects.  They are joined by a hilariously written gofer who does just about everything except the tasks she is given.<br />Connie Willis hits the nail on the head with her portrayal of our society as a herd mentality bent on following the latest trend without thinking about what they are doing or why.  At many points in the story her satire would have had me laughing out loud had it not been so soberingly dead-on.  In the midst of this insanity, a researcher attempts to discover where fads originate and becomes intrigued by a coworker who seems to be &quot;immune&quot; to them.  Their resulting collaboration injects notions from chaos theory into her fad research and, in the end, yields a clever answer.<br />There is nothing profound about the conclusion that Willis comes to - in fact, it is as much tongue-in-cheek as anything in this story.  She makes some minor points regarding chaos theory and the behavior of nonlinear systems, but nothing earth-shattering - this is far from being hard science fiction.  Rather, I found it a clever and very enjoyable tale of the chaos that goes on in our everyday lives, both in the workplace and our personal lives, and how some semblance of order emerges from that chaos.<br />I you're looking for something light and humorous, yet clever and thoughtful, give Bellwether a read.  I truly enjoyed it!	2003-09-18
US	53054079	R1R1UE57SHYM7B	0345402871	687781903	Airframe	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Real Page-Turner	When I first heard of this novel, the subject matter sounded uninteresting to me.  Only after a friend strongly recommended it did I give it any consideration at all.  And even then, I waited until there were no other books on my &quot;to read&quot; list before buying a copy.  Well, I wish I hadn't waited so long.  Airframe is a great book!<br />Michael Crichton brings his usual cinematic writing style to Airframe, reinforcing a suspenseful story with a level of technical detail that brings depth and additional interest to the events that take place.  And while the book is primarily focused on an investigation into an airplace accident, which may sound dry and uninteresting, the character interactions and intrigue are more than enough to keep the story moving at a steady pace.  In fact, there was never a point where I felt the momentum lull.<br />As an added plus, I particularly enjoyed Crichton's portrayal of the news media.  I felt that his unforgiving commentary on the motives and methods of television &quot;news&quot; programs was dead on, and in fact has become even more accurate in the years since he wrote this novel.<br />Kudos to Crichton for this one - I would recommend that anyone read Airframe, and do so before they ruin it by turning it into a movie!	2003-09-01
US	53054079	R2ZFQAMQYLL46U	0345402871	684823314	Airframe	Books	5	0	2	N	N	A Real Page-Turner	When I first heard of this novel, the subject matter sounded uninteresting to me.  Only after a friend strongly recommended it did I give it any consideration at all.  And even then, I waited until there were no other books on my \\"to read\\" list before buying a copy.  Well, I wish I hadn't waited so long.  Airframe is a great book!<br />Michael Crichton brings his usual cinematic writing style to Airframe, reinforcing a suspenseful story with a level of technical detail that brings depth and additional interest to the events that take place.  And while the book is primarily focused on an investigation into an airplace accident, which may sound dry and uninteresting, the character interactions and intrigue are more than enough to keep the story moving at a steady pace.  In fact, there was never a point where I felt the momentum lull.<br />As an added plus, I particularly enjoyed Crichton's portrayal of the news media.  I felt that his unforgiving commentary on the motives and methods of television \\"news\\" programs was dead on, and in fact has become even more accurate in the years since he wrote this novel.<br />Kudos to Crichton for this one - I would recommend that anyone read Airframe, and do so before they ruin it by turning it into a movie!	2003-09-01
US	53054079	R1ZWQMKYCA6EUL	0380812894	807974111	Bones of the Earth	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Time-Twisting Ride	Some reviewers have enjoyed the chapters of this book dealing with dinosaurs, but not the book as a whole.  I have to say that felt very differently reading it myself.  In fact, there were times when I felt that the book was a bit more about biology than I would like, and not enough about time travel.  Be that as it may, I can honestly say that I enjoyed Swanwick's weaving together of these two subjects.<br />There are definitely some points in the book where the nonlinear flow of events is a bit disorienting, but this quickly passes and only makes the time-travel aspect of the story more interesting.  In fact, without these twists and turns, Bones of the Earth would have been just a story about biologists studying exotic wildlife - perhaps worth reading, but perhaps not.<br />Finally, I simply do not buy the complaints about this story's ending (which I will not describe here).  It's not as if it invalidates the time and effort the reader invests in Bones.  Rather, I think that Swanwick has taken a legitimate approach to illustrating the consequences of using (and misusing) time travel.<br />Bones of the Earth is fun and interesting.  Give it a try!	2003-09-01
US	53054079	RGDCCK22DOKYI	0553580078	119744907	The Years of Rice and Salt	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Enjoyable to a Point	It was with some trepidation that I picked up a copy of this lengthy tome and took it home.  As with any book of this size, I knew I was committing myself to a significant investment of time.  But in this case, I also knew that I was taking a risk because I had once tried to read Robinson's first Mars novel, and was unable to complete the task.  So, it was with a certain amount of surprise that I found myself quickly devouring the first half of The Years of Rice and Salt.<br />The author approaches his idea of a world history without Europe from a unique angle, not just writing the story of a an Earth dominated by Chinese and Muslims, but crafting a history that is written entirely through the philosophical and cultural eyes of these people.  He succeeds in illustrating that without the people of Europe, not only would events have unfolded very differently, but the way history itself would be viewed by later generations would be drastically altered.<br />What I enjoyed most in this novel were the characters and the stories of their repeated interactions over the span of history.  Robinson does a good job of making these people believable and interesting, and the tales he tells find them in a myriad of roles, places and situations.  And because he weaves reincarnation throughout this novel, Robinson was able to surprise me with the outcomes of some of his tales, not being restricted to keeping his major characters &quot;alive&quot;.<br />Where this book falls down is when Robinson allows himself to wander away from his tales and into philosiphizing and ruminating over the nature of history.  As the book progresses, this becomes ever more frequent, and in the latter third of the book, I found the going pretty slow.  I understand that he was trying to do more than tell the story of this alternate Earth - he wanted to make some insightful points about the nature of history itself and the role we each play in it.  Be that as it may, I think that The Years of Rice and Salt would be a shorter, and more importantly better, novel if it contained fewer of these thought-provoking and sleep-inducing passages.<br />All in all, I enjoyed this book a great deal, and would recommend it to someone with the right temperment.  If you enjoy fast-paced action, give it a pass.  If you want interesting characters and stories and can take a healthy dose of rumination on the nature of history, perhaps you'll like it.alt would be a shorter, and more importantly better, novel if it contained fewer of these thought-provoking and sleep-inducing passages.<br />All in all, I enjoyed this book a great deal, and would recommend it to someone with the right temperment.  If you enjoy fast-paced action, give it a pass.  If you want interesting characters and stories and can take a healthy dose of rumination on the nature of history, perhaps you'll like it.	2003-08-09
US	53054079	R6A2S0UXA72DL	0345443020	981903971	Perdido Street Station (Bas-Lag)	Books	3	126	138	N	N	Is it a story or a picture?	They say a picture is worth a thousand words.  China Mieville spends endless thousands of words painting pictures in this novel.  Detailed and elaborate descriptive prose is weaved throughout the book, describing in great detail every aspect of New Crobuzon, the city in which the story takes place.  And while I admire the great effort Mieville goes to in order to bring the city to vivid life, in the end I felt that Perdido Street Station suffered for it.<br />Momentum built in the story is repeatedly lost when a long descriptive passage is encountered.  The focus on the characters and events is often lost, and I found myself feeling as if the prose was an intermission to the story, rather than a part of it.  Ultimately, the story and the prose compete with each other so much that I couldn't really gauge whether the story was very good at all.<br />Would I recommend Perdido Street Station?  Well, that depends on what kind of writing you like.  If you enjoy lots of adjective-laden phrases painting verbal pictures, you'll probably like the way Mieville portrays the environs of his gritty, surreal, bizarre city.  If you're looking for a good, entertaining story, you might be disappointed as I was.  Perdido Street Station isn't bad - it's just not for everyone.	2003-06-24
US	53054079	R11JK0GML46F3U	0380789019	511174865	Neverwhere	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Starts off well, but loses something	The beginning of Gaiman's story had me hooked.  I was intrigued with the idea of a mystical parallel existence, and became immediately interested in the female protagonist (Door) and her story.  As soon as the story takes us into London Below, however, it became a bit choppy, losing its initial momentum.<br />The world of London Below is a somewhat interesting fantasy realm, where rats are intelligent and the origins of some of London's place names are revealed in a \\"punny\\" way (e.g. there really is an earl's court at Earls Court).  Space itself seems to operate under different rules in London Below, making for some creative travels between the city rooftops and unimaginable depths.  Within this world, a story unfolds that ranges between interesting and unbelievable, never quite engaging me completely, but never causing me to stop reading.<br />Many of the characters are quite interesting, Door, Croup and Vandemar, and de Carabas among them.  Richard Mayhew, the male protagonist, is a bit of a disappointment though.  As pointed out by other reviewers, his reactions to the extraordinary things that are happening to him are so low-key as to be unbelievable.  Perhaps the author's intent was to show that a man living in the U.K. can be so beaten into conformity by society that he is incapable of reaction.  But if this is the case, it makes Mayhew simply one more tongue-in-cheek aspect of Gaiman's London Below, and hardly a realistic main character.<br />All in all, I found Neverwhere \\"okay\\".  Certainly not as well written as American Gods, which I would recommend you read instead.  Either way, you might read this book to kill time, but keep your expectations in check.	2003-06-24
US	53054079	R20CS76GPI08NX	0345380371	546668910	Rising Sun	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Wonderfully Engaging	From reading some of his other novels, I already knew that Michael Crichton is a great storyteller.  After finishing Rising Sun, I can also say that he is adept at handling diverse subjects.  I originally stayed away from this book because I tend to stick with science fiction, but I'm glad I finally came around and gave it a try.  I really enjoyed this murder-mystery - far more than I expected, to be sure.<br />The only advice I would give someone thinking about buying Rising Sun (other than to do so) is to keep in mind the state of Japanese-American relations at the time the book was written.  Reading it today, it may seem like Crichton is unnecessarily hard on the Japanese, but in 1992 there were serious concerns about the future of our economy and our country in a world soon to be dominated by Japan.  Crichton weaves this fear into the novel by taking his protagonist through an eye-opening and life-changing murder investigation involving both Japanese nationals and corporations.  But the book isn't just about Japan - it stands on its own as an investigative mystery, keeping the suspense and surprises going all the way to the end.<br />While not a literary masterpiece, Rising Sun is solid, entertaining and fun to read.  I recommend it.	2003-06-24
US	53054079	R192KIRYB1NWQ4	0380789035	337033298	American Gods	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Loved It!	Reading other people's reviews, this seems to be a love it or hate it book.  I can see how, for those who don't find the many supernatural characters interesting, American Gods could seem long and boring.  For myself, I thought it was the best book I had read all year.<br />Shadow, the protagonist, is a man who although physically imposing, has the most low key character imaginable.  This puts him in a unique position to relay to the reader, through his own experiences, the events in this story, from the wildly supernatural to the incredibly mundane.  And both of these extremes exist in American Gods, for sure.  But Gaiman's writing is so real that even the mundane, such as a quaint little Wisconsin town in winter, comes vividly to life in a way that makes it interesting.  His characters are real, even the gods, who seem far more human than superhuman - which is apropos for the tale the author tells.<br />Although 600 pages in length, this book felt shorter than many 250-pagers I've read recently.  The momentum is nearly constant from beginning to end, and the settings and characters unforgettable.  I would recommend this to almost anyone.  You'll never believe that the out-of-the-way corners of America could be so interesting!	2003-05-17
US	53054079	R1CW22BUBX9DDF	0812575911	76242400	Elixir	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Wonderfully Written - Thumbs Up!	When I saw how well this book is rated, I figured I'd be able to walk into the bookstore and find a copy on the shelf.  After visting a couple of different retailers, I discovered this is not so!  For whatever reason, I had to buy this one online, which is fine by me but does a GREAT disservice to those who still browse the bookstore shelves.  \\"Elixir\\" is good enough that I would hope to see it widely available for years to come.<br />In this book, Braver has written an expertly crafted tale of suspense.  I won't bore you by repeating plot details that you can find in other reviews.  Suffice it to say that at the center of the story is one man's attempt to bring an anti-aging chemical from the jungles to the world at large.  While the moral and practical ramifications of such a drug are only somewhat addressed by the author, I found the writing to be engaging, the characters believable, and the movement of the story nearly constant.<br />In a way, there is almost a cinematic quality to Elixir, reminiscent somewhat of Michael Crichton's books.  I could easily see Elixir as a movie, but I wouldn't recommend that you wait for that.  Buy a copy of the book and read it now.  You'll be glad you did.	2003-05-09
US	53054079	RCNX0C0AYYNR9	0553294385	297254906	I, Robot (The Robot Series)	Books	2	4	14	N	N	Give it a Pass	I've read Asimov's Foundation Trilogy and enjoyed it, so I know he can do better than this.  The subject matter just isn't that interesting.  Perhaps in the 40's and 50's, when these stories were written, it was enough to have a robotic character to grab people's attention.  But by today's standards, these stories are pretty weak, and no robot can distract from the substandard writing.<br />Subject matter aside, the characters are even worse.  Flat and unrealistic, with dialogue that sounds like it was written by a 7th grader, I found myself hating many of them not because that was the author's intent, but simply because I couldn't stomach the cheesy things they said!<br />All in all, I would recommend that you pass on this one, unless you're just curious to see what passed for science fiction in the early days.	2003-05-09
US	53054079	RSQMVVQ31AF3H	0679761675	647444547	Martian Time-Slip	Books	2	6	9	N	Y	Disappointing	I purchased this book after reading Dick's novels \\"Flow My Tears, The Policeman Said\\" and \\"Ubik\\", both of which I really enjoyed.  I have to say that I was very disappointed with this one.<br />The characters were interesting enough, but the story wasn't and, frankly, it was confusing in places.  The author's attempts to portray the perspective of the autistic boy Manfred Steiner, while creative, did nothing but squander what momentum the story had.  And while the notion that autism might involve a distorted time sense is interesting, his extrapolation of this to an ability to see or even move through time is more than I can swallow.<br />To top this off, Dick commits the sin of too many coincidental relationships.  Jack lives next door to a man whose son is autistic, and in a special school.  Jack ends up working for another man whose son happens to be in the same school.  And, by the way, Jack himself is schizophrenic.  To top it off, he ends up having an affair with his boss' girlfriend, whose brother was also schizophrenic!  There are other unpalatable coincidences in the story, but I won't bore you with the full list.<br />Suffice it to say, I would not recommend this book.  Please do yourself a favor and read \\"Flow My Tears, The Policeman Said\\".  It will give you a much better idea of what PKD is capable of.	2003-04-30
US	53054079	R35WBHI6V623M	083340024X	990653348	Legend	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Imaginative and worth a read	Okay, I agree that this is quite a good book.  I am a bit surprised at the overwhelmingly 5-star reviews, though.  There ARE better books out there, in my opinion.<br />The post-fall-of-civilization world that Maher envisions is inventive and yet pretty believable.  Society has become stratified and stagnant, with many of its residents on the bare edge of survival.  The remnants of civilization are in tatters and barely functioning, victims of entropy with no one to maintain them.<br />Against this backdrop, Maher's story follows two heroes-to-be, Martin and Gena.  I thought that these characters, along with most others in the novel, were pretty well written.  Finding themselves swept up by events not of their own making, the protagonists react just as you or I might - to a point.  It is their very believability that made it difficult for me to buy into their heroic behavior as the story progressed.<br />Martin passes certain tests that no one else can, but how?  Somehow he simply manages to do so where any other person would fail.  Where does this strength come from?  It's written as if he virtually walked through his ordeals, and we get no explanation other than that.  As for Gena, a girl who grew up alone in the most vicious and cutthroat environment possible, she somehow decides in the end to do the right thing by Martin when she has shown nothing but contempt for all the other characters in the story.  Where does this noble impulse come from?<br />These unanswered questions left me with a hint of disappointment precisely because Legend is such a well-written story.  I would definitely recommend it, but can't quite give it five stars.	2003-04-25
US	53054079	RQOSQWO9HT9JR	083340024X	990653348	Legend	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Imaginative and worth a read	Okay, I agree that this is quite a good book. I am a bit surprised at the overwhelmingly 5-star reviews, though. There ARE better books out there, in my opinion.<br />The post-fall-of-Civilization world that Maher envisions is inventive and yet pretty believable. Society has become stratified and stagnant, with many of its residents on the edge of survival. The remnants of Civilization are in tatters and barely functioning, victims of entropy with no one to maintain them. <br />Against this backdrop, Maher's story follows two heroes-to-be, a man and a woman. I thought that these characters, along with most others in the novel, were pretty well written. Finding themselves swept up by events not of their own making, the protagonists react just as you or I might - to a point. It is their very believability that made it difficult as the story progressed to buy their heroic actions.  The male protagonist endures a series of challenges with a stoic nature that the author does not explain.  Sure, it's great to see a person rise to the greatest of challenges, but how is he able to do it where others would fail?  This question is never answered.<br />Still, despite this, I found the story quite compelling and would recommend it to almost anyone.  Entertaining, creative and worth a read!	2003-04-25
US	53054079	R3J8CX4AI4I6NE	0441005667	204362253	Forever Peace	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Contrived	I am really disappointed that this isn't a better book.  The central idea behind it - that soldiers fighting with the benefit of futuristic man-machine interfaces might become conditioned against war - is an intriguing one.  Unfortunately, nothing in the story lives up to the potential of this idea.<br />The characters that ultimately must come together to pull off the climax of this story start off with convenient pre-existing relationships.  This is a pet peeve of mine, and it signals to me that the author didn't want to take the time to develop real relationships between the key players.<br />What's more, the grand end game comes about in an unbelievably short amount of time.  The author seems to think that we'll swallow a series of world-changing events that take place in a matter of months.  Not only that, but through the efforts of a relatively small cast of characters!  I think not.  It just doesn't work for me.<br />I would recommend reading Forever War, a completely different and much better novel.  Then, quit while you're ahead.	2003-04-19
US	53054079	RGJMAZGUNDRKX	0812545249	536696611	The Chronoliths	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Interesting Idea, Less Interesting Story	The premise of this novel is great. I won't waste your time repeating it here - undoubtedly you've already read about it in the other reviews here on Amazon. Suffice it to say, the premise hooked me into buying this book.<br />The story is less so. One of my gripes is that Wilson has the same small set of characters interact through a series of \\"coincidences\\" over two decades as the story unfolds. He explains these away as a time-related side-effect of the chronoliths. Now, I might buy this, except that he never really gives a clear explanation of what the twisted causality is that he refers to. I don't mean that I expect him to give a scientific explanation. But some examples (outside of the coincidental character interactions in the book) to illustrate his idea would lend it credence. Without this, these coincidences come across almost as laziness on the part of the author.<br />I have a hard time putting my finger on what else I didn't like about this book. The story moved along well and the main characters were fairly well-written. Perhaps it's the uneasiness that arose in me as the unfolding story told of a progressively bleak future for the world and the resulting degeneration of the American political scene. We Americans always seem to think of the future as better and brighter, and The Chronoliths points out that this might not always be the case.<br />In the end, I would like to give this story a better rating, but I can't. I might not recommend it, but on the other hand, you wouldn't be wasting your time if you chose to read it.	2003-04-19
US	53054079	R1WUSXN1CUHTRW	0553579703	271355342	Only Forward	Books	3	14	19	N	N	Really good - and yet not	First off let me clarify one thing: This book is both science fiction and fantasy.  If you're a fantasy fan, you probably won't have any trouble with this book.  The sci-fi portions of it are quite creative and not at all hard.  If your a science fiction fan, though, tread carefully!  The last half of this book requires some serious suspension of disbelief.<br />Now, as for my opinion of the story, I have to say it was a bit of a rollercoaster ride for me.  At first it was a little hard to get into, because Smith applies a bit of quirky British humor in spots, and though I usually enjoy that it doesn't quite work for me here.  However, once I came to terms with this, the first half of the book was really great.  I enjoyed the action, the characters and The City - and the action!  Then, in the second half, it took a nose dive.  Frankly, I found the whole notion of Jeamland cheesy and unpalatable.  And I like cheese!  *Ahem*  Anyway, by the final fifty pages or so, things seem to get more or less back on track, and the ending had me flipping pages as fast as I could.<br />In summary, parts of this book deserve two stars and parts of it deserve four, so overall I have to rate it a three.  Would I recommend this one?  Not unless I knew your tastes well enough to think you'd like Jeamland more than I did.	2003-04-19
US	53054079	RKI7MQYN2A86F	0380708213	223407615	The Forever War	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Classic for a Reason	While not a perfect novel, Forever War is an interesting and thoughtful book that interweaves two primary ideas.  The first is the question of how relativistic time-dilation would affect our ability to fight war on an interstellar scale.  Haldeman deals with this by envisioning a war that takes place over an equally long span of time, with central command structures designed to plan over centuries and future technologies that retrain soldiers who find themselves living long past their contemporaries.<br />The second primary idea in Forever War is very simple: war is hell.  He writes detailed accounts of battle with unknown aliens from the soldier's perspective, and in doing so portrays war as the ugly business that it is.  As an aside to this, he also asks the question, When we don't understand our enemy, how confident can we be that the war we're fighting is a just one?<br />In addition to treating these themes well, Haldeman's writing kept me engaged from beginning to end, and regardless of subject matter this is the ultimate litmus test that any book must pass.  I would definitely recommend Forever War.	2003-04-19
US	53054079	R3UJ8I0NOPX1H2	0679736646	201087508	Ubik	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Another Great PKD Novel	After reading \\"Flow My Tears, The Policeman Said\\" and being blown away by it, I decided to give Philip K. Dick another try.  Could he have written another novel as impressive, I wondered?<br />In short, yes.  \\"Ubik\\" is thoroughly engaging, and even though it shares an underlying theme with \\"Flow My Tears\\" (i.e. shifting reality), the author manages to explore that theme in a totally different way.  Granted, I did not find the characters to be as deep or compelling, and there was a brief slow spot in the middle of the story, but for the most part I was glued to this book as firmly as I was to \\"Tears\\".  In addition, the tone of this story was somewhat lighter, with a lead character who has trouble managing his finances in a world where everything is coin operated, and this may appeal to some more than the dark and gritty style of \\"Tears\\".<br />I would definitely recommend this - it's a great read!	2003-04-11
US	53054079	R2J6K2958NDS5C	0060536977	245555180	Prey CD	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Interesting Subject Matter	While not his best novel, Crichton does a competent job of weaving a tale of suspense around some interesting emerging technologies.  The first part of the novel had me hooked, but by the time he shifts locations, Crichton started to lose me.  There are a couple of reasons for this.<br />First, there is the mystery around what is happening to his wife.  I found this pretty transparent, and so found myself having to wait far too long for it to be revealed.  Second - and this is my own fault - I found the capabilities of the technology in the story pretty tough to swallow.  I work in software, and have used some of the techniques discussed, so it was hard for me to suspend my disbelief sufficiently.<br />Still, I thought the idea behind the story was interesting, and the beginning and end of the novel were pretty engaging.  If you don't mind a little technology mixed in with your fiction, you might like this.  I wouldn't necessarily recommend it, but I wouldn't try to dissuade you from reading it, either.	2003-04-11
US	53054079	R6VKGPB7NYCL2	0345353145	340762456	Sphere	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Suspenseful and Engaging	While not among the very best books I have ever read, Sphere is thoroughly engaging and kept me turning page after page from beginning to end.  I've read many reviews that refer to Michael Crichton's cinematic writing style, and it's certainly on display here.  (Although, as I've been told, the movie based on this novel was not particularly good.)  As the plot unfolded, I was drawn in by the mystery of what is actually happening to the characters, and found myself caught off guard (pleasantly so) a few times as the truth was revealed.  A good read, and one that I would recommend to almost anyone.	2003-04-08
US	53054079	R30CNJU676RCSS	067974066X	970830563	Flow My Tears, the Policeman Said	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wonderfully Engaging Fiction	This book has what so much of science fiction lacks - wonderful characters.  Not wonderful in the sense that they are good people.  Rather, Dick's characters are wonderfully real, with both good and bad aspects, and everything in between.  The world they inhabit is a somewhat surreal alternate/future reality that allows us to see how they deal when the definition of what is real becomes blurred.<br />The only negative comment I might make is that Dick's vision is colored by the mid-70's in which he wrote it, which dates his fictional \\"future\\" a bit.  But this is really a trivial flaw - just think of it as an alternate reality.<br />This book is so wonderfully written that I quickly found myself unable to put it down.  Read it!	2003-04-08
US	53054079	RZZ906ER1G2M0	0553573306	229747971	Brightness Reef (The Uplift Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A good read, but hold off until the trilogy is complete.	This book is the first third of a grand story, and it shows.<br /><br />The first half of Brightness Reef is a highly descriptive introduction to a large cast of characters and the unique society they have established.  Unfortunately, it is not terribly engaging, and would have benefitted from some abbreviation.<br /><br /> In stark contrast, the second half of the book was hard to put down.  Brin really shows off what he can do, and by the end I was ready to pick up the second installment.  I would recommend this book if you're in for the long haul, but you might want to wait for the second and third parts to become available - you'll be dying for more at the end of Brightness Reef!	1997-02-26
US	53054079	R3JIQ9FA77DUTO	0345375440	731950363	Gateway Trip	Books	2	13	14	N	N	Marginal at best - only for die-hard Heechee lovers	This book is an overview of how the discovery of Heechee artifacts affected human history.  If you've already read the Heechee novels, the only part of interest is a single short story; the rest is mere repetition.  If you haven't read the Heechee novels, pass this over and start with Gateway	1997-02-26
