US	53058973	RTI8Q6Y2ZE8RM	B0009W8L6Y	65171223	Lilibet : An Intimate Portrait of Elizabeth II	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Easy reading, but covers little new ground	I am a fairly casual reader of books about the British royalty, not a fanatic one, but I found little new in this book.  Much of the information about Elizabeth's early years seems to come straight from The Little Princesses, while the later years have little to add not heavily covered in media.  If you had never before read a book about Elizabeth, this might be a good starting place, as it's an easy read.  It's quite a sympathetic portrait of her, but not of almost anyone else in her life, especially her husband Phillip, of whom there is barely a civil word said.  The book does focus very much on her, and not her family, which is nice in a way, as there is so much out there about Diana and other family members.  I would have liked to read more about her as a mother, but from what is said here and elsewhere, it wasn't one of her biggest roles.  The photos included are a small and odd bunch, nothing comprehensive at all.  I did perhaps feel I knew Elizabeth's personality a bit more after finishing this read, and it was not BADLY written, but I can't really say it's a necessary or outstanding book.	2005-10-13
US	53058973	R31SBBECQHUGZ3	0789498677	113108394	How People Live	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Fascinating look at many cultures--a few things could make it so much better!	I am VERY familiar with this book, having read it at night to my 11 year old son for months now!  We just finished it.  He loved it--he is a huge geography buff and was fascinated with the glimpes of so many cultures around the world.  We both learned a lot about people and countries we had known nothing or very little about before now.<br /><br />A few small things would have made this a much better book, however!  I would have loved to have a small map on each 2 page spread about a culture, so that we could have seen exactly where the people talked about lived.  I'd have liked very much to have some of the words in other languages spelled out phonetically, as I was often guessing wildly at how things were said.  I also wish the book would have focused a little less on exotic and unusual cultures and a little more on more common cultures---the former was very interesting, but the latter would have given us probably a more realistic world view!<br /><br />My sons are annoyed that I am writing so many complaints!  They felt this was a wonderful book, and so did I---I just think it could have been even better!	2005-10-12
US	53058973	R1GZ4IAHY4EU2A	0452280575	559225608	Entwined Lives: Twins and What They Tell Us About Human Behavior	Books	4	5	5	N	N	So much fascinating information---needs editing to take it all in!	This is a book that is simply cram-packed with a huge hodge podge of information!  Probably it has pretty much anything you would like to know about studies that have been done of twins---many, many ways in which they are alike or different, the types of twins (it's more than just identical or fraternal!), conjoined twins, twins raised apart, famous twins---it goes on and on and on!  I loved reading so many pieces of information about a topic I am very interested in!<br /><br />However, the book could have used much more editing, or maybe a co-author or ghost writer!  It has the feel of someone saying that they need to be sure to put this piece in, and this piece, and oh, got to cram this one in too...sometimes without much of a transition or without necessary background information or follow-up information.  Sometimes it also seemed like if the author was told anything she felt was interesting by the twins she studied, she wanted to quote them exactly on it, even when the quote didn't really make total sense without the whole conversation being there.<br /><br />But these are quibbles---I just liked the information and the tone of the author so much I wish that the book was a bit more cohesive so even more people would get through it and gain the knowledge it holds!  Worth a read for anyone fascinated by twins or genetics!	2005-10-11
US	53058973	R197NCGZ8SQXF3	1564021610	557631752	Where's Willy?	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The first book my daughter is crazy about!	This is the first book my daughter has put on her \\"heavy rotation\\" list!  Always a milestone!  This is such a sweet and simple story of a little girl playing hide and seek with her brother.  He hides inside a paper bag, and she notices that the bag has feet, the bag is walking, the bag is chasing her, and finally the bag falls apart, revealing her brother!  It's the kind of thing that babies find hilarious in real life.  It's also so nice to find a happy sibling relationship.  I adore Rosemary Wells and the Max and Ruby books, but I do sometimes wish they got along a little better---Lily and Willy are such good friends!  The pictures are detailed but simple enough to take in, without a lot of background.  This whole small series is great, but this is my favorite within it!	2005-10-09
US	53058973	RLY7GWNGRIUZJ	0425202437	550838908	A Real Boy: A True Story of Autism, Early Intervention, and Recovery	Books	4	51	55	N	N	Written with honesty, sympathy and love, but it still hurts	Of the books of this type, about \\"recoveries\\" from autism by extreme intervention, diet, medication, etc, this book is probably the best I've read.  The author seems to have much sympathy for others.  I loved it that she made a point to get to know adults on the autistic spectrum and to appreciate their good qualities, and that she seemed to realize how lucky she was to have the resourses she did to help her son.  She also didn't have the air of someone with total confidence in herself, which was endearing to me.  I felt her story and Jonah's was honestly told, and I am glad he is doing as well as he is.<br /><br />With that said, books like this can be very hurtful to read.  I have a son on the spectrum.  He was diagnosed at an early age with classic autism.  Even if I had known about all the interventions talked about here, having the funds or the wherewithall to make them happen would have been about as likely as me sprouting wings and flying to the moon.  We couldn't have paid for even one of the experts that Jonah saw.  Our school district would have laughed for days at a plan like the one Jonah's agreed to.  We were in no way able to move to a different district.  If I had read this book when my son was young, I would have cried for hours, because I couldn't help him as the author did.<br /><br />However, my son today no longer even meets the criteria for Aspergers Syndrome, to say nothing of autism.  He still has unusual traits, but he is in a gifted program at school and would not be seen by almost anyone as having autism.  I didn't do much to acheive this beyond what our poor school district offered, and what a mother's love does on its own.  No special diets, no ABA, a few free social skills groups when I could....<br /><br />Books like this sometimes make you feel you should plan very carefully before having a child with autism!! If only you could!  You should make sure you live in a rich school district and have a great deal of money yourself, you must make sure your child is an only child so you can give them all your attention, you must believe wholeheartedly in special diets, you must be an intellectual...if not, perhaps you should think twice before having that autistic child!  Oh, that's right---YOU CAN'T!  So until all parents can do what this parent did, you might want to think twice about reading this book.  There is nothing wrong with what Christina Adams did, there is much right with it.  But it's not the only route to recovery.must make sure your child is an only child so you can give them all your attention, you must believe wholeheartedly in special diets, you must be an intellectual...if not, perhaps you should think twice before having that autistic child!  Oh, that's right---YOU CAN'T!  So until all parents can do what this parent did, you might want to think twice about reading this book.  There is nothing wrong with what Christina Adams did, there is much right with it.  But it's not the only route to recovery.	2005-10-05
US	53058973	R356N187ZG5NNM	1858940729	836134449	Story of Time	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Fascinating content and art, a big overwhelming!	I wish I had more time to read and read this book!  It is huge, and contains a giant mish-mash of material---many, many pieces of artwork with a connection to time, many essays about the role of time in various cultures, lots of photos of timepieces through the ages---even all sorts of words from many languages for days of the weeks and months, running along the page bottoms!  I read the book not being aware it was really a catalog for an exhibition, and knowing that now, it makes more sense, as I did start to wonder when reading it why there was such a huge emphasis on physical objects representing or measuring time.  Time itself is such an abstract concept that it seemed odd to represent it so visually, but it's very interesting, and some of the artwork was amazing.  I most loved looking at a series of pictures of one couple in front of their Christmas tree taken over 45 years---seeing how they aged was really compelling.  I do think I would have liked a little more of an organized feel to this book.  It seemed like I was walking randomly around a museum---not a bad feeling, but a little overwhelming!  I'd also have liked a little more about the scientific side of time rather than just the cultural, as the title implies this is a comprehensize work.  However, certainly a fascinating work and one I would love to just look over for days and days!	2005-10-04
US	53058973	R9IWA4VFD7OXO	1401352243	609618343	Breakfast with Tiffany: An Uncle's Memoir	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A wonderfully caring uncle and a keeps-you-reading book	Every troubled teen should have an uncle like Uncle Eddy, who cares enough to change his life in extreme ways to take in his 13 year old troubled niece.  I hope others reading this book will consider doing something similar to what he did, as oftentimes the only way to really change the course of a life is to remove the teen from the environment that is causing the problems.<br /><br />I kept reading and reading, although there was something about the writing that was not quite my favorite style.  I hate to even say that, as I so admired the author and his honestly and extreme hard work for his niece.  The chapters seemed to follow a formula---set up an emotional scene, flash back to what caused it, then flash back further to an event in Eddy's life.  Not a bad formula, and skilled writing, but I think the next work by this author will be even better, as he gets more confidence in his writing skills and loosens up a little.  Perhaps his OCD shows through a little in his writing---and I can relate!<br /><br />I am very hopefully for Tiffany, and I bet we will be hearing more from her.  I love the fact this isn't presented as a miracle, and right down to the last sentence we see the challenges ahead.<br /><br />Another element I really liked was the view of a strong extended family, even with their troubles.  At times it gets so wearing to hear about awful parents.  Eddy's parents sound like loving, caring people (although not perfect, of course!) and the scene where Eddy's father comforts him in crisis really made me cry.<br /><br />Thanks for the book!	2005-10-02
US	53058973	R1H2N1MGNCQUJ1	0738206660	293228867	The Boy Who Loved Windows: Opening The Heart And Mind Of A Child Threatened With Autism	Books	3	40	46	N	N	How you feel depends on why you are reading this...	If you like dramatic stories about autism \\"cures\\" or tales about extremely devoted parents doing everything possible to help their troubled children, then this is a book for you.  It's very well written and a real page-turner, a classic of this genre.  Before I had children, it would have been right up there with my favorite books.  I loved this kind of book!<br /><br />Then came my oldest son, who is on the autistic spectrum.  After 11 years of wonderful life with him, I have very different feelings about such books, and I will go out on a limb and say I have a right to.  Life with children with autism or PDD or Aspergers is hard but rewarding, tough but at times extremely wonderful.  But it's not a dramatic story.  It's not something where through your own slavish devotion you can \\"fix\\" your child.<br /><br />I am not saying that the author is not telling the truth.  I am sure she IS telling what happened to her.  I could write a book too, about having a son that was diagnosed with classic autism at 2, and now at 11 doesn't even completely met the diagnostic criteria for Aspergers.  But it wouldn't be as dramatic as this one, as I did nothing terribly dramatic to bring this about.  My feeling is autism is not an iron-clad scientific diagnosis.  As children grow, they change, and certainly having devoted parents and professionals is a great thing for them, but sometimes the early diagnosis has to be revisited, and no-one can say exactly why.  I DO know that other children in a family also need time, and an extreme regiment like the one shown here, which at times involved not even leaving the house and parents spending extreme amounts of time with one child, can leave out the other children no matter how hard you try to not make this so.<br /><br />I don't want to put down the author or her family.  I admire anyone for loving their children so much.  But there are so many of us other families out there, living day by day with our kids.  I can no longer simply enjoy a book like this, as I once certainly would, without thinking of its impact on readers or, someday, on the adults on the autistic spectrum who will read it.enjoy a book like this, as I once certainly would, without thinking of its impact on readers or, someday, on the adults on the autistic spectrum who will read it.	2005-10-02
US	53058973	RLYWHHJP44PNJ	1400080452	754820255	1: Encyclopedia of an Ordinary Life	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The perfect format for this kind of memoir and humor!	While some might find the idea of writing about one's life in encyclopedia form odd or gimmicky, I think it was a stroke of genius for this author!  The kind of thoughts and ideas she writes about are perfectly fitted for short entries in list or timeline form.  I loved her topics---this is perhaps because I think she thinks a lot like me, and she is just the same age as me, so the cultural references work well for me.  I like her kind of honesty about her thoughts!  Just a random sampling of my favorites---her childhood memories in timeline form, Jacket Bio---I also love reading about and seeing the author on the jacket, more so with books I really like---, Life as a Preset Menu---I spent a while deciding which life I'd pick--, Lows (of her life)...just a few I especially liked!  The only topic I found a bit overdone was co-incidences, and I think the author herself had noticed this!  Those are a little like dreams, not as interesting to others as they are to you (and I am also an epic dreamer, and WISH others liked hearing them!)<br /><br />Thanks for this great book!  I plan on looking up all the others by the author and seeking them out!	2005-09-25
US	53058973	R19TTOP78BX5LF	0385256477	919252868	Hold on McGinty Hartry	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A beautiful picture book about many kinds of love	This is one of the most beautifully illustrated childrens' books I've read in a while.  The pictures of the prairie, the mountains, the sea, the Northern Lights---all done with such realistic but somehow also dreamlike qualities.  The story is about love---a fisherman's love of Canada, Newfoundland, his grand-daughter, fish and most of all his boat, and how he brings himself to move away from the home he loves, but on his own terms.  Absolutely a winner!	2005-09-23
US	53058973	RE75P8D92XGSE	1580050824	953050975	Mother Shock: Loving Every (Other) Minute of It	Books	4	25	27	N	N	Skilled writing, honest thoughts, slightly flawed structure and theme	I very much enjoyed my reading of Mother Shock.  The author reported honestly on many feelings I think many mothers have---how it seems incredible how routine childbirth is to the hospital personnel, how sometimes once the babies start talking and walking you wonder how you ever thought it was hard when they couldn't yet, how great it feels the first time you realize that you are actually being understood by your child--and much more.<br /><br />I did feel that the structure of the book could have been a bit better.  It has the feel of so many books I've read lately---like it started as a collection of essays and was mushed together into a book.  Baby Emily jumps in age back and forth, events don't occur in sequence, and I always think with just a touch of editing (which the author does for a living) this would feel more like a complete book and less like a collection of columns.<br /><br />Also, although this is really a compliment and not a complaint, I don't think the book really was as much about mother shock as just about mothering in general, well-written mothering!  I read it expecting much more about how hard the early years with a baby were, and found instead a mother that has pretty typical bad and good days and hours, but overall seems to be quite into the whole mothering scene---which was nice!<br /><br />I look forward to more writing from this author---perhaps a book about how she decided to give up on being a concert pianist?	2005-09-20
US	53058973	R2XVDIY5CR90SM	1565123166	661283214	If You Lived Here, I'd Know Your Name: News from Small-Town Alaska	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Interesting taste of small town Alaska -- but a bit rambling	I have always been drawn to tales of life in Alaska, and was eager to read this book.  I enjoyed it a good deal---it was a nice way to feel like I was spending some time among friends and neighbors in Haines.  The author is talented and obviously has a deep love for her town and state.<br /><br />However, I felt the book was a bit rambling.  It was loosely structured around various obituaries the author had written, which for each chapter brought up a different theme.  This led to a back and forth sort of narrative---we find out here and there bits and pieces of the author's life and that of the town, but I never felt I really found out enough about either one.  I would have loved more details---how big were the schools?  What was the layout of the town?  What was it like when she first moved there?  How were things changed when cruise ships started to stop there?  Sometimes episodic writing works, and sometimes it doesn't.  It sort of half works here---you keep reading, but somehow I kept feeling like I was missing parts of the story.  The little clips from the newspaper at the end of each chapter are TOTALLY unconnected to the rest of the book most of the time, and they feel like reading social news from a paper where you know no-one---which essentially they are.<br /><br />Also, centering the book on deaths left me anyway feeling like life in Haines was extremely dangerous.  People seemed to be dying in an untimely way constantly.  I am sure the deaths talked about happened over a number of years, but since this was rarely spelled out, you got the feeling it might not be the best place to live if you wanted to live to a ripe old age.<br /><br />Overall, worth a read---enjoyable, solid, non-flashy writing about a place I'd like to visit!	2005-09-10
US	53058973	RT0VPVK6YDK95	0811846164	389197167	Mommy Loves	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A truly wonderful book about animals and people's Mommy Love!	I adore this book!  And luckily my daughter does too---that isn't always the case with books I adore!  It's very simply written and drawn---basically just all sorts of animals and their babies, with each page saying how the Mommy loves the babies---\\"Mommy Cat Loves Her Kittens\\" and so on.  The paintings are so gentle and simple, and they really somehow show so much love, it almost makes you cry!  The book ends with saying that most of all, my mommy loves me, and that's the perfect time always for a hug.  It's great to find a book that's simple enough for young babies but also so well done.  Highly recommended!	2005-09-07
US	53058973	R3Q1WG3GQ6BPAF	0385511868	174256474	The Friend Who Got Away: Twenty Women's True Life Tales of Friendships that Blew Up, Burned Out or Faded Away	Books	3	40	46	N	N	Written by and for those who form their own inner circle	I wonder often if the authors of books like these realize at all how few people really live the lives they are writing about.  By this I mean lives of art show openings, long intellectual conversations, shopping at small trendy boutiques for interesting clothes, traveling the world and having moments of revelations while watching exotic sunsets...I am not saying all these times are literally included here, but you get the picture!  Most of the essays here seem much more written to show off the authors' Writer's Workshop prose than to really talk about lost friendships.  I was eager to read this book as it's a big issue in many women's lives---friendship is such a vital part of our lives and lost friendships can be much like divorces, yet it's not often written about.  A few of the essays did not disappoint, most notably the one by Ann Hood.  I had thought of her so often since reading in the paper about the tragic loss of her daughter, and her lost friendship in the aftermath of that tragedy is so affecting to read about.  A few other essays were wonderful, mainly the ones written about childhood friendships, such as the one by Nicole Keeter.  But almost all the rest were nothing that I could relate to at all.  I think the editors could have looked for a little more divesity---do no blue collar women lose friends?  Do very few women with children lose friends?  Do those in rural areas lose friends?  Do those who, heaven forbid, write with styles not honed in writers workshops lose friends?<br /><br />Overall, a good idea marred by the choices of essays and authors.	2005-09-04
US	53058973	R144UC09446T4T	0131872788	853193312	A Brief Tour of Human Consciousness: From Impostor Poodles to Purple Numbers	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Brief indeed---like a terrific appetizer!	I realized after reading the beginning of this book that I had already read the author's much longer work---Phantoms in the Brain---and thought it was among the best scientific books I've ever read.  This book is VERY brief---it fools you as about half way through the pages it's over, and the rest is notes (interesting notes) and a glossery---but it's also wonderful!  It presents many, many cases of fascinating things that can happen with the human brain and consciousness---thinking people are imposters, feeling like you are dead and being able to see colors when you see numbers.  I have read before about synesthesia, where senses are mixed up, but I was like many people---quite skeptical that it actually existed.  The author managed to make me a believer by showing how tests could actually prove it does happen!<br /><br />The writing tone here is terrific---funny without being flip, highly intelligent without being hard to understand.  You will want to rush out and get the main course---Phantoms in the Brain!	2005-09-02
US	53058973	R1914JS6KF8GTC	037550821X	682156954	Hold On to Your Kids: Why Parents Need to Matter More Than Peers	Books	4	207	223	N	N	A radically different parenting book, but not totally convincing	I must say this book does stand on in that it presents a radically different view of parenting than most books I've read.  It holds that the most important thing for kids is a very strong relationship with their parents, and that almost all of the woes of today's kids are caused by them being peer oriented instead of parent oriented.  The authors make a very strong case for this being so.  I was convinced by the time this part of the book was over.  However, as with many books of this type, the section where we are told what to do about this problem is weaker.  Most of the ideas would work best with a very young child that has not yet become peer oriented.  If you already have a child who is rebellious and addicted to being with peers, I don't think that speaking to them kindly and looking them in the eyes is going to do much.  The author gave an example with his own children of taking them away on a week's vacation with just the child and the parent.  That sounds good, but I don't think his children had the severe problems of the other examples we are given.<br /><br />The book also has the perspective of parents that are caring, kind, loving and have their childrens' best interests at heart.  I know parents who read parenting books are more likely to fit this perspective, but I kept thinking that not all parents are that completely wonderful.  I think many a child has been saved from a childhood that would otherwise be hellish BY their friends.  The author also feels children's friendships are not really true friendships, that they are not mature enough to have true friendships.  I respect their courage to say that peer relationships are not as important as we are always led to believe.  But I do think that childhood friendships can be true ones.  I know I still am very, very close with at least 3 of my friends from young childhood, and I can say looking back that our friendship was true from the start.<br /><br />I don't mean to overly dispute the message in this book.  I think it's an extremely well written and brave book, and I will be influenced by the ideas presented here very much.  I just think it's like most ideas taken to the extreme---they fall apart a bit when this is the case.  But I do want to thank the authors for presenting this view of parenting.  It is going to play a part in my decision whether or not to homeschool my oldest child.<br /><br />Definately worth a read!this book.  I think it's an extremely well written and brave book, and I will be influenced by the ideas presented here very much.  I just think it's like most ideas taken to the extreme---they fall apart a bit when this is the case.  But I do want to thank the authors for presenting this view of parenting.  It is going to play a part in my decision whether or not to homeschool my oldest child.   <br /> <br />Definately worth a read!	2005-09-01
US	53058973	R32JP11WGS8DOR	1892309807	465750070	Baby Einstein: Animal Discovery Cards : Beautiful Nature Photographs and Animal Facts to Delight Your Baby	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Much better than I anticipated---truly lovely!	I bought these cards sort of on impulse, as my sons are very into trading cards right now, and my 1 year old daughter is constantly trying to get at their cards, so I thought she might like some cards of her own!  I am not really too into early flash cards or the like, but I thought she'd enjoy having them to play with.  Well, I was quite pleasantly surprised!  The cards are VERY well done!  First of all, they are nice heavy cardstock.  I don't see them being ripped or bitten up any time soon.  Next, the pictures are so beautiful.  Animals are shown in their natural habitat, rather than against stark white backgrounds like some cards.  They are labeled on the picture side with their name, if you have a young one inclined to start reading soon.  The back has an assortment of facts.  I like it that the facts seem aimed at giving the parent background to talk about the animal, rather than being exactly what you should say to your baby!  Another thing I like is that usually the back tells the exact type of animal you are seeing, for example, the bird shown is further labeled as a cardinal.  There are lots of cards for your money, and they are nice and big.  I think I'll buy the rest of the cards in this series!  I haven't liked everything Baby Einstein I have seen, but these are really a great item!	2005-09-01
US	53058973	R8EO4RZBR3QY6	0143034774	387876446	Waiting for Birdy: A Year of Frantic Tedium, Neurotic Angst, and the Wild Magic of Growing a Family	Books	5	2	2	N	N	I was prepared to dislike this book--and loved it instead!	I started reading this book with a bad attitude.  I usually don't like books that were once columns, as they often seem disjointed and slapped together.  I also thought that Ben, the author's son, was just too good to be true---so unbelievably bright and cute and with another hilarious thing to say every second.  However, I was totally won over by the end of the book.  I think Ben probably IS one of the cutest, brightest kids ever, and this probably comes from his parents---his mother is one of the funniest and most insightful writers I've encountered in a while!  I loved so many of her points---how funny it is what the What to Expect people call a special food treat---when a real special food treat would be cookie dough and half and half, how when you take your child to preschool for the first time, it's impossible not to feel like an imposter playing parent, how it feels during the early days of having a second child, when you are sure that they have some horrible health problem and you are not rational enough to realize you are being irrational, how the 3 hour diabetes test can seem at first like a relaxing break in routine...so many things I've thought or done myself!  I laughed out loud quite a lot when reading this, and that doesn't often happen to me.  I hope there are more books coming from Catherine Newman.	2005-08-28
US	53058973	R2WEEK7Y7UVL1D	0609609912	529996899	Leaving the Saints: How I Lost the Mormons and Found My Faith	Books	3	18	28	N	N	Very good writing, but the book's purpose is my question	I didn't realize when I started reading this book that the author also wrote Expecting Adam, which I had also read.  Both books are very well written, but both are in many ways internal monologues---about moments of revelations and visions and mystical happenings of the author---something that to me anyway doesn't make for fascinating writing, even written as well as this book is.  My big question here is exactly what this book is written to do.  I know next to nothing about Latter Day Saints, and so I can't really judge the parts of the books that are about the oddities of the founders of this faith or its current leaders.  Very little of this book is about the author's found faith.  Much of it is about one meeting with her father, which seems to have been her attempt to make him admit to his abuse of her.  It was not a successful meeting.  Is this book to tell the world about the abuse?  I have no reason to doubt it happened, but it sounds like her family does, and it seems this book is written to sort of spite them, although the author very much denies this and does a good job in showing her continued love for her brothers and sisters even though it doesn't sound like they have been that nice to her.  I wasn't really uplifted by this reading, and I finished reading it with a couple messages---the everyday people of the Mormon faith sound very nice and kind, and the leaders sound like they have a lot to hide, and the author's mother and father were seriously messed up people.  The book is not really about its stated purpose---leaving the Mormons and finding faith, I don't think.<br /><br />I wish Beck would write a book about raising Adam, one that addresses the everyday care and love of a child with Down Syndrome.  I know several parents raising children with Down Syndrome, and they did not have the mystical style pregnancy and birth Beck did, but they could very much use her talented writing to tell of the down to earth joys and sorrow of raising their children.  I hope she will consider writing such a book.ren.  I hope she will consider writing such a book.	2005-08-27
US	53058973	R1I9RBM9K70E6E	0425200426	163911464	A Bitter Brew: Faith, Power, and Poison in a Small New England Town	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Interesting because of the topic, not the writing	I was eager to read this book, as I have spent a lot of time in Aroostook County in Maine, and I am also familiar with small church politics and how heated they can become.  I was a bit disappointed with the book, however.  It suffered from a real lack of cohesiveness.  It seems more like a jumbled together collection of interviews and facts than a organized book.  I am not even sure, having finished it, what the author believes about the case.  I think part of the problem is that the townspeople were not too keen on having this book written, and so the author had to rely on those who would talk, and so much space is given to what they have to say, whether it's really important or not.  There seems to be a lot of filler here also---whole chapters about totally different cases, detailed descriptions of people who are minor players, and even in one case a recipe.  I never really got a feel for what the town was like, the church was like, or even the major suspects were like, and I have the advantage of knowing the general area quite well.  I think there is a book to be written about this case, probably several books, but this one is just not the one.  It's not terrible---it kept me reading until the end, but that was partly just looking for new tidbits of information.  I can't really recommend it.	2005-08-25
US	53058973	RV3TO24CYMRHS	0738209945	25333273	Confessions of a Slacker Mom	Books	3	61	68	N	N	It's not the message that annoys---it's the tone!	I agree with much the author has to say here---we DO get our kids too many toys, it WON'T kill them to have working parents or to not always be the center of our attention.  However, the tone here is just plain grating!  The author seems to feel that no-one in the world outside her extended family has ever really gotten parenting right---everyone else in the world is a hovering, overinvolved child-centered fool.  I really did search for a reference to other people she might feel have done an okay job---in vain.  One can't help but being a bit catty and saying to oneself \\"her kids are pretty darn young, I would really rather take advice from someone with just a TAD more experience and older kids, as it's pretty easy to put the rules in place that she has with the 6 and under crowd\\"  I also thought about how despite her often talking about her childhood on the ranch, she mentions sort of in passing how various members of her family became State Governer, and others were lawyers.  I wonder if she would feel the same about not giving her kids too much if she had grown up truly not having enough---not enough food, no toys because none could be afforded...etc.<br /><br />But all this is mainly fueled by my annoyed feelings at the \\"better than you\\" tone of this book.  I think the author has valid points, and I am sure she's a good mother.  I just think she should have waited just a little longer into her parenting career to write this, and perhaps acknoledged that others in the world may have had the same ideas she did!	2005-08-22
US	53058973	R2TOHDH9VDVPU8	0743250605	910477078	The Know-It-All: One Man's Humble Quest to Become the Smartest Person in the World	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Fact collection/memoir/humor combo---ALL GREAT!	I truly loved every minute of reading this book!  It's an amazing combo---one I bet has never been done before.  It combines facts from the author's reading of the encyclopedia, memories and current times from his life and general funny writing all into one great package.  I love fact collections, but do have to admit they get a bit dry in book form.  This book tells us all sorts of assorted info from A-Z, but relates it all in to the author's life---his wacky extended family, his quest to become a father, his visits to various shrines of smartness such as Mensa or college debating teams---in a wonderful way.  It's great to read about a functional and close extended family, and I loved following the couple's parenthood quest.  I very much hope that Jacobs writes a  book about being a father!<br /><br />Just a fun interconnection between two entries in this book--- Nikola Telsa and the Tunguska Event---some people think Telsa CAUSED the Tunguska event with his experiments---it's very likely not the case, but it's an example of how facts can interact.  I loved the way Jacobs tied together such unrelated facts.  I remembering reading the Dr. Seuss Dictionary as a kid and trying to somehow form a narrative based on all the entries---this book does it much better!	2005-08-20
US	53058973	R9E0WJ8YPAUOI	1573223077	848433369	Everything Bad Is Good for You: How Today's Popular Culture Is Actually Making Us Smarter	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Ideas that make you question the conventional wisdom!	This book put words to some thoughts I'd had twirling around in my head for a while!  Let me preface the rest by saying I am an EXTREMELY avid reader, and my fondest dream is that my 3 children will also be avid readers.  I don't think there is much more important in life!  HOWEVER, I loved the passage in this book where the author pretended that books were the newest thing and video games had always been around, and using this perspective, talked about how video games were superior---how books are so solitary, how they use fewer senses, how they encourage passive thinking...very funny stuff!  I really think many people who are so down on video games have never played them.  An example here---my younger son was a bit of a slow starting with reading in first grade.  We got a video game called Paper Mario, which required a great deal of reading to get through.  I made myself a bit unavailable while he was playing it---and voila!  He became a wonderful reader!  In other games, he has had to figure out elaborate patterns of light reflection, had to plan ahead and calculate necessary supplies when going on missions, had to work together with his brother to win races...many, many useful skills.  To say nothing of hours of fun!  I have no doubt video games have increased his thinking skills.  I really believe that the new generation is brighter than the one before in part because of the highly level of stimulation they get from an early age, and PART of this stimulation is things we would consider \\"bad\\"---TV, video games, noisy push button toys...and so on.  This book spells out in a scholary and interesting way this hypothosis.  My son's teacher actually recommended this book to me after I admitted how much he loves video games---I'm glad I had a teacher who was not into the knee-jerk negative response to this admission!	2005-08-15
US	53058973	R15Z6EAAZ9P2RC	0060761393	493597683	Mr. China: A Memoir	Books	4	1	6	N	N	I wish Clissold had put his skills into writing a different book!	I love reading anything about China, and was eager to read this book.  In some ways, it didn't disappoint---the writing was skilled, and it was wonderful to read about recent China, a period of time not as much written about as the Cultural Revolution or the Great Leap Forward.  However, maybe it's just me, but I kept wishing Clissold would write more about the \\"side\\" topics and less about his business ventures!  I am sure there are many people who love to read about the ins and outs of business investment, and this is the book for them.  But I loved reading the parts about the everyday people, foods, customs, scenery, etc---I started glazing over at yet again tale of frustrating business transactions.  Also, at times there were huge leaps in the story not much explained---all of a sudden, the author is a student for two years at Beijing University---how did he get in?  What is he studying?  How is this financed?  I think a whole book could be written about this experience, and I'd like to read it!  The author blurb also tells us he has a wife and 4 children that live in Beijing.  I would love to hear more about that---where do the kids go to school?  Do they speak Chinese?  What is life like for them?  I also think the author assumed readers would have more understanding of the ins and outs of business than I did anyway.  From my perspective, it seemed like they just went in and gave tons of money to various factories.  How did they make money from doing this?  What were the terms of these loans, or did they give the money to buy part of the factory?  When do they start making money off this?<br /><br />From all the question marks in this review, you can see this book left me intrigued, but also a bit frustrated.  Probably a sign of good writing!  Write another book, Tim Clissold!	2005-08-13
US	53058973	R38T91PXL470LY	1400052564	88391814	The Experts' Guide to 100 Things Everyone Should Know How to Do	Books	3	41	49	N	N	The whole is less than the sum of the parts	This book is an example of a good idea that didn't quite make it.  The idea is having many experts in their fields teach how to do many things, and to arrange all this advice in a book.  However, in doing so, a book is created for which there is not much use!  A book like this would normally have two uses---one would be something to read through for fun, and the other would be to use as a reference.  I tried reading through this for fun, and it just wasn't fun.  The subjects were not one that were interesting just to read about, if you weren't planning on doing them----some examples are tying a tie, washing a car, buying a diamond, changing your oil---good topics, but not really fun to read about!  On the other hand, it would be a rare occasion you would be able to use this book to actually look something up when the need arises---for example, how often do we look in a book to learn to swim, or drive a stick shift, or tell a joke, or wash a car?  Those are things you usually learn along way from others, and even if you were in need of learning how to do them, I don't think you'd usually look in a book to find out how.  And it would be hit or miss if the topic you needed was covered here---100 may seem like a lot of topics, but how many millions more would you NOT find here?  That said, each individual topic seems well done, and I appreciate the fact that each is done by someone who really knows what they are talking about.  I wish I could give this book a better review, but I really can't recommend spending your money on something that would get so little actual use.	2005-08-11
US	53058973	R6S4F9ELS4ZO1	031249047X	793155183	Happy Baby Colors	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Another winner by Priddy Books	Priddy books is rapidly becoming my favorite source for books for my near 1 year old!  Their board books, although not marketed to be as \\"in\\" as things like Baby Einstein, seem to me to be the best done ones out there.  This book is no exception.  My little one is fascinated with other babies right now, a stage many babies go through.  This book has great, clear pictures of babies to illustrate colors---a pink blanket being held, a red snowsuit, a green sweater---and it also has facing pages with 3 or 4 other objects of that color, with an emphasis on natural objects like foods.  I liked it that many varients of the colors are shown, for example, for purple, we are shown an eggplant, a beet and grapes, to show that all purples are not the same!  The book is very solid and a good size to hold.  I highly recommend it!	2005-08-11
US	53058973	R2ZKPWD5QOBVNN	0060598786	56313772	Because I Said So: 33 Mothers Write About Children, Sex, Men, Aging, Faith, Race, and Themselves	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Motherhood thoughtfully written about	I read this book just after reading Mothers Who Think, an earlier book of mothering essays put together by the same people.  Both books were very well done, full of essays where mothering is thought about seriously by many different mothers with many different views.  However, this book focused a bit more on mothers of older children, including a lot of teenagers and preteens.  There were some wonderful essays here---for me, the standout one was by the mother of a child with autism.  It was one of the most realistic yet inspiring pieces of writing I've ever read about parenting such a child.  The piece about the American Girl craze was also very well done.  It's interesting to read how many parents re-evaluate their parenting views and perspectives when faced with children reaching older years and getting more of their own personalities!  However, I found that this was not quite as strong a book as Mothers Who Think.  More of the essays were less rooted in the actual act of being a mother and were more philosophical, which is fine, but not really what I was looking for--for example, the essay on traveling to Egypt to see a certain piece of art in a museum there, as a way of dealing with pregnancy loss grief.  Another essay was more of a literature survey of child care literature, again, well done but not really based in day to day mothering.  One of the most jarring essays for me was the one about Marta, the nanny for the author's children.  It was very honestly written, but I found myself feeling so sad for the nanny, as the mother seems resentful that her daugther loves the nanny so, and that the nanny sides with the daughter in a spat between mother and daugther.  If you hire someone to take care of your children, you WANT them to love your children, don't you?  Overall, this book is certainly worth a read--I hope more books like this are written---books that take mothering seriously.	2005-08-10
US	53058973	R1YM90W7ID7UDK	0140291784	583158805	The Mask of Motherhood: How Becoming a Mother Changes Our Lives and Why We Never Talk About It	Books	3	13	22	N	N	There is truth here, but it's an idea taken too far	I did find much that I could relate to in this book.  It's very true that at some times we don't tell others some of the truths of being a mother, especially when it comes to childbirth and breastfeeding.  I was shocked when my first pregnancy and my life was seriously endangered by pre-eclampsia, and even more shocked to learn it ran heavily in my family, with many other cases and even one death related to it.  No-one ever told me.  I was blindsided by a 3rd baby who would not nurse no matter what I did, despite the fact I was experienced at nursing, having nursed the first two! I then found out it DOES happen, and more than you would think.  So I did see the point of this book.  However, I think the author took her ideas too far.  I don't think it's any kind of cover-up that keeps these things from being shared.  Rather, we really don't remember much sometimes about childbirth at times---nature arranges that!  We also often edit our memories to remember the good times, and not the bad.  Also, I think there is much more positive out there than this book seems to think.  The first 3 months ARE hard, but most mothers I know also found much joy.  I know a lot of other mothers, and talk with them very honestly (I think!) and overall most love being mothers.  I think this book is useful in that it might open up some to share or spur on some memories to be undusted, but this writing is far too dry, too lacking in a personal touch and too depressing to be a breakthrough book!	2005-08-04
US	53058973	R1TEF712A59TNG	0794502288	490941087	Trucks (Usborne Touchy Feely)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Absolutely wonderful touch and feel book!	I can't say enough about the touchy feely book!  It's hands down my daughter's favorite book right now.  The pages are VERY thick, making it possible for the touchable parts of the page to be very thick also---they really feel like something---the load of sand feels sandy, the sheep feel fleecey, etc!  The greatest part is that each page has MULTIPLE places to touch, and some are little and fun to find---like a dog with a furry coat next to the touchable truck, or a shiny headlight on a truck.  The picture are clear and easy for a baby to enjoy, but there are also a few small details on each page for them to notice, like a little worm in the dirt.  We have read this book over and over and over, and it's still in great shape---a good investment!	2005-08-01
US	53058973	R1EU0DN4EZ1ZQI	0671774689	114558117	Mothers Who Think: Tales Of Real-life Parenthood	Books	5	18	18	N	N	The only thing wrong with this book is its title!	I had heard about this book for years before I read it.  What held me back was the title---I pictured this being a book about not just mothers who think, but mothers who think MORE THAN REGULAR MOTHERS---you know the kind of book.  One with essays by mothers who think they are more devoted, more in tune, more able to work and care for their kids at one time..etc.  That wasn't what this was at all.  It is a collection of extremely well done essays about all aspects of parenting.  In my opinion, the best here is On Not Having a Daughter, by Jayne Anne Phillips---about a child not born--I'll remember this writing always.  You'll Get Used to It is another great one, about the tough seperation from your child and how you someday do miss how hard it is for them to leave!  The Line is White and It is Narrow tells of a boy on the autistic spectrum with a love for soccer, and how his mother helps him make his dreams come true.  I could go on and on...lots of terrific writing here.  The weakest pieces in my opinion are the few short humor pieces about everything going wrong during childbirth---they are a little too slapstick for me, but they aren't that bad!  Highly recommended collection about a topic that doesn't really get that much good writing---the thoughts and ideas of mothering.	2005-08-01
US	53058973	R4R35NJ33SUUU	0899193498	209154692	The Little Red Hen (Paul Galdone Classics)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	As always with Galdone, a wonderful, faithful retelling	You can never go far wrong with fairy tales and Paul Galdone!  We have almost all his books, and they are the versions I almost always have read my sons.  As in this version, he tells the story clearly, with interesting and detailed but not cluttered pictures.  There is something about this particular story my sons have always loved.  Perhaps it's because it's a pretty clear-cut ending---the ones who would not help don't get to share the treat, instead of the ending of many more modern tales where all learn their lesson and get included at the end!  Kids often like things to be \\"fair but firm\\"!  They also like the details of the cooking included here.  Have a look at all of Galdone's books if you are interested in building up a fairy tale collection.	2005-07-29
US	53058973	R17UQR5QPZ3RSC	0763619507	909641603	Yummy Yucky (Leslie Patricelli board books)	Books	3	11	28	N	N	A funny book, but funny more for parents than kids	This is another example of something I see so much in board books and books for babies---a book that is funny for parents, so they buy it, but not really aimed at toddlers or babies!  The book has paired pages talking about what is yummy and what is yucky---for example, spaghetti is yummy, worms are yucky.  The pictures are cartoon like, with a big headed baby eating the spaghetti happily and the worms with disgust.  The pictures have different colored backgroudn with texturing color, which it think distracts from the main parts of the picture.  The cartoons are cute, but not really clear enough for a baby to understand---the picture of chocolate sauce could be almost anything poured from a bottle, the fish sticks could be french fries or yellow crayons or even bananas!  Also, call me old fashioned, but I really don't think you need to teach a baby a word like boogers.  The times I've read this to my daughter, I skipped that page.  My older children laughed at this book a lot, and it really is funny for them, but why make it a board book?  Board books are for babies, and this is NOT a baby's book---in fact, it might be dangerous for a baby, as showing babies eating things like fish food or mud or hot sauce, even when saying they are yucky, can give babies some ideas you would rather they not have!	2005-07-26
US	53058973	R1NFCPAR6YT78P	0789442876	988754250	Copycat!: Faces	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The mirror is terrific, but why are the kids dressed up?	My daughter adores the mirror in this book!  Unlike most mirrors in books, it's big and clear---you can actually see yourself well in it.  She held the book well for a long time to look at it, which is a good skill to learn (she is 11 months).  The theme of the book is feelings, and the children shown are demonstrating different feelings, like anger and silliness and being surprised.  The only quibble I have is that the children are all dressed up, like as a jester or Little Miss Muffet or a pirate ( I THINK, the girl dressed on that page is hard to figure out!) and I think this just distracts from showing the feelings on their faces.  So many baby books show dressed up babies, and I have yet to find a baby that really is interested in or notices the costumes---they want to look at baby faces, not clothes!  I think the dressing up is for the parents, to make them say \\"wow, how cute!\\" and buy the book!	2005-07-26
US	53058973	R1LTFCGXL5N2LN	1573223042	528143446	Perfect Madness: Motherhood in the Age of Anxiety	Books	3	10	12	N	N	I agree the problem is there---but this is not the book I wished for	I looked forward to reading this book since I first heard of its existence.  There certainly does exist a perfect madness today in motherhood---in this age of too much homework, too expensive housing, and too little freedom to just let kids be kids.  This book brought up many important issues, and placed much of the blame on the government's lack of real support for families---a position I do agree with.<br /><br />However, I felt the book could have been more powerful in several ways.  The author interviewed many, many women in writing this book, but I don't feel their voices coming through much.  There are quotes here and there, but overall this feels more like reading a rather dry analysis of how public policy and the media and so on have affected how mothers feel about themselves than it does like reading about real mothering.  Some of the examples of the \\"mess\\" we are in are rather extreme, like Andrea Yates.  And as the author does acknowledge, the families most talked about are upper middle class career oriented ones, which is probably in reality a minority of the families out there.<br /><br />The author's suggestions for fixing this mess we are in are mostly aimed at changing public policy and public thought, and at making women see this is part of a larger problem than just the choices they themselves have made.  This is very important thinking.  However, I do think we DO have personal choices that have contributed to the mess.  We truly can choose to opt out of the high pressure track.  We can choose to live in less than prime cities, send our children to less high pressure schools, fiercely protect family time together even if it means not joining many activities, and accept that our children might not go to the best colleges, but might instead be like we ourselves have chosen to be---fairly happy underachievers.  But few do make that choice---I'd love to read about the ones that have, but they are probably not ambitious enough to write books!/>	2005-07-26
US	53058973	R1SD5U7UDGJOVX	0670031100	638630659	Mutants: On Genetic Variety and the Human Body	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Fascinating book, written with sensitivity	I am very interested in human genetics, and thought hard about becoming a genetic counseller.  I've read lots of books about genetics, and found something interesting---most seem very reluctant to talk much about genetic disease or human variation.  Perhaps they think it will seem like they are not being sensitive.  This book shows they are wrong.  I learned a great deal I didn't know before about genetics with the author's unique approach---to show how genetic mistakes and variations show us how genetics work.  For example, when someone is born with too many fingers, we can ask---what makes most of us have 5 fingers?  How does the developing body know to do that?  And how does it sometimes make other numbers?  Does it hark back to earlier forms of life?  The answers are so well explained here.  There are also many wonderful stories of those throughout history who had mutations that made them different---mainly not sad stories, but happy ones.  If you are interested in genetics and in the wonderful variety of life, you will greatly enjoy this book!	2005-07-19
US	53058973	R2PLYTM2SR2NZ8	0399152601	844067670	Don't Eat This Book	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Powerful message, but writing not as powerful!	If I were basing my review of this book strictly on how much it influenced me, it would certainly rate a 5!  I was really affected by reading it, especially by the information about how hamburgers are made---horrifying---and about trans-fatty acids and high fructose corn syrup.  I am truly going to try to cut back drastically on my family's intake of many things, and I am not sure I will EVER visit McDonalds again.<br /><br />However, the writing here doesn't really match the message!  I think the author is more of a movie-maker than an author.  I loved his documentary, but his writing is somewhat unpolished---with more slang, catch phrases (along the lines of \\"Super Sized Shake...mmmmm\\", then a few lines later \\"chicken nuggets---mmmm\\", always used sarcastically) and subject jumping around than I like.  It's certainly an easy read, but not an easy subject matter.  It's also not exactly unbiased writing---I am no fan of corporate America or of McDonalds, but I don't think they are quite as evil in every way as the author feels!<br /><br />If you have a choice between seeing the movie and reading the book, this is a rare time I would say choose the movie.  But if you plan to do both, prepare to be strongly affected by the facts here, if not blown away by skillful writing!	2005-07-03
US	53058973	R2EWC8UTS82KM2	1556434480	953680049	Children with Emerald Eyes: Histories of Extraordinary Boys and Girls	Books	2	21	23	N	N	Think twice before reading if you love an autistic child	My feelings about this powerful book are quite mixed.  On one hand, you have to have tremendous admiration for Mira, the author.  She obviously cares extremely deeply for the children profiled here.  She dedicates herself to them, working with them day and night and in some cases even taking them into her home.  The world of special needs children needs people like her.<br /><br />On the other hand, I was quite upset by this book.  This mainly was probably a case of changing times, as this book was written about the 50s and 60s, when thoughts were quite different about autistic children.  But it's still a popular book, and I fear people reading it might be influenced by it.  Mira overtly or not in most every case blames the parents somehow for the extreme problems of their children.  At the end of the book it is even revealed that this damage to the kids might somehow be done by telepathy!  She also seems to have a theory that autism has much to do with a fear of death, and most of the behaviors we see are attempts by the children to ward off death.  She twists their actions to fit this.<br /><br />It would be impossible in today's world, with the explosion of autism, for children to get the intense treatment profiled here by anyone but their parents.  However, after reading this, it makes you feel like for children such as this, getting away from their parents is the best thing---Mira seems to encourage children to see HER as the parent.  As someone quite familiar with the world of autism, books like this leave me feeling very upset.  If you are simply interested in a dramatic presentation of highly disturbed children, you will find that here.  However, if you are the parent of an autistic child, you might want to think twice before reading this highly outdated book.	2005-06-27
US	53058973	R2UFHE6C5ISCFX	0789498847	986915365	Shapes (Baby Genius)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Somewhat disappointing, if used for the ages listed	I bought several of this series of Baby Genius books for my 10 month old daughter---not to make her a genius, but because they looked like they would be colorful, interesting books.  They are to some extent, but they are not really right for 0-18m old babies, as they are marketed to be.  Babies that age are not too good at picking up anything subtle in books, and often the shapes shown here are hard to relate to as shapes---for example, the rectangle picture is of a toy box full of toys.  It's sort of a rectangle, but I think most babies would look at the box of toys, not the shape!  The diamonds are kites in a sky, which because they are blown by wind and shown from various angles, don't even look that much like diamonds.  The format is fairly uncluttered, but each page has a background with light colored shapes being featured on that page, which isn't really attractive and tends also to distract!  There is nothing really wrong with this board book, but with so many other choices out there, I think if you have a limited book budget, I'd look elsewhere!	2005-06-19
US	53058973	RVQEZ3XV91UFL	0746037821	116561513	That's Not My Teddy (Usborne Touchy Feely)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	One of the best of the many touch and feel books out there!	There are ALL KINDS of touch and feel books out there now, many more than there were 7 years ago during my prior go-round as a mother of a baby!  I find the quality varies a lot.  So far, this is the winner for me!  The pages are very thick, so the touchable parts of them can be thick also, and really be something you can touch.  When the teddy shown has a soft nose, it's truly soft fabric, and feels like it will stay that way.  The shiny eyes on another are big enough to really be noticed.  The pages are simple and uncluttered, and the story is basic enough to be understood by a young listener.  I plan on buying more from this series!	2005-06-19
US	53058973	R214UVZ5BRGCOZ	0803723466	742118457	Christmas with Teddy Bear	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An adorable book, adaptable to many ages	I really love this book!  The pictures are so adorable---you want to reach right in and cuddle Teddy and his kitty friend.  I also love the fact that each page has two levels of text---one is very simple, for example, just saying Singing Carols, and the other has more detail.  Each text page also has a little detail from the facing picture page.  Many of the pages have a kitty to find, which engages the very young, and the pictures have sweet details without being overwhelming.  I am going to look for more by this author/artist!	2005-06-19
US	53058973	R2AXRWOUM4HS7M	0448412608	967544104	Zack Files 01: My Great-grandpa's in the Litter Box (The Zack Files)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	This opening book hooked my 7 year old on the series!	I've been looking for a while for a nice long series of books that my 7 year old really liked.  I wanted to read to him each night, and perhaps even tempt him to read to himself when I made myself too busy!  He has an interest as many kids do in the supernatural, but I didn't want anything too extreme in this direction.  The Zack Files are perfect!  To start with, they are hilarious, especially for kids, but somewhat to me also.  They are clearly written, fast moving, not lots of description, and have great plots.  This first entry is about Zack adopting a cat that turns out to be a reincarnated relative of his.  My son especially loved the fact that characters, including the cat, show up over and over in later books.  You could probably jump into this series at any point, but I would start here---it's one of the strongest titles and a lot of fun to read!	2005-06-17
US	53058973	R274NVBHY8GHB6	1573222992	360305004	Plan B: Further Thoughts on Faith	Books	3	70	77	N	N	Very honestly written, but harsh tone defeats the message	I first encountered Anne Lamott when I read Operating Instructions, her wonderful book about her first year with her son Sam.  I have never read a more honest account of motherhood's beginnings, or one with more love shining through.  I've tried since then to find another book by her to love, without success.<br /><br />I agreed with almost all Lamott's views in this book---which are mostly political, despite this being subtitled a book about faith.  So my mixed feelings about this book are not because of differing political views.  Rather, I felt that the tone here was mostly harsh.  That's honest---it's nice to read that faith doesn't turn us all into happy clones.  But I guess when I read a book about faith, I would like to have some feeling of grace or of being uplifted or at least of happiness.  After reading this book, I felt totally depressed about the state of the world.<br /><br />I also felt often that Lamott was making fun of people she didn't agree with.  Especially when I read about her cruise, and her discomfort with all the flag adorned people, it seemed she didn't really try to follow the basic Golden Rule.  She seemed to have little regard for those she met, and it seemed as if she was on her own personal cruise---which is fine, but again, not really too uplifting.<br /><br />It was great to hear more about Sam, at least from my point of view.  From HIS point of view, I would guess that he might not want to have it in print that he could be very mean to other kids, that he got drunk a few times, that he doesn't like to go to church...all somewhat normal teenage things, but I always wonder if it's really a parent's place to write about their teenager.  There were a few times that she said she wasn't allowed to say more about him, but that didn't always seem to apply.<br /><br />The writing is skilled here, and the honestly refreshing---especially the section about starting a Sunday School and race.  But I don't really know what the reason for being of this book is---I don't feel like I learned more about Lamott's faith, or was given insight into my own, or even just plain enjoyed the reading.  I will be honest about this, as Lamott unfailingly is!for being of this book is---I don't feel like I learned more about Lamott's faith, or was given insight into my own, or even just plain enjoyed the reading.  I will be honest about this, as Lamott unfailingly is! <br />	2005-06-13
US	53058973	R3CSYOL5QCQM8S	0316608521	341509466	My Girl: Adventures with a Teen in Training	Books	3	15	17	N	N	A positive message, but oblivious to most of our realities	I very much liked the encouraging message of My Girl.  It was great to read about a positive mother/daughter relationship, and a pre-teen going into being a teenager without all the horrible issues the media would have us believe are rampart.  Sarah sounds like a very sweet girl, and Karen Stabiner a devoted and caring mother.<br /><br />That said, I must admit that the book bothered me in several ways.  One is an issue that I have with many parenting books and narratives.  Although the author wants to think they live a life most of us can relate to, most of us do NOT have all the resources they do.  If you can afford to buy a horse (even with some bargaining), pay for private school (with no mention of scholarships), go on a long vacation to Italy and so on, you have tools at your disposal that the average family does not.  I know many children grow up into their teenage years happily without such things, but it sure would make it easier to not have to deal with inferior public schools, to have the luxury of time away in a foreign country, and to be able to nurture an interest like horse showmanship.<br /><br />My question is always---what is the purpose of this book?  If it's to tell about a specific family's story---fine.  But there's really not enough here for that.  It's not a story that is fascinating enough to really interest those who don't know the people involved personally.  If it's to give an example for others---well, I for one very much doubt that many of us at all could do the things that Karen did for Sarah.  We COULD provide that kind of love, but I can see myself with my daughter in the future having to send her to, horror of horrors, public school (as my sons attend) and us NEVER having the luxury of a long vacation in Italy, and even if she loves horses, I think our exposure to them will be limited to rides at carnivals.  I think books like this are written in a way for the author's inner circle---like those other authors giving testimonials on the back cover.s on the back cover. <br />	2005-05-23
US	53058973	RCFW1YGJ9KQUA	0471465976	671941707	First Fathers: The Men Who Inspired Our Presidents	Books	4	1	1	N	N	I learned a great deal from this book!	I realized after reading this book how much of what I read here was totally new to me, although I have read a good deal about the presidents.  It seems, though, that much more focus is always put on the mothers of presidents, and the fathers are somewhat overlooked.  I really enjoyed learning what sort of fathers inspired their sons to be presidents!<br /><br />This book is scholary and well written.  At times, the language is a bit formal and for my taste, a little overly flowery.  It has the feel of a book written in the early part of the 1900s---which is certainly not all a bad thing!  It's not written in the casual style of so many books today.<br /><br />I was especially fascinated to read about Teddy Roosevelt's father.  I had no idea he was such a well loved person, and as the author says, the closest to a perfect father of any profiled here.  The story of Gerald Ford's birth father and then his step-father should be an inspiration to step-fathers everywhere.<br /><br />Definately worth a read!	2005-05-12
US	53058973	R5BRMB11L7PN9	1400043395	813354201	Never Let Me Go	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Amazing book--raises questions you will long think about	What an amazing book!  I found myself thinking and thinking about the issues it raised.  It came to me at a time in my life when I was thinking a lot about wasted chances and especially \\"wasted\\" education---is it ever a waste to learn if there is a sure knowledge you will never use that knowledge for earning or to teach others?  The characters have to constantly re-evaluate their lives based on ever increasing knowledge of their lot in life.<br /><br />The writing is wonderful in that it mirrors the lives of the characters.  Like Kath, we know many of the \\"secrets\\" of the book a bit from the start---it's not the sort of book with sudden horrifying revelations---but the bits and pieces we are told here and there add up to a horror beyond what they would if they were all told in at the end.<br /><br />The plot is fairly simple---a woman in her 30s starts recalling her youth at a boarding school after meeting up again with a old friend of hers and her friend's ex-boyfriend, who she had a crush on.  Through her work, she cares for both of them and learns more about why they were born, and what is in store for them.  To tell any more would be to tell too much, but suffice to say this story is both up to the moment and timeless.<br /><br />I am going to seek out the other writings of this author.  I hope this novel gets a wide reading.	2005-05-07
US	53058973	R2TQS661JA5S26	0670033243	881778311	The Lobster Coast: Rebels, Rusticators, and the Struggle for a Forgotten Frontier	Books	5	31	33	N	N	Absolutely fascinating and extremely well written book	Despite having grown up in midcoast Maine, the focus of this book, and having had Maine history in school, I learned so much from this book!  I had no idea how fascinating the history of coastal Maine was---perhaps because much of it is rather disturbing---not something they wanted to teach us in 6th grade!  I also now understand much more about the attitudes I grew up with regarding those \\"from away\\".  I learned that I was part of a huge migration into Maine in the early 70s---I had always known that most anyone in my class that was not native had moved to Maine the very same summer we did (summer of '72) but I never really realized why.  I've been away from Maine for a while now, and this book opened my eyes to some of the recent changes there---how many now are moving to Maine that have no interest in really becoming part of the culture they find there.  And of course, I also learned a great deal about lobstering.  Growing up, about half the kids in my class had fathers who were lobstermen, but this book greatly increased my knowledge of their culture and of lobsters themselves.  I can't recommend this book highly enough!!	2005-04-26
US	53058973	R2BMEIEDKCSVTU	0345456874	403901931	Five Quarts: A Personal and Natural History of Blood	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Wonderful blend of science, history and personal reflection!	Bill Hayes has a rare ability to wind together a tale, seamlessly including historal details, up to the minute science and his own life history.  It makes for great reading!  Sometimes when reading books such as this, I sigh internally when I get to an historical part, bracing for some dry reading, but so often when reading Five Quarts, I barely noticed we had changed topics from hearing about Hayes' five sisters to learning about Echlich and his important blood discoveries to reading about a modern blood bank.  All were equally well written and fascinating.  I admit I passed by this book several times as I am a bit squemish, and worried it would make me faint, but it really didn't, in case you have similar worries!  It DID make me decide I have waited long enough to give blood, and I want to become a blood donor.<br /><br />I hope Bill Hayes writes much more!  I would LOVE to read more about his life.  I loved Sleep Demons, which is a similar book in its mix of topics, and it seems like he would have much more to say about his life.	2005-03-21
US	53058973	R3NO0FHZ6D454M	0670032948	740535212	Overcoming Autism: Finding the Answers, Strategies, and Hope That Can Transform a Child's Life	Books	5	79	81	N	N	Finally, an autism book for the rest of us	I've read probably hundreds of books about autism spectrum disorders since having a child diagnosed with such.  This book marks the first time I felt I was reading about a parent like myself.  I almost cheered out loud early in the book when the author with a child with autism said she was not a tigress, not the type to confront any and all to help her child, just a parent that loved her child very much and was devoted to helping him.  So many books written by parents about autism are all about how far they have gone to help their child, and generally by following some quite narrow path, such as dietary intervention, ABA, etc.  I am always struck by how so little mention is made of any other children in the family, or of the great aspects of their child OUTSIDE the autism.  In this book, I really felt like I was reading about a whole family and a WHOLE CHILD---one with interests that while they might be unusual, were still kind of cool and not just obsessions to be gotten rid of.<br /><br />The clinical advice here is very well done.  It's practical to the extreme---right down to giving ideas about helping children know what to talk about during lunch at school (hint---all kids love to discuss how gross some foods are!)  While it is plainly said that helping your autistic child needs to take place full time, you are told how to do this in the course of continuing to live your life.<br /><br />I do think this book would be more helpful to those with verbal children.  While it does contain some advice for the non-verbal child, it seems to be more aimed at those with verbal and middle to higher functioning children.<br /><br />It meant so much to me that in the personal narratives, there was such a sense of reality---for example, although we all know how we are supposed to deal with night wakings, we might not all be primed to follow through in the middle of the night!<br /><br />It may be fascinating to read about the latest \\"miracle\\" to \\"cure\\" autism.  However, I think the reality is much more what is contained here---practical little things and big things we can do day after day after day to help our precious and valued children.ver, I think the reality is much more what is contained here---practical little things and big things we can do day after day after day to help our precious and valued children.	2004-12-12
US	53058973	R2HN8FNWV9XHFD	1400042135	927791454	The Love Wife	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Fascinating ideas are presented, but plot is not strong	I found myself really thinking after reading this book, especially about what I felt were its two main themes---class and adoption.  Over and over we see how those who feel they are in a higher class than others subtly make this known, and how those in the lower class are affected by this, and how things can get reversed.  Lan and Blondie's relationship really is incredibly well presented.  The meaning of family in relation to adoption is also something I got many new insights into after reading this---what makes someone family?  A twist at the end of the book especially makes you think!<br /><br />However, I found the plot of this book quite weak.  It seems to rely too much on big shocking events to move things along, or events that are meant to be shocking, but most of which you can see coming from half a book away.  I guess plot is not the important element here, though.  The book is mostly internal dialogue of its many characters, and we get to know most of them quite well, except in my mind for Carnegie, who never really comes alive for me.<br /><br />I read this book with a great deal of enjoyment, and found the time to finish it even with a small colicky baby needing my attention!  The author has a wonderful gift for characterization and also for sense of place---I am very familiar with a couple of her locals---the suburban Boston area and Maine---and they were very well presented!  I would certainly recommend this read.	2004-11-06
US	53058973	R2X6ZHOOV29I25	0375724591	516718361	The Pursuit of Alice Thrift	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Something hard to define but wonderful to read!	I have tried for a while in my mind to define just what it is that is so different about Lipman's characters in this book and her others.  It's hard to define, but it's something like this: She writes about the kind of people that exist so often in real life but so rarely in books---people who are not always witty, popular, gorgeous or rich, but people with interesting and meaningful lives nontheless.  So many authors seem to write about the kind of people they have probably met in writer's workshops---those who are very used to analysing their feelings and writing about them!  Alice Thrift is a socially inept person, very alone in the world and very lonely.  We come to understand her attraction to the slimy Ray Russo very well. And to Lipman's great credit, I think we even understand Russo a little, and are able to see him as not all bad.  In addition to the wonderful characters, this book is just plain funny!  So many scenes are so well done---for example, dinner at Leo's house or the birth of baby Fir.  I can't remember enjoying a book more lately!	2004-09-16
US	53058973	R28P95T61X6XCN	0807070963	126295078	Breathless: An Asthma Journal	Books	2	7	12	N	N	Not a book about asthma as a physical ailment	I loved Desalvo's Crazy in the Kitchen and was very eager to read this book, as both my sons have asthma.  However, I found this read extremely irritating.  Of course, one can only write from one's own perspective, but Desalvo's perspective on asthma is so very different than that of so many asthma sufferers, young children.  She seems overly involved in her own illness, and fascinated by her own symptoms, which do not seem terribly severe to me.  Mainly, however, I was annoyed by her view of asthma as a illness caused by emotional trauma---a view that has long been discredited.  Certainly it's a more interesting topic to write about than it would be to attribute asthma to traditional medical causes, and it allows her to explore asthma in literature, but it also reminds me of those bashing \\"refrigerator mothers\\" for autism.  I think her asthma could be quite easily explained in part by living near NYC and driving through polluted air each day, and working in a closed building near smokers.<br /><br />I think this book should be seen as a survey of asthmatics in literature, and not in any way as a depiction and explanation of asthma as a disease.	2004-08-14
US	53058973	R3HXTF3MPGBU4K	1582342989	929570560	Crazy in the Kitchen: Food, Feuds, and Forgiveness in an Italian American Family	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Not what I expected---far MORE than I expected	I picked up this book to read thinking it was like so many other books I have read about Italian-Americans in an attempt to better understand my husband's family---a light-hearted look at the &quot;crazy&quot; antics of a close knit, pasta eating bunch of eccentrics.  However, this is not at all what this book is, and what it actually is helped me more than any book I've read in understanding the family I have joined.<br />When Desalvo says &quot;Crazy in the Kitchen&quot;, she is not kidding.  Her mother and much of her family really does have seriously crazy tendencies---fury, cruelty, irrational financial habits, long running feuds, etc.  And the kitchen is where many of these things are played out---from her mother's poor cooking to her step-grandmother's good but steep in unbreakable traditions cooking, to the cooking and eating of her ancestors in Southern Italy, or the NOT eating---for I finally understood what drove so many Italians to come to America.  I had no idea how awful conditions were for the peasants of Italy.  What they were subjected to honestly reminded me of accounts of places like Cambodia or China, during the Great Leap Forward.<br />I learned a great deal about Southern Italian culture from this book, and found myself reading many passages to my husband, a first generation Italian-American who spent much of his youth in Sicily visiting, and who had parents who spoke only Italian, and even he was stunned to find out much of what I read.  I now understand my late in-laws much better than I did before this reading.<br />The writing style of this book took a bit to get used to, until I let myself fall into it.  It's written like so many stories told by my in-laws---in a bit of a circular way---you find out a bit here, and a bit there, and it all adds up in the end.<br />I want to thank Ms. Desalvo for this book. I look forward eagerly to reading the rest of her works.	2004-06-24
US	53058973	R1L6NZYEQ84XI4	0393057569	847757849	An Open Book: Coming of Age in the Heartland	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Wonderful memoir, for avid readers or not	It's a bit intimidating to write a review of a book by a book reviewer, but I have to try, as I loved this book so much!  I have a long list of books to read in the future, and once one of them comes to the top, I sometimes have forgotten what it's going to be about, so this one came as a real treat.  It tells of the author's childhood in Lorain, Ohio in the late 40s to the 60s, including his years at Oberlin.  As an avid reader with many memories of the joy of childhood reading (although I was not as sophisticated in my tastes are Dirda!) it's always a treat to be brought back to the that wonderful feeling of having a pile of new books to read, from the library or thrift stores or the school book club!  I enjoyed the list of books he had read through age 16 in an appendix.  I felt better about my own youthful reading knowing we had both at least read a few of the same books, even the quite light Cheaper by the Dozen!<br />An added treat for me is that although I didn't know this would be the case when I started the book, I got much insight into the land of my own early childhood---I was born in Elyria, next to Lorain, although we moved when I was 6, and my parents both went to Oberlin, a bit earlier than Dirda.  Earlier in the day I started this book, my mother for some reason told me of a time my father bought me shoes at Januzzi's, a shoe store I'd never heard of before---reading later that day of the author's own trip to Januzzi's was one of my most amazing reading moments of my lifetime!  Any author who can create a scene of place like Dirda did with the Lorain of his childhood is truly gifted.<br />I am eager now to get my hands of Dirda's other book, Readings!  Keep writing, Michael Dirda!!	2004-06-22
US	53058973	R22VGGVYUC8SWN	0399151001	287711100	Maverick Mind	Books	4	12	17	N	N	A fascinating read with some major flaws	This book is certainly worth a read for anyone who loves or teaches a child with special needs.  It tells of Whitney's emergance from what most would label autism.  He grows from a severely impaired child to a wonderful sounding teen, bright and talented.  His mother feels that the problem was what she calls a Maverick Mind, extremely visual to the exclusion of the auditory.  I loved reading about his school experiences and working with the educational system to get him what he needed.<br />However, it's only because this book is so well written and interesting that I gave it 4 stars.  It had major flaws, in my eyes.  First, the actual means to create this transformation are a bit glossed over.  We go from seeing Whitney as pretty much unreachable to seeing him as a child that can talk, write and read with not too much in-between.  Yes, he is worked with on \\"reading\\" logos and pictures, and putting rebus style words in order, but this alone doesn't seem enough.  It's very possible that all the years of caring and training suddenly paid off and kicked in, but this is not really what we are told.<br />Secondly, I got tired of hearing how talented and well-known and knowledgable and bright the author, Whitney's mother, was.  She was certainly uniquely qualified to help him, but that point was pounded in too much.  Also, we are told over and over how the clients, most of whom by the end of the book are \\"Maverick Minds\\" like Whitney, are from rich, powerful, CEO families.  Money also seems to be no object for Whitney's family, whether to buy new houses all the time, hire what sounds like pretty much a full time personal trainer or go to the best schools.  I was left wonderful what other families with children with Whitney but limited means might be able to do about their child.<br />Thirdly, although the author does explain in the foreward she has decided not to include her ex-husband in the book, his complete absense is a bit strange.  It is made to see like her 3 children are virgin births, and that he had no influence whatsoever during the 12 years he was with the family.  I would have liked to know just a little about him, at least what he was like and if some of the maverick traits may have come from him.<br />Overall, worth reading, but be prepared to be a bit irritated at points!ren are virgin births, and that he had no influence whatsoever during the 12 years he was with the family.  I would have liked to know just a little about him, at least what he was like and if some of the maverick traits may have come from him.<br />Overall, worth reading, but be prepared to be a bit irritated at points!	2004-06-19
US	53058973	R20W4I6TRO3UM7	0805073124	167469085	The Weight of It: A Story of Two Sisters	Books	3	6	7	N	N	There is a fascinating book here, but not on weight issues	Amy's sister Alison certainly sounds like a person that would be fascinating to know...immensely creative, complicated and colorful.  I enjoyed reading about her very much.  However, the subject of her weight gain and loss is not nearly enough to carry this book.  It might have been, if she herself had written the book, but reading about someone's else's weight issues from a sister's perspective is not, frankly, that interesting.  I'm not saying that Amy Wilensky is not a skilled writer, for she certainly is, and I loved a lot of the little details included here, but I think she would have done better to write a general family memoir or a portrait of her sister overall.<br />I also found upon finishing the book that I didn't really completely get her perspective and feelings about her sister pinned down.  The book starts with a scene on an airplane where her sister Alison is portroyed quite negatively, and scattered throughout the book are other scenes like this.  Sometimes they seem to be out of the narrative flow and I am not sure why they are included in the way they are...they seem a little mean-spirited alongside the more balanced parts of her characterization of Alison.  I think perhaps Amy's feelings are still a bit in flux about her sister, and this book may have been better written with the perspective of a few more years.<br />I would not discourage buying or reading this book, and in fact I am quite eager to read Amy's other book, Passing for Normal, but I would not buy it if you are mainly interesting in reading about weight issues or weight loss surgery.	2004-06-12
US	53058973	R2SZUNS4P3J7RB	1400049393	697162591	Dispatches from a Not-So-Perfect Life: Or How I Learned to Love the House, the Man, the Child	Books	5	6	11	N	N	Made me think, made me angry, made me love the book!	At some points in this book I felt so annoyed with the author I could scream.  I felt like telling her \\"you are so lucky to have the husband you have, and you can't EXPECT the very early breast-feeding years to be equally divided in terms of child care---it's a biological fact!\\"  However, what I loved about the book is that it made me think constantly, and that it was unfailingly honest.  Also, the author's love for her children shone through.  A book like this will help a lot of mothers realize that's OKAY to feel totally fed up with how your life feels on any given day, and that doesn't mean you don't love your kids or husband just as much.<br />A couple ideas and points I especially liked---how Faulkner gradually found a way to make \\"mother-friends\\" and to understand that this type of friendship is not going to be the same as other friendships, but it doesn't make it less real, and how she articulated something I have long felt---for some of us that really love conversation, the best part of mothering doesn't kick in until the kids can talk!  Also, I thought until this reading that my kids were the only ones on earth fascinated by conjoined twins!<br />I don't agree with everything written here, but that's not the point of reading always---it's sometimes more important to be made to think and question than to just have all the feelings you already have validified.	2004-06-09
US	53058973	R15YZWJ033LU05	0399150838	142987744	So Many Books, So Little Time	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Fun to read about a passionate reader--but limited viewpoint	The very idea of this book attracted me quite a bit.  I love to read about other passionate readers, and I was very curious to see what books Nelson picked.  I found myself a bit disappointed when done reading this book, however.  I think what most bothered me was her quite limited viewpoint.  Of course, we can all read and think only from our own world view mianly, but hers is one quite over-represented in the literary world---that of a well to do, New York City career woman working in fashion/magazine industry.  I got the feeling throughout the book, although of course this was never stated, that she didn't feel other types of people could REALLY be passionate readers!<br />I also got annoyed by how she seemed very impressed with herself on just how much she read, and how all those around her just seemed astonished she could possibly read that much.  To me, a book a week would be FAR below my average from the age of 7 through the next 30 years of my life!  And I'm not alone---I know many other readers that probably average about a book a day, while managing to have a career, children, a husband..etc.<br />However, I don't mean to be all negative.  I liked this book, mainly I think for the glimpses into Nelson's family life, and for the times when I either agreed with her wholeheartedly about a book (for example, Lipman's early works, A Million Little Pieces, The Spirit Catches You and You Fall Down and quite a few more) or was intrigued enough by her recommendations to want to try a new book (Marjorie Morningstar, The Lovely Bones).<br />I think an interesting follow-up to this book would be one about her son Charley's reading!  As a parent of 2 boys around his age, the chapters about getting him to be a reader were the most interesting ones to me.  I also related to her having an educated husband who is a non-reader!<br />Overall, worth reading, but not all I could have hoped.	2004-06-08
US	53058973	R3I50M5EA15O6T	1586481541	132075117	Monkey Dancing: A Father, Two Kids, And A Journey To The Ends Of The Earth	Books	3	6	6	N	N	The mixed focus here doesn't allow any story depth	Let's start with what I liked about this book.  In contrast to many of the readers, I enjoyed hearing the details about the author's children and their day to day life.  I have read accounts of so called family travel where it seems that the children of the family play a very small part---they are along for the ride, but seem to be farmed off often.  Here, the children are omnipresent.  I also loved hearing about various cities in the Far East---what the hotels are actually like, what is eaten, the nitty gritty travel details.<br />However, the book is really at least 5 books intertwined.  One is the travel story.  Another is the sad story of the author's brother's death from breast cancer.  The third is the story of of the author's divorce, which he seems far from over.  Still another focuses on endangered animals.  There is of course also the part about the perils of raising a 13 and 9 year old as a single father.  I often found it jarring to move suddenly from one focus to another---shifts sometimes even involving a change of fonts.<br />Although I appreciate the author's true honesty, I know I'm probably not alone in disagreeing with many of his parenting decisions, especially involving drug use and his young son.  I also kept wanting to reach through the pages and tell his children to be a little more grateful for the unbelievable experience they were having---they both seemed world-weary and easily bored beyond their years.  Did they realize how few children would belong to families with the inclination AND funds for such a trip??<br />All in all, I'm glad I read this, and I did feel it was well written, with an honest voice.	2004-05-03
US	53058973	R8G0GUVPTA72Y	0312301510	619086680	Finding Annie Farrell: A Family Memoir	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A must read for lovers of Maine---an amazing book	I am not sure when was the last time I read a book with which I felt such a connection.  The author's quest to understand her mother, who grew up in rural inland Maine in the 1930s, and who wound up a very depressed housewife in New York City, would be a compelling tale even in less able hands, but the wonderful writing here makes this an amazing book.  I grew up in Maine, but in coastal Maine, and I think reading this book was one of the first times I truly understood the vast difference between coastal Maine and inland Maine, even after reading and re-reading the wonderful We Took to the Woods, written about the same time period as Harpaz's mother's childhood.  Annie Farrell's sisters are both well drawn individuals and also so much like so many women I knew in Maine, especially during the times I spent in Aroostook County as a young adult.  The gradual unfolding of family secrets, and the realization that some stories can never really be confirmed or disputed is something most of us have found in learning about family history, but few can tell it as well as this book does.  If you love family memoirs, geneology, Maine, New York City, World War II stories, or in fact just good reads in general, I highly recommend this book!	2004-03-01
US	53058973	R1M8KS8Q5ZGI1L	0970072155	928499724	Bird of One Wing: A Vietnamese Woman's Story	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A wonderful read, full of details of everyday life	I loved this book the most for the details of the author's life.  It's rare to read a book that tells in lots of detail the ordinary parts of a life lived in extrordinary times and places---what is eaten, what jobs are held, what school is like, what family life is like.  Although Vietnam during the period the author was growing up and in her 20s, the scope of this book, was a war zone, this is not really a war book, but more a book about what everyday life in a war zone is like.  It's written with unusual frankness---no effort is made to make the author look better or worse than she really is.  I like it that it is not ghost written---the author's own voice is used, and she tells things in her own way and order, not always immediately explaining things like the value of money or why people are addressed in the way they are.  This serves to immerse you in her life.<br />The subplot of this book is how having an abusive childhood affects you.  At times, I was not sure the author really saw herself as abused, although she certainly was.  But the cultural differences keep her from reacting or speaking of this abuse in the way a Westerner might.  Instead, we are allowed to see for ourselves how she expects the abuse to continue in her marriage, and how surprised she is when it does not.  It's only in the epiloge that we see she is aware of this abuse, and wants to help others living with parental abuse.<br />Definately highly recommended!	2004-02-21
US	53058973	RY3108OVR06CZ	0345451422	340711328	Quirky Kids: Understanding and Helping Your Child Who Doesn't Fit In- When to Worry and When Not to Worry	Books	4	22	24	N	N	Strong point of view, helpful suggestions,some bias	As the parent of what this book terms a quirky child, and as a fan of Klass' other works, I read this book eagerly.  In many ways I was not disappointed.  I liked the strong point of view here---the authors were not afraid to take stands on such issues as how much therapy is really helpful to a child (they believe, as I do, that a child needs some time to just be a child!) and they took a strong stance in favor of vaccines, and had skepticism about diets that some say can \\"cure\\" autism related disorders.  They were great at putting things in perspective, and saying it was okay to enjoy your child's personality and see their good points, and they were honest about how hard childhood can be for a quirky child---as despite what many think, childhood is a time when a great deal of conformity is expected.<br />My quibbles with this book involved the same thing as its strong points---a sometimes one-sided point of view.  For example, public schools are given weak praise, with statements along the lines of \\"most kids will have to have at least some time in public schools, and they usually do fairly well\\" (not an exact quote, but along those lines).  Private schools are given much more time and discussion, although it is acknoledged briefly that for many of us, private schools are out of the question financially!  Also, we are told it is best if mothers keep working, to keep their identity and have some time away from parenting---all well and good, but what if you have decided to be a stay at home mom and were not working to start with, or what if your job involves working at something that is not terribly rewarding, instead of being a pediatrician or lawyer or the like?<br />Overall, I would recommend this book, for its positive outlook and solid ideas, but it should not be used alone---as with most books on special needs, they work best as part of much reading, to get many viewpoints.	2004-02-18
US	53058973	R3R696J6OAG3X8	0140287248	307179602	To The Edge Of The Sky	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A wonderfully written, absolutely compelling memoir	I have read many memoirs about life in China during the Cultural Revolution and the Great Leap Forward, but I found this one to be among the very best I've read.  The author writes from the heart, and includes so many fascinating and sometimes horrifying details.  I found most interesting watching her own inner transformation, from a model child who believed all she was told about Mao and the Chinese government, to an adult who had the courage to defy her unjust accusers without fear.  I pray for her continued happiness in England.	2004-02-16
US	53058973	R3GXYFBPO6I0PG	0375401202	698290389	Raising America: Experts, Parents, and a Century of Advice About Children	Books	3	56	60	N	N	Centered on the experts, not the advise or children	Perhaps my very mixed feelings about this book came from unmet expectations.  I thought it would be a book about the history of the actual advise given American parents---how advise about such issues as toilet training, sleep and eating have changed over the years, and how this affected parents.  However, the book was actually much more about the experts themselves---THEIR childhoods, education, marital problems, academic careers, etc.  This might be interesting to some, but it wasn't to me for the most part.  The book had a feel of an insider sort of expose---written for those in the academic world.  Children were mentioned very little, except if they happened to be the children of the experts themselves.  There was much delving into the psychological history of each expert, but I found that at times I had a very vague idea what the experts actually advised!  For example, Hall, an early expert, had his life opened for scrutiny, but I would be hard pressed to explain what his child care views were.  The writing was scholary and confident, but in no way personal---the author's children or her own views are not mentioned.  So I guess I would just advice that you know what you want to read about before buying this book---It might be just what you are looking for, but it might be far from what you are looking for.	2004-02-01
US	53058973	R2Y95X4K82OL7L	0786867019	940417470	Fanny and Sue: A Novel	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Full of the kind of details that satisfy!	I can understand what the Publishers Weekly reviewer was talking about---if he or she is used to \\"modern\\" novels full of very sad happenings and completely nothing sentimental and many deep character insights, this would not be the book to read.  However, if they were like many of the real people out there, they would probably love this book.  It's full of details that really made the place and time (St. Louis in the 20s and 30s) come alive for me---things like what Fanny and Sue wore, what they ate, how their room was decorated, what it was like in the isolation factory, how they prepared for their first date and how their parents reacted, all that.  I kept waiting for the ultra sad moment to arrive that often mars such a read for me, and was relieved it never came---their lives had their ups and downs like most of our lives, but they moved on.  This book is crying out for a sequel---it ends just as the next phase of their life is starting.  I loved World of Pies also, and am looking forward to more by this stand-out author.	2003-09-02
US	53058973	R1L50Q536JDGGW	0520223543	654873603	To See and See Again: A Life in Iran and America	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A wonderful book---has created a quest for knowledge in me	I haven't read a book for a long time that opened up so many worlds to me as this one did.  It made me want to read much more about Iran.  Like many Americans, before reading this account of a life lived between Iran and America, I knew little about life in Iran, and even less about the life of women there.  I had no idea what a rich and fascinating culture it was.  The author writes so well---and one thing I really liked was the balance between this being a book about her and her life and about the culture in general.  Some books become like an excuse for self-analysis, and others like a disguised history book, but this one hit just the right balance.  I hope I will read more some day by this talented writer.	2002-03-02
US	53058973	RBXUO033H03SN	0395984955	984064133	The Tender Land: A Family Love Story	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An amazingly well written book---hopeful and heartbreaking	It has been a good long while since I've read a book as well written as The Tender Land.  Finneran writes in a style that seems to be unaffected by other books covering this sort of topic---a family tragedy.  She writes without sensationalism or blaring confrontations about a family that is basically kind, decent and loving, but haunted by what they call &quot;the sadness&quot;---depression that affects them generation after generation.  By going back and forth in time, we learn by the end so much about this caring and unique family, and how they managed to go on after losing one of their own.	2001-12-09
US	53058973	R3FJJ0OTA7EQBG	1585420484	232534591	Everything in Its Place: My Trials and Triumphs with Obsessive Compulsive Disorder	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The best book on OCD I've ever read	I've been reading through all books I can find about OCD, as I have recently been diagnosed with this disorder.  I thought this one would be lightweight, full of stories about Double Dare and written in a comic style.  Was I wrong!  Summers is so honest about his life and his OCD.  He included information about the disorder that I have never read elsewhere, even in books that are written to be overall medical guides.  I also very much enjoyed how honest he was writing about other aspects of his life, including show biz and his family life.  He sounds like a fine person that I would love to get to talk to someday.  It was especially interesting for me to read how long it took him to seek treatment, even after he realized what he had, as I have been through that myself.  I want to thank him for writing this book and for having so much courage in sharing his story.  It was his appearance on Oprah that first made me sure I did have OCD, although like him, I did nothing about it for quite a while.  I had forgotten (or blocked out) that I ever saw him on the show until I read this book!  A real must read for anyone interested in OCD.	2001-05-21
US	53058973	R3LAIK9M27TMXW	0345412680	82576213	A Season in Hell: A Memoir	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Some details were interesting, but overally self-centered	I picked up this book to read as it looked to be an interesting medical tale.  I knew nothing about the author before reading it.  I found it to be well-written, and I am intrigued enough that I am going to seek out more books by French, but this particular work I found to be overally self-centered.  French's recovery was indeed quite remarkable, but she doesn't really put it into any kind of context---the book reads to be an endless list of all her suffering and pain.  I found her to not seem to really appreciate how blessed she was to be able to afford all the help she did, and to have family that seemed endlessly devoted.  She talked about all her children must have spent to be able to do all they did for her, but didn't mention reimbursing them, although she did mention having a Porsche and a NY City apartment with 5 bathrooms.  I guess this book was totally honestly written, and I can appreciate that, as it honestly didn't make the writer too likable.	2001-04-17
US	53058973	R38FO75OVPZYWM	0716738317	331098366	Angles of Reflection: Logic and a Mother's Love	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Good writing, but the point being made is hard to make out	I found this book to be very well written, and at the beginning I had high hopes that I would like it very much.  However, I found that as the book went on, I was less and less sure what point the author was trying to make and just what the focus of the book was supposed to be.  What the author's son Ned went through with two unrelated and severe medical problems was compelling to read about, but not really enough to carry the book.  The math history parts of the book often seemed quite unrelated to the main tale.  Perhaps the book was a way to expose the many uncaring or distant medical professionals the author encountered, but this was not tied together into a real message.  Or perhaps the author was telling her story to justify her decision not to return to the States with her son once he ran into medical troubles in Germany---which in my eyes didn't really need justifying---I would not see Germany as having less competant medical care than the US.  In any case, I found the ending a bit unfinished---I didn't really see how all of a sudden Ned's elbow was fixed, and we were not told much about the final outcome of his seizures or his brain surgery, although the book was published at least 3 years after these problems started.  I feel there could have been a much better book here with more focus and more of a unified point.  However, I did finish the book and am still thinking about it--a sign of something worth reading.	2000-11-11
US	53058973	R1FF566SJ6FYUJ	0688175899	752446232	White Coat: Becoming A Doctor At Harvard Medical School	Books	2	4	4	N	N	A potentially compelling story buried in poor writing	I have read many books about the process of becoming a doctor, and looked forward eagerly to reading this one.  However, I found it so poorly written that it was almost unreadable.  The writer sounds like a compassionate person who is almost surely a fine and caring doctor, but I think she should stick to that profession and not writing.  I never felt I got to know her in any way---her emotions and thoughts came through in a severely muted way.  Her main way of describing each and every person she encounters, patient or not, is by their appearance---with special attention to if they are at all overweight---with note of if this is mild, moderate or severe!  Even when telling about her most upsetting experience ever during her training, a case where by not speaking up, a child might have been given a medication he was allergic to, she was not able to describe the incident or her feelings in such a way that I felt any of what she felt.  I did enjoy hearing some of the medical stories, but I think I would have enjoyed them just as much if they were simply a case history and not part of this book.  I am surprised this account was actually published.	2000-11-05
US	53058973	R1MS548KU77AK4	1565122917	901814476	The House on Dream Street: Memoir of an American Woman in Vietnam	Books	5	1	3	N	N	The best kind of writing about other lands	This is exactly the kind of style I most love when reading about Americans living in other lands.  Sachs writes about people, not places.  We get to know Vietnam by getting to know the people she meets and becomes close to, and we also get to know her---she writes in such a truthful way.  Her writing doesn't seem to have an agenga, as does much writing done about similar circumstances.  Even if you don't have an interest in Vietnam, you will enjoy this book if you just plain enjoy good writing.	2000-10-23
US	53058973	R2VJL4B45X0874	0684863588	43535728	Stick Figure: A Diary of My Former Self	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Amazing look into how anorexia developed in an 11 year old	I loved the way this book was written---not as if an adult was looking back, but as if a child of eleven was actually writing.  I felt that I could see very clearly from her perspective how she became anorexic, and how her thinking became so distorted without her realizing it.  I did wonder, as I often do when reading books that depict the author's parents so negatively, what the family reaction to this book's publication was!  In addition to getting a look at the development of a disease, I was able to see what it must have been like growing up in Beverly Hills, and I am certainly glad I didn't!	2000-09-27
US	53058973	R3PD9F79GTO4UH	0375501886	535618685	Without Reservations: The Travels of an Independent Woman	Books	2	8	11	N	N	Not a book to turn to for interesting travel tales	I have always enjoyed travel tales---often written with a very wry and humorous touch, or full of interesting and bizarre characters, or just plain fascinating, with new and exciting locales around every corner.  This book looked promising to me, but it does nothign I mentioned above!  The author takes a year from her life to visit Paris, England and Italy.  Money seems to not be an object, and she dines and shops, visits toristy spots while being annoyed by other tourists and meets up with rich locals and fellow tourists, and goes to some fancy parties and restaurants.  I think she thinks she is somehow undergoing self-discovery during this time, and maybe she is, but it is not of a type that readers unconnected with her life would really be interested in.  I did finish this book, and enjoyed bits and pieces of it---mainly descriptions of meals and hotels and apartments, which she did describe well!  But there is so much better travel writing out there, I wish I had saved my reading time for other books.	2000-09-27
US	53058973	R1U7T7LLJU6M0H	0609605313	698546621	I Hope You Have A Good Life: A True Story of Love, Loss and Redemption	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Man stories in one, all compelling	The main story alone that this book tells would be enough to keep a reader fascinated---an adopted daughter finding her birth mother, and finding out both are fighting cancer.  This book tells lots of other stories too, and they are good ones---the crumbling of a marriage, a father reconnecting with his grown sons, a family moving to America, and more.  The writing is clear and at times heartbreaking.  Certainly worth a read.	2000-09-27
US	53058973	R1DNOS4GV7DSX	0684831643	302682380	Unraveling the Mystery of Autism and Pervasive Developmental Disorder: A Mother's Story of Research and Recovery	Books	3	20	26	N	N	Fine book flawed by attitude toward those might disagree	I read this book in one sitting, and found much that interested me greatly.  I was far more convinced by it than by anything else I have read  to think more about a special diet for my autistic spectrum child, and was  also fascinated by the many other theories touched on here---the connection  between autism and auto-immune disorders, ideas about mothers for whom the  MMR vaccine doesn't &quot;take&quot; and having a child with autism, etc.  However, a few things about this book disturbed me.  Although the book does  state that the very restricted special diet seems to only work in 1 of 3  children with autism, the author seems to have quite a bit of anger and  disdain for parents who chose not to try the diet---I was really troubled  by her description of a scene in a grocery store after a meeting with a  parent who had not been convinved to try the diet.  I feel quite sure I  know what at least partially caused my child's autism, and although I am  extremely open to and interested in all theories and ideas on how to help  him, I do not want to be judged for not trying any certain one.  However,  if you do have a child with autism, I think that it's worth reading this  book, as it's well written, and making a decision on your own as to what to  do with what you do with what you read here.	2000-08-22
US	53058973	R1O4Q23BU2IC68	0060976772	698945189	Family	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A complex, fascinating read	I loved the style of this book.  Each paragraph is incredibly packed with meaning and information.  This book is history of the most enjoyable  kind---the little stories that make up a person's life.  Through seeing the  patterns of the lives of the author's ancestors, both recent and far  distant, we see patterns in history---especially religious history.  We  also see the history of small towns in the midwest, and of childbearing and  rearing, and of education.  The most enjoyable part of the book for me was  the author's own nuclear family's tale.  His parents are complex and very  interesting people.  I am a fast reader, but this book was impossible to  read fast---you really have to slow and listen and enjoy it.  Highly,  highly recommended.	2000-08-16
US	53058973	RGK502S7CKUTI	0060175346	66872382	The Explosive Child: A New Approach for Understanding and Parenting Easily Frustrated, "Chronically Inflexible" Children	Books	3	25	31	N	N	Some important concepts, but large problems with the theory	I loved about the first half of this book.  I think it's so important for people working with inflexible and explosive children to understand they don't WANT to be that way, and to learn to give in on the more minor issues  in order to not be in constant battle.  However, by the end of the book, I  was left feeling that there were large gaps in his ideas.  For one,  although we are told there are issues on which there should be no giving  in, we are not really told how to enforce our stands on these issues, and  since so many issues are said to be ones on which we must negotiate, I  think that many children would be forgiven if they didn't think that we  REALLY meant it on the issues we are NOT to give in on!  A case study  example about using give and take on one issue (going overnight to a  friend's house when the child hasn't gotten enough rest lately) seems to me  like it is basically just totally giving in---I don't think a child would  learn any skills on give and take from how it was shown to be done.  Also,  call me old-fashioned, but I can't stand how many obscenities are used in  examples in this book.  I think we can get the point after a few that this  is an issue Greene feels we should ignore!  However, even with all these  complaints, I think I did get some valuable ideas from this book,  especially about what goes on in the head of an inflexible, explosive  child.	2000-08-01
US	53058973	R21TTO3ZP8U2XJ	0803721439	116608237	Bunny Cakes (Max and Ruby)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Max as always finds a way to get what he wants-a great book!	The charm of the Max and Ruby books owes much to the fact that many of us have had an older sibling or friend like Ruby---she knows more, is able to do more and wants to be in charge, but Max always finds a way to get what  he wants!  This book also explores the mystery of writing, and made my  older son eager to learn to write---and I think writing is a topic less  stressed in picture books than reading.  Everyone should have a grandma  like Max and Ruby, someone who will love both edible and inedible cakes  equally!  As always, Wells is wonderful!	2000-08-01
US	53058973	R3I450IMW66TY2	0374374937	335719098	This Train	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Very simple text with very interesting and detailed pictures	This book caused a tantrum at the library!  My younger son found it there, and we read it through a few times, but forgot to take it out.  When we got home and he realized this, he was so upset!  He had instantly fallen in  love with it, and we wound up buying it.  The text is as simple as it can  be---each page just says something like &quot;this train is long&quot; or  &quot;this train is short&quot;, but the pictures are detailed and colorful  and the kind true train lovers can look at for hours.  His favorite is the  LONG, LONG train.  This is the kind of book that young kids can memorize  and &quot;read&quot; easily, which they love to do.  I'd certainly  recommend this for any member of the train loving set.	2000-07-30
US	53058973	R3HFHPCNGFSFIE	0805060464	782618280	Expecting Miracles: On the Path of Hope from Infertility to Parenthood	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fascinating to read, great case studies	I really enjoyed this book and found it so inspirational.  I loved the  format---basically all stories (I called them case studies in the title,  but that's really too dry a term---they are warm and complete stories) of  people going through treatment for infertility, and the outcome of these  treatments.  I think almost every possible kind of case is covered!  The  book is very honest about how tough it can be to go through the  treatment---I really had no idea how much was involved in assisted  reproduction, and I gained new respect for what some families go through to  have children.  I did think once or twice that the book might have been  more balanced if there were one or two more cases in it where the  technologies were not successful, to make the book more like the statistics  of how often such treatments really do work.  But I know this was a book  about successes, and I think it would be very inspirational to a lot of  people, in addition to being well written and a great read.	2000-07-08
US	53058973	R2GZQ8ELOR85Z4	0807507431	943025673	Billy and the Big New School (Concept Books (Albert Whitman))	Books	3	7	7	N	N	enjoyable pictures, but analogy will be lost on most kids	My sons enjoyed the pictures in this book, and were mildly interested in Billy starting school, but they totally didn't get the extended analogy about the lost sparrow working its way back to health and happiness, and  Billy getting comfortable with going to school.  I would have liked more  details actually about school, and how Billy adjusted.  However, the cute  little detailed pictures of both school and birds were a lot of fun to  study!  If you have a child that loves birds, this might be a good choice,  but I would not look to it for much help in transitioning to school.	2000-06-21
US	53058973	R1QZXFW4JO52C2	0688119298	815483311	How I Was Adopted	Books	4	29	30	N	N	A straighforward and cheerful introduction to adoption	While my sons are not adopted, they have friends and extended family that are.  This book was a good introduction to them to the concept.  It's very straightforward and written in such a way that it could apply to a lot of  different adoption situation---details are not that specific just to  Samantha.  It is very upbeat and cheerful.  Just a note---the book does  assume the kids that are hearing it are adopted, and it has questions like  &quot;Do you know how old you were when you were adopted?&quot; which  confused my sons a little!  So be aware of this if you are reading it just  for general awareness!  The pictures are cute, bright and with neat  details.	2000-06-21
US	53058973	R2074YH9ZEYR6M	0060228962	364723035	The Tub Grandfather	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Captivating, but a bit creepy!	My sons listened to this book intently several times.  It tells the tale of a group of tub people that live in a bathroom finding another of their kind that somehow had gotten under the radiator a long while ago, and  bringing him back to &quot;life&quot;.  He is the grandfather of the group,  and the grandmother is very happy to have him back with her.  The pictures  are sort of mystical and mellow.  While this is an interesting concept  (we've all had members of our toy family go missing for a long time and  then be found and brought back to the fold) I found it a bit of an odd  story for kids.  My older son was made quite nervous by it, asking  &quot;was the grandfather DEAD? How did he come back from dead?&quot;.  He  was also bothered by the fact the grandfather had lost an eye.  If you  think your kids might be made nervous by concepts like that, you might want  to avoid this or at least read it through first yourself!	2000-06-21
US	53058973	RDZI8RYWNG0J4	0786805072	869339187	Emily's First 100 Days of School	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Another winner by Rosemary Wells--just delightful!	This book is really special!  Emily counts off the first 100 days of school by talking about each and every number and matching it up with something to do with that day--her sister Eloise learning to play Seventy  Six Trombones, her class learning about the nine planets, the prizewinning  pumpkin at the fair weighing 33 pounds, and so on!  The book is oversized,  and filled with great Wells pictures.  In the short piece of info given  with each number, we get to know Emily's family and the joys and sorrows of  her first year of school.  We've read this book over and over.  It's great  for a child just starting to get excited about numbers, as they can look up  their favorite ones to see what that number has associated with it.  It  would also be a great book for a child starting school.  If you love  Rosemary Wells, as I do, you knew you would like this book, but even I was  impressed with how special it is!	2000-06-19
US	53058973	R2CY0NJ00G9X32	067974083X	306112853	Fugitive Spring: Coming of Age in the '50s and '60s	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Wonderful to read, but frustrating too	I am not a poetry fan, and have not read Digges' poetry, but I can imagine from this book that she is very talented.  Her prose is like poetry--beautiful to read and able to bring strong emotions to the reader,  but as a memoir this book is a little frustrating.  So much is started and  not finished, or told about in bits and pieces.  We are told of her  mother's very tough last birth (the author is one of 10 children) but never  what made it so tough or what the outcome is, we are told she has problems  in her first marriage that lead to divorce, but never really are shown what  is wrong in the marriage, and indeed all the people in this book don't come  alive for me, including her parents, who are central characters.  I don't  mean to discourage reading of this book, I am very glad I read it and  enjoyed it a great deal.  I love her way of describing specific incidents,  like her first week of college when she was so homesick or high school home  ec, but I wish there was more to this book---I'd have loved to know more  about her and more specifics on her life!	2000-06-12
US	53058973	R2DI8RHP6BMPK9	0399145702	717777341	The Cat Who Robbed a Bank	Books	4	28	31	N	N	Very enjoyable entry into the Cat Who series	The Cat Who... books are the only mystery series I read.  I'm really not a mystery fan, so I probably judge them differently than someone would who cares a lot about the quality of the mystery---to me, that is a secondary  or less concern!  I really enjoyed this entry into the series.  It's like  visiting friends you haven't spent time with in a year or so to read each  new Cat Who book.  Several things stood out for me in the entry.  I felt  like I really got to know Qwill better, as he got to know himself and his  past better.  I got the feeling his relationship with Polly is deepening,  and I love reading about that, as unlike some Cat Who fans, I really like  Polly!  As always, there were many great food descriptions, always a  highlight of these books for me!  And the mystery itself was well done,  although the outcome wasn't too much of a surprise.  Another enjoyable  thing about this book---more focus on the cats!  It seemed like they came  into the story more than in some recent entries into the series, and Koko  had more of his mystical talents showing!  I know there are those who will  say this doesn't live up to the early cat books, and they are probably  right, but for me, it's enough that I can read more about the little world  of Pickax, and feel relaxed and happy spending some time there!	2000-06-03
US	53058973	RCJG1M24CDDAO	0064420264	603447487	Flat Stanley (A Trophy Chapter Book)	Books	5	26	30	N	N	Fondly remembered from my childhood, sly clever humor!	I was exposed to this book first by having a section of it in a 5th grade reading book!  I didn't know for years that it was out there somewhere as a whole book, and I think finally around high school found it at the library  and read the whole thing at last.  Just recently I once again remembered  it, and got it for my sons!  I appreciate it more as an adult---the humor  is so dry and the dialogue so deadpan!  My favorite scene is that with  Stanley's doctor---how he says of it not hurting Stanley to be flat  &quot;well, that's mostly how it is with these cases&quot; as if he's seen  hundreds of boys flattened by bulletin boards!  As a child of course I  liked best having Stanley sent by mail to California!  I have to admit this  book dragged a bit for my sons in reading it to them, but I think perhaps  they are really too young for it (at 5 and 2)---but I couldn't wait to read  it to them!	2000-05-29
US	53058973	R3EHHR45NDBUBB	0140501746	401415708	One Morning in Maine (Picture Puffins)	Books	5	56	57	N	N	I loved this as a child in Maine, and I still love it today!	This book, along with Blueberries for Sal and Time of Wonder, by the same author, were some of my favorite books as a child growing up in Maine.  I loved them because the children did things I did---dug for clams, picked  blueberries, took boat rides to get ice cream, played on the rocky shore  and on and on!  I loved the pictures because they are so detailed and  realistic.  This book in particular was a favorite because it was about an  older Sal than in Blueberries for Sal, dealing with the universal  excitement of losing a first tooth.  I love her relationship with her  younger sister Jane, who is drawn as one of the most adorable toddlers  around.  If you are looking for a calm and wholesome in the best way book  for your child, this might be one you want to consider.	2000-05-29
US	53058973	R2GPJ91SIJ0LOI	0689713355	442443020	Nothing Ever Happens on My Block	Books	5	9	9	N	N	This book provided many happy hours for my sister and me!	I don't know how many hours my sister and I spent looking at this book as a child!  I sure wish it were still in print.  It was so much fun seeing what had changed at each house from page to page, as Chester sat there  bored as can be!  I can't remember all the details as I don't think I've  seen this book for a book 20 years, but I know a cat had kittens that moved  into all the other houses, a house burnt down and was rebuilt, there was a  witch that showed up here and there, and so on!  I hope to find a copy of  this so my boys can enjoy it too.	2000-05-29
US	53058973	R1M14HZGOAJPK0	0689315805	575475456	Country Crossing	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A peaceful, comforting book that pulls you in	It took 3 or 4 readings for me to start really loving this book, and my boys now ask for it often.  It's such a simple tale---a father and son riding an old car at night on a remote wooded road, and a train going  by--they stop at the crossing and watch it.  However, it is told so well  and the pictures are so peaceful (except when the train is going right by!)  that you feel relaxed just reading it, and wish that somehow you could hop  into the book and go to that long ago night and place.  My 5 and 2 year  olds listen with interest over and over to this book!	2000-05-26
US	53058973	R3HCU8VZEVDR1X	0802774520	463582037	Steam Train Ride	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Enjoyable book, especially for heavy duty train lovers!	My 2 boys really enjoy this book, and love all the details of running a steam train.  I'm not really sure, however, that kids who are not extreme train lovers would like it as much---there isn't much going on except the  viewing of the train and all the train related signs and stations! But  there are plenty of big time train lovers out there! We've been to  Strasburg, where this is set, and this book makes the boys want to go back!	2000-05-26
US	53058973	R3ODSGR8UK6LXV	051770000X	892179656	Ordinary Resurrections	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Wonderful book, inspiring and very sad at the same time	I think it's very telling that Jonathan Kovol is friends withFred Rogers (one of my heroes) and talks about that in this book, ashis writing reminds me of how Mister Rogers talks---his extremely strong feelings of love and caring and understanding of the children he is friends with (for that is what he is, friends, not an observer) comes through in every sentence.  It's inspiring to read about the lives these children are living---how they manage to have a happy childhood and remain innocent and caring in such a tough environment, but you know the road ahead for them is not going to be an easy one. If you don't feel outraged after reading this book about the state of the public schools in big cities, you haven't read too carefully.  And the fault is not where so many like to put it--with the teachers, with the students, with the parents, the fault is with a society where people are getting richer and richer but there is still not enough money to have reasonable class sizes in cities, to restore music and arts and doctors in the schools taken away 20 years ago, and to have a graduation rate not as shameful as the one where most of these kids will go to high school.  This book really moved me and I am going to work harder to improve my childrens' urban schools.	2000-05-24
US	53058973	R15UEXWOCJQADK	0062720732	851944626	The New Lifetime Reading Plan: The Classical Guide to World Literature, Revised and Expanded	Books	5	18	21	N	N	Informative and enjoyable even if you don't follow the plan!	I passed this book by several times as I thought it was something different than it is!  Although I've read many works included here, there are some I will probably never read.  However, I enjoyed learning about  those works, and I love the tone of this book---not overly serious, with  the author's biases showing through on purpose---it has a real point of  view!  I wished that almost every entry was longer---the writing has a tone  of being written by a real insider---almost gossipy, in a good way!  Although I didn't intend this to happen, the book acheived part of its goal  in adding several works to my lifetime &quot;to-read&quot; list.  It also  served as a great review of a lot of the reading I did as an English major.  Really a lot of fun to read!	2000-05-22
US	53058973	RBAAF7MAG1L23	0374157065	503232720	Flu: The Story of the Great Influenza Pandemic of 1918 and the Search for the Virus That Caused It	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Very well written, like a detective story, but unfinished!	Until almost the very end of this book, I would have given it 5 stars.  It's so well written, and tells such a fascinating story.  I had heard of the 1918 epidemic, as I had a great-uncle who got the flu and later got  related Parkinson's Disease and died from that, but I had no idea how  terrible it was, and how much it seemed to have been forgotten or pushed  out of people's minds.  The incredible story of the search for the virus  responsible was so well done, and I loved learning about the personalities  behind the hunt.  However, the book seemed to end extremely suddenly, with  quite a few breakthroughs set up to be answered, and us being told the  answers were just about to be found, but then we are never told the  results.  It's as if you were watching a TV news show and they said as they  always do &quot;after the break, the incredible ending to the story&quot;  and then they never came back from break!  I know stories like this really  never do end, but in this case it's very specific quests that we are told  are about to be revealed, and then the book ends!  It almost seemed like it  was rushed out, perhaps before the author intended either, to hit the  market at a certain time.  However, it's still definately worth a read.	2000-05-18
US	53058973	R2VJEYPPMAG477	0375401946	29396825	MotherKind	Books	3	4	6	N	N	A mixture---some characters enjoyable, good plot, odd style	Even just after reading this book, I am really mixed on how much I liked it!  The basic plot premise was a very interesting one---dealing with a mother's dying in the same year you are dealing with being a mother for the  first time.  Some characters were well drawn, especially the young stepsons  and the main character Kate.  It's hard to have believable children in a  good, but Jonah and Sam were really well done.  The parts of the book that  were written in a fairly straightforward well were also very good---what it  is like to start out with nursing, how it feels to wake up over and over to  care for a demanding baby, etc.  However, the style of this book is quite  odd and not one I like.  Each chapter starts with a long flashback in  italics--remembering a visit to Kate's mother when she was first diagnosed  with cancer and when Kate was telling her she was pregnant.  The parts of  the story told in the present are told in a circular way---you never find  out the whole story of an incident until it's told over and over, with a  bit more revealed each time.  Minor happenings in Kate's life (especially a  few shopping trips) are described in minute detail---I think these parts  are supposed to reveal more than is said on the surface, but for me  sometimes they didn't.  Also, the book has several minor characters that to  me muddle the story and don't add much---the babysitter Amy, her sister  Hannah, the neighbor Camille, several home health aides at the end---all  these people have interesting stories, but there are just too many of them  for me to care about all of them!  All this being said, I did finish the  book and cared about the ending, and I think the story was a good one to  have told---as I am sure there are other's in Kate's situation, and in fact  I had a friend who went through something very similar.  I guess a  potential reader would have to decide how much the distracting elements  would bother them!	2000-05-15
US	53058973	R31ODAZC2664HY	0517888491	774470255	Keeping Kids Reading: How to Raise Avid Readers in the Video Age	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Full of extremely practical advice on raising a reader	If you love reading the way I do, there is very little more important to you than raising children who love to read.  I thought this book was wonderful.  The author is obviously passionate about getting kids hooked on  reading, and believes that you should do just about anything to acheive  this goal.  She points out how many parents that don't hesitate to spend  tons of money on toys and clothes balk at buying kids books, and points out  how books can be found at lawn sales and book sales by the ton for very  cheap, and how money spent on books is an investment of the best kind.  She  advocates letting kids read what they enjoy reading, and letting that lead  to reading you find more worthwhile, but wants us to keep in mind that just  getting them to READ is the goal.  Her kids loved Richie Rich comics (as  did I as a kid!)  I love her writing style---it's very honest and direct.  A great book!	2000-05-15
US	53058973	R95Y41UC115IQ	0385324111	916427916	Glued to the Set: The 60 Television Shows and Events That Made Us Who We Are Today	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Great to read a book that takes TV seriously	I really enjoyed reading a book that seriously examined the effects TV had and has on our lives, and reading in depth analysis of why certain shows hit it big, and why some shows are still loved today while other shows that  were extremely popular in their time are now forgotten.  However, I  couldn't help but feeling now and then that the author sometimes just took  the opposite viewpoint from everyone else in order to seem like he was not  in any way a follower, or to prove how different and more insightful his  viewpoints were than other TV reviewers!  For example, he seems like have a  much higher opinion of Home Improvement than of Seinfeld, he discounts  Saturday Night Live as having had little influence on popular culture and  so forth.  This didn't really distract from my enjoyment of this book,  however!  I like to read opinions other than the mainstream ones!  I also  really enjoyed reading about how he picked which 60 TV events or shows to  profile.	2000-05-11
US	53058973	R24F9LPKV9JSJA	069001287X	5590370	Anno's Counting Book	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Will really get your child thinking about numbers	Unlike some counting books which just give a given number of objects matched with the numeral, this book presents numbers in all sorts of ways--the numerals, counting blocks, and many different sets to count on each 2 page spread.  The book also teaches progressions---it goes from 1-12  and each page corresponds to a month starting with January---something I  didn't even notice until a few readings with my kids, and each page also  moves ahead in time, from a village just started to a village with all  sorts of buildings, from a track being built to a track that looks like  it's no longer being used.  There is so much to see and think about, all  done wordlessly so you are really able to use the number part of your brain  instead of the verbal part---and that is great for some kids that might not  be as verbal as others, but who has number skills!	2000-05-05
US	53058973	R1EJY1YXHTBW5G	0385490623	181024150	What are the Seven Wonders of the World?: And 100 Other Great Cultural Lists--Fully Explicated	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Almost everyone could find an entry that fascinated them!	This is the kind of book that is really not meant to be read through, but rather browsed.  I am the type that tries to read through books not meant to be read through, and I must admit I found some entries a little dry.  However, others were amoung the most fascinating reading I've ever done.  My favorite was probably the title entry on the seven ancient wonders.  I  had NO idea that the pyramids were that huge!  I also loved the entry on  Henry VIII's wives.  Very well written, scholary, and eye opening!	2000-05-02
US	53058973	R1UP7IW6UVZX7O	0030765153	155429153	Penny Candy	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Few books have this much atmosphere	Something about this book is truly haunting and spooky, and memorable.  It's a fairly simple tale---a group of children go buy penny candy after the last day of school, and each one is transformed while eating their  choice of candy to another place, or another state of being!  I can  remember myself the special feeling of having a paper bag of penny candy of  all kinds to eat---each piece seemed special and exciting in its own way,  and this book captures that feeling.  My sister said this book scared her  son, and I think it is a tiny bit scary, as it's a little bizarre and the  candy shop owner a little frightening, but in a way that makes the book  that much more memorable.	2000-04-29
US	53058973	R1CVBNOVTQEPKS	0823409759	444600332	The Shrinking of Treehorn	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Bizarre in a wonderful way, great pictures by Gorey	This is a book I loved as a child, because it was so bizarre and interesting and mysterious!  I don't think the book is really meant to have a message---it's meant more just to be a strange and memorable tale!  I love all the little details about Treehorn we find out---that he has 56  different favorite TV shows, what his cereal send-away collection consists  of, etc!  Even my 2 year old was enchanted by the pictures---he called a  page with several odd dogs on it &quot;monsters&quot; and said &quot;I like  those scary monster dogs!&quot;  My 5 year old loved how the bus driver  thought Treehorn was Treehorn's younger brother, also called Treehorn!  Read it because it's fun and great to look at!	2000-04-28
US	53058973	RG10PH1PQSAVS	1563977230	930064564	Bus Route to Boston	Books	5	2	2	N	N	What a neat book--especially for bus lovers and Boston folks	My sons and I just love this book!  It's about a bus trip to Boston in the recent past, complete with trips to Filene's Basement, Haymarket fruit stalls and Bailey's Ice Cream.  The pictures are wonderful---the houses shown look just like so many working class Boston suburbs and have so much  character.  I'm sure anyone who has taken the bus into Boston (or any city  really) will be able to remember through the book the thrill that it can be  when you're a kid, and how enjoyable everyday little treats can be.  Lots  of fun to read and look at!	2000-04-27
US	53058973	R2JVY7TALRD4QX	068811573X	423438311	Lost on a Mountain in Maine	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A tale you will not be able to put down for a second!	Although I grew up in Maine and had heard of this book as a child, somehow I managed to not read it until recently.  I literally could not put it down until I finished it.  Donn's survival in the face of incredible hardship is a story that is extremely harrowing and intense.  It shows how the body and  mind react when pushed to the very edge of death.  I defy anyone not to be  moved by the ending!	2000-04-26
US	53058973	R346HXLUUJ4P5V	1853025771	70584129	Asperger's Syndrome: A Guide for Parents and Professionals	Books	5	57	61	N	Y	If someone you love has Aspergers, you need this book	Not many books can truly be called &quot;must-have&quot;, but if you have a child with Aspergers, teach a child with Aspergers or deal in any way with a child with Aspergers, you NEED this book.  I find myself referring so often back to it to help me understand my 5 year old son.  I think my  favorite part of this book is that it's positive---it doesn't gloss over  the tough parts of life with AS, but it leaves you feeling the author truly  likes and admires those with AS.  I have lend this book to all my son's  teachers, my parents and many others.  It's amazing how it deals with the  big issues, like school, dealing with changes and socialization, and even  helped me understand little issues like why my son is obsessed with Thomas  the Tank Engine!	2000-04-26
US	53058973	R3AQ8NLG9BQUKS	0060976519	568183119	The Language Instinct: How the Mind Creates Language	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Fascinating and entertaining book--convinces you he's right!	I have a strong interest in how language develops, and am fascinated with the debate about whether language is instinctive or learned.  When you finish this book, if you are like me, you will feel quite sure it's instinctive, as the author is extremely persuasive.  However, I found  myself wishing a few times he would be a little less dismissive of other  views than his own!  This book is very well written and humerous, and  unlike many books about language I have read, it doesn't simply dryly tell  about a million studies.	2000-04-26
US	53058973	RNT2L925S6AAC	0440498058	598774312	A Wrinkle in Time (The Time Quartet)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Full of images,ideas and characters you will always remember	In my middle childhood, I read this book over and over and over.  Like most truly classic children's books, this book is not afraid of scaring children or overwhelming them with powerful ideas.  The images of the planet Camazotz are so powerful I can instantly bring them to mind, even  after probably 15 years since my last reading---the endlessly long room  that Meg walks down, the street with all the identical mothers and  children, Meg's way of resisting IT.  Meg and Charles Wallace are children  unlike most you can find in books---very outside the mainstream.  This is  the best of the 3 books in the series, but all three are definately very  worth reading.	2000-04-26
US	53058973	R23359JLO6JCRQ	0316190640	389408036	The Family Nobody Wanted	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Should be in print--what a wonderful book!	I hope some publishers sees all the reviews of this book and puts it back in print!  I think I must have read this book about 100 times as a child.  I haven't read it in years, as I no longer own it, but I still think of it often.  I'm sure this book was an inspiration to many people to adopt  children that &quot;nobody wanted&quot;, but in addition to being  inspirational, it's great to read---full of details of life with a houseful  of kids and not much money!  So many details are still fresh in my  mind---the Dosses eating that can of snake meat when they were ALL out of  other food, the Christmas they were given all kinds of great toys for the  kids, how the oldest son kept wanting a brother just his age...and many  more!  If you can get ahold of this book, you will like it!	2000-04-26
US	53058973	R2UMWA426NBFYL	081312123X	664832359	Creeker: A Woman's Journey	Books	5	14	14	N	N	I can't think of a book I've read recently I enjoyed more	This book is written in such a unique and wonderful style.  The author has no pretense at all---she is totally honest and straightforward and writes as if she is talking to a close friend.  I think she is able to tell the  story of her Appalachian childhood with a perspective gained from being on  the &quot;outside&quot; in body for many years, but not in her heart.  I  feel like I learned much about that region that I had never known, and many  of my misconceptions were exposed to me!  I especially liked that this book  did not stop when her childhood was over, but told of the rest of her life  up to this date, so you were able to see how her further life was  influenced by her childhood and its shaping of her attitudes.  This book  has other stories to tell, too---how it feels to be a golf widow, how you  can end a marriage but not the friendship it was based on, how someone who  never planned to do so moves up in the academic world, and more!  Books  like this are such a gem as they preserve forever a way of life that is  probably not going to be here in another 50 years.  You will really enjoy  the time you spend reading this book!	2000-04-17
US	53058973	R259WB1OSD3ZZJ	0786707208	136897108	Shadow Child: An Apprenticeship in Love and Loss	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A moving and important book, not my favorite writing style	This is a book that I am sure will be very important to many women.  I admire the author for having the courage to tell her story of losing her first son, Tate, and how this affected her life and her mothering of her  second son Jacob.  I also admire her honesty in talking about parenting  Jacob---especially talking about his schooling, and how she hoped that he  would fit in and become part of the community partly to help her also feel  more part of it, and how she came to see that homeschooling for a while was  the best choice for him.  This book, however, is written in a style that is  not my personal favorite, although it is very well written.  It is quite  poetic and lyrical, and at times I found myself wishing very much that  events were being told about in a more straighforward way, and that some  areas were more clearly explained--more about whey they decided to move to  Canada, how her husband's pottery business became so popular, etc.  I am  sure that not everyone would feel as I do, and in fact that many people  would love this writing style---full of striking metaphors and nature  descriptions.  This book deserves wide reading.	2000-04-09
US	53058973	R2XD9U3WGC1LBC	0345424573	892229721	Raising Cain: Protecting the Emotional Life of Boys	Books	3	41	45	N	N	Made me think and worry more than most any book I've read	I must say this book really shook me up.  As a mother of 2 boys, I was upset to read about how cruel boys can be to each other as teens, and by how closed off they become from their emotions. The book did a wonderful  job of pointing out the scary parts of raising boys, but in my opinion  anyway did not do enough to answer the question they raise---how can we  prevent all this awful stuff from happening?  The advice given is what most  parents would try to do anyway---keep the lines of communication open, be  there but don't be smothering, etc.  I would like to know more about how  specifically I can help my sons weather childhood and grow into happy  adults.  After reading this book, I think one could get the impulse the  only good way to do this is keep them home at all times away from all the  cruelty!	2000-04-02
US	53058973	R2DEOJE551HETR	0192781510	42776550	The Young Oxford Book of Nasty Endings	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very well chosen group of stories	I enjoyed almost every story in this book---a rarity for a book of short stories.  They were all well written, and all had an ending that either you  would not have seen coming, or if you did, you still found it a bit of a  shock.  I loved the story which featured teenagers from different eras in  history meeting, and then seeing a young person that looked like he was  from prehistoric times---until something tells them otherwise, and the  truth is quite a shock!  This would be a good collection to upgrade the  quality a little of what kids are reading if they are into horror like  Goosebumps---stories with some substance but just as gripping---in fact  probably much more so.	2000-03-16
US	53058973	R27H3O0J337ZEG	0395843685	688424819	The Best American Short Stories of the Century	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Overall a good selection--some stories that are outstanding	All in all I really enjoyed my reading of this collection.  A few stories will stay with me always, and they were not the ones I expected to like the best when starting them--which I think is the key to a really good story!  The Ledge  by Lawrence Sargent Hall stands out especially---one of the most  chilling and realistic accounts of a horrifying happening you can imagine.  Another standout was The Rotifer by Mary Ladd Gavell.  From the notes I  found this was her only published story, published after her death.  I wish  this wasn't the case---she writes a story about seeing what is about to go  wrong and being unable to stop it in a way I will never forget.  Updike  seems to avoid including the stories you expect to read, which I can  understand, but in a way I'd like a collection which included a few more of  what we think of as the classic stories of the century.  Also, the stories  almost without an exception are quite dark, sad, depressing and/or about  sickness and death.  Why not a few more O'Henry collection types  stories---maybe not quite as high brow, but I'm sure there are a FEW short  stories this century with merit that are not quite so downbeat!  However, I  was glad to have spent the time reading this selection, and I felt it was  well done overall.	2000-02-29
US	53058973	RG1C76B8TBR7N	0152022856	965334895	Kipper's Book of Colors	Books	5	4	4	N	N	First book my younger son really fell in love with	This whole little series of books (opposites, weather, colors and numbers) is really well done, but this one is special to me as it's the first book my younger son (age 2) has really fallen in love with.  He took it into his  nap with him today!  He loves best the page about orange, where Kipper is  drinking what looks like orange soda with a very long crazy straw.  I like  the teddy bear page for brown, with all shapes of cute teddy bears!  I'm  glad the TV show led us to Kipper books!	2000-02-25
US	53058973	RSZV29B9ERFLL	0670451495	849728292	Make Way for Ducklings (Viking Kestrel picture books)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A classic that today's kids still really love	Classics get to be that way for a reason, because they are great books!  My sons just love this book, as I did as a child.  The wonderful story of how Mr. and Mrs. Mallard found a home is really fun to read.  I also like  it that this book is set in the city---it's hard to find good picture books  for city dwelling kids.  Many kid's book seem to assume that everyone lives  in idealized suburbia.  My older son loves the names of the  ducklings---kids getting close to reading seem to love to play with rhymes,  and it's fun to say Jack, Kack, Lack and on up to Quack!  I wish you happy  reading of this one!	2000-02-25
US	53058973	R1KTS0P7T1BLQ5	0525446443	37286584	The Wheels on the Bus	Books	5	3	3	N	N	My son literally loved this book to pieces	When my older son was about 2, this was his favorite book in the world.  He literally loved it to pieces.  This is really so much more than the traditional pop-up type book.  The action that happens from pulling taps or  lifting flaps is quite elaborate.  The pictures are chock full of details  of the kind that kids love.  There are lots of little on-going stories to  follow, including one with cats that my son liked best.  I am now going to  have to buy a new copy---my younger son is the age my older son was when he  loved this!  Most every kid that has been to any kind of preschool or story  hour knows this song, and this is the best book version of the song out  there!	2000-02-25
US	53058973	R373XIASPVVXIP	0671747908	811244228	Whisper from the Woods	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Unbelievably interesting and detailed pictures	I read this book to my older son hundreds of times, and I think every time I found something new in the pictures!  They are fabulous.  The woods shown here are full of creatures, all with such incredible details.  It must have  been something like my 50th reading I noticed that there were little forest  people in some of the pictures!  The story never scared my son, although it  does deal with the life cycle including death, but it is done in a natural  and beautiful way.  I must admit my husband was a bit bothered by that  theme in a picture book, and others might be too, but I really wasn't, as  it was presented as part of life.  A very unusual and special book.	2000-02-25
US	53058973	R14GOMIG4YKUFP	0689814984	797835789	Numbers (Razzle Dazzle Books)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Really fun little book to read with your little one!	This book is so sparkly and fun!  Each number has that number of items on the page, with some part of the item all sparkly with shiny paper.  My two year old loves the one robot and the 3 blocks best, and I think the 10  goldfish are really pretty.  This book will really get kids interested and  motivated to learn numbers and count.	2000-02-24
US	53058973	R5UOD5XONYAHO	0789429160	567981970	Touch and Feel: Farm	Books	5	55	58	N	Y	Much better than any other touch and feel book I've found	We have 4 books in this great series, and I am really impressed with their quality.  They don't have tiny patches of semi-touchable fabric, they have BIG areas of very soft (or rough, or leathery, or whatever) feelable  material.  The chick in this one is all covered with a really chick-like  soft yellow fuzz, the sheep is covered with real feeling woolly material,  and so on.  Fun for babies and ages on up to adult!	2000-02-24
US	53058973	R19TVB547PAZV9	0152013628	643492046	Kipper's Snowy Day	Books	5	5	5	N	N	This book made my boys very eager for a real life snowy day!	We discovered Kipper by way of the Nick Jr. TV show, and were very glad to find how very well done the Kipper books are.  This simple but very pleasing tale of Kipper and Tiger enjoying the snow really is a popular one  in our house.  They love hearing about the dogs rolling down the hill,  Tiger being sure the snow will be gone soon, and the dogs making their  version of snow animals.  Recently when we got a good sized snow, both of  my boys acted out a lot of what they had heard in this book in the real  snow!	2000-02-20
US	53058973	R2XPDOP74BZ89O	0064406911	801566703	Bachelor Girl (Little House Sequel)	Books	5	28	34	N	N	A wonderful end to a wonderful series	If anyone out there has hesitated to read the Rose Wilder Lane entries into the extended Little  House family as they felt as I once did they would be pale copies of the original series, please don't hesitate any longer!  This series has a voice of its own, and is very, very well  written.  I wish it was longer.  I loved this last book.  Rose is very  different than Laura and in fact I think most women of her day.  She is  very strong willed and intelligent, and determined to make her own way in  the world.  I was especially struck by the descriptions of the early day of  her life both in Kansas City and San Francisco---just how lonely and  desolate life could be for a career girl starting out in those days, and  how strong she was to persevere.  Her growing awareness in this book that  the life she always saw for herself---as a contented wife to Paul in a  small world---is not really what she wants is very well done.  The message  sent to girls who might read this book is powerful.  I also very much liked  the way this series &quot;grew up&quot; like the original series.  This  last book is quite adult, though certainly not inappropriate for those who  also read the early ones.	2000-02-19
US	53058973	R22IGBF6HHEU4Q	0679867341	607759855	ARTHUR GOES TO SCHOO	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Like most big lift the flap books, fun and educational	It seems like most all of this kind of big lift the flap books are a little similar---a page about letters, one about numbers, an opposite page  and so forth, but they are also all pretty well done and big child  pleasers!  My 2 sons really like this one.  Their favorite part is the  &quot;book within a book&quot; of The Three Little Pigs.  It got my older  son interested in that fairy tale, which we then read in different  versions, and then in fairy tales in general!  One thing to note---the  characters of Arthur and Francine and all of the gang seem younger in this  book than in the show, more like preschool versions of themselves.	2000-02-17
US	53058973	R2SF4MYNYKY51I	0892720166	504266980	We Took to the Woods	Books	5	164	166	N	N	A wonderful, enjoyable and important book	This book is one of the most enjoyable to read you will ever find. It is written in such a clear, humorous and timeless style that you would swear it was written yesterday instead of in 1942. Each chapter answers a  question that would arise upon hearing that one had decided to live in the  deep woods of Maine---how you do school your children?  How do you keep in  touch with society?  How do you keep house?  There are pictures and the  kind of nitty gritty details we all like to read!  In addition to just  being great to read, I think this book is a very important one.  I would  say it had a part in starting at least two trends.  One is the back to the  land movement.  At the time it was written, you just simply didn't decide  to get away from it all and live in the woods!  I think this book, which  was extremely popular when it came out, put some unique ideas in a lot of  heads and may have had a big part in giving people ideas about alternative  ways of living.  Also, I think it's one of the first autobiograpical books  of its type---written plainly but with humor about a unique way of living.  I think this book, which in my knowledge has never been out of print, is  really one of the key non-fiction works of the 20th century.  But don't  read it for that, read it because it's fun to read and you will love it!	2000-02-16
US	53058973	R3VL1RKLZR45EG	0446524263	781433214	Jackie, Ethel, Joan: Women of Camelot	Books	4	17	23	N	N	A warm and well researched look at the Kennedy wives	I liked a lot of things about this book.  One of the biggest was that the writer actually seemed to like his subjects, and not be just interested in shocking people with lurid details about them, or making them look as bad  as possible.  He focused on relationships between women, and on their  relationships with their husbands, especially on how infidelity affected  them, and how the tragedies in their life did.  The book seems to be  extremely well researched and documented.  My only quibble---at times it  seems like this book could have used closer editing.  Some stories, phrases  and facts are repeated several times, and the structure of the book is a  bit odd--at times chronological, but at others jumping back and forth and  telling things out of sequence.  But this was not enough to really greatly  hinder my enjoyment of it.  I especially liked getting a bit more  sympathetic look at Ethel than in another book I'd read---The Other Mrs.  Kennedy, which was almost all negative.	2000-02-09
US	53058973	RA0ALXRHEYH3N	0920668372	195719049	Love You Forever	Books	4	4	5	N	N	My son loves this, I find it a bit odd but do appreciate it!	My sister warned me not to get this book!  She said all kids love to hear it over and over, and I would quickly find it annoying.  She was right!  My son asks for this book all the time.  He loves so many parts of  it---especially the 2 year old putting a watch in the toilet and the same  boy older being loud and messy.  I find some parts of it quite odd,  however!  The mother in some ways seems a bit over the top---I don't like I  would like my mother climbing into my window with a ladder and picking me  up when I was asleep!  However, I do appreciate the message.  You do love  your children all through their life.  I think it's an important message  especially for mothers of sons---as society seems to find it less  acceptable to show your love for your older sons than for younger sons or  daughters.  It's also good to have a children's book that shows  aging---both of the mother and the son.  So many kid's books are stuck in  perpetual childhood.  So go ahead and get this---it's worth the possible  annoyance!	2000-02-09
US	53058973	R1QYALT3H9XZJ5	0140501738	404665928	Corduroy	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A true classic---a book that stays with you over the years	For some reason I had overlooked reading Corduroy to my sons until just recently, at ages 5 and 2.  They both loved it---listened to it spellbound and asked to hear it two more times in a row!  I think this book speaks to  something that many of us have as a dream---to see the night world of  places we usually only see in the day, like a big department store.  Most  kids can also relate to having a very special bear or toy, and the scene of  Corduroy home at last in Lisa's cozy room with his own little bed is so  comforting and happy!  I was taken back to hearing this myself many times  as a child!	2000-02-08
US	53058973	R1S43UTRIOBUMM	0140508430	424611693	Starting School (Picture Puffin)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Detailed and informative pictures and text	The pictures are detailed and interesting, showing kids doing just about anything you could do in the early weeks of school---circle, outdoor play, lunch, reading, assembly and even fighting! The text takes you step by step from the first day of school to Christmas break.  A note---this school  seems like a private religious school, as the children do pray and put on a  play about Baby Jesus.  One annoying part is the repeated repetition of a  whole list of children's names---I am not sure what the point of this  is---each time they are referring to the group of children they list each  of the nine names---tiring when reading aloud!  But an enjoyable good and a  good introduction to preschool or kindergarten.	2000-02-08
US	53058973	R1PSDICGWC1O4P	0816730288	597036125	Wanted: Perfect Parents	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A lot of fun to read and look at!	My sons both laughed their heads off at this one! The pictures are just great---especially of Gregory's room after it hadn't been cleaned in a good long while.  My older son loved it that Gregory built tunnels and bridges  with all his room mess---it's his own dream to be able to use all our  furniture to do that!  This book could be a good conversation starter about  what perfect parents really would be for your child.	2000-02-08
US	53058973	R2O6MLE5LHX7CM	0140559949	969283048	Max's Dragon Shirt (Max and Ruby)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Lots of fun to read---interesting complex pictures	I am a huge Rosemary Wells fan, and this book is delightful as are all her books.  Every child can relate to wanting a particular item as much as Max wants his dragon shirt!  The pictures in this book are quite complex---full of the hustle and bustle of a busy department store, with all kinds of  different folks with different expressions--my boys really enjoy trying to  figure out what everyone is thinking!  I like seeing Ruby try on all the  dresses---some too tight, some too big and some just plain too ugly!  As  usual, Max in his own way beats Ruby at her own game!	2000-02-04
US	53058973	R2JZM53KER167R	0064405443	145946436	Betsy's Wedding (Betsy-Tacy)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A perfect ending to the wonderful Betsy-Tacy series	The whole Betsy Tacy series is a triumph---some of the best reading there  is.  Like few others series (the Little House books are the other that  comes to mind) we truly can read and watch Betsy grow from a little 5 year  old to a married woman, and grow along with her.  As a little girl, I read  the early books in this series, and didn't know there were more.  You can  imagine my delight when I discovered the high school years and beyond were  also part of the continuing story! In this book (as you can guess) Betsy  gets married, but so does Tib!  I like it that Betsy's wedding is not the  end of the book--we also get to see her get started on married life during  the diffecult WWI period.  I remember the minute I finished this book. I  had a feeling of happiness but also sadness that never again would I read  something new for the first time about Betsy, Tacy, Tib, Joe, Julia,  Margaret and all the rest!  But the last lines were done so well--they  looked to the past and into the future and made me feel that although this  was all that was written about them, they continued to exist somewhere out  there in the land that wonderful characters in wonderful books live on in!  If you have never read this series, I envy you!  Get all the books, read  them, and you will remember and make them part of your life forever.	2000-02-03
US	53058973	R1M6BKFCQOV6VO	0679446966	319058774	Papa's Cord	Books	2	0	2	N	N	Weak characters, predictable plot	I left reading this book not feeling like I really knew any of the characters, and especially didn't even get a real feel for the relationship between Josie and her father, althought that was supposed to be the main theme of the book.  The plot was extremely predictable---it was ironic that  this book reads much like a TV docudrama, the kind the main characters  write for.  You knew what would happen as a result of Josie's affair, you  knew what would happen when she ran home to tell Daddy her exciting news,  etc!  So many details seem thrown in here just to sort of name drop---the  jobs her husband Gus gets, the famous people her father knows, the  expensive brands of clothes.  I could not relate in any way to this book,  not even to the supposed side theme of infertility, which is poorly drawn  and doesn't really have a resolution.  I did read all the way through,  mainly looking for something interesting to happen, but at least I cared  enough to finish the book.  I think with some severe editing there would  have been a much better book here.	2000-02-01
US	53058973	R1U1PR4Q052FUH	0140564152	604243378	Max and Ruby in Pandora's Box	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Great way to get kids interested in Greek myths	My 2 boys, ages 5 and 2, really enjoy this book.  It uses a universal sibling problem---one touching another's property---to set up a retelling of Pandora's Box.  In this version, Pandora's Box contains bugs, which are then eaten by a big spider---a real child pleaser touch!  My older son says  he likes this book because &quot;it's one book inside another book&quot;.  He loves the idea of a story within a story, and gets excited that at the  end &quot;Max and Ruby are back again!&quot;	2000-02-01
US	53058973	RJNLGRTE3PMSG	0140545379	480398455	Shy Charles (Picture Puffins)	Books	4	7	11	N	Y	A interesting look at a painfully shy mouse	Charles is not just a little shy, he is EXTREMELY shy, so shy he really doesn't seem to talk at all.  As usual, Rosemary Wells is not afraid to have a hero who is quite out of the mainstream.  Unlike in most of her  books, Charles' parents are not very understanding of him, and seem to be  at the point of being quite fed up with his shyness, which can make him  seem impolite.  However, people in the community seem to understand he's a  special little mouse who will come out of his shell when he's ready.  An  unusual picture book which makes you think about how children who are not  outgoing are treated.	2000-01-31
US	53058973	R2J8642S3WGL77	0531068218	534827627	Friday's Journey	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A good book for subway lovers	My sons really like this book, mainly because it's hard to find books about subways and the kids who love them!  The artist does a good job showing how it looks and feels to be on the subway.  The writing is a  little tough for young kids to understand, however---the message about  divorce is pretty much lost on my 5 and 2 year old, but maybe this book is  aimed a bit older kids.	2000-01-30
US	53058973	R31NJJM7L9F17S	0385326661	641571331	Ties that Bind, Ties that Break	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Very well written look into early 1900s China	I'm very interested in 20th century Chinese history, and of course had heard of foot binding, but this book taught me a great deal about that custom, and told the fictional but realistic story of a girl who refused foot binding and how that affected her future.  Interesting in the look at  how both men and women kept this horrible custom going over time.  I also  wish this book had been longer!	2000-01-30
US	53058973	RNYTPCSWREL1M	0152014292	144915899	Hush, Little Baby: A Folk Song with Pictures	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	Great pictures to go with a song that is a real favorite	My older son just loves the Hush Little Baby lullaby, and so this book was a must for us.  We just love the pictures!  The artist is great at showing emotions on faces.  You can really tell how everyone is feeling.  I think  this book would be a good one for a family expecting a new baby, as it's  one of the few books that admits that babies can be tough---they can cry a  lot and be hard to comfort---but also shows the whole family working  together to try to make the baby happy.  It would set a great tone for the  baby to be!  Really a nice book.	2000-01-30
US	53058973	RMVLU5MAEY4D6	0395181550	995930729	Katy and the Big Snow	Books	5	22	23	N	N	A classic that enchants my son	For some reason it always surprises me a little that my older son loves  classic children's books like this one so much.  It shouldn't---they are  classics for a reason!  This book has so many great little details---the  map of the town, the images of the town slowly being opened up to activity  by being plowed out, and of course the train and tracks which makes the  book for my son! He loves the idea also that Katy is tired at the end of  the big day---it's started real discussions about whether machines can  really be tired, and I think helped him understand how authors can  fictionalize things to give you a feeling for the themes and ideas in a  book.	2000-01-24
US	53058973	R3HS6ZM8MF535Q	0965498506	262706025	When Pregnancy Isn't Perfect : A Layperson's Guide To Complications In Pregnancy	Books	5	6	7	N	N	This book saved my sanity during my &quot;not perfect&quot; pregnancy	This book fills a need and fills it so well.  I read this book early in my pregnancy, although at that time I had no idea I would have a tough time later on.  When I developed severe preeclampsia at 31 weeks, I asked my  husband to go to the library right away and get this book back, and for  days I read and re-read this book.  Most pregnancy books seem to dismiss  severe pregnancy problems as unlikely and too scary to talk much about.  It's so helpful to have a source like this which talks in a realistic yet  encouraging way about the very real and scary things that can go wrong with  a pregnancy.	2000-01-22
US	53058973	RIX56029FNSIJ	0394820371	595713080	The Phantom Tollbooth	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Very thought provoking---a very original fantasy world	As a child, this was one of my favorite books.  I must have read it 50 times.  The author is so good at creating scenes which are so fantastic yet so well drawn you can picture them delightfully!  A few example---having to climb infinity stairs, catching an unsaid word in your mouth to use later,  a statistical half boy from the average family of 2 1/2 kids, and  especially the wonderful thought of somehow coming home and having that  tollbooth in your room, ready to set up and use!  I like it that no  explanation is ever given of how Milo gets the tollbooth, or who gives it  to him---it's just a visitor from the fantasy world that as a child you  always somehow feel is just out of your reach---out there someplace.	2000-01-21
US	53058973	R323L8GFQ6IJ4P	089919401X	487102272	The Three Bears	Books	4	16	19	N	Y	A straighforward telling of the tale	This book passed the toughest test our household has to offer---my two sons asked for it to be read several times in one day.  The pictures are vivid and clear and the story is told without fancy added details---just  the facts of the fairy tale!  I must admit I didn't find it that overly  gripping, but I think that's because this isn't the most fascinating of  fairy tales---but something about it appeals to kids---the bears?  The 3  sizes of everything?  Who knows?  Whatever it is, it's a hit with my boys!	2000-01-21
US	53058973	R29SZO53A7H0FM	0700607137	80530232	Laura Ingalls Wilder's Little Town: Where History and Literature Meet	Books	4	10	14	N	N	Very historical and scholarly	This book looks at various historical aspects of the world Laura Ingalls Wilder wrote about, and focuses especially on one of her books, Little Town on the Prairie, and on the town of De Smet, SD.  I found it very  interesting finding out more about the town that was the focus of Wilder's  later books.  This book is done as a series of essays, and at times repeats  information from one essay to the next.  However, it is well written and  obviously very well researched, and adult fans of Wilder who want to find  out more about her and more especially the larger world and time she lived  in will enjoy this book.	2000-01-19
US	53058973	R1MVDIVP6Q0C94	039589901X	113971624	Three Little Kittens Book & Cassette (Paul Galdone Classics)	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	A very appealing and well done little book	My sons have requested this be read to them about 10 times just today!  As all of Galdone's fairy tales or nursery rhymes, this is very true to the traditional telling.  The special part here is the living, clever and  detailed pictures.  They show such neat details as a kitchen with catnip in  every form---chopped, minced, blended, etc---in a spice cabinet!  The cats'  expressions are priceless---you wouldn't guess cats could be so expressive.	2000-01-19
US	53058973	R284C997RD2UZB	0807510971	970712887	The Cat Came Back: A Traditional Song	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	Very funny and detailed illustrations	The song this book is based on is my older son's favorite, so this book was a &quot;must have&quot; for us. We love the book's pictures---they are very comical and detailed---it's hilarious seeing how the cat has taken over poor Mr. Johnson's house.  The version of the song in the book is,  however, is quite different than I have heard it other places---it's quite  toned down.  This is not a bad thing, as the version on the tape my son  listens to is actually quite gruesome.  The book also has much fewer  verses, but it does include my son's favorite verse, with the train!  This  book would be a winner with folk song lovers or cat lovers!	2000-01-18
US	53058973	R1L1EWGVUMJ06I	0767903811	213092180	I'm a Stranger Here Myself: Notes on Returning to America After Twenty Years Away	Books	4	52	59	N	N	Some parts of this book are classic Bryson, others not!	This book, which consists of columns Bryson wrote for an English paper after moving to the US, is a mixed success, in my eyes.  Bryson is one of my favorite authors, and some pieces were classic, classic Bryson---so  funny you really do laugh out loud for a good long while!  I liked best the  pieces on pop culture---diners, motels, TV, dieting, etc.  However, a few  pieces were about subjects you can read about in almost any newspaper  editorial any day of the week---government waste and stupidity, how hard  tax returns are to prepare, and the overactive legal system, to name some.  I found those pieces were not really done as well---they could have been  written by any skilled writer and did not have the distinctive Bryson  voice.  Maybe this is because they were not written for an American  audience originally, and maybe those topics are not as overdone in England.  Overall I still did like this book a lot, although I think I would have  liked better something that was less a collection of thoughts and more a  real tale of coming back to America, from a more personal viewpoint.	2000-01-17
US	53058973	R26CXGSILLUBZ4	0803718845	54095654	Edward Unready for School (Edward the Unready)	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	A book with a unique and very needed message	This book is a perfect example of why Rosemary Wells is my favorite children's author and one of the few brave enough to write with a unique voice.  In this tale, Edward tries play school, doesn't fit in at all,  doesn't enjoy himself, and is just not ready.  His parents and teachers  agree he should stop going until he's ready.  In almost any other telling  of a similar tale, the moral would be that somehow Edward was  &quot;brave&quot; and found a way to like school, and kept going.  Wells is  brave enough to say that some kids really just aren't ready, and that in  today's achievement at all costs oriented society, it's okay!  Any child  would be lucky to have parents like Edward's, who create a home environment  that is cozy and loving.  Don't get this book if you are a parent that has  signed your child up for the top preschool at birth and have your 2 year  old's Ivy League education all planned!  But if you believe in letting kids  be kids, even if they are shy kids, then this is a book for you!	2000-01-17
US	53058973	R2J76QIRQTTTZ2	0679813160	307994932	Thomas and the Hide-and-seek Animals (Thomas the Tank Engine)	Books	4	27	27	N	N	My boys love the humor in the this book!	Almost any Thomas book will be a hit with Thomas fans, but my boys do seem to enjoy this one a great deal.  They find the mild humor (monkeys wearing clothes, seals throwing objects, a bear eating lots of tuna) beyond hilarious.  They like (and I like) the way the lift-a-flaps are set up, so  they really change the picture around when opened.  If you have a Thomas  fan 5 or under, I would consider this book.	2000-01-15
US	53058973	RNBLQ5EDKTHGM	0679834613	541910518	Tell the Time with Thomas Clock Book	Books	4	1	1	N	N	If you have a Thomas fan, they will most likely enjoy this!	You know if you have a Thomas fan in the family, they like almost any Thomas book.  I would not say this is one of the best Thomas books around, but my younger son also loves clocks, so this was a dream combo book!  The pictures are fairly cute and not too cluttered.  My son's favorite is when  Gordon is peeking in the window of Sir Topham Hatt's office---he loves  being able to tell it's Gordon when you can only see a bit of him!	2000-01-14
US	53058973	R3V2SGER5G1QQN	0679880720	912232753	Thomas the Tank Engine's Big Lift-And-look Book (Thomas & Friends)	Books	5	35	36	N	N	A long running hit at our house!	Both my boys (ages 5 and 2) are big Thomas fans, and this book is probably their favorite Thomas book.  There is truly a lot to see and do here!  I think their favorite page is the one with a lot of sheds to open and see all the favorites---James, Percy---all of the gang!  Another page has boxes  filled with different numbers of things---toys, hats, bananas, etc.  One  page even features a man that looks a little bit like Schemer from the  Shining Time Station series, although I don't think he really is, but that  didn't stop that from being the favorite flap in the book for my older son!  Each page is filled with interesting details.  Certainly worth every  penny.	2000-01-14
US	53058973	R12UW1I8JOY9FJ	0765197316	595244247	Muppet Babies Classic Nursery Rhymes (Muppet Babies Series)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The pictures are full of the kind of details kids love	Although I am not usually a fan of character based books like this, my boys really enjoy this one.  The pictures are really something!  They are photos of Muppets set up in scenes, with all kinds of interesting little details---like Miss Piggy holding a tiny Kermit doll, all sorts of fancy  seashells, yummy looking pies and a mouse with a scarf on.  This has been a  good introduction to nursery rhymes for us.	2000-01-14
US	53058973	RMIAB0ATCK3M0	0679858067	913448849	Stop, Train, Stop! a Thomas the Tank Engine Story (Thomas & Friends) (Beginner Books(R))	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Simply written, but very popular in my house!	This book would be an excellent first reader for a Thomas fan.  It's very simply written, but would really hold a beginning reader's interest.  My sons don't read yet, but they love to have it read to them, although I must admit it's not the most fascinating book for the adult reader!  They love  the scenes where the train is going too fast and all sorts of things are  splashing and crashing around because the train is going too fast.	2000-01-14
US	53058973	R1K6LPJ49N8IWA	0316110744	61933833	Arthur's Birthday (An Arthur Adventure)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	My boys like this, I find it unfinished!	We have this book, as well as a CD-ROM version, and have also seen this episode on TV.  My boys like all versions, but I am bothered with every reading or playing by the fact that nothing really explains what happens to Muffy's party---supposedly the rock band and the clown have been booked for  weeks, but somehow this all seems forgotten once Muffy is tricked into  coming to Arthur's house to join his party.  Is the plan that Arthur and  Francine come up with simply to trick Muffy into not going to her own  party?  My husband says I read too much into a simple story, but I think  kid's books should make sense.  I do have to admit this troubling plot  confusion has never bothered my boys a single bit!	2000-01-14
US	53058973	R2VXSP3YQF32E	0140508570	613752924	Here Comes a Bus (Lift-the-flap Books)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A real favorite of both my boys when they were around 2	For a long period when my older son was 2, this was his favorite book.  It's very simply done---kids wait for a bus, all kinds of buses pull up and are not the right bus for them, and you can open the flaps to see what they are the right bus for---for example, a bus for the dog show driven by and  filled with dogs.  I think my boys like the fact this book is predictable  and is about buses---they are bus lovers!	2000-01-14
US	53058973	R2RYSFBCSS06DZ	0140383948	200450738	The Four-Story Mistake (Melendy Family)	Books	5	51	51	N	N	The rare special kind of book that stays with you always	There is something about this book that is very, very special.  There are some many moments in the Melendy series (of which I think this book is the best) that really stay with you always.  A few---Christmas eve, and Randy  talking about how Christmas eve sometimes feels more special than  Christmas---as you are waiting for everything---I think about that every  Christmas eve.  Oliver seeing the Luna moth.  Mona coming home from her  first dance.  The way Cuffy is described---I can picture her as if I knew  her.  It's hard to use my own words to do any justice to Enright's words.  Just will say---I hope you will try this book and let it become as special  a part of your life as it is of mine.	2000-01-13
US	53058973	R3G9Y4M9QITMSU	0394800206	297290871	Go, Dog Go (I Can Read It All By Myself, Beginner Books)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	One of the few books you MUST include in a child's library!	There is just something about this book which delights every child I know.  I think it's the simple but universal concepts---Go, Stop, Like, Don't Like, etc.  Along with that, it's the clever details in the illustrations.  My boys are so fascinated with the one dog that stays asleep while the rest  wake up, by the dog yelling to stop the Ferris wheel, and most of all by  that wildest of parties in kid's lit---the dog party in the tree!  My  older son literally looked at that picture for an hour one night.  It's  such a scene of pure excitement!  If for some strange reason you are only  getting 10 books for your child, this would be one of the 10 to get!	2000-01-13
US	53058973	R2LOJX6QCCFE1Z	0899190359	778351108	The Three Billy Goats Gruff (Paul Galdone Classics)	Books	4	19	21	N	Y	Faithful retelling of the fairy tale	My boys love this author's version of the Three Little Pigs, so I bought a few more of his fairy tales for them.  They also liked this one, but not as much.  That might just be because it's not quite as interesting a tale!  But the illustrations are well done---especially the troll, who is truly scary looking!  This is a good book for a reader who likes to do voices, as  you really have to use dramatic effect to show how the biggest billy goat  has a loud and intimidating voice while the little one has a tiny and timid  voice!	2000-01-13
US	53058973	R1GR75UGWFY8PI	0590469878	706920994	Clifford's Thanksgiving Visit	Books	4	8	10	N	N	My sons' favorite Clifford book	Both my sons are huge Clifford fans, and this is their favorite of all the Clifford books.  I think it's because it might be the only one with a train scene---they are even bigger train fans than Clifford fans!  This book also has a picture with a thought bubble inside a thought bubble, which started  a good conversation on points of view---how someone can be thinking about  someone thinking about them!  More of a philosophical idea than you would  think you would get from a Clifford book!	2000-01-13
US	53058973	R3SA2QME3ARKT0	0807574570	636560023	Small Steps: The Year I Got Polio	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A compelling and well written look into the world of polio	Although I've of course held of polio, and gotten polio vaccines for my boys, I knew very little about it before reading this book.  After reading it, I am eager to find out more about the world of polio.  This book brings to mind other hospital stories such as the wonderful but now out of print The Plague and I.  It's interesting how the author adjusted to life in the  treatment center and has trouble re-adjusting to &quot;real life&quot;.  I  loved hearing about what happened to her friends with polio in their later  life, and felt truly sad to read the author has post-polio syndrome.  I  would recommend this book for both older children and adults.	2000-01-11
US	53058973	RA6FYNAQKQ0ZQ	0195105524	835481804	Tornado Alley: Monster Storms of the Great Plains	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Nice writing style, great images	This book was really well done.  The images of thunderstorms, clouds, tornadoes and various rare weather events are just wonderful.  The writer's style is casual and friendly.  I really liked the way he would toss in  interesting tidbits amoung the technical scientific writing---he'd be  writing in depth about how tornadoes form, and would mention as an aside a  restaurant all the tornado chasers liked!  Anyone who has a fascination for  tornadoes will really enjoy this book.	2000-01-07
US	53058973	R2TJ44XU2EXRV5	0670175919	309114645	Blueberries for Sal (Viking Kestrel picture books)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	This day captures perfectly a long ago day in Maine	Having grown up in the part of Maine this book is set in, and having had many days as a child Sal's age picking blueberries and eating them, I can tell you that this book captures perfectly the feeling of such a day.  I can put myself into the picture and be carried back to the low scrub-filled  woods behind my grandmother's house, the sun warm on my clothes, and bushes  around me so filled with blueberries you could fill a pail without moving.  I can hear the clink of berries in a nearly empty pail, as Sal did.  I  never ran into a bear, but I can almost feel like I did, from reading this  book.  I'm glad to say my young city dwelling son loves this book also, and  it's nice to be able to share part of my past with him through it.	1999-12-23
US	53058973	R3EQA2Q1YTZJL	039525938X	902144535	The Little House	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A book that stays with you through the years	I loved this book as a child---loved seeing the city gradually swallow up the house, and then seeing it get its freedom once again.  I think I learned important concepts from the book too---that the same place can somehow become a very different place over time, and that we can recreate  what is lost if we try hard enough.  My son loves this book too, but for  very different reasons---he loves it that the city scenes have trains in  them!  I'm just glad he will listen to all of it with me--always so nice  with a book so fondly remembered.	1999-12-23
US	53058973	R2ZOMCZNVLT5ZY	0060207051	810682055	Goodnight Moon	Books	5	329	342	N	N	Once you have a child to read this to, you will understand!	Until I started reading to my older son, I didn't really understand what was this book's unique hold on people was.  However, from my first reading to him, I did!  There must be something magical about this book and the way children love it.  It's very comforting  to them, with the easy to memorize  lines and the gentle arrival in the great green room of nighttime.  However, it's also full of little details for them to notice and delight  in--the hidden mouse, the dollhouse with lights on, the pictures on the  wall.  It's the perfect book to start kids &quot;reading&quot;  themselves---leave out the crucial word in a line and wait for them to say  it---&quot;a bowlful of....&quot;  &quot;MUSH!&quot;, they scream with  delight!  And they all love the &quot;Goodnight Nobody&quot; page best---I  think it really gets kids thinking in a philosophical way---How can you say  Goodnight to Nobody?  This book is a true, true gem and belongs in every  library.	1999-12-23
US	53058973	R2GNOI3O4CGCX6	0448405202	333502951	The Little Engine That Could (Original Classic Edition)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	A real crowd pleaser for the train loving set	If I were rating this book based on how much I like it, it would be about a 2 star book!  If my son were rating it, it would be 5 plus stars!  I always found this story a bit dull and predictable.  I was given this book for my son, and read it to him half thinking he would feel the same.  Well,  from the time he was less than a year old, he loved it very, very much.  We  read it over and over and over....I think the message does inspire kids,  and of course, it's about trains, which alone is enough to make him happy.  So I have mellowed on this title, and think it richly deserves a 4 star  vote!	1999-12-23
US	53058973	R3ASCNKILNXY06	006092988X	892654736	A Tree Grows in Brooklyn	Books	5	1	2	N	N	I can still remember my first reading of this book	Many years ago, I was staying with my aunt and hunting for something to read.  She handed me this book and told me how much she had liked it.  I started it and time stood still----I was transported to Brooklyn and the  world of the characters---and I was very sad when the book ended and I had  to leave that world!  I wish this book had a sequel.  I've read it many  times since, with the same effect every time.  If you've never had a first  reading of this wonderful book, I envy you!  You are in for such a treat.	1999-12-22
US	53058973	R3TJLNUXGBEWKS	0060182938	592171238	Paper Daughter: A Memoir	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A book for anyone who ever felt they didn't fit in	Elaine's story is so honest and so well written it becomes almost universal---although she definately describes a certain place, time and situation very clearly.  Anyone who has felt what it was like to go to a  school where you didn't feel you fit in, didn't feel you had the right  clothes or a home you could bring friend home to, or the parents with the  right job, can find comfort here, in knowing that someday like Elaine, you  will find a place you do fit in.  I really loved this book.	1999-12-22
US	53058973	R14IU0DBVB19KI	0374423296	925393301	5 Novels: Alan Mendelsohn, the Boy from Mars; Slaves of Spiegel; The Snarkout Boys and the Avocado of Death; The Last Guru; Young Adult Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Pinkwater's genius is in the details	What makes reading Pinkwater's books such a rare treat is the details---you really never know what you'll read next---what bizarre movie will be showing at the neighborhood theater, what odd TV show will be on  late at night, what weird teacher you will meet at the new school---it's so  unusual to find truly imaginative and surprising reading like this.  And  unlike so many books that give lip service to diversity, it really exists  in these books----it's not wrong here to be overweight, to live in the city  and like it, to find school truly useless.  Every book included here is  great.	1999-12-22
US	53058973	RWCEFQNNJ5OKO	015255095X	975159612	The Moffats	Books	5	18	19	N	N	A beautiful little piece of life	There is something so very special about the Moffet books.  The author really seems to remember childhood as few authors do.  She knows what kind of little moments are so important then, but disappear from most of our minds as we get older.  She is especially good at describing places---the  town the Moffets live in comes so alive, and I can picture just where their  house is on their street, although it must have been 15 years since I last  read this book!	1999-12-22
US	53058973	R395DRQWBFILDF	0064407489	32122109	Magic Elizabeth	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A book that stayed with me across the years	For years now I have been trying to remember the name of this book, so I could look for it again.  I finally asked my sister, and she remembered!  This book has something magical about it---it stayed in the back of my mind someplace for all those years.  It's one of the few books I felt  transported into when I read it.  I know I was in that attic with Sally,  and in her grandmother's house---I could see both places as clearly as the  &quot;real&quot; world around me.  Like Narnia, like Oz, like few others  books and imaginary places, this author creates a very hauntingly real  world.	1999-12-21
US	53058973	R2JKB47BSZGCLR	0374525641	65032227	The Spirit Catches You and You Fall down: A Hmong Child, Her American Doctors, and the Collision of Two Cultures	Books	5	2	2	N	N	non-fiction writing at its best	What I liked best about this book was how it didn't demonize anyone---I think this would be very hard to do when writing about a subject you really care about, as I could tell the author did here.  But I came to understand  everyone's point of view, and how that made the tragedy which came about  even sadder---there is really no-one to blame.  It was unusual and a  pleasant surprise to have the foster mother be one of the kindest people  involved with the sad undoings of events.  I felt I learned a very lot  about the Hmong culture while reading a real page turner I couldn't put  down.	1999-12-21
US	53058973	RC9PNBMSD5RZO	0064404781	428802776	Little House on Rocky Ridge (Little House Sequel)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Very close to the quality of the original series	I was extremely pleasently surprised by the quality of the writing in this book and this entire series.  It was very, very close to the quality of the originals.  Rose is a character with her own thoughts and ideas and  personality---very rounded out and not a generic American girl of the past  with a few built in character traits. This is very likely because the  author actually knew her so well.  I loved the chance to get to know more  about the rest of the story of Laura and Manly and Rose.  If you are like  me and are reluctant to dive into this series as you see it as perhaps a  pale copy of the original, don't be!  It mirrors the style, but in a good  way, and it's a worthy adjunct to the original series.  I really loved it.	1999-12-20
US	53058973	R3VGMQVLK6T1YI	0789434369	47212964	Big Book Of Trains	Books	5	55	58	N	N	If you have a train lover in the family, you need this book!	This is the first fact-filled non-fiction book my 5 year old ever listened to EVERY word of, including all the many captions!  He learned a great deal from our many readings.  The pictures are wonderful, and the information given interesting enough that a non-train lover (me) could stand to read it  quite a few times.  My son loves to amaze people by telling them about the  train of the future with no wheels, which he learned about here!	1999-12-20
US	53058973	RFJY01HRGMBRC	0899192750	926957639	The Three Little Pigs (Paul Galdone Classics)	Books	4	35	37	N	Y	A &quot;back to basics&quot; retelling of the classic story	When my older son became fascinated with the Three Little Pigs after seeing a version of it on Sesame Street, I did some research on this site to decide the best version to buy him in book form, and decided on this  one.  I was glad I did---as he really enjoyed many readings of this version  until he moved onto new interests!  It's not for the faint hearted, as the  first two pigs do get eaten, and the pictures of the houses falling show  sticks all over and pigs flying away, but that's life in fairy tales!  The  text is straightforward, the pictures are clear and well done.  Consider  this version!	1999-12-20
US	53058973	R1Y47UP08MTW2G	0789410095	750230936	Incredible Comparisons	Books	4	2	3	N	N	chock full of interesting facts, but overwhelming!	This book has many facts and pictures which are truly incredible, and the text is well written and researched.  However, for me anyway, the layout of the pages was such that it was quite overwhelming.  Things were placed here and there in what seemed like almost a random fashion, and I found myself  always feeling like I was missing something.  I felt almost relieved to be  done reading this, which is too bad, as it's really a neat book and I  wanted so much to enjoy it more.  My feeling might just be because I am  older than the target age for readers, and a younger reader raised in the  information age entirely would probably not have that problem at all!	1999-12-20
US	53058973	RRJTRH5O3N13P	0789441772	692279936	First Meals	Books	4	29	32	N	N	Beautiful pictures, sound advice, but how practical?	I have  mixed feelings about this book.  The advice about nutrition is heartfelt and sound, the pictures as in all books by this publisher are great, and I certainly got some wonderful ideas.  However, I really wonder  how many busy mothers of today (and that includes mothers at home, as I am)  have time for many of the recipes and ideas in this book.  When you have a  young child ready for lunch, do you really have time to make them Chicken  Sausage Snails that really look like snails, or Sleeping Cannelloni that  look like little sleeping girls?  I understand that some recipes would be  for a special day, but so many of the recipes in this book are quite  complex.  And maybe that's fine---maybe I should be making more things like  those!  And I very well might try after being inspired by this book.	1999-12-20
US	53058973	RIACEEKMYH9CF	067987951X	171763356	Learn with Thomas (Thomas the Tank Engine)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	My boys love this book although I am not as excited over it!	I really believe in following your child's lead in deciding what books to get them and to read, to a large extent.  This book is an example of one that my boys really, really like, although to me it's a bit dull and  stilted.  They love the format, which focuses on one subject with 10  examples for each 2 page spread.  The setup is orderly and not overly busy,  and I think this really lets them focus.  And of course, for Thomas and  friends fan, any book with lots of Thomas action is a good book!	1999-12-20
US	53058973	R3AH909YOLVTXR	0517564327	21041151	Sun's Up	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A very neat little book	I found this out of print book for my sons at a lawn sale.  They both really like it!  This wordless book is has such detailed and interesting pictures, with great little things to find like bunnies hiding in the  grass, a mailman bringing mail, the doghouse in the yard, and thousands  more!  This book follows the sun's journey during the day across the sky.  If you have a child who loves to search pictures for small details, this  one is worth hunting for!	1999-12-20
US	53058973	R2GNN9QLWAZXZ0	1564026205	906006628	My Very First Mother Goose	Books	5	14	15	N	N	My favorite Mother Goose	I have never been a big fan of Mother Goose books---generally because I am not a poetry fan and let's face it---they are poetry!  But when I saw my favorite children's author, Rosemary Wells, illustrated this book, I had to have it, and I am so glad I did!  My boys love it and so do it.  Her  painting for this book are so interesting and varied, and they incorporate  themes that are real crowd pleasers in the under 6 set---lots of moons,  trains and pictures of bunnies that look a lot like Max, her hero of her  great Max and Ruby series.  The selections here include some of the more  unusual Mother Gooses, along with the old favorites.  My boys ask for this  book over and over and are learning a lot of Mother Goose.  This is  definately worth adding to your library.	1999-12-19
US	53058973	RL9P933NY6CNL	0064407373	308305483	Little House by Boston Bay	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Enjoyable, but not quite as much so as other LH books	I am really finding myself enjoying many of the new entries into the extended Little House family, this book included.  However, I did not like it quite as much as others in the series (and of course not as much as the originals, but that goes without saying!).  I don't think this is the  writing, but perhaps just the setting, more urban than any of the others,  so not as full of descriptions of self-reliant country life. This book is  well written, and I do look forward to following Charlotte's life and  seeing how it fits into the big story of the Little House family!  I  especially enjoyed the description of school life in the early 19th century  Boston area.	1999-12-19
US	53058973	RSIP2DNAQ914T	0679449256	835015844	Clear Springs: A Memoir	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Like visiting with family	I enjoyed every minute of reading this book!  It was like a warm, friendly, entertaining visit with extended family to talk over our childhoods and joined past.  The author's style draws you in and makes you  feel so at home, like you are really part of what she is telling.  I felt  like I knew her family by the time I was done reading, and I was glad that  I did.	1999-12-09
US	53058973	R2SC0KDKO115T0	0060167513	483497863	Brownies and Blondies (American Baking Classics)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	I'm working my way through this book, trying each recipe!	This cookbook has really provided me with a lot of happy cooking hours and tasty results.  I'm a casual cook, but these recipes are easy to make and very, very good!  My son is greatly enjoying some Coconut Blondies as I  write, one of the many great Blondies in this book.  I have found Blondie  recipes harder to find than Brownie ones, so it's great there are so many  here!  Worth trying to find.	1999-12-09
US	53058973	R1ZQWOE0PG2RAI	0811815684	762690498	Special Cases: Natural Anomalies and Historical Monsters	Books	2	19	22	N	N	Bizarre, at times slightly interesting but very flawed	This book could have been so much more.  It is flawed by a very odd writing style---deadpan and stilted.  The format is so odd as to make it  almost unreadable at times---two blocks of print on each page, at very  different levels, as if one is meant to be a caption, yet it isn't!  The  author doesn't seem to know whether she wants to be a book for the curious,  or a book condemning you for being curious.  A fascinating subject, which  is why this book can be interesting at all, but really not handled well  here---don't bother with this one.	1999-10-28
US	53058973	R1MW00SXYGP8ES	0590463101	936634156	The Only Alien on the Planet	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Well written book---better than I expected early on	I enjoyed this book, and found it well written and quite unique.  The book rose above my expectations and didn't have a predictable plot.  My only  problem with it was a problem I also find with such YA books as those by  L'Engle---impossibly well read, educated and deep thinking teenagers.  Books like this seem to exist in a fantasy world---one of teenagers (as  well as adults) who endlessly will discuss ideas, books, classic movies and  so forth and who seem to not know much of anyone not like that.  I am sure  there might be people like that, but I think they are mainly in the  families of budding authors---and I wish sometimes for the authors to truly  be able to listen to the world out there and write more balanced accounts  of life.  Or alternatively to acknoledge at least a little in their books  that there are other types of people that exist---those that can't afford  to live in expensive suburbs and spend much time becoming well educated.  But putting that aside, and suspending reality a little in my reading, I  really did like this book!	1999-10-26
US	53058973	RZ7ZWYAXO0RNV	0767902513	157497316	A Walk in the Woods: Rediscovering America on the Appalachian Trail	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A wondeful book, made me appreciate the subject	I read this book to start with mainly because I so enjoy this author's writing style.  However, he is such a masterful writer, he made me also  have an appreciation for the trail and for other subjects I thought I had  no interest in, like the death of the chestnut tree.  I even learned much  about my childhood state of Maine, where his trek ended.  I can't imagine  anyone not liking this book.	1999-10-25
US	53058973	R2PI7ULWS79JHI	0684848376	160400817	FOOD AND WHINE: Confessions of a New Millennium Mom	Books	5	1	3	N	N	This book really won me over!	I went into this book prepared to be somewhat annoyed by it.  I think that was because the background of the author was so very different from myself  (I'm not rich, I'm not Jewish, I don't have parents and in-laws flooding my  children with lavish gifts).  However, I was TOTALLY won over by the  wonderful writing and extremely honesty of the author.  She managed to find  the common ground that I think all mothers (and especially mother who enjoy  cooking, or who are going through dealing with illnesses of parents or  in-laws) share.  I laughed out loud over and over, and shed more than a few  tears.  It's so rare to find real honesty in writing, especially about  motherhood--so many parents who write do so in such a poetic and glowing  and ultimately fake way.  If you are a parent, I think this is one worth  reading.	1999-10-24
US	53058973	R2H6I3UDYO5IDA	0140547150	534788750	Timothy Goes to School (Picture Puffin)	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	My son absolutely loves this book!	This is currently #1 on my son's reading list.  He could listen to this 20 times a day.  I think he likes the fact that it's realistic---there are kids out there like Claude, that really make kids like Timothy not enjoy  school as they otherwise would, but then Timothy is able to find a way to  overcome his sadness.  The pictures are wonderfully expressive.  A real gem  of a book.	1999-10-14
US	53058973	R3U4VXHIMUZZM8	0803711743	835172470	Voyage to the Bunny Planet	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	We've all had days when we needed a trip to the Bunny Planet	This are perfect little books.  In so few words, Wells lets us experience truly awful days from a child's standpoint, and then lets us see another day that would have been the opposite, a wonderful day.  My 5 year old son  loves these books, and I think they also send a message to parents---we  should strive to give our children more days like the Bunny Planet days,  and we should understand that even young children can have very bad days  from which they truly need a restoring break.	1999-10-14
US	53058973	R2ER8XXB367WCT	068484267X	698161422	Angela's Ashes: A Memoir	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of the best books I've ever read	I put off reading this book, as usually when a book gets this much hype, I don't like it.  Well, was I ever wrong!!!  This is definately one of the best books ever written.  The story of Frank's childhood drew me in and  made it almost impossible to put down this book.  So readable yet so  poetic, a wonderful story of one child yet a story that tells something  about all our childhoods.  I wish I had never finished this book, so I  could read it again for the first time.	1999-07-16
US	53058973	R3CRT6Q5AF3INN	0399144315	103586426	The Cat Who Saw Stars	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Very enjoyable, but maybe it wouldn't be for mystery fans	I don't read any mysteries except this series, and maybe that is why I wasn't at all bothered that the mystery in this one is very slight, not really a mystery at all.  I read this series for the great characters and  most of all the feeling of place---of being able to feel really part of the  community created by the author.  I was not disappointed!  I also love  reading about the meals---I love the way every meal out is described!  I  did wonder a bit about the backpacker, and the ending was a big weird and  out of character for Quill, but those things were not enough to make me  have less than very warm feelings for this latest installment!	1999-06-30
US	53058973	R1CA6PXPQNRYPG	0316392154	798455109	This Land Is Your Land	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Beautiful pictures and important concepts	My almost 5 year old son really is enjoying this book.  He loves the pictures, and has learned the song and sings it often.  Although I was not sure how he would react to some of the pictures of homelessness and hungry  people, it has turned out to be a real conversation starter for us to talk  about those tough subjects in a compassionate and non-scary way.  I have  always loved this song, and this book really does it justice.	1999-06-20
US	53058973	R38VOEJYPR9LAR	0152017178	312307625	Mary Poppins (Odyssey Classics)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A wonderful, magical book	If all you know of Mary Poppins is the Disney version, you owe it to yourself to read about the real Mary Poppins, who is very different!  This book is really magical.  Mary Poppins is a truly mystical figure, even a  little scary.  You will not forget her.  I also enjoyed the setting of this  book very much---Edwardian England.  The whole  Mary Poppins series is  consistantly great.	1999-06-06
US	53058973	R3AVHRUJ5BIBZR	0525460128	588895472	The Boxes	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Great writing, interesting concept, unfinished book however!	I really love this author's writing, and have read most of his books.  This one was also very well written, and had a great concept and interesting characters.  However, it seemed like it was half a book.  So  many questions and issues are just not  resolved.  If a sequel does ever  get published, maybe in the future the two books could be published as one,  and I think then it would be a much more complete feeling read!  At least  you are left certainly looking forward to more of this story, which is more  than you can say for so many books!	1999-06-06
US	53058973	R1UNX98YSCOW33	006447108X	671298565	The Last Battle	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A worthy ending to the Narnia story	I remember as a child having mixed feelings about this book.  I found it a little hard to get through, because it seemed to introduce so many characters which were not in earlier books and which didn't really  captivate me.  However, it was worth it to get to the glorious ending.  I  remember feeling so glad that C. S. Lewis let the story end the way it did,  which is certainly not the way most &quot;children's&quot; stories end.  I  felt that he really respected children to not write down to them.  Because  of this book's powerful message, I think it deserves 5 stars even with its  minor flaws.	1999-05-16
US	53058973	R1KG7U3E962HWB	0152020691	28356414	Half Magic (Tales of Magic)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A wonderful book	I discovered this book as a child and read it over and over.  It is the kind of book with magic I like the best---real children in the real world suddenly faced with something quite unreal and magical.  The characters are  wonderful, the situations funny and creative, the whole book is simply  great!  You will love it!	1999-05-16
US	53058973	R1DWEBZ2TYTMRM	0899663427	909009635	Understood Betsy	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A wonderful, wonderful book	If you haven't read this book, get it now and read it---you are in for a treat!  Wonderfully written, full of characters you will remember for years, the story of how Elizabeth became Betsy and started her new life is  one that is truly a classic.	1999-05-16
US	53058973	R109XV19D4G6V6	0316598070	829267212	While Mrs. Coverlet Was Away	Books	5	3	4	N	N	One of the books I remember most fondly from my childhood	When I think of my 10 or so favorite books from my childhood, this one is high on that list.  Very funny, lots of magic, well created characters, a really enchanting book.  Worth trying to get!	1999-05-16
US	53058973	RV9MSYEBJC3JJ	0679847596	17176964	Ballet Shoes	Books	5	4	4	N	N	One of my childhood favorites	As a child, I read this book again and again and again.  It's hard to explain exactly why----I never took dance, have no real interest in dance, and couldn't do ballet on a bet.  But I think what captivated me is the  detail the author gives.  She really makes you  see, step by step, exactly  what it took for the girls to become what they became, and it's a  fascinating journey.  I am sad to see this book is currently not available.  I think girls growing up today should be able to read this special story!	1999-05-16
US	53058973	R2IUR65ZFAS2UV	0671686151	840837500	Then She Found Me	Books	4	6	8	N	N	I enjoyed this book very much	A very well written book.  The characters were so well drawn.  I especially liked the romance.  It is rare to read of a romance in a novel today between two people who are not &quot;beautiful people&quot;, that is,  not rich, or gorgeous, or especially successful, but just people like most  of us!	1999-05-16
US	53058973	R29SRAW5TA3L67	0440488648	271921771	Timothy and Two Witches	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A book that stayed in my mind for years after being read	I read this book once, at a friend's house, as a young child.  The story stayed somewhere in the back of my mind for years, or rather the mood, the world, that this haunting story created.  I couldn't remember the title for  so long, until finally one day it came back to me and I was finally able to  find it at a library and read it again.  It was just as good as I  remembered.  Look for it!	1999-05-16
US	53058973	R3KHCZX8KPTQD	0395816645	66692042	See You Around, Sam! (Sam Krupnik)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	The writing is wonderful but the characters are annoying!	Lois Lowry is one of the best writers for children around, but I find Sam to be one of the most annoying characters around.  He is simply too precocious to be at all believable, as was  his sister Anastasia before  him!  In fact, all the neighbors are really too clever, interesting, well  educated and understanding to ring too true to me.  Maybe there really is a  neighborhood like Sam's someplace, but I doubt it.  That said, I always  read each new Lowry book and do find myself enjoying them, and I'm sure  most readers would too.	1999-05-16
US	53058973	R3ONVD6FDPPL1D	014036336X	315622119	The House with a Clock in Its Walls (Lewis Barnavelt)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A  book that creates a world you will never forget	I read this book first many years ago, and have read it many times since then.  It is a testament to the wonderful writing that New Zebedee is one of the few fictional places that I can picture in my mind perfectly.  I  feel as if I have been there.  Absolutely a masterpiece.  Read it!	1999-05-16
US	53058973	R2AKKO8NGMMF07	0803718837	637429185	Edward's Overwhelming Overnight (Edward the Unready)	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	A wonderful book with an unusual and important message	I loved this book and so did my son.  It is SO hard to find children's books that say that it's okay to be behaviorally a little different.  So many books say it's okay to be different in other ways, but there is not  much out there for the child that might be not ready to try new things as  eagerly as their peers.  Most books seem to tell them to &quot;go ahead,  try it, in the end it will be great&quot; but this book admits that Edward  was just plain not ready for an overnight, and that being at home was much  happier for him.  I think Rosemary Wells is one of the few authors out  there for young children that truly understands them.	1999-04-29
US	53058973	R3VUJKHI27L90J	0679439013	390970926	This Is My Daughter: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	In general, a very well written book	Overall, I  liked this book very much.  The author is extremely good at creating believable characters with detailed histories, and she is excellent at recreating children's speech, which is something that is not  often done well.  I was really drawn into this story.  However, I was quite  disappointed at the ending.  It did not match the rest of the book at all.  It seemed contrived in order to create an ending to a story that was  really on-going.  But I would not let that stop you from really enjoying  this book.	1999-04-18
US	53058973	R30B5VPML3ZOX1	0140564306	287945555	No More Water in the Tub!	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	My son loves this book, I like it	My son is a HUGE fan of No Jumping on the Bed, and we looked forward eagerly to this book arriving in the mail!  My son loves it just as much, and it's on our frequent read list.  I don't like it quite as well as &quot;Jumping&quot;, mainly because it seems a little forced into the same  format, and I am somewhat disturbed by the fire scene at the end, but I  still just love the illustrations, and would recommend it!	1999-04-13
US	53058973	R25M7KR35RTSY9	0606028404	331335488	Mooncake (Moonbear Books)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A book my 4 year old son  really loves	My son loves this book so much, and has for a long time!  He is very interested in the moon and rocket ships, both of which this book concerns.  I think he likes the clear,  uncluttered yet interesting pictures too.  He  likes all of the books by this author, but especially this one! I would  recommend it!	1999-03-23
US	53058973	RN5VJE4MEETOG	0531068846	765831418	Counting Our Way To Maine	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great book, especially for anyone with a Maine connection	I bought this book for my son as I am a Mainer in exile, and we often visit his grandparents there.  I was not sure if he would like it, but I liked it!  And lo and behold, he likes it too!  The pictures are detailed  and funny, the concept simple enough for him to understand, but interesting  enough for him to keep  reading.  It also bought back a lot of happy  memories of my Maine childhood.	1999-03-20
US	53058973	RT8HROA78S7PD	059047572X	944373042	Cars! Cars! Cars (Story Corner)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	My son's favorite book at age 2	When my son was 2, this was his favorite book for many months running, and he's not even a big cars fan, much more of a train fan!  I think he liked it that the text was so simple and easy to cue by looking at the pictures.  He memorized the whole thing very easily.  The pictures are the kind that  often appeal to young kids---very clear and standing out against white  background.  He especially liked it that the last page says &quot;say  goodbye, car&quot; giving the book a clear ending.	1999-03-20
US	53058973	R2L14JPG8O4J10	068814134X	16133953	I'll Catch the Moon	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One of my son's favorite books	This book has been one of my 4 year old son's favorite books for a long time now.  He really loves the realistic moon pictures and the city skylines.  The idea of being able to play near the moon is one that really  sparks his imagination.  I think this book has done a lot to get him  interested in space in general.  I like the fact that it's set in the city,  something that not enough kid's book are.	1999-03-01
US	53058973	RIAI22FAEHWP1	0385322046	596117159	Underground Train	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	A book young train lovers might really like	My son (age 4) has this book on his frequent reading request list!  I like it too, but not as well as he does.  He gets very confused by the parts of the book that are set above the ground, and I find them sort of  needless---especially since on some pages there is no picture at all of the  train underground.  My son asks every time we are on those  pages---&quot;where's the train?&quot;.  But that small flaw in our eyes is  not enough to make him not like this book very much!  His favorite part is  the descriptive writing of how the train sounds!  If you have a young train  or subway lover, I would get this one!	1999-03-01
US	53058973	R30XUZJPGHV440	0307116131	825309928	The Twiddlebugs' dream house	Books	4	5	6	N	N	My son ADORES this book	I had picked up a great deal of books from this series (Sesame Street book club) used for my son. They are of varying quality, but this one is absolutely a gem and one of his all time favorite books.  It uses  photographs to show the Twiddlebugs moving from their own cozy but simple  home into a fancy dollhouse with all kinds of furniture, and then shows why  they decide to move back.  My son loves seeing the neat dollhouse  furniture, and is fascinated with the whole moving theme!  I would  recommend trying to get this one!	1999-03-01
US	53058973	R1AF1PIKZ0GRPB	1864481765	15366374	Happy and Sad (A Little Ark Book)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Very cute book that my boys love	My two boys, ages 4 and 1, just adore this book.  They love seeing what the baby has done when he is bad or grumpy.  I think they like it that this book is not scared to admit that at times, babies can be very trying, and  sometimes it's a big relief when they get to sleep!  The pages when the  baby is happy are great too---doing the kinds of things that truly do make  babies happy, like riding on Daddy like a horse or &quot;helping&quot; Mama  with laundry.	1999-02-28
US	53058973	R2GI1LW4495Y5	0684815370	425178652	The YOUNGEST MINDS : Parenting and Genetic Inheritance in the Development of Intellect and Emotion	Books	3	16	19	N	N	Interesting, but for me anyway not terribly useful	I found myself wishing often while reading this book that there were less accounts of studies done and more actual new information and advice.  The book for me read like a long string of accounts of studies of young  children (and a fair amount of studies of older children and adults) and  very little telling me the authors' points of view or even much tying  together all the studies.  However, I did find the information on language  development quite interesting.  I guess whether you would want to read this  depends on what you are looking for.  If you are a parent looking for  practical advice, look elsewhere.  If you are interested in the scientific  study of young childrens' minds, this might be just what you are looking  for.	1999-02-10
US	53058973	R3EGBG93UACTFI	031215691X	348029278	The White-Haired Girl: Bittersweet Adventures of a Little Red Soldier	Books	4	0	0	N	N	This book was very well written and fascinating	I've read many first person accounts of living through the Cultural Revolution in  China, and this ranks high on my personal list of favorites. Jaia's childhood story is told with a great deal of honesty, and she lets  us see along with her the first realizations that all she is told might not  be fact, and that  there are different ways to view events.  I loved the  account of a survivor of the Long March talking at her school.  Like  another reviewer, I'd like to know more about her life in the US, and would  love another book by her telling that story.	1999-02-10
US	53058973	RS8LXM8F51NII	0940160226	217294679	Innocence Under the Elms	Books	5	28	28	N	N	One of the best accounts of growing up you will ever read	I have read this book quite a few times, and loved it just as much every time.  It tells with amazing clarity and honesty what it's like to grow up---and although it's set in a Massachusetts town at the beginning of the  century--it's fresher and more modern and sharp than most any book written  today.  The author is not afraid to admit that growing up is not all  happiness and light, but also tells so well about the small, bright moments  that we will remember forever from our childhoods. Don't miss this true gem  of a book.	1999-02-04
US	53058973	R2JWXYKK7SIRAN	0689819110	628553393	Baby Faces (Look Baby! Books)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	My boys love this book!	I don't know what it is about this book, but both my boys, ages 1 and 4, love it so much!  I guess it's probably the big, clear and so expressive faces of the babies.  My 4 year old especially loves it that one baby is  crying---I think because that's a reality of babies that so many baby books  seem to ignore, and it probably helps him accept that his brother does cry  sometimes!  I'd really recommend this  one!	1999-02-04
US	53058973	R2HQOWC3F1TZLH	0385241747	668967155	Growing	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The favorite book of all for both my boys!	My boys, ages 4 and 1, both love this book more than all others in their huge collection!  It's so simple yet so interesting to them---showing with clear photographs the stages a baby goes through  during the first year.  They love it when on the last pages the babies are walking---we all yell  together---THEY TURNED INTO BIG BOYS NOW!  Get this book if you can---it's  wonderful!	1999-02-04
US	53058973	R1ZVLYRL0CON8W	0820702773	756639259	Near Breathing: A Memoir of a Difficult Birth (Emerging Writers in Creative Nonfiction)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	One of the best books I've ever read	I have rarely read a better written  book or one that moved me more.  This book tells with incredible honestly the feelings the author had while dealing with the diffecult birth and stay in the hospital of her daugther.  As the mother of a son that also  spent time in a NICU, it was so wonderful  to read a book that was not afraid to tell how it really feels---instead of  just focusing on  &quot;miracles&quot; or on how to be &quot;advocate for  your child&quot; or the focus of so many other books on this subject.  Whether it was talking about how insensitive nurses can make you feel, or  about how you are observed by the staff in all you do, it was as if my  feelings had been written down for me.  Thank you, thank, Kathryn Rhett,  for writing this book.	1998-11-21
