US	53060790	R1J0TOBOCT4H3B	030733855X	164671132	John	Books	5	149	156	N	N	John Lennon history continued	As anniversaries are celebrated and observed, more information referencing the Beatles are released.  However, works by immediate family members or those closest to individual band members may become less.  The release is quite fitting in that it coincides with what would have been John's 65th birthday and 25 years since his death.  As with any event in history, having the opportunity to read accounts from those who witnessed the events bring us much closer to understanding who the individual was and debunking any myths or rumors that have existed through out the years and laying them to rest.  In this case, Cynthia Lennon attempts to show the truth about John Lennon.  What makes her biography or memoir so unique is that she examines her relationship with John Lennon from his pre-Beatle days as a college art student in the late 1950s up to her bitter divorce in 1969 as well as the John's post-Beatle years.  Her story shows the change and transformation of John Lennon to readers, and the emotions and guilt that she experienced as she went through the process -- the coming to terms with her loss and being at peace with what happened.<br /><br />JOHN is not a book about the Beatles or their music.  Cynthia guides the reader through a chronology of her life with stories about how she met John Lennon and relating events that pertained to her own personal life, her long-time friendship with her girlfriend, Phyllis McKenzie, and her mother, who were always there to support her through trying times.  The most interesting aspect of the book is the love-hate relationship between Cynthia and John's Aunt Mimi, and more in-depth information about John's sisters, Julia and Jacqui.  In addition, the most heart wrenching part of the book is the one between father and son, which covers Julian's birth up to John's death.  Cynthia's correlation with what song or record John was working on or singing about was effective in telling the story as it related to Julian and Cynthia's reality.  Cynthia ties loose ends of the John Lennon story, and suggests that drugs and John's longing for a \\"mother-like\\" figure may have caused him to forge a life with Yoko Ono.<br /><br />Overall, JOHN is a compelling and inviting book.  The photographs that accompany Cynthia's narrative are enthralling as well.  Some have never been published and come directly from Cynthia Lennon's own personal collection, while others may be all too familiar to John Lennon and Beatle fans.  JOHN offers readers another perspective of the man who became an iconoclastic figure after his passing, but was merely as human as his fans.ia ties loose ends of the John Lennon story, and suggests that drugs and John's longing for a \\"mother-like\\" figure may have caused him to forge a life with Yoko Ono.    Overall, JOHN is a compelling and inviting book.  The photographs that accompany Cynthia's narrative are enthralling as well.  Some have never been published and come directly from Cynthia Lennon's own personal collection, while others may be all too familiar to John Lennon and Beatle fans.  JOHN offers readers another perspective of the man who became an iconoclastic figure after his passing, but was merely as human as his fans.	2005-10-10
US	53060790	R31SUMJ818ORCS	0195033817	213986428	James Joyce (Oxford Lives S)	Books	5	27	32	N	N	When Irish Eyes Exile	Richard Ellmann's biography is the most definitive and complete examination of James Joyce that has been written.  This extensive work examines Joyce's life from his birth to his death.  Ellmann's narrative derives from Joyce's letters as well as accounts from Joyce's brother, Stanislaus.  The book is most revealing in offering an understanding of the process it took for Joyce to come up with his most monumental works, ULYSSES AND FINNEGANS WAKE.  Ellmann states that Joyce intentionally made it difficult for anyone to understand what he wrote.  He wanted to keep his critics, academics and scholars, guessing of what significance his nonsensical gibberish creation represented. In addition, Ellmann intertwines events that occurred in Joyce's life that show how they closely resemble the characters in the works he produced, such as his early work, A PORTRAIT OF THE ARTIST AS A YOUNG MAN.<br /><br />James Joyce most likely can be considered a \\"starving artist.\\"  He would go without a new pair of shoes until they wore down to the soles, but looked debonair and sophisticated with non-matching suits.  In the beginning, he aspired to be a work within the realms of Jesuit studies, but later opted for a writing career that would take him from Trieste, Paris, and Zurich. Joyce struggled with poverty through out his life even as his most famous works were published.  Monetary problems and health conditions that affected his eyesight never hindered his creative process.  If he lost his eyesight, he probably would have continued to write blind.  Joyce appeared to be an eccentric and stubborn man.  However, Ellmann shows a caring and supporting man who loved his wife and children, and most of all, his father, John Stanislaus Joyce.<br /><br />In terms to history and literature, Ellmann constantly references Joyce's fascination with Shakespeare, ancient civilization and history.  This is best displayed in ULYSSES, but one significant footnote is that he did not appear to care for American history.  He makes a minute reference to Ulysses S. Grant in ULYSSES, but he did not even know who the man was; Joyce loathed the United States.  Also, Ellmann offers a birds-eye view of what his cohorts thought of his work.  Gertrude Stein as well as Ernest Hemingway praised and envied Joyce's contributions to Modernism.<br /><br />Ellmann examines a tremendous amount of information within his narrative.  When one completes JAMES JOYCE, what else do you need to know about this genuine writer who used his craft as a means of getting back home, but never quite made it there?  But he preferred Zurich and its snow-capped mountains as home rather than the complexities of his former Dublin.  JAMES JOYCE is the springboard one needs when beginning a study of Joyce the man and his works, which should begin with PORTRAIT and ending with WAKE.rican history.  He makes a minute reference to Ulysses S. Grant in ULYSSES, but he did not even know who the man was; Joyce loathed the United States.  Also, Ellmann offers a birds-eye view of what his cohorts thought of his work.  Gertrude Stein as well as Ernest Hemingway praised and envied Joyce's contributions to Modernism.<br /><br />Ellmann examines a tremendous amount of information within his narrative.  When one completes JAMES JOYCE, what else do you need to know about this genuine writer who used his craft as a means of getting back home, but never quite made it there?  But he preferred Zurich and its snow-capped mountains as home rather than the complexities of his former Dublin.  JAMES JOYCE is the springboard one needs when beginning a study of Joyce the man and his works, which should begin with PORTRAIT and ending with WAKE.	2005-10-10
US	53060790	R3H0D20RS86MYH	0674006798	349684031	Merry Christmas!: Celebrating America’s Greatest Holiday	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Cultural History and All its Splendor	When grasping the realities of the Christmas holiday, it is the actual grasping towards the material things rather than the spiritual meaning.  Karal Ann Marling examines the cultural history of Christmas and how it evolved into a secular holiday in American society from the nineteenth century and then to the present day, and its significance to how things determined identity and familial gatherings.  The holidays would not be complete without the decorated Christmas tree, greeting cards, or the plum pudding.<br /><br />MERRY CHRISTMAS!  Takes a joyous and amusing look at the holiday with all its myths and legends that have been passed from generation to generation.  The literary traditions that have been brought upon by Clement Moore's `Twas the Night Before Christmas' or Charles Dickens' A CHRISTMAS CAROL have only emphasized an image of the holidays to represent an Old England or Kris Kringle imagery that does not allow other representations to be looked at as the \\"real\\" Christmas image.  However, Marling's study looks at the amusement and celebration and popular aspects that have allowed the image of the holiday to be shared and experienced by all cultures and religions in some form or another.  Therefore, the image of the Christmas tree or sending greeting cards has caused many to participate in a form of communal unity.<br /><br />Marling includes archival photographs and illustrations from several renowned sources that help bring alive the Christmas spirit of long ago.  One of the most interesting illustrations that are presented through out the book are the most popular depictions as drawn by Thomas Nast, Civil War and 19th century artist for Harper's Weekly, of the Santa Claus image of Moore's literary creation as well as gathering around the Christmas tree as a form of family tradition.  Other photos show the Salvation Army and how they have become synonymous with Christmas and giving.<br /><br />Marling's concentration of the 1800s, 1930s and 1950s image of Christmas forever remains lodged in the mind of those who celebrate one of the most welcomed holidays in the history of civilization.  Other periods during the twentieth century could have been further researched and presented, but nonetheless, Marling provides a vast amount of references that revolve around the holiday.<br /><br />MERRY CHRISTMAS, indeed, shows the cheerful depiction of the Christmas holiday with all its material and consumer culture.  The Macy's Thanksgiving Parade tells each and every holiday celebrant that Christmas is on its way.  If one would like to  complement their memories of Christmas past and understand what it represents, this book is recommended reading.remains lodged in the mind of those who celebrate one of the most welcomed holidays in the history of civilization.  Other periods during the twentieth century could have been further researched and presented, but nonetheless, Marling provides a vast amount of references that revolve around the holiday.    MERRY CHRISTMAS, indeed, shows the cheerful depiction of the Christmas holiday with all its material and consumer culture.  The Macy's Thanksgiving Parade tells each and every holiday celebrant that Christmas is on its way.  If one would like to  complement their memories of Christmas past and understand what it represents, this book is recommended reading.	2005-10-03
US	53060790	R23JUWYCXOXVX9	1883011140	902631932	USA (The 42nd Parallel / 1919 / The Big Money)	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Post WWI, Literary Modernism, and History in American Society	What does history mean to you?  For every college student who has taken an American literature class that covers the early twentieth century, they will come across excerpts of THE USA TRILOGY:  42nd Parallel, 1919, and BIG MONEY.  Through out the reading of John Dos Passos' THE USA TRILOGY, this question may penetrate through the mind of each reader that encounters these three books, which were quite innovative during the time in which they were published.  This three-volume publication is rich with historical references that pertain to the Civil War, WWI, Industrial Age, and the Russian Revolution.  This may be a travel log through Post Modern twentieth century history when writers spontaneously wrote about every bit of observation and engraved them in large volumes of text.  Dos Passos was one of those novelists that evolved during the post-WWI age.<br /><br />Dos Passos wrote about the ever-changing American landscape after World War I that affected the politics as well as the social structure that occurred as a result of the inclusion and exclusion of immigrants that erupted with much nationalistic and xenophobic fervor as well as paranoia.  Historians may consider this period in history as the first wave of the Cold War.  However, his topics concentrate on the build up of urban development and union formation in the city versus break down of rural and small town constructs of the country.  From New York to the coastline of Hampton Roads, Dos Passos covers a wide terrain.<br /><br />With its experimental poetry and newsreel and newspaper headline layout, the book reads like countless interruptions or intermissions between the narratives.  Dos Passos creates a tremendous amount of vivid images that may create a mental picture of the words conveyed in the book.  There are splashes of imagery and symbolism that represent the atmosphere in which Dos Passos experienced, which resembles a biographical and bibliographical array of experiences that influenced what he wrote.  Therefore, the reading of this fine text takes both an objective and subjective point of view because of its creative nonfiction slant.<br /><br />Dos Passos' work may be critiqued by literary academics, but speaking from a historical perspective, this set of novels have the history of the early twentieth century in the form of snapshots of the period from narratives that resemble oral histories to commentaries of US history that span from regions divided by the war of the states to the upheaval of the Great Depression.  This book is recommended for those who are enticed with US history in the form of a novel.  It may take months or a summer to seriously read, but it will be worth the read., the reading of this fine text takes both an objective and subjective point of view because of its creative nonfiction slant.      Dos Passos' work may be critiqued by literary academics, but speaking from a historical perspective, this set of novels have the history of the early twentieth century in the form of snapshots of the period from narratives that resemble oral histories to commentaries of US history that span from regions divided by the war of the states to the upheaval of the Great Depression.  This book is recommended for those who are enticed with US history in the form of a novel.  It may take months or a summer to seriously read, but it will be worth the read.	2005-09-26
US	53060790	RJAA8KQEBX61J	0671792768	509732540	Brave Companions: Portraits In History	Books	4	43	46	N	N	A Sample of History Writing	David McCullough may be the most revered historian of the twentieth and twenty-first century.  This may be somewhat exaggerated, but he keeps the romanticism of the past alive.  The cover artwork of BRAVE COMPANIONS:  PORTRAITS IN HISTORY shows the wide open spaces of the American landscape, which may suggest the stories and adventures that readers will discover when they read this book.  McCullough revisits legendary and not as legendary individuals in American history that have made an impact on American society for their individual contributions.  McCullough presents these individuals and their stories as ordinary people and not larger than life characters, which textbooks or biographies have portrayed them to be.  Surprisingly, he earned a degree in English and not in History.  However, that does not restrict him from preserving the memory of the past in a colorful way.  His eloquent and personal writing style entices many to enjoy extensive pages of his narratives on historical figures such as, John Adams, George Washington, and Harry S. Truman.<br /><br />BRAVE COMPANIONS:  PORTRAITS IN HISTORY compiles early essays that McCullough wrote prior to and in between writings of his most notable novels that involved the Brooklyn Bridge, the Panama Canal, and a list of other topics that have found their way into his writings.  BRAVE COMPANIONS paints a broad picture of Americana through these essays, and offers a somewhat personal glimpse of literary and historical figures such as, Harriet Beecher Stowe, Louis Agassiz, Miriam Rothschild, and Alexander von Humboldt, as ordinary people who happened to make it into the history books.  McCullough introduces each character like an old friend; these are the people he grew to know through his studies and research, and this is his ode to a few of them.<br /><br />The concluding chapters are the most interesting.  McCullough summarizes what history means to him, and how far American history has come.  The essay entitled \\"Recommended Itinerary\\" reads like a graduation address to graduating college students.  McCullough merely states that their learning does not end when they leave the halls of their education, but rather continues when they further discover new areas of learning either through books, travel, or the people they meet.  Their education only comes alive when they visit historical monuments, museums, or actual places in which they have only read or talked about in school.erary\\" reads like a graduation address to graduating college students.  McCullough merely states that their learning does not end when they leave the halls of their education, but rather continues when they further discover new areas of learning either through books, travel, or the people they meet.  Their education only comes alive when they visit historical monuments, museums, or actual places in which they have only read or talked about in school.	2005-09-14
US	53060790	R1ANP4GS2PE0KC	1583220488	27880789	Howard Zinn on History	Books	4	7	7	N	N	An Alternative Perspective of History	Howard Zinn's approach to history comes directly from his own life experience.  He saw the baby boom part of the twentieth century history evolve before his eyes with major events, such as the Civil Rights Movement and the further activism that occurred thereafter, and the effects of the war on Vietnam with archival work, to name a few.  HOWARD ZINN ON HISTORY is a collection of essays and articles previously published in notable journals and magazines, such as the Midwestern Archivist and Saturday Review.  Zinn examines topics that have affected him academically as well as personally, and appear somewhat out dated but timeless at the same time because of how much has progressed from the time he originally wrote the pieces.<br /><br />The book may serve as a teaching tool for a political or American history classes because of its small format.  It is the type of book that will raise questions for the casual history reader as well as the any history major.  However, there are serious political overtones that resonate with the majority of the essays that may suggest Zinn's revisionist perspective on history, but he exposes the study of history and the sum of its parts.  Zinn states:  \\"The scholar may swear to his neutrality on the job, but whether he be physicist, historian, or archivist, his work will tend, in this theory, to maintain the existing social order by perpetuating its values, by legitimizing its priorities, by justifying its wars, perpetuating its prejudices, contributing to its xenophobia, and apologizing for its class order\\" (p. 167).<br /><br />Zinn opens the door to history as well as an inquiry into how it is shaped and formed.  He probes important topics that have often been overlooked, which raises important questions, what can be considered history, and how long does it take to be history?	2005-09-10
US	53060790	RREML0VZNNVPW	0312254644	161319837	All We Are Saying: The Last Major Interview with John Lennon and Yoko Ono	Books	5	2	2	N	N	"She doesn't need a Beatle.  Who needs a Beatle?"	Indeed, All We Are Saying:  The Last Interview with John Lennon and Yoko Ono pulls out the punches.  The book shows how far  former Beatle, John Lennon, had come and where he was headed.  David Sheff's \\"Playboy\\" interview with John Lennon and Yoko Ono is the most fascinating piece of oral history about Lennon's life as well as the story behind every Beatle song.  Sheff intimately takes reader through the studio, John and Yoko's Dakota apartment, and down the neighborhood coffeeshop sharing a cappuccino.  All We Are Saying presents an extremely candid and frank interview that was held two months prior to Lennon's passing.  Sheff reveals Lennon's growth and new beginning that would unfortunately be cut short.<br /><br />All We Are Saying does not lack in humor and seriousness.  This was the man, not the Sixties icon who sang against a \\"Revolution,\\" who still had dreams and aspirations to accomplish at the time the interview was conducted. For fans of Lennon as well as the Beatles, this was Lennon stripped down and open for questions, and he merely tells it like it is or was.  He expresses the breakup of the Beatles, and emphasizes that they were great, but they were in the past.  He talks about the ups and downs of his individual experience from being a heroin addict to a househusband.  He was living in the here and now, and the music that he was making at the time reflected that mantra.  Though the references he made about the music scene now appear dated, Lennon was ahead of his game and kept up with bands, such as the Clash, Pretenders, and the B-52's.  He even raves how the B-52's rip-off Yoko's style of music.<br /><br />Sheff writes the interview in clear and picturesque narrative.  For every new chapter, he introduces the reader to where the interview is going.  However, the concluding portions of the book appear too rushed.  Sheff appears to have wanted to discuss or at least learn about every tidbit about each Beatles song, which almost portrayed a to-do list, and at times it appears as if he did not want to run out of tape.  From the transcript of the interview, Lennon appears too tired to talk about each and every Beatle song as he answers with yes and no answers.  For the most part, Lennon wanted to speak about his new album at the time, \\"Double Fantasy\\", and new projects he was planning.<br /><br />All We Are Saying is an important document of the life of John Lennon.  For Beatle and Lennon fans, the book is quite ironic and sad due to the circumstance, but that should not stop any one from learning more about one of the most legendary artists of the twentieth century.s it appears as if he did not want to run out of tape.  From the transcript of the interview, Lennon appears too tired to talk about each and every Beatle song as he answers with yes and no answers.  For the most part, Lennon wanted to speak about his new album at the time, \\"Double Fantasy\\", and new projects he was planning.      All We Are Saying is an important document of the life of John Lennon.  For Beatle and Lennon fans, the book is quite ironic and sad due to the circumstance, but that should not stop any one from learning more about one of the most legendary artists of the twentieth century.	2005-08-31
US	53060790	R3G0II5F4TRVOM	0805052496	720482496	Paul McCartney: Many Years From Now	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The "I" According to Sir Paul	Barry Miles's biography about Paul McCartney is rich with the words and facts straight from McCartney's accounts.  Many Years From Now begins with a historical backdrop as it pertains to McCartney's childhood from post-war England and seafaring Liverpool to Hamburg's red light district where he and the Beatles honed their musical skills, and then to the swinging sixties London scene.  Miles does a good job at setting up the narrative in a way to give the reader a feel of the sixties, which involved much drug taking and raunchiness.  He examines much information in depth that had not been mentioned in previous Beatle related narratives.<br /><br />However, the book meanders off the main subject. Miles guides the reader through McCartney's life, and attempts to emphasize origins of McCartney's creative and artistic side.  And somehow, his narrative gets lost in the shuffle when he over emphasizes the advant-garde and how it connects with McCartney's life - the intermittent mention of Allen Ginsberg, William Borroughs, and Willem de Kooning weaves in and out as influential people who may have encouraged him to rediscover his poetry and artwork.  In addition, Miles writes long narratives about McCartney's inner circle - John Dunbar, Marianne Faithful, Robert Fraser, the Ashers, etc. and at times makes the reader ask, what about the Beatles and how did this have an affect on their music?<br /><br />Indeed, the core of the book is about the relationship between McCartney and the Beatles.  No doubt, there is bias when Miles examines the Lennon and McCartney songwriting collaboration.  He as well as McCartney emphasize that McCartney was the director both musically and creatively for the Sgt. Pepper sessions and album cover and the disastrous Magical Mystery Tour escapade.  Some Beatle fans may take this biography as the world according to Paul McCartney or Barry Miles's perception that McCartney led and helped keep the Beatle machine operating until it could no longer operate any longer.  McCartney's claims of doing this or contributing that to a Beatle song may shatter the image of the Lennon and McCartney songwriting team that most diehard Beatle fans have been accustomed to, but the information that Miles and McCartney disclose leaves much evidence to which route the Beatles were heading towards after 1966 and up to 1970 - a slow divorce.  Yet, McCartney honestly clarifies misconceptions that had been placed on him as a result of the breakup of the Beatles.<br /><br />Whatever the case, the songs of Lennon and McCartney remain in the minds of those who endear them.  The myth or the legend will still surpass any new revelation that may be revealed.  If Many Years From Now is Beatle revision in terms of the phenomenon and magic that was created, so be it.  For every new listener that comes across the Beatles' music, this is yet another addition of information of what the Beatles were and how they and Paul McCartney affected many lives through their image and music.r.  McCartney's claims of doing this or contributing that to a Beatle song may shatter the image of the Lennon and McCartney songwriting team that most diehard Beatle fans have been accustomed to, but the information that Miles and McCartney disclose leaves much evidence to which route the Beatles were heading towards after 1966 and up to 1970 - a slow divorce.  Yet, McCartney honestly clarifies misconceptions that had been placed on him as a result of the breakup of the Beatles.      Whatever the case, the songs of Lennon and McCartney remain in the minds of those who endear them.  The myth or the legend will still surpass any new revelation that may be revealed.  If Many Years From Now is Beatle revision in terms of the phenomenon and magic that was created, so be it.  For every new listener that comes across the Beatles' music, this is yet another addition of information of what the Beatles were and how they and Paul McCartney affected many lives through their image and music.	2005-08-27
US	53060790	R2C6LO43FKEE6D	0394751728	442795076	War Without Mercy: Race and Power in the Pacific War	Books	5	3	13	N	N	Beyond Subjectivity	John Dower wrote WAR WITHOUT MERCY:  RACE AND POWER IN THE PACIFIC WAR over 20 years ago.  During that time, World War II was already 40 years in the past, and the Reagan years welcomed the patriotic fervor of WWII.  Retrospection and commemoration takes into account an event with its good and bad elements.  It is usually the bad that is left unspoken.  According to Dower, he wants to present the racial hate that existed during World War II. He presents two distinctions of racial hate, one involving US portrayal, and two, how the Japanese saw themselves. This is an important distinction in order to understand their purpose and their intentions.<br /><br />WAR WITHOUT MERCY examines the intense strategy that was executed in order to bring the enemy down.  In this case, World War II and the Japanese military.  The strategy had been psychological warfare in the form of the propaganda war machine.  This method had not been new.  Dating back to World War I, the US government used the same tactic against the German army, portraying them as brutal, almost animal-like monsters pillaging the European landscape, and eating any human alive.  Though, this is exaggeration, the political cartoons as well as war posters and postcards portrayed the enemy in this way.  World War II was no different.  Yes, the illustrations that John Dower studies and elaborately discusses were racially stereotypical and hateful during their inception.  However, he strongly emphasizes that this context of the war has been neglected, and his job was to present the evidence, and to place them in the context of their time and place.  If one looked at the larger context in terms of hierarchical and authoritarian thinking, there is the distinct of race and power that are inseparable (xi).<br /><br />The overall debate surrounding Dower's study is that he possesses a somewhat subjective point of view resulting in bias of his subject matter.  When it comes to preserving the status quo or the well-known narrative of history, it is controversial to re-create or revise history.  With the commemoration of the 60th anniversary of V-J Day, bias and unequal exposure of the conflicts that occurred during the Pacific theater of the war are present.  World War II involved two distinct conflicts that involved different geographical boundaries and two different oceans - the Pacific and the Atlantic.  For some reason, it is only now that the horrors of the Pacific are now getting their due in order to present a more complete picture of a war that has been considered the \\"good war.\\"<br /><br />Dower's examination of race within a historical context is important in order to bring an understanding of why it existed.  WAR WITHOUT MERCY will continue to be criticized for its bias.  This is one reason why it should be recommended reading for anyone interested in the subject of race or US history.ry, it is controversial to re-create or revise history.  With the commemoration of the 60th anniversary of V-J Day, bias and unequal exposure of the conflicts that occurred during the Pacific theater of the war are present.  World War II involved two distinct conflicts that involved different geographical boundaries and two different oceans - the Pacific and the Atlantic.  For some reason, it is only now that the horrors of the Pacific are now getting their due in order to present a more complete picture of a war that has been considered the \\"good war.\\"    Dower's examination of race within a historical context is important in order to bring an understanding of why it existed.  WAR WITHOUT MERCY will continue to be criticized for its bias.  This is one reason why it should be recommended reading for anyone interested in the subject of race or US history.	2005-08-16
US	53060790	R8Q3AF449K5QD	0813923239	716904165	Pocahontas, Powhatan, Opechancanough: Three Indian Lives Changed by Jamestown	Books	4	20	22	N	N	Pieces of the Real Jamestown and its Major Players	The major theme of POCAHONTAS POWHATAN OPECHANCANOUGH:  THREE INDIAN LIVES CHANGED BY JAMESTOWN revolves around truth.  For each story that has been told about Virginia's Jamestown settlement or Pocahontas in general, its has centered on the Captain John Smith and Pocahontas legend and myth that has been overly romanticized in novels and in movies.  At this time, no scholar has made the attempt to intertwine the Indian voice within the English story of Jamestown. However, Helen Rountree attempts to provide the Native American voice, but from letters and accounts by English colonists and foreigners.  It is unfortunate that the Indians did not record their accounts of the arrival of these new world settlers, or as Rountree suggests, invaders.  Nonetheless, Rountree places the three major participants' semi-biographical accounts at the forefront of this study in order to incorporate their contribution to the settlement as well as the invasion of white colonists to the Indian landscape.<br /><br />Rountree examines these three major actors and their way of life from anthropological perspective.  Indeed, this is an historical narrative that deals with ethnohistory, but one that is \\" about one side only\\" (p. 6).  Historians study their subject matters in order to get to the bottom of how an event occurred and its end result - think in terms of the past while writing in the present.  Rountree takes the same approach, and studied the Powhatan side with why and how they acted the way they did.  Rountree is critical and frank about past accounts of the Jamestown story as told by historian, William Strachey, HISTORIE OF TRAVELL INTO VIRGINIA BRITANIA and his plagiarized version of John Smith's narrative, GENERALL HISTORIE, which takes an English perspective that downplays the Indian presence.  Rountree clarifies misconceptions that have been told within past narratives.<br /><br />Chronologically, the book covers the period from 1607 to 1644.  With these periods, one has a time frame to work with.  Rountree provides an in depth analysis of the inception and deterioration of relations between natives and colonists of the Virginia Company's settlement in Jamestown and the wars that concurred in 1622 and 1644.  The book shows how life was like before the colonists, and the significance of Powhatan daily rituals.  Rountree's expertise in so-called \\"digging deep\\" to the root of origins from an anthropological point of view allows the reader to understand how life was simple and structured for the Powhatans.  Rountree suggests that life only later became complicated when the Indians had to provide and teach the colonists how to survive.  In the process, both Indians and colonists discovered that their lifestyles and environments were different than what they had been accustomed to.<br /><br />For the sake of understanding, POCAHONTAS POWHATAN OPECHANCANOUGH will allow readers of history to see the bigger picture of the Jamestown story that took place three centuries ago.  Although this history has already passed, its legacy and myths continues to engage readers.  Helen Rountree should be commended for taken the task to reveal the real Pocahontas as human as possible and not as a Disney cutout, and to emphasize the predominant role of chief leader, Powhatan, and his successor or \\"brother\\", Opechancanough as essential actors in American history.rk with.   Rountree provides an in depth analysis of the inception and deterioration of relations between natives and colonists of the Virginia Company's settlement in Jamestown and the wars that concurred in 1622 and 1644.  The book shows how life was like before the colonists, and the significance of Powhatan daily rituals.  Rountree's expertise in so-called \\"digging deep\\" to the root of origins from an anthropological point of view allows the reader to understand how life was simple and structured for the Powhatans.  Rountree suggests that life only later became complicated when the Indians had to provide and teach the colonists how to survive.  In the process, both Indians and colonists discovered that their lifestyles and environments were different than what they had been accustomed to.    For the sake of understanding, POCAHONTAS POWHATAN OPECHANCANOUGH will allow readers of history to see the bigger picture of the Jamestown story that took place three centuries ago.  Although this history has already passed, its legacy and myths continues to engage readers.  Helen Rountree should be commended for taken the task to reveal the real Pocahontas as human as possible and not as a Disney cutout, and to emphasize the predominant role of chief leader, Powhatan, and his successor or \\"brother\\", Opechancanough as essential actors in American history.	2005-08-08
US	53060790	R3IRBRLRWGL5QQ	0521566827	616554070	Hiroshima in History and Memory	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	Collective Memory that Should Never be Forgotten	The bombing of Hiroshima was one of many horrific events that occurred in World War II and in human history.  World War II was a pivotal time, and only in the present are we able to look back and reflect on the event with a critical eye.  Michael J. Hogan's HIROSHIMA IN HISTORY AND MEMORY provides a collection of essays by cultural and diplomatic historians who analyzed the bombing of Hiroshima based on unclassified documents and past commentary that emphasized the how and why the bomb was dropped.  Although this historiographical collection is considered revisionist scholarship, it is by all means essential in order to understand the complicated decision that President Truman had to make in dropping the bomb, and the effects it has had decades after.<br /><br />Several essays reflect on how the bombing has affected commemoration of the event.  Without a clear understanding of Hiroshima from both Americans and Japanese, one cannot equally or fully commemorate or represent the bombing of Hiroshima.  The essays in HIROSHIMA AND HISTORY AND MEMORY attempts to present the facts within each essay, and each historian, such as J. Samuel Walker, John W. Dower, Barton J. Bernstein, and a host of others emphasize that the decision to drop the bomb and end the war did not only involve justifying saving military casualties, but the fear of an imminent power on the rise -- the Soviet Union (despite their position as an allie at the time, their possible invasion would have helped the Japanese surrender).<br /><br />HIROSHIMA IN HISTORY AND MEMORY examines basic history as it pertains to the bombing of Hiroshima.  The essays are readable and understandable.  The events that occurred in August 1945 in Hiroshima and Nagasaki are two major historical events that continue to be a discussion of debate.	2005-08-06
US	53060790	R1JWP368OV4PY5	0789300729	330174401	Fallingwater: Frank Lloyd Wright's Romance with Nature	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Brick by Brick in Touch with Nature	Lynda S. Waggoner presents an alluring collection of photographs and commentary that will interest the architect or anyone who's had an eye for the artistical-architectural renderings of the legendary work of Frank Lloyd Wright. As curator and administrator, Waggoner's first hand accounts of Fallingwater provides the reader with an up-close narrative behind and inside the home with the basic origins of the construction and inspiration that led to the inception of Wright's American masterpiece; he blended both nineteenth century natural observations that derived from Walt Whitman to Henry David Thoreau with landscape.<br /><br />FALLING WATER provides insight to Frank Lloyd's inspiration of constructing Fallingwater.  In essence, he wanted to reconnect with nature and the nineteenth century romanticism of the wilderness, but with the natural expressions that were innate and organic; one may suggest he possessed an inkling of eastern inspiration.  The several quotes throughout the book from Whitman, Thoreau, Emerson, Rushkin, and as well Wright and Edward Kaufmann, Jr. will provide a perfect poetic composition that complements the beautiful photographs of the house and the outlining natural landscape.  Wright says it best:  \\"In the realm of organic architecture human imagination must render the harsh language of structure into becomingly humane expressions of form instead of devising inanimate facades or rattling bones of construction.  Poetry of form is as necessary to great architecture as foliage is to the tree, blossoms to the plant or flesh to the body\\" (23).<br /><br />So, if you are looking for a coffee table book that does not leave a lot of clutter, FALLING WATER:  FRANK LLOYD WRIGHT'S ROMANCE WITH NATURE will definitely provide the balance.  It is a little book packed with much content.  And most likely, it will leave you wanting to share it with others.	2005-07-30
US	53060790	RZ72353FY6HW6	0813916909	691550438	Free Blacks in Norfolk Virginia 1790-1860: The Darker Side of Freedom (Carter G. Woodson Institute Series in Black Studies)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Second Time Around	Just when you think a topic is not worth pursuing, a little light bulb comes on that pushes one to take the next step. Free Blacks in Norfolk Virginia 1790-1860:  The Darker Side of Freedom examines social history with respect to free slaves. Tommy L. Bogger offers a different kind of scholarship, which involves manumission, slaves paying their way to freedom. Bogger continues research on the issue of post-slavery before the Civil War that scholars neglected in the past. As the subtitle states, \\"The Darker Side of Freedom\\", is indeed a true fallacy that Bogger emphasizes throughout the book that involves remnants of enslavement and the lack of opportunity that remained prevalent for those who attempted to live and financially prosper in the city of Norfolk. Literally, they lived in the \\"shadows\\" from their white neighbors despite the fact that they were skilled and educated workers. Bogger goes through the evolution of change for Blacks in Norfolk from vibrant optimism to a sense of letdown.  For the most part, they too experienced the economic woes that occurred in the city and the influx of European immigrants arriving in the United States who wanted to start a new life as well. Ironically, this dilemma eventually led them to flee the North or further to the South to pursue a better life where they could build and actively participate in communities of their own, which would also contribute to American society as a whole.<br /><br />The concluding chapters presents much insight to the dwindling situation that Blacks experienced during the nineteenth century.  Bogger shows how death and disillusionment took a toll amongst Blacks, and to add to their uncompromising situations, the Yellow Fever epidemic in 1855 occurred, which left thousands dead. However, what is so surprising is that less Blacks died from the disease because their access to free vaccinations.<br /><br />Overall, Free Blacks in Norfolk is well researched and documented. Bogger takes much of his accounts from unbiased court documents, but it would have been more helpful if there were more authentic voices within his narrative.accounts from unbiased court documents, but it would have been more helpful if there were more authentic voices within his narrative. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-07-28
US	53060790	R1IKBJ37YO775B	1560987804	659228959	Snow in America	Books	4	5	5	N	Y	Snow and the American Landscape	Bernard Mergen's Snow in America puts the subject of snow under the microscope.  He meticulously analyzes its significance in terms of cultural history -- historical, literary, artistical scientific, political, and recreational usage within the American landscape.  This is an extensive piece of scholarship that is well researched with much detail.  Mergen suggests that the book was specifically written to tell the story of snow and the responses to it, and how it relates to its importance to other issues.  He admits that snow has not invoked a sense of appreciation as water, but with Snow in America, he attempts to define the truth about it (xii).<br /><br />One of the most interesting aspect of the book are the quotes that begin each chapter.  They derive from excerpts from well-known poems from literary giants, such as Ralph Waldo Emerson and Wallace Stevens, which have centered on the subject of snow.  Mergen writes of snow's historical significance in the first four chapters of the book, and conveys to the reader the origins of metaphors and symbolism of snow came about. The concluding chapter, \\"The Modern Minds of Winter,\\" critiques and analyzes snow as it pertains to literature and art. And the amazing part of the book are the many illustrations that document the beauty and picturesque quality of this natural substance.  However, Mergen, suprisingly, did not include one picture by Currier and Ives or elaborates on their significance to a snow covered landscape.<br /><br />Snow in America will be a delight to read during the dog days of summer as well as during any season of the year.  For the sake of curiosity, it is a welcome to read.  In general, the book will also serve as an important reference tool on the subject of snow in any genre.	2005-07-12
US	53060790	R2LNUNEHCC2MPW	0140447601	52646609	Democracy in America and Two Essays on America (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	71	78	N	N	On the Road to Contemplation with Aristocracy and Democracy	Alexis de Tocqueville looks at the United States and examines its political, social, and cultural intricacies in DEMOCRACY IN AMERICA AND TWO ESSAYS ON AMERICA.  This edition of DEMOCRACY IN AMERICA is well introduced and translated by Gerald Bevan and Isaac Kramnick.  This is not a basic travelogue of a French aristocrat -Intellect - statesman's journey through the American wilderness in a span of nine months, but it is a significant documentary that compares and contrasts European Aristocracy to American Democracy.  At the time that Tocqueville wrote DEMOCRACY IN AMERICA, both Europe and the United States experienced an enormous shift in its political and social structure.  On the US side, several events occurred, Andrew Jackson was president, the Anti-Slavery movement, Indian Removal commenced, immigration was on the rise, and the industrial age was emerging; for the French and European side, the Revolution of 1830 and autocracy took precedence as well as a radical shake-up of the social class.  Possibly, for Tocqueville his travels to the United States served as a respite from France's revolutionary tendencies, and the opportunity to observe US history in the making.  In terms of chronology, 55 years after the signing of the Declaration of Independence and 30 years before the Civil War.  In essence, Tocqueville's accounts bear much significance to how the United States progressed, and  where it was headed.<br /><br />Tocqueville writes and thinks in a Jeffersonian stance.  With Bevan's translation, the book is readable.  Throughout DEMOCRACY IN AMERICA Tocqueville suggests that productivity cannot occur while a man remains idle, and that action must take place in some form or another - the rule of law or through communication.  No doubt, this annotates Jeffersonian politics and ideology.  However, the basic premise throughout the book concentrates on the difference between Democracy and Aristocracy and their relationships to the social classes of each respective ideology, and how each accomplished and achieved effectiveness.  Tocqueville looked toward America as a model to post-revolutionary France (back cover of the Penguin edition), and one may say that this was an exchange of politics and ideas that the United States had done a century before; this was a shared entity.<br /><br />DEMOCRACY IN AMERICA should be required reading.  However, with its large volume, two volumes, small increments should be divided into separate reading sessions in order to understand the gist of Tocqueville's purpose of critiquing America's political system. The most exemplary aspect of the book is how Tocqueville speaks rhetorically in a no nonsense way as well as its timelessness, which will further entice readers to read on.  As an added treat, the appendices and the two most important essays of the book pertaining to Tocqueville's encounters with the Iroquois and Chippeway Indians should not be overlooked.gy, and how each accomplished and achieved effectiveness.  Tocqueville looked toward America as a model to post-revolutionary France (back cover of the Penguin edition), and one may say that this was an exchange of politics and ideas that the United States had done a century before; this was a shared entity.       DEMOCRACY IN AMERICA should be required reading.  However, with its large volume, two volumes, small increments should be divided into separate reading sessions in order to understand the gist of Tocqueville's purpose of critiquing America's political system. The most exemplary aspect of the book is how Tocqueville speaks rhetorically in a no nonsense way as well as its timelessness, which will further entice readers to read on.   As an added treat, the appendices and the two most important essays of the book pertaining to Tocqueville's encounters with the Iroquois and Chippeway Indians should not be overlooked.	2005-06-26
US	53060790	R123AD71C5497	0316172324	968642731	Blink: The Power of Thinking Without Thinking	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Look, Listen, or Just Read It	Malcolm Gladwell's  BLINK:  THE POWER OF THINKING WITHOUT THINKING offers a smorgasbourd of short essays in this extremely short book.  The main premise of the book emphasizes on the power of intuition and snap judgments when making decisions, and especially first impressions which may not always achieve successful results depending on a particular situation and experience one has had in the past.  In two examples, Gladwell uses Warren G. Harding, and the extremely unfortunate case of Amadou Diallo in determining that one cannot be judged by his appearance --race or good looks.  In the end, these two examples led to uncalculated failure as a result of inexperience.<br /><br />Gladwell does not present ground breaking new hypotheses, but rather allows readers to think, \\"what if...\\"  He reevaluates the evidence that each case study has previously concluded with, and shows in a reader friendly analysis that any person, regardless of their educational or social background, will either understand or gain new insight on a particular subject, such as assessing validity and authenticity of an ancient artifact, or picking the next \\"big thing\\" in the music business.  If at all, BLINK may cause readers to reevaluate their own way of thinking.<br /><br />Overall, BLINK will enlighten any reader that attempts to read it.  It's an exceptional book that only takes a couple of hours to complete.  Most likely, the book will allow those who read it to engage in further discussion or to probe each issue with a critical eye.	2005-06-05
US	53060790	R2ZDKQLUJ9X17M	0440304245	477593969	American Caesar	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Essential Biography in Understanding a Leader	William Manchester examines the life of General Douglas MacArthur.  AMERICAN CAESAR, DOUGLAS MACARTHUR, 1880-1964 begins with his birth and ends with his death.  For anyone that has an interest in reading about military leaders, or in general, leaders of the twentieth-century, AMERICAN CAESAR and its 793 pages, is an excellent starting point. One thing that comes to mind when one thinks of General Douglas MacArthur is how he has been misunderstood by those who have not spent the time to read or understand who the man really was.  For every leader that has passed through history, one always finds a way to tarnish the image of a leader and to debunk the myth and legend.  Writers and critics have written about MacArthur's downfall as well as his own self-interest and egotism or juicy tidbits of his personal life.  Where would the label of greatness be without those traits?  AMERICAN CAESAR contains all those subjects, but with much respect to the man.<br /><br />However, AMERICAN CAESAR portrays General MacArthur's unique personality as an individual with much emphasis on the man and the compassion and determination he possessed with the people and countries he associated with.  It is these traits, which hold much prestige over the one controversy in Korea that existed near the end of his service.  Manchester carefully paths MacArthur's life , and takes from other scholarships, archival material as well as from MacArthur's memoir, REMINISCENCES, to acquaint readers with the man and the many experiences he encountered during his tenure as one most of the highly decorated generals in US history.  Manchester uses the moniker of \\"Caesar\\" and historical references to great leaders throughout the book, such as Napoleon, Lincoln, U.S. Grant in comparing and paralleling MacArthur's life to particular conflicts these leaders overcame or not to his own.  As an avid reader of history, MacArthur thrived on history. Manchester states that MacArthur once told a reporter that his only advisors were Abraham Lincoln and George Washington, and emphasized that \\"one founded the United States, the other saved it\\" (479).  This may have been suggesting that he was in good company with men of great acclimation and sought to reach the levels that they had achieved.<br /><br />Manchester does a fine job presenting all aspects of MacArthur's life and the players that brought him up as well as brought him down.  For a man who greatly helped rid the world from imperialistic tyranny by the Japanese during the war in the Pacific, he helped Japan to reconstruct its government and country to what it is today.  Who could predict what may have happened if MacArthur maintained his position in Korea?  For a man that lived in the Pacific and Asian theatre for 14 years, and took more precedence over the study of this region of the world, he may have known more about how the people thought militarily than the men in Washington. Many hypotheses will pop-up while reading this immense book.  Nonetheless, MacArthur was led on a mission to rid the world of war and accomplished it, and later in his life spoke against it.sors were Abraham Lincoln and George Washington, and emphasized that \\"one founded the United States, the other saved it\\" (479).  This may have been suggesting that he was in good company with men of great acclimation and sought to reach the levels that they had achieved.    Manchester does a fine job presenting all aspects of MacArthur's life and the players that brought him up as well as brought him down.  For a man who greatly helped rid the world from imperialistic tyranny by the Japanese during the war in the Pacific, he helped Japan to reconstruct its government and country to what it is today.  Who could predict what may have happened if MacArthur maintained his position in Korea?  For a man that lived in the Pacific and Asian theatre for 14 years, and took more precedence over the study of this region of the world, he may have known more about how the people thought militarily than the men in Washington. Many hypotheses will pop-up while reading this immense book.  Nonetheless, MacArthur was led on a mission to rid the world of war and accomplished it, and later in his life spoke against it.	2005-05-30
US	53060790	R1IUGRU6YRZ57J	0684869950	634024051	Republic of Dreams : Greenwich Village: The American Bohemia, 1910-1960	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A Glorious Yet Tragic Life of the Village	Ross Wetzsteon examines the remarkable life of a handful of distinctive writers and artists that made Greenwich Village for what it was - a refuge for the bohemians that came from all points of the United States from 1910-1960.  REPUBLIC OF DREAMS tells the story of the core of writers that drifted in an out of the Village during its most creative and innovative period, and displays an intimate and intense portrait of the most vibrant time in literary and cultural history.  Wetzsteon brings the Village alive with the numerous stories that offer a glimpse of the person behind the person, which presents each writer or artist as humanly as possible -- self-absorbed, narcissistic, and always striving to maintain marginality as a means to creativity in their insular middle class upbringing (568).  He parallels the difficult and at times, the idiosyncratic experiences that each subject faced to their spontaneous creativity.  Hauntingly, their lives mirrored the novels and poems that they wrote may have followed the moniker of \\"live hard and die young.\\"  It is unfortunate that this became true for writers, such as Hart Crane, e.e. cummings, Jackson Pollack, and Dylan Thomas.  However, others lived over the age of 50 despite living with their insane demons -- John Gould, Djuna Barnes, and Edna St. Vincent Millay; while others lived the starving artist life - William Carlos Williams and the Eminent Villagers mentioned in chapters six and chapter seven.<br /><br />REPUBLIC OF DREAMS contains and immense collection of stories that Wetzsteon painstakingly compiled and researched.  It is unfortunate that it isn't a complete narrative, but comes close in spite of Wetzsteon's untimely death in 1998, which is mentioned in the Afterword.  This could have been volume one of a two volume set due to the enormous content of the book, 619 (569 of narrative) pages.  The period in which he presents spans 50 years of Village life, and he does not cover every character that lived within this vicious circle of unrestrained eccentricity and vitality. Despite the number of pages, that should not discount anyone from exploring this important part of Americana.  No one can say that these inhabitants of the Village lived a lackluster life, but one that overflowed with great extremity.ous circle of unrestrained eccentricity and vitality. Despite the number of pages, that should not discount anyone from exploring this important part of Americana.  No one can say that these inhabitants of the Village lived a lackluster life, but one that overflowed with great extremity.	2005-05-10
US	53060790	R3E1QO3BKP0XIG	1585671185	236576278	MacArthur and Defeat in the Philippines	Books	3	7	11	N	Y	Romanticism of Duty and Downfall	Richard Connaughton examines General Douglas MacArthur's military involvement in the Philippines before and during the early activities of US involvement during World War II.  MACARTHUR AND DEFEAT IN THE PHILIPPINES is the prequal to Connaughton's THE BATTLE FOR MANILA, a straightforward assessment of the liberation of the Philippines in February 1945, and captures a more detail depiction of MacArthur's experience in Manila and what brought him to the islands as a child when his father was military governor as well as his last visit as Lieutenant General of the United States Army Forces in the Far East (USAFFE).  The most important aspect of the book centers on the different stages and steps in which MacArthur made at an attempt to build up the Philippine Army and his alliance with Philippine president, Manuel Quezon.  But Connaughton suggests, in spite of the strenuous efforts to build a standing army in one area of confict, the Philippine military simply could not measure up to the strength of the Japanese military by the time the Philippines was attacked on December 8, 1941, a day after Pearl Harbor, which would leave one of many destructions to hit the islands before the war's end.<br /><br />MACARTHUR DEFEAT IN THE PHILIPPINES is well-documented research.  However, Connaughton includes accounts of MacArthur's personal life in the preceding chapters, which had been previously mentioned in other biographies, and provides an image behind the heroic figure in a way to exhibit his weaknesses as a military leader, especially during the conflict on Corregidor.  Connaughton suggests that MacArthur's leadership style may have been something of the past -- a nineteenth-century style military leader who's time had come to make room for the changing of the guard; this may have been one of many reasons for the defeat on the islands and the overshadowing presence of Eisenhower. Despite numerous assumptions about MacArthur's leadership, one thing remains true, MacArthur`s undying love with the Philippines and his effort to protect the island and its people.<br /><br />MACARTHUR AND DEFEAT IN THE PHILIPPINES is an essential addition for those interested in understanding the conflict in the Philippines during World War II as well as for General MacArthur history buffs. Although the book is not a definitive study, it provides a little more information that had not been previously published.e with the Philippines and his effort to protect the island and its people.    MACARTHUR AND DEFEAT IN THE PHILIPPINES is an essential addition for those interested in understanding the conflict in the Philippines during World War II as well as for General MacArthur history buffs. Although the book is not a definitive study, it provides a little more information that had not been previously published.	2005-04-20
US	53060790	R22SXNGJV11WTX	0809097052	544761506	Who Owns History?: Rethinking the Past in a Changing World	Books	4	1	2	N	N	The Significance of Reassessing the Past	History has many complexities.  American history has even more complexities.  Eric Foner examines history under a microscope with WHO OWNS HISTORY?  RETHINKING THE PAST IN A CHANGING WORLD by presenting nine essays that present issues and subject matters that have had a professional and personal affect on his life.  The first section of the book presents a short vignette of his life as well as the life of one of his mentor's, Richard Hofstadter.  The second section takes on a global perspective by reassessing the aftermath of the Cold War in Russia and post-Apartheid South Africa, the culture wars in the US, and the concluding chapters reflect on what has been near and dear to his heart in terms of scholarly work - Reconstruction era and Slavery.  He includes a compelling essay on the significance of Blacks and the US Constitution, which ties in with his critique on Ken Burn's incomplete adaptation of the Civil War.<br /><br />Foner tells it like it is while at the same time allowing the reader to ponder and question his criticism.  He leaves the door open for further discussion without sounding too preachy.  As the subtitle reiterates, Rethinking the Past in a Changing World, is about digging much deeper beyond the surface and asking questions that go beyond well told stories of the past, and asking, what about?  Of course history cannot be without the well told stories, but he turns another notch to the historical narrative by including histories that simply haven't been given their due, such as contributions African-Americans have had during Reconstruction or recent histories, such as what impact or little impact did the ending of the Cold War have on Russians.<br /><br />Foner does not answer the question to WHO OWNS HISTORY, but it is indeed up to the historian or the avid reader of history to go on a scavenger hunt to research and understand a particular event in history.  He suggests, in similar terms, that no one person or people have possession of the subject matter, but rather it is a collective and shared entity.subject matter, but rather it is a collective and shared entity.   <br />	2005-04-07
US	53060790	R2HON2VDGRWRWA	0253215021	356329370	Radical Spirits: Spiritualism and Women's Rights in Nineteenth-Century America, Second Edition	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	Nineteenth Century Religion and Activism in the Making	The nineteenth century was the most radical and revolutionary period for women in American society.  Ann Braude's RADICAL SPIRITS:  SPRITUALISM AND WOMEN'S RIGHTS IN NINETEENTH-CENTURY AMERICA examines the development and progression of women's rights as it pertained to religion and spirituality; when combined, they provided women the pulpit and the voice to participate in a society where they had been previoulsy confined to duties in the home.  Indeed, women and feminism emerged from the churches and beckoned to the calls from women seeking an outlet to be emancipated from both a hierarchical church environment and a patriarchal home environment.<br /><br />RADICAL SPIRITS attempts and succeeds at relating religion and women's history within the context of American history.  The most unique aspect of this scholarship is the inclusion of the subject matter of religion and spiritual mediums.  Mediums had an enormous effect on women's suffrage, and escalated and accounted for women's leadership in the community.  Despite the fact that the most notable leaders of women's rights, Susan B. Anthony and Elizabeth Cady Stanton did not necessarily participate in such activities, Braude takes into account those closely related to them: Anna Blackwell, Sarah Anthony Burtis, Mary Ann and Thomas Mclintock, and Lucretia Mott's dinner guests, a way to suggest that religion played a significant role in encouraging activism (xxi). RADICAL SPIRITS acknowledges religion and spiritualism in women's activities, and helps to present a better understanding of what shaped and molded women's rights in the United States during the nineteenth century.	2005-03-30
US	53060790	R1D2LPB048TTU0	0811214885	882983195	New Collected Poems	Books	4	8	10	N	Y	Objectivist Poems For Further Reading	George Oppen's New Collected Poems is an updated version of Oppens' 1979 Collected Poems.  The Pulitzer Prize poet takes the reader through a journey of his life.  The poems have a distinct trait, which are based on Oppen's treaded and somewhat nomadic life that he lived along with his wife, Mary.  The Introduction of the book offers tidbits of an adventurous and well-travelled man as well as his controversial political leanings with communism and anti-fascism.  Despite that fact, Oppen wrote each poem with a sense of time and place, and one may easily identify where he was geographically, New York, Mexico, or California and what he was writing about.  In essence, he writes with the world in mind and its many intricacies.<br /><br />The most distinctive aspect of his poems is his reference to the war experience.  As a veteran of World War II, Oppen reflects on the lasting affect the theatre of war had on him as well as the fury of the Cold War during the 1950s. He displays this in poems that are included in The Materials collection.  In addition, Oppen offers a storm of socially political poems which may be the capstone of New Collected Poems.  Oppen's 40 section, 1969 prize winning book, Of Being Numerous, provides his voice of opposition to the war in Vietnam; the illustrious distinction for his work allowed wider audience to become exposed it. This collection also includes Oppen's last published book, Primitive and unpublished poems.  The last portion of the book provides a run down and analysis of each collection.<br /><br />New Collected Poems offers much to be discussed.  However, for every reader that obtains a copy, there will always be a different perspectives to Oppen's work even if you aren't a poetic theorist.  Michael Davidson states: \\"They are often abstract, as mysterious as koans, a sea-surge of contradictory forces:  assertions and their negations, declarations couched in double negatives, questions without answers, straightforward observations placed next to gnomic statements whose beauty lingers forever because they are never fully understood\\" (preface, x).  If that may be a handful, this collection of poems may nurture your mind toward other poems and poets.<br /><br />Nevertheless, Oppen does a find job of meshing together history and literature in his poems, which was an added plus for this reader.ic statements whose beauty lingers forever because they are never fully understood\\" (preface, x).  If that may be a handful, this collection of poems may nurture your mind toward other poems and poets.      Nevertheless, Oppen does a find job of meshing together history and literature in his poems, which was an added plus for this reader.	2005-03-23
US	53060790	R2WHOR1PMI7XY5	0140277447	803730078	The Rape of Nanking: The Forgotten Holocaust of World War II	Books	5	30	35	N	N	Awareness and Forgetfulness in History	Iris Chang's The Rape of Nanking:  The Forgotten Holocaust of World War II examines one of history's atrocities under the microscope.  By looking at the cover of the book, one may not be able to decipher what the cover depicts if one hasn't studied or read about the Chinese holocaust that occurred before World War II was officially declared in 1939.  One can only think that the picture depicts dead fish along the ground.  However, that is not the case, and it is the gruesome reality of what can happen in times of conflict.  The Japanese proceeded in creating havoc in Manchuria in December 1937 in order to attain territorial and imperialistic power over the Chinese.<br /><br />Chang's well-documented narrative of the Rape of Nanking is a powerful book that can either move you or make you think about  history that has already passed.  The Rape of Nanking is one of those events in history that has been debated and challenged by Japanese historians in telling the truth about Nanking by non-Japanese researchers or even those who actually lived through the experience.  Through Chang's narrative, she pleads to her readers that this event indeed happened and revisionists working to debunk the facts are working on a thin red line when they taint history in order to paint a \\"pretty\\" picture of their own history.  History is not complete unless the entire big picture is presented.<br /><br />The Rape of Nanking is indeed another piece of the puzzle in telling the history of World War II.  As more evidence is presented to what occurred before Pearl Harbor, there will be a better understanding to what eventually occurred on August 9, 1945 and after.  Those who read the book should be forewarned of the graphic narrative as well as the photographs.  Nonetheless, this is a highly recommended book.	2005-03-13
US	53060790	R2GPQ55S63PH92	1556591608	955176103	The Book of Questions	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Questions Without One Definitive Answer	Pablo Neruda's BOOK OF QUESTIONS is one of those books that  simply cannot be read just once.  Though the poems are short, they are questions that make you ponder and think about through out the day.  Neruda covers just about everything, such as politics, society, nature, and life in general.<br /><br />The most enlightening thing about poetry, especially Neruda's style of writing poetry, is that it lends itself to much interpretation.  Anyone that reads this book will have their own answer and interpretation of what they think Neruda was trying to convey.  For example, Neruda has a knack for covering politics.  He writes:<br /><br />\\"How did the grapes come to know<br />the cluster's party line?<br /><br />And do you know which is harder,<br />to let run to seed or to do the picking?<br /><br />It is bad to live without a hell:<br />aren't we able to reconstruct it?<br /><br />And to position sad Nixon<br />with his buttocks over the brazier?<br /><br />Roasting him on low<br />with North American napalm?\\"  (p.18)<br /><br />For the most part, the book has a zen-like quality, which suggests a complexity to the poems -- the sense of not-knowing, and moving towards intuitive perceptions, beyond rehearsed patterns of thinking and feeling (viii).  In a way, it appears complex, but at the same time liberating.  Neruda's poetry is simple in its structure.<br /><br />Beyond analysis, BOOK OF QUESTIONS is also helpful for anyone trying to refresh their memory to read and write in spanish.  The translations are wonderful and practical.  I recommend this book as well as other books by Neruda because of this added bonus.	2005-03-06
US	53060790	R139XT3I897YIX	0060933291	45372276	Sandy Koufax: A Lefty's Legacy	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Legend in his Time	The big wide world of sports has produced an elusive array of legends that have spanned generations.  Jane Leavy takes a compassionate look at the life of legendary baseball pitcher, Sandy Koufax, in her definitive biography, SANDY KOUFAX:  A LEFTY'S LEGACY.  She shows reader the sports legend as well as the individual.  From Ebbets Field in Brooklyn, New York, to Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles, California, Koufax led the Dodgers through several successful wins throughout his baseball career as the so-called pitcher with golden arm.  And his looks and his demeanor, personally and athletically, did not hurt him to gain admirers and fans alike; his fellow teammates often called him \\"the game's Cary Grant and Fred Astaire and compared him to the Mona Lisa and David...He looked like Michaelangelo,\\" Ernie Banks said.  \\"Pitching, walking, whatever he did was kind of a rhythm with life, stylish\\" (2).<br /><br />One of the interesting aspect of the book is how Leavy comments on the social and cultural climate of the mid-late '50s and early-mid '60s. She intertwines Koufax's life with the the pivotal events and people who helped shaped this part of popular American culture.  Indeed, Leavy immerses readers into Koufax's life and the people who knew him the best.<br /><br />After reading this fascinating biography, it makes one wonder, are there any legends anymore?	2005-03-04
US	53060790	R35KO5HFBF6YSJ	0316105848	755102072	Flyboys: A True Story of Courage	Books	4	8	12	N	N	Understanding the Pacific Front	Flyboys:  A True Story of Courage is one of many examples that has further opened the doors to understanding what occurred during the Pacific War of World War II.  The basic premise of the book is the story about nine US pilots that led a mission to combat the Japanese military, but met their terrible demise when they became POWs on the island of Chichi Jima.  Their story bears similarities to something out of a Sci-Fi novel -- Jules Verne or H.G. Welles, but their story was real and horrendous.  It is a chilling story that begins with the these pilots' story before the war, and ends with the aftermath of the war.<br /><br />Bradley revisits this part of history in order to address the Pacific aspect of WWII, and to present the voices of the guilty and the victims that came from both the US as well as the Japanese side that previously had not been disclosed to the public.  The most controversial part of the book was the detailed and vivid descriptions of the pilots' executions by the Japanese soldiers.  This was the most powerful part of the book that will make you wonder, was this the reason why the war had to end immediately with the atomic bomb?  Bradley suggests that the uncalculated acts by the Japanese military and the enormous US casualties far more exceeded the European front, and General Curtis LeMay was \\"itching\\" to deter the war as soon as possible. Bradley states, \\" ...Curtis did not think a moral boundary was crossed.  Later he wondered if people thought it \\"much more wicked to kill people with a nuclear bomb, than to kill by busting their heads with a rocks.  I suppose they believe also that a machine gun is a hundred times wickeder than a bow and arrow\\" (297).<br /><br />There is a lot of historical references that Bradely makes in order to relate them back to the incident on Chichi Jima.  He goes all the way back to Matthew Perry's Expedition on Chichi Jimi in 1853, and proceeds to other related incidences that have occurred between the US and the Japanese.  The drawback of the book was this ineffective approach of trying to draw them all together to present a concise narrative.  It may have been helpful if he added a little anthropological evidence on why the Japanese soldiers had a \\"warrior-like\\" quality that was somewhat beastly.  The last remaining chapters attempts to close this chapter in history, but also suggests that there are more stories that still need to be told.<br /><br />Flyboys is not only for military history buffs, but anyone who's interested in wanting to understand what WWII was about in the Pacific.  It will definitely open your eyes.wback of the book was this ineffective approach of trying to draw them all together to present a concise narrative.  It may have been helpful if he added a little anthropological evidence on why the Japanese soldiers had a \\"warrior-like\\" quality that was somewhat beastly.  The last remaining chapters attempts to close this chapter in history, but also suggests that there are more stories that still need to be told.    Flyboys is not only for military history buffs, but anyone who's interested in wanting to understand what WWII was about in the Pacific.  It will definitely open your eyes.	2005-03-02
US	53060790	R2OVFYNY7BMG3Z	0805050272	654416739	killing rage: Ending Racism (Owl Book)	Books	5	13	17	N	N	Facing Racism Head On	Bell Hooks covers all bases with the most pertinent issues that involve racism.  KILLING RAGE:  ENDING RACISM is an interesting critical assessment that does not only involve African Americans, but all Americans who want to understand why racism still exists.  Three major issues in the book remain in my mind and were constantly repeated in most of the chapters: self-determination, White Supremacy, and decolonization.  These issues, according to Hooks, are the root and the action for resolve in understanding the racism in the United States.  For a long time, the \\"R\\" word has been an invisible subject, that never comes to a resolve when it is discussed -- a neverending circle.  Hooks suggests that there is a sense of denial or amnesia.<br /><br />Hooks makes a good point when she discusses the issue of race as it pertains whether or not black and white women can be friends.  She concludes:  \\"If white and black women were collectively working to change society so that we could know one another better and be able to offer acknowledgment and respect, then we would be playing a major role in ending racism.  As long as white and black women are content with living separately in a state of psychic social apartheid, racism will not change\\"(224).  She goes on about patriarchy and sexism, which tend to be the where incohesiveness exists.  However, white and black women relations have more in common in ending the gap by building a bridge toward activism.<br /><br />For the most part, when it all comes down to it, everything that Hooks discusses leads to \\"let's face\\" the problem of racism.  She states that it is possible, and it all depends on the individual, and building a community that educates and talks about learning about racism and how to deter it.  KILLING RAGE is one of many books that critically analyzes racism, and Hooks' criticism was extremely understandable and directly to the point.<br /><br />However, the book may have been more effective if she provided the voices, such as oral testimonies, of the people that have helped to deter the problem.  The majority of the sources she used were predominantly secondary sources from previous scholarship.  She makes assumptions, which contribute to a little gray areas in the book, such as when she briefly refers to non-blacks and how they may fit into the equation -- Native Americans and Asians.  But overall, this is an important subject that needs attention as long as the problem exists.the voices, such as oral testimonies, of the people that have helped to deter the problem.  The majority of the sources she used were predominantly secondary sources from previous scholarship.  She makes assumptions, which contribute to a little gray areas in the book, such as when she briefly refers to non-blacks and how they may fit into the equation -- Native Americans and Asians.  But overall, this is an important subject that needs attention as long as the problem exists.	2005-02-23
US	53060790	R1W9TSHMVKAN8B	0395150825	503862885	Paddle-to-the-Sea	Books	5	26	27	N	Y	A Journey Down the Great Lakes and Beyond	I remember encountering Paddle to the Sea as a second grader in Oregon.  It's one of those books that was shared during library day, and I still haven't forgotten it.  It was significant to me as a child, and it's still significant today.  It's the wonder and amazement of how a  wooden carved canoe with its lone Indian paddler referred to as \\"Paddle\\" could journey from his origins, Nipigon Country, to the Sea towards the Grand Bank and France, could confront eye-popping experiences.  Paddle sees the serene sounds of the cool Canadian waters, and the bewilderment of man's progress with a sawmill and its smoke-pipe buildings, which author, Holling Clancy Holling, ferociously describes as a monster eating away nature's domain -- tearing down trees and running an assembly line of log jams.<br /><br />Despite that scene, Paddle to the Sea contains imagery and imagination, which makes the book memorable.  The artwork is great, and Holling's very descriptive language and familiarity of geography makes this book a learning experience.  I found chapter 24 to be quite interesting because of its short snippet of history -- the discovery of the Great Lakes region, Champlain \\"the Father of New France\\" and the Iroquois.  Every chapter in the book, all twenty seven, covers each different region that Paddle flows through, and bears significance to how the free-flowing waters, be it Lake Superior or the crashing waters of the Gulf of St. Lawrence, cannot stop a wooden canoe and its Indian paddler from riding through.<br /><br />Every child should read Paddle to the Sea, or have it read to them.  And as for older children or adults that still want to revisit their curiosity of imagination, they will definitely find it unforgettable.  You never forget about the books that touch you in some way.	2005-02-13
US	53060790	R24QTFEUA20RV6	0679440755	773154674	The Fifth Book of Peace	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Peace Starts Within	Maxine Hong Kingston's The Fifth Book of Peace exhibits a journey through human conscience.  Kingston lost the manuscript to her Fourth Book of Peace in a house fire in 1991, and through the process of reviving or regurgitating the contents of the book, she came up with The Fifth Book of Peace. The contents of this book was inspired by Kingston's personal experiences, such as the loss of her father, coincidently, Kingston returned home from her father's funeral only to see her neighborhood in a blaze of fire, as well as Vietnam Veterans' accounts of the war and during a writer's workshop that Kingston hosted.<br /><br />The Fifth Book of Peace derives from Kingston's own view of war from a noncombatant and rather bistander perspective intertwines the issue of war and human suffering that come from thought and memory -- World War II, the bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, and the first Iraq War.  Possibly, she is attempting to encourage thinking and awareness. It is the overtones of education that Kingston states are the purpose or reason for being, \\"Educate America.  Teach everybody\\"(60).  Although these are the words taken from her mother as she asks Kingston about her purpose in life, \\"What have you done to educate America?  Have you finished educating the world yet?  You go educate America?\\" (60)<br /><br />The book is divided into three enormous chapters that can be considered three separate books.  There is plenty of information within these chapters that change in tone, and may take some quiet reading time to discern which parts are fiction and which parts are autobiographical.  The first chapter, Fire, is the introduction to The Fifth Book of Peace, and presents an inkling of where the book will proceed.  There is much dialogue between the characters in the book, as well as dialects and ethnic references to describe the characters and people that helped Kingston write the book.<br /><br />The book has quite a number of notable passages, and one particular passage may possibly sum up the book:  \\"Peace begins in thought.  Thoughts enworded go from mind to mind, and mind makes the world.  Peace, illusive, abstract, negative Yin, dream, would take a long writing-out to make real.  Its book has to be longer than war books -- longer than a bumper sticker, longer than a sound bite.  As we read, neuropeptides in the brain grow longer, longer than in nonreaders.  Though becomes body. Sudden fast change is a method of war.  The logic of peace has to be spoken out at length\\" (54).<br /><br />I recommend this book for the pure purpose of expanding your mind or to add another perspective to the meaning of war.lar passage may possibly sum up the book:  \\"Peace begins in thought.  Thoughts enworded go from mind to mind, and mind makes the world.  Peace, illusive, abstract, negative Yin, dream, would take a long writing-out to make real.  Its book has to be longer than war books -- longer than a bumper sticker, longer than a sound bite.  As we read, neuropeptides in the brain grow longer, longer than in nonreaders.  Though becomes body. Sudden fast change is a method of war.  The logic of peace has to be spoken out at length\\" (54). <br /> <br />I recommend this book for the pure purpose of expanding your mind or to add another perspective to the meaning of war.	2005-02-05
US	53060790	R2ZDKSGSZ03EQH	0609609521	584898629	When the Elephants Dance: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Another Dimension of Philippine-American History	Tess Uriza Holthe's When The Elephants Dance:  A Novel is yet another form of literature that uses history as the backdrop of the story, but it is also folklore that helps to define the identity and ancestry of many Philippine-Americans and Filipinos.  I first encountered this book a few years ago while taking a graduate course in history that blended history and literature.  This was one of those books that stood out from all the other literatures I read in the course in that it appeared remotely related to the majority of literature that was assigned in the class -- World War I and II history, and American writers who had been affected by the war.  Despite that fact, Holthe's When Elephants Dance was a refreshing narrative that mildly looked at the Pacific front by concentrating on one small region in the Philippines and taking an account from her own family's experience, and incorporating it within her semi-autobiographical narrative.<br /><br />When Elephants Dance is a fictitious tale that allows the reader to imagine the struggles and the truimphs that many had to endure during World War II as a result of Japanese occupation.  The unique thing about Holthe's narrative is the folktales and the larger than life characters and catastrophes that Filipinos  experienced, such as earthquakes and volcano eruptions.  These experiences with natural disasters help to understand and define  Filipino identity -- rituals, religious symbolism or superstition as well as Philippine culture where food tends to be a significant center.  Holthe presents much imagery in her storytelling as well as how she allows the characters in the book share stories with one another to either distract, or console them from the imminent danger they faced during wartime.<br /><br />This is an interesting book that I recommend to any curious bibliophile who likes to enhance their reading selection.  It isn't a definitive novel about Philippine history, however, it is a novel that adds another dimension to Philippine or Asian American literature. It may enhance your knowledge of a people that has a significant importance to American or Philippine history, or it may open your mind to the experiences, be it fictitious or real, that man faces during difficult times.her dimension to Philippine or Asian American literature. It may enhance your knowledge of a people that has a significant importance to American or Philippine history, or it may open your mind to the experiences, be it fictitious or real, that man faces during difficult times.	2005-01-22
US	53060790	R23VL6G2RG9RP3	0195032098	804812012	Over Here: The First World War and American Society (Galaxy Books)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	All Quiet on the US Front	The irony of war tugs at the souls of those who have not actually experienced it.  David Kennedy's OVER HERE:  THE FIRST WORLD WAR AND AMERICAN SOCIETY is a good social and cultural assessment of what occurred on American soil during World War I.  American nationalism prevailed, and the United States emerged from its isolationism to help their European brethrens from German invasion.  Despite the patriotic pomp and circumstance and extreme volunteerism by more than 50,000 young American men who became a part of independent armies that helped to form the American Expeditionary Force (AEF), the war ended with much disappointment both politically and economically as well as the loss of a generation from the European and US front.<br /><br />OVER HERE is a comprehensive study, at this point, for its genre and focus on American society.  It crosses the boundaries between literary and historical significance during this period in American history known as the Great War.  Kennedy did a fine job sifting through archives of material to present an exceptional and readable piece of scholarship that helps readers understand the social aspects of World War I and the period of 1917-1919.  He covers most of the major issues that have typified the war and the aftermath of the war, such as nationalism, repressed dissent, disillusionment, and xenophobia.  This was the first modernized and mechanized war that simply was not fully prepared for its consquences.  This was the period in which mass communication played a significant role in communicating both views of the war from Progressives, Populists to pacificists -- propaganda came into vogue with mass publications and depictions of the \\"enemy\\" as well as the \\"doughboys\\".<br /><br />This is a highly recommended book that concentrates on the US homefront, and occassionally refers to the war front.  It supplements previous and current research that explores the war that, unfortunately, was not the war to end all wars.  However, for those who did not return, their legacy is embedded in history as well as frozen in time.  The war dead would later be symbolized through complex postmodern interpretations and proportions, and collective memory for those who survived.eturn, their legacy is embedded in history as well as frozen in time.  The war dead would later be symbolized through complex postmodern interpretations and proportions, and collective memory for those who survived.	2005-01-03
US	53060790	R2XXV0GMVGKBIU	0811845079	381453469	Each One Believing: On Stage, Off Stage, and Backstage	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Superb Collection of Photographs	Each One Believing:  Paul McCartney; On Stage, Off Stage, and Backstage by Caroline Grimshaw and photography by Bill Bernstein is an excellent visual collection and recollection of Paul McCartney and his band, and the people that were involved with his 2002-2003 World Tour.  The book has a great layout and captures McCartney and company in candid moments that go with documentary photography.  The chapters in the book are particularly named from lines of songs included in the tour,  and at the back of the book, is a quirky section, the Tourasaurus, that McCartney shares with his readers that gives a run down of terms that were used during the tour.<br /><br />Besides the tremendous photographs in the book, there are radio interviews embedded in the contents of the book that reveal McCartney as one unstoppable rockin' machine, or not to be cliched, a fine wine that keeps \\"gettin' better\\" as time goes by.  Indeed, he is an icon in rock and roll history and in history in general.  There is a line in the book where he speaks about singing and writing \\"Yesterday,\\" which reveals how far this man has come:  \\"I was writing with wisdom of an old man, but I was quite a young man.  So now, once you have actually lost friends and lovers, then it really is kind of ... it means more\\" (27).<br /><br />Overall, this a nice addition to anyone's coffetable book collection as well for anyone interested in photography.  In addition, this is a wonderful accompaniment to McCartney' Back In the USA DVD, and for those fortunate to be a part of this rock and roll spectacular, this is a book that relives the moments of the tour.  McCartney sums up the excitement:  \\"And it's electrifying.  It's like a warm blanket, a big wave of heat coming over you, and you just get the intensity, and you see these faces and you think, \\"Wow!  They've come to party\\" (128).	2004-12-26
US	53060790	R17SX3I3QC1QKR	0465006787	500003485	Thread Of The Silkworm	Books	3	22	27	N	N	Interesting  Biography about a Chinese Scientist	Thread of the Silkworm was not quite what I expected in terms of a biography about Tsien Hsue-shen.  It is a simple and attractive narrative that may have been targeted toward readers that like their reading without overstocked footnotes.  It appears that Chang took her research from Tsien's surviving friends, colleagues, and Tsien himself.  In addition, her style of writing is somewhat intimate and personal, and she appears to write in a way where she really put much effort in getting to know her subject.  Througout the book she made Tsien looked like a hard-nosed and self-centered professor that could careless about his students. But at other times, there are passages in the book where his work overtook him.  In addition, it appeared like Chang empathized with what Tsien was going through when he was forced to abandon his research and duties at CalTech.<br /><br />Nevertheless, Chang does a good job at capturing the period in which Tsien studied, worked, and lived.  She attempts to provide detail during World War II, and how Tsien contributed to US rocket technology.  However, it appears disturbing of how his life took a turn during the Communist-feared 1950s, and how he became blacklisted and excluded from a society that welcomed his knowledge and participation in the world of science and technology.  Indeed, he became a US citizen, but because of unfortunate circumstances at time when ideology knew no boundaries, his talents were transfered overseas.<br /><br />Thread of the Silkworm was an easy read that will enhance your knowledge about immigration and what occurred during the 1950s.  I recommend this book for those interested in biographies, a dab of science, and as Chinese/Asian-American history as well.	2004-12-17
US	53060790	RPTOW8IPNTUH4	0674011171	817008767	Facing East from Indian Country: A Native History of Early America	Books	4	22	26	N	N	The Echo of Native American Voices	Behind the documents and the interpretations of Native American history, the Native voice yearns to be heard.  It is unfortunate that no body of literature will be able to provide the \\"true\\" voice of how Natives actually reacted to the so-called \\"invasion\\" or \\"conquest\\" of North America by Europeans during the early part of the 16th century.  However, Daniel Richter's FACING EAST FROM INDIAN COUNTRY:  A NATIVE HISTORY OF EARLY AMERICA attempts to switch the lens from a European perspective to a Native American one.<br /><br />The book's cover shows an amazing picture of the American landscape that is all too familiar to historians and literati with its depiction of the romanticized Indian.  Here we have a glorious painting that does not truly depict the world in which the Indians lived.  Yes, it is a big wide world that has not yet been tainted by colonists, settlers, and traders.  However, it was their world, which was later coined as the New World.<br /><br />Richter does a good job at introducing his argument that Natives are at the foreground of American history.  That is, if one looked East along the Eastern seaboard.  This account adds a dimension to the \\"master narrative,\\" which now includes Native inhabitants, but with their voices heard behind European accounts.<br /><br />FACING EAST FROM INDIAN COUNTRY may be a good starting point for those who would like to understand American history and its intricacies that involves Native Americans.  This may not be the quintessential narrative, but it is one that is not difficult to understand nor is it complex.  It is a visual perspective that may lead to complex inquiry as an after thought because the book ends where the story of Native Americans further continues where one drastic event will occur after another.	2004-11-23
US	53060790	RKBZ46AFLKD46	0312155344	556115941	Get Back: The Unauthorized Chronicle of the Beatles' Let It Be Disaster	Books	4	2	4	N	Y	Good Old Rock and Roll	Doug Sulpy and Ray Schwieghardt captured The Beatles during their demise.  There appears no doubt that the group no longer shared the passion they shared in the beginning.  Through hours of tapes, Suply and Schwieghardt dissected and attempted to get every nook and cranny of the Beatles'conversations. The authors show how the Beatles attempted to resusitate a musical entity that could no longer breath despite numerous attempts.<br /><br />Indeed, Get Back:  The Unauthorized Chronicle of the Beatles' Let it Be Disaster, did not offer any information that has not already been documented in fragments from various authors and publications.  And the one thing that Sulpy and Schwieghardt do not dirctely do is answer their question of who or what broke up the Beatles.  It is obvious that Yoko Ono played a major role in the breakup (Sulpy and Schweighardt's observations show her overbearing control over John's creativity and attempt at the Beatles' as well, which will play out during the Imagine sessions)along with how John, Paul, George, and Ringo changed and matured as individuals during the time that the Get Back (later retitled the Let It Be sessions) sessions occurred.<br /><br />The most insightful aspect of the book had been Sulpy and Schweighardt's method of chronologically showing how each track developed and evolved.  What the book does is show an inkling on how the Beatles'quickly directed their musical endeavors toward being solo artists.  As you read each synopsis of each song that each member was attempting to collaborate lyrically or musically, you also see several of the songs, which will eventually become solo works by each respective member down the road.  One unfortunate thought comes to mind, \\"hey, that could have been a Beatle song.\\"  Nevertheless, it was written by a Beatle.<br /><br />Despite that thought, the Beatles possessed a diverse musical heritage.  This was displayed in various parts of the book describing sessions where two or all four members jammed to songs dating back to their youth, and to artists of their time --Buddy Holly, Chuck Berry, Elvis, Bob Dylan, The Band, and various standards.  They would later intertwine the melodies of those songs into the songs in which they were working on.<br /><br />Get Back should not be considered a record of the Beatles' \\"swan song\\", but rather a representation of their love for various musical genres and collaboration as four individuals, which contributed to what the Beatles were and always will be: a part of Rock and Roll history and culture.g back to their youth, and to artists of their time --Buddy Holly, Chuck Berry, Elvis, Bob Dylan, The Band, and various standards.  They would later intertwine the melodies of those songs into the songs in which they were working on.      Get Back should not be considered a record of the Beatles' \\"swan song\\", but rather a representation of their love for various musical genres and collaboration as four individuals, which contributed to what the Beatles were and always will be: a part of Rock and Roll history and culture.	2004-05-25
US	53060790	R2L68CHM3SWTUK	0300080670	393801193	Playing Indian (Yale Historical Publications Series)	Books	3	23	32	N	N	American and Indian Identity Explored	Philip J. Deloria presents an interesting assessment of American identity as it relates to Indian identity.  Yes, this is an important aspect of American identity in general because it shows how far American's perceptions of Native Americans have come since the establishment of American society during the eighteenth century.  Deloria's Playing Indian is important scholarship in understanding Americanness from a historical perspective.<br />However, Deloria's book, once again, lacks the voices of Native Americans.  Yes, there is mention of the controversial Tammany Society and their relations with Creek Indians, but where are the Creek voices?  Deloria chooses to write from one perspective that does not completely reveal the complicated issue of Playing Indian.  He attempts to clearly discuss how Indian identity has shaped the national identity of Americans, but some where in the fold where he discusses the interior and exterior Indian, he lost me.  It only took a matter of re-readings to somewhat understand his point.<br />Nonetheless, the concluding chapters discuss the counterculture embracing Indianness as part of their identity.  Deloria ties this aspect of American and Indian relations in order to show how Indianness brought a sense of unity as it pertained all races during the tumultous 1960s and early 1970s.  This may have been the most significant part of the book that offers an inkling of how close Americans came to &quot;coming together&quot; communally with Indians, but Americans still did not fully grasp the reality of being Indian or fully welcoming Native American people within American society.  Indeed, Indians still appear as the Other.	2004-05-12
US	53060790	R1IXM497NNEC2E	000712287X	378337085	The Dalai Lama's Book of Love and Compassion	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Insightful and Basic Spiritual Words	I found this pocket-size book by His Holiness the Dalai Lama to be inspirational and helpful. You do not have to be a Buddhist to understand what the Dalai Lama has written because this is merely a practical guide, and should not be taken as serious literature if you intend to convert or truly understand Buddhism. It offers enlightenment.<br />There were several good points about this book. However, I did have some disagreements when it came to the Dalai Lama's discussions about particular subjects.  He appeared vague and ambiguous.  Or probably he was offering the reader to delve deeper within their own faculties to understand his point, if there was one to get at.  For one thing, the question and answer format of the book did appear as if it would appeal to the juvenile group.<br />Overall, his words can appeal universally to readers of all ages looking for a positive outlook in a world that is least than perfect.  I recommend this book.	2004-01-31
US	53060790	R2PQ2XX3KWCPRI	067401202X	740390048	Magic Circles: The Beatles in Dream and History	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Rather McKinney's inner sanctum	When it comes to reading about the Beatles, I waste no time.  Devin McKinney's account of the most influential band of the twentieth century took my fancy, and the title itself jumped out at me with the words Dream and History.  Of all the books that have been published lately that attempt to pose a critical analysis, something told me I just had to sink my teeth into this recent installment into the never-ending analysis of the Beatles' music and existence.<br />I was somewhat bewildered of what I got out of this book.  After eading the book's dustjacket, I was enticed to read on because it suggested critical historical analysis.  However, it is merely literary criticism. McKinney's account appears more like an extended Rolling Stone article meshed in with his personal psyche and his love for the Beatles -- his dream of a period long passed as placed on paper. He doesn't analyze any new material, but rehashes Beatle myths that have been presented time and time again, such as the Paul is dead rumor, the Charles Manson connection, and the notorious Beatles' butcher album cover and how they have had an affect on society during the 1960s.  The only difference here is that McKinney relates it to his generation X. He recycles bits and pieces of true and myth, and never quite answers the neverending questions he asks through out the book.<br />If McKinney was attempting to bring full circle to his understanding of how the Beatles were both truth and myth, only he or maybe other readers may be able to see the bigger picture because I did not.  This book throws in much information that will get baby boomers reminiscing about their counterculture and student demonstrations because McKinney does not leave those important tidbits out -- what would a book about the 1960s be without those references?  However, for those who have an interest in the Beatles and were not born during this period, this book will lend insight to that rock and roll circus that probably will never die.<br />If you want to know the the major philosophical, spiritual, mystical connection of this book, and what it has to do with these references:  toilet, the vision of a 15 year-old girl, reference to Milan Kundera and circles, and the most important theme,  the 'Yellow Submarine',  I recommend this book.<br />For better results, whip out your turntables and play Sgt. Pepper backwards!br />If you want to know the the major philosophical, spiritual, mystical connection of this book, and what it has to do with these references:  toilet, the vision of a 15 year-old girl, reference to Milan Kundera and circles, and the most important theme,  the 'Yellow Submarine',  I recommend this book.  <br />For better results, whip out your turntables and play Sgt. Pepper backwards!	2004-01-04
US	53060790	R38OJ8EHO85ZQF	0810946432	363372178	Once there was a way...Photographs of the Beatles	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Fab Shots	This is a wonderful coffee table book.  Unfortunately, I had to give this book four stars, and it's The Beatles! However, I was quite disappointed with the pictures that were displayed.  I own a previous photo book that Harry Benson had published several years back that was smaller in size, and it was quite better than this one.  I guess, I have been fabbed out with the pictures that have been released of The Beatles, and there is not a shot that I have not already seen before from a different angle or shown either in film or video form.  I guess it just didn't fulfill my expectations.<br /><br />But nevertheless, I recommend this book for those who have not yet experienced the remarkable photography of Harry Benson, and the photogenic traits of the topper most popper most band that ever existed.  For all you black and white photo aficionados, you'll love the blow ups.	2003-11-07
US	53060790	R33PNJU61RVLUL	0316831123	473562542	A Different Mirror: A History of Multicultural America	Books	5	5	12	N	N	Further Multicultural Reading from Both Perspectives	Ronald Takaki's A DIFFERENT MIRROR served as a tremedous journey in understanding how multiculturalism evolved in the United States.  Had I been taught in high school and during my early college education, I would not have questioned what multiculturalism meant.  Takaki's book definitely opened my eyes.<br />The book takes the reader through early American history from the Age of Exploration with Christopher Columbus and his encounter with the indigenous people of the Caribbean up to the L.A. riots and its relation to how multiculturalism has had an effect on American society.  The unique aspect of the book had been his use of William Shakespeare's THE TEMPEST, and the main ethnic character, Caliban.  In a way, Takaki used literature as a backdrop to history in order to present the analogy of the situations and experiences that many immigrants experienced at an attempt to live and survive in a &quot;new world&quot;.<br />Takaki presented a true assessment of American history.  There appeared to be no doubt that many immigrants from the pacific to the atlantic experienced much hardship and struggle as a result of Anglo-Saxon dominance that coveted their desire to attain opportunity in the United States.  It appears ironic how un-united the U.S. had been during the nineteenth century when a large influx of immigrants arrived to their &quot;Golden Mountain&quot; or to see their &quot;Lady Liberty&quot;.  They arrived only to be violently attacked and ridiculed because of their culture and traditions.  The so-called &quot;melting pot&quot; brewed to a burning point, especially during the Industrial Age.<br />However, the immigrants' struggles only served to benefit their future.  This book should be added to the reading lists of every history class that teaches multiculturalism or a basic college survey history class.  Multiculturalism taught in depth does not have to begin at the graduate level.  Takaki's examination of multiculturalism does not stop with the publication of this book.  The concluding chapter only emphasized that the understanding of multiculturalism continues after reading the book.  I'm glad to have read this book because I now understand that there is more to American history besides Thomas Jefferson.ion of this book.  The concluding chapter only emphasized that the understanding of multiculturalism continues after reading the book.  I'm glad to have read this book because I now understand that there is more to American history besides Thomas Jefferson.	2003-07-27
US	53060790	R51B2SEPMQLAV	1565843436	897151582	The Good War: An Oral History of World War II	Books	5	3	5	N	N	World War II History  From the Living Voices	Studs Terkel's \\"The Good War\\" presented World War II as told by those who lived it.  It appears that Terkel rounded up all the living legends that helped popularize the war effort, and have become somewhat iconiclastic heroes to American society.  You've got the \\"gung ho\\" E.B. (Slegdehammer)Sledge who led the men of company K through the jungles of the Pacific, and of course, the Rosie the riveters who epitomized the working woman with their dungerees and working man boots.  And ironically, Terkel also included the voices of dissent who had no sense of humanity and sided with the \\"other\\" side, that is, fascism, as a result of fear.  The personal account by Erich Luth presents how war and the effects of war can have a major impact on an individual.  Things can change in the process, and unfortunately, it was only through devastation that a person realized how wrong they had been to support a tyrranical form of government and leader, which existed with the Hitler regime.  As Luth states:  \\"You see, I belong to nation which has always been rich in military heroes, but is underdeveloped in civil courage...The young are beginning to understand\\" (433).<br />If history teaches anything, it teaches us to understand how people experienced hardships and also successes.  These individuals survived and they had the courage to tell their stories.  From scientists to the boy or girl next door, these people are Americans who participated in a society that combated the enemy from the Pacific and the Atlantic.<br />Terkel presented a variety of voices in \\"The Good War\\", and many great anecdotes and memoirs as told by these voices. It also asks the question if World War II had been romanticized as the \\"good war\\" or was it something more?  All I can say is that this book is definitely worth reading in spite of the fact that much of the stories and eye-witness accounts bear much significance to yesterday, today, and tomorrow.  This is a book about humanity and learning from what has been learned before.en learned before.	2003-07-18
US	53060790	RJ1E4AC0DT3Z4	0393312860	829722086	Telling the Truth About History (Norton Paperback)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	"Telling the truth takes a collective effort."	When studying, researching, and writing about an historical event, it may take careful reading and an open mind to understand the foundations that construct a historical narrative.  TELLING THE TRUTH ABOUT HISTORY is a critical examination of the subject of history by three distinguishable historians, Joyce Appleby, Lynn Hunt, and Margaret Jacob, which proves that history and science are essential elements when understanding truth and objectivity as it relates to the past.<br /><br />TELLING THE TRUTH ABOUT HISTORY is by no means a definitive study.  However, it introduces the reader to the historical method, and how the discipline as traversed throughout the years with trends and theoretical approaches.  The authors of the book are all eminent historians in each of their respective fields, American, European, and Cultural history, but their study is somewhat skewed when they briefly discuss the multicultural aspect to the understanding of history.  Indeed, they cannot touch upon all the events that have occurred in world history, and a few of the subjects that they mention in their discussion do not fall in their area of expertise.  But it was interesting to read the authors' tug of war discussion pertaining to postmodernist or revisionist history; at the time the book was published, 1994, postmodernism appeared to be an issue, which now and then is subtly discussed.<br /><br />Overall, the book is very helpful when understanding why one studies, writes, or teaches about history.  It is indeed an intricate subject that cannot be clearly understood without understanding other histories and the people and places that constituted a particular past. After re-reading TELLING THE TRUTH ABOUT HISTORY, it takes intellectual maturity and experience to understand the premise that the authors were attempting to convey.  This is an insightful book recommended for discussion.	2003-07-09
