US	53068382	R1VBL590RG2RMC	0060756969	89331161	She's Got Issues (Avon Books)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	You've Come a Long Way, Baby--NOT!!	I looked forward to reading this book because it looked like a fun, lighthearted read. As I continued to read, I found that I liked Chloe Rose less and less. She was twenty-eight years old and graduated from college, but she acted more like she was twelve. Her antics (sneaking into the shoe and fashion closets during work hours to play Dress Up) got on my nerves about two-thirds of the way through the story. I finished the book because I wanted to see if her boss and the Editorial department would lynch her in the end.<br /><br />Here is what I enjoyed about the story: Chloe's sister, Zoe. This girl actually clear-headed and uses her brain. Through Zoe, Stephanie Lessing delivers a strong message that women shouldn't have to strive to be beauty queens or sleep A Sappy Chick their way to success. As well written as this story was, I would have enjoyed it better if it had been told in Zoe's perspective and had a different ending for her stupid, shallow sister.	2005-09-20
US	53068382	R5767U6HQYBKP	0385503628	50464028	In Dahlia's Wake	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Bittersweet Novel About Grief and Its Effects	When I first started reading this book, I thought the storyline would center on Dahlia, a seven year-old girl tragically killed in a freak car accident. Instead, the book's focus was split between the parents (Rick and Naomi Weschler) and those closest to them-Rick's office manager (Lillian), the doctor who pronounced Dahlia's death (Michael), and Naomi's aging mother, Estelle. Yona McDonough portrays each character's grief without overdoing it, giving them very human faults that cause them to make selfish choices because of this grief.<br /><br />These choices not only affect them and their marriages, but the lives of the other people around them. For instance, Michael and Naomi's choice to have an affair changed Michael's daughter's life forever. I enjoyed reading this book. It was well written, with believable characters and a strong message. My kind of book.	2005-04-20
US	53068382	R19OMWZKLG3ZKG	0553803220	665836968	Babylon Rising	Books	3	8	15	N	N	Watered-Down Indiana Jones	Having read the first three books of the Left Behind series, I was thrilled when I saw Babylon Rising sitting on the shelf. I was hooked by the first chapter. The character of Michael Murphy had such promise in the beginning. But he became more stereotypical as the story progressed to the point where I almost lost interest in reading the rest of the book.<br />For instance, I felt that he bounced back way too quickly from a devastating personal loss. Then there was Isis, who jumped from wimp to heroine in the space of a chapter. She didn't impress me at all.<br />As for the plot, I'm curious to see where LaHaye takes it. So, I will wait for the sequel (due next Fall). You can check out the book's website at [...] and to learn how LaHaye got his idea for the series and to post feedback.	2003-11-14
US	53068382	R1S8ZDXBO0HPMT	0595256643	455073797	Christmas Trees and Monkeys: Collected Horror Stories, Volume 1	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Do Not Miss This Collection	Up until the last story, I didn't think I would have a favorite, although a few will stick with me for quite a while.  \\"Feed the Birds\\" will take you into the bowels of human depravity.  \\"The Doll Wagon\\" outshines the old Twilight Zone story.  Positively creepy.  Thanks to Keohane, I will never see GI Joe the same way again!  Ever.<br />The other stories are strange and thought-provoking (such as Y2Kay and The Storm of Generations).  My favorite was \\"Tanner's Bomb\\".  It was a darkly hilarious story about a trucker, desperate to drop his load so he could get home to his family in time for Christmas.  He did, but not without dire consequences.<br />I not only enjoyed Christmas Trees and Monkeys for the stories, but for the way they were written.  Mr. Keohane has his own unique style, which I found refreshing.  I look forward to reading his next book.  Highly recommended.	2003-01-30
US	53068382	R3ME8ICEBI3F0J	0399149368	309604858	Prince of Lost Places	Books	4	6	8	N	N	The Ending Broke My Heart	I read this story in one day, which is a rarity for me.  The Prince of Lost Places begins with the detective, who is hired by David Wells to find his wife Martha, who abducted their son.  From there, the story shifts to Martha, who burns her station wagon on the side of the road in a desparate attempt to elude capture.  She is terrified because David wants to put her in a mental hospital.<br />It was obvious to me that she was suffering from extreme paranoia.  The world was a bad place and she had to protect her 6 year-old son, Duncan from it.  So, she takes him to an isolated cave in the desert of Texas with the hope that David will never find her. He doesn't understand how bad the world is and how it could hurt Duncan.  In her mind, David is crazy and she is sane.<br />She hopes that Duncan will forget about Linda, the little girl next door, who died tragically during school. Martha had an inherent dislike for Linda for the way she treated Duncan.  The little girl had bossed her son around before she stole his toy soldiers.  When the detective (who calls himself Andrew) finds their hideout, she is wary and suspicious.  Andrew manipulates her with his affection towards Duncan and his promise that he will protect them from David.<br />They continue to hide out in the cave.  Martha still has nightmares about Linda's death and gives Andrew the details about the bombing which took the little girl's life.  Andrew, in turn, tells her his story about his wife leaving him because his love wasn't enough for her.  Soon after that, romantic feelings and ideals of a \\"better and peaceful\\" life spring up.<br />Then David arrives on the scene, bringing with him the horrible truth about about the bombing.  David had come with the intent to help his wife and save their marriage.  The exchange between the couple broke my heart.  I felt a deep compassion for both of them.<br />The Prince of Lost Places is not about alcoholism.  It is about grief and what it can do to the mind.  Ms. Hepinstall did an excellent job of portraying someone with a mental illness and how some people can take advantage of them to suit their own selfish purposes.  I enjoyed reading this book because it made me react.  It's been a while since a story had that effect on me.  Highly recommended.epinstall did an excellent job of portraying someone with a mental illness and how some people can take advantage of them to suit their own selfish purposes.  I enjoyed reading this book because it made me react.  It's been a while since a story had that effect on me.  Highly recommended.	2003-01-19
US	53068382	R3SNY4YMKT80W2	1885373287	487824179	Manic Depression: How to Live While Loving a Manic Depressive	Books	3	5	5	N	N	A Good Starting Point	This book starts out with Mrs. Bradley tricking her husband into going into the hospital.  Fortunately for her, it worked.  He was willing to seek treatment.  How he reacted to being tricked wasn't mentioned.<br />How their children dealt with his illness was skimmed over in one sentence.  I'm sure they would have a completely different story, having watched their father verbally attack their mother over the years. I didn't get the feeling that Mrs. Bradley was being honest in that regard.<br />She did give some helpful tips on how to cope with your own anxiety and/or depression when dealing with these people.  There was plenty of humor and irony to go along with the sadness and frustration.  That helped me a great deal.<br />My situation is different in that my mother-in-law is the bi-polar (undiagnosed and untreated).  This book outlined her personality almost to a T.  It also helped me to understand my father-in-law and why he won't leave her despite her destructive behavior.<br />This book is a good starting point regardless of the relationship you have with the bi-polar.  I would, however, look at other books and resources on this subject to better educate yourself.	2002-12-08
US	53068382	RH6TPVX5G7KJG	0910965595	427155046	Super Searchers Make It on Their Own: Top Independent Information Professionals Share Their Secrets for Starting and Running a Research Business (Super Searchers series)	Books	5	39	39	N	Y	Very Informative	This book covers eleven information professionals who started their own business and succeeded.  Each chapter is dedicated to one person, sporting his or her picture, a short bio, their email address and their URL.  The chapters are written in a casual, interview style which is makes it a highly interesting read.<br />These individuals were asked about their background and how they became interested in the field they are working in.  The logistics of starting their own business and the pitfalls were discussed, along with specific questions that pertained to their expertise.<br />Here are the fields that are covered:<br />Business Research<br />Aviation Expertise<br />Healthcare Industry Monitoring<br />Intellectual Property and Patents<br />Public Records<br />Civic Entrepreneurship<br />Corporate Libaries<br />Canadian Business Information<br />Value-added Research<br />Search Engines<br />On-line Information Gathering<br />I'll admit that I jumped to the chapter of Lynn Peterson: The Craft of Public Records, as it pertained to my own interests. She began doing background checks on prospective nannies.  Today, she has assignments in the legal and corporate fields as well as with private individuals.  Her story was inspiring and informative.<br />The Appendix offers some good sources and websites for research, books, and print media.  I'd recommend this book for anyone who is interested in starting their own research business.	2002-12-08
US	53068382	R1KN2JO4R2HIDD	0843950447	458484788	The Hour Before Dark	Books	5	15	18	N	Y	Powerful	The Hour Before Dark is Douglas Clegg's best novel to date.  It begins with Gordie Raglan's brutal murder in a small island town in New England.  His sons, Nemo and Bruno, come to the house to comfort their sister, Brooke, who is considered a suspect.<br />The killing stirs up painful memories for Nemo.  His mind keeps flashing back to the day his mother left the family.  Then there is the \\"Brain Fart\\", which left a week-long hole in the memories of all three children.  Nemo blames this on the Dark Game (taught to them by their father in the smokehouse where he was murdered) that went a little too far.  The gap continues to bug Nemo, along with his sister's increasingly bizarre behavior.<br />Bruno isn't faring too well, either.  He hates his father for the way he punished them.  Nemo tries to gloss over those incidents, blaming his mother's desertion for his father's violent temper.  As he cooperates with the police and pacifies his sister, he finds himself both drawn to and repelled by the smokehouse.  He doesn't believe the town's theory  that a serial killer had struck his father down.  Something far more sinister and evil had killed Gordie, and it was still in the house, tormenting them with nightmares about a woman who held a striking resemblence to their mother.  Brooke's deteriorating mental state forces the brothers to carry her to the smokehouse to play the Dark Game one last time, to banish the demon that is preying on them.<br />What they received was a horrifying replay of the past, which they barely escaped from.  Clegg did an excellent job with the climax.  That scene was one of the most harrowing, breath-holding scenes I've read in my life.  Highly recommended.	2002-11-06
US	53068382	R3U1KX3H39AT67	0312956584	34151402	Sins of the Mother	Books	3	5	6	N	N	A Lot of Truths Left Unsaid	I bought this book, hoping to get a glimpse into the mind of Susan Smith and to learn why she killed her children.  Instead, I received a well-written account of the events that happened after Susan showed up on Shirley McCloud's doorstep.<br />The story was told from several points of view, from the investigators and the townspeople.  What wasn't included was David or Susan's point of view.  The author uses the in-laws to tell us how David was reacting both during the investigation and after his wife confessed.  Through friends and investigators, we learn about Susan's tumultuous childhood, which included two suicide attempts.<br />She clearly had problems.  Whether it was a full-blown mental illness that caused her to murder her children or a cold and calculated act so she could secure another relationship was never really touched upon.  Included was her confession, which seemed phony and trite to me.  The fact that the Smiths refused to see Mark Klaas and Jeanne Boylan, both of whom could have helped in this case, raised a major red flag with me.  As a parent, I would've given them the five-star treatment.<br />The truth, which wasn't told in this book, was that David Smith knew his wife.  Susan's family knew her for what she was and was more interested in protecting her than in finding those boys. That was the impression I got from reading this book.<br />Once Susan confessed to the murders, Eftimiades explains the mixed reations of the townspeople.  Many were suspicious of her from the very beginning, but didn't want to get involved.<br />I expected the book to end with the coverage of her trial.  Instead, it ended with Christian passages of forgiveness. I wasn't surprised to learn that several of the family members, including David, have made a buck off those killings.<br />Overall, I felt that Eftimiades could've done more investigating to make her book a believable and worthwhile read.  Instead, I felt more empathy for the sheriff and the townspeople than I did for the Smiths' and their families.  The coverup was too obvious and the ending way too short and disappointing.the Smiths' and their families.  The coverup was too obvious and the ending way too short and disappointing.	2002-10-31
US	53068382	R2MRL7EJZ7G7HQ	0451205812	237229878	The Ferryman	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Very Different Kind of Ghost Story	The spooky cover of this book made me pick it up.  Page one hooked me.  The Ferryman is a very different kind of ghost story in that the main characters' nemesis is Charon, Greek god of the Underworld.<br />Janine Hartschorn experiences a nightmare, where she is standing next to a river in a hellish place.  A lone figure beckons to her from his boat in the river.  She realizes that she has three silver coins in her hand and that they are her fare towards death.  Terrified, she flings them into the river and tries to run.  But the mud sucks at her.<br />What she thought was a nasty dream turns into an all-out harrowing fight for survival.  Janine is not alone, though.  Her former lover, David Bairstow, and their mutual friend, Annette also find themselves entangled as the ghosts of David's past spring to life as Charon's minions, bent on killing them so he can claim Janine.<br />The Ferryman is a fast-paced story that kept me reading.  If I had to describe it, I would say that it is a blend of Peter Straub's \\"Ghost Story\\", William Blatty's \\"The Exorcist\\", and Golden's own weird surrealism.  The ending was well done.  Very cinematic, as one reviewer put it.  Recommended.	2002-08-12
US	53068382	R16KBL2VNFMUB5	0553583719	438699316	Cold Heart	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Fast and Furious Read	If you enjoy reading suspense novels, then you'll love this book.  Cold Heart begins with Micky Ascherfeld, patrolling the streets with her lover/partner, when an armored truck crashes into them, sending their cruiser into a topless bar.  The truck backs up and smashes them again.  Micky manages to get out of the cruiser, only to suffer a nasty flashback of her parents' brutal murders as she is trying to flee from the psychopath that is now chasing her through the bar.<br />She survives the ordeal, but it has taken a terrible toll on her spirit.  At the urging of a good friend (Damon), she visits McRay, Alaska.  The story jumps ahead four years.  She now lives in McRay, and everything is fine until the town oddball decides to go on a killing spree.  Will Micky's past cripple her with fear again, or will she overcome it?<br />McGrew throws in plenty of twists, and the ending may surprise you.  El was a good killing machine, but he wasn't very interesting as a villian.  Damon, however, would've made an excellent psychopath since he made a living dealing with such.  In that way, I was disappointed.  But I give this book five stars because it is so entertaining.  I found myself rooting for Micky and Dawn until the very end.  Recommended.	2002-06-13
US	53068382	R1UFJSREBRG4WF	0312870353	244836264	Armed and Dangerous: Memoirs of a Chicago Policewoman	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Powerful	Armed & Dangerous is an excellent book whether you are considering a career in law enforcement or not.  Gallo begins her story with her father, who was shot on Easter, describing the pain of being a child of a police officer.  She vowed never to become an officer, but life's circumstances forced her to change her mind.<br />From there, she takes the reader on a roller-coaster ride from her days at the Academy to the day she resigned from the Chicago Police Department.  Her depiction of the Academy made me wonder if this was fiction because I couldn't believe the brutal fashion in which the trainers handled future officers.  A few of them left the Academy with permanent disabilities and no chance at a law enforcement career.  She tells us how the rest of them made it through that grueling period, by banding together and forming a team.  Being a team player is the most important skill in police work.<br />I felt like I was right there with her as she described her first day on the job with a slacker for a field trainer and how that trainer deserted her when she needed him to back her up.  She tells us what it was like to kill a man and what that did to her soul.  She tells us what it's like to see a mutilated baby and then have to be professional in dealing with his murdering mother.  And, she tells us what it's like to have to go to the same neighborhoods to deal with the same people day after day.  There are lots of heartbreaking stories in this book and some incredibly funny ones, too.<br />I found myself laughing out loud at the craziness and the stupidity of both the criminals and the corrupt officers.  More often than not, however, I felt disgusted by the drug addicts and the political games of the department brass.  Throughout this book, I wondered how she managed to keep her humor when faced with the pain, the terror, and the good ol' boy mentality that tried its best to keep her in the trenches.  The end saddened me, but it was typical.<br />Armed & Dangerous stripped me of all my notions about police officers and what they do for a living.  Gallo is a powerful writer, and I applaud her for having the courage to write this book.  Throw away those police procedural novels.  They pale against Gallo's book.ped me of all my notions about police officers and what they do for a living.  Gallo is a powerful writer, and I applaud her for having the courage to write this book.  Throw away those police procedural novels.  They pale against Gallo's book.	2002-03-17
US	53068382	RXEPXOK5WAX74	0767908481	223666842	The No Spin Zone: Confrontations with the Powerful and Famous in America	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Media Man with a 'Tude	Bill O'Reilly is a definite personality, and it shows in his book, The No-Spin Zone.  Along with his commentary on issues such as free speech, education, politics, and taxes, are the transcribed versions of his interviews with the famous and well known of America.  I was surprised to find out that President Bush had interviewed with him during his campaign.  No, I haven't seen many of The No-Spin Zone programs.  In that interview, O'Reilly confronted Bush about his position on the death penalty, explaining ahead of time that politicians are given rehearsed answers to the most frequently asked questions.  Bush was thrown off, thereby giving an honest answer instead of a rehearsed one.  Then O'Reilly gives his opinion of the death penalty, suggesting that we send prisoners to an isolated facility in the Yukon for the rest of their lives with no cable, but a radio.  He feels that this is a better deterrant than what we have now.  It made me think.<br />For those who refused to interview with him, he attacked, albiet professionally.  Jesse Jackson and Hillary Clinton were his favorite targets, along with Janet Reno.  He gives us the real spin on what the government does with our tax dollars.  It's enough to elevate your blood pressure.  The politicians who did show up tried to dodge the questions and failed.<br />Then there is CBS and the media.  O'Reilly does not like CBS due to their politics and methods of censorship.  They didn't like him because of his brazen, no-nonsense style of reporting.  Ah, well.  He has his own show now.  But he does give us a clear picture of how the media distorts the truth.<br />I enjoyed The No-Spin Zone on several levels.  It was short and easy to read.  His insights made me think.  Sometimes I got angry or disgusted, especially where our taxes are concerned.  Sometimes, I felt like he was trying to stab at the people he didn't like.  He's got an attitude, but at least he's honest.	2002-03-10
US	53068382	R3RKXZYRXKY7WI	0380978865	200542713	A Winter Haunting	Books	5	2	5	N	Y	A Tight, Hair-raising Ride	I was thrilled when I saw Dan Simmons's new book, A Winter Haunting on Amazon.  Until I saw the reviews, I had no idea it was a sequel to Summer of Night when I preordered it.  That doesn't matter.  This book can stand by itself, although you may get to know Dale Stewart better by reading the first book.<br />Dale is an interesting guy, to say the least.  After a failed suicide attempt, he returns to Elm Haven to write a book about his long-dead best friend, Duane McBride and their pack of nerdy friends.  This is a last-ditch effort to rebuild his broken life, most of which is his own fault.  He moves into Duane's old house, which has ghosts of its own.  Whether they are real or imagined is the reader's guess until the very end.<br />Simmons did a superb job in his depiction of an eerie town, its hostile citzens, and one whacked out main character.  This book is a tight, hair-raising ride into terror.  I hope Simmons will continue to write more horror stories because he is good.  Highly recommended.	2002-03-10
US	53068382	R3TAM23FVIR5XX	0737302720	154771748	Careers in Criminology (Careers in… Series)	Books	5	13	13	N	Y	A Valuable Resource	Careers in Criminology covers a wide spectrum of law enforcement careers.  Each section lists the type of job, its specialties and hazards, the skills and education requirements needed, and the salary.  In the back is a list of websites and organizations you can contact.<br />If you aren't sure which avenue to take, I suggest reading the book all the way through.  It is filled with interesting facts and pertinent information that can help you attain your career.  If you already have an idea of what your interests are, you can skip to the relevant chapter.  Recommended.	2002-03-03
US	53068382	R31H6ZWBVP13R5	0205262600	698940955	Careers in Criminal Justice	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	A Good Starting Point	Careers in Criminal Justice is a good starting point for those who are either considering or actively pursuing a career in law enforcement.  Stephens profiles a variety of careers such as Chief of Police, State Attorney, small town and city police officers, FBI, forensics, and more.  Each profile centers on one officer, who explains how he or she became interested in their chosen field, the kinds of education they had to acquire both in school and on the job, and what traits an officer needs to possess in order to succeed.  The most prevalent tip throughout the book was to gain a wide variety of education due to the growing cultural and technological trends in today's society.<br />This book is a short 91 pages, and it doesn't list websites or professional organizations like several other books about law enforcement.  But it is written in a conversational style, giving the reader a first-hand idea of what it is like to work out in the field or in a lab.  Recommended.	2002-03-03
US	53068382	R22CCGLWZFBZ11	0761534040	897968670	The New Thought Police: Inside the Left's Assault on Free Speech and Free Minds	Books	5	8	9	N	N	1984 Snuck Up on Us	Tammy Bruce explains the difference between the old-fashioned Liberal and today's multiculturist liberal. There is quite a difference between the two. The old-fashioned Liberal believes in freedom of speech, equal rights, individuality, morals, and personal responsibility. The multiculturist society has a self-righteous attitude that believes in entitlements and very little responibility. To open your mouth and speak against them is to face public humiliation via verbal attacks, death threats, and ostracism. These people hate everything the original America stood for.<br />Bruce illustrates how the media plays a strong hand in steering people toward the multiculturist way of thinking. Her first example was Dr. Laura Schlessinger, who was forced to cancel her TV show because GLAAD accused her of bashing gays. Eminem didn't hear a peep from them or the media for bashing gays in his \\"songs\\". Bruce goes on to explain. Joan Garry, the leader of GLAAD, used to work for MTV. Her sponsor is Seagrams. Basically, if she had made the same stink with Eminem, she would have lost her sponsors. So, he is still bashing gays while Dr. Laura still preaches family values on her radio show.<br />Bruce explains how the media is responsible for a great deal of fear about racism and its impact on society.  She points out that the majority of the rioters over Rodney King weren't black, but Hispanic and white. The media tried to portray the entire black community rioting in the streets when all you had to do was watch the news and see that it wasn't so. I saw plenty of opportunistic criminals carrying stolen TVs, and they weren't black.<br />I agreed with Bruce 100% where the O.J. Simpson case was concerned. I didn't get obsessed with the case like my mother-in-law did, but I saw the news coverage of him trying to flee and heard the 9-1-1 tapes of Nicole crying and asking for help. I knew he was a batterer who killed his ex-wife and her friend, but I also knew he was going to get away with it. Why? Because of the Rodney King case. Those two cases, and the media coverage they received, sent a terrible message to the victims of drunk drivers and batterers. The only justice Nicole Brown Simpson and her children received was the distruction of O.J.'s career. Thanks to Tammy Bruce, his scheduled TV appearance to \\"clear his name\\" was thwarted.<br />It doesn't stop there. Bruce attacks NOW, Knopf, Howard Stern, and certain media officials. NOW is not about feminism and women's rights. They are staunch protectors of the multiculturist movement, stifling opinions of the women they allegedly support and turning them into victims of said movement.<br />The only thing I didn't like was her stance and tactics concerning Knopf, which published American Psycho. I have never read American Psycho and decided to check out the reviews on Amazon. It received both good and bad, pointing out that its graphic violence isn't for everyone. I felt she used invasive tactics for censoring that book. That's what she did, regardless of whether she was trying to protect kids from pornography and violence. She not only made her stand with the publishing industry, but earned some leverage with the news media. That, I applauded.<br />The New Thought Police was a tightly written, well thought out piece of education. I enjoyed Ms. Bruce's witty if not sarcastic style as well as the wealth of information she gave to us concerning NOW and the real definition of a liberal. If you weren't aware of how stifled you were before reading this book, you will after you turn the last page. I recommend this book to anyone who values their own opinion and freedoms.y? Because of the Rodney King case. Those two cases, and the media coverage they received, sent a terrible message to the victims of drunk drivers and batterers. The only justice Nicole Brown Simpson and her children received was the distruction of O.J.'s career. Thanks to Tammy Bruce, his scheduled TV appearance to \\"clear his name\\" was thwarted.<BR>It doesn't stop there. Bruce attacks NOW, Knopf, Howard Stern, and certain media officials. NOW is not about feminism and women's rights. They are staunch protectors of the multiculturist movement, stifling opinions of the women they allegedly support and turning them into victims of said movement.<BR>The only thing I didn't like was her stance and tactics concerning Knopf, which published American Psycho. I have never read American Psycho and decided to check out the reviews on Amazon. It received both good and bad, pointing out that its graphic violence isn't for everyone. I felt she used invasive tactics for censoring that book. That's what she did, regardless of whether she was trying to protect kids from pornography and violence. She not only made her stand with the publishing industry, but earned some leverage with the news media. That, I applauded.<BR>The New Thought Police was a tightly written, well thought out piece of education. I enjoyed Ms. Bruce's witty if not sarcastic style as well as the wealth of information she gave to us concerning NOW and the real definition of a liberal. If you weren't aware of how stifled you were before reading this book, you will after you turn the last page. I recommend this book to anyone who values their own opinion and freedoms.	2002-02-28
US	53068382	R86VE4QVSM81B	0895261979	350670764	Hell to Pay: The Unfolding Story of Hillary Rodham Clinton	Books	5	67	87	N	N	A Very Dangerous Woman	This was one of the most educational books I have read in my life.  Olson writes a compelling story about Hillary Clinton, starting with her middle-class upbringing in suburban Illinois.  Growing up with a house full of men, Hillary felt she had to excel at everything in order to win her father's approval, which she never seemed to get.  This was the only time I felt any empathy for this woman.<br />We've all heard the blatherings about the Clintons' scandals via the media.  But the media never came close to telling us the truth, especially concerning their dealings with the Chinese government, who now has possession of our nuclear secrets.  Barbara Olson not only illustrates their involvement but gives an unsettling picture of how Hillary Rodham Clinton's mind works.  She is a megalomaniac who wants nothing more than absolute power over the American people, especially our children.  Olson also gives us the scoop about Whitewater, the Lewinsky fiasco, and scores of other calamaties and injustices that went on inside the White House during their double-term.  Basically, the Clintons perfected the Nixonian technique for covering their tracks, destroying a countless number of lies both figuratively and literally.<br />I would have liked to have read what really happened to Vincent Foster, Ron Brown, and several other officials who met untimely deaths.  Olson barely skimmed this issue, but told how Vince Foster was Hillary's lawyer and possible lover.  I can understand why Olson couldn't touch that issue, given her position in the Justice Department.  But she portrays the Clintons for who they really are, slick criminals who will use anyone and any means to secure their agenda.<br />I recommend this book to every American citizen, whether they were (or are still) pro-Clinton or not.  Hell to Pay is loaded with facts that we cannot ignore.	2002-02-21
US	53068382	RNRGIFRXWLWRT	0374129983	647099960	The Corrections	Books	4	8	9	N	N	The Human Condition with a Twist	The majority of this 562-page novel is about the characters' individual lives.  Franzen wrote this novel so well that I not only felt like I was walking in each character's shoes, but felt transported to St. Jude, New York City, and Lithuania.<br />The Corrections packs a humorous and realistic punch about life at the end of this century.  He depicted the '90s parent very well in Gary, who tries to be the authority figure in his household and fails due to his insecurities.  Denise is the Career Woman who doesn't know who she is or how to deal with life's emotional challenges.  Chip starts out as a directionless sex fiend, a man I really started out despising.  Out of the three, he surprised me with his growth.  Enid and Alfred are the aging parents these adult children have to deal with.<br />I give this book four and a half stars for two reasons.  Although the Lamberts' lives are interesting, I couldn't wait to get to the Christmas Dinner, which I expected to be darkly satirical.  Instead, it was brutally realistic but not a total letdown.  Still, I enjoyed it for what it was.<br />I would recommend this book to anyone who enjoys reading about the human condition.	2002-02-03
US	53068382	R28XDN5XTAXTIC	0312275420	697393202	Being Dead: A Novel	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Original	The title alone intrigued me.  The first page hooked me.  Crace has a unique writing style that is both clinical and eloquent.  If you have a morbid sense of humor (like me), then you will enjoy the chapter where Syl (the daughter of Joseph and Celice) goes to the morgue to find her missing parents.<br />Some of you might be grossed out by the descriptions of the bodies and how they decompose.  This is where Crace gets clinical.  He describes the decomposition process for what it is--nature.<br />Fortunately, this isn't what Being Dead is all about.  This book, I found, is about the lives of Joseph and Celice before they were killed.  They fell in love, got married, had a daughter, and led successful careers.  But there was an underlying tension between the couple that I couldn't quite grasp until I was near the end of the story.  I won't spoil it for you.  Death is entwined in this story, as in every other chapter or so, Crace depicts their bodies lying in the dunes, Joseph's hand touching Celice's leg.  That haunted me.<br />I give this book a high recommendation for its originality and multi-faceted meaning.	2002-01-06
US	53068382	R1AIOX3NOOR7A6	0446673919	699141211	Caffeine Blues: Wake Up to the Hidden Dangers of America's #1 Drug	Books	3	100	111	N	N	Informative	Caffeine Blues has a wealth of information about the side affects, most of which I was experiencing.  At the beginning is a checklist to see how addicted you are.  In the next chapter, Cherniske explains the origins of caffeine, which was interesting.  The majority of the book explains what caffeine does to the major organs of your body, including your brain and your cognitive thinking skills.<br />It took Cherniske 301 pages to say that caffeine is legalized speed.  Yeah, no kidding.  I tried to go turkey and fell flat on my face.  Caffeine is a highly addictive drug, one which can produce severe withdrawals.  He lists several alternatives to wean yourself off, such as weakening your coffee with milk.  For the soda addicts, he suggests alternating every other can with caffeine-free soda, herbal drinks, or water.  Plus he suggests Ginseng, Vitamin B-6, and St. John's Wort, among others to keep you alert.  Exercise was another suggestion.  With that, he warns the reader not to get out of breath because that will lower your blood sugar, thus making you more tired.<br />I have to say that this book was helpful, although I have to agreee with some of the other reviewers in that he seemed overzealous in his campaign against caffeine and its products.  One cup of coffee or one can of soda per day isn't going to hurt you.  But if you drink eight cups a day for 10+ years, yes, you will feel the effects.<br />I give this book three stars because it is well written and informative; however, I feel that the author spent way too much time brow-beating us to the point where I wondered if this wasn't some sort of political, Thought Police kind of ploy to incite a mass panic within the general public.  While I would recommend this book, I would also read others in order to make an intelligent, educated choice about caffeine and its long-term effects.	2001-12-16
US	53068382	R17CICUFRIHDV9	0312195516	226874686	The Red Tent	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	A Compelling, Thought-provoking Read	There was some mention of feminism and the depiction of the male characters as fools.  That was true, where many were concerned, including the female characters.  To me, that made them real.<br />I have to admit that I have read very little of the Bible, and probably wouldn't have read this book had a friend not recommended it to me.  I'm glad that I did.  Although the book started out rather slow, Diamont drew me in with the characters of Leah and Rachel, who fell in love with a man named Jacob.  She did an excellent job of describing the sibling rivalry between the two women,  the clash between father and son-in-law, and the horrifying event that rips the family apart.<br />The Red Tent is a tightly interwoven novel of female bonding, lust and jealousy, and family legacies.  You don't have to have a strong knowledge of the Bible to enjoy this book.  The fact that Diamont took a very brief glimpse of history and blew it up into a believable story shows how creative she is.  I'd recommend this book to anyone.	2001-10-18
US	53068382	R2L0VYKPNUPDVH	0425166929	314036904	One Last Time: A Psychic Medium Speaks to Those We Have Loved and Lost	Books	5	116	118	N	Y	Spiritually Uplifting	I have to admit that I watched his show, Crossing Over, only once.  It was strange, watching a psychic pick people out of a crowd.  The show left me wondering how he kept himself focused and how he managed to single out one person at a time.<br />That one episode intrigued me enough to buy the book, and I was glad that I did.  He comes across as down to earth in his book as he does on his show.  That makes the book very easy to read and understand.<br />One Last Time touches everything about his life--his relationship with his family, his healthy skepticism about talking to people from the Other Side, his career in the medical field, his religious faith, and the cases he has experienced.  I almost felt like I was there as I was reading the pages, he writes so well.<br />I was especially touched by Andrew and Mikey, who both died in accidents.  Their cases resonated with love and caring for their families.  I felt empathy for Mr. Edward when he worried about how his mediumship would affect his standing in the Catholic faith.  What impressed me the most about One Last Time was that it wasn't filled with the typical &quot;harps, chariots, and beyond-beautiful&quot; picture of the Other Side like I've read in other celebrity psychic books.  He talks about the Other Side as being an infinite place that is full of love and a place where souls can evolve.<br />He explains what happens to people who commit suicide.  Being a survivor, that was especially comforting. At the end, he tells us how we can tap into our own spiritual awareness.<br />I highly recommend this book for anyone who has an interest in spirituality and anyone who has lost someone close to them.  One Last Time is a message of hope.	2001-09-06
US	53068382	R2X2VH6NIWZ0FH	1561483176	246790704	Fix-It and Forget-It Cookbook	Books	5	140	156	N	N	A Must for Your Cookbook Collection	I've compared this cookbook with Betty Crocker, Sunset, Hoffman, etc. In my opinion, it beats all of them. Fix It and Forget it is a collection of recipes from people all over the country. There are twenty different chili recipes to choose from, as well as appetizers, desserts, main dishes, and soups. The book is divided in these categories, listing several recipes per page. Each recipe is very simple to follow. So far, I've tried the Saucy Pork Chops and the Creamy Chicken Italiano. The pork chops were excellent, and I'm not a big pork lover. The Chicken Italiano was a step up from the Chicken Helper you can get in the supermarket. If I make this again, I'd put more spices in it. If you don't like a lot of spice in your food, then you'll enjoy this dish.<br />I'd recommend this book to anyone who has a crock pot and anyone who doesn't. Some of these recipes, like the pork chops, you can cook on the stovetop. There's something for everyone in this book.	2001-09-01
US	53068382	R3TVXXWZ8Z6BM8	0312089015	799928793	Swift Justice: Murder & Vengeance In A California Town	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	An Eye for an Eye	Swift Justice is more than a story about the murder of Brooke Hart, the son of a prominent San Jose businessman in 1933.  It is about vigilante justice in its worst form--lynching.<br />Farrell starts the book off with Brooke Hart and the events that led up to his kidnapping and murder.  He points out that most of his material was gathered from witnesses and/or people who wish to remain anonymous to this day.  So, he cautions the reader about the accuracy of his story.  The detail in which he describes the body and the lynching is gruesome.  It works with the story, though, because I got the sense why the citizens of San Jose flew into a rage at those two men and the justice system.  Brooke Hart and his family were revered by many, and in their eyes, what those two men did was unforgivable.  The sheriff's department started receiving anonymous threats against those men and alerted the police chief.  When the threats became more severe, he brought in more deputies to secure the area while the police chief did nothing.  Then a small crowd gathered outside the station house.  Slowly, it grew into a large mob.  At eleven o'clock that night, they stormed the jail, dragged the men out of their cells, and hung them on two trees in St. James Park.<br />Farrell did an excellent job in depicting this scene.  I felt like I was right there in the sheriff's office while he pleaded for those men to confess to their crime.  I felt his desperation and terror of the crowd outside, and the adrenaline rush when he and his deputies fled for their own lives.  He was a man on his own; however one firefighter helped another prisoner escape.  Other than that, nobody helped them.  Then there was the mob, itself.  As I read those pages, I couldn't believe how good, decent citizens turned into bloodthirsty savages.  But there they were, chanting and raving as the men were dragged out by their peers.  The lynching was a spectator event, and everybody who knew or heard of the Harts attended with their babies and children.  It was appalling and sickening.  The authorities didn't arrive until it was time to gather the bodies and clean up the mess.<br />The St. James Lynching of 1933 was the last to occur here in San Jose.  Since then, the penal system has made several improvements; however, the system leans more toward the civil rights of the criminals than to the victims.  The pendulum always swings left and right, never landing in the middle.  I recommend this book to anyone who is interested in San Jose's history and/or the justice system.  With all terrible tragedies, there is something to learn.ith their babies and children.  It was appalling and sickening.  The authorities didn't arrive until it was time to gather the bodies and clean up the mess.<br />The St. James Lynching of 1933 was the last to occur here in San Jose.  Since then, the penal system has made several improvements; however, the system leans more toward the civil rights of the criminals than to the victims.  The pendulum always swings left and right, never landing in the middle.  I recommend this book to anyone who is interested in San Jose's history and/or the justice system.  With all terrible tragedies, there is something to learn.	2001-05-25
US	53068382	R306YZ9XP45CJ8	0848714601	802491742	Herrschner's Blue-Ribbon Afghans (Crochet Treasury)	Books	5	30	31	N	N	Herrschner's Best	I snagged this book at my local craft store when I saw the Herrschner's label.  Thumbing through it, I saw dozens of beautiful, unique afghans, most of them crochet.  Two-thirds of the book is dedicated to adult afghans, which as one reviewer pointed out will take some time to make.  I am in the process of making the Afghan-Stitch Aran, which has cable, diagonal, and diamond patterns worked in the stitches.  What I liked about this book is the myriad of styles and the easy instructions.  There is something for everybody.<br />Included are two Christmas afghans.  The first pattern was the deciding factor in buying Blue-Ribbon Afghans.  It is a several-paneled piece, done in the Christmas colors, with braided fringe and simple embroidery.  In the panels themselves, are Christmas trees, candy canes, and stars.  You'll have to get the book (or check it out in your local craft store) to see what I'm talking about.  The last third is dedicated to baby afghans, which are cute.  But I prefer the Annie's Attic designs because of their uniqueness.  At the very end of the book are general instructions for knitting, crochet, and finishing touches.  This is an excellent book for the intermidiate to advanced crocheter/knitter.	2001-05-25
US	53068382	R32GH7UCYGZAZ8	0312874766	74115197	Domain	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Can't Wait for the Sequel	Alten obviously expended a tremendous amount of time researching the Mayans, the Nostradamic and Biblical prophecies, etc. to produce such a tight and suspenseful book.  Like one reviewer pointed out, DOMAIN had the feel of an Indiana Jones movie, yet I found it much more fascinating on all levels.  There wasn't a boring page in this book.<br />The characters were well drawn out and interesting, especially Michael Gabriel and his father, Julius.  Alten depicted their relationship well.  The storyline was smooth and highly imaginative.  I'm looking forward to the sequel, The Resurrection.	2001-05-07
US	53068382	R3N7VPWXHY2KFG	0553284347	184585252	Toxic Parents: Overcoming Their Hurtful Legacy and Reclaiming Your Life	Books	3	13	22	N	N	Well-Meaning Advice	I read this book ten years ago, when it came out in hardback.  This is a good book in the aspect that tells the reader that he/she is not alone in dealing with abusive parents.  One of the exercises in Toxic Parents suggests that you talk to the less intimidating of your parents.  So, I tried to talk to my mother.  She blew me off.  At the time, I was very upset and disappointed with this book's advice, which obviously failed.  Or, perhaps it was my approach.  At any rate, I learned that everybody has their own style and pace in dealing with dysfunctional behavior. Another warning: some of the stories may stir up strong emotions.	2001-05-02
US	53068382	R3F3RQG74R9SK5	0440226198	598692359	The Gift of Fear: And Other Survival Signals That Protect Us from Violence	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	Common Sense Tactics	The Gift of Fear does take an in-depth look at the pitfalls of celebrity life as well as addressing the dangers of American society.  DeBecker paints a grim picture of violence in America, but also states that the media is largely responsible for our anxieties and fears.  We hear and see so much violence on television that we are almost desensitized.  Our basic instinct is eroding to the point where we can no longer distinguish the difference between real fear and worry.  He offers scenarious which illustrate the differences between these two emotions.<br />He also states that we have a better chance of hurting ourselves than someone else doing it for us.  How?  We ignore our basic instincts when someone approaches, whose behavior is questionable.  The Gift of Fear not only addresses the signals these people throw at us, but tells us how we should handle that person.<br />In his book, he fictionizes his cases to illustrate how women put themselves in a situation where they beaten, raped, stalked, and murdered.  At the end, he summarizes how they could have avoided their snag.  He points out that the police and judicial system offer little to help these women once they are in this situation.  I, myself, have heard about this scenario many times.<br />What got to me was a thirteen year-old boy, named Eric.  He and his mother had their luggage stolen while on vacation.  The hotel manager was very helpful and 'nice'.  He was so nice that he made a special trip across the country to see this boy.  In short, he was a sexual predator.  Fortunately for Eric, his mother was put off by this man.  Out of all the stories recounted in this book, this one gave me chills.<br />Again, DeBecker lists the danger signs that we should watch out for and the common sense tactics of avoiding these criminals.  At the back of the book, is a list of agencies who help battered women and children cope and survive.  I would recommend this book for everyone.	2001-04-25
US	53068382	RPN9KKSISQTX7	0451201744	232812399	The Walking	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Entertaining	The Walking begins when John Hawks' body starts walking, much to the horror and consternation of his family.  It circles the house for several days before it finally walks into the depths of a nearby lake.  I was hooked after that.<br />Miles Huerdeen is a private investigator who doesn't have any real ambition in life.  I considered him a mediocre character until his father dies of a stroke, then starts walking himself, disappearing from the morgue a day or so after the meatwagon deposits him there.  In the meantime, Miles is investigating a stalking case, involving Liam Conner, a former worker on the dam project of Wolf Canyon.  As he delves deeper into the investigation, he learns that Liam and several of his colleagues made a terrible mistake on a dam project, which killed sixty-three people in the nearby community of Wolf Canyon.<br />The Walking alternates from the present day to nearly one hundred years in the past, when Arizona was a territory.  Back then, Wolf Canyon was established as a community for witches, who were trying to escape the persecution of Christians.  Little weaves an interesting tale, where the founder, William, meets Isabella in the desert.  He senses her evil nature, but becomes spellbound by her.  He brings her to his town and marries her, despite the community's misgivings about her.  Soon, she starts running the town, killing anyone who isn't a witch, then killing any dissenters.  Her victims die horribly.  Several people flee.  Those that stay on, turn a blind eye to her attrocities.<br />I won't say anymore about the plot, but I will tell you that Isabella is the most interesting out of all the characters.  Little depicts her as a powerful witch, then a vampire, then a monster.  She was the ultimate evil, and she was the reason I kept reading this book.  I wanted to know how Miles and his friends were going to destroy her.  Little's description of the desert and the surreal nightmare land were superb; however, I found myself disappointed by the ending.  After a tight, intriguing build-up, the climax ends too quickly and too patly.  I remember feeling this way after I read The Mailman.  My impression is that once Little gets to a certain point in his story, he grows tired of it and wants to move onto something else.  He makes it too easy for the good guy to win.  This is why I give The Walking four stars instead of five.  The book was entertaining while it lasted.nted by the ending.  After a tight, intriguing build-up, the climax ends too quickly and too patly.  I remember feeling this way after I read The Mailman.  My impression is that once Little gets to a certain point in his story, he grows tired of it and wants to move onto something else.  He makes it too easy for the good guy to win.  This is why I give The Walking four stars instead of five.  The book was entertaining while it lasted.	2001-04-15
US	53068382	R3H50HRZWB5BTC	0843947667	187446020	Mischief	Books	5	4	5	N	N	An Author to Look For	I was fortunate enough to read the e-serial novel Nightmare House last summer.  Clegg dealt with Harrow's history in that one, which involved the ultimate haunted mansion, where black magic, spirit summoning, and gruesome murders took place.  I was so enthralled that I went ahead and ordered the hardback from Cemetery Dance, which is coming out sometime this year.  I would recommend that you buy this first, just to get the true nature of Harrow, its founder (Justin Gravesend), who was heavily into the black arts, and its chamber of horrors. It's not necessary, though, because although Harrow is the backdrop of this story it is Jim Hook who is the central figure.  Having lost his father and older brother in a car accident, he is determined to live up to their legacy.  The pressure becomes too much, and he is caught cheating on a history test.  Then comes the Cadaver Society, who are determined to save him from being expelled and make him one of their own.  They try to brainwash him into thinking that his father had an illicit affair the night he and his son were killed.  The Club puts Jim through a series of mind-numbing initiation tests.  The first involves sleeping with a corpse in a mausoleum.  After he passes that test, he seeks out the girl whom his dad had had that affair with.  The girl tells him the truth about that night (I won't spoil it.) and he goes back to the dorm.  The boys snatch him up for the final initiation test, where they take him into the bowels of the Harrow mansion.  They stick him in a small chamber with another corpse, that of a boy named Miles, whose ghost has haunted Jim since the beginning of the story.  Thus begins a trip into a hell which Jim may never come out of.  Does he?  Well, you'll have to read the book to find out. What I like most about Douglas Clegg's work is that he doesn't rely too heavily on gore to get his message across.  He weaves his plots together with an intriguing twist that always keeps the reader guessing until the final climax of the story.  He is definitely an author to watch out for.e final climax of the story.  He is definitely an author to watch out for.	2001-04-03
US	53068382	RDC442ZAY6QYE	1862048193	647969610	Relax, It's Only  A Ghost	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A Fun Read	I read this book in a day, due to the conversational style in which it was written.  Echo Bodine starts off her book with a short bio of her background, then launches into her case stories.  Two of them, Bobby Mackey's Music World (Kentucky) and The Log Cabin in the Woods (Colorado Springs) were featured on the program, Sightings.  I was just as intrigued with her story as I was with the Sightings account.  I enjoyed every story, but found myself wishing for a more detailed account.  She was not always successful at banishing the ghosts, which made the book seem more real.<br />Bodine gives you basic instructions on how to &quot;cleanse&quot; your house should it contain a ghost or two.  She also recommends that you don't search the phonebook for a medium, but to inquire around for one.  What I didn't agree with was her statement in regard to sighting ability.  Several skeptics have seen ghosts, although they quickly rationalize what they saw.  Definitely worth reading.	2001-03-10
US	53068382	R1ORFWCV75MDR4	0553801341	255570129	From the Corner of His Eye	Books	1	7	10	N	N	Better Luck Next Time	I read the first eight chapters and thought, &quot;Yuck!&quot;  The good characters were so syrupy sweet that I wanted to puke right alongside Enoch Cain.  I guess that's why he pushed that perfect wife of his off the tower, right?  Anybody out there agree with me??  I continued up to the part where Barty's parents are involved in the car accident.  The perfect husband names his son before he dies, and the couple share a 1970ish melodramatic goodbye.  Then I put the book down. I talked to a friend, who is also an avid Koontz fan, who told me that the ending was lame.  Some reviewers agreed.  I'm sorry to be such a harsh critic on this one, but Koontz should have worked on his characters some more.  Some reviewers complained that the story was too drawn out.  I like long stories, if I care about the characters.  Sorry, Koontz.  Better luck next time.	2001-03-08
US	53068382	R3PDHAYLM75Q6I	0688174035	136587156	More Than You Know: A Novel	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Captivating	This book starts out with Hannah Gray Ober, now elderly, as she describes the town of Dundee and the schoolhouse (which came from a now-deserted island) that is haunted by the malevolent spirit of an old woman.  She knows it is haunted because she lived there one hot summer with her stepmother, Edith and her brother, Stephen.  The story bounces back to the mid-eighteen hundreds when Claris Osgood celebrated her tenth birthday, when even then, she felt like an outcast within her own family.  More Than You Know continues like this, bouncing between Hannah Gray and Claris Osgood Haskall. Hannah, then a teenaged girl, is dealing with her step-mother's harsh attitude while trying to solve the mystery surrounding the schoolhouse where she is living.  With the help of the town badboy, Conary Crocker, and some of the townsfolk of Dundee, she starts to unravel the mystery surrounding the murder of Daniel Haskall, husband to Claris Osgood and father of Sallie. Claris marries Danial Haskall against her family's wishes and moves to the island across the bay.  She soon finds herself disillusioned with Danial and his way of life, but finds herself stuck.  After several stillborns, she gives birth to two children, Amos and Sallie.  Amos is obviously her favorite, while Sallie is often ignored because she looks so much like her father.  Amos dies after an argument with his father, which sends him into the bay in a storm.  This sets the stage for Danial's grisly murder, which Sallie is blamed for.  She is tried twice, but never convicted.  Nobody is sure who commited the murder--Sallie, Claris, or Mercy Chatto, the schoolteacher whom Danial impregnated. Hannah, in the meantime, falls in love with Conary despite the town's disapproval.  They are halfway through the mystery when the summer ends.  Hannah is depressed because she has to leave for Boston to go with her father.  After a beautiful day at the State Fair, she tries to convince Conary to run away with her.  He thinks it is better that they go home.  On their way, they see a woman walking along the side of the road and stop to pick her up.  It is the ghost of the Haskall woman (which one still remains a mystery), who exacts her revenge. While Hannah's story is sad, Claris and Sallie's is truly horrifying.  I couldn't put the book down.  I've never read any of Beth Gutcheon's other books, so I can't say whether or not this is her best.  More Than You Know is a well-thought out ghost story/romance/mystery that deserves to have a large audience.tter that they go home.  On their way, they see a woman walking along the side of the road and stop to pick her up.  It is the ghost of the Haskall woman (which one still remains a mystery), who exacts her revenge. While Hannah's story is sad, Claris and Sallie's is truly horrifying.  I couldn't put the book down.  I've never read any of Beth Gutcheon's other books, so I can't say whether or not this is her best.  More Than You Know is a well-thought out ghost story/romance/mystery that deserves to have a large audience.	2001-02-15
US	53068382	R1CAFI6YTRCKWW	0812551087	54083502	Horror Show	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Cheers to B-Rated Horror flicks!	Kihn starts out his story in 1996, where an eager reporter named Clint Stockbern manages to bribe his way into an interview with legendary B-Horror director, Landis Woodley.  Woodley and his house are creepy, but that's just the sort of thing Stockbern loves.  Woodley catapults you back to 1957, when horror movies were gaining popularity and Hollywood was in its early stages of rot and corruption.  Landis and his band of misfits get together and a throw a Halloween bash, hoping the elite of the filmmaking business will show.  They do manage to get &quot;the horror queen&quot; of television (Devila) and renowned Satanist (Albert Beaumond) to come.  Albert takes Devila to his house, where he shows her a set of tuning forks he had stolen from an Indian tribe in Peru.  These forks contain an ancient, terrible power, which he demonstrates with horrifying results.  Devila flees the house when his body becomes possessed by a demon.  She returns the next day and finds Albert delirious with fever.  She steals the forks and takes them to Landis, hoping to make a fortune.  She forgets to prepare for the ritual.  The demon possesses her and drives her insane.  She kills herself two days later.  Then it goes after Albert, who has climbed an electrical tower in the mountains.  Albert succeeds in killing himself, trapping the demon inside his body.  This ends Albert's troubles, but his body winds up in the LA County Morgue, where Landis and his crew are filming a shock-movie they call Cadaver.  Albert's badly decomposed body is a godsend to them.  They make the film, and Landis Woodley is given a taste of success, which doesn't last for very long.  He and his crew are cursed by the demon, who has claimed all but Landis.  His turn is comes in 1996, unbeknownst to Clint Stockbern, who is unaware of the thing hiding under the basement crawlspace. Horror Show is a fast-paced chiller with plenty of blood-curdling screams, ghosts, demonic posssessions, etc.  A great yarn to pass the time.e.	2001-02-10
US	53068382	R1NOSLFGQ5ZODN	0816041067	588146409	Descriptionary (Facts on File Writer's Library)	Books	3	19	22	N	N	Simple and Straight-Forward	This dictionary is simple to understand and broadly categorized.  If you are looking for an obscure term, such as in the occult, then this isn't the book to buy.  Word Menu is still my first choice because it covers more topics in more detail.  Descriptionary has one feature that I found attractive. At the back is a section, titled &quot;1,050 Words and Expressions You Should Know&quot;.	2001-02-10
US	53068382	R3IIZ5XQSO18EY	0684872730	318753432	The Vision of Emma Blau	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The American Dream	The Vision of Emma Blau is about family ties and family legacies.  It starts out with Stefan Blau, who immigrates to America when he was 13.  After a terrible fire sweeps through his apartment complex, killing his friend and mentor, Stefan moves to Winnepausakee, New Hampshire, where he conceives the idea of erecting an elaborate apartment building.  He names it the Wasserburg. The Wasserburg is a symbol of pride, not only for the townspeople, but for its inhabitants.  Especially for Stefan, who pours his heart and soul into it, along with his restaurant business.  What he doesn't realize until late in life, is that his obsession with the Wasserburg has a price.  His children have grown up without knowing their father.  His relationship with his third wife, Helene is strained and distant.  It isn't until the moment before he dies that he realizes that his granddaughter, Emma, will carry his burden. Consumed with passion for the Wasserburg, Emma Blau convinces her aging mother to sign over the deed for the apartment building.  By this time, the place is deteriorating; all the original &quot;family&quot; of tenants have died, replaced by apathetic people who try to dodge the rent; and she is at odds with her brother because she stole his inheritance. She is determined to recapture the Wasserburg's grandeur and style.  In the end, she is faced with with two questions:  Is the Wasserburg worth throwing her life away?  Or, is her family more important? This was a very good book, in my opinion.  Hegi took me into an era where community and family were a vital part of life, when the &quot;American Dream&quot; was still attainable.  The only flaw I saw was the constant switch in point of view.  Sometimes, I found myself going back to the previous paragraph when say Stefan turned into Helene.  She managed to pull it off, though.  I look forward to reading her other books.	2001-02-03
US	53068382	R2D8CGUB5YM8DX	0738809322	286407379	A Certain Slant of Light	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Intriguing	This is a very unsual ghost story.  Megan McCloud commits suicide to escape her father's roving hands and her drunken mother's indifference.  Liz Durham dies when she steps off a curb.  The two die at the exact same moment.  One is destined for Hell, the other, Heaven.  But something happens, and their souls get crossed.  They are suspended in limbo, where they have to figure out what happened to them before Death claims their souls for Hell. Certain Slant is highly imaginative and suspenseful, but it has one major flaw.  Liz shivered so much that I wanted to give her an Alaskan parka and several down comforters to warm her up.  Also, there were many typos in the book.  That is the one downside to these print-on-demand publishers; they do not check your work for errors.  For those aspiring writers who cannot get that Big Break, hire an editor or proofreader to look over your work before you submit to Xlibris or any publisher of this caliber.  You'll turn out a more polished piece of work that will eventually get picked up by a prospective agent or big-name publisher. Aside from this bone, I loved the book.  I couldn't put it down until I finished it.  Chandler McGrew has definite talent.	2001-02-03
US	53068382	RN2SGGLRBZYG9	1587670070	645323158	Mediums Rare	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Metaphysical History Made Interesting	I bought this book thinking this was fiction.  It is, but it isn't.  Mediums Rare is a short compendium of famous psychics throughout history, told in a fictitous format.  Masterson starts out with the story of King Croesus of Lydia, which took place around five forty-six b.c.  Croesus wanted to declare war on a neighboring country.  So, he sent out an envoy to seven oracles to ask them the same question. &quot;What is King Croesus doing today?  The first six failed, and the seventh passed.  King Croesus asked the seventh oracle what would happen if he invaded the neighboring country?  The oracle said that a great army will be defeated.  King Croesus assumed his army would win and didn't see the need to ask the oracle whether or not this was true.  Lydia lost the war. There are other stories, such as the Fox Sisters and Nettie Colburn, who advised Abraham Lincoln visit the Army of the Potomac (which ultimately ended slavery in America).  Out of all of them, the story of Edgar Cayce is the most extraordinary.  Supposedly, he was visited by an angel, who gave him his special ability when he was thirteen years old.  It is said that Cayce gave 14,256 psychic readings. At the end of the book, Masterson summaries each case and talks about the decline of the spiritual craze of the 19th century.  Scientists no longer ridule people who claim to be psychic like they did in the late 1800s and early 1900s, but study them. For those of you who enjoy Richard Matheson's stories, or the subject of the paranormal, this does not disappoint.	2000-12-24
US	53068382	R1HZROTAY7JXHY	0670847682	128677783	The Complete Book of Baking	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Wonderful Gift for Bakers	Like the other reviewers, I bought this book when it came out in 1993.  Back then, I needed some different recipes for my Christmas cookie party.  The Complete Book of Baking offers everything from the classic recipes such as Peanut Blossoms to the newer Cranberry and Orange Pinwheels.  I've baked many different kinds of cookies as well as breads, using this cookbook, and all of them are easy to follow.  It's a shame that this book is now out of stock because my husband has used it so much that the pages are starting to come loose.  His favorite recipe is the praline pecan cheesecake, which he makes every year.  Our families have bragged about his cheesecakes to every one of their friends.  Yet not one of them has asked where he got the recipe.	2000-12-24
US	53068382	RA18I96170TJ5	0843947527	402076302	The Deceased	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A Good Mix of Horror/Fantasy	An avid reader of ghost stories, I plucked this book off the shelf as soon as I laid eyes on it.  The Deceased is a combination of horror and fantasy, intertwined with mystery.  Jacob Maelstrom is a popular slash and gore writer who is haunted by the gruesome murder/suice of his entire family.  The story begins at a local neighborhood park, where Jacob sits and compares his work with that of his late father, Isaac.  On the tenth anniversary of the slaying, Jacob sets out for the family's island home to work out the tragedy. What he finds instead are the strange creatures, whom he calls the muses, and Elizabeth, a sick little girl who calls to him from his bedroom closet.  Then there is the family--brother Joseph, who hates him for no apparent reason; Rachel, who killed her family but spared Jacob; and Mom, a weak wallflower who seems resigned to her fate.  In the meantime, Lisa (his agent/mentor's secretary/lover) and her fragile best friend, Katie, follow Jacob out to the house.  Lisa hopes this trip will save Katie, an avid fan of Jacob's, from committing suicide over the loss of her lover and unborn child.  Unbeknownst to them, the chaos has already begun inside the Maelstrom house. The women soon find out that something is heinously wrong with the house and Jacob.  Both try to fight their way out as Jacob learns some new truths about his relationship with his father shortly before the climax.  The Deceased is a highly original and should not be missed by horror fans.	2000-12-01
US	53068382	R87Y9W2Z59N68	0789460939	834073287	DK LEGO Readers: Trouble at the Bridge (Level 1: Beginning to Read)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great Reading for the Lego Fanatic	My five year-old is not a big reader.  So, I was very excited when I saw this book at the school Book Fair.  He sat with me the whole time, asking questions about the pictures.  The storyline is very simple.  The Lego people are building a bridge.  The Brickster robs a nearby bank and hides in the crane bucket, where he gets trapped when the crane breaks down.  Brickster has to be rescued by the fire department.  The Lego people finish their bridge and everybody lives happily ever after, except for Brickster.	2000-11-28
US	53068382	R1F4BIB7GZ1XMC	031226254X	629256696	Adams Fall	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Wild Ride	Man, this book is freaky.  There is also a bit of humor in this story, when Desmond describes the college life.  Desmond delivers a powerful emotional punch throughout his story.  I didn't have time to read it in one sitting, but I was continually drawn to the book until I finished it.The protagonist in Adams Fall does not have a name.  Yet he takes you on a tour through the College and its gothic setting, his anxiety and guilt over the suicide of his friend, Billy, and his descent into madness as he tries to uncover a sinister presence within the school that torments him.The creepiest aspect of this book is Desmond's depiction of paranoia and madness as this guy wonders if someone is setting him up for a fall.  The fine line between reality and delusion is constantly crossed.  The guy's continual alcohol and drug abuse does not help his situation.  In fact, his constant partying made me wonder if he wasn't spun out and imagining the whole thing.  Adams Fall deserves an award for Best First Novel.  I would be sorely disappointed if it didn't receive a nomination.  For all you horror fans out there, get this book if you haven't already.  It will keep you thinking for a long time.	2000-11-18
US	53068382	R3FVM7JMWZ13IV	0590691414	918249820	Frozen (INSOMNIACS)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Big Attitude Adjustment	This book is 82 pages short, which was good in one sense--Gerard.  Gerard is the most popular boy in school and he knows it.  He is so full of himself that he thinks he can wow the new girl in school with no problem.  But Sadie doesn't like him.Gerard tries everything to get Sadie's attention, but she ignores him.  After he humiliates the class nerd, things start going bad for him.  His supplies are stolen out of his desk and he can't seem to get rid of this chill, despite the extreme heat.Gerard becomes obsessed over Sadie and not in the love-crush sense; he thinks the Haitian girl is pulling a voodoo curse on him by stealing his things so she can make a doll.One night, he sets out to prove this.  When he reaches her house, he sneaks up to her bedroom window and finds her sitting on the floor, surrounded by candles.  Gerard's fears are realized in a very chilling way.I think kids will enjoy this book because it is written on their level.  Martin portrays the school heirarchy very well.  His writing is fast paced, with plenty of dark humor.  So, if you're looking for a Christmas gift for your young teen, consider this book.	2000-11-02
US	53068382	R81T52REPIRKA	0963402951	515017332	Adobe Angels: Arizona Ghost Stories	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Spooks of the Southwest	The major complaint I have with this book is all the typos.  Putting that aside, Arizona Ghost Stories was a very interesting read.  Every chapter deals with a specific town or city.  Garcez gives a short bio and location of the area before he launches into the ghost story itself.  Most of the hauntings took place in or around a home, though there are other sites such as saloons (big surprise), a hotel, a courthouse, and a prison.  The accounts were written down as though the narrators were talking themselves.The most chilling was the haunting which occurred in a rural area outside of Phoenix.  Two women were on a nature hike when they met up with a couple.  The four of them got acquainted with each other.  They were talking among themselves when one of the women caught a naked Indian woman running across the desert.  Blood seeped though her fingers as she held onto her stomach.  From two hundred yards away, the people felt her intense fear as she was obviously running from something or someone.  They tried to run after her, but she literally vanished.  Park rangers have also spotted this ghost while they were out surveying the land.There are two haunted sites (maybe more that are not included in this book) in Yuma.  The first is the Yuma Court House.  It is haunted by an elderly caretaker, who gave the night watchman a good scare.  The second, is the old prison, which is now an historical landmark.  The most affected of that area is the Dark Cell, where several inmates went insane after several days of solitary confinement.  If you enjoy true-to-life ghost stories, I think you will like this book.	2000-11-02
US	53068382	R5FZI9V9N9AUZ	0684853523	44310359	On Writing:  A Memoir of the Craft	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	Straight-Shooter Writing	I have been an avid reader of Stephen King's books for twenty years.  This book is a culmination of his entire career, starting out with his basement-run newspaper.  I wonder how many of his writer fans will start nailing their rejection letters to their walls with spikes.On Writing is one-third autobiography and two-thirds how-to.  I enjoyed the whole book, particularly the spike and the high school newspaper that got him in trouble with the faculty and landed him his first job as a sports writer.In the how-to sections, he talks about grammar, style, punctuation, etc.  There is even an excerise involving changing the point of view in a scene, which you can send to his e-mail address.  He also talks about what it was like to be an alcoholic and drug addict while trying to keep his career afloat, and how  writing saved him and his family.Last, but not least, he talks about the accident that nearly killed him.  He relates the actual occurrence in a mechanical tone, which didn't surprise me due to the nature of his injuries and the amount of pain he was (and still is) in.  The anger against Bryan Smith (now deceased) is quite clear.  He'll get through that like he has through everything else­­by writing.	2000-10-16
US	53068382	R2Y6DR0F03J3XQ	0613021339	566679905	The Three Little Wolves And The Big Bad Pig (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A Funny Spin-off from one of America's Classics	Everyone knows the story of The Three Little Pigs.  This story, as the title suggests, switches the roles.  The three little wolves build heavy-duty fortresses, all of which the big bad pig destroys in ingenious and humorous ways.  My sons laughed throughout the story.  Finally, the wolves build a house out of sticks and flowers.  Their scent tames the savage beast and they live happily ever after.The illustrations add to the already humorous plot.  I liked this version better than the classic because it teaches children that although there are consequences for bad behavior, the pig was forgiven instead of banished.	2000-10-16
US	53068382	R3EDJMXIUAKFTP	0440129559	200954019	Ghost Child	Books	3	5	5	N	N	A Product from the '80s Horror Boom	After a heart attack, Dr. Rufus Talman moves his family from the hustle and bustle of New York City to peaceful Glendon, Vermont.  The scenery is pretty, the townsfolk nice, and their new home charming.The Talmans don't know about the mass murders, which took place in the upstairs toyroom until after they move in.  Mickie Talman picks up the behavioral changes in her husband and teenaged-son, Todd almost immediately.  She starts to investigate the house's history when she suspects that it is haunted.  But what she doesn't realize is that she is too late.  The sins of the past will repeat themselves in one horrific moment, shattering the community and her life.I read the Owlsfane Horror when it was printed back in '82.  The scene where the woman was trapped inside a mausoleum was conjured up when Mickie went to examine Benjamin Cuttings's coffin.  I thought for sure she was going to get trapped inside that mausoleum.  The book was fast-paced and easy to read, what with people getting killed all over the place.  Then there were the possessions of Rufus and Todd Talman, both of whom seemed dimly aware that something was out of character.I would've liked to have seen a psychic come in and investigate the house, but this is classic 1980's horror, where everyone runs around mindlessly until they are either killed off or permanently scarred.  What I thought was particularly stupid was the mothers allowing their daughters over at the house when they knew full well that something was wrong with the place and its new occupants.  Then there were the toys.  If Mickie had had the guts to go over her husband's head and destroy them, she might've been able to save her family and friends.  But that would've cut 150 pages out of the story, I suppose.	2000-10-16
US	53068382	R3K2VAX3W47L9O	0440224829	940363725	Granny Dan	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A Slice of History	I am not a romance fan.  However, I've read a few of Danielle Steel's books and enjoyed them.  Granny Dan was no exception.  The story took place  in the midst of World War I and the Russian Revolution.  Danina Petroskova  was brought to the Maryinksi Ballet when she was seven years old, while her  family fought in the war.  Frightened at first, she learned to love her new  home and became obsessed with being a prima ballerina.  At nineteen, she  was stricken with the influenza virus which almost killed her.  She  survived it and was sent to live with the Czar and his family to  recuperate.  There, she falls in love with her doctor, Nikolai Obrajensky,  who is married with children.  That, their stations in life, and the  war-ravaged world threaten to destroy their relationship.The reason I give  this book a four star review?  Because two thirds of the way into it, the  story becomes repetitive.  Should I leave and go with this man or should I  stay with the ballet?  I tore through the pages thinking, &quot;Let's get  on with it, already!&quot;But then the story takes a climatic turn, forcing  her into action.  Granny Dan is a story within a story.  The prologue  involves Danina's granddaughter, who discovers her love letters in a box,  among other things.  The epilogue deals with what happened to Nikolai, her  father and remaining brother, her mentor.  Some of you might want to keep a  box of kleenex handy.	2000-08-27
US	53068382	R1OVUPCSXOGHYK	1558747699	63253931	Chicken Soup for the Writer's Soul: Stories to Open the Heart and Rekindle the Spirit of Writers	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Must-Have for Every Writer	I've been glancing at the Chicken Soup series ever since they started coming out.  When I saw an advertisement for this book, I immediately set  out for the bookstore and picked up my copy.  What can I say about this  book that hasn't been said already?  It is inspirational, yes.  The stories  touched my heart in many ways.  But that was not all.  I felt connected  with these people, some of whom had a very difficult time with life, in  getting their stories published, and staying published.  Some hit the  lowest point in their lives before something (or someone) touched their  hearts and brought them back.  I read a story last night about how a 21  year-old drug addict discovered that he was alive after he wrote his first  essay during a prison writing course.  There are too many stories to list  here, but I will tell you that each one of them touched me in some way.  Some of them made me laugh outright.  But most importantly, they spurned me  to do what I need to do most­­write, write, and write.  I have just  finished my manuscript, and when I get my first rejection letter, I will  turn back to this book and see all of those who made it despite the many  that they received.  I will turn back to it when I need a little boost to  jumpstart my creative juices.  I will turn back to it when I need to  connect to other people just like me.	2000-08-10
US	53068382	R30HAYFNOW033V	0375503935	431556445	Magic Terror: 7 Tales	Books	2	1	5	N	Y	Check it out from the Library	Out of the seven stories in this book, I found three to be worthwhile reads.  Ashputtle was pathetically disturbing.  The woman should've been  committed a long time ago.  I gave up on &quot;Isn't It Romantic?&quot;  after the second page.  I found I couldn't give two hoots what happened to  N.  The Ghost Villiage was creepy.  This involves a platoon of soldiers who  stumble upon a deserted villiage and discover a hidden torture chamber  beneath a hut.  The ghosts of the victims follow them out.  Then, the  ghosts of the fallen platoon members start haunting the survivors.  That  story was good.Bunny Is Good Bread was very intense and very disturbing.  It involves a five year-old boy who watches his mother die slowly while his  father beats him continually.  I read the story all the way through, but it  left a bad taste inside my brain.  That kid should've gotten a happy  ending.Porkpie Hat was the best story in the collection.  Straub could've  cut out most of Part One and condensed it into a paragraph.  It is about a  famous musician named Hat, who witnessed a brutal murder in the backwoods  of his community.  There was a lot of dark magic and tragic consequences,  which carried through the rest of the man's life.  I liked it.Hunger, an  Introduction and Mr. Clubb and Mr. Cuff, I gave up on.I hate to give this  such a bad review because I really like Peter Straub's stories.  This is  his first dud, I think.  Sorry, Peter.	2000-08-02
US	53068382	R1TRS7KB38FC72	0345433297	38926947	Nightshade	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Dark Secrets, Dark Minds	The Hapgood family is seemingly perfect until Emily Moore moves in with them.  Then things start to fall apart at a break-neck pace.  Bill Hapgood is shot to death while he and his step-son Matt are out on a ritual hunting  trip.  Matt is accused immediately and is ostracized by everyone in town,  except his mother, Joan.  He is forced to deal with his grief and remorse  for something he may or may not have committed.  He isn't sure because  before, during, and after the accident, his long-dead aunt is haunting him.  Perhaps making him do things that he would never think of doing, such as  killing his step-father in a homicidal rage.  He isn't sure because he  can't remember.  All he can remember is the heavy perfume called  Nightshade, a pair of arms holding him while he's aiming his rifle at the  deer, and a seductive voice telling him to do it.Joan Hapgood, in the  meantime, is forced to deal with her husband's death, Matt's involvement in  the case, and the ghosts of her past.  Mainly, those of her sister,  Cynthia, and her mother, Emily.  Saul weaves their relationship into a  tightly woven knot of pain, which slowly unravels until Joan is completely  insane and all the dark family secrets are revealed to Matt in one  explosive climax.I read the last two-thirds of this book in one day, never  quite sure if the ghost of Cynthia Moore existed or if it was a figment of  Joan and Matt's imagination.  The last two chapters were throughly creepy.  It wouldn't surprise me if this book were made into a movie.	2000-07-23
US	53068382	R3J53I6L0XLABI	1567185851	433954541	Blessing in Disguise: Another Side of the Near Death Experience	Books	5	54	56	N	Y	The Best in the Field	There are hundreds of books on the subject of Near Death Experience (or NDE).  Most of them are filled with positive experiences such as meeting loved ones, angels, and beautiful landscapes.  I bought this book because  it covered the darker aspects of NDE, which Rommer calls LTP (or Less Than  Positive) experiences.  One statement made in the book stands out very  clearly.  If you expect hellfire and brimstone, that's what you're going to  get.There were a wide variety of individual accounts, some of them typical  of the NDE.  But she also covers those who have misinterpreted their  experiences as bad.  Such as those who had relived all the horrible aspects  of their lives before being resucitated.  Those she labeled Type II LTPs.  The type IIIs, I found disturbing.  Many of these people suffered from  depression and/or drug abuse of varying degrees, or they were brought up to  believe that their soul would go to Hell for all the sins they committed  during their lifetime.  Some of these people had attempted suicide, either  overtly or covertly.  Every account was distinctly different from the next,  but every one of these people were given the same message.  They could face  up to their misgivings or misperceptions and change their own destinies.  Many of them have.Blessing in Disguise is the most informative book I've  read on Near Death Experiences.  It isn't clinical or watered-down, like  some of the books by Moody and Ring.  Another good book is &quot;Beyond the  Darkness, My Near-Death Journey to the Edge of Hell and Back,&quot; by  Angie Fenimore.	2000-07-23
US	53068382	R1C79SCIZJD0DM	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Excellent	I started reading this to my six year-old son about a month ago.  It was slow going, mainly because of his attention span.  But he's been enjoying it, nevertheless.  As I was reading it to him, I became enthralled with the  adventure and wound up reading the book by myself.  It was a great,  fast-paced read that brought out the child in me.Like everybody else, I've  been hearing the controversy.  Yes, there are some situations in the story  that might scare small children.  Pick up a book of fairy tales­­or, better  yet, turn on the TV.  The cartoons and kids' shows are much more violent  and graphic than anything in this book.  The Harry Potter series is  destined to be a classic for many generations.	2000-07-19
US	53068382	R1P8QEYL39DOCA	0375700838	295933573	Random House Webster's Word Menu (Random House Newer Words Faster)	Books	5	22	22	N	Y	Indespensible	Has anyone heard of Eschatology?  I hadn't until my writing instructor used that word in a letter he sent to me.  Baffled, I looked it up in the Webster's Dictionary, but didn't find it.  I checked with The Synonym  Finder, but it wasn't listed there either.  Finally, I turned to this book  and found it in the table of contents.  Eschatology is the study of  afterlife.This book has been a godsend for me as a creative writer.  There  were times when I was writing a scene and couldn't think of a word to  describe something or a term I couldn't remember.  Most of the time, I  found what I was looking for in these pages.Word Menu is broken down into  four parts.  Part One deals with Nature­­The human body, living things, and  the earth.  Chapter One (The Human Body) is then divided into five  subcategories­­Anatomy, Medical Problems, Health/Fitness/Enhancement, Hair  and Grooming, Phsyical Appearance.  Under these, you will find hundreds of  definitions, terms, and cross-references.This dictionary covers everything  from everyday items, customs, religions, etc. to the obscure and strange.  For example, Eschatology.  Word Menu is an indespensible tool for any type  of writer, student, or anyone who wants to learn something.	2000-07-13
US	53068382	R195ABE80BXJEP	0962747602	161838090	Plots Unlimited: A Creative Source for Generating a Virtually Limitless Number and Variety of Story Plots and Outlines	Books	2	23	30	N	N	A Useless Tool for Novel Writing	I met the author of this book/software at a writer's conference in 1999.  He gave it a lot of hype, saying that this can cure writer's block.  So, I bought both and took them home.  I installed the program, tried out the  tutorial, and tried to use it to cure my own writer's block.  I was sorely  disappointed by the lack of variety and an 80's feel of the plot  situations.  I wound up returning the software because 1) It wasn't user  friendly, 2) It didn't meet my needs, and 3) It was overpriced for what it  had to offer.The book is basically lists all the plot options available in  the software.  Don't get me wrong, the concept of the book/software is  great.  Sawyer just needs to develop it more and modernize his plot  segments.  This book, I feel, is good for subplots or short stories.  All  you have to do is take the basic premise of each segment and tweak it until  it suits your needs.	2000-07-04
US	53068382	R34EYTOBUGJQBL	0375503935	431556445	Magic Terror: 7 Tales	Books	3	3	5	N	Y	Wait Until the Paperback Comes Out	Out of seven stories, three were worth the read.  The Ghost Village was the first.  It is about a platoon of soldiers who stumble upon a deserted village, discovering a chamber of horror beneath a hut.  Then there are the  ghosts, who include fellow platoon members as well as the villagers.  I  think I'll remember this story for a long time.The second was Bunny is Good  Bread.  Place yourself in the shoes of a five year-old boy, who is forced  to watch his crazy father care for his dying mother while trying to keep  the latter a secret from the outside world.  Gruesome.Porkpie Hat was my  favorite, although I think Straub could have cut out much of Part One,  editing it down to a page or two.  After the narrator finds legendary jazz  musician Hat, the story really takes off.  Hat retells his horrifying  journey into the backwoods (called &quot;The Backs&quot;) of Mississippi,  where he and a friend witness a brutal murder of a white girl behind a  black community.  The two kids escape The Backs, but not after being seen,  and not without personal repercussions.The rest of the stories just didn't  do much for me in the way of suspense or horror.	2000-07-03
US	53068382	R1D5MFCV6P172F	0553105639	317255283	Places in the Dark	Books	4	0	3	N	N	A Good Mystery Novel	This novel, set in the early 20th century, deals with love and murder.  The narrator, Calvin Chase, is obsessed with his brother's death and with finding Dora March, who fled the scene after her brother dies inside her  house.  He is certain that she killed Billy and sets about solving the case  himself.  Most of the story focuses on the past, before Billy meets Dora  and the events which lead up to his death.The only time I got confused was  in the last few chapers, where the past and the present collide.  I had to  read it slowly in order to absorb everything that was going on.  Places in  the Dark isn't just a murder mystery.  It involves two brothers, both  obsessed with a mysterious woman.  The murder resolution turned out to be  quite different than I expected, one which didn't fit with the ominous tone  of the story.  I guess that's why I gave it four stars instead of five.	2000-07-03
US	53068382	RVJCNIL1R7WVD	0679736395	883298002	Darkness Visible: A Memoir of Madness	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	An Honest Portrayal	Wow!  What a gut-wrenching story!  Stick yourself in a world where your home is now your prison.  Where every day seems like a relentless effort, filled with paralyzing fear, complete self-loathing, and agonizing  hopelessness.  Then watch several of your friends die from this same  affliction.  That's where this guy was at.  I'm glad this book was 84 pages  instead of 300 because of the unflinching honesty in what Styron had to  say.  He talks about his depression, the onset, and (much later in the  book), what triggered it.His portrayal of the psychiatric profession was  chilling.  But he managed to seek out an intelligent doctor, who helped him  through the illness.  He has since come out of his depression, which he  says has to run its course, despite all the pills and therapy that are  available today.This book was very educational.  It helped me recognize  some of my own symptoms and made me realize that there is a light at the  end of the tunnel­­pardon the cliche'.  I would recommend this book to  anyone who has loved ones who are suffering from this crippling disease.	2000-07-03
US	53068382	R6U2T3GF84H4J	0786010908	550785290	Haunted	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	A Modern-Day Classic	There were many things I loved about this book. It has all the thrills and chills of a great ghost story.  The sexual undertones are marvelous, without getting overly graphic.  I found the history of Baudey House  horrific, sad, and interesting.  It didn't surprise me that the past  victims were town members.  The murders, I found were reminiscent of some  of the serial killings I have read about (both fact and fiction).  I  haven't read much on the subject of voodoo, so I can't compare.  But it did  shock me that a teenaged girl was capable of such attrocities.The story was  fast-paced and tightly woven, its descriptions and character depictions  excellent.  Ms. Thorne fleshed out the spirits so well that if it weren't  for their ghostly appearances and actions, you might mistake them for solid  nemesises.  They were truly frightening, and so were their deeds.  The last  half of the book was so tense and engrossing that I had to sit there and  finish it in one sitting.  I look forward to reading Ms. Thorne's next  novel.	2000-06-16
US	53068382	R2UYXNB0F63YHL	0671796607	339938610	Healing After the Suicide of a Loved One	Books	5	83	84	N	Y	Powerful Insight of a Terrible Tragedy	I bought this book nearly four years after my brother took his own life.  I wish I'd bought this sooner.  The authors did a great job conveying how many of us feel after such a tragedy.  This book covers every emotional  aspect of suicide survivors and includes a listing of Suicide Prevention  and Crisis Centers by state and city.Chapter 3, which covers guilt, was  especially helpful because it covers all the what-ifs and should-haves.  It  explains how that emotion can destroy your health and family, and that  there was really nothing you could've done to prevent this from happening.   Suicide does not stem from one particular argument or pitfall in a person's  life; it is a culmination of things.Chapter 5 is about ambivalence, which  covers anger as well as putting the deceased on a pedestal.  Another aspect  was relief.  Those cases I found heartbreaking because of the problems the  person put his family through before they died.Chapter 6 talks about the  normal depression after the loss versus clinical depression, the latter  which many suicides suffer before they die.Chapters 8 through 11 cover the  different relationships between the suicide victim and the survivors.  I  wish they had included a chapter on the friends that were left behind  because this doesn't just affect the family.  The last chapter covers the  siblings, most of which didn't pertain to me.  But I did learn from it.The  last two chapters of the book cover the pitfalls and healing.  This was  what I was looking for.  In all, this is a good book to read.  It is  written well and has a straight-forward, honest approach.  I read this in  two days and plan to pass it on to my family.	2000-06-10
US	53068382	R2IDGM2VS13WO0	0786706201	56891655	Dancing with the Dark: True Encounters with the Paranormal by Masters of the Macabre	Books	5	12	16	N	N	A Good Compilation of Ghost Stories	Okay, so they spelled Stephen King's name wrong on the cover.  So, what?  If found this book fascinating and entertaining at the same time.  It is filled with stories by famous authors, both past and present.  The one that  sticks out the most is Ramsey Campbell's &quot;The Nearest to a  Ghost.&quot;  He goes to the cemetery to scatter his mother's ashes and  feels a powerful sense of grief that isn't his own.  The feeling vanishes  after a moment, his own grief returning.  Creepy, huh?  This is one of  about thirty true-life experiences these people came face-to-face with.  A  great read.	2000-06-10
US	53068382	RKG1UD0LBKEUF	1567184146	129396977	Violent Weather Predictions 2000-2001: Countdown to Cataclysm	Books	2	13	15	N	Y	Dial a Storm	I bought this book mainly out of curiosity.  The main theme I got was the correlation between past geological disasters, such as the eruptions of Mount Vesuvius and the disappearance of Atlantis, and what the future has  in store for us.  What I read wasn't really that big of a surprise.  California has been expecting The Big Quake for decades, and each year I  hear that it could come in the next thirty years.  There is no countdown or  predicted date because nobody knows.What the author is trying to do is  predict when certain storms or eruptions will pop up in any given area by  using the astrological positions of the planets.  She lists each geological  area, along with the date and the disaster that is supposed to strike.  If  I had a choice between believing the weatherman and this book, I think I'll  look outside and use my common sense.	2000-05-18
US	53068382	RV6HKN460BU1X	0898795249	64859774	Cause of Death : A Writer's Guide to Death, Murder and Forensic Medicine (Howdunit Series)	Books	4	23	23	N	Y	Very Informative	This book answered several questions I had while pounding out my first manuscript.  Like how the police and coroner go about removing a dead body.  The autopsy procedures are quite gruesome­­not for a weak stomach.  There  are hundreds of diagrams and pictures, investigation procedures, legal and  medical terms, etc.  Without it, I would have spent countless hours  researching the basics.  However, it did not cover everything.  No book  can.  For instance, I had to find out what the effects of a frontal head  trauma were and how long it would take the victim to recover, if at all.The  section on murder and suicide is interesting, particularly the part about  the crime scene and the difference between a hanging and strangulation.  The wounds around the neck are markedly different.  Like I said, the  details in this book can turn some stomachs.  But I learned a lot in one  short volume.	2000-05-14
US	53068382	R1Q3X71NWJAC7X	0898798213	430969168	The 38 Most Common Fiction Writing Mistakes	Books	5	7	10	N	Y	The Best in a Long Line of How-To's	Bickham is obviously an experienced writer, and it shows.  Every chapter in this 112-page book is short and tight, which makes it an extremely fast read.  But don't rush through it.  Read slowly and absorb everything he has  to say.  Finish your manuscript, then reread this book, using it as a  checklist for any discrepancies that will keep you from getting published.  I know I will.	2000-05-14
US	53068382	R39M46N3Y5VNPE	0805011714	267128629	Creating Unforgettable Characters: A Practical Guide to Character Development in Films, TV Series, Advertisements, Novels & Short Stories	Books	4	53	59	N	Y	A Versatile How-To	This book is geared mainly for screenwriting, but it can be useful for novelists and short story writers as well.  Linda Seger discusses character backstory, relationships with supporting characters, dialogue, and so on.  Plus, there are interviews with today's leading writers across the  spectrum.  Her narrative is clear and easy to understand, with plenty of  examples of both good and bad writing.  Even though I'm not a screenwriter,  I found this book very useful and entertaining.	2000-05-14
US	53068382	R1Z7D95AOW1XN4	0898798159	508136701	Dynamic Characters: How to Create Personalities That Keep Readers Captivated	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A Must for the Resource Library	I look forward to reading Nancy Kress's column in WD Magazine.  She knows how to get her information across in an interesting, thought-provoking way.  Her book on character development is absolutely great.  It covers all  aspects of development, including themes, situations, and different points  of view.  Her characterization chart is extensive with details.  Anyone who  uses it will know their character(s) from the inside out.  I can't wait to  see what her next book will be about.	2000-05-14
US	53068382	R1UGXES6AVA6V4	188742430X	841069554	Dark Thoughts: On Writing : Advice and Commentary from Fifty Masters of Fear and Suspense	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Great Reading	As an aspiring writer, I was especially interested in these writers' basic influences, fears, and drives.  After the first chapter, I was glued to this book, absorbing the thoughts of writers such as Stephen King, Jack  Ketchum,  Anne Rice, and many others.  This is a great gift for a horror  fan.	2000-05-14
US	53068382	R1OIQKD1RHUWCD	0898799015	186685584	The Writer's Guide to Character Traits: Includes Profiles of Human Behaviors and Personality Types (Writer's Market Library)	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Personalities Defined	This book, along with Nancy Kress's Dynamic Characters will help you build solid, original characters for your fiction.  While Kress's book talks about character development, this book lists 100 personality types of all  ages and how they effect each other.  I read the book from cover to cover  in one sitting, it was that fascinating.  Think of all the characters you  can drum up by using this book.  I highly recommend both.	2000-05-14
US	53068382	R28F9QHHXUA0X2	1884910327	612614750	Writing Dialogue	Books	5	54	55	N	N	A Valuable Resource	This book is great to have if you feel you need to improve the dialogue in your fiction.  It is written with a conversational style throughout.  Chiarella points out that real-time dialogue is not the same as fictional  dialogue.  By listening to other people talk (as well as myself), I find  that he is quite correct.  He teaches you how to push your story forward  with dialogue, when to make your character talk (or shut up), and gives  good examples of 'tennis court talking' or dialogue that goes nowhere.  This book is a very good resource for my shelf.	2000-05-14
US	53068382	R20MSKRFDBMTS4	0898795966	653508870	Police Procedural: A Writer's Guide to the Police and How They Work (Howdunit)	Books	3	4	4	N	Y	Basic Info	This book covers the basics of police departments, investigations, crimes and arrests, and the judicial system.  I would not use this as my sole source because every state has different laws, obviously.  So does every  branch of law enforcement.  It was interesting learning the layout of a  typical police station.	2000-05-14
US	53068382	R1Y4P08DKW8KAZ	1884910335	641700033	Creating Character Emotions	Books	4	21	24	N	N	Very Helpful	This book discusses every aspect of human emotion in short, concise chapters.  Ms. Hood gives bad examples of writing that is either overdone, cliche-ridden, or just plain awful.  She follows each of these examples  with a better approach.  Then she assigns exercises at the end.  The  sections on grief and forgiveness remain with me, two years after I read  this book.	2000-05-14
US	53068382	R21XHAWGC0CI3I	1884910211	887080954	The Joy of Writing Sex: A Guide for Fiction Writers	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	Writing About the Carnal Sin	I read this book cover to cover and thoroughly enjoyed it.  Ms. Benedict not only gives examples of erotic scenes and different scenarios like 'the first time' and 'adultery', but gives good pointers on how to write each of  them.  She teaches you how to get inside your characters' heads and realize  their backgrounds, beliefs, anxieties, etc. before writing The Big Scene.  It is important that you know your characters because if you don't, you'll  produce nothing but empty pornography.  Get this book if you want to write  about quality sex.	2000-05-13
US	53068382	RRI60BWSQ91GQ	006105643X	58413462	Revelations	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A Fine Anthology	The title piqued my interest.  Most of the authors listed in the contents, I had heard of or read before.  My favorites in the group are &quot;If I Should Die Before I Wake&quot;, which involves a small town dealing with  the deadly Influenza Pandemic of 1918 and &quot;Whatever&quot;, which deals  with a cultist society.  Both sent chills.  The rest of the stories  provoked a good response in me, but those two continue to stand out.  Clive  Barker's wraparounds were very good.  Be sure to add this to your  collection.	2000-05-05
US	53068382	R90OQN89KSB92	0451402375	267099768	The Mailman	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Let's Go Postal!	I wouldn't call this book a masterpiece, but it is original.  You have a normal small town with a friendly mailman.  The mailman brings only good news and good luck.  Then the bad news and the killings begin.  I thought  the ending would be a letdown or worse, thoroughly stupid.  It was very  simple, as one reviewer pointed out.  A good fast-paced read.	2000-05-05
US	53068382	RQ5ZG00LTLM6T	082173797X	675254280	The Monastery	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	A Very Scary Religion	Dean Knight and his family find themselves stranded on a stretch of Indiana highway late one night.  They make the trek to a dark building, where they are taken in by nuns.  They are under the impression that this  is a sanctuary.  Upon awakening, they discover that they cannot leave  without risking their lives.  For Neva Monastery is a fortress, heavily  guarded by bloodthirsty animals and sinister priests.  The Knights wind up  separated, each learning a facet about the monastery they would be better  off not knowing.  Will they get out alive?  Pick up a copy and find out.	2000-05-05
US	53068382	RSDYG1E7QJHBT	155611317X	211075594	Borderland	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Every Town Has its Secrets	Every town has its secrets, and Denke is no exception.  Denke has its own laws, its own traditions, the same families for a hundred years.  They live on the blood of their human prey and they will do anything to keep this a  secret from the outside world.This book is taught with suspense and chills.  A good beach book.	2000-05-05
US	53068382	RWQ16LE2S450F	044021503X	425043459	Revenant	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Haunting, Finely Written	This book is about grief and how people deal with it.  There was a mother who lives with the illusion that both her children are still alive.  A teenaged girl keeps seeing the ghost of her aborted fetus.  And, a father  who has lost his son.  All three converge together in a ghost town called  Revenant, which is hungry for human grief.There, they must face their loss  and choose to let go of their pain or join the ghostly population.  It was  a great story, the emotions and the settings so well written that I was  totally immersed until I finished the book.	2000-05-05
US	53068382	R2GDD6A6DS9B5X	0821750976	855041202	Shades Of Night	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Messages from the Grave	Lara DeSalvo wakes up one night and finds a strange woman standing at the foot of her bed.  The woman beckons for her to follow.  The incident  frightens Lara, and she passes it off as a nightmare.  When it keeps  happening, she begins to suspect that someone is breaking into her house.  By the end of the story, Lara will realize who this woman was, what she was  trying to say, and the shocking secret her husband tried to hide.  The plot  was rich and tight, with several subplots weaving into it.  However, I  thought Lara was too whiny and passive.  I would recommend it, though, to  anyone who likes ghost stories.	2000-05-05
US	53068382	R1QQMCJSB9BN3N	0843937866	477831405	The Moons of Summer	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Thoroughly Creepy	Everyone has a stereotype­­blonds are dumb, cops are doughnut-eating jerks, housewives are boring, morticians are weirdos.  Well, the mortician in this book really fits the bill.  Business is slow.  So what does he do?  He starts killing off people.  The local police cannot explain the sudden  rash of deaths, but burnt-out cop turned journalist Guy Driscoll is a  little more tenacious.  He must prove to the police that Vernon Diest is  responsible for the killings before he and his daughter are the next  victims.  Thoroughly entertaining.	2000-05-05
US	53068382	R38M5YPD6ZFV4J	0883682796	652767640	A Divine Revelation Of Hell	Books	2	5	15	N	N	A Good Piece of Religious Fiction	Mary K. Baxter has a rich imagination.  The only thing I found lacking in her book was true emotion.  What I kept reading was Bible-thumping, you-better-believe-or-this-will-be-your-fate.  I can't help my skepticism  in this case.  If she really did experience Hell, as she claims, God (or  whatever is out there) would have made her face her own sins.  For example,  I saw this guy on Oprah Winfrey several years ago.  He was a wife-beater.  His heart stopped beating (I forget why) and he went to the Other Side.  Whatever was over there showed him what it was like to be her.  He was  totally shaken, and changed his behavior.  That was the most believable  case I've heard to date, and I've researched this subject quite a bit.  Most, like this book, can be passed off as hallucinations.  In this case, I  think Ms. Baxter is trying to sell Christianity.  You can't sell God like  you can Tupperware.  God is love; Hell is what you make for yourself and  others.I bought this book to learn her &quot;true-life&quot; experiences. I  was disappointed with that.  However, I was fascinated with the different  tiers of Hell and its center, and her reasons why people were put there  after they died.  This book is good religious fiction.	2000-05-04
US	53068382	R1OW7DT9ILEYR	0761519114	86862589	Rayman 2: The Great Escape	Books	4	3	5	N	Y	A Great Help for Frustrated Gamers	I bought this guide last week after I was thoroughly stumped on how to get at some of those cages in the beginning.  The book is divided into sections, each one telling you what you have to do to get through each  world.  I found one discrepancy­­there was no cage dangling at the end of  the pier in the Sanctuary of Water and Ice.  I haven't played the whole  game through yet, but so far this guide has helped me a great deal.	2000-05-04
US	53068382	R2SS6CEZNVOU2Q	0425098087	738578083	Zodiac	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A Must-Read for any True Crime Addict	This book is a fast-paced, well-researched account of the Zodiac killer, who terrorized San Francisco in the mid to late sixtees.  Serial killers often get caught or give themselves up.  This one has remained elusive to  this day.  The accounts of the police ivestigations, tactics, and personal  reactions were well written.  I will always remember this book and its  victims.	2000-05-01
US	53068382	R1SUWDTQA2Q5KB	0809231212	111111270	Hidden Files: Law Enforcement's True Case Stories of the Unexplained and Paranormal	Books	4	22	24	N	Y	Fascinating Reading	This book comprises several different cases, each markedly different from the other.  A young mother's ghost waits by the roadside, alerting a young officer that her child is still alive inside the wreckage of her car.  A  haunted police barracks.  The mysterious disappearance and murder of a San  Jose woman.  Was her boyfriend mentally ill or does voodoo really exist?  The use of a psychic in a brutal murder case.  It was all good stuff.	2000-05-01
US	53068382	R3QDY8W7WVXUOR	0446604003	589624931	Predators	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An Original Twist	A man who hunts serial killers.  It was a thrilling concept.  The plot and characters were very good, but I agree with one reader who said he would've liked to have seen Camden get his just reward.  The Latino killer was  especially frightening.  Very tight suspense where he was concerned.	2000-05-01
US	53068382	R3W2LRA4LG899	0684841525	815796175	The Heart of a Thirsty Woman	Books	3	1	2	N	N	A Good Read	Heart of a Thirsty Woman is about Josie Tolliver's desperate search for her missing sister, Cheyenne.  I enjoyed Josie's eccentric personality, her outlook on life, and the people of Sage, Arizona.  Her father, Brewster Clay, was an intersting guy with a colorful life.  I found Clarence  impossibly dull and Cheyenne less than desirable.  Overall, I liked the  book, despite Josie's childishness.  But I think I would buy it when it  came out in paperback.	2000-02-28
US	53068382	R26TKU97I7R0E2	0345384369	591020220	Intensity	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Koontz at his finest	The plot of this book matches its title­­intense.  I rooted for Chyna Shephard, who was plagued by memories of her alcoholic mother and her overwhelming fear of failure.  I admired her courage in dealing with the  loss of her best friend and in facing Edgler Vess.  I won't give away his  profession, but it might not come as a great surprise to some of you out  there.  The plot is very tight, the description of Vess and his house  thoroughly creepy.  Give it a shot.	2000-02-14
US	53068382	RA39RKRVUT37V	0380759500	292368144	Firefly	Books	5	7	21	N	N	Not a horror story, but a great read	I read this book about eight years ago when it first came out in paperback.  I've read a few of Anthony's Xanth novels and enjoyed his imagination.  This was no exception.  Like another reviewer pointed out,  this novel dealt with sexual abuse and the impact on small children.  The  scene where the little girl sits on the protagonist's lap still haunts me  to this day.  If you can find this book, pick it up and read it.	2000-02-14
US	53068382	R1FPSNY75QGEVH	0312180985	630884406	Fog Heart	Books	3	6	7	N	N	A Strange Ghost Story	The first two chapters compelled me to read on, but then the pace slowed until I had to push myself to read through it.  Oona and Roz were the most interesting characters, if not a little weird.  I thought Jan's story was  heartbreaking, but the rest of the characters I found I didn't care much  about.  They were too self-absorbed.  Mr. Tessier had a great start,  fizzled at the middle, then came back with a fast-paced ending.  This book  requires patience and an open mind.	2000-02-14
US	53068382	R4X5FDHCGDUEZ	0425097609	567976695	Whispers	Books	5	4	4	N	N	One of his best	This was the first book I read by Dean Koontz and my introduction to horror and suspense.  I loved it when I was fourteen and enjoyed it as an adult. For those of you who haven't read this yet, it is a serial killer  novel with a twist­­a very clever and dark one.  The only complaint I have  with this story is the police department.  You have the typical brute who  believes the protagonist, Hillary Thomas, is making her story up to get  their attention.  And, the cop who plays Romeo and solves her case.  The  descriptions are brutal sometimes, depicting the extreme side of alcohol  and drug abuse quite well.	2000-02-14
US	53068382	R2032U9HNVQF15	0374157065	503232720	Flu: The Story of the Great Influenza Pandemic of 1918 and the Search for the Virus That Caused It	Books	4	0	1	N	Y	Very Informative	Kolata's book was very easy to read, depicting the phsyical, social, and political ramifications of the killer flu very well.  This book doesn't deal with just this one particular virus.  It goes on to explain, in  detail, flu epidemics which followed the 1918 pandemic and the threat of a  new killer strain.  I thought the expeditions to retrieve lung tissue  samples in Alaska and Norway were particularly interesting as well as  frightening.  Suppose those men had accidentally set the virus loose again  by digging up those corpses?	2000-01-20
US	53068382	R2ZVZR4B77WEOW	0812572122	291885214	A Stir of Echoes	Books	5	7	10	N	Y	A Gripping Story	This is another novel written in its time, although Mr. Matheson does better with the characters in this story.  I liked all of them, even the seedy ones like Frank and Elsie.  After he is hypnotized by his brother-in-law, Tom Holland begins to experience all sorts of stranger  -than-fiction phenomena.  Imagine walking into your living room and finding  the ghost of the former tenant?  Imagine returning a pie pan to your next  door neighbor and seeing into her lurid, sex-crazed mind.  Imagine looking  into the heart of your best friend and seeing the worst possible human  being you can imagine.  There are other creepy things, but I won't spoil  them by listing them.  This is a very good book.  Buy a copy if you are a  fan of the paranormal.	2000-01-11
US	53068382	R249CPKK21PL73	0684853507	85988614	Bag of Bones	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Hauntingly Sad	This story is about a man who is suffering from writer's block and an agonizing loss over the sudden death of his young wife.  He moves to his summer cottage to tackle both issues and finds himself embroiled in the  mystery, not only of his wife's death, but of the community and a young  mother, fighting to keep custody of her three year-old daughter.  As  always, his depictions and descriptions of the places and events are  exceptional.  The ending is both satisfying and horrifying.  Read it and  judge for yourself.	2000-01-11
US	53068382	R2AD18SLEILG6N	0312868855	396467465	Hell House	Books	4	1	3	N	N	A Good Classic to Keep on Your Bookshelf	I didn't care for the characters too much, except for the psychic who lived to tell about his experience.  The rest I thought were cliches of the 50s.  The story and its premise, I thought, were great and the way he  describes the horrific scenes is brilliant.  The ending was surprising in  its simplicity.	2000-01-11
US	53068382	R2CPT5N4NNCD9U	0451160916	966329377	The Shining (Signet)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Movies vs. Books	I saw the original movie first, then read the book about ten years later.  The movie was terrifying.  The book itself merely suspenseful.  I was able to empathize with every character, especially Danny, who was caught up in  both his parents' struggles.  The subject of alcoholism was portrayed very  well.  It would've been interesting to learn, in detail, the background of  that hotel and its spirits.  But the book would've been way too long.  It  was cool who 'Tony' turned out to be.  Like I said above, this book is  suspenseful, but not one I would deem terrifying.  I think the movie outdid  it.	2000-01-11
US	53068382	RVMOBF4TTXX8E	0609605224	954005641	A Boy in Winter	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Poignant Thriller	A friend got me interested in this book.  Otherwise, I would never have noticed it.  After reading the first page in the bookstore, I bought it, took it home, and kept reading.  Like the other reviewers, I enjoyed the  relationship between mother and son before, during, and after the accident.  I was especially moved by Nancy Harvath and Frank Nova's situation as  former lovers, split up by a stupid accident which never should have  happened.I empathized with Danny, even though I thought there was some part  of him that wanted to kill Edie.  The fishing trip was very telling, at  least to me.  The guilt and remorse over what happened told me that he was  a human being and I found myself empathisizing with him the most.  Every  viewpoint was strong.  But I found myself somewhat disappointed by the  events leading up to the ending.  There should've been more anger on  Frank's part against Danny.  Some part of him should've wanted to hurt  Danny.  If that was mentioned, then I missed it.  But the gist I got was,  Frank went nuts and kidnapped the kid, holed him up inside his brother's  house without doing anything to him, only to give the boy up without a  fight.  Maybe he was too afraid of himself and the situation he was in or  perhaps the author recoils from the idea of adults hurting children.  I  can't blame her.Anyway, I really liked the story and would recommend it to  anyone.	2000-01-04
US	53068382	R3RHDODA0Y4Q4J	0446672211	17564972	Where the Heart Is	Books	5	14	15	N	N	A great weekend read	I started reading this book on Thanksgiving Day and finished it by the following Monday.  The book is engaging with its eccentric characters, its lighthearted way of dealing with the pitfalls and tragedies of life, and  its overall message of love and redemption.  I'll be looking for more  Billie Letts books in the future.	1999-12-09
US	53068382	R3FMIHK2XJDY6A	0375702733	414359390	Reservation Road (Vintage Contemporaries)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A great, fast-paced read	When I first picked up the book, I almost put it down because of the subject matter.  But it managed to stay with me until I reached the checkout counter and I didn't regret my decision when I began reading it.  Mr. Schwartz captured the essence of every character: the mother's intense  grief, the father's rage and despair, the lawyer's guilt and shame over the  accident the relationship with his family.  He captured all that very well.  I'd recommend this book to anyone.	1999-12-09
US	53068382	R229ITGIH84XFR	0963339745	713197310	The Girl Next Door	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Absolutely Terrifying	I received this book on Thursday and finished it on Saturday, it was that good.  The words and the imagery flowed so smoothly that it almost seemed like watching a movie.  I agree with the other reviewers, the 50s  background was only a backdrop.  What happened to the characters in this  novel was too real at times.  And what's so scary is that this can and has  happened to children all over the world.I myself am a victim of child abuse  and identified strongly with every character except Ruth.  David and Meg,  in particular.  Its more traumatizing to see it happening to others than it  is to experience it yourself.  I identified with the fear, rage, guilt,  defiance, and brainwashing that went on in this story.  In many ways, it  was like reliving the whole ordeal except on a more vivid, horrifying  level.  I never experienced anything remotely like what Meg had  experienced.  I was glad when David pushed her down the  stairs and satisfied by Officer Jennings's indifference to the murder.  There are all sorts of monsters in this world.  Some milder than others.  But they all do the same thing,  destroy the lives of innocent children.  There are no excuses.  I will not  accept excuses.  But I take a small comfort in knowing that I am not alone  in my experiences and this story is another example of how my childhood  could have been a lot worse.  I survived.  Thank you, Mr. Ketchum for this  book and to those of you who are suffering out there, don't give up the  fight.	1999-05-16
US	53068382	R2PXKB2IZ6EZXA	0451169530	825352881	The Stand: Expanded Edition: For the First Time Complete and Uncut (Signet)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	This book is excellent.  The finest book King ever wrote.	When the movie came out in May of 1994, I loved it.  Since books do more justice to a story, I decided to read my copy that had been sitting on my bookshelf for three years.  I was not disappointed.  Each of the characters grabbed ahold of you and immersed you into their thoughts and experiences.  Mr. King did such a good job describing each character that I felt I knew each and every one of them.  I even liked the evil characters, including the goverment officials.  The story was very original in itself.  I have never read another story that even came close to competing with it as far as originality, plot, character involvement, etc.  I am now reading the book for the third time, savoring each page like a fine wine.  The story is about a lethal government experiment called Captain Trips, or the superflu that was accidently set loose.  The flu swept through the world, killing 99% of the population.  The five protagonists, Glen, Stu, Larry, Ralph, and Frannie have the same dream about an old woman that was supposed to be a &quot;magnet&quot; of good.  They also had dreams of the Walking Dude, who was the &quot;magnet&quot; for evil. The other characters depicted in this book were drawn to either magnet.  Everyone set out on a trek to find their leader, and the battle of good versus evil commenced from there.  My particular favorite was when the community of Boulder got together to rebuild their community.  However, I felt disappointed when after Harold and Nadine's betrayal, they went for each other's throats.  I wasn't disappointed in the story, but of human nature.  The ending was very good.  I won't spoil it for future readers, but will hint that it was bittersweet.  Mr. King's portrayal of human nature is chilling.  This book is a mustread	1997-03-22
