US	53060078	R2UFOSJ50CS652	0789726912	855600515	Poor Leo's 2002 Computer Almanac	Books	4	17	21	N	N	Great tips for all levels, but a format for beginners...	Now don't get me wrong--I enjoy Leo Laporte, and love \\"The Screen Savers,\\" his nightly TechTV show. His shameless yet forgivable shilling of this book on his show made me rush out and buy it. Unfortunately, I probably should have glanced through it first.<br />There's a wealth of interesting tips in here (from beginning to geek), but as with all tips, there's only a handful I'll use (granted, those were pretty good). The \\"day by day\\" almanac format gives you a hint, tip, troubleshooting technique, problem-solver, or fun fact for every day of the year. There's tips for both PC and Mac users (I'm a Mac user), but there isn't one for *each* format every day, so some days I'm left high-and-dry...that's no matter, I can skim ahead; I'm not going to wait *all year* to read the book. But I do have the feeling that I've paid for a whole book and only getting half the use out of it.<br />Less useful are the \\"This day in computer history\\" tidbits that pad out each day. Interesting, maybe, but not what I buy a computer help book for. These smacked of padding the book and would have been more fun in a different format (\\"Leo's Page-a-Day Computer History Calendar\\"?).<br />My biggest complaint is that the tips are arranged rather randomly. Although some build on previous tips, there's no sense of continuity. Although the book is well-indexed to find subjects, this is *not* a general help manual--such a book would have been divided into different sections on specific topics. Leo *might* have overcome this by indicating \\"theme weeks\\"--this whole week, PC users will learn about such-and-such, Mac users will learn another things...etc.<br />Okay, to be fair: this is a fun to read book, and Leo's friendly and matter-of-fact style is most welcome in today's tech book world. I'm definitely on board for his next book, but I'm going to be grading him for format next time. This one gets five stars for Leo's writing style and range, but three stars for the hard-for-practical-use and seemingly random day-by-day format of the book: I'll average those out to four stars.ly random day-by-day format of the book: I'll average those out to four stars.	2002-01-31
US	53060078	R10XFBE1BPPMHC	043932162X	69383288	Harry Potter Schoolbooks: Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them / Quidditch Through the Ages	Books	5	344	363	N	N	Get your Harry fix and support a great cause!	Although the wait for 2002 and &quot;Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix&quot; is going to be a hard one for a lot of people, these two brief but fun books should fill the gap admirably as well as supporting a great cause. Released for the first time (well, to the general Muggle public), here's two of Harry Potter's schoolbooks, &quot;Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them&quot; and &quot;Quidditch Through the Ages.&quot;<br />Slim and quick reads, these books nevertheless are a great deal of fun. &quot;Quidditch&quot; provides us with a brief evolution and history of everyone's favorite broomstick-riding sport, with rules of play, focuses on top world teams, and the revelation that Americans don't really play Quidditch on the world-class level, preferring an American variation called &quot;Quodpot.&quot; &quot;Fantastic Beasts&quot; is a brisk and humorous guide to mythical, er, totally real monsters and magical creatures from the Acromantula (giant spider) to the Yeti. This book is Harry Potter's own personal copy, and is enlivened with Harry and Ron's writing and jokes in the margins of the book. Both books feature a wonderfully dry-humored introduction by Albus Dumbledore. Both books are written with a friendly and light sense of humor that's delightful to read and makes great background for the serious Harry Potter fan. Quidditch team Chudley Cannons' motto is said to have been changed from &quot;We shall conquer&quot; to &quot;Let's all just keep our fingers crossed and hope for the best.&quot;<br />The most important reason to buy these books, however, is to support Comic Relief UK, the British relief organization set up to help children in the disadvantaged countries of the world. Although we can't save the world from manticores or score the winning goal in a Quidditch World Cup match, we can still be heroes by supporting this great cause.	2001-11-24
US	53060078	R3KJ5SBUWZWENI	0609607820	232816733	The Gallery of Regrettable Food	Books	5	66	73	N	N	Mystery Science Cookbooks 1950!	This is not a cookbook. If you cook from this book you should be shot, for indeed, that would be more merciful than eating the meal. But the truth is, thousands of moms in the 1950s and 1960s *did* cook from the cookbooks that James Lileks so hilariously skewers in &quot;The Gallery of Regrettable Food,&quot; and if you ever remember your mom proudly plopping down a new recipe that had dad and the kids staring at each other in disbelief, then this book is for you.<br />&quot;The Gallery of Regrettable Food&quot; does for the cookbooks of yesteryear what the robots from &quot;Mystery Science Theater 3000&quot; do for bad movies. And hoo boy, is this *bad* food...bloated with lard, tasteless, shiny, and topped with some kind of sauce that you swear must be made from radioactive by-products. These &quot;classic&quot; dishes are shown in photos from the original cookbook, photographed in their various original shades of gray, mauve, and pink--just looking at this requires a strong stomach, and Lileks is to be commended for having the nerve to page through them all.<br />But most of all, Lileks is hilarious--his caustic commentary pulls no punches (&quot;This is a meal. It is also a scene from &quot;The Andromeda Strain.&quot; &quot;Satan himself could not invent so fiendish a dish.&quot;) and he spares no sarcasm in his horror and contempt for the way America was &quot;supposed&quot; to cook. (&quot;This is some of the most tortured, attenuated garnish a steak has ever had; it looks as if El Greco had attempted to paint the mask from the &quot;Scream&quot; movies.&quot;) and most of all, the bizarre and disturbing oddities of &quot;classic&quot; cookbooks (Why the Sam Hill is that cartoon chicken FRYING UP A CHICKEN LEG?!?!). The hilariously dated and macabre cookbooks include such &quot;classics&quot; as &quot;You're Really Cooking When You're Cooking With Seven-Up!,&quot; &quot;Cooking for a Man: Tested Recipes to Please Him!,&quot; and the infamous &quot;How Famous Chefs Use Campfire Marshmallows.&quot; (Answer: to slap on any kind of dish from toast to (urp!) peppers.)<br />Buy it for your mom for Christmas...and be prepared to have her take down her hilarious collection of bad 1960s cookbooks to show around. Just, for God's sake, don't ever, *ever* let her cook from them.hefs Use Campfire Marshmallows.&quot; (Answer: to slap on any kind of dish from toast to (urp!) peppers.)<br />Buy it for your mom for Christmas...and be prepared to have her take down her hilarious collection of bad 1960s cookbooks to show around. Just, for God's sake, don't ever, *ever* let her cook from them.	2001-10-29
US	53060078	R1OGRMN9IOBW9D	1859986501	279174072	Winnie-the-Pooh	Books	5	15	17	N	N	The finest Pooh audiocassettes ever recorded!	[This is a review of the Hodder/Headline audiocassette version] I learned to read by listening (again and again and again and again) to a pair of well-loved and well-worn LPs of the Pooh stories read by Maurice Evans. I always considered them the finest Pooh audiobooks ever recorded. Up until now! Now there's this wonderful series of fully-dramatized adventures of Pooh featuring a brilliant cast of wonderful British actors: Stephen Fry (&quot;Jeeves and Wooster&quot;) as Pooh, Geoffrey Palmer (&quot;The Madness of King George&quot;) as Eeyore, Judy Dench (&quot;Shakespeare in Love&quot;) as Kanga...and best of all, the *incomparable* Jane Horrocks (&quot;Little Voice&quot; and Bubble from &quot;AbFab&quot;) as a squeaky, alarmed, and altogether adorable Piglet. You don't have to be a kid to appreciate these fine recordings (and there are plenty of adult Pooh fans out there who will *love* these versions). Accept no substitutes: this is simply the finest Pooh audio series yet created, beating by a *far* distance the Alan Bennett and (ugh!) Charles Kuralt versions.	2001-10-24
US	53060078	RT9PR25Z3I41N	0007114478	353230073	Mind the Gap	Books	5	2	2	N	N	More fun than an all-day, six-zone Travelcard!	Here's the most frequently asked question whenever I show people my London vacation photos: &quot;Why are there so many pictures of the London Underground?&quot; My obsession with all things Tube leads to roll after roll of photos of London tube trains, Underground stations, interesting signs, and innovative architecture. But this gorgeous and quirky collection of photographs from around the Underground by Simon James puts my amateur snapshots to shame.<br />Quite possibly the most quirky and yet stunning book I've collected on the Underground (and yes, I have quite a few), &quot;Mind the Gap&quot; is a collection of photos of stations, trains, signage, architecture, and the environs of London Underground railways. A lightly humorous introduction by Monty Python's Michael Palin (himself a train buff and world traveler) sets the tone, and we're off riding the various lines and visiting the numerous stations, from cult favorite Mornington Crescent to abandoned Aldwych, and out into the countryside to the lyrically-named &quot;Metroland&quot;--wooded suburbs accessible at the far reaches of the Tube.<br />This is a gorgeous book, beautifully designed from the cover (which must be seen to be appreciated: spot-lamination spells out the names of Underground stations in ghostly letters) to the clever author bio at the back (instead of the usual posed author photo, James shows us his Underground Photocard). The color reproduction is bright and vivid and James is a master at capturing subtle effects like a platform shiny with rain or the intricacies of an elaborately patterned train seat. For all its beauty, it's also eerily spooky (very few people appear in the photographs; when they do they are blurred into indistinction by James's long exposure time) and sometimes surreal and apocalyptic (abandoned stations that look like ancient caves, a wry hand-lettered &quot;The last train has gone&quot; notice). James's affection and patience for the Underground is evident in every design aspect of the book: the brief histories of each train line are printed in their identifying colors as used on the Tube map, and the text is set in Johnston Underground: that familiar, legible typeface used as the standard on the Underground.<br />To sum up, this is an excellent in-depth look at a London many take for granted but which is worthy of cultural and architectural study on its own. If you're a Anglophile, or more important, a London Transport buff, don't miss this one--unlike an Underground train, a photo collection this great doesn't come along every three to five minutes.design aspect of the book: the brief histories of each train line are printed in their identifying colors as used on the Tube map, and the text is set in Johnston Underground: that familiar, legible typeface used as the standard on the Underground.<br />To sum up, this is an excellent in-depth look at a London many take for granted but which is worthy of cultural and architectural study on its own. If you're a Anglophile, or more important, a London Transport buff, don't miss this one--unlike an Underground train, a photo collection this great doesn't come along every three to five minutes.	2001-10-24
US	53060078	RYAWZKPUXS14E	1885941358	389729379	The Tragedy of Errors & Others: With Essays and Tributes to Recognize Ellery Queen's Seventieth Anniversary	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A must for all Queen fanatics!	There's been far too little written about Ellery Queen--truly the master of American detective fiction. This book from Crippen and Landru is a great step forward. In addition to the full outline of Dannay and Lee's final but never finished novel &quot;The Tragedy of Errors,&quot; there's also a selection of EQ short stories and best yet, a collection of appreciations and essays by collaborators and contempraries to EQ, covering the early period of the pince-nez Ellery to the later ghost-written (but plotted and edited by Dannay and Lee) psychological and religious thrillers--and even the Ellery of radio and the comics!<br />EQ's been sadly out of fashion in the mystery field over the last 20 years--following a resurgence in 1976 with the NBC-TV series, various publishers have reissued several books but let them go out of print quickly; the essays in &quot;The Tragedy of Errors&quot; remind me how much I wish all the EQs were still available for today's new mystery readers. This is the best book I've yet seen on the *history* of Ellery, the cousins who created him, and the groundbreaking &quot;Ellery Queen's Mystery Magazine.&quot;<br />The very best compliment I can give this book? It makes me *need* to go back and re-read all my EQ favorites. Now, if I can only figure out those cryptic dying clues...	2001-10-23
US	53060078	R2VOVM5F9MBSDN	0312280106	545414963	Playing the Moldovans at Tennis	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Round Moldova with a Tennis Racket	British comedian Tony Hawks doesn't seem to be able to have a conversation without getting into some fantastic bet. His last book recounted his journey, on a dare, to travel &quot;Round Ireland With a Fridge.&quot; One of my favorite travel memoirs of the past few years, &quot;Round Ireland&quot; combined outrageous humor with an affectionate portrait of Ireland and her people. His newest, &quot;Playing the Moldovans at Tennis,&quot;  follows the same path: challenged by his friend Arthur that he can't beat the entire Moldovan national football team at tennis, Tony immediately jets to the tiny Balkan country and is met with frustration at every turn to even get a chance to set foot on a tennis court. Since the loser of the bet strips naked and sings the Moldovan national anthem in public, he doesn't dare lose, but the incredibly different customs of Moldova are against him from Day One. Red tape, diplomacy, and the language barrier rise up to block his success, but for every pushy, arrogant football team manager he comes across there's a dozen friendly, supportive, and helpful journalists, fixers, and everyday folks who are intrigued by and helpful with Tony's seemingly mad quest.<br />While not as fascinating as &quot;Round Ireland,&quot; (there's less of travel interest here to the casual reader), Hawks brings his usual humor punctuated by moments of hilarious despair, and the ending even has a twist that couldn't have been written more cleverly if it had been in a Hollywood movie. In the end it's a gentle and affectionate portrait of the Moldovans, a people and country I knew nothing about before this book. More important, Tony himself sums up the real result of his offbeat quest as *not* the chance to avoid singing starkers outside a London pub, but inspiring a young Moldovan man who, pessimistic at the first, comes to realize a silly impossible pursuit is just as worth doing as a dull everyday task.	2001-06-07
US	53060078	R9Y4ZJ1U3H7AY	037581115X	181818792	Gaspard on Vacation (Misadventures of Gaspard and Lisa)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Paddle through Venice with cute dog Gaspard	I'm a big fan of children's picture books. Yes, I'm nearly 40! But the best picture books transcend age and can be as much a delight for adults as for kids. &quot;Gaspard on Vacation&quot; and &quot;Lisa's Airplane Trip,&quot; the first two in the Misadventures of Gaspard and Lisa series, are among the best of the year so far-- colorful and delightful stories of two travelling dogs, with whimsical and hilarious painted illustrations.<br />Fluffy black dog Gaspard is on holiday in Venice with his entire family, and museum after museum is getting a bit too boring for adventurous Gaspard. He runs off to explore Venice's canals in a little red kayak, leading to a mishap that shows him maybe boring museums aren't so bad after all. All's well that ends well as the entire family is re-united for dinner of &quot;the best spaghetti in the world.&quot; George Hallensleben's painted illustrations are brilliant, vibrant, and detailed, and Ann Gutman's simple but effective story is a brisk and fun read. Afficionados of Venice will even spot local landmarks in the background as Gaspard paddles along!<br />I highly recommend both this and &quot;Lisa's Airplane Trip,&quot; and I'm eagerly awaiting the other Lisa and Gaspard books. Do yourself a favor as much has your kids and pick these up--they'll quickly become favorites for both young and old.	2001-03-13
US	53060078	RKSY2RTJQWAAL	0671011901	597788253	Warhawk: Battlestar Galactica	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Richard Hatch admirably carries the Galactica torch	One of my favorite quotes from TV's &quot;Mystery Science Theater 3000&quot; (spoken during a 1970s TV-movie): &quot;At least I'll have 'Battlestar Galactica'...that'll *never* be cancelled!&quot; Ulp. Well, at least Galactica lives on in this series of novels by show star Richard Hatch--no, not the fat naked guy from &quot;Survivor,&quot; but the one and only Captain Apollo from the cult 1970s TV series.<br />Hatch drops us into a familiar world several years (or yahren) later: Commander Adama has passed on, Apollo has assumed command of the ragtag human fleet, Starbuck's a Captain, and the son of Apollo (the former Boxey, now called &quot;Troy&quot; in the only nod to the abortive and generally ignored &quot;Galactica 1980&quot; sequel) and the daughter of Starbuck are now top Colonial Warriors. But this isn't &quot;Battlestar Galactica: The Next Generation&quot;--most of the familiar TV cast are back, including popular TV series guest-stars like Commander Cain.<br />I enjoyed &quot;Warhawk&quot; a good deal more than most &quot;Star Wars&quot; novels because this provided what &quot;Star Wars&quot; books don't seem to give me anymore: the humor and adventure of the original. The dialogue is crisp and authoritative, each character sounding like his/her TV original, and the climatic Viper spacefight is as exciting as a fourth-act special-effects fest from the TV series. It's obvious the book is a sequel to Hatch's earlier book (which I haven't read): Apollo now has telepathic powers and the fate of human traitor Baltar picks up a storyline I was unfamiliar with, but Hatch does a good job of bringing readers up to speed on what has gone before that you don't need to have read &quot;Armageddon&quot;--but you'll want to.<br />Last I heard, the fate of bringing &quot;Galactica&quot; back to TV or movie screens was held up in a legal battle between series creator Glen A. Larson and Richard Hatch. While I'm the first to admit that surely Larson has the right to handle his creation as he sees fit, everyone would benefit from a truce and partnership between Larson and Hatch--Hatch shows here that his affection and care for the Galactica legacy benefits and entertains everyone--especially the fans.is creation as he sees fit, everyone would benefit from a truce and partnership between Larson and Hatch--Hatch shows here that his affection and care for the Galactica legacy benefits and entertains everyone--especially the fans.	2001-03-13
US	53060078	R2PBL0E5L8V7QF	0375811141	686029225	Lisa's Airplane Trip	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Fly along with Lisa--but watch out for that orange juice!	I'm a big fan of children's picture books. Yes, I'm nearly 40! But the best picture books transcend age and can be as much a delight for adults as for kids. &quot;Lisa's Airplane Trip&quot; and &quot;Gaspard on Vacation&quot;, the first two in the Misadventures of Gaspard and Lisa series, are among the best of the year so far-- colorful and delightful stories of two travelling dogs, with whimsical and hilarious painted illustrations.<br />&quot;Lisa's Airplane Trip&quot; is my favorite of the two: fluffy white dog Lisa is taking her first airplane trip. In bright, colorful paintings and uncomplicated text we fly along with her from Paris to New York--annoying the woman sitting next to her, struggling to be tall enough to watch the in-flight movie, eating the airline meal (a wonderfully detailed page showing absolutely everything you get for lunch) and a very cute sequence where Lisa has a mishap with a glass of orange juice (and gets a bath in the sink from a very kind flight attendant). It's incredible cute without being saccharine, and George Hallensleben's detailed and vivid illustrations are colorful and delightful. Lisa is expressive and fun to look at and the humor is gentle and reassuring.<br />Any kid who's taken an airplane trip will identify with Lisa's in-flight predicaments. &quot;Lisa's Airplane Trip&quot; makes a great quick bedtime read--but you'll love Lisa as much as your kids!	2001-03-13
US	53060078	R15KET8RC9S9V9	0439284031	69383288	Harry Potter Schoolbooks: Quidditch Through the Ages and Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them	Books	5	57	60	N	N	Get your Harry fix and support a great cause!	Although the wait for 2002 and &quot;Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix&quot; is going to be a hard one for a lot of people, these two brief but fun books should fill the gap admirably as well as supporting a great cause. Released for the first time (well, to the general Muggle public), here's two of Harry Potter's schoolbooks, &quot;Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them&quot; and &quot;Quidditch Through the Ages.&quot;<br />Slim and quick reads, these books nevertheless are a great deal of fun. &quot;Quidditch&quot; provides us with a brief evolution and history of everyone's favorite broomstick-riding sport, with rules of play, focuses on top world teams, and the revelation that Americans don't really play Quidditch on the world-class level, preferring an American variation called &quot;Quodpot.&quot; &quot;Fantastic Beasts&quot; is a brisk and humorous guide to mythical, er, totally real monsters and magical creatures from the Acromantula (giant spider) to the Yeti. This book is Harry Potter's own personal copy, and is enlivened with Harry and Ron's writing and jokes in the margins of the book. Both books feature a wonderfully dry-humored introduction by Albus Dumbledore. Both books are written with a friendly and light sense of humor that's delightful to read and makes great background for the serious Harry Potter fan. Quidditch team Chudley Cannons' motto is said to have been changed from &quot;We shall conquer&quot; to &quot;Let's all just keep our fingers crossed and hope for the best.&quot;<br />The most important reason to buy these books, however, is to support Comic Relief UK, the British relief organization set up to help children in the disadvantaged countries of the world. Although we can't save the world from manticores or score the winning goal in a Quidditch World Cup match, we can still be heroes by supporting this great cause.	2001-03-13
US	53060078	R2SJP3ROUQEBDR	0752818643	463517105	The Little Book of Mornington Crescent	Books	5	28	28	N	N	The only Mornington Crescent Guide you'll ever need! Or get.	Well, I'll start out the game with a bold, unorthodox move: Lancaster Gate. Your turn, and please remember that choosing alternate Sunday-only stations are not valid in the Amazon.com championship versions of the game, that Aldwych Station, though closed, is still a valid choice when backed into one of Mr. Garden's patented cross-hatch ploys, and of course I shouldn't need to remind you that choosing Jubilee Line Extension stations is still regarded as hopelessly amateur; should you choose to counter with Canada Water, you will be met with derisive giggles. Your move.<br />If the above doesn't mean anything to you, you're not a fan of the bewildering game of Mornington Crescent, and this is not the book for you. Go pick up a Bill Oddie birding book instead. On the other hand, if the above inspired you to snap out &quot;Gants Hill&quot; with authority and a smirk, then sprint, don't crawl, to pick up the only *authorized* Mornington Crescent companion (all others are mere shadows).<br />Seriously (and at the risk of ruining the joke) this is a humor book based on the popular BBC radio quiz show &quot;I'm Sorry, I Haven't A Clue.&quot; British quiz shows like these, far from being a challenge to ordinary citizens to answer tough trivia, are more frequently a showcase for celebrities to show off their comic skills (think &quot;Whose Line is It Anyway&quot; rather than &quot;Who Want to Be a Millionaire&quot;). By far the most cheer-eliciting segment of ISIHAC is &quot;Mornington Crescent,&quot; a round-table game in which the panelists must name London Underground stations, and the first to name Mornington Crescent is the winner. Sound simple? Well, it would be...if there were truly any rules other than to be funny while doing so...<br />If you're a fan of BBC radio comedy and you're in on the joke, this book is a must have, with Mornington Crescent history, Q&amp;As, recipes, profiles, short stories (Charles Dickens versus Lewis Carroll in an especially ruthless and deadly game of MC)--everything a serious player of the game needs to know.<br />Except the rules.<br />Well, you can't expect them to give away *all* the answers, can you?eadly game of MC)--everything a serious player of the game needs to know.<br />Except the rules.<br />Well, you can't expect them to give away *all* the answers, can you?	2000-12-15
US	53060078	R2K3HVHPH0YPRU	0785107657	129233313	Avengers: Nights of Wundagore (Backpack Marvels)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Avengers Assembled!	Give credit to Marvel Comics for their aggressive and wide-ranging program of re-printing classic comics: in formats for all ages and budgets, Marvel has released reissues of their groundbreaking comic books in hardcover (Marvel Masterworks), softcover (graphic novel reprints and the b/w &quot;Essentials&quot; collections), comic book format, and now the new &quot;Backpack Marvels&quot;: digest-sized collection of 7-9 comic book classics. This book reprints Avengers 181-189, with scripting by David Michelinie and artwork by John Byrne: one of the powerhouse story/art combinations of the late 1970s.<br />While the strongest Avengers stories of this period were still to come with the artwork of George Perez, there are still classics in this book: the much-debated &quot;Wundagore&quot; serial that sought to solve the family mysteries of Avengers Quicksilver and the Scarlet Witch (although an even more startling twist to their story would come much later than the stories in this book), and one of my all-time favorite Avengers tales is included: government agent Henry Gyrich (a long-standing Marvel Universe character, not so much a villain as a pain-in-the-rear) levies membership restrictions and affirmative action on the team. It's the care with the characters Michelinie takes that makes his run on Avengers stand out: the friendship of Wonder Man and the Beast, the anger of loose cannon Hawkeye, the romance of Wasp and Yellowjacket: it's all classic Avengers characterization and moments. Byrne's artwork is energetic and crisp, even at the slightly smaller size and in black and white format, it's gorgeous to look at as well as clean, dynamic storytelling.<br />Only one complaint, the same I had with the X-Men Backpack Marvels--I would have liked to see a &quot;story so far&quot; introduction: a summary of what had gone on before and a brief introduction to the Avengers would have been useful to the first-time reader. Even most long-time fans might hesitate to identify all the characters on page seven!<br />That said, I'm hoping there *are* plenty of new readers for this book and this format: one of Marvel's challenges in the 21st century is to find a wider and new audience for comic books as a whole. This attractive package, affordable price, and classic collection of stories may be what the industry needs to sell comics outside the traditional comic book store market. I can easily see this attractive little volume being sold at newsstands, airport gift shops, bookstores, and more.l the characters on page seven!<br />That said, I'm hoping there *are* plenty of new readers for this book and this format: one of Marvel's challenges in the 21st century is to find a wider and new audience for comic books as a whole. This attractive package, affordable price, and classic collection of stories may be what the industry needs to sell comics outside the traditional comic book store market. I can easily see this attractive little volume being sold at newsstands, airport gift shops, bookstores, and more.	2000-12-11
US	53060078	R28WN2RHBKTIT9	1860920047	592771966	Goodbye to All Cats: With Envelope (Travelman Short Story)	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Classic story in a clever format!	I'm a major fan and collector of P.G. Wodehouse (in my view the best writer of English prose of the 20th century). This clever edition of one of his funny cat stories is an excellent and unique addition to my PGW collection, and it's also a wonderful little literary gift and introduction to Wodehouse for the cat-fancier or fan of light humorous writing.<br />I first discovered the Travelman series of book pamphlets in a newsstand in London's Paddington Station...the size and shape of a paper road map, these are an ideal and absolutely unique format for reading while you commute on the subway, bus, or train. They're much easier to use (and more entertaining!) than any road map I've ever handled, however...they unfold easily bit-by-bit, never awkwardly, and each contains a classic short story.<br />The Travelman format is ideal for a half-hour commute and the unique concept will have your fellow travelers asking what you're reading and where you got that interesting looking mini-book. There are many more in the series available in the US, including stories by Bram Stoker, Arthur Conan Doyle, Ruth Rendell, Ian Fleming, Dorothy Parker, Roald Dahl and Oscar Wilde. The format is fun, and they make great gifts.	2000-11-30
US	53060078	R2O6YI8NHLW6KC	0380978954	476581890	The Truth: A Novel of Discworld	Books	5	26	29	N	N	&quot;The Truth will make ye fret!&quot;	&quot;The Truth,&quot; the twenty-fifth Diskworld novel by Terry Pratchett, is a great way to celebrate a silver anniversary! Pratchett fans already know that his different novels cover several paths: certain ones follow the witches of Lancre, others Death, the Wizards of Unseen University, or the Watch of Ankh-Morpork. This is an Ankh-Morpork novel, and much in the style of &quot;Moving Pictures,&quot; &quot;Soul Music,&quot; or &quot;Maskerade,&quot; a familiar cultural aspect of our own world becomes public and popular in Diskworld--creating grief and strife for everyone and a lot of fun for the reader!<br />The usual concoction of magical, political, and sociological troubles are afoot in Ankh-Morpork when dwarves bring movable type to the city and Diskworld's first newspaper, &quot;The Ankh-Morpork Times,&quot; (motto: The Truth Shall Make Ye Fret&quot;) hits the streets. Many of Pratchett's well-loved and familiar characters are here: Sam Vimes, Carrot and Angua, talking dog Gaspode, the irrepressible C.M.O.T. Dibbler--but the spotlight's fully upon William de Worde, determined to make the written &quot;Truth&quot; public. There's a solid mix of old and new characters: a vampire photographer who crumbles into ash each time his flash goes off, two ruthless assassins vaguely reminiscent of a pair from a recent pop-culture movie (down to a discussion of what they call a sausage-in-a-bun in Quirm: 'le sausage-in-a-bun'). A running subplot featuring a dastardly conspiracy against Lord Vetinari moves the action along, but it's actually the story of the struggle of William's conscience and means to bring the truth to Diskworld's population...whether they can handle it or not.<br />A good deal of sociological truth is neatly and unobtrusively sandwiched between the witty writing, including allegories on the rise of the Internet and the ways to deal with flood problems in our own society.  But it's Pratchett's sharp wit and unparalleled turn of phrase that drive the book and justly attract the fans, and his writing is as golden as ever, from the off-handed mot juste to the groan-out-loud pun (photographs taken with magical 'dark light' are referred to as 'Prints of Darkness'). I'd go as far as to say that Pratchett is the twenty-first century heir to P.G. Wodehouse (and that's the highest praise possible from me). No other contemporary writer can make an elaborate joke or off-handed comment seem so casual, so easy, so natural, that we all think 'I could do that' until we actually try to sit down and dissect what's so funny about the sentence. In the UK Pratchett sells more than Stephen King and John Grisham--he's not quite at that point here in the US, but certainly deserves to be.<br />Finally, in my review last year of &quot;The Fifth Elephant,&quot; I chided American publisher HarperCollins for not publishing that book simultaneous with the UK edition. I'm happy to report that we'll be able to get this one on the same date as the British friends. Thanks, HarperCollins!book and justly attract the fans, and his writing is as golden as ever, from the off-handed mot juste to the groan-out-loud pun (photographs taken with magical 'dark light' are referred to as 'Prints of Darkness'). I'd go as far as to say that Pratchett is the twenty-first century heir to P.G. Wodehouse (and that's the highest praise possible from me). No other contemporary writer can make an elaborate joke or off-handed comment seem so casual, so easy, so natural, that we all think 'I could do that' until we actually try to sit down and dissect what's so funny about the sentence. In the UK Pratchett sells more than Stephen King and John Grisham--he's not quite at that point here in the US, but certainly deserves to be. <br />Finally, in my review last year of &quot;The Fifth Elephant,&quot; I chided American publisher HarperCollins for not publishing that book simultaneous with the UK edition. I'm happy to report that we'll be able to get this one on the same date as the British friends. Thanks, HarperCollins!	2000-11-27
US	53060078	R1V7AWX5T0H0E	0786844108	288998997	The Funnie Mysteries: The Curse of Beetenkaumun (Disney's Doug: The Funnie Mysteries #4)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	These Doug mysteries cannot be beet!	I'm a fan of &quot;Doug&quot;...excuse me, *Disney's* Doug...a show geared for kids but just as enjoyable for young-at-heart adults. The same's true of &quot;The Curse of Beetnekaumun,&quot; easily the best so far of the &quot;Funnie Mysteries&quot; book series from Disney Press.<br />What makes this collection of four short mystery adventures stand out is the writing: Pamela Pollack and Meg Belviso have a great handle on what makes &quot;Doug&quot; fun for all ages. Their affection for the show is evident in spot-on characterization and authentic dialogue that you can just *hear* the animated characters saying.<br />Of course there's a healthy dose of gentle thrills and humor ranging from outrageously groan-worthy puns to enough funny pop-culture allusions to fill an episode of &quot;Mystery Science Theater 3000&quot;: references to Mitchum deodorant ads, Steve Martin's &quot;King Tut,&quot; Lara Croft, Mork from Ork, Saturday Night Fever, Mission: Impossible, the Beatles...<br />The mysteries themselves are not exactly Encyclopedia Brown-style solve-'em-yourself whodunits--the solutions to the mysteries are more humorous than they are logical, but filled with the gentle comedy and offbeat wit that's a trademark of the world of Doug Funnie.<br />If you've got a Doug fan in your life, do them a treat and pick up this great installment of the Funnie Mysteries: it cannot be beet!	2000-11-21
US	53060078	R2QG41BKWLQEJE	0671042432	132189272	Restoration (Star Trek New Frontier: Excalibur, Book 3)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	The Human Adventure is Just Beginning	I've praised Peter David's &quot;Excalibur&quot; series left and right, and the conclusion to his recent three book series is as strong as ever. At last we find out what happened in the final moments of the Excalibur, and that Captain Mackenzie Calhoun survived (aw, c'mon now, did you ever doubt it?). Like &quot;Requiem&quot; and &quot;Renaissance&quot; before it, &quot;Restoration&quot; follows just a few members of the Excalibur's (ex-Excalibur's?) crew: Calhoun and first officer Elizabeth Shelby.<br />Calhoun's adventure is a solid and exciting Star Trek western: a mix of &quot;High Noon&quot; and &quot;Shane,&quot; but following Shelby is much more interesting to me: the 'by-the-book' officer, a captain of her own starship at last, takes the first steps in learning what makes a captain great: the ability shared by Kirk, Picard, Sisko, and yes, especially Calhoun, to follow not necessarily what Starfleet training says, but to *do right*. It's a maturation for Shelby that is mirrored in the Calhoun plot, where he finds that his cowboy diplomacy doesn't and can't solve all his problems and save everyone. A &quot;New Frontier minipedia&quot; at the end is a great reference to the persons and events of the Excalibur series (although why not indicate which book is being referenced in each entry?)<br />Why four stars when I've given Peter David's previous Excalibur books such enthusiastic five star ratings? The exciting cliffhanger of the previous book is wrapped up in a flashback narrated by Robin Lefler (and, I'm sorry, not a very exciting cliffhanger at that). I've praised David's abilities to write dramatic and edge-of-your-seat cliffhangers, but I think he dropped the ball with the conclusion to this one.<br />That said, this is still one of the best Trek series out there, and I'll praise Peter David for allowing his characters to grow, change, learn, and mature--and for shaking up the status quo that so-seldom is shaken on a weekly TV Star Trek series. By the end of this book there's an adoption and a wedding, both of which seem natural and fulfilling as a storyline, as well as leading into potential future fascinating plots. That's David's top strength and my favorite aspect of his writing:, his characters are always uniquely human, and like all people, their lives change as they go on. &quot;Star Trek&quot; may appear to some people to be all about starships and phasers and weird future electronics, but in the hands of the best of Trek writers like David, it's the characters, not the gadgets, we care best about, whether earthling, hermaphrodite or Vulcan. As Gene Roddenbury would say: &quot;The human adventure is just beginning.&quot;d of this book there's an adoption and a wedding, both of which seem natural and fulfilling as a storyline, as well as leading into potential future fascinating plots. That's David's top strength and my favorite aspect of his writing:, his characters are always uniquely human, and like all people, their lives change as they go on. &quot;Star Trek&quot; may appear to some people to be all about starships and phasers and weird future electronics, but in the hands of the best of Trek writers like David, it's the characters, not the gadgets, we care best about, whether earthling, hermaphrodite or Vulcan. As Gene Roddenbury would say: &quot;The human adventure is just beginning.&quot;	2000-11-19
US	53060078	R1P4HUIQIGWEJ6	1563896877	331006216	Preacher: Dead or Alive	Books	5	23	25	N	N	&quot;A hell of a vision&quot;	In my crowded apartment, there's very few comic books in my collection that don't get put away in a comic longbox. Only a handful of titles make the cut to be displayed on my bookshelf: Neil Gaiman's &quot;Sandman,&quot; James Robinson's &quot;Starman,&quot; Jeff Smith's &quot;Bone,&quot; and Garth Ennis's &quot;Preacher&quot;: all of these I keep out to take down and read again and again.<br />Too often these days a comic book series is plagued by shifting writers, interior artists, and cover artists; it's a rare case when a unifying vision keeps a top team together for a full run on a series. It's even more rare when the team (writer Ennis, interior artists Steve Dillon, and cover artist Glenn Fabry) produce one of the more controversial, black-humored, anarchic, and *human* comic books in the past ten years. It's Ennis's writing that kept me coming back month after month, but it was the vibrant, vaguely unsettling Fabry portrait of Jesse Custer on the first issue that got me to pick the series up in the first place (well, that and my friend J.C. telling me I'd be a wanker if I passed on this series).<br />This gorgeous color collection of the original painted covers to the recently-concluded &quot;Preacher&quot; series is a great overview of how, month after month, Fabry's powerful art unified the series and made it one of the most distinctive and outrageous on the comic book stands. Plenty of original sketches show how covers evolved, and the covers themselves are reproduced without logos or sales information to give you the full effect of the art. Ennis and Fabry comment on (and critique) each cover. My only complaint is that the commentary is sometimes somewhat skimpy commentary.<br />A fair warning: like the series itself, this collection is not for everyone. Black-humored, blasphemous, sometimes physically grotesque but always powerful, these images have the power to offend...well, just about everybody. It helps to be a Preacher fan and understand these images in context, and to come to this collection with an open mind and a sense of humor.<br />For a &quot;Preacher' fan this is a necessity; I'd even recommend it to graphics people or budding artists as a great overview of design and anatomy that straddles the grotesque and the fantastic. You'll proudly display it on your bookshelf next to your paperback bound volumes of the Preacher comic. (Now, DC, now about issuing the comic volumes themselves in hardcover much like the Gaiman &quot;Sandman&quot; volumes?)es in context, and to come to this collection with an open mind and a sense of humor.<br />For a &quot;Preacher' fan this is a necessity; I'd even recommend it to graphics people or budding artists as a great overview of design and anatomy that straddles the grotesque and the fantastic. You'll proudly display it on your bookshelf next to your paperback bound volumes of the Preacher comic. (Now, DC, now about issuing the comic volumes themselves in hardcover much like the Gaiman &quot;Sandman&quot; volumes?)	2000-11-19
US	53060078	R3FRVO8LMEM914	0689829531	632597912	Olivia	Books	5	104	107	N	N	The best children's picture book of the year!	&quot;This is Olivia,&quot; begins Ian Falconer's delightful picture book about a precocious piglet. &quot;She is good at lots of things.&quot; In charming and hilarious illustrations, Olivia's busy adventures take her through dress-up, playing with her cat, going to the beach and museum, (reluctantly) taking a nap, and going to bed after just one story...no, three stories.<br />This simply is one of the finest children's picture books of the year, and sure to be named on everyone's Top of 2000 list. Quietly humorous and tongue-in-cheek narration, fluid and expressive black-and-white-and-red artwork, and the charming portrayal of the busy and mischievous Olivia make this an instant classic. Sight gags abound (Olivia's ambitious sandcastle, her pink-pink sunburn, her dreams of being a ballerina, and her songbook &quot;40 Very Loud Songs&quot;) and Falconer, a New Yorker cover artist and theatre designer, portrays the never-ending energy of a tiny pig, er, girl, with wit and charm.<br />Don't miss this one: suitable for all ages from the very young to the very old, &quot;Olivia&quot; is the prize of the season. It's the kind of book kids will be begging to have read to them before bed: bargaining for not once, not twice, but three times.	2000-11-19
US	53060078	R3UFV617L6U012	0785107630	873250802	X-Men 1 Backpack Marvels Target: Angel (Backpack Marvels)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Classic X-Stories in an affordable and attractive format	Give credit to Marvel Comics for their aggressive and wide-ranging program of re-printing classic comics: in formats for all ages and budgets, Marvel has released reissues of their groundbreaking comic books in hardcover (Marvel Masterworks), softcover (graphic novel reprints and the b/w &quot;Essentials&quot; collections), comic book format, and now the new &quot;Backpack Marvels&quot;: digest-sized collection of 7-8 comic book classics. This book reprints Uncanny X-Men #167-173, featuring top X-Men scribe Chris Claremont's writing and artwork on the book by Paul Smith and a fill-in issue by the great Walt Simonson. Fans of the recent X-Men movie will find this collection easier to get into than the current comic book (most of the characters in this collection appear in the movie: Cyclops, Wolverine, Rogue, and Storm).<br />This truly is classic, almost 'primal' X-Men: originally published in the years before there were ten or twelve X-books with complicated and conflicting storylines, month after month Claremont told some of the most entertaining and eloquent tales in the four-color medium. There's such a good range of stories in here: the X-Men's return from battling the Brood, the introduction of the Morlocks and Madeleine Pryor, Rogue's admission into the X-Men--much different than the movie version!--and best of all, a Wolverine/Rogue team-up story that's so well-written, so powerfully drawn (check out the amazing, Frank Miller-inspired silent fight sequence) that the ending leaves a tear in your eye and you hardly notice Wolverine is absent for the first half of this collection. Smith's artwork is clean and crisp and reproduces well in black and white at this slightly reduced size, and even with today's computerized lettering companies, for my money there's still no better letterer in the business than Tom Orzechowski.<br />Only one complaint: I would have liked to see a &quot;story so far&quot; introduction. The collection starts abruptly, dropping the X-Men into a conflict with the New Mutants after an adventure in outer space (the ramifications of which drastically affect Professor X). A summary of what had gone on before and a brief introduction to the characters would have been useful to the first-time reader.<br />That said, I'm hoping there *are* plenty of new readers for this book and this format: one of Marvel's challenges in the 21st century is to find a wider and new audience for comic books as a whole. This attractive package, affordable price, and classic collection of stories may be what the industry needs to sell comics outside the traditional comic book store market. I can easily see this attractive little volume being sold at newsstands, airport gift shops, bookstores, and more.n into a conflict with the New Mutants after an adventure in outer space (the ramifications of which drastically affect Professor X). A summary of what had gone on before and a brief introduction to the characters would have been useful to the first-time reader.<br />That said, I'm hoping there *are* plenty of new readers for this book and this format: one of Marvel's challenges in the 21st century is to find a wider and new audience for comic books as a whole. This attractive package, affordable price, and classic collection of stories may be what the industry needs to sell comics outside the traditional comic book store market. I can easily see this attractive little volume being sold at newsstands, airport gift shops, bookstores, and more.	2000-11-19
US	53060078	RAHQUNVCWDAGH	0812930029	815847737	The Curious New Yorker: 329 Fascinating Questions and Surprising Answers about New York City	Books	5	14	14	N	N	You want NYC answers? I got yer answers right here, pal!	Among my favorite books are Cecil Adams's pointed and funny &quot;Straight Dope&quot; series, in which, with wit and candor, he answers any stupid question a reader cares to pose him. Here's the New York City equivalent: an entertaining, educational, and enlightening collection of questions about New York City, answered with style and authority by the writers of the New York Times's &quot;F.Y.I.&quot; column.<br />This is an essential collection for any New York resident, expatriate, fan, or tourist. Ever wonder why subway conductors perform that wacky John Travolta pointing move before opening the doors of a train? What's that imposing-looking building with no windows in lower Manhattan? What's up with the Grecian urn design on paper coffee cups in New York delis? For anyone who's ever wondered about NYC mysteries like these (and many, many more), here's the ultimate resource.<br />Like eating peanuts, it's addictive (I dare to you just read *one* question and answer!), and the Q&amp;A format is brisk and entertaining, answering queries on subjects ranging from history, sports, streets, food, subways, and New Yorkers of all stripes. A thorough &quot;New York Gazetteer&quot; at the end is a quick almanac of all that info you think you need but don't know where to find (how to determine the nearest cross street to a Manhattan address, what's your police precinct and community board location, etc.) The only complaint? This book ends much too soon...sequel, please, FYI guys?<br />If you live in New York or visit it, you *need* this book. After all, the consummate New Yorker is a know-it-all expert who always has the answers about the most arcane and obscure topic. With this book, you can be one too.	2000-11-19
US	53060078	R2L9Q3X9C68U5X	0060289597	390451106	The Sterkarm Handshake	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Colorful and exciting time travel novel	&quot;The Sterkarm Handshake&quot; is based on an intriguing science-fiction/fantasy concept--time travel to the 16th century--that actually takes a backseat to the examination of cultural differences and a surprisingly effective and subtle love story between a twenty-first century researcher and a sixteenth-century warrior. Has researcher Andrea &quot;gone native&quot; in the stronghold of the warrior clan Sterkarms, or will she stand by her 21st century corporation when war threatens to break out between then and her 16th century friends--and her love, the tender but strong-willed Per? The great strength in Susan Price's writing is that, like Andrea, we can see no easy answers in the choice between the two worlds: yes, the 21st-century corporation is ruthless and intends to exploit the natural resources of the 16th, but at the same time the 16th century warriors are every bit as merciless in their constant raiding. The love story is handled subtlely and effectively, and Andrea's confusion over which world to stand by is believable and involving.<br />Price is excellent at the details of portraying the world of the sixteenth century: the strong smells, the muted colors, the brotherhood of the warriors and the affection with which they hold each other. Even Per's faithful dogs are well-rounded and intriguing characters. With any novel with this much going on, however, there's a few plot holes that nagged at me: most notably the introduction of Joe, a twenty-first century homeless man who just *happens* to be the descendant of the Sterkarms, just *happens* to run into Andrea and Per, just *happens* to be wearing a t-shirt that says Sterkarm, and just *happens* to be able to understand some of Per's archaic speech. Such a wild string of coincidences weakens the effectiveness of Joe's character, who's essential to contrast Andrea's reticence to choose one world over another. Another character, the head of the 21st century corporation, is almost too cartoonish: an evil corporate raider determined to strip-mine the 16th century, leaving no one alive to stand in his way. By the time he's prancing about in military garb with a swagger stick, he's gone from two-dimensional to a caricature.<br />Still, it's an amazing and involving read, with great characterization, intriguing cultural examination, fanciful concept, and exciting battle sequences in both centuries. Susan Price has written over thirty books, but she's still not yet a big name in the US. This book could catapult her into the big league.corporate raider determined to strip-mine the 16th century, leaving no one alive to stand in his way. By the time he's prancing about in military garb with a swagger stick, he's gone from two-dimensional to a caricature. <br />Still, it's an amazing and involving read, with great characterization, intriguing cultural examination, fanciful concept, and exciting battle sequences in both centuries. Susan Price has written over thirty books, but she's still not yet a big name in the US. This book could catapult her into the big league.	2000-10-06
US	53060078	R11RCV3THKSYLA	0060286245	926515352	Little Lit: Folklore and Fairy Tale Funnies	Books	5	45	45	N	N	Delightful, colorful fairy tales in comic book form	I'm a long-time fan of comic books, but I'm 38...where are the new, young readers of stories in the comic book form going to come from? There's little that's geared specifically at kids in the modern American market: most comes from Europe, like the Asterix and Tintin books. The joy of such books is their universality: they don't have to be 'written down' for kids, they can appeal to adults as well as children  (&quot;Harry Potter&quot;, anyone?). Leave it to Art Spiegelman (the acclaimed &quot;Maus&quot;) to edit an oversized collection of 'folklore and fairy tale funnies&quot; that will delight and amuse kids and intrigue the adults as well! There's a wide range of contemporary alternative comic book artists (Charles Burns, Kaz, Joost Swarte, Daniel Clowes, Art Spiegelman) and children's book illustrators (William Joyce, J. Otto Seibold, David Macaulay, Claude Ponti), an elaborate and beautifully-designed punchout board game by Chris Ware (&quot;the Acme Novelty Library&quot;), and even a hard-to-find classic story by Walt Kelly (creator of &quot;Pogo&quot;).<br />The book's a beautiful package--an oversized hardcover just perfect for sprawling on the floor or crawling up in a lap with. Some of the pieces are straight-forward, somewhat twisted retellings of fairy tales and folktales, others are games or puzzles, but every one of them has a distinctive and colorful charm. You'll have your own favorites--mine are the Japanese-style, subtly-toned &quot;Fisherman and the Sea Princess&quot; by David Mazzucchelli and the macabre but pointedly-moral &quot;The Hungry Horse&quot; by Kaz--but there's stories in here for every sensibility and mood, outrageous or subtle. And don't think that just because it's 'comic-booky' that it's not great: teach your kids how to read visual storytelling, how to follow the word balloons, captions, and panel sequences, and they'll soon be ready for some of the finest the medium has to offer: 'Calvin and Hobbes,' 'Tintin,' 'Akiko,' 'The Spirit' --all of them great stories *and* storytelling, even though the characters are in little boxes talking with word balloons.rit' --all of them great stories *and* storytelling, even though the characters are in little boxes talking with word balloons.	2000-10-02
US	53060078	R31SFJ78NPOCNU	0671042157	757593145	Paper Universe (Star Trek)	Books	4	19	24	N	N	For origami enthusiasts and Trek completists only	If you're an intermediate or advanced fan of origami, you'll enjoy this book. If you're a completist collector who absolutely must have every Trek book published, sure, go ahead, buy it. Aside from that, there's probably not a reason for you to pick up &quot;Star Trek: Paper Universe.&quot;<br />It's a clever concept: using origami, create 16 &quot;Star Trek&quot; starships from all the Enterprises to  a Klingon cruiser. Ten small sheets of origami paper are included to get you started, and a decent introduction to the basic folds and concepts of paper folding gives you the bare essentials of the craft. The problem is, it really *is* the bare essentials. Even with careful practice, these are complicated and difficult models to make, and may prove frustrating to a beginner.<br />I'm giving this four stars as it's exactly what it promises: a solid and comprehensive guide to creating paper starships. Still, there are a couple minor problems. First, there too few sheets of paper that come with the books, and they're too small to practice on: if you truly wish to make these models (and correctly made, they really are quite impressive!), get yourself a big stack of larger origami paper than comes with the book. A second problem is that even though none of these ship models are beginner-level, some *are* simpler than others. So, rather than dividing the book by theme (Part One is Enterprises, followed by other Federation vessels, followed by alien ships), why not arrange them in order of difficulty? You *should* learn how to make a Borg Cube before attempting an Enterprise-E.	2000-10-02
US	53060078	R2X03Y6QCQLE8D	0743411803	662278591	1: The Genesis Wave Book One (Star Trek: The Next Generation)	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Interesting concept, but could be one book	An interesting concept: bringing the threat of the Genesis Device from &quot;Star Trek II&quot; (the best of the movies) into &quot;modern-day&quot; Next Generation continuity. Vornholt has certainly done his homework: the characterization is decent and dialogue is authentic (he has a great handle on Geordi La Forge's unease around women), and it's to his credit that Deanna Troi has a scene in which she saves the day, a nice contrast to the usual role for Troi (&quot;look hot and state the obvious&quot;). I was especially impressed with the re-introduction of Maltz, the surviving Klingon from &quot;Star Trek III&quot;: his dialogue is sharp, witty, and sounds perfectly authentic, and his dismay at being a forgotten member of Klingon society is a nice subplot.<br />In the end, however, the book isn't compelling enough for me to want to wait the six months until the second volume, due out in April 2001. The plot is remarkably static, consisting of several destructions of inhabited planets by the fast-moving Genesis Wave. By the time the Wave threatens the Bolian homeworld, I was a touch bored: it was a case of &quot;been there, done that&quot; that made the climax much less dramatic. A ridiculous scene where Riker and Data are trampled by panicking natives did more to inspire giggles in me than shock or concern. Further, a well-researched full chapter Starfleet &quot;report&quot; on the Genesis device stops the action dead, and runs over the same ground that could have been covered with more interest and less numbing detail in an Enterprise strategy meeting. Finally, the &quot;to be continued&quot; aspect is frustrating and makes me feel like I've paid for half a novel. I know I have praised other continued Trek novels (Shatner's novels, the Excalibur series, the &quot;Belle Terre&quot; books), but I didn't feel as if I got a full novel here, and the six-month wait for the conclusion almost guarantees that by the time Book Two comes out, I won't be interested anymore. In short, interesting concept, some good characterization, but there's nothing here that couldn't have, in my opinion, been done in one single, tighter volume.In short, interesting concept, some good characterization, but there's nothing here that couldn't have, in my opinion, been done in one single, tighter volume.	2000-10-02
US	53060078	R2E7UQZNNS1ORQ	0671002198	45901537	The Star Trek Sketchbook	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Colorful behind-the-scenes Trek design history	As a very long-time Trek fan, I'm very pleased and surprised at this book: pleased because it's a solid, colorful, heavily illustrated survey of set, ship, costume, makeup, and prop design for the original Star Trek series. Surprised, because even with the large number of Trek books I've collected, I've actually seen very few of these illustrations before (some of the original Enterprise designs were printed in the early Trek book &quot;The Making of Star Trek&quot; by Stephen E. Whitfield). That a design book on a thirty-five year old TV series presents 'new' illustrations I haven't seen before is a definite plus.<br />This book is by no means complete--the designs are heavily weighted towards those of the series' third season (during which the scripts were definitely sub-par but the designs and effects were often as strong as ever). Focusing on the works of the four Trek design &quot;pioneers&quot;: Matt Jefferies, William Ware Theiss, Fred Phillips, and Wah Min Chang comprehensively covers a wide range of ships (checks out the early Enterprise design that looks like a duck!), sets, makeup, and those oh-so-revealing alien woman costumes (including one design candidly labeled &quot;Space Hooker.&quot;)<br />Lots of color illustrations in extensive detail show the wide range of designing for the future on a 1960s budget. Even the many black-and-white illustrations are made more vibrant by adding a color background...less than authentic, but adds to an attractive design. A lot of interesting background text and images adds to my appreciation of Trek's design (did you know the same man who designed the communicator designed the Pillsbury Doughboy?) A great piece of behind-the-scenes design history of a classic show.	2000-10-02
US	53060078	R2ZDJ3KH67J94O	0312974205	950173382	Dead Souls: An Inspector Rebus Novel (Inspector Rebus Novels)	Books	5	39	39	N	N	The best Scots writer of today...in *or* out of crime novels	I'm a fan of contemporary British mysteries, and Ian Rankin's extraordinary John Rebus series ranks among the best. This recent entry in the Edinburgh police procedural series is a great starting point for a new reader; for the long-time Rebus-fan, it's a look inside Rebus's dark past. When the son of a former love goes missing, Rebus takes up the (unofficial) investigation; never mind that he's already got his professional life full of a few other major cases including the suicide of a colleague, a hunt for a former child molester, and a manipulative, charismatic serial killer released into Edinburgh and wooed by a glory-seeking journalist. A &quot;perfect&quot; detective would solve every one of the cases, wrapping all four cases up by the final chapter in time for a drink and a witty denouement at the local pub. Thankfully, Rebus is not such a cliche. A happy ending isn't the goal here--cases are flubbed, go awry, and entangle Rebus's personal life, friends, and family in dangerous ways.<br />Sounds dark, no? But that's one of the reasons I love the Rankin mysteries. No one is better than Rankin at setting the scene of Edinburgh: from the crowded, tempestuous housing projects to the smoke and lager filled pubs. But it's the characters, razor-sharp dialogue, and personalities that make Rankin the master he is: once again Rebus is the troubled hero, his time and attention divided between his complicated personal life and police cases. He doesn't just make an attempt to figure out whodunit, he digs deep into the human mind to find out &quot;why&quot;...and drags himself deeper into his own personal hell in the process. He is motivated by a sense of justice--whether or not it conflicts with the law or the wishes of his long-suffering superior &quot;The Farmer.&quot; We aren't along for the ride to watch Rebus crack the cases--we're along for his personal triumphs, no matter how small, and for his darkest moments, from alcoholism to cigarette addiction to remembering the loss of his innocent youth. These moments, set to Rebus's own personal &quot;soundtrack&quot; of classic rock music when he retreats to his armchair with his headphones for just one moment of peace, make this dark, nuanced, and many-layered psychological crime series a classic.<br />For those keeping score of the Rebus mysteries: several of the subplots in this book were first used in Rankin's novella &quot;Death is Not the End.&quot; I gave that one four stars as a great introduction or brief look into the psychology of Rebus. &quot;Dead Souls&quot; gets a full five stars: as a full-length novel, Rankin's dark and nuanced writing continues to show that he's one of the top talents in British crime fiction today. If you want a British mystery with a clever-clever ending and a witty twist solution, this one might not be for you. But if you want some of the best writing about all the aspects of Edinburgh society...the best in *and* out of a crime novel...then run, don't walk, to grab a Ian Rankin novel.the loss of his innocent youth. These moments, set to Rebus's own personal &quot;soundtrack&quot; of classic rock music when he retreats to his armchair with his headphones for just one moment of peace, make this dark, nuanced, and many-layered psychological crime series a classic.<br />For those keeping score of the Rebus mysteries: several of the subplots in this book were first used in Rankin's novella &quot;Death is Not the End.&quot; I gave that one four stars as a great introduction or brief look into the psychology of Rebus. &quot;Dead Souls&quot; gets a full five stars: as a full-length novel, Rankin's dark and nuanced writing continues to show that he's one of the top talents in British crime fiction today. If you want a British mystery with a clever-clever ending and a witty twist solution, this one might not be for you. But if you want some of the best writing about all the aspects of Edinburgh society...the best in *and* out of a crime novel...then run, don't walk, to grab a Ian Rankin novel.	2000-10-01
US	53060078	ROU414R8GDZ0U	0671042386	905703132	Requiem (Star Trek New Frontier: Excalibur, Book 9)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Could this be the best Star Trek book series ever?	I've followed the Pocket Books Star Trek publishing program for twenty years since Vonda McIntyre's &quot;The Entropy Effect.&quot; Many of its hundreds of books have been pretty good. Some have been great. A lot have been less-than-average. But page-for-page, no one Trek writer has entertained me as much as Peter David, and none of Peter David's Trek books have inspired so much enthusiasm in me as his &quot;Excalibur&quot; novels. Filled with characters (mostly) of his own creation, unfettered by a writer's bible or much of the complicated Trek continuity, these twelve (so far) novels have proven to be my ultimate favorites in Trek books, and the two newest are better than ever.<br />I've mentioned in other Trek book reviews that I heartily applaud any attempt to focus on characters other than &quot;the big three&quot; of each TV series (c'mon, I can't be the only Chekov fan out there!) so the whole concept of the Excalibur books and their non-TV cast crew has been most enjoyable. David takes this concept one step further in &quot;Requiem&quot; and its sequel &quot;Renaissance&quot;: after the destruction of the Starship Excalibur and the apparent death of Captain Mackenzie Calhoun, the crew breaks up to follow their own adventures. David deftly mixes three subplots: Soleta searching for her hated father, McHenry and Kebron on a funny &quot;X-Files&quot; type investigation which leads them into conflict with a previously-established Trek character, and Si Cwan and Kalinda search for the murderer of their teacher. Nearly every chapter ends with a decent hook or cliffhanger, showing David could write a compelling TV episode that might at least keep us tuned through the commercials!<br />Why are these among the best Star Trek novels ever? The characterization is, in a mere dozen books, incredible--David takes time and effort to get us inside the heads of his Starfleet crew, to the point where I know much more about most of them than many of the &quot;Voyager&quot; characters. His dialogue is entertaining, brisk, and best of all *fun* to read: David has a keen ear for the way people talk--with sarcasm and humor. The action is fast-paced. And best of all, the characters *grow* and *learn* through the book, throughout the series. Soleta's quest surprises us as much almost as much as it does her, mostly for the reason that I can't think of the last time a Trek character has &quot;grown up&quot; and discovered something so major about themselves since DS9's &quot;In the Pale Moonlight&quot; episode. David's not above throwing in a shocker of characterization once in a while (what *is* the mysterious connection between McHenry and a long-standing Trek nemesis?)--it wouldn't be a Trek novel without surprising revelations. In short, Rick Berman could do worse than to hire Peter David as story editor and consultant for the next Trek series: no one quite brings humanism to &quot;Star Trek&quot; like Peter David.racters. His dialogue is entertaining, brisk, and best of all *fun* to read: David has a keen ear for the way people talk--with sarcasm and humor. The action is fast-paced. And best of all, the characters *grow* and *learn* through the book, throughout the series. Soleta's quest surprises us as much almost as much as it does her, mostly for the reason that I can't think of the last time a Trek character has &quot;grown up&quot; and discovered something so major about themselves since DS9's &quot;In the Pale Moonlight&quot; episode. David's not above throwing in a shocker of characterization once in a while (what *is* the mysterious connection between McHenry and a long-standing Trek nemesis?)--it wouldn't be a Trek novel without surprising revelations. In short, Rick Berman could do worse than to hire Peter David as story editor and consultant for the next Trek series: no one quite brings humanism to &quot;Star Trek&quot; like Peter David.	2000-10-01
US	53060078	R3PMSXBWYBVQR1	0671042394	139288324	Renaissance (Star Trek New Frontier: Excalibur, Book 10)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Storylines and themes the TV series shy away from	I've praised Peter David's &quot;Excalibur&quot; series left and right (see also my review of the prequel to this book, &quot;Requiem.&quot;) &quot;Renaissance&quot; carries on the same great tradition and in the best of all possible worlds, gives us action, personal growth stories, examinations of alien cultures, guest stars galore, and one heck of a cliffhanger. But it's in his handling of themes that are ignored by the TV series that Peter David excels, making these among the best Trek novels ever.<br />Free of the restraints of television censors, David is able to examine a much-ignored theme of &quot;Star Trek&quot;: sexual relations of the twenty-fourth century. His treatment of these subjects is always tasteful and tactful (although I'm aware that by even mentioning the subject in this review, I'm likely to turn off or even outrage a few potential readers). Much of the novel is taken up with a child-custody battle between Selar and Burgoyne--&quot;Kramer vs. Kramer&quot; in the 24th Century--but with the added twists of ancient Vulcan law and the examination of exactly how a hermaphrodite species treats and understands the concept of children. Add to all this a gay Vulcan, introduced as a very natural and ordinary character with the minimum of fuss. It's nuances and treatments like this that bring the Excalibur universe best into line with Roddenbury's original vision: a time in which those beliefs and lifestyles that caused societal strife today have simply ceased to be a matter for conflict four hundred years from now (which is not to say *all* problems have been solved, or it would be a short and uninteresting book!). It's a love story, it's a personal growth story, and there's even one humdinger of a very-Trekkish action sequence.<br />Though it's not part of the &quot;official&quot; continuity, this Excalibur novel features not one, not two, but *three* classic Trek guest-stars. It's to David's credit that these guest appearances seem natural and welcome (too often a 'special guest appearance' reads like a ratings stunt or a fan fiction). As always, David's characterization in the Trek universe is second-to-none, and intriguing mysteries about established characters are introduced: *I* personally always thought that Morgan Primus must look like Naomi Judd (well, her daughter *is* played by Ashley Judd!), but Peter David has other ideas who she must look like...and personally, I can't wait to find out the rest. &quot;Renaissance&quot; ends with a classic Trek cliffhanger, but thankfully we won't have to wait a whole summer to find out the ending in &quot;Excalibur: Restoration&quot; out in October.(too often a 'special guest appearance' reads like a ratings stunt or a fan fiction). As always, David's characterization in the Trek universe is second-to-none, and intriguing mysteries about established characters are introduced: *I* personally always thought that Morgan Primus must look like Naomi Judd (well, her daughter *is* played by Ashley Judd!), but Peter David has other ideas who she must look like...and personally, I can't wait to find out the rest. &quot;Renaissance&quot; ends with a classic Trek cliffhanger, but thankfully we won't have to wait a whole summer to find out the ending in &quot;Excalibur: Restoration&quot; out in October.	2000-10-01
US	53060078	R1UULKO4N4PLUI	0553328255	390250393	The Complete Sherlock Holmes (2 Volumes)	Books	5	132	139	N	N	The ultimate omnibus edition	Every Holmes fan has more than one version of the Canon, and this should be among the collection as your standard 'reading copy.' Until I discovered  this edition, my favorite reading version was the 1970s Ballantine editions  (with great introductions ranging from Joe Gores to Ellery Queen to P.G.  Wodehouse)--but sadly, that edition is out of print, and never contained  the final two Conan Doyle books anyway. This oversized paperback aptly  fills the modern role of a definitive edition.<br />As for the stories  themselves, you simply can't go wrong in rediscovering or reading Holmes  for the first time. Sure, Conan Doyle's stories sometimes lacked an  internal logic (my favorite tale, 'The Adventure of the Red-Headed  League,&quot; is riddled with plot holes). But there's a reason these have  remained as classics that have never gone out of popular fashion, over a  hundred years since publication: they're entertaining, cleverly written,  wonderfully detailed, and often edge-of-your-seat thrilling. Included are  all 57 short stories (ideal for a quite hour in your armchair, or for a  commute during which you can escape to Victorian London) and the four  longer novels (the most popular of which is &quot;The Hound of the  Baskervilles,&quot; but don't pass up the sublime and underrated &quot;The  Valley of Fear&quot;). This is the ideal book for a long vacation  (especially to London!), and, if I were stranded on a desert island, this  is the book I'd want most with me (well, after that 'How to Build an  Island-Escaping Raft from Coconuts' book).<br />If you haven't discovered  Sherlock Holmes, this is the edition of his adventures to buy. If you read  Conan Doyle long ago but haven't picked him up since, this is the edition  to buy. If you've got several other Sherlock Holmes books on your shelf but  want a single-volume complete edition, this is the edition to buy. As it's  been said, 'There's no police like Holmes.'	2000-09-20
US	53060078	R1XXLKVW7BRUTU	0486282147	671217915	The Hound of the Baskervilles (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Classic book, can't beat the price!	[This is a review of the Dover thrift Edition of 'The Hound of the Baskervilles'] Dover Thrift Editions have done a lot to get me to read  great literature: classic lit at an *incredibly* affordable price (at the  time I'm writing this review the book retails for a *buck fifty*...even if  it goes up, that's still one of the best book values you'll ever find!).<br />Dover's no-frills approach (generic jackets, inexpensive paper) belies  the classic range of their thrift editions, and this is one of my  favorites: Conan Doyle's best-known Sherlock Holmes adventure, genuinely  chilling and moody. If you haven't read it in a long while, you might have  forgotten how well-drawn and detailed this is. Conan Doyle's characters,  dialogue, cliffhangers (Chapter Two's end is, in my opinion, one of English  lit's best example of suspenseful cliffhangers that will have you flipping  the page), setting and the suspenseful climax have made this a mystery  classic for over a hundred years. If you're familiar only with Nigel  Bruce's humorous but bumbling portrayal of Doctor Watson, you'll enjoy the  *true* Watson of the novel...intelligent man of action, trusted by Holmes  to investigate the scene ahead of him.<br />The price makes this an excellent  gift (aw, at this price, go ahead and pick them up a few more Dover Thrift  editions, including 'Six Great Sherlock Holmes Stories') or a great book to  take on a trip (at this price, you can afford to give it away to a fellow  traveler when you've finished).	2000-09-20
US	53060078	R2ZBLIL3SDIJTE	0671014722	778441998	The Star Trek Sticker Book	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Stick me up, Scotty!	I don't know if anyone else remembers the first Star Trek sticker book published immediately after &quot;Star Trek: The Motion Picture.&quot; It  featured images and graphics from that first film, and I drooled when I saw  it in the store. Never got it. Now it probably sells on eBay for over a  hundred bucks.<br />Well, just like Spock and the Defiant, this book has a  second life in this all-new edition. This excellent collection of  well-designed stickers is a lot of fun for any Trek fan with insignia,  ships, labels, symbols, signs, and more ranging from Kirk's command badge  to the &quot;Deep Space Niners&quot; baseball team logo. Borg ships,  antimatter warning labels, communicators, IDICs, the Delta Flyer, Ferengi  symbols...they're all here, images from all four series and most of the  movies.<br />A unique bonus is the 'official history' and 'behind the scenes'  info by Star Trek designers Michael and Denise Okuda that extensively  annotates each image. This section alone means that you'll want to keep  this book long after you've peeled off and used all the stickers. It's a  great gift for the Star Trek fan in your life and huge fun for kids...I  keep a copy in my work office and pass out stickers to visiting kids.<br />My  only complaint, and it's a minor one: my favorite stickers are the  'Enterprise-D' Starfleet Panel Labels (in section five of the book). These  are great for sticking on your computer and other electronic equipment...I  would have liked to see more than one page of them! How else would my  co-workers know that my Mac must remain online unless disconnect is  authorized by the bridge's ops officer?	2000-09-20
US	53060078	R2LA25GIFHQOOL	0060293926	390451106	The Sterkarm Handshake	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Colorful and exciting time travel novel	&quot;The Sterkarm Handshake&quot; is based on an intriguing  science-fiction/fantasy concept--time travel to the 16th century--that  actually takes a backseat to the examination of cultural differences and a  surprisingly effective and subtle love story between a twenty-first century  researcher and a sixteenth-century warrior. Has researcher Andrea  &quot;gone native&quot; in the stronghold of the warrior clan Sterkarms, or  will she stand by her 21st century corporation when war threatens to break  out between then and her 16th century friends--and her love, the tender but  strong-willed Per? The great strength in Susan Price's writing is that,  like Andrea, we can see no easy answers in the choice between the two  worlds: yes, the 21st-century corporation is ruthless and intends to  exploit the natural resources of the 16th, but at the same time the 16th  century warriors are every bit as merciless in their constant raiding. The  love story is handled subtlely and effectively, and Andrea's confusion over  which world to stand by is believable and involving.<br />Price is excellent  at the details of portraying the world of the sixteenth century: the strong  smells, the muted colors, the brotherhood of the warriors and the affection  with which they hold each other. Even Per's faithful dogs are well-rounded  and intriguing characters. With any novel with this much going on, however,  there's a few plot holes that nagged at me: most notably the introduction  of Joe, a twenty-first century homeless man who just *happens* to be the  descendant of the Sterkarms, just *happens* to run into Andrea and Per,  just *happens* to be wearing a t-shirt that says Sterkarm, and just  *happens* to be able to understand some of Per's archaic speech. Such a  wild string of coincidences weakens the effectiveness of Joe's character,  who's essential to contrast Andrea's reticence to choose one world over  another. Another character, the head of the 21st century corporation, is  almost too cartoonish: an evil corporate raider determined to strip-mine  the 16th century, leaving no one alive to stand in his way. By the time  he's prancing about in military garb with a swagger stick, he's gone from  two-dimensional to a caricature.<br />Still, it's an amazing and involving  read, with great characterization, intriguing cultural examination,  fanciful concept, and exciting battle sequences in both centuries. Susan  Price has written over thirty books, but she's still not yet a big name in  the US. This book could catapult her into the big league.st too cartoonish: an evil corporate raider determined to strip-mine  the 16th century, leaving no one alive to stand in his way. By the time  he's prancing about in military garb with a swagger stick, he's gone from  two-dimensional to a caricature. <br />Still, it's an amazing and involving  read, with great characterization, intriguing cultural examination,  fanciful concept, and exciting battle sequences in both centuries. Susan  Price has written over thirty books, but she's still not yet a big name in  the US. This book could catapult her into the big league.	2000-09-13
US	53060078	RHRMZM8SEQ1GF	0399146601	927649912	Shattered	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Another great one from the Master	I first discovered Dick Francis's mysteries with &quot;Reflex&quot; (about  halfway through his now extensive current series). One of the joys of  discovering a mystery writer who already has an extensive backlist of books  is being able to read all those older books immediately; I must have taken  no more than two weeks to devour Francis's entire backlist. One of the even  greater joys is when that writer keeps on creating and publishing a new  book every year. The greatest joy of all is when the one published in 2000  is as exciting and strongly written as the ones he wrote in the 1960s.<br />I  often joke to my friends that Dick Francis writes the same book year after  year after year, but if you're reading this, Mr. Francis, I mean that as  the highest compliment: there is no one as dependable and consistent to  turn our a strong mystery adventure with every new book. As in previous  books, &quot;Shattered&quot; features a likeable first-person male  protagonist caught up in a mystery involving the horse racing world, a  mystery that threatens him with physical danger but which is never a  deterrent to our hero to see justice done and the mystery solved.<br />Francis  continues to impress me as one of the best researchers in the mystery  world: many of his novels shows off his detailed knowledge of not only the  racing field but also an additional expertise. In &quot;Shattered&quot;  hero Gerard Logan is a glass-blower; I've learned more about the  intricacies of the craft from this book than I ever imagined. Better yet,  Francis makes learned about it interesting and vital to the plot. In  previous books he's focused on such diverse subjects as meteorology, wine  and spirits, flying, filmmaking, diamonds, delivery trucking, and much  more--all with a detailed expertise that's vital to the plot and a light  touch that never hammers you over the head. The search for a valuable  videotape leads Logan in conflict with a ruthless woman and a murderous  doctor...threatening his livelihood, his friends, and his life.  Still, my  favorite aspect of a Dick Francis novel is that his heroes--from jockeys to  breeders, investigators and painters, film stars and glassblowers--are  likeable, immensely personable, and always determined to do what's right.  They come off as ordinary men caught in extraordinary situations that would  have most of us hiding behind the sofa. I've never had to face a band of  murderous thugs or face physical threats, but if I did, I'd hope I'd be  able to deal with it as forthrightly and matter-of-factly as Francis's  regular-joe heroes. (Now, Mr. Francis, how about a novel about a guy who  works for a publishing company, writes reviews for an online bookseller,  and gets caught up in horse-racing mystery...?)eatening his livelihood, his friends, and his life.   Still, my  favorite aspect of a Dick Francis novel is that his heroes--from jockeys to  breeders, investigators and painters, film stars and glassblowers--are  likeable, immensely personable, and always determined to do what's right.  They come off as ordinary men caught in extraordinary situations that would  have most of us hiding behind the sofa. I've never had to face a band of  murderous thugs or face physical threats, but if I did, I'd hope I'd be  able to deal with it as forthrightly and matter-of-factly as Francis's  regular-joe heroes. (Now, Mr. Francis, how about a novel about a guy who  works for a publishing company, writes reviews for an online bookseller,  and gets caught up in horse-racing mystery...?)	2000-09-11
US	53060078	RNOVD3N86462Y	1840182377	43581018	The Bookshops of London: The Comprehensive Guide for Book Lovers in and Around the Capital	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Essential and comprehensive for the Anglophile biblophile!	I first bought an early edition of this book (or perhaps a similar book)  during my first trip to London in 1983, and for many years and several  trips it was my bible...I was long past due to get a new version! This  comprehensive and fairly thorough guide makes me wish I were in London now  to visit some of the many bookshops I've missed on trips since (including  the all-Doctor Who bookshop!)<br />&quot;The Bookshops of London&quot; is  exactly what it sounds like: extensive listings of independent, specialty,  and chain bookstores, with cross-listings so you can find the bookstore you  want within the section you're reading. The editorial stance is fairly  balanced and descriptive rather than judgmental (although Jackson seems a  bit obsessive over the concept of the new Piccadilly Waterstone's  superstore, and one familiar favourite shop of mine is described as  &quot;rather scruffy.&quot;) Addresses, phone and fax numbers, opening  hours, and websites and email (where available) compliment the concise but  targeted descriptions. An appendix lists shops by area (postal code) and in  alphabetical order to aid in finding the right shop.<br />As comprehensive as  this is, I'd love to see the nearest Tube stop added to each bookshop  listing in the next edition--surely that's the quickest and easiest way to  describe a bookshop's location! This small fault aside, this is an  essential and comprehensive guide for the book buyer, collector, and  bibliophile; no book-buying trip to London is complete without it. In no  time at all, your own copy will be dog-eared and highlighted.	2000-09-10
US	53060078	R2N10PFBGMMHGU	0767903854	430278994	In a Sunburned Country	Books	5	22	25	N	N	It's a big country...*somebody* has to travel it	I have a great deal of affection for Bill Bryson's writings. I'm a  long-time fan of travel essays, but I always cringe at those that take  their subjects too seriously...reflecting solely on the majesty, history,  culture, and tradition of a place. I want to shout at these writers: C'mon!  You're looking for a clean public toilet too, just like the rest of  us!<br />Bill Bryson isn't the only humorous travel writer, but he's one of  the most effective at taking the p*ss out of travel as a holy grail. He's  well informed and read on his subjects, but not afraid to say he's  forgotten the name of Australia's Prime Minister (and reflect that that  says a lot about the rest of the world's focus on Australia in the global  stage). He's curious and willing to try new things like body surfing, but  not too proud to let you know he's dead rotten at it. He'll seek out exotic  wildlife, and then retreat quickly to safety if it's venomous. He loves to  try out the local cuisine, but spends much of his time looking for a cold  beer. In short, he's someone *I'd* like to travel with--informed, funny,  and personable. He's less grumpy than usual (then again, these travels are  less physical arduous than hiking the Appalachian Trail in &quot;A Walk  Through the Woods&quot;).<br />His anecdotes are entertaining and  informative. I read this book the weekend before the airing of the PBS  mega-series on Australia, and learned much more (and laughed a whole lot  more too) from Bryson than from Robert Hughes. From the big cities to the  Outback Bryson travels (sometimes in a good nature, sometimes in a humorous  grumpiness), talking to the people we wish we'd meet on our travels, doing  the things we'd like to do, and asking the questions only a man with the  outspokenness of an American but the politeness of an Englishman could ask.<br />Which is not to say the whole book is a laugh riot. He's remarkably  effective discussing the treatment of Australia's Aborigine tribes by  modern culture, and the self-fulfilling prophecy of the country's  educational failure in teaching the Aborigines' next generation. That's the  mark of the best travel writer, in my view: he makes you laugh, he makes  you think, he teaches you something, and best of all, he makes you long to  visit and experience the country for yourself.culture, and the self-fulfilling prophecy of the country's  educational failure in teaching the Aborigines' next generation. That's the  mark of the best travel writer, in my view: he makes you laugh, he makes  you think, he teaches you something, and best of all, he makes you long to  visit and experience the country for yourself.	2000-09-08
US	53060078	R1XRSJZMLEGK53	1888001119	335773681	Signs of the Times (No. 2) (English, French and German Edition)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Sign, sign, everywhere a sign	Here's the most frequently asked question whenever I show people my  vacation photos: &quot;Why aren't there any people in your pictures?&quot;  That's because I spend most of my time and film photographing interesting  painted, tiled, or neon signs. Klaus Schmidt's gorgeous and quirky  collection of signs from around the world in his colorful photos puts my  snapshots to shame however (which, I suppose, is why he's a professional  photographer with a book contract, and I'm not!)<br />Schmidt's beautiful  full-color photographs of contemporary and historical signs take us around  the world and through a history of cultures in their signage: street  markers, pub signs, elaborate tombstones, gothic carvings, advertising  placards, movie marquees, brilliant neon, and even common sights that  aren't *completely* familiar (a McDonalds sign in Japanese). From famous  (Checkpoint Charlie's &quot;You are now leaving the American Sector&quot;)  to the obscure (Morocco mailboxes) this is a quirky, entertaining, and  beautifully designed collection, a wonderful book for photography fans,  travel buffs, and anyone who is intrigued by the portrayal of culture  through its most visible, yet often overlooked, public icons.	2000-09-08
US	53060078	R23RHJ419KWZGP	0671501062	823854536	Deep Space Nine Companion (Star Trek Deep Space Nine)	Books	5	39	39	N	N	Sisko lives! And here's how to keep track of his adventures	I'm an avid fan of the &quot;Star Trek The Next Generation  Companion,&quot; and this all-new volume examining what is arguably the  best (certainly the most controversial) Trek series is must reading for  anyone intrigued by the creation, scriptwriting and production of the  series.<br />Each and every episode is covered in depth with a plot summary  and detailed history &quot;behind the scenes&quot; of the episode's  creation, writing, and filming. One of the reasons I enjoyed DS9 so much is  the involved storyline of the series--the Dominion War--and having each of  the episodes laid out in chronological order, with extensive detail on the  structure of the storyline and subplots, helped me appreciate even more  what Berman and Piller and company set out to do. It's filled with  entertaining stories and nuggets of background information--how did they do  they, where did they get the idea for that, what worked (and didn't)...it's  ideal for the Star Trek fan as well as anyone interested in television  writing and production.<br />I don't entirely agree with some of the previous  review comments: understand that a book like this takes time to write and  create, not to mention publish, have sales reps advance into bookstores,  and print and ship. I work in publishing, and with very few exceptions,  publishing books takes a *long* lead time. There's no way this could have  been ready (or as complete) if it were issued last year. I'd also say,  again as someone working inside publishing, that adding color photographs  and a hardback binding, while nice, would dramatically increase the price  of the book, probably to forty dollars or above.<br />The very best  compliment I can give a book like is that it makes me want to go back to  the original source again. If you're a Trek fan, I dare you to pick this up  and not get totally involved in it, and *then* want to dig out your tapes  and rewatch all your favorite episodes...and even a few that this book will  give you a brand new appreciation for.brand new appreciation for.	2000-09-08
US	53060078	RPH1ZQGZZTIR9	0671021257	519262866	Star Trek: Preserver	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Kirk lives!	Who'da'thunkit? The Star Trek novels of Bill Shatner (easily the most  parodied of Star Trek actors) have, against my initial expectations, proven  to be some of my favorites in the past six years. The cynic in me  attributes a lot of that to the co-writing of two of my favorite Trek  novelist, Judith and Garfield Reeves-Stevens (their &quot;Prime  Directive&quot; is my all-time favorite Trek novel, as well as I think one  of the best Kirk stories ever), but it's clear Shatner's contribution is a  strong one: his passion for the character of James T. Kirk. Despite Kirk's  (controversial to fans) death a few years back in the &quot;official&quot;  history of Star Trek, it's comforting to see him back from the dead and  adventuring in the &quot;modern&quot; Trek continuity of Picard, Janeway,  and Sisko.<br />This conclusion to the second Kirk trilogy wraps up a number  of loose ends and requires *careful* reading: there's so much going on  here, including duplicate characters (twisted versions of our familiar  crews from the &quot;mirror universe&quot; including the galactic despot  Tiberius Kirk) and much reference to previous novels and episodes of both  Classic Trek and Next Gen. In fact, it was this constant introduction of  elements from the TV shows that led me to give this four stars instead of  five. The never-ending stream of characters and situations that we're  familiar with from other stories sometimes seems a bit shoehorned into the  plot and reminiscent of fan fiction rather than professional writing (I  sense the hands of the Reeves-Stevenses here; Shatner has never seemed that  expert on the intricacies of &quot;Star Trek the Next Generation.&quot;)  Many of these elements seem to be tossed in merely to provide a nudge-nudge  wink-wink familiarity to the Trek fans: Look! Here's the duplicate Earth  from &quot;Miri!&quot; Here's Balok from &quot;The Corbomite  Maneuver!&quot; Here's Zephram Cochrane and Lily from &quot;First  Contact!&quot; A subplot featuring a secret &quot;X-Files&quot;-type  organization within Starfleet command is intriguing but as frustrating for  us to follow as it is for Kirk and Picard to deal with. In short,  &quot;Preserver&quot; at its most effective only if you're up on your Trek  history *and* have read the other two books in the trilogy relatively  recently.<br />Still, the ending is remarkably touching and effective (and  sadly mirrors Shatner's recent real life), and you can't help but be glad  the novel ends with the words JAMES KIRK WILL RETURN. You bet he will. And  I'll be right there beside him.eaturing a secret &quot;X-Files&quot;-type  organization within Starfleet command is intriguing but as frustrating for  us to follow as it is for Kirk and Picard to deal with. In short,  &quot;Preserver&quot; at its most effective only if you're up on your Trek  history *and* have read the other two books in the trilogy relatively  recently.<br />Still, the ending is remarkably touching and effective (and  sadly mirrors Shatner's recent real life), and you can't help but be glad  the novel ends with the words JAMES KIRK WILL RETURN. You bet he will. And  I'll be right there beside him.	2000-09-08
US	53060078	R1KIXW6GKQNZ5P	1585420271	438817963	Quitting the Nairobi Trio	Books	5	24	27	N	N	It's not all &quot;Cuckoo's Nest&quot; or &quot;Girl Interrupted&quot;	The self-confessional, inside-the-mental-institution memoir has become  almost such a clich&eacute; in the past few years that I wondered if there was  anyone who could do anything new with it. I've been a fan of Jim Knipfel's  work in the New York Press and his outstanding memoir &quot;Slackjaw&quot;  for some time now, though, so it comes as no surprise that he's produced  one of the most entertaining and incisive personal memoirs on the subject  in recent years.<br />His dark-humored account of the months spent in a  locked-door psych ward make intriguing reading, but won't make a good  dramatic movie: the common factor to each day is the unending boredom (I  have to admire a guy who can read and re-read Lacan's &quot;Ecrits&quot;  day after day *without* going insane). Sure, there are the usual staple of  colorful characters you meet in this memoir, but they're not there to teach  Knipfel a valuable life lesson, befriend him or have adventures with him:  they're just there, having the same boring day he is, in which the most  exciting thing might be wrestling on TV or the movement of a woman patient  from her usual couch to another. Knipfel's probably most effective in  showing us that it wasn't the atmosphere, it wasn't the treatment (a weekly  ten-minute interview with a doctor), and it wasn't the fellow patients who  helped him get out of the place: it was himself, and his association with  an old Ernie Kovacs television sketch, that helped him secure his release:  maybe not &quot;cured&quot; (whatever that means), but ready to take on  life again.<br />(A personal note: I take great exception to the Amazon review  that &quot;if Jim Knipfel sat next to you on the bus, you'd get up and  move.&quot; I live in the same Brooklyn neighborhood he does, and regularly  see him on the F train into Manhattan. There's nothing about him that would  make you want to move away (and believe me, there's plenty of people like  that on the F train already). As Knipfel goes a long way towards pointing  out in this book, people who've been in mental institutions are *not* all  drooling or muttering--that quiet guy sitting next to you might have very  well been in one. Isn't that the point of his book, after all?)y towards pointing  out in this book, people who've been in mental institutions are *not* all  drooling or muttering--that quiet guy sitting next to you might have very  well been in one. Isn't that the point of his book, after all?)	2000-09-08
US	53060078	R45MS6XD009EQ	1585980188	114475125	Dick Francis: A Reader's Checklist and Reference Guide	Books	4	29	29	N	N	Keep your &quot;Enquiry,&quot; &quot;Nerve&quot; and &quot;Forfeit&quot; straight!	I'm an avid Dick Francis fan, and every time he releases a new book it  makes me want to go back and read some or all of his older titles. But in  over 30 years of writing, the man's racked up an impressive line of books.  I've sometimes had trouble remembering which is which: was &quot;The  Edge&quot; the one about the mystery train? Was &quot;Forfeit&quot; the one  about the reporter? Was &quot;Slayride&quot; the Russian mystery, or was  that &quot;Trial Run&quot;? Which were the three Sid Halley novels?<br />This  handy pocket guide is a great quick reference for just such questions. This  slim mass-market sized paperback devotes one page to every one of Francis's  books through 1998's &quot;Field of Thirteen,&quot; with a brief synopses  cleverly written to jog my memory (or intrigue the new reader) without  giving away vital plot secrets. It also serves as a checklist for readers  or collectors who want to mark off various books they've read, with space  to write in your own comments and ratings. It's attractively designed with  small (generic) color illustrations, and includes a chronological listing  as well as alphabetical.<br />A few small quibbles with the format bring my  rating down to four stars: the paper is slightly glossy--it makes the small  color illustrations brighter, but also is harder to write on with a  non-ballpoint pen. The listings include the publishers of each book, but  it's the *British* publishers...although the British publishers are obviously  the first printers of a Dick Francis book, this CheckerBee book, published  and printed in the US, should have at least listed the American Putnam and  Jove editions to aid in novices finding the right edition. Finally,  although the book only goes up to 1998, there's one single blank page  available to fill in &quot;future releases.&quot; That means you could fill  in 1999's &quot;Second Wind&quot; but not his newest book for 2000,  &quot;Shattered.&quot; Three or four extra blank pages would have been a  big help. Still, it's a clever idea that's handy for fans, and even if you  don't care for Dick Francis, there's a whole assortment of CheckerBee  titles that do the same thing for books of V.C. Andrews, Stephen King, Tom  Clancy, Agatha Christie, and many, many more series authors.have been a  big help. Still, it's a clever idea that's handy for fans, and even if you  don't care for Dick Francis, there's a whole assortment of CheckerBee  titles that do the same thing for books of V.C. Andrews, Stephen King, Tom  Clancy, Agatha Christie, and many, many more series authors.	2000-09-08
US	53060078	R2YWNV02E5RQ8G	0810934434	100652287	Hello Kitty, Hello World!	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Around the World with Hello Kitty!	Who *doesn't* love Hello Kitty? Supercute Sanrio cartoon spokeskitten gazes at you with her round black eyes, red bow askew on her left ear, from  thousands of Sanrio products ranging from backpacks and stickers to the  Hello Kitty toaster (highly recommended) and bathmat (almost too cute to  use!) While this isn't Hello Kitty's first foray into the book field, it's  certainly the most attractive.<br />Basically plotless but attractively  designed, each colorful two-page spread takes Hello Kitty from country to  country, dressing her up in native costume (you've not lived until you've  seen Hello Kitty in a Mexican 'Day of the Dead' mask) and showing off  various food, animals, objects and places from that country, and a friendly  way to say &quot;hello!&quot; in that country's language. My only  disappointment? Hello Kitty doesn't visit England (she *lives* there  already, if you follow the Sanrio official backstory).<br />A pronunciation  and translation guide in the back helps you through saying what you've seen  in the book, and punch-out Hello Kitty postcards, luggage tag and bookmark  are a fun extra bonus!<br />The beauty of this book is its dual appeal: not  only will it be fun for very young children to learn about other countries,  but the appeal of the character and her wonderfully simple but  smile-inspiring design has made Hello Kitty the most popular Japanese  import since Godzilla. Whether you enjoy this as a simple kids' book or a  giggle-inspiring camp item, you can't deny the gentle and happy appeal of  Hello Kitty. And hey, it's easier to display on a shelf than that Hello  Kitty vacuum cleaner or the Hello Kitty spatula.	2000-08-17
US	53060078	R380LSO1C6TQ6Y	185998651X	279174072	House at Pooh Corner (Winnie the Pooh)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	The finest Pooh audiocassettes ever recorded!	[This is a review of the Traflagar Square/Hodder-Headline audiocassette version] I learned to read by listening (again and again and again and  again) to a pair of well-loved and well-worn LPs of the Pooh stories read  by Maurice Evans. I always considered them the finest Pooh audiobooks ever  recorded. Up until now! Now there's this wonderful series of  fully-dramatized adventures of Pooh featuring a brilliant cast of wonderful  British actors: Stephen Fry (&quot;Jeeves and Wooster&quot;) as Pooh,  Geoffrey Palmer (&quot;The Madness of King George&quot;) as Eeyore, Judy  Dench (&quot;Shakespeare in Love&quot;) as Kanga...and best of all, the  *incomparable* Jane Horrocks (&quot;Little Voice&quot; and Bubble from  &quot;AbFab&quot;) as a squeaky, alarmed, and altogether adorable Piglet.  You don't have to be a kid to appreciate these fine recordings (and there  are plenty of adult Pooh fans out there who will *love* these versions).  Accept no substitutes: this is simply the finest Pooh audio series yet  created, beating by a *far* distance the Alan Bennett and (ugh!) Charles  Kuralt versions. There's more than just this one tape in the series, too.  The series includes &quot;Tigger Comes to the Forest&quot; (ISBN:  1840322195); &quot;Piglet Meets a Heffalump&quot; (ISBN: 1840320524) and  &quot;Pooh Invents a New Game&quot; (ISBN: 1840322268). Type the 10-digit  ISBN number into the Amazon search field to go directly to the webpages for  these cassettes.	2000-08-16
US	53060078	RQD7Y2HMKW5S4	0375410244	96312554	Flashman and the Tiger	Books	4	21	22	N	N	Flashys back! Lock up your women!	Rogue, coward, lecher, egotist, scoundrel: There was never such a colorful and outrageous character as Harry Flashman in literature (real life, now,  that's another story!). The newest of the cult favorite Flashman Victorian  historical novels is cause for celebration: as before, the irrepressible  George MacDonald Fraser has `discovered' and `edited' Flashman's reminisces  of three of his astounding, wild, and wench-filled adventures: a rematch  against Flashman's nemesis Otto Bismarck (from one of the best of the  Flashman novels, `Royal Flash,' itself a wicked parody of `The Prisoner of  Zenda'), a gambling scandal involving (more deeply than history tells us)  the Prince of Wales, and the one Fraser's fans have been waiting for: the  long-promised encounter with Colonel `Tiger' Moran that casts a very  different light on a certain arrogant Victorian detective and his toadying  medical assistant.<br />Copious historical color and personalities mix  Flashman in with the real-life persons and events of the time (and Fraser's  always witty, thorough footnotes point out just exactly what was going on  in history at the time). I learn more from every Flashman novel about  history and war than I ever did from a textbook, and it's from a man whose  point of view I can't help but admire: a coward who knows how to take  credit where credit isn't due, to never pass up a chance for an amorous  interlude, and that the best way to stay alive is to be miles away when the  shooting starts.<br />Why four stars then, instead of five? The format--three  novellas--is atypical for a Flashman adventure, and one that in my opinion  made the book seem more like leftover pieces of Fraser's work than his  intricate, elaborate full novels. For me, Flashy doesn't quite work as well  in a shorter form: Fraser is a master of a long and involved historical  adventure that builds and builds until it detonates into its cataclysmic  conclusion, leaving no one unscathed except for Flashman, triumphant again.  Even though we get three Flashman adventures, it paradoxically didn't seem  enough. Flashman is larger than life and twice as lecherous; there's enough  material in his history (and more important, Fraser's got the talent) to  give us three different novels here.<br />If you're new to Flashman, try  another of the Fraser books first (&quot;Royal Flash&quot; is always a good  start), and come back to this later. Still, there's more than enough fun  and roguery here to satisfy all but the most finicky Flashman fanatics, and  even a slightly lesser Flash is head and shoulders above the rest. Even  though Flashman would know much better than to stick up his head--unless  they're passing out the booze, of course...mphant again.  Even though we get three Flashman adventures, it paradoxically didn't seem  enough. Flashman is larger than life and twice as lecherous; there's enough  material in his history (and more important, Fraser's got the talent) to  give us three different novels here. <br />If you're new to Flashman, try  another of the Fraser books first (&quot;Royal Flash&quot; is always a good  start), and come back to this later. Still, there's more than enough fun  and roguery here to satisfy all but the most finicky Flashman fanatics, and  even a slightly lesser Flash is head and shoulders above the rest. Even  though Flashman would know much better than to stick up his head--unless  they're passing out the booze, of course...	2000-08-16
US	53060078	R2YQC5M6MWKKFP	0895263092	199196338	The Prisoner of Zenda (Gateway Movie Classics)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Long live the King of swashbuckler novels!	I've long been a fan of Errol Flynn swashbucklers and the classic works of the prolific (and unjustly forgotten) Rafael Sabatini, but if you want the  greatest swashbuckler novel of them all, Anthony Hope's &quot;The Prisoner  of Zenda&quot; is a classic you'll come back to again and again: over a  hundred years after being written, it's still as sharp as a rapier  point.<br />&quot;The Prisoner of Zenda&quot; is something of a rarity: a  Victorian adventure novel that is as fresh and entertaining to read in this  modern jaded age as it was in 1894. If you've ever seen one of the many  movie adaptations you already know the story: Rudolf Rassendyll, an  Englishman vacationing in the tiny European country of Ruritania, meets and  befriends the soon-to-be-crowned King Rudolf--his exact and identical  double. When the King is kidnapped by the dastardly Black Michael,  Rassendyll must impersonate the King in the coronation ceremony...and in the  heart of the Queen. Hope's handling of the romance between Rassendyll and  Queen Flavia is both a daring and romantic love story and a subtle  examination of the meaning of honor and duty to a gentleman. Of course  there's plenty of swordplay and derring-do along the way (put on an Erich  Korngold CD while reading for the best effect). If Tom Clancy was writing  this one, there'd be nuclear weapons instead of swords and email instead of  telegrams, but even he couldn't pull off the simple but subtle romantic  story and the triumphant but poignant ending.<br />If you enjoy this, you'll  also want to read Hope's worthy sequel &quot;Rupert of Hentzau,&quot; which  brings Rassendyll back to Ruritania years later to match wits and swords  with Michael's henchman, bringing an end to the saga so satisfyingly that  there's no need for a third adventure. I loved both but would definitely  rank &quot;Rupert&quot; a level below &quot;Prisoner&quot;:  &quot;Rupert&quot; is narrated by Fritz, the faithful royal retainer from  &quot;Prisoner,&quot; and suffers from much of the action taking place  outside Fritz's personal view and being retold later on. Still, it's a  stunning and emotional end to the story, and one which'll bring a proper  tear to your eye. Like Rudolf of Ruritania, Anthony Hope is a king...of  adventure novels. Unlike Rudolf, he has no equal.&quot; and suffers from much of the action taking place  outside Fritz's personal view and being retold later on. Still, it's a  stunning and emotional end to the story, and one which'll bring a proper  tear to your eye. Like Rudolf of Ruritania, Anthony Hope is a king...of  adventure novels. Unlike Rudolf, he has no equal.	2000-08-16
US	53060078	RYSYBTL5CA5FQ	0452259614	369132556	Flashman: A Novel	Books	5	191	196	N	N	Everything I need to know I learned from Flashman	I discovered and read George MacDonald Fraser's masterful &quot;Flashman&quot; series in my teens (I'm now crouching this side of  forty), at the same time I first read Ian Fleming's James Bond novels.<br />From Bond I've learned how to play baccarat, how to pull an Aston Martin  out of a skid, and how to climb through a tunnel of scorching hot  metal.<br />I have never in my life had to do any of these things.<br />On the  other hand, from Flashman I've learned lessons I use every day of my  life:<br />* When the trouble starts, keep your head down, or better yet, in a  totally different country.<br /> * Never be afraid to accept credit for  something good you did. That goes double for something good you didn't.<br /> * Never volunteer.<br /> * Wine, women, and song? To hell with the  song.<br /> * There's no shame in living as a coward. Beats dying as a hero.<br /> * Always have an escape plan. If not, steal someone else's.<br /><br />Game, set, match: Flashy.	2000-08-16
US	53060078	R37N3C2SEZUZ4I	014043755X	199196338	The Prisoner of Zenda and Rupert of Hentzau (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	44	45	N	N	Long live the King of swashbuckler novels!	[This is a review of the Penguin edition dual-volume of `Prisoner' and `Rupert']<br />I've long been a fan of Errol Flynn swashbucklers and the  classic works of  prolific (and unjustly forgotten) Rafael Sabatini, but if  you want the greatest swashbuckler novel of them all, Anthony Hope's  &quot;The Prisoner of Zenda&quot; is a classic you'll come back to again  and again: over a hundred years after being written, it's still as sharp as  a rapier point.<br />&quot;The Prisoner of Zenda&quot; is something of a  rarity: a Victorian adventure novel that is as fresh and entertaining to  read in this modern jaded age as it was in 1894. If you've ever seen one of  the many movie adaptations you already know the story: Rudolf Rassendyll,  an Englishman vacationing in the tiny European country of Ruritania, meets  and befriends the soon-to-be-crowned King Rudolf--his exact and identical  double. When the King is kidnapped by the dastardly Black Michael,  Rassendyll must impersonate the King in the coronation ceremony...and in the  heart of the Queen. Hope's handling of the romance between Rassendyll and  Queen Flavia is both a daring and romantic love story and a subtle  examination of the meaning of honor and duty to a gentleman. Of course  there's plenty of swordplay and derring-do along the way (put on an Erich  Korngold CD while reading for the best effect). If Tom Clancy was writing  this one, there'd be nuclear weapons instead of swords and email instead of  telegrams, but even he couldn't pull off the simple but subtle romantic  story and the triumphant but poignant ending.<br />I recommend this Penguin  edition especially because unlike any other editions of &quot;The Prisoner  of Zenda&quot; currently available, it also contains Hope's lesser but  still worthy sequel &quot;Rupert of Hentzau,&quot; which brings Rassendyll  back to Ruritania years later to match wits and swords with Michael's  henchman, bringing an end to the saga so satisfyingly that there's no need  for a third adventure. I loved both but would definitely rank  &quot;Rupert&quot; a level below &quot;Prisoner&quot;: &quot;Rupert&quot;  is narrated by Fritz, the faithful royal retainer from  &quot;Prisoner,&quot; and suffers from much of the action taking place  outside Fritz's personal view and being retold later on. Still, it's a  stunning and emotional end to the story, and one which'll bring a proper  tear to your eye. Like Rudolf of Ruritania, Anthony Hope is a king...of  adventure novels. Unlike Rudolf, he has no equal.d  for a third adventure. I loved both but would definitely rank  &quot;Rupert&quot; a level below &quot;Prisoner&quot;: &quot;Rupert&quot;  is narrated by Fritz, the faithful royal retainer from  &quot;Prisoner,&quot; and suffers from much of the action taking place  outside Fritz's personal view and being retold later on. Still, it's a  stunning and emotional end to the story, and one which'll bring a proper  tear to your eye. Like Rudolf of Ruritania, Anthony Hope is a king...of  adventure novels. Unlike Rudolf, he has no equal.	2000-08-16
US	53060078	R2J1TQDIL2NVI8	060980684X	732126132	Freeze My Margarita: A Sam Jones Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Sam Jones is back, and shes got *your* number, mate!	Sam Jones is back! The busty, vibrant, outrageous and unapologetic heroine of &quot;Black Rubber Dress&quot; (think Kelly Brook with a talent for art,  and for witty repartee, for that matter) tackles a series of murders  threatening to shut down a off-West End production of &quot;A Midsummer  Night's Dream.&quot; Sculptor Sam's producing elaborate sculpture mobiles  for the play, but you know her involvement in the production will include  sleuth as well. The London setting, slang, and wild characters all  contribute to the contemporary, modern mood of the mystery, and this is  definitely a heroine-detective for the 21st century. The casual sex and  casual drug use we saw Sam indulge in during &quot;Black Rubber Dress&quot;  is present but *much* understated in &quot;Freeze&quot;-enough to make her  an unorthodox and wild character, not so much that we wonder how she  manages to get through ordinary day-to-day life. And *no*, she's *not* a  dominatrix, as another reviewer suggests. Although the book opens with Sam  in a d/s bar, it's clear she's a bit out of her element (although always  willing to try anything!).<br />As always, the personalities shine more than  the mystery, which takes a definite back seat to such characters as stage  diva Violet, and Sam's newest lust interest, the flamboyant  `is-he-or-isn't-he' Hugo. (Answer: he isn't, as Sam finds out, much to her  pleasure). As I did with &quot;Black Rubber Dress,&quot; I wished the  mystery itself was more developed and less of a casual background to  develop characters. Perhaps taking Sam out of her familiar London and into  the art scene of New York will add a few twists in her third mystery,  &quot;The Strawberry Tattoo,&quot; coming this fall.<br />For those who think  British mysteries must be either hardboiled police procedurals set in  Manchester or `Oh dear, the vicar's been murdered in the drawing room  during tea time,' try this series: definitely unorthodox, reflecting the  young urban London of today, with a great heroine, sharply drawn supporting  cast, and sprightly realistic dialogue. Like Sam itself, this mystery is  vibrant, flirtatious, witty, and above all, fun.of today, with a great heroine, sharply drawn supporting  cast, and sprightly realistic dialogue. Like Sam itself, this mystery is  vibrant, flirtatious, witty, and above all, fun.	2000-08-16
US	53060078	R33HN6YWBTZH25	0380810514	317491883	Man of Two Worlds:: My Life in Science Fiction and Comics	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Entertaining and anecdotal memoirs of a comic-book great	There's so many young new artists and writers in the comic book industry  today, some of them great, some of them derivative, but each time I check  out a hotshot young or new talent I find myself wondering: will this guy be  around in fifty years? Will his *work* be remembered past next year's  &quot;Wizard&quot; Comics Year in Review? Here's one guy who is: Julius  Schwartz, pioneering founder of organized science fiction fandom as well as  creator of some of the greatest and most influential DC comic book stories  (and characters) that still resonate with today's fans. In today's  overactive SF world it's hard to realize there was once a time when  organized fandom was just a dream, but Julie's (as a long-time fan and  reader of comics, I feel I can call him Julie!) humorous and  celebrity-filled reminiscences take us inside those early days of the  Golden Age of science fiction. I thought I knew a lot of anecdotes about  this era, but Julie's humorous sidebars fill me in on a lot of fun trivia:  Bob Kane and Bill Finger (&quot;Batman&quot;), Will Eisner (&quot;The  Spirit&quot;) and Stan Lee (Marvel Comics) all went to the same high  school; how Marvel's &quot;Fantastic Four&quot; was inspired by a golf game  in which Marvel head Martin Goodman had with the head of DC; why Neil  Adams's pencils on Elliot S! Maggin's debut story at DC were uninked; and  the inside story of my favorite Superman story of all time, 1986's  &quot;Whatever Happened to the Man of Tomorrow?&quot; written by Alan  Moore. A fast read, and somewhat sketchy--I would have liked to hear more  about Julie's family and personal life, and the entire  science-fiction/fandom world of the era, but after all, it *is* his book,  and it *is* subtitled &quot;My Life In Science Fiction and Comics.&quot;  As well as being an entertaining look inside the genesis of some of my  favorite comic book characters and stories, Julie's trademark mantra is  still the most important instruction in the comic book industry: a simple  two-word lesson that a lot of those hotshot young writers and artists would  do well to heed: BE ORIGINAL.ndustry: a simple  two-word lesson that a lot of those hotshot young writers and artists would  do well to heed: BE ORIGINAL.	2000-08-14
US	53060078	R1UJR5UTM852WH	1576770524	413274837	The Pink Hotel Burns Down: A Collection of Rare & Unreleased Material	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Firesign fan? Youve got to have this!	Sure, every fan of the groundbreaking comedy troupe The Firesign Theater  is glad they're still in business, making great new albums for Rhino...but  what about the old stuff that never appeared on their albums, classic  routines we've only heard about? If you're a Firesign completist,  especially of material from their glory days of the 1970s, you *must* have  this album. It's not linear as a classic FT album is--this consists of  early sketches and live performances by the guys, brief improv pieces, and  even their classic and long-unheard radio spots for Jack Poet Volkswagen!  While Firesign fanatics will recognize in these pieces the seeds of such  albums as &quot;In the Next World You're On Your Own&quot; and &quot;Don't  Crush That Dwarf,&quot; the highlight is a long Sherlock Holmes parody  (genesis for the classic &quot;Giant Rat of Sumatra&quot; album) that pays  homage and tribute to the surrealistic British cult radio comedy &quot;The  Goon Show,&quot; right down to a Spike Milligan reference. As a Milligan  *and* Firesign fan, this entire piece, unpolished as it is, is bliss to me.  By no means should this be your *first* exposure to FT--it's a collection  of unreleased pieces, and doesn't have the polished brilliance of  &quot;true&quot; albums like their classic &quot;How Can You Be in Two  Places at Once...&quot; or &quot;Don't Crush That Dwarf...&quot;...but one  you're hooked, tune in and go forward into the past for a great peek  between the &quot;official&quot; record releases to see the FT that was,  and which has remained in hiding...until now.	2000-08-14
US	53060078	R1N9U60FS9SCR	1576771032	413274837	Pink Hotel Burns Down	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A Firesign fan? Youve got to have this!	Sure, every fan of the groundbreaking comedy troupe The Firesign Theater  is glad they're still in business, making great new albums for Rhino...but  what about the old stuff that never appeared on their albums, classic  routines we've only heard about? If you're a Firesign completist,  especially of material from their glory days of the 1970s, you *must* have  this album. It's not linear as a classic FT album is--this consists of  early sketches and live performances by the guys, brief improv pieces, and  even their classic and long-unheard radio spots for Jack Poet Volkswagen!  While Firesign fanatics will recognize in these pieces the seeds of such  albums as &quot;In the Next World You're On Your Own&quot; and &quot;Don't  Crush That Dwarf,&quot; the highlight is a long Sherlock Holmes parody  (genesis for the classic &quot;Giant Rat of Sumatra&quot; album) that pays  homage and tribute to the surrealistic British cult radio comedy &quot;The  Goon Show,&quot; right down to a Spike Milligan reference. As a Milligan  *and* Firesign fan, this entire piece, unpolished as it is, is bliss to me.  By no means should this be your *first* exposure to FT--it's a collection  of unreleased pieces, and doesn't have the polished brilliance of  &quot;true&quot; albums like their classic &quot;How Can You Be in Two  Places at Once...&quot; or &quot;Don't Crush That Dwarf...&quot;...but one  you're hooked, tune in and go forward into the past for a great peek  between the &quot;official&quot; record releases to see the FT that was,  and which has remained in hiding...until now.	2000-08-14
US	53060078	RUTVY9PFABDKO	0684856816	800344209	A Twist at the End : A Novel of O. Henry	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Solid historical mystery; weak ending	Sure, you all know `The Gift of the Magi' and know that O. Henry is  renowned for stories with `A Twist at the End.' But William Sydney Porter  (O. Henry's real name) lived a life as intriguing and filled with twists as  many of the characters in his hundreds of classic stories. Steven Saylor's  historical mystery is an attempt to fill in some of the blanks, involving  Porter in an actual serial murder mystery that took place in Austin, Texas  in the mid-1880s. Saylor, best known for his ancient Rome historical  mysteries, does a credible job: the Austin historical color brings life  into the plot, although too often Porter is secondary to the events and  other characters circling around him. Although many other reviewers have  compared this to Caleb Carr's excellent period mysteries, I was reminded  more of mystery novels starring real historical figures (Eleanor Roosevelt,  Jane Austen, Groucho Marx) tackling fictional mysteries, or  already-established fictional detectives (Sherlock Holmes or Ellery Queen  solving the Jack the Ripper murder, Columbo cracking the JFK  assassination). Saylor's attempt to mix a real historical person with a  true unsolved crime is fresh, although his denouement is weak: the solution  comes as no surprise to any of us, and `the twist at the end' was  foreshadowed chapters before. Still, it's an enjoyable, well-written  mystery with solid characterization, and I'd love to see Saylor tackle a  similar book again--but I hope that he doesn't turn this into a series of  `O. Henry' mysteries! The very best thing that can be said about this  novel? I came away from it with a desire to re-read all the old O. Henry  stories that I enjoyed in college but haven't picked up since. Although  Saylor's a deft hand at setting scene and presenting rogues, he takes a  definite back seat to the master himself. If only the *complete* O. Henry  were in print! (The complete stories would make an excellent Library of  America two-volume set!)	2000-08-09
US	53060078	R1098PJVUNWVZ7	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A dark story for Harry--but a great one for us!	&quot;Wow.&quot; That was the one word I could get out after finishing and finally closing the covers of the massive and long-awaited &quot;Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire.&quot; It was everything I've been eagerly  waiting for and *more*, and not just because of its hefty 734-page length.  I *won't* summarize the plot here in my review--there are just too many  delights, shocks, and surprises that you should discover yourself. This is  by far the most involved, detailed, and most of all *dark* Harry Potter  novel--Harry's life becomes far more complicated, with friendship problems,  romantic difficulties, and far more deadly threats to his life and  happiness than ever before. But don't be put off: there's as much of the  usual fun, silliness, and delight to J.K. Rowling's wonderful writing that  definitely had me laughing out loud even in some of the darker moments.  Rowling has planned the general structure of her entire seven-book saga  beforehand, and it shows in the care and attention to details that pick up  plotlines and characters from previous books (Tom Riddle, Dobby the  House-Elf, Sirius Black) and take them in dramatic and exciting directions,  as well as adding innovative twists and startling new characters ranging  from the frightening to the humorous. As great as the first books were,  Book Four is more mature, more involved, and more personal. She has, with  this book, taken the Harry Potter saga halfway through its full  seven-volume story, and I found myself thinking of another favorite saga:  conceived as a single structure but broken into parts that captured the  imaginations and hearts of kids and adults around the world: The &quot;Star  Wars&quot; movies. And what is generally considered the best of all the  Star Wars movies?--the *middle* one, &quot;The Empire Strikes Back.&quot;  On the 20th anniversary of that, my favorite Star Wars movie, I sat and  read the new Harry Potter, halfway through Harry's saga, and was amazed at  how much it reminded me of &quot;Empire,&quot; not specifically in plot but  rather in theme. At the end of both &quot;Harry IV&quot; and  &quot;Empire,&quot; the villain has shown himself to be more powerful than  imagined, our heroes have suffered a serious blow, and dark, dark times are  coming. We know they'll triumph...but half the fun is accompanying them on  their adventures. We know how it all worked out for Luke Skywalker...and I  can't wait to see how it will come out for Harry Potter. I'm already  counting the days until Book Five, but in the meantime I think I'll read  Books One through Four all over again. Harry Potter is not likely to look  back on his fourth year at Hogwart's will much fondness...but I, and his  millions of fans, *will*.t reminded me of &quot;Empire,&quot; not specifically in plot but  rather in theme. At the end of both &quot;Harry IV&quot; and  &quot;Empire,&quot; the villain has shown himself to be more powerful than  imagined, our heroes have suffered a serious blow, and dark, dark times are  coming. We know they'll triumph...but half the fun is accompanying them on  their adventures. We know how it all worked out for Luke Skywalker...and I  can't wait to see how it will come out for Harry Potter. I'm already  counting the days until Book Five, but in the meantime I think I'll read  Books One through Four all over again. Harry Potter is not likely to look  back on his fourth year at Hogwart's will much fondness...but I, and his  millions of fans, *will*.	2000-07-09
US	53060078	R2BN4AGFPVXDSS	0671036009	587163257	Rough Trails (Star Trek: New Earth, Book 3)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A different focus: Chekov &amp; Co. take the spotlight	I've been following Pocket Books' &quot;Star Trek&quot; publishing program  closely since &quot;The Entropy Effect,&quot; and it's interesting to  consider the editorial changes in the series since then. For the longest  time Pocket seemed to publish books that focused strictly on the main  characters of Kirk, Spock, and McCoy (or Picard, Worf, and Data).  Adventures which explored the Trek universe from other points of view and  introduced new characters or featured the supporting casts were few and far  between (a couple excellent exceptions being John Ford's &quot;The Final  Reflection&quot; and Diane Duane's &quot;My Enemy, My Ally&quot;).  Disgruntled Trek authors have even complained that their books were  rewritten in order to place the focus more squarely on Kirk and Spock. I'm  happy to say that all of that has changed dramatically over the past couple  years. Sure, every other month there's a standard Kirk or Picard book, but  now there's also such unconventional adventures as Peter David's excellent  Excalibur/Calhoun series and *this* new entry in the &quot;Star Trek: New  Earth&quot; series. The focus this time is on Chekov, Sulu, Uhura, Scotty,  and Janice Rand, and I enjoyed the exploration of their personalities and  quirks in a tale where they weren't overshadowed by Kirk and Spock. The  entire &quot;New Earth&quot; saga so far has proven to be unconventional  and compelling in its approach, and although there are some minor problems  here (background characters on the radiation-blasted Belle Terre come and  go without much effect, and L.A. Graf's action scenes tend to happen very  suddenly, followed by chapter after chapter of making you wait for the  *next* action sequence), this is another strong entry that I have to  recommend for those fans who enjoy our &quot;second bananas&quot; and think  they warrant an adventure of their own. The whole &quot;New Earth&quot;  concept has so much promise that I'm glad each contributing author has  taken a different approach; I'm looking forward to the last three books in  the series--actually there's enough material and story potential in the  concept for even a few more books beyond that!fferent approach; I'm looking forward to the last three books in  the series--actually there's enough material and story potential in the  concept for even a few more books beyond that!	2000-07-07
US	53060078	R3QTUKR6KG9CER	0385327242	990444307	Akiko on the Planet Smoo	Books	2	8	14	N	N	A big disappointment after the excellent comic book	I've been a huge fan of Mark Crilley's whimsical and beautifully-drawn &quot;Akiko&quot; comic books (also available in graphic novel collections), so I was definitely interested to see if he could capture the  same fun and fanciful storyline in this version, his first prose young  adult novel. Unfortunately, it doesn't translate well. The characters and  situations are still great, but Crilley's very flat and dull prose doesn't  have the scope to inspire the same amusement and sense of wonder that the  illustrations of his comic version do.  I found myself flipping absently  through the novel just to look at the illustrations he's provided here--by  far the best part of the book. Akiko is still the same spunky 10-year old  Japanese-American girl, but her first person narration is unanimated and  uninspiring. Worst yet: the novel ends, not even with a cliffhanger, but  with a flat &quot;To Be Continued&quot;...the quest Akiko and Company have  started never even really gets underway--this story is *not* complete.  That's a cheap trick to play on a kid (or even an adult!) who's read your  book so far. Sure, Crilley ends his graphic novel collections on similar  minor cliffhangers, but what works well in the serialized, monthly comic  book adventures is hard to swallow in a novel from which you expect a full,  complete story. Granted, I'm an adult reading a kid's book, so I may be  being too critical, but I think writers like Lemony Snicket, Philip Pullman  and J.K. Rowling have more than proven kid's lit can intrigue, amuse, and  inspire adults without talking down to kids. What's *good* about this book?  The wonderful illustrations, the theme of sticking by your friends, the  likeable heroine Akiko who's a bit unsure of herself but always willing to  do what's right and stand up to her fears. But you can get all those  aspects--in a much more entertaining style--in the graphic novel reprints  of the comic book version. To find them, click on the &quot;All Books by  Mark Crilley&quot; link or enter the ISBN #s (1579890091, 1579890199, and  1579890237) in the Amazon search field. In other words, Mark Crilley has  created a wonderful character and fun concept...but this prose novel  execution is not the best way to read it.Mark Crilley&quot; link or enter the ISBN #s (1579890091, 1579890199, and  1579890237) in the Amazon search field. In other words, Mark Crilley has  created a wonderful character and fun concept...but this prose novel  execution is not the best way to read it.	2000-07-07
US	53060078	R3AVV21RSXM6JN	0761521356	938278047	Create Your First Mac Web Page In a Weekend	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Strong Mac instruction with some minor flaws	[This is a review of the *Macintosh* version, &quot;Create Your First Mac Web Page on a Weekend&quot;] There's far too little devoted specifically to the Macintosh end of computing, so I was happy to see this book address a  project I've always wanted to start: creating my first webpage, but *not*  on a dreaded Windows machine! I'm pleased to say the book is exactly as  advertised...by the end of a weekend I'd created and posted a simple but  effective website on AOL. Step-by-step exercises take you through the  various aspects of coding, assuming no previous knowledge, and a simple but  effective process of typing a few lines of code, and then checking it in  your web browser to see the instantaneous results, gives you good feedback  and instant gratification to see what you're learning. Calihan covers  text-based HTML as well as an overview of using Adobe PageMill 3.0, and a  decent general look at the mechanics of a basic and effective website (rule  #1: always plan your website's structure before you start coding...I learned  this the hard way!) An enclosed CD-ROM contains all the software tools  you'll need plus numerous coding examples, website templates, images, clip  art and backgrounds to get your started. The basic structure of the book  breaks your work into easy-to-handle weekend segments (Friday night,  Saturday morning, Saturday afternoon, etc.) so you can go into work on  Monday and tell your friends to look at your new website. A number of minor  flaws take a couple points away from my praise: 1) There's no general  overview or review of what you have learned and where it has gotten you at  the end of each chapter or session--a point by point recap, with a review  table of the coding you've learned, would have been much appreciated. 2)  There's no appendix or pull-out reference chart of the various coding  you've just learned...to remember what you need to type, you have to page  back through the chapters. (There are several *other* books that feature  such charts or pull-outs, but the inclusion of one in this volume would  have been a big help). 3) The most grievous problem: a number of typos in  the coding examples themselves might have you scratching your head  wondering what you did wrong. I finally figured out there were missing  proper end paragraph codes at the end of examples on page 51 and 60, for  example. For Mac users who get frustrated at Windows-centric manuals, this  *is* a solid book, but it needs some improvements and corrections. Version  2.0 anyone?e  such charts or pull-outs, but the inclusion of one in this volume would  have been a big help). 3) The most grievous problem: a number of typos in  the coding examples themselves might have you scratching your head  wondering what you did wrong. I finally figured out there were missing  proper end paragraph codes at the end of examples on page 51 and 60, for  example. For Mac users who get frustrated at Windows-centric manuals, this  *is* a solid book, but it needs some improvements and corrections. Version  2.0 anyone?	2000-07-06
US	53060078	R348D81436V3KP	0380814676	109367217	Mike Nelson's Movie Megacheese	Books	5	53	67	N	N	Mike Nelson loves movies--just not *these* movies.	No, not Mike Nelson from &quot;Sea Hunt,&quot; played by Lloyd Bridges (that might actually make an interesting book, although I'd guess each film review would have, about halfway through, the words &quot;By this time, my lungs were aching for air.&quot;) but Mike Nelson from &quot;Mystery Science Theater 3000.&quot; Now why would a guy whose previous job consisted of watching really, really bad movies and making humorous comments on them take on a *second* job...consisting of watching really, really bad movies and making humorous comments on them? What's the difference? Well, a much bigger budget, for one. Not necessarily for Mike (although if I had my way I'd personally hand him one fresh crisp dollar bill for each and every time I snorted or guffawed out loud reading this book on the subway). I mean bigger budgets for the *movies* he's reviewing/skewering: bloated, mega-million-dollar studio crap like &quot;Wild Things,&quot; &quot;Independence Day,&quot; &quot;You've Got Mail,&quot; and &quot;Lost in Space.&quot; Be assured: this is not movie criticism of the type you expect from Roger, Rex, or that guy with the Brillo hair. Sure, he attacks the easy targets: the Baldwins, Joe Eszterhas, Brando, Pamela Lee...but hey, who *hasn't*? What's different between Mike Nelson and you and me sitting on a couch yakking about movies is that Mike is actually *funny*. Imagine if Dave Barry wrote movie reviews. Okay, now imagine that Dave Barry, Dave Barry's fans, and Mike Nelson himself won't want to hunt me down and string me up me for that analogy. But it's a similar off-hand, sarcastic, &quot;normal-guy&quot; tone with lots of jokey asides and a never-ending disdain for the lack of intelligence Hollywood has (or thinks we have). Mike asks the hard questions Siskel and Ebert never addressed: In &quot;The Bridges of Madison Country,&quot; why on earth would Meryl Streep find bathing in Clint Eastwood's backwash erotic? Why does &quot;Face/Off&quot; have a &quot;/&quot; in the title? And why Bruce Willis? (Why? Why?) And it's hard not to agree with his well-argued thesis that, for the sake of all humanity, Jim Carrey must be destroyed. It's the perfect antidote to the big blockbuster movie season, and I can only hope that a sequel is due soon, `coz the quicker Mike writes about &quot;Gladiator,&quot; &quot;Frequency,&quot; and &quot;X-Men,&quot; the sooner I can find something to dull the memory of those six hours in my life. So, buy Mike's book if you want to laugh out loud more than you ever thought about the excesses of Hollywood. Mike has made me look at movies in a whole new way.  Well, actually, that's a lie: I still think about movies in the same old way: as overblown, overstuffed billion-dollar ego-trips that amuse and pacify me because of their hypnotic flickering movements. But hey, at least *I* spent my hard-earned 15 bucks on this book rather than seeing &quot;M:I 2&quot; 1.58 times. You know who you are. If you just walked out of &quot;The Flintstones in Viva Rock Vegas&quot; thinking, &quot;Well, that was kind of fun,&quot; then run, don't walk, folks, to get this book, and *fast*.e title? And why Bruce Willis? (Why? Why?) And it's hard not to agree with his well-argued thesis that, for the sake of all humanity, Jim Carrey must be destroyed. It's the perfect antidote to the big blockbuster movie season, and I can only hope that a sequel is due soon, `coz the quicker Mike writes about &quot;Gladiator,&quot; &quot;Frequency,&quot; and &quot;X-Men,&quot; the sooner I can find something to dull the memory of those six hours in my life. So, buy Mike's book if you want to laugh out loud more than you ever thought about the excesses of Hollywood. Mike has made me look at movies in a whole new way.  Well, actually, that's a lie: I still think about movies in the same old way: as overblown, overstuffed billion-dollar ego-trips that amuse and pacify me because of their hypnotic flickering movements. But hey, at least *I* spent my hard-earned 15 bucks on this book rather than seeing &quot;M:I 2&quot; 1.58 times. You know who you are. If you just walked out of &quot;The Flintstones in Viva Rock Vegas&quot; thinking, &quot;Well, that was kind of fun,&quot; then run, don't walk, folks, to get this book, and *fast*.	2000-06-27
US	53060078	RURRRRPHVLAXP	0399146148	51614271	DoubleShot: The New James Bond Adventure	Books	2	2	5	N	N	Benson gives 007 a headache...and me, too.	After a book like his abysmal &quot;High Time to Kill,&quot; I normally wouldn't have given Raymond Benson a second chance...but hey, it *is* James Bond, after all--Fleming's creation has survived much worse.  &quot;Doubleshot&quot; is a decent improvement on Benson's last Bond novel  and shows a creative and innovative psychologically-driven plot, but the  action is again dull and predictable and Bond is rendered virtually  impotent of his action capabilities. What Benson tries to do here is more  interesting and promising than his former work: a psychological mystery in  which Bond, suffering from trauma headaches and frequent blackouts, is  unsure of his actions: did he actually kill the beautiful doctor with whom  he'd just made love? Is he being followed or just paranoid? An original  idea, perhaps, but unfortunately this plot weakens rather than humanizes  Bond. He spends the entire novel reacting to events rather than initiating  the action, and Benson ends so many chapters with 007 falling into a black  unconsciousness that it verges on sadism. In the end it's revealed [SPOILER  ALERT] that the criminal mastermind has tampered with 007's nerve  medication, making him paranoid and panicky--a development that recalls  Bond's brainwashing in &quot;The Man with the Golden Gun&quot; (one of  Fleming's weaker entries, I feel). Benson's writing still seems too sloppy  and American to me (mint tea is described as &quot;way too sweet for his  tastes&quot;), and he has a tendency to pepper his action sequences with  exclamation points (&quot;He had caught the terrorist!&quot; &quot;[I]t was  the Union's building that had been bombed!&quot;). There are moments when  Bond's dialogue doesn't even *sound* like Bond: world-hardened 007 is not a  man who would stumble or hesitate over a euphemism for a man's death like  &quot;He's, uhm, no longer with us.&quot; Finally, Benson has never  impressed me with his pacing or tension: the final action climax, the scene  of which is set in the prologue, takes all of a page and a half (and six  real-time seconds) to unfold. On the positive side, Benson has a strong  command of the &quot;Fleming Sweep&quot;--the casual but vital examinations  of the brand-names and fine qualities of Bond's clothing, weaponry, drinks,  and haunts (he frequently opens a chapter with a well-turned descriptive  paragraph of an exotic location that reads like a good travel book). I only  wish he could reproduce and build upon the thrills, characterization, and  action of the better Fleming books as well. Now don't get me wrong--I'm not  saying that Benson must write in precisely the Fleming style, or that Bond  can't evolve for the twenty-first century...that stagnation would make him a  much less interesting character. But Benson's Bond seems often sketchy and  constructed from a few quirks and character traits with his background and  motivation reliant upon us, the readers and Bond fans, to fill in what we  know about Bond from previous novels. That's just plain sloppy. Will I read  another Benson Bond next year? Probably...I like Bond too much to give up on  him. But I'm sincerely hoping the &quot;franchise&quot; is in someone  else's hands next year. Raymond Benson gave James Bond a headache  throughout this whole novel. He gave me one too.s set in the prologue, takes all of a page and a half (and six  real-time seconds) to unfold. On the positive side, Benson has a strong  command of the &quot;Fleming Sweep&quot;--the casual but vital examinations  of the brand-names and fine qualities of Bond's clothing, weaponry, drinks,  and haunts (he frequently opens a chapter with a well-turned descriptive  paragraph of an exotic location that reads like a good travel book). I only  wish he could reproduce and build upon the thrills, characterization, and  action of the better Fleming books as well. Now don't get me wrong--I'm not  saying that Benson must write in precisely the Fleming style, or that Bond  can't evolve for the twenty-first century...that stagnation would make him a  much less interesting character. But Benson's Bond seems often sketchy and  constructed from a few quirks and character traits with his background and  motivation reliant upon us, the readers and Bond fans, to fill in what we  know about Bond from previous novels. That's just plain sloppy. Will I read  another Benson Bond next year? Probably...I like Bond too much to give up on  him. But I'm sincerely hoping the &quot;franchise&quot; is in someone  else's hands next year. Raymond Benson gave James Bond a headache  throughout this whole novel. He gave me one too.	2000-06-23
US	53060078	RYMA4NYMGP0LX	0785106669	636736159	The Essential Fantastic Four Volume 1	Books	5	34	35	N	N	Essential? You bet!	Both Marvel and DC Comics have been reprinting their classic tales, making them affordable and accessible to modern collectors, but Marvel deserves an  extra kudos for their exceptional &quot;Essentials&quot; series which  reprint entire runs of 20-or-so comics from Marvel's Silver Age in a  black-and-white &quot;phone book&quot; format (no doubt inspired by Dave  Sim's massive collections of &quot;Cerebus&quot; comics). How innovative  are these first FF comics? Picture the early 1960s, where a superhero team  comic meant the rather whitebread &quot;Justice League of America&quot;  from DC...classic stories, of course, but somewhat lacking in scope and  character development. Enter Stan Lee and Jack Kirby's first Marvel Comic:  the heroes don't wear costumes (not until the third issue, at least),  squabble and fight (not unlike a real family) and face truly hideous and  grotesque monsters of true nightmare quality. Reading these stories I'm  often surprised at the sheer amount of plot and action that Lee and Kirby  manage to squeeze into a couple dozen pages for each story...although this is  slightly before the incredibly innovative period of Kirby's blockbuster,  knock-you-out layouts, there's still, for want of a better phrase,  &quot;never a dull moment.&quot; This book, and others created by Lee and  Kirby and the other great artists of early Marvel, created comics that  inspired a whole new wave in the industry. This isn't the single greatest  Fantastic Four period--Kirby's knock-out run beginning around FF #45 and  including the mind-blowing Galactus Trilogy is yet to come--but it's an  absolute must-have for anyone who professes to love comics. Finally, *very*  high praise for the Essentials series in and of itself: I've always wanted  to read *all* these stories, not just the few that get often reprinted in  other formats (FF #1, 5), and this is simply the best way to read a couple  years worth of continuity at an exceptionally affordable price. Sure, these  are reprinted in black and white rather than the original color, but that's  a minor problem-Kirby's art is as dynamic and innovative even without  colors. The &quot;Essentials&quot; series is a re-publishing program that  is much needed, and I hope it continues (how about a collection of  Ant-Man/Wasp stories? John Byrne's run on FF? Gulacy's Master of Kung Fu?).  Although DC has made enormous strides in re-presenting their classic works  for a modern audience in their Archives editions and the Millennium comic  books, Marvel has shown that it can and will cover all ends of the market  with comic book format reprints, color graphic novel compilations, their  pricier color Masterworks collections, and these accessibly-priced and  aptly-named Essentials. There's only one thing Marvel could do better: add  a &quot;created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby&quot; line to every Fantastic  Four comic, giving homage and credit where credit's due to not only Stan  the Man but the one and only King of Comics.e  are reprinted in black and white rather than the original color, but that's  a minor problem-Kirby's art is as dynamic and innovative even without  colors. The &quot;Essentials&quot; series is a re-publishing program that  is much needed, and I hope it continues (how about a collection of  Ant-Man/Wasp stories? John Byrne's run on FF? Gulacy's Master of Kung Fu?).  Although DC has made enormous strides in re-presenting their classic works  for a modern audience in their Archives editions and the Millennium comic  books, Marvel has shown that it can and will cover all ends of the market  with comic book format reprints, color graphic novel compilations, their  pricier color Masterworks collections, and these accessibly-priced and  aptly-named Essentials. There's only one thing Marvel could do better: add  a &quot;created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby&quot; line to every Fantastic  Four comic, giving homage and credit where credit's due to not only Stan  the Man but the one and only King of Comics.	2000-06-22
US	53060078	R84O5AEBFU4P4	0375402187	846506262	Groucho: The Life and Times of Julius Henry Marx	Books	3	25	26	N	N	Yes, I'm a Marxist!	As a Marx Brothers fan, I've purchased and read many of the biographies/critiques of Groucho and Bros. (and there are a *lot* of them!), and I found this to be one of the most entertaining. We've reached  the point in history where first-hand biographies can no longer be  written--most of Groucho's friends, collaborators, and family are dead, so  Kanfer's is likely the first of books that will study Groucho from a more  historical perspective, using newspaper articles, movie reviews, and the  books that have gone before (Kanfer points out, a little defensively for my  tastes, that Groucho told so many tall tales you couldn't take first-person  testimony at face value anyway).  &quot;Groucho&quot; makes for an  effective (if somewhat detached) bio: overall quite entertaining, not  skimping on Marx's low points and somewhat pessimistic worldview as well as  his more familiar triumphs. By all accounts, including this one, Groucho  was not a guy you'd want to pal around with unless you had the sharpest wit  (and even then he'd dislike any attempt to outshine him), and Kanfer does a  credible job of portraying Groucho's sourness as well as handling a  controversial subject: just how badly Groucho was treated by women in his  later years (and to be perfectly fair, his less-than-stellar treatment *of*  women throughout his whole life). I have to praise an aspect of this book  not many other reviewers have mentioned: it is immensely funny, not because  Kanfer is a humorous writer, but because he has the good sense to  occasionally step aside and recount some of Groucho's funniest lines or  dialogue. Still, the occasional sloppiness in writing and editing (as  mentioned by other Amazon reviewers) did make me scowl once in a while as I  read it. I wouldn't call this the definite Groucho bio-- but it's an  entertaining read and a decent synthesis of the many books I've read before  with a slightly fresh spin. Still, given Groucho's disarming, misleading  wit about anything personal, can there *ever be* a definitive bio? I'm  eagerly awaiting Simon Louvish's &quot;Monkey Business&quot;--given his  excellent *and* entertaining W.C. Fields bio, perhaps it's Louvish who can  best do justice to the Marxes--but with this enigmatic cult icon whose  greasepaint mustache and quick words hid a much more complex man, I  wouldn't be surprised if Groucho's up there having a good old laugh on all  of us who are trying to analyze his wit rather than just enjoy it.sonal, can there *ever be* a definitive bio? I'm  eagerly awaiting Simon Louvish's &quot;Monkey Business&quot;--given his  excellent *and* entertaining W.C. Fields bio, perhaps it's Louvish who can  best do justice to the Marxes--but with this enigmatic cult icon whose  greasepaint mustache and quick words hid a much more complex man, I  wouldn't be surprised if Groucho's up there having a good old laugh on all  of us who are trying to analyze his wit rather than just enjoy it.	2000-06-12
US	53060078	R36E0JE7106C9H	1576771474	656781265	Nick Danger: The Daily Feed Tapes	Books	4	29	29	N	N	The return of America's ONLY detective!	If you're a fan of the Firesign Theatre, then the name Nick Danger (or, if you're reading it from inside his frosted-glass door, Regnad Kcin) will  sock you between the eyes like the kiss at the end of a hot fist! This is a  large collection of short-short radio bits from 1988-1990 by Phil Austin,  resurrecting the famous &quot;Nick Danger, Third Eye&quot; private  detective character from Firesign's classic (some might say best) album  &quot;How Can You Be In Two Places At Once When You're Not Anywhere At  All?&quot; The original Nick Danger, Third Eye piece was a half-hour  metaphysical spoof of 1940s hard-boiled detectives--with time travel,  Beatles references, and some clever use of the vinyl LP format (a character  leaps from one side of the record to the other). This set of two CDs  follows in the steps of that classic piece in a slightly different format:  dozens of 1- to 2-minute audio monologues by Austin as Nick Danger,  produced for a radio syndication show in the late 1980s. While some of the  pieces are episodic and follow in sequence (Nick tries to track down a  sober Republican, has a tiny adventure in a HO-scale village, wrestles with  a leprechaun intent on selling Nick Danger merchandise), many others are  more straight-forward (but still offbeat and frequently hilarious)  commentary on modern life, which reminded me of Ian Shoales's &quot;I Gotta  Go&quot; spoken through the mouth of a hard-boiled dick. The pieces come  fast and furious, so even if one sags then next one is bound to amuse. If  you've never heard of Nick Danger, make &quot;How Can You Be In Two Places  At Once...&quot; your first buy, but follow it up with this. A few cautions:  none of the other Firesign Theatre members take part in these recordings.  It's just Phil Austin, narrating and doing all the voices. It's a great  format, but might disappoint those fans hoping to hear classic Danger  characters like Inspector Bradshaw and Nancy. Second, there are so many  short-short pieces on each CD that they can seem overwhelming if you listen  to them all at once. I recommend short listening sessions.ces on each CD that they can seem overwhelming if you listen  to them all at once. I recommend short listening sessions.	2000-06-09
US	53060078	R2C7ZV1QX1HB5Y	186092008X	917041217	The Judge's House (Travelman Suspense)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Classic story, fun format, but pricey	I first discovered the Travelman series of book pamphlets in anewsstand in London's Paddington Station...the size and shape of apaper road map, these are an ideal and absolutely unique format for reading while you commute on the subway, bus, or train. They're much easier to use (and more entertaining!) than any road map I've ever handled, however...they unfold easily bit-by-bit, never awkwardly, and each contains a classic short story. Bram Stoker's &quot;The Judge's House&quot; is a classic Victorian-era ghost story heavy on atmosphere and foreshadowing--and rats.  Is the ancient, rat-infested home that Malcolm Malcolmson is renting actually haunted by the vengeful spirit of a hanging judge? (Well, it wouldn't be much of a Stoker story if it weren't, would it?) The Travelman format is ideal for a half-hour commute and the unique concept will have your fellow travelers asking what you're reading and where you got that interesting looking mini-book. There are many more in the series available in the US, including stories by P.G. Wodehouse, Arthur Conan Doyle, Ruth Rendell, Ian Fleming, Dorothy Parker, Roald Dahl and Oscar Wilde... the format is fun, and they make great literary gifts.	2000-05-24
US	53060078	R232C19DEIMLQF	0397300131	859647159	Doctor Dolittle in the Moon	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A fantasy classic and well ahead of its time	The movie musical version of &quot;Doctor Dolittle&quot; was on cable this weekend, and after cringing a bit at Rex Harrison's portrayal of the Doctor (about as faithful to the book as Julie Andrews was to P.L. Travers's  original Mary Poppins), I pulled down several of my Hugh Lofting classics  to remember why I loved these books so much. You probably know the general  story: the adventures of an English animal doctor who learns the language  of the animals. All of these books are great (start with &quot;The Voyages  of Doctor Dolittle&quot; or &quot;The Story of Doctor Dolittle&quot;) but  &quot;Doctor Dolittle in the Moon&quot; was always my favorite as a kid,  and I'm please to say it holds up extraordinarily well reading it in my  late thirties! The adventure is continued in part from the previous book,  &quot;Doctor Dolittle's Garden,&quot; but you don't have to read that book  at all to get right into the action: the good doctor is already on his way  to the moon, on the back of a giant moth (it's not as silly as it sounds),  along with faithful companions the parrot Polynesia and the monkey  Chim-Chim--plus a stowaway, the Doctor's prot&eacute;g&eacute; and apprentice, Tommy  Stubbins. They discover on the moon's dark side a fantastic world of  giant--and talking--plants, weird creatures, and the mythical,  millenniums-old Man in the Moon. I'm not *at all* doing justice to  this--the setting is moody, spooky, even a little chilling, and always  exciting--in my mind, no juvenile author has portrayed an alien world so  well until Eleanor Cameron's &quot;Mushroom Planet&quot; books. It  astonishes me how far ahead of his time Lofting was; I had to glance at the  copyright page and actually check that it was published in 1928. I don't  mean that he was prescient in what the moon is actually like (Lofting's  moon is a weird but lush, living landscape), but his themes and ideas in  this book were far beyond most of the books I read as a kid, and must have  been revolutionary for juvenile lit in 1928: the ideas of evolution, the  extraordinarily precarious balance of nature (and how a man who can talk to  the animals and plants can help bring justice and fairness to their  society), and even a reflection by the Doctor on man's inhumanity to  man--and why he prefers the company of animals. The science is fantastic  but believable: Lofting's imaginative speculation on the low atmosphere and  gravity of the moon, and how the plants and animals have evolved to  compensate, is one of the highlights. This book entertained and thrilled me  as a kid, and I'm pleased to say it did so as an adult as well. Sadly, it's  currently out of print. I can definitely see fans of the Harry Potter  adventures also enjoying Doctor Dolittle...it's time for a savvy publisher to  make the entire series available again for a new generation. (And the  Mushroom Planet books by Eleanor Cameron, too, while you're at it!)r juvenile lit in 1928: the ideas of evolution, the  extraordinarily precarious balance of nature (and how a man who can talk to  the animals and plants can help bring justice and fairness to their  society), and even a reflection by the Doctor on man's inhumanity to  man--and why he prefers the company of animals. The science is fantastic  but believable: Lofting's imaginative speculation on the low atmosphere and  gravity of the moon, and how the plants and animals have evolved to  compensate, is one of the highlights. This book entertained and thrilled me  as a kid, and I'm pleased to say it did so as an adult as well. Sadly, it's  currently out of print. I can definitely see fans of the Harry Potter  adventures also enjoying Doctor Dolittle...it's time for a savvy publisher to  make the entire series available again for a new generation. (And the  Mushroom Planet books by Eleanor Cameron, too, while you're at it!)	2000-05-24
US	53060078	RDKDTSKMGUREF	031226142X	958969589	Death Is Not the End: A Novella (Inspector Rebus Mysteries)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Novella-length entry in a great crime series	If you've never read one of Ian Rankin's extraordinary John Rebus mysteries, &quot;Death is Not the End&quot; is a great introduction to the troubled Edinburgh detective and his dark world. On the surface, it's a  police procedural (the Rebus books remind me of the also-excellent Bill  James &quot;Harpur and Iles&quot; British police procedurals), but Rebus is  such a loner, breaking out into his own investigations, that it's virtually  a private detective novel as well. This imagery fits &quot;Death is Not the  End&quot; especially well as the (intentional) echoes of Raymond Chandler  and the theme of &quot;vanishing&quot;--from missing persons to long-lost  youthful innocence--permeate Rankin's alcoholic, cigarette-addicted hero's  search for the son of an old girlfriend. It's a quick read, but layered  with such detail that this would make me want to read more Rebus mysteries  even if I wasn't already a fan.  I agree in part with the Kirkus Review  above: this is pricey for a 74-page book, even a hardcover (this novella  might have been better served by publishing it as trade paperback  original). Rankin also re-used part of this plot for a recent novel  (&quot;Dead Souls&quot;). Some may see this as a cheap excuse to get you to  buy the same plot twice; I prefer to look at it as an interesting exercise  in covering the same themes in a different manner and from different  angles. It is by no means the best or definitive Rebus--one of the  full-length novels must surely fill that role. Still, if you're a Rankin  fan and completist you'll definitely want this one, and it makes a great  introduction to suggest to your friends searching for a captivating crime  series and a brilliant author.	2000-05-24
US	53060078	R2416KEXJD0ANK	0671042971	50403318	Belle Terre (Star Trek: New Earth, Book 2)	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Solid Trek adventure without the usual clich&eacute;s	Pocket's Star Trek publishing program seems to have shifted in focus over the past several months: rather than publishing stand-alone novels, we've seen a number of multi-book series ranging from the excellent  (&quot;Millennium&quot; for Deep Space Nine) to the, mmm, not-quite  so-excellent (not mentioning any names!). I'll frequently pick up a Trek  book based on the author (&quot;Millennium&quot; was written by the  always-entertaining Judith and Garfield Reeves-Stevens), but in the case of  &quot;Belle Terre&quot; I bought it mainly because of the intriguing  concept of this multi-book series: Kirk and company are assigned to escort  a group of colonists to a deep-space planet for colonization. I haven't had  a chance yet to pick up the first book in the series &quot;Wagon Train to  the Stars&quot; (I will, because it's written by another of my fave Trek  authors, Diane Carey), but #2, &quot;Belle Terre&quot;, is a fun read and  intriguing enough to make me look at the rest in the series as well. When  the idyllic world the colonists land on threatens to be destroyed, Kirk and  the Enterprise crew must race against time and exceptionally long odds to  save the planet. Characterization is dead-on, always a plus when dealing  with characters based on real actors (the grumpy, argumentative, but  humanist McCoy is so authentic you can hear the late De Kelley in your head  as you read). I've also got to commend Smith and Carey for the character of  the colony's governor...it's a long-running Trek clich&eacute; that colony governors  are thick-skulled, selfish diplomats, butting heads with Kirk and  endangering themselves and others. This character rises above that clich&eacute;  with a much more interesting personality--he's an individual with different  ideas and goals than Starfleet, but he's willing to do everything to help  Kirk and Spock's dangerous plan to stop the planet's moon from exploding.  The conclusion is no happy-ending cop-out...the planet is saved (did you  doubt it?), but at incredible cost...and, as befits a decent book series, a  cliffhanger subplot featuring a scout ship investigating a nearby dead  planet obviously leads into book three without taking the attention away  from the plot at hand. In short, a decent Trek novel, nothing exceptional,  but very good suspense, characterization, and an intriguing plot that's  different enough from the usual Trek storylines to make me check out  &quot;Star Trek: New Earth #3: Rough Trails&quot; next month.it?), but at incredible cost...and, as befits a decent book series, a  cliffhanger subplot featuring a scout ship investigating a nearby dead  planet obviously leads into book three without taking the attention away  from the plot at hand. In short, a decent Trek novel, nothing exceptional,  but very good suspense, characterization, and an intriguing plot that's  different enough from the usual Trek storylines to make me check out  &quot;Star Trek: New Earth #3: Rough Trails&quot; next month.	2000-05-22
US	53060078	R2RXYZPHHEDUAS	1859988873	713153821	Winnie-The-Pooh: The House at Pooh Corner	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The finest Pooh audiotapes ever recorded!	I learned to read by listening (again and again and again and again) to a pair of well-loved and well-worn LPs of the Pooh stories read by Maurice Evans. I always considered them the finest Pooh audiobooks ever recorded.  Up until now! Now there's this wonderful series of fully-dramatized adventures of Pooh featuring a brilliant cast of wonderful British actors: Stephen Fry (&quot;Jeeves and Wooster&quot;) as Pooh, Geoffrey Palmer (&quot;The Madness of King George&quot;) as Eeyore, Judy Dench (&quot;Shakespeare in Love&quot;) as Kanga...and best of all, the *incomparable* Jane Horrocks (&quot;Little Voice&quot; and Bubble from &quot;AbFab&quot;) as a squeaky, alarmed, and altogether adorable Piglet.  You don't have to be a kid to appreciate these fine recordings (and there are plenty of adult Pooh fans out there who will *love* these versions).  Accept no substitutes: this is simply the finest Pooh audio series yet created, beating by a *far* distance the Alan Bennett and (ugh!) Charles Kuralt versions.	2000-05-22
US	53060078	R3UM1BMVGF1WTH	0201704897	615059336	Making iMovies	Books	5	54	57	N	N	Excellent iMovie guide with a *great* DVD-ROM	I'm sure you've seen the Apple TV commercials: make digital home movies, including professional-standard fades, cuts and credits, on your iMac DV! Enticed by these dramatic TV commercials, I bought an iMac DV, but of  course there was no iMovie instruction manual included. One of the only  laments I have about Apple these days is the lack of documentation and  instruction books included with their new computers (and their online help  features are frequently confusing, anemic, and infuriating to use), but  luckily a whole new range of books are being published to cope with this  lack. This is one of the first iMovie instruction manuals published, and  though I can't make any comparisons yet with the many that will likely  follow, this is a great instruction and idea manual. This largish-format  paperback (9 x 9 inches) takes you step-by-step through planning your  iMovie, storyboarding, filming on your digital camera, editing, scoring,  and adding sound and credits. Lots of color illustrations show you examples  as well as screen-shot menus that make the process clear and  easy-to-follow. There's an excellent general theory section on storytelling  on film, many examples of how to make your shots more dramatic, how to get  around the basic limitations of shooting digitally or showing your iMovies  on a computer screen, troubleshooting, things to avoid, and much more.  Among the great tips it offered that I didn't know and *needed* to know is  how to convert Quicktime files into iMovie format. Most important, this  book contains a DVD-ROM with all the files you need for three separate  project exercises in editing, scoring, adding sound and credits. Most  &quot;exercises&quot; provided with computer manuals are usually pretty  lame, but *not* these...they're entertaining, well-shot short-short film  segments (you put `em together into three films), with a tongue-in-cheek  quality and twist endings that make them fun to work on, *not* laborious.  So, in short, this a great introduction and beginner's manual to a  user-friendly but very detailed Macintosh program in specific and novice  filmmaking in general. While the page count (138 pages) may seem anemic for  $39.95, the large amount of color and the DVD-ROM featuring imaginative  projects to use as exercises and source material go a long way to making  this a good buy. I'm eagerly awaiting a competing book: David Pogue's  &quot;iMovie: The Missing Manual&quot; (ISBN 1565928598)--Pogue is one of  the recognized experts on all things Mac and *always* entertaining to  read--but *this* book is a great way to start out making your own iMovies.  Narration by Jeff Goldblum not included.great introduction and beginner's manual to a  user-friendly but very detailed Macintosh program in specific and novice  filmmaking in general. While the page count (138 pages) may seem anemic for  $39.95, the large amount of color and the DVD-ROM featuring imaginative  projects to use as exercises and source material go a long way to making  this a good buy. I'm eagerly awaiting a competing book: David Pogue's  &quot;iMovie: The Missing Manual&quot; (ISBN 1565928598)--Pogue is one of  the recognized experts on all things Mac and *always* entertaining to  read--but *this* book is a great way to start out making your own iMovies.  Narration by Jeff Goldblum not included.	2000-05-10
US	53060078	RHNS1QL35S0IP	0609804383	333344502	Black Rubber Dress: A Sam Jones Novel	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Unconventional, sexy London mystery heroine	Our heroine's name here is *Samantha* Jones, not Bridget...but if Bridget Jones lost her paranoia and self-obsession she might turn into Sam Jones! There's much of the same characterization, concern and compulsion with  boyfriends, dating, sex, losing weight, career, etc., transplanted into a  hip North London sculptor, and thankfully, it's a lot more entertaining to  read. (Brief memo to Helen Fielding: give poor Bridget a *plot* next time!)  If you like British mysteries but are turned off by their usual two  extremes: the elderly biddy detective solving the murder of the vicar in  the tea garden, or the world-weary Birmingham cop battling corruption in  his own force...then this is the book, and the character, for you. Sam  Jones is a breath of fresh air...a young, confident (mostly), sexy sculptor  from Camden Town (no, she's *not* Cockney, as another review here has  said!) Definitely an non-traditional mystery series heroine--she sniffs  coke, juggles lovers, and takes action to solve a mystery not necessarily  out of justice, but rather because it's her sculpture that's crushed a  murder victim. The mystery takes a while to get going in the book (the  murder doesn't occur until about a third of the way through, and Sam  doesn't even really start taking action until two-thirds in)...but I didn't  mind because the personalities, scenery, and subplots were so compelling  and fun to read about--scandal, blackmail, drugs and murder inside an  ultra-exclusive society family and London banking firm rope in Sam, giving  her a lover from the privileged side of the tracks. For the Anglophiles  there's plenty of London atmosphere from trendy Kensington to hip Camden  Town, and this is definitely a character worth watching and checking in on  in future Sam Jones mysteries. She reminded me a bit of Stephanie Plum in  Janet Evanovich's mysteries...sexy, spunky, sometimes a little out of her  depth but always entertaining to watch. Perhaps I'd like to see Lauren  Henderson work on having a stronger mystery plot itself in her next book,  but if the characters and scene-setting are as entertaining as this one,  I'll gladly forgive her that!work on having a stronger mystery plot itself in her next book,  but if the characters and scene-setting are as entertaining as this one,  I'll gladly forgive her that!	2000-05-06
US	53060078	RJPY2ZH3XEMM4	1840322195	8133424	Tigger Comes to the Forest and Other Stories	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The finest Pooh audiocassettes ever recorded!	[This is a review of the Hodder/Headline audiocassette version] I learned to read by listening (again and again and again and again) to a pair of well-loved and well-worn LPs of the Pooh stories read by Maurice Evans. I always considered them the finest Pooh audiobooks ever recorded. Up until  now! Now there's this wonderful series of fully-dramatized adventures of  Pooh featuring a brilliant cast of wonderful British actors: Stephen Fry  (&quot;Jeeves and Wooster&quot;) as Pooh, Geoffrey Palmer (&quot;The  Madness of King George&quot;) as Eeyore, Judy Dench (&quot;Shakespeare in  Love&quot;) as Kanga...and best of all, the *incomparable* Jane Horrocks  (&quot;Little Voice&quot; and Bubbles from &quot;AbFab&quot;) as a squeaky,  alarmed, and altogether adorable Piglet. You don't have to be a kid to  appreciate these fine recordings (and there are plenty of adult Pooh fans  out there who will *love* these versions). Accept no substitutes: this is  simply the finest Pooh audio series yet created, beating by a *far*  distance the Alan Bennett and (ugh!) Charles Kuralt versions. There's more  than just this one tape in the series, too. The series includes  &quot;Tigger Comes to the Forest&quot; (ISBN: 1840322195); &quot;Piglet  Meets a Heffalump&quot; (ISBN: 1840320524) and &quot;Pooh Invents a New  Game&quot; (ISBN: 1840322268). Type the 10-digit ISBN number into the  Amazon search field to go directly to the webpages for these cassettes.	2000-04-25
US	53060078	R2YSDYLBBUEVH5	1840320524	609623931	Piglet Meets a Heffalump and Other Stories	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The finest Pooh audiotapes ever recorded!	[This is a review of the Hodder/Headline audiocassette version] I learned to read by listening (again and again and again and again) to a pair of well-loved and well-worn LPs of the Pooh stories read by Maurice Evans. I always considered them the finest Pooh audiobooks ever recorded. Up until now! Now there's this wonderful series of fully-dramatized adventures of  Pooh featuring a brilliant cast of wonderful British actors: Stephen Fry  (&quot;Jeeves and Wooster&quot;) as Pooh, Geoffrey Palmer (&quot;The  Madness of King George&quot;) as Eeyore, Judy Dench (&quot;Shakespeare in  Love&quot;) as Kanga...and best of all, the *incomparable* Jane Horrocks  (&quot;Little Voice&quot; and Bubbles from &quot;AbFab&quot;) as a squeaky,  alarmed, and altogether adorable Piglet. You don't have to be a kid to  appreciate these fine recordings (and there are plenty of adult Pooh fans  out there who will *love* these versions). Accept no substitutes: this is  simply the finest Pooh audio series yet created...... There's more  than just this one tape in the series, too. The series includes  &quot;Tigger Comes to the Forest&quot; (ISBN: 1840322195); &quot;Piglet  Meets a Heffalump&quot; (ISBN: 1840320524) and &quot;Pooh Invents a New  Game&quot; (ISBN: 1840322268). Type the 10-digit ISBN number into the  Amazon search field to go directly to the webpages for these cassettes.	2000-04-25
US	53060078	R38QNHQB039ZYN	1840322268	378022674	Pooh Invents a New Game and Other Stories	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The finest Pooh audiotapes ever recorded!	[This is a review of the Hodder/Headline audiocassette version] I learned to read by listening (again and again and again and again) to a pair of well-loved and well-worn LPs of the Pooh stories read by Maurice Evans. I always considered them the finest Pooh audiobooks ever recorded. Up until  now! Now there's this wonderful series of fully-dramatized adventures of  Pooh featuring a brilliant cast of wonderful British actors: Stephen Fry  (&quot;Jeeves and Wooster&quot;) as Pooh, Geoffrey Palmer (&quot;The  Madness of King George&quot;) as Eeyore, Judy Dench (&quot;Shakespeare in  Love&quot;) as Kanga...and best of all, the *incomparable* Jane Horrocks  (&quot;Little Voice&quot; and Bubbles from &quot;AbFab&quot;) as a squeaky,  alarmed, and altogether adorable Piglet. You don't have to be a kid to  appreciate these fine recordings (and there are plenty of adult Pooh fans  out there who will *love* these versions). Accept no substitutes: this is  simply the finest Pooh audio series yet created, beating by a *far*  distance the Alan Bennett and (ugh!) Charles Kuralt versions. There's more  than just this one tape in the series, too. The series includes  &quot;Tigger Comes to the Forest&quot; (ISBN: 1840322195); &quot;Piglet  Meets a Heffalump&quot; (ISBN: 1840320524) and &quot;Pooh Invents a New  Game&quot; (ISBN: 1840322268). Type the 10-digit ISBN number into the  Amazon search field to go directly to the webpages for these cassettes.	2000-04-25
US	53060078	RLCJL1RBDYA9D	0399145877	953931509	Hugger Mugger: A Spenser Novel (Spenser Mysteries)	Books	5	30	31	N	N	If Robert B. Parker wrote a Dick Francis mystery...	Who else but Robert Parker could tackle three different mystery characters in three different novels a year and still be one of the most consistently entertaining writers in the mystery field? But (with apologies to Jesse Stone and Helen H...er, sorry, Sunny Randall), it's Spenser we love the best.  My two favorite mystery novelists are Robert B. Parker and Dick Francis, and this mystery, set in Georgia horse country, is the best of both worlds: Spenser must track down the murderer of horses at a training farm, populated by (as Spenser says) the cast of a Tennessee Williams play. As always, much of the fun is the dialogue--no one's better than Spenser taking the wind out of a pompous twit's sails, and no one's better at writing that wise-guy with an intellectual edge than Parker. Any complaints? Well, sure, there's a big one. No Hawk! Luckily, Susan's around, and so is Pearl the Wonder Dog. Spenser's sidekick in this book, a gay ex-cop named Tedy Sapp, is interesting enough, but Mr. Sapp, you're *no* Hawk! (But who is?) My other quibble is a broader one. This is a fine standard Spenser mystery, but it's nothing more than that--Spenser gets a client, scouts the case, matches wits with the suspects, flirts a bit (but stays loyal to Susan, of course) and cracks the solution. But a truly exceptional Spenser book, while it contains all these elements, can be so much more. I've been reading Spenser's adventures for nearly 20 years, and the ones that make the most impression on me--those I consider the best, in which Parker transcends the normal mystery novel--are the books in which Spenser as a character moves forward dramatically, in which something major happens to Spenser *personally* to change or influence his life. Don't get me wrong--that kind of approach would not be welcome in every book...but after nearly 30 Spenser books the ones that stand out in my mind are &quot;Early Autumn&quot;...&quot;A Catskill Eagle&quot;...&quot;Small Vices&quot;...Spenser adventures that bring us more into the personal life of Parker's hero than the others. That Parker is capable of such sublime heights between the more-standard Spenser (and Jesse Stone and Sunny Randall) mysteries is the most important reason I keep reading him.hat bring us more into the personal life of Parker's hero than the others. That Parker is capable of such sublime heights between the more-standard Spenser (and Jesse Stone and Sunny Randall) mysteries is the most important reason I keep reading him.	2000-04-03
US	53060078	R3RZRZ1GZQ5VRP	1885941366	389729379	The Tragedy of Errors and Others	Books	5	29	29	N	N	A must for all Queen fanatics!	There's been far too little written about Ellery Queen--truly the master of American detective fiction. This book from Crippen and Landru is a great step forward. In addition to the full outline of Dannay and Lee's final but  never finished novel &quot;The Tragedy of Errors,&quot; there's also a  selection of EQ short stories and best yet, a collection of appreciations  and essays by collaborators and contempraries to EQ, covering the early  period of the pince-nez Ellery to the later ghost-written (but plotted and  edited by Dannay and Lee) psychological and religious thrillers--and even  the Ellery of radio and the comics! EQ's been sadly out of fashion in the  mystery field over the last 20 years--following a resurgence in 1976 with  the NBC-TV series, various publishers have reissued several books but let  them go out of print quickly; the essays in &quot;The Tragedy of  Errors&quot; remind me how much I wish all the EQs were still available for  today's new mystery readers. This is the best book I've yet seen on the  *history* of Ellery, the cousins who created him, and the groundbreaking  &quot;Ellery Queen's Mystery Magazine.&quot; The very best compliment I can  give this book? It makes me *need* to go back and re-read all my EQ  favorites. Now, if I can only figure out those cryptic dying clues...	2000-03-21
US	53060078	R1P5SGYLAVDWBT	0061051578	847958713	The Fifth Elephant: A Novel of Discworld	Books	5	11	15	N	N	Pratchett is the reigning master of humourous fantasy	Life is good when there's a new Terry Pratchett adventure in the bookstores...and thankfully he writes one every year! (And since Douglas Adams seems to have taken a hiatus of tremendous proportions, Pratchett  should be proclaimed as the reigning master of humourous fantasy.)  &quot;The Fifth Elephant&quot; takes place, like the other 20+ books in the  series, on the mysterious earth known as Discworld (a flat earth supported  by elephants on the back of a giant turtle--an earth where magic not only  works, it frequently works *against* you). Like always, the casts of  characters rotates among books so your favorites pop up every few years no  matter who you like best! The focus this book is on Ankh-Morpork chief of  police Samuel Vimes (Discworld's answer to Captain Frank Furillo), sent on  a diplomatic and investigative mission to the mysterious country of  Uberwald--fill in your own real-life counterpart here, because, as in the  best of the Discworld adventures, Pratchett mixes the humour, adventure and  fantasy with his own dry and frequently hilarious social commentary on  everything from fascist groups (werewolves) to born-again fundamentalist  religion. Hilarious and fast-paced, it's not the best in the series but  still deserves five stars--even a lesser Pratchett is a joy and delight and  only leaves you wanting more! Plus, there's a long-needed travelguide to  Discworld in the back of the book, along with character profiles and a  crossword! The only thing that would have made this new Pratchett a  breakout title would have been if HarperCollins had published it last year!  This came out in England in November 1999--Pratchett books are published  anywhere from 6 months to a year earlier in England, making us wait for the  treat long after the Brits, or ordering it instead from Amazon UK. Result:  lost sales for HarperCollins US! Scholastic learned from a similar problem  with the &quot;Harry Potter&quot; books and moved their US publication  dates to match the UK pub dates...any consideration for the same thing,  HarperCollins?ch the UK pub dates...any consideration for the same thing,  HarperCollins?	2000-03-18
US	53060078	RAYWRE87FZQH1	086241542X	295344210	Three Men on a Bike: A Journey Through Africa (Canongate Classic)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Goodie Goodie Yum Yum...Adventures on a Trandem	If you're a fan of British comedy, you probably remember the television series &quot;The Goodies&quot; starring Tim Brooke-Taylor, Graeme Garden and Bill Oddie, in which the trio had their wacky adventures and travelled  around on a three-seater 'trandem' bicycle. The actual trandem was bought  at a BBC props auction and ridden for charity through Africa...a hilarious  travelogue of the collision between British eccentricity and adventure and  African tradition and exploration. If you enjoy humorous travel books like  those of Bill Bryson, Michael Palin, or 'Round Ireland with a Fridge' by  Tony Hawks, this is the book to look for...IF it was in print! It's  currently out of print in the US and even Amazon UK (www.amazon.co.uk)  doesn't list it as available. Come on, US travel publishers...this should  be a constantly in-print classic: get on yer bike and get it available  again!	2000-02-17
US	53060078	R3GDDU7KA9CUHH	0312243995	155058556	Michael Palin's Hemingway Adventure	Books	5	81	83	N	N	Michael Palin made me love Hemingway! (Well, LIKE him.)	I didn't care much for Hemingway (yes, yes, I know he's the greatest writer of the twentieth century, or so everyone tells me)--so why would I pick up this book, you might ask? The man and his work never interested me  much--UNTIL I read Michael Palin's new travel adventure! It took the  ex-Monty Pythoner's love of Hemingway to get me interested in him. I picked  this book up because I'd loved Palin's previous travel books, especially  'Around the World in Eighty Days.' Palin's off again on a journey with a  specific theme--to follow in the footsteps of Ernest Hemingway on his world  travels throughout his life, from Oak Park in Illinois, to Spain and France  and Africa, to Key West, Florida, with dozens of stops and Hemingway  anecdotes, history, and literary appreciation along the way. Palin's a HUGE  Hemingway fan (if you like this, check out Palin's novel 'Hemingway's  Chair') and his love for the man and his work are absolutely infectious.  Gorgeous colour photos by Palin's usual colleague Basil Pao make this an  attractive gift book. In short, while I shrugged at Hemingway the writer in  college lit classes, it took Palin to introduce me to Hemingway the  MAN...and my appreciation for him has grown considerably. Sometimes it just  takes a great literature teacher to awaken your interest in a writer...but  I never thought one of my teachers would be a Python!	2000-02-11
US	53060078	R1GF6RIYKPRA7D	0967536308	775701916	The Hieronimus & Co. Yellow Submarine Journal	Books	5	14	16	N	N	A treasure trove of fun and info for Yellow Submariners!	You can't exactly call it a book--it's a very professionally printed fanzine, 56 pages, on heavy glossy stock with lots of color (75 color illustrations and photos, most on the smallish side but well-reproduced)  and much b/w. It's a great overall look at the celebration of the reissued  version of YS, with articles on the reissue, an intro by Erich Segal,  examinations of the art, mythology, origins and creation of the movie, a  very extensive section on YS collectibles and memorabilia, and even  real-life Yellow Submarine UFO sightings! (It's all in the mind, you know.)  A wonderful companion for every Beatles fan young and old, and a necessity  for the Yellow Sub scholars and completists. All you need is love...oh, and  this book.	2000-01-13
US	53060078	R2HY9JYCPNHWF6	0439136350	667539744	Harry Potter And The Prisoner Of Azkaban	Books	5	3	3	N	N	These will be classics read for decades	I considered myself lucky to have gotten an advance reading copy of the third and newest Harry Potter book (don't worry Scholastic, I still bought a copy!), and without giving away any of the incredible plot, it's  absolutely wonderful. J.K. Rowling has gotten even better with this new  entry in the series--between edge-of-your-seat thrills and laugh-out-loud  humor, she's created a series of classics that will be read for decades, if  not beyond. I'm 37...but I *wish* I'd discovered these when I was 13! Buy  this, buy the others, read 'em till they fall apart, buy new copies, save  them for your kids to pass down to their kids. You need a little magic in  your life!	1999-12-07
US	53060078	R22MO1I5V3MRLU	0688149774	123589421	The Magic of Oz (Books of Wonder)	Books	5	31	33	N	N	The penultimate Baum, in the ultimate edition	As the Beatles sang: &quot;It's getting very near the end.&quot; This is the second-to-last of Books of Wonder's marvelous reissues of L. Frank Baum's Oz books (yes, folks, there's much *more* to Oz than the movie!) and  the book itself is one of the gems of the entire series. One of the darker  (yet most delightful) of Baum's original books features Kiki Aru, would-be  sorcerer, wreaking havoc throughout the Land of Oz with his powerful word  of transformation: &quot;Pyrxqzgl.&quot; Like editor Peter Glassgold says  in his afterword, I too spent hours as a kid trying to figure out how that  should be pronounced! Baum never lived to see this or his final Oz book  (&quot;Glinda of Oz&quot;) published, but the maturity, mystic adventure  and sheer fun of this book makes it one of the best in the series. I wonder  what gems he would have given us had he lived longer! All of Baum's Oz  books are excellent suggestions for parents searching for Christmas gifts  for their kids who have read the three Harry Potter books to shreds. I'm  sorry to see this excellent repackaging of the series nearly at an end, but  as I discovered as a kid, the books themselves never end--they're there for  us to re-read and re-discover for all time.	1999-12-07
US	53060078	R2IIIDK6SUBJ7G	0671536095	776780668	The Star Trek Encyclopedia	Books	5	47	50	N	N	Still the definitive reference for Trekkies, er, Trekkers.	I can't imagine being a die-had Trekker without this book: the ultimate reference to people, places, things, events in the entire Star Trek universe from the original series of 1966 through all the movies and series  right up to Voyager. This updated edition is not quite as smoothly  integrated as previous updates--the last couple season's worth of shows and  Star Trek: Insurrection are all treated in a separate (but extensive)  section at the back, but a decent cross-referencing system lessens the  inconvenience. I find it the ultimate can't put-down book-start to look up  a subject of interest and you'll find yourself drawn from entry to entry  until you've forgotten exactly what it was you were looking for but find  yourself seized with the intense desire to rewatch several episodes. Unless  you're the most serious Trek fan, you probably don't need the updated  edition if you have an earlier one...but for those who do, it's a wonderful  guide.	1999-12-07
US	53060078	R2TQ32XOVFZIG	0671881035	268474415	STAR TREK New Worlds, New Civilizations	Books	5	24	24	N	N	A &quot;National Geographic&quot; for Star Trek	What if &quot;National Geographic&quot; (&quot;Interstellar Geographic?&quot;) were still published in Star Trek's time? You might get something like this gorgeous oversized coffee-table book--a National  Geographic-style study of Star Trek's brave new worlds and new  civilizations. From a first-person account of trekking across Vulcan's  Forge, to a visit to the devastated but under-construction Starfleet  Academy, to the mysterious Q Continuum, this series of gorgeously  illustrated essays treats the Trek universe through the eyes of (and in the  style of) science writers and travel essayists, showing the ordinary Joe  (and Jane and Q'yxk) of the 24th century about the worlds of their vast  Federation. An eclectic and attractive mix of illustrators (I especially  enjoyed the work of Dave McKean, better known for his &quot;Sandman&quot;  covers) makes this a true illustrated treat in the  vein of all those  oversized National Geographic books. While there might be some quibbling  among Trek fans about the pieces included (would the Federation really let  information out to the general public on Q, or the Guardian of Forever?),  every section is a delight and a great gift for the Trek fan.	1999-12-07
US	53060078	R2MELD9LUKYH40	0399145001	216120470	High Time to Kill (James Bond Adventure)	Books	1	5	8	N	N	You love it or you hate it...I hated it.	Well, by looking at the  Customer Comments on this book, it appears that you either love it or you hate it...odd how little middle ground there is! Me, I couldn't understand why any fans enjoyed this...I found it dull, slow  (Benson does not have the skill to make rock climbing interesting...I kept  thinking of that old &quot;Mystery Science Theater 3000&quot; epsiode where  the mountain climbing scenes went on...and on...and on...and on...and  on...), and most disappointing of all, incredibly predictable (the villain  is *exactly* who you, and Bond, suspect it is, with absolutely no intrigue  or mystery). Add to that a very awkward subplot featuring a Bond romance  gone wrong (hey, we don't want to read about 007 having spats with his  lovers...) and you're left with one of the weakest entries in the canon.  (Then again, I liked most of John Gardner's entries and my favorite movie  is &quot;On Her Majesty's Secret service&quot;, so you can take my advice  with a grain of salt if you wish--I'm obviously not in the majority of Bond  fans).	1999-07-02
US	53060078	RHZOORNSOOMZA	0671019163	802905261	Planet X (Star Trek: The Next Generation)	Books	4	31	34	N	N	A slight but fun collision of two pop-culture universes	When it was first announced, this book seemed to me (a Trek and a X-Men fan) a terrible idea... dreamed up by the two corporations to pull in the millions of fans (and dollars) of both mega-pop-culture phenomena. Well, sure, it may be that, but it's also a lot of fun. Friedman isn't my favorite Trek writer, but his enthusiasm for both teams shows, and there's some solid character work: an intriguing spotlight on Archangel (never one of my favorite X-Men, but portrayed here with an interesting and original twist), Wolverine and Worf bonding in the holodeck, and a scene every fan has been waiting for: Picard and Xavier noting just how much the other looks like him (Patrick Stewart *should* be the frontrunner to play Professor X in any proposed X-Men movie, if there's justice in the universe!). The plot --the emergence of alien mutants-- seems almost tacked on as an excuse to get the two teams together, but that's forgiveable, the team-up is so much fun. Not one of the classic Trek books, not even an all-time great X-Men story, but a fun evening's read and a solid contribution to a genre previously only seen in fan fiction.	1998-04-15
