US	53065656	R3GAG0SS7BQ6BZ	1403325510	773457154	The Physics of the Paranormal	Books	2	5	6	N	Y	What the...?	This book was first published in 1987, with a revised version released in 2003.  In it, the author offers \\"tentative working hypotheses\\" to explain such reported phenomena as mental telepathy, psychokinesis, the `Geller effect', ESP & precognition, ghosts, poltergeists, teleportation, miracle cures and even \\"werewolves and vampires (!!).\\"  As one who has long felt that many \\"paranormal\\" phenomena could eventually be understood and explained through advances in the study of physics, I was intrigued.  Moreover, the author states in the introduction that he's been involved in the study of UFOs (a subject I've studied for a long time as well), and his focus was to try and apply his hypothesis of UFO propulsion to the study of the paranormal.  In Behrendt's opinion, UFOs utilize an \\"anti-mass field effect.\\"  This \\"anti-mass field effect\\" is the underpinning in his explanations of the various phenomena explored, providing, he writes, \\"solid theoretical foundations for the paranormal phenomena covered.\\"<br /><br />The author has developed very elaborate, and rather complex, hypotheses based upon the idea that the human body creates conditions (electromagnetic fields) within itself, which can interact with other people or inert materials, depending upon certain conditions, resulting in manifestations termed `paranormal.'  For example, when a psychic (or medium) senses traces of past activities (such as a murder), they are picking up  \\"stronger than normal sinusoidally pulsating anti-mass field radiations from the smaller blood vessels and capillaries...\\" which results in the \\"holographic storage\\" of these \\"radiation emitting points\\" by the \\"rotating toroidal vortexes produced by temperature differences in the building materials of the room...\\" Got that?<br /><br />Turning to `ghosts and poltergeists', Behrendt begins well enough, logically attributing a man's apparition of his recently deceased wife to the psychological condition known as \\"recurrent hypnopompic fantasy.\\"  But then it gets really strange.  He attempts to delineate between \\"ghost/poltergeist-like phenomena\\" and \\"true ghost/poltergeist sightings,\\" and offers an explanation for the two groupings.  The \\"ghost/poltergeist-like\\" phenomena are the result of perceptions of \\"living entities\\", specifically, subterrestrial or extraterrestrial beings.  The author posits the genesis of the \\"subterrestrials\\" to the last ice age, when glaciers covered much of North America and Europe. It seems that, while many humans quickly migrated south to escape the harsh conditions, some humans chose to \\"sit out the ice age by taking refuge in the deep subterranean caverns that exist...\\" The author goes on to develop an elaborate scenario involving underground cities, food and light sources, etc.  He describes a `divergent evolution' that results in these subterrestrials having the ability to levitate and turn invisible.  When people see what they think are `ghosts or poltergeists', they are actually seeing these entities coming up to check the surface out! He references certain unexplained and enigmatic 'wells' and 'staircases leading into the ground' as possible entranceways between down there and up here. Of course, it is important that their world be kept secret; to keep prying humans away, they purposely haunt houses and cemeteries, or walk \\"old country roads.\\"  Stories of these sightings spread, with the results being \\"Houses...sold...property values...drop and local businesses...slowly go bankrupt.\\"  Voila, the subterrestrials' existence is kept secret!  Of course, alternatively, the `ghost and poltergeist-like' activity could be the work of diminutive extraterrestrials.<br />`Real ghosts and poltergeists', however, are the product of \\"living menstrous human females projecting bodily sinusoidally pulsating anti-mass field radiations...\\" or the previously mentioned \\"holographically stored patterns of altered microcrystalline structures of building materials...\\"<br />Needless to say, all ofthis makes one's head spin.  Reading this book, I found myself frequently shaking my head thinking `oh brother', and being strongly tempted to just put it away.  However, I paid good money for it, and dammit, I intended to finish it!  It was a bewildering and frustrating experience.<br /><br />Another reviewer used the term `technobabble' in his description of this book.  I must agree that is an appropriate word. But, there is much more to it; namely, the exhibition of one of the most fertile imaginations I've come across in a long time.<br />There is no doubt that the author spent much time, effort and thought in writing this book; there is no doubt that he is serious in his hypotheses.  What is doubtful, however, is that the hypotheses presented by the author can or will illuminate the mysteries behind paranormal phenomena.  I'll give the book two stars in deference to the effort involved, and to the vivid imagination of the author.  As a serious and worthwhile work, however, it fails big-time.d spin.  Reading this book, I found myself frequently shaking my head thinking `oh brother', and being strongly tempted to just put it away.  However, I paid good money for it, and dammit, I intended to finish it!  It was a bewildering and frustrating experience.      Another reviewer used the term `technobabble' in his description of this book.  I must agree that is an appropriate word. But, there is much more to it; namely, the exhibition of one of the most fertile imaginations I've come across in a long time.  There is no doubt that the author spent much time, effort and thought in writing this book; there is no doubt that he is serious in his hypotheses.  What is doubtful, however, is that the hypotheses presented by the author can or will illuminate the mysteries behind paranormal phenomena.  I'll give the book two stars in deference to the effort involved, and to the vivid imagination of the author.  As a serious and worthwhile work, however, it fails big-time.	2005-06-18
US	53065656	R1O8NIF1M5KWRX	0741417561	557526084	Global Implications of the UFO Reality	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Well-written overview of an important subject.	MUFON field investigator David Twichell's second book (he authored 'The UFO-Jesus Connection') is a fairly short (138 pages plus appendices) treatment of subjects covered more expansively in other works.  He touches upon such issues as the effect of the UFO reality on social institutions, religion, human psychology and planetary ecology, and the basis behind ongoing efforts to discredit and obfuscate the phenomenon.  Quoting former CIA operative and author Victor Marchetti, Twichell posits the conclusion that the reasons for discrediting the UFO phenomenon are to \\"...maintain a workable stability among the nations of the world and...to retain social control over their respective populations.\\" While this conclusion is not new or revelatory, the author has managed to make the case in a clear, logical and concise fashion.<br /><br />Of particular interest are the chapters dealing with the impact of the phenomenon on religions; his comparison between the views of fundamentalists (`minions of Satan') and others (including the Catholic Church) place in stark contrast their differing interpretations.  His treatment of the idea of extraterrestrial influence in the development of man and religion is done in an objective manner, even while maintaining his belief in  the reality of a supreme deity (for more detailed analysis of this view, see `The Many Waters' by Lauretta Lueck and `The Yahweh Encounters' by Ann Madden Jones).<br /><br />If I can find any flaw with the book (other than its brevity), the sections dealing with abductees and contactees, while interesting, seemed to be only peripheral to the book's focus.<br /><br />It seems that this book owes much to Dr. Steven Greer's `Disclosure Project.'  He offers thanks to Greer in the book's acknowledgement page, and provides quotes from 68 members of the Project in an appendix.  In fact, it would be fair to characterize this book as an excellent primer to the lengthier and more comprehensive book `Disclosure.'<br /><br />In summary, `Global Implications of the UFO Reality' is a well-written and thought-provoking treatment of an issue whose time is now.In summary, `Global Implications of the UFO Reality' is a well-written and thought-provoking treatment of an issue whose time is now.	2005-05-02
US	53065656	R3B8ARP8IZ22FQ	0967323819	610570321	Disclosure : Military and Government Witnesses Reveal the Greatest Secrets in Modern History	Books	5	143	150	N	Y	Too important to ignore.	I've just finished this incredible and disturbing book, although it's been out for a few years now.  As someone who, like other reviewers, has read countless books on UFOs, alternative energy as well as government misdeeds, none have resonated like this one.  The credibility of those interviewed is beyond reproach.  No wonder the mainstream media won't touch it.  The manufactured and well-cultivated derision heaped upon those who have an interest in these subjects (UFOs and alternative energy) simply will not work in discrediting those courageous individuals who have come forward in the Disclosure Project.<br />For those who are interested in acquiring more detailed information about UFO sightings and the role of the military regarding the phenomenon, Disclosure will provide much new information.  The real value of this critically important work, however, is to put into sharp focus just how reprehensible and truly dangerous those who have manipulated and controlled information about this matter have been.  I totally agree with Charles Balogh:  this book needs to be disseminated as widely as possible.  I intend to buy several copies to that end.  This book is not simply one to satisfy UFO buffs.  The import of what Dr. Greer has amassed has direct and clear implication for the survival of the planet.  When one reads it, then the semi-literate (he must have flunked English) and feeble attempt by people like `aerospace exec' to denigrate this vital work will be readily seen for what it is.  Do yourself and the world a big favor: read this book.	2005-04-21
US	53065656	R1Z13AOWPD19UM	1860742971	834345041	Neil Finn--Once Removed	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Nice for Finn fans, but not coffee table quality.	Neil Finn, formerly of Split Enz and Crowded House, shows some real writing talent with his very personal, and at times incisive, commentary on his first post-Crowded House solo tour to promote the superb `Try Whistling This'.  His prose offers glimpses into the rigors of such a tour, as well as revealing the effect on his personal and family life.  He offers insightful comments on the demands of and skills required to navigate through the business and logistical maze of pulling a tour off.  Finn notes, for example, that in trying to remember all of the event details and people he encounters good \\"short-term memory\\" is needed, adding parenthetically (and with some humor) \\"marijuana is not recommended.\\"  I read Finn's words in one sitting, and was transported to his world, however briefly.<br />As pointed out by at least one other reviewer, however, there is a weakness with this book.  It is essentially a pictorial, embellished by Finn's writing. Given this, the photography is obviously crucial.  Regrettably, the photographs just don't rise to the occasion.  While it is true that there are a few really good shots (my favorite being a shot of Neil and his drummer playing chess next to a window, with the vast expanse of the Western states streaking by), there are even more lame shots.  With all due respect to photographer and Finn family friend Mark Smith, many of those buying this book could probably do as good (or better) a job than is evident here.  Two full, open-leaf pages of airplane contrail?  A squashed bug on a windshield?  Close-up shots of orange traffic safety cones?  Maybe you had to have been there.  In any event, I give the book 4 stars for Neil Finn's writing, 2 stars for the photography, hence the composite of 3 stars.	2004-07-15
US	53065656	R291CY288LXE0I	1931044341	118498400	Mothman and Other Curious Encounters	Books	4	19	20	N	Y	A good read, but little new to offer.	This book, a follow-up to Mysterious America by cryptozoologist Loren Coleman, is basically a compendium of reports, anecdotes and myths dealing with strange creatures.<br />Apparently published to capitalize on the film `The Mothman Prophecies' (the back of the book displays a prominent ad for the film), this book is a fun read, great for a rainy evening.  And, for those unfamiliar with such Fortean phenomena as Mothman, The Flatwoods Monster, thunderbirds and other such critters, this is a good overview.  However, for those who have read John Keel's Mothman Prophecies, Our Haunted Planet or Strange Creatures from Time and Space, or who are familiar with the books of the late Charles Fort (namesake of the word Fortean), there is little new to be found here.<br />Within the book's 200 pages are nine chapters, two appendices and a section on `Mothman bibliography and other resources' (did you know you could order an \\"action Mothman figure\\"?).  The chapters aggregate `types' of creatures, such as `Winged Weirdies', `Mothman' and `Lizardmen'.  And, given the influence of John Keel's work on Coleman, one chapter is even called `Keel's Children'.  In fact, this book arguably should have been sub-subtitled `An Homage to John Keel'.  One whole appendix is a direct re-print of reported Mothman sightings lifted from Keel's Strange Creatures from Time and Space.  Without Keel's contributions, this would likely have been a pretty slim volume indeed.<br />As mentioned, this is an entertaining way to spend a few hours, not requiring much in the way of deep thinking.  The style of the book is breezy and engaging, although it could have benefited from better proofreading (the late ufologist Gray Barker was sometimes referred to as Gray, other times as `Gary').  For those who are interested in a solid introduction to the arcane field of `cryptozoology', this is a great place to start, and for those who are generally familiar with the material, this is a good refresher.  It's certainly worth the modest price.y worth the modest price.	2004-06-16
US	53065656	R1O6ICUUGHNI1I	1589801253	636625273	Solving the 1897 Airship Mystery	Books	4	33	38	N	Y	Well-researched and convincing, yet...	I first learned of the 1897 airship mystery many years ago, through my interest in (and study of) unusual phenomena, particularly the UFO phenomenon. I've read what I've seen published on the topic, including works by Daniel Cohen and Wallace O. Chariton.  I was eager to read an analysis of the sightings by a non-ufologist (Busby refers to Nevada's Area 51 as &quot;Area 54&quot;).<br />  Aside from the alleged Aurora incident, my own take on this episode was that the sightings were real (Cohen thinks it was all a hoax), were not extraterrestrial (as Chariton believes them to be), but were likely the product of enterprising, creative people. The descriptions given by witnesses depicted an almost Rube Goldberg type craft, with &quot;undulating wings...like a huge bird...&quot; coming from a cigar-shaped object, a powerful search light, fan-like propellers and an undercarriage. There were numerous reports of mechanical sounds, humans being seen (and conversed with), notes dropped from the airship, sightings of repairs being made, etc. No, I was always pretty sure that the airships were of human origin. In 'Solving the 1897 Airship Mystery', author Michael Busby tackles the problem from the perspective of an engineer, coupled with a solid military background (he's a former Marine). He sets out to prove that the airships were in fact built and flown by specific individuals. &quot;Real people, real patents, real flight demonstrations,&quot; Busby writes. Has he made the case?  Probably 'yes'. But could there be more to the whole episode?<br />While Busby has constructed a reasonable and logical explanation for the 1897 airship sightings, there are still some facets of the matter that do not fit into his scenario.  For example, while there were generally consistent descriptions by witnesses of the airship(s) appearance, size (between 100-200 feet in length) and speed (135-150 mph), there are some reports that do not comport with these descriptions.  Some witnesses describe a craft 20 feet in length, some 50 feet; one even said it was &quot;eight feet.&quot;  The typical report has a craft moving slowly, building up speed, yet at least one eyewitness stated the object took off &quot;like a shot.&quot; Busby does not reconcile these differences.<br />While Busby uses logic and reason to flesh out his thesis, he occasionally takes supposition and speculation to the stretching point.  This is most evident in his effort to show that the supposed 'Aurora incident' actually happened (many ufologists think it a hoax), but that it was an airship reportedly seen earlier that day experiencing mechanical difficulties near another Texas town.  As those familiar with the Aurora &quot;crash&quot; will recall, the craft that allegedly exploded was piloted by what was described by witnesses as &quot;a Martian.&quot;  Busby seems convinced that this was in fact a human being, &quot;burned beyond recognition.&quot; However, the reports published at the time state that the &quot;Martian&quot; pronouncement was based upon witnesses finding &quot;enough of the original&quot; (i.e. non-burned body parts, probably limbs) to determine that the pilot was not human.  It seems reasonable that a scant 30 years after the carnage of the Civil War, people could identify a human body, regardless of how badly burned.<br />Busby is to be commended for the obvious time, effort and attention to detail that went into this book. He lays out the day-by-day reports (from the actual newspapers), and uses this information most effectively in tracing the probable movements of airships (there were several, according to Busby).  He applies his no-nonsense, analytical background and pieces together a fascinating scenario involving very real people who did some truly amazing things well before the Wright brothers at Kitty Hawk.  He offers people, places, connections, resources, motivation and execution. One could comfortably be done with the mystery by accepting Busby's thesis, and it is tempting to do so. Yet there is still something nagging about the whole thing.<br />During the reading of this book, I received an unexpected phone call, which led me to later pull out my copy of John Keel's 1970 book 'Operation Trojan Horse' (in which Keel offers his reading of the 1897 airship mystery). I'd read it many years ago, but found myself putting Busby's book aside and quickly re-reading Keel. I then went back and finished Busby's book.  For those unfamiliar with Keel, he offers a very provocative, intriguing but very &quot;fringe&quot; solution to the airship mystery.  According to Keel, the 1897 airship mystery was but one series of manifestations of a continuum of strange experiences, which include everything from poltergeists to fairies, from 'foo fighters' and 'ghost rockets' to contemporary UFO sightings.  Keel rules out hoaxes, mass hallucinations, extraterrestrials and terrestrial humans. Rather, they (and everything associated with them, including the occupants) are a kind of three-dimensional projection that are actually seen and experienced by people, but are illusory.  They are, in Keel's mind, injected into the human experience by entities he termed 'ultraterrestrials' who are denizens of a world of different &quot;vibrations&quot; that occupy the same space as we do.  He posits a purpose behind these illusory constructs.  I found that as I read &quot;Solving the 1897 Airship Mystery', I was assessing it on two levels: Busby's nuts-and-bolts solution and Keel's paranormal take.  It was an interesting experience.<br />As stated earlier, Busby has presented a 'solution' that is easy to accept, and that does provide a rational, logical and somewhat conventional explanation for the 1897 airship mystery.  For those who like a neat, tidy and conventional explanation for the seemingly inexplicable, Busby's book is recommended.  But there are still sufficient loose ends and contradictory elements to leave the door open to the possibility of other 'solutions'.  Still, 'Solving the 1897 Airship Mystery' is a good read, and is well worth adding to your library.<br />Add-on comment, July 15, 2004: In response to 'Semper Fi'...he apparently did not read my review very thoroughly. I stated at the outset that I'd always thought the whole episode was likely of human origin. I am not in the business of &quot;selling UFOs&quot; or anything else to the public, do not have my head in the sand, and certainly do not need his nor anyone else's &quot;forgiveness.&quot; However, it sure was swell of him to be so magnanimous.and it is tempting to do so. Yet there is still something nagging about the whole thing.  <br />During the reading of this book, I received an unexpected phone call, which led me to later pull out my copy of John Keel's 1970 book 'Operation Trojan Horse' (in which Keel offers his reading of the 1897 airship mystery). I'd read it many years ago, but found myself putting Busby's book aside and quickly re-reading Keel. I then went back and finished Busby's book.  For those unfamiliar with Keel, he offers a very provocative, intriguing but very &quot;fringe&quot; solution to the airship mystery.  According to Keel, the 1897 airship mystery was but one series of manifestations of a continuum of strange experiences, which include everything from poltergeists to fairies, from 'foo fighters' and 'ghost rockets' to contemporary UFO sightings.   Keel rules out hoaxes, mass hallucinations, extraterrestrials and terrestrial humans. Rather, they (and everything associated with them, including the occupants) are a kind of three-dimensional projection that are actually seen and experienced by people, but are illusory.  They are, in Keel's mind, injected into the human experience by entities he termed 'ultraterrestrials' who are denizens of a world of different &quot;vibrations&quot; that occupy the same space as we do.  He posits a purpose behind these illusory constructs.  I found that as I read &quot;Solving the 1897 Airship Mystery', I was assessing it on two levels: Busby's nuts-and-bolts solution and Keel's paranormal take.  It was an interesting experience.<br />As stated earlier, Busby has presented a 'solution' that is easy to accept, and that does provide a rational, logical and somewhat conventional explanation for the 1897 airship mystery.  For those who like a neat, tidy and conventional explanation for the seemingly inexplicable, Busby's book is recommended.  But there are still sufficient loose ends and contradictory elements to leave the door open to the possibilityof other 'solutions'.  Still, 'Solving the 1897 Airship Mystery' is a good read, and is well worth adding to your library.<br />Add-on comment, July 15, 2004: In response to 'Semper Fi'...he apparently did not read my review very thoroughly. I stated at the outset that I'd always thought the whole episode was likely of human origin. I am not in the business of &quot;selling UFOs&quot; or anything else to the public, do not have my head in the sand, and certainly do not need his nor anyone else's &quot;forgiveness.&quot; However, it sure was swell of him to be so magnanimous.	2004-06-11
US	53065656	RH60ZD4AB0934	1903111013	645227410	English Gothic: A Century of Horror Cinema	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Definitive and absorbing.	As a huge fan of horror and science fiction films of the 'Golden Age' of the genre, I've always had a particular fondness for the (generally) more sophisticated and cerebral output of the British studios.  As was the case for many of my generation ('baby boomers'), my introduction to these great films began with the legendary Hammer Studio's remakes of the classic Universal monster films, kicked off by the seminal Peter Cushing/Christopher Lee vehicle 'The Curse of Frankenstein'.  I recall being scared silly as a child by the indelible image of Christopher Lee's bloodshot, snarling visage in the staircase scene from the superb 'Horror of Dracula', of having my heart race with excitement while watching Lee's turn as 'The Mummy', and, like a drug addict, anxiously awaiting the next chiller to be exported to U.S. movie screens.  For those who harbor similar memories, 'English Gothic' is for you (this review is of the 2nd edition).<br />There have been numerous other books that took a turn at this historically important product, but none (at least that I've read) comes close to this book's comprehensiveness, style and sheer reading pleasure.  Author Jonathan Rigby (an actor himself) infuses this masterful work with insightfulness and attention to detail that could well serve as a model for others.  Beginning with a chapter titled 'British Horror in Embryo', it concludes with the sad (but accurately titled) final chapter, 'British Horror in Retreat'.  In between one will find a veritable treasure trove of detail, the effect of which is to present the reader with a unique contribution that is at once both somewhat scholarly yet readily accessible.  While this loving treatment of British horror films (broadly defined, as it encompasses related mystery and science fiction titles as well) stands on its own, the book offers much more.  It provides for a fascinating sociological context as well: the output of British studios, both in quantity and theme, reflect the socio/political milieu of the times.  In addition, it does what no similar book has done, which is to provide a sense of what British Gothic film making was really like.  It's almost like being an invisible observer, hovering over the studios during production.  Even movie fans that do not care for horror films would find this aspect of the book worthwhile.<br />The book's 260-plus pages give appropriate focus on the aforementioned grandfather of British horror, Hammer, without cutting short the contributions of other notable studios (such as Amicus and Tigon), as well as the sometimes complex co-production arrangements between these studios and those of other countries (for example, the collaborations between Hammer and such American production companies as AIP, Universal and Warners).  Such detail is very informative.  It's surprising how many such films, perceived as American, were in fact British productions (such as 'Fiend Without a Face' and 'First Man into Space').<br />While American readers will find themselves at a slight disadvantage with the lack of familiarity with references to established British character actors, television programs, scene locations and the occasional slang phrase, this is a minor distraction.  If you're a fan of British horror/science fiction, or simply of film making in general, 'English Gothic' deserves a place in your library.ical milieu of the times.  In addition, it does what no similar book has done, which is to provide a sense of what British Gothic film making was really like.  It's almost like being an invisible observer, hovering over the studios during production.  Even movie fans that do not care for horror films would find this aspect of the book worthwhile.<br />The book's 260-plus pages give appropriate focus on the aforementioned grandfather of British horror, Hammer, without cutting short the contributions of other notable studios (such as Amicus and Tigon), as well as the sometimes complex co-production arrangements between these studios and those of other countries (for example, the collaborations between Hammer and such American production companies as AIP, Universal and Warners).  Such detail is very informative.  It's surprising how many such films, perceived as American, were in fact British productions (such as 'Fiend Without a Face' and 'First Man into Space').<br />While American readers will find themselves at a slight disadvantage with the lack of familiarity with references to established British character actors, television programs, scene locations and the occasional slang phrase, this is a minor distraction.  If you're a fan of British horror/science fiction, or simply of film making in general, 'English Gothic' deserves a place in your library.	2004-05-21
US	53065656	R3GR3WDP3RKWSD	0806522992	75142602	Strange Skies: Pilot Encounters With Ufos	Books	4	35	37	N	Y	An important contribution to the field.	Well-known ufologist Jerome Clark's 'Strange Skies' provides a fascinating look at an important component of the UFO enigma.  This work represents a unique contribution, much as the late Ivan T. Sanderson did with his seminal 1970 book 'Invisible Residents', which detailed UFO sightings associated with the oceans, seas and other bodies of water.<br />Beginning with such early phenomena as foo fighters and ghost rockets, Clark lays down a historical record of &quot;the more interesting, suggestive reports...&quot; (although they comprise a rather small percentage of the total on file).  A large number of these pilot/UFO reports are from the 1940s and 1950s (including, of course, the famed Kenneth Arnold episode), although some are more contemporary, such as the Valentich case and the JAL incident of 1986.  Regardless of the sightings' vintage, the author does a superb job in fleshing out the factual details of the events.  Clark's writing style infuses his recounting with a hard-to-put-down sense of awe and fascination for the reader.<br />While Clark generally avoids analysis or speculation, there are some notable exceptions.  He persuasively discredits the so-called 'Maury Island incident', and attempts to do the same regarding the 1948 Thomas Mantell case (where pilot Mantell was killed chasing an alleged UFO), although somewhat less convincingly. While he makes a plausible case that Mantell was actually pursuing a a secret, experimental balloon, Mantell's last words to ground control (&quot;a metallic object...of tremendous size&quot;) leaves some room for doubt. The comments I had the most trouble with, however, were regarding a sighting in 1965 by Jim Cumber, detailed in the Dec. 2000 issue of The Mutual UFO Network's (MUFON) magazine.  This sighting involved an alleged 'snatching' of a jet interceptor by a UFO.  After more than 30 years of studying the UFO phenomenon myself, I cannot share Clark's conviction that &quot;the Air Force could not hide a missing interceptor and its crew.&quot;  He adds the rather puzzling comment that &quot;Whatever Cumber's sighting was about, it cannot have been what he thought it was about.&quot;  He offers no speculation as to what &quot;it was about,&quot; but the inference is that it was a secret military exercise. Perhaps.<br />These quibbles aside, 'Strange Skies' is a well-written, absorbing book. It is a welcome (and overdue) addition to the annals of ufology.rceptor and its crew.&quot;  He adds the rather puzzling comment that &quot;Whatever Cumber's sighting was about, it cannot have been what he thought it was about.&quot;  He offers no speculation as to what &quot;it was about,&quot; but the inference is that it was a secret military exercise. Perhaps.<BR>These quibbles aside, 'Strange Skies' is a well-written, absorbing book. It is a welcome (and overdue) addition to the annals of ufology.	2004-04-12
US	53065656	RMNILPQEQPAEZ	0764315218	612972014	Cameras for Collectors (Schiffer Book for Collectors (Paperback))	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	A fascinating, high-quality pictorial of cool collectibles.	'Cameras for Collectors' is a well-produced visual overview of &quot;many of the most famous and historically significant cameras ever produced from the 1930s through the 1990s&quot; (as the liner notes state). The book is composed of 12 chapters, dealing with everything from reflex cameras to Miscellaneous (film, flash attachments, cases, etc.). There is an abundance of differing brands and variations of cameras presented, which provides for an absorbing excursion into camera history. While not definitive, the book is quite comprehensive, and the photographs of the cameras are stunning<br />The scope of the book, as defined by the author, &quot;consists mainly of cameras I have collected myself or borrowed...&quot; True to word, the book reflects the taste of the author; for example, Faragher's interest in old movie cameras yields a full section on them.<br />There is one curious, and notable, omission. In the chapter on 110 cameras (quite popular for many years), the author provides a great review of the numerous models made, but leaves out the Pentax 110 Auto SLR, the highest quality and most collectible of all 110s.<br />The book provides common-sense guidelines regarding camera value, sources of acquisition and many useful pointers. Coupled with the superb production and intrinsic interest, this is a great addition for any camera buff.	2004-02-21
US	53065656	RCLK9YRWGGH07	0340696125	915482501	Gods of the New Millennium	Books	5	55	58	N	N	A well-written, logical and intriquing exposition.	It's true that this book assumes the basic veracity of Sitchin's work, and employes it as the underpinnings of his treatment. While other reviewers note this with muted criticism, the fact is that Sitchin has never been refuted.  Criticized greatly, yes, but not effectively refuted. Given this, there is no valid reason not to accept Sitchin and the others cited in this book in an evidential manner.  If mainstream science can adopt specious, illogical assumptions as the basis for much of what becomes &quot;conventional wisdom&quot;, it is reasonable to embrace alternative, but more internally logical, interpretations on which to build a case.  If one accepts this, then indeed the author has made the case for &quot;scientific proof of flesh and blood gods.&quot;<br />Whether one agrees with Alford's book or not, 'Gods of the New Millennium' does reconcile many disparate elements (religions, myths, archeological and geological records, etc.) into a cohesive whole, something not done by any other writer (to my knowledge, anyway).  Add to this the fact that the book is imminently readable and absolutely absorbing, and it becomes difficult to fathom what more a book can offer.<br />Among the many fascinating notions put forth by Alford (with skillful logic) is that the &quot;gods&quot; (aliens) &quot;operate in eras of 2,160 years&quot;, and that we have been in a &quot;hands off&quot; period.  Alford speculates that the next active era (of involvement of the gods in man's affairs) would commence somewhere between the turn of the 21st century and 2012.  He poses the question as to what might indicate that the gods have re-engaged themselves in our lives.  Although the book was published in 1996, the author's comments seem either amazingly coincidental or chillingly prophetic: &quot;Life might appear to carry on as normal, but with a new political agenda.  We might detect their presence in inexplicable events, changes in government policy or acts of war that don't quite make sense, and perhaps an increase in government secrecy.&quot;<br />Those intrepid souls who dare to consider alternative origins for man will find an exhilarating, thought-provoking and persuasive offering in 'Gods of the New Millennium'.  Highly recommended.ke sense, and perhaps an increase in government secrecy.&quot;<br />Those intrepid souls who dare to consider alternative origins for man will find an exhilarating, thought-provoking and persuasive offering in 'Gods of the New Millennium'.  Highly recommended.	2003-03-29
US	53065656	R1VUFBBBN92AY5	1880090414	295765	The Great UFO Hoax: The Final Solution to the UFO Mystery	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Maybe not the "final solution", but an important work.	Several years ago, as I was browsing in a bookstore, I picked up this title, quickly scanned it and put it back, thinking it just another UFO debunking book.<br />Recently, I found a copy in a book closeout sale and bought it.  Now that I've read it, I realize my initial impression was wrong.  This is a very well written, solidly researched book which is thought provoking and troubling; it should be read anyone interested in the UFO phenomenon, be they 'true believer' or open-minded skeptic.<br />As I read the book, reflections of past curiosities I've noted over the years came flooding back: The many reports of UFOs sighted near military installatios; Ronald Reagan's repeated public comments about \\"aliens from space\\" threatening the world; Douglas MacArthur's warnings about future wars with aliens; the suspicious Rendlesham Forest UFO incident (with all reports coming from the military); the increase in sightings of triangular shaped objects with Stealth-like appearance; 'abductees'reporting military personnel alongside 'aliens'during the abduction, and the well-documented reality of government directed disinformation efforts regarding UFOs.<br />While I had always felt that many UFO sightings were super-secret 'black ops' projects, I was not prepared for the author's conclusions:  UFOs are real, and are the product of the U.S. military.  They are being used for the grandest psyc ops program imaginable, to create the ILLUSION of an alien invasion.  As to why, the author provides a sobering and very feasible reason.  It is but a series of illusory 'wars' designed to maintain an engorged military-industrial complex, and to develop a perceived \\"need for the permanent presence of the military in the internal affairs of the United States.\\"  The author offers some very convincing reasons to support this chilling scenario.<br />This is an excellent read.  For me, however, it falls short in offering a \\"final solution to the UFO mystery.\\"  Mr. Kanton really does not address how such tremendously advanced technology came into the military's possession, other than to suggest it was derived from Nazi saucer technology captured at the end of WW11.  He dismisses reports of UFOs prior to 1947 (the \\"modern era\\") as \\"lacking in scientific authenticity\\" and being \\"most likely misidentifications of astronomical and terrestrial phenomena...\\"  The problem here is that there are numerous, unchallenged photos of UFOs dating back decades before Kenneth Arnold's sighting, not to mention detailed depictions of odd craft in historical paintings (mostly religious themes), ancient texts describing them and cave paintings of (apparent) UFOs dating back to antiquity.  UFOs did not just show up in 1947.  Kanon also suggests that Hollywood movies and the popular media have been duplicitous in fostering the idea of an alien invasion, depicting aliens as evil.  He ignores such blockbusters as 'ET' and 'Close Encounters of the Third Kind', which cast aliens in a benign light.  Morever, the idea of invasion by space aliens goes back at least as far as H.G. Wells' 'War of the Worlds', and probably a lot earlier.<br />No, 'The Great UFO Hoax' does not give \\"the final solution to the UFO mystery.\\"  Nonetheless, this is a serious and important book that should be read by a broader range than just UFO buffs.<br />While many UFOs may well be from a non-earthly origin, this does not rule out what the author proposes as being true. We should, as he states it, \\"watch our backs.\\"h tremendously advanced technology came into the military's possession, other than to suggest it was derived from Nazi saucer technology captured at the end of WW11.  He dismisses reports of UFOs prior to 1947 (the \\"modern era\\") as \\"lacking in scientific authenticity\\" and being \\"most likely misidentifications of astronomical and terrestrial phenomena...\\"  The problem here is that there are numerous, unchallenged photos of UFOs dating back decades before Kenneth Arnold's sighting, not to mention detailed depictions of odd craft in historical paintings (mostly religious themes), ancient texts describing them and cave paintings of (apparent) UFOs dating back to antiquity.  UFOs did not just show up in 1947.  Kanon also suggests that Hollywood movies and the popular media have been duplicitous in fostering the idea of an alien invasion, depicting aliens as evil.  He ignores such blockbusters as 'ET' and 'Close Encounters of the Third Kind', which cast aliens in a benign light.  Morever, the idea of invasion by space aliens goes back at least as far as H.G. Wells' 'War of the Worlds', and probably a lot earlier.<BR>No, 'The Great UFO Hoax' does not give \\"the final solution to the UFO mystery.\\"  Nonetheless, this is a serious and important book that should be read by a broader range than just UFO buffs.<BR>While many UFOs may well be from a non-earthly origin, this does not rule out what the author proposes as being true. We should, as he states it, \\"watch our backs.\\"	2003-01-02
US	53065656	R34NYQMPZW5TE9	1893162583	402291647	The Great Harpazo Deception	Books	3	14	16	N	N	Action-packed affirmation for True Believers	The Great Harpazo Deception is a fictional work which purports to reveal the 'real story of UFOs'. As such, there are two levels to assess this novel. The premise of the book is a \\"battle for the souls of men\\" between the forces of Satan and God, as seen through the eyes of the main character, a Messianic Jew...The stage is set, then, for a thrill ride of a novel.<br />There is good character development, plot twists galore, and more action than an Arnold Schwarzenegger movie...<br />The case for this showing the \\"real story of UFOs\\" is quite debatable.  It essentially echoes the view espoused by most fundamentalist Christian leaders, that UFOs are demonic entities.<br />Those who view the phenomenon differently will find it a hard sell.  Moreover, regardless of one's views of UFOs, those who hold religious or philosophical views different than what is conveyed in the book (i.e. Mormons, Buddhists, Hindus, Muslims, secular humanists, agnostics, etc.) will likely react in ways ranging from dismissive to finding it outright offensive.<br />As an action novel, the book has much to commend itself. As an answer to the UFO enigma, it really depends upon your point of view.	2002-08-13
US	53065656	R2ZSW6Q6J65UD3	1931743401	93878823	Blindsided: Planet X Passes in 2003- Earthchanges!	Books	5	18	24	N	N	Informative and disturbing.	Although published in 2001, this book has reportedly been delayed in distribution, in order to minimize its effect on the general public.  The effect, if the book is accurate, would be nothing less than wholesale panic and the dissolution of society.<br />The author, although admittedly not a scientist, has presented a very credible and disturbing work.  According to Mark Hazelwood (with some empirical support), a brown dwarf star (Planet X, or its astronomical tag 2001 KX76) has been discovered by two major observatories in 1983.  This object, which is denser than earth and which has a powerful magnetic field, has an elliptical orbit which takes it from the outer to inner reaches of our solar system every 3,600 years.<br />According to the author, this brown dwarf (actually red in color) is causing disturbances in the orbits of many celestial bodies on the outer rings of our solar system, and is being pulled towards our sun by their mutual gravitational fields.  Citing archeological and geological evidence, as well as mythology and biblical prophecies, Hazelwood presents a chilling scenario.  At the current rate of travel, Planet X will pass near the earth within the next year.  As the object comes closer, it will become visible to the naked eye, appearing as a &quot;red cross&quot; in the sky.  The author makes the case that the strange weather of recent years are early manifestations of the gravitational effect on earth by 2001 KX76.  At a certain distance from the earth, there will be a dramatic (and rapid) pole shift, effectively destroying much of the life on this planet.  This information has been kept from the general public (it's not &quot;global warming&quot; or &quot;el nino&quot; causing the havoc); there is nothing that can be done to avert it.  By denying it, those in power can squeeze every last penny from an unsuspecting public before they scurry off to their well-fortified escape facilities.<br />Hazelwood has written this book, he states, in order to allow people to prepare for survival, or at least to prepare mentally and spiritually for the cataclysm that will result from the object's approach.<br />Supported by some strong arguments, 'Blindsided' is thought provoking and will cause many anxiety.  Interestingly, the book is classified as 'science', not 'New Age' or 'speculation'.<br />Those who read the book can independently find collaboration from many sources for much of what is presented.  Buy it and read it now, and share it with others.ow people to prepare for survival, or at least to prepare mentally and spiritually for the cataclysm that will result from the object's approach.<BR>Supported by some strong arguments, 'Blindsided' is thought provoking and will cause many anxiety.  Interestingly, the book is classified as 'science', not 'New Age' or 'speculation'.<BR>Those who read the book can independently find collaboration from many sources for much of what is presented.  Buy it and read it now, and share it with others.	2002-06-15
US	53065656	R2N2HRVAA4DJKK	0971427267	188154527	The Greatest Deception - The Bible UFO Connection	Books	5	54	66	N	N	Truth, clarity and understanding.	The idea that extraterrestrials were the \\"gods\\" of ancient religious and mythological texts is not new.  Even before the hugely popular books by Von Daniken, authors like Brinsley Le Poer Trench were mining the same vein in 'The Sky People', and more recently have been works like 'The Many Waters'by Lauretta Lueck and the revelatory 'The Yahweh Encounters'by Ann Madden Jones. With the publication of 'The Greatest Deception', author Patrick Cooke provides what may arguably be the capstone to this series of intellectual inquiries.  While resisting the tendency of others to offer subjective interpretation, he lets the facts make the compelling case for the true meaning of Biblical writings: that mankind (and the planet's biosphere) are the products of technologically advanced beings, and that organized religion has purposely been deceiving humanity from the outset regarding this truth, and what it portends for the future.<br />The book is divided into four main sections.  In the first section (The Bible Connection), the author painstakingly documents passages from the Bible (King James version), with attribution, to show conclusively that these were efforts to depict high technology by writers in a \\"primitive and no-tech  time.\\" He offers specific, Biblical language to demonstrate descriptions of vehicles, flight, technology of the Gods, technology of life and the Immortals (super beings). A typical example (of flight): Zechariah 5:1 \\"Then I turned, and lifted mine eyes, and looked, and behold a flying roll. 2. And he said unto me, What seest thou? And I answered, I see a flying roll; the length thereof is twenty cubits, and the breadth ten cubits.\\"<br />In the second section (The Historical Connection), the author presents a chronological summary of high-tech craft (UFOs) throughout history, UFO quotations from prominent people and various UFO-related military and scientific projects.<br />Part three (The World Connection) includes fascinating accounts of terrestrial anomalies, anomalous constructions, human anomalies and the world's gods.  The cumulative effect of this section is to nail the coffin shut on the specious, illogical \\"explanations\\" perpetrated by mainstream science, academia and governments.  The fallacy of evolution is rendered particulary bankrupt of legitimacy.<br />The fourth and final section (Bible Misconceptions) unmasks the purposeful deception by organized religion regarding the true meaning of scripture, and the lessons imparted to man by the Elohiym and their leader, Yhovah (God)and the reasons for the deception.  The reasons, of course, are \\"greed and lust for power.\\"<br />What, then, is the \\"greatest deception?\\"  That UFOs and 'aliens' are the modern-day manifestations of Satan.  As Mr. Cooke accurately notes, \\"The religious community as a whole has one generic approach to the current debate over the UFO phenomenon; it is Satan's deception...\\" (for a veritable textbook example of this perversion, read 'Alien Encounters' by Missler and Eastman)<br />No, UFOs are not Satan's minions.  They may well be, however, the signs of Jesus' return, as prophesied in the Bible.  \\"The only admonition to watch the skies for anything is the declaration that that is where the returning Christ will first appear.\\"<br />This book provides an invaluable tool to assist critically thinking people to unchain themselves from the self-promoting, cynical and manipulative deceptions foisted upon humankind by the religious dogmatists.  Kudos to Mr. Cooke.anomalies, anomalous constructions, human anomalies and the world's gods.  The cumulative effect of this section is to nail the coffin shut on the specious, illogical \\"explanations\\" perpetrated by mainstream science, academia and governments.  The fallacy of evolution is rendered particulary bankrupt of legitimacy.<br />The fourth and final section (Bible Misconceptions) unmasks the purposeful deception by organized religion regarding the true meaning of scripture, and the lessons imparted to man by the Elohiym and their leader, Yhovah (God)and the reasons for the deception.  The reasons, of course, are \\"greed and lust for power.\\" <BR>What, then, is the \\"greatest deception?\\"  That UFOs and 'aliens' are the modern-day manifestations of Satan.  As Mr. Cooke accurately notes, \\"The religious community as a whole has one generic approach to the current debate over the UFO phenomenon; it is Satan's deception...\\" (for a veritable textbook example of this perversion, read 'Alien Encounters' by Missler and Eastman)<BR>No, UFOs are not Satan's minions.  They may well be, however, the signs of Jesus' return, as prophesied in the Bible.  \\"The only admonition to watch the skies for anything is the declaration that that is where the returning Christ will first appear.\\"<br />This book provides an invaluable tool to assist critically thinking people to unchain themselves from the self-promoting, cynical and manipulative deceptions foisted upon humankind by the religious dogmatists.  Kudos to Mr. Cooke.	2002-05-21
US	53065656	R212DXAD7RHRM8	1878398148	299589738	The Gift : The Crop Circles Deciphered	Books	4	23	24	N	N	Intriguing and original.	The Gift is a thought-provoking examination of the phenomenon of &quot;crop circles&quot; (glyphs or pictograms). By employing a novel and creative approach to understanding these images (derived from &quot;common sense and intuition&quot;), Ruby extrapolates from the two-dimensional glyphs three-dimensional models, with eye-popping results. Ruby concludes from his research that the pictograms originate from extraterrestrial entities. He believes the sequence of the appearance of these images are building blocks to man's understanding of messages. These messages have begun with a description of UFO's physical structure and propulsion systems. These glyphs provide ever-more information as they progress in complexity.<br />Whether Ruby's &quot;decoding&quot; is correct or not, it is facile to dismiss the reality of a true mystery. It is certainly correct that many of these &quot;circles&quot; are hoaxes. There was even a &quot;crop circle making&quot; competition in England. However, research by scientists like Charles Levengood and Nancy Talbott have shown empirically that &quot;real&quot; crop circles show changes at the cellular level (which can be replicated by short, intense bursts of microwave energy). There is also no breakage of the stalks of the plants, only bending. This cannot be done by hoaxers. Aside from that, the notion that two English geezers and copycats are creating thousands of such glyphs worldwide, showing complex fractal geometry patterns, and leaving no trace of their presence, is ridiculous. The recent (Aug.01) Chilbolton, England glyphs will sorely test the hoax hypothesis. Carl Sagan offered his biased, mechanistic view, conveniently ignoring that which did not fit; Jim Schnabel ('Dark White')seems to be more of a debunker than an open-minded skeptic. Both provide a convenient out for those who prefer their ordered and safe world view. If you aren't afraid to consider other possibilities, however, this work will deliver.	2001-10-09
US	53065656	R6XW5N3R73TUV	0738836117	979648551	The Missing Times	Books	5	21	22	N	N	A revealing and disturbing work.	'The Missing Times' is a darkly fascinating analysis of how the mainstream media have been used by government intelligence groups to control information and manipulate the public.<br />While the book is a superb case study of how significant UFO events, well-reported at local levels, are either altered, marginalized or completely censored by the national media, the real value of the book goes much further. It provides a solidly documented expose of how our world view is shaped by forces not even imagined by most Americans; how the claim of &quot;national security&quot; has been invoked to hide from the public not only legitimate defense-related information, but incompetence, dishonesty and illegal activity as well.<br />It's a shame that this book will likely be read by a relatively small number of people, mostly those with an interest in UFOs.  It should be required reading for every journalism student in the country.  In fact, it should be read by anyone who still believes in our system of democracy.  It will inform, shock and anger.	2001-09-20
US	53065656	RIFRO4YBJM6OL	044023557X	94758904	Martian Genesis: The Extraterrestrial Origins of the Human Race	Books	2	5	5	N	N	Little connection between the title and what is delivered.	Although this book does present some intriquing archeological anomalies, and thought-provoking speculation, it fails to even come close to delivering the goods. The author revisits ground well-trodden ('face on Mars', ancient mysteries, mythology-as-fact), but offers nothing new. It is disjointed, and seems to have been put together hastily. Sub-par.	2001-08-26
US	53065656	R2I3G681TPTPFW	0810838818	5793863	The UFO Evidence - Volume 2 : A Thirty Year Report	Books	5	31	31	N	Y	Head and shoulders above most UFO books.	Continuing with the fact-laden approach taken in both 'The UFO Evidence', Vol.1 and the 1988 book 'Uninvited Guests', Mr.Hall had provided the UFO researcher with a wealth of information.  As other reviewers point out, Mr. Hall embraces the ETH (Extraterrestrial Hypothesis) as the most likely sources of (at least some) UFO sightings, while acknowledging the possible merits of alternative views (extra-dimensional, parallel universes, etc.).  The structure of the book allows researchers quick access to specific aspects of the phenomena, breaking reports down by type of witness (military, pilot, police witnesses), waves and concentrations, motions and flight patterns, historical developments and lots more. Although somewhat pricey, this massive work will be used for years to come by researchers and serious students of the UFO enigma.  As another reviewer noted, books like this are typically limited in run; a much better investment (and it is an investment)than a stack of the typical sensationalized UFO books one generally finds.  This is as close to empiricism as is likely to be found in this arcane field.  Highly recommended.	2001-08-14
US	53065656	R10BM7SM6B5CQ9	3980587630	556471271	Ufo: Richard Brunswick Photocollection	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An eye-popping collection of rare UFO photographs.	This is a unique book.  It contains very little text, but is chock full of some of the most intriquing UFO photos to be seen anywhere.  The pictures range from the typically grainy and poor to surprisingly clear.  Given that some of these pics date as far back as the early 1920s, and progress chronologically to more recent decades, the variability of image quality is to be expected.  Most of these photos have never been published before, and some of them  are truly amazing.  Although the author himself acknowleges that &quot;some may be hoaxes&quot;, the age of most of these photos suggest they are in fact legitimate.  There are some weaknesses; very little (if any) supporting documentation behind each photo, and many typos and spelling errors.  However, I consider it a very worthy and welcome addition to my 500 book plus UFO library.  I have poured through this book without interruption several times already, and I just got it for Christmas.  It's worth the price!	2000-12-27
US	53065656	R2ZPRZF9GNT80U	0968709001	103164531	The Many Waters	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	A thoughtful and fascinating take on man's origin.	This work has much in common with 'The Yahweh Encounters' by Ann Madden Jones. Both use Biblical sources (mostly the Old Testament) to arrive at the conclusion tha man is the product of genetic manipulation of early hominids by more advanced beings from elsewhere. As she states, &quot;...The LORD of God who made Adam was a highly evolved person from a distant world...in communicatin with the LORD Jehovah&quot;. Jehovah, however, is not the ultimate God. While Jehovah was a higher being than the &quot;LORD&quot; who created Adam, God is &quot;...Energized Light; he has no shape or form-he is Conscious Energy&quot;. The &quot;Lords of the Heavens&quot;, by contrast, were men from other worlds. In other words, there were various levels of entities termed God or Lord or LORD, all working under the prime directive of God the Conscious Energy. While a bit confusing, the author makes a logical case, and provides much food for thought. She reconciles the the story of Creation with science in a masterful way, persuasively arguing that the Biblical seven days of creation represent the creation of the universe and all within, consistent with the Big Bang Theory. For the author, the purpose behind this creation was benevolent; advanced beings worked to eliminate the &quot;rough edges&quot; of early hominids to be more &quot;in the likeness and image of those from more advanced nations (planets) of the cosmos&quot;. Religion, she argues, arose from man; &quot;There are no laws or rituals that must be adhered to from a church, temple or synagogue...&quot; in order to find God.  There are some weaknesses, however. Her notion of a benevolent plan to create man in order for him to reach his true spiritual nature does not address the bloodthirstyness of the God of the Old Testament.  Unlike William Bramley in 'The Gods of Eden', who saw man as having been both created and cruelly exploited by alien entities, Lueck feels that man himself is responsible for the woes visited upon us; we've strayed from our original direction. She also builds much on such things as what Eve (Adam's genetic twin) must have &quot;thought&quot;. Still, this is a provocative and important work, which adds greatly to our efforts to learn the true origins of man and the nature of God.e've strayed from our original direction. She also builds much on such things as what Eve (Adam's genetic twin) must have &quot;thought&quot;. Still, this is a provocative and important work, which adds greatly to our efforts to learn the true origins of man and the nature of God.	2000-12-12
US	53065656	R3J979LA31QTXS	1883319463	929117346	Architects of the Underworld: Unriddling Atlantis, Anomalies of Mars, and the Mystery of the Sphinx	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Mr. Rux has likely solved the mystery behind UFOs.	As a long-time student of the UFO phenomenon, as well as investigator &amp; researcher, I was deeply impressed with this work.  The premise of the author, made with starling clarity, logic and rock-solid research, ties  together,finally ,all of the disparate elements of the enigma; everything  from the &quot;nuts &amp; bolts&quot; view, to inter/extra dimensional;  from the various types of &quot;aliens&quot; described, to abductions,  cattle mutilations, crop circles, Vallee's &quot;control system&quot; and  Keel's &quot;cosmic tricksters&quot;; from disinformation and coverups to  duplicitous &quot;ufologists&quot;; from the anomalies of Mars and the Moon  to the origins of religions and mythologies. This book will be hard to take  by the &quot;true believers&quot; (of an alien presence), but will most  likely be cited in the future as the definitive answer to the UFO mystery.	1999-08-24
US	53065656	R31FDE4JVYPBZJ	0961511125	150169560	The Yahweh Encounters: Bible Astronauts, Ark Radiations and Temple Electronics	Books	5	39	42	N	N	An amazing work too important to ignore.	This scholarly,fascinating work manages to weave the origins of man, religion and UFOs into a truly mind-bending treatment held together by masterful analysis of religious writings (primaily the Old and New  Testaments), solid logic and skillful writing.  The impact of this work is  potentially profound.  It has caused me to look at the world in a different  way.  Be forwarned that this is also a disturbing book, with implications  almost too incredible to contemplate.  The author has performed a service  to mankind with the writing of 'The Yahweh Encounters'.  Not for the  intellectually timid.	1999-05-21
US	53065656	R34JW3T6FG3J11	1567183077	488368415	Time Travelers from our Future: An Explanation of Alien Abduction	Books	2	21	27	N	N	An interesting, if unoriginal, premise, mired in confusion.	As other reviewers point out, this work could have been much stronger than it is, had the author even attempted to apply a veneer of scientific reasoning; instead, he jumps into metaphysical digressions, endlessly  referring to his previous works and theories.  A disjointed, unscientific  exposition which simply does not work.  One would do well to read the  earlier, far superior work by Marc Davenport, 'Visitors from Time'.  At  least he used facets from actual documented sightings to make his case.  It  is also better written than this confusing mess.	1999-04-26
US	53065656	R1XYPKL7XGQ2S0	0762101083	387658068	From other worlds	Books	2	7	9	N	Y	This work raises more questions than it answers.	Hilary Evans clearly knows a lot about the UFO phenomenon, at least in terms of history, theories, etc.  He has written other, similar works.  This effort, however, is puzzling to me. Although not referenced in the title or subtitle, much of the material deals with such phenomena as  ghosts, angels, demons and the like; the apparent connection with UFOs and  aliens is the &quot;otherworldly&quot; aspect.  Also, even when focusing on  UFOs and related issues, the reader is left scratching the head.  Some of  the more well-documented cases are dismissed (Roswell was a mogul balloon  [no mention of the crash test dummies as aliens, although already  published]);the Belgium triangular craft sightings, witnessed by hundreds,  shown on radar and chased by military pilots was most likely U.S.  &quot;stealth&quot; planes; abduction claims are looked at very skeptically  (typical of the European view), especially the use of regressive hypnosis,  popular with American researchers.  Stangely, however, some of the more  fringe ideas are considered as possibly true (i.e. Trevor Constable's  biological UFOs, Nazi saucer bases in Antarctica, etc.).  One could get the  impression that this work was an effort to further discredit and confus; it  did not elucidate.  Add to this the excessive use of garish photos and  graphics, and the fact that Reader's Digest was the publisher, and the  reader is left even more befuddled than ever. All in all, a mixed bag, but  is not really recommended for the serious student of the subject ( or for  anyone, for that matter).	1999-04-12
US	53065656	R2GFF2VYIG1PJJ	0963916122	954018962	Cosmic Test Tube: Extraterrestrial Contact, Theories & Evidence	Books	5	18	19	N	N	May be the best UFO book presently available!	This book is an essential addition to any serious ufologist's library, and  is invaluable in providing a clear, up-to-date understanding of the  evolution of research and theories on the subject. The author skillfully  weaves together, through concise summaries (chronologically) the most  significant works dealing with UFOs, contacts and abductions, to provide  the reader with an excellent understanding of the various theories and  perspectives (including appropriate focus on the skeptics' views, as well).  He adds his own perspectives, steeped in solid logic and reason. The  highest recommendation!	1998-09-28
US	53065656	R18ZLH6C5LV5NB	1881532054	793974327	Black Helicopters over America: Strikeforce for the New World Order	Books	1	8	20	N	Y	Fuel for the paranoid &quot;patriots&quot;, folly for ufologists.	I was at once disappointed and enlightened after reading this book.  Disappointed in that I rather enjoyed two of this author's previous books,  'Casebook on Alternative 3' and 'Casebook on Men in Black', (finding them  to be well-written and thought-provoking), yet found this title to be the  rantings of a paranoid, gun-loving extemist.  Mr. Keith diminishes his  thesis with the use of such comments as &quot;one of Heather's two mommies  might become Attorney General&quot; and referring to Clinton as a  &quot;possible Soviet agent&quot;.  Disappointing also in that there is  nothing in the book for those researching the UFO/black helicopter  connection. At least I now have a better understanding of what the author  is all about, and thus will save my time and money on his recently  published 'Black Helicopters...' Vol.2, hence the enlightenment.	1998-09-25
US	53065656	R11FMXYG4NP91F	077373015X	919811384	The Ufo Files: The Canadian Connection Exposed	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Well-written, meticulously researched and revelatory.	Mr. Campagna serves up a top-notch treatment of an important component of the UFO enigma.  Working on several levels, the author provides the UFO researcher (or just the curious reader) with many little-known examples of well documented sightings form our neighbor to the North, while skillfully weaving a trail of plausible connections between the various Canadian governmental agencies involved with the UFO question and their American counterparts.  He makes a compelling case that many UFO sightings are of craft with very earthly origins, touching upon the alleged Nazi saucer developments, the Canadian AVRO project and the American Silver Bug project, while providing strong support for the reality of &quot;other worldly&quot; sources, as well. It is difficult to read this book without developing a sense of foreboding; if one was not inclined to think seriously about conspiracy before reading this work, it is hard not to afterwards.  A truly fascinating and eye-opening exposition.  A must read!	1997-11-13
US	53065656	R2OD8C4GJOGSRP	0926524429	680007911	At the Threshold : Ufos, Science, and the New Age (The New Millennium Library, V. 2)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	An well-done treatment of the &quot;sociology of ufology&quot;.	Dr. Emmons provides an accurate, though-provoking study of the evolution of the study of the phenomenon, focusing on the many obstacles to serious study, i.e. resistance by 'mainstream science' via groups like CSICOPs,<br />academic myopia, sensationalism of the subject by the media, impediments to disclosure by the government (including disinformation) and infighting among the various 'schools' of ufology.<br />It is heartening to see a serious, empirically based work coming from outside the &quot;ufo community&quot;.  The fact that the author embraces the legitimacy of many hypotheses advanced by researchers in the field helps to peel away layers of obfuscation and denial.  Dr. Emmons is to be commended for this important contribution	1997-07-21
US	53065656	R41S4Q35X3MBI	0809231379	245132882	UFO	Books	1	1	1	N	N	This book is one big let down...caveat emptor!	The author claims this work to be a &quot;mammoth undertaking...&quot; which will &quot;bring you closer to the heart of the controversy...&quot;. Bunk.  This is a rehash of the more conspiracy-laden facets of the UFO phenomenon (Area 51, Roswell, MJ-12, abductions, Face on Mars, etc),  presenting long discredited &quot;facts&quot; as some sort of revelation.  The author promises &quot;recently declassified documents&quot; and &quot;rare photographs&quot;.  What we get are reprints of the MJ-12 papers, photos we've all seen since childhood (including a &quot;mysterious photo&quot; of an alien which has long since been identified as a wax model from a Canadian museum).  There is more filler in here than in a hot dog, such as page after page describing the events in the 'Alien Autopsy'film and lots of quotes from TLC's UFO specials.<br />There is not one original thought in this book.  A real waste of time	1997-07-07
US	53065656	RI2AAZH52JMDQ	0929915135	953353481	West Virginia UFO's: Close Encounters in the Mountain State	Books	3	9	10	N	Y	A worthwhile yet frustrating book whch almost self-destructs	This is an odd work indeed.  On the positive side, it provides UFO researchers with valuable information on the many WVA sightings, both historical and comtemporary, with first-hand investigations.  The negatives, however, are significant: less than tight writing style, inappropriate forays (by the author) into amateur<br />hypnosis of percepients of UFOs, and, most troubling of all, an ending which has seemingly no connection with the rest of the book, whereby Mr. Teets goes on a tirade attacking (especially) Dr. John Mack and his work with &quot;abductees&quot; ,<br />a subject not mentioned in the body of the work.<br />As if this was not bad enough, Mr. Teets' leaves us with this pearl of wisdom...to &quot;pray&quot;	1997-06-30
US	53065656	R1DO4OM184VVN3	1883729025	436622192	Visitors From Time: The Secret of the UFOs	Books	5	15	16	N	N	This is a must-read book for serious ufologists.	Mr. Davenport has skillfully and logically presented a persuasive case that many UFOs may in fact be 'time machines'.  For those who are knowledgeable about the bizarre aspects of many sightings (i.e. missing time, radiation effects, color/shape changes of objects, materializations/dematerializations, etc.), this work will allow many of the pieces to fit together. Using well-documented cases while drawing upon hypotheses of parallel universes and other dimensions developed by quantum physicists, &quot;Visitors from Time' makes a strong contribution to the field.  While one might quibble with the author on some points (he still thinks the MJ-12 documents may be genuine), one cannot deny the merits of his thesis in the context of the historical record of UFOs	1997-06-30
