US	53064759	R1T2XY88FD0TVM	0201707101	89816065	The Rational Unified Process: An Introduction (2nd Edition)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Helps make the complex manageable!	I am very impressed by the Rational Unified Process.  This book does a great job of teaching you how to take the complex process of developing software and making it manageable.  While I have been a part of complex projects before and have worked in an ISO 9001 environment for more than a year, I joined my first software development project that is making use of RUP recently.  I am very impressed that this is &quot;best practices.&quot;  The book is well organized, easy to read, and very educational.  Only a very few times is anything not extremely clear and accessible to even a newcomer to development such as myself.  I would recommend this book be read by all members of a development team to assist in getting everyone speaking the same language and making full use of resources.	2000-11-27
US	53064759	R312PNGUIAS7R9	156205810X	663559807	Designing Web Usability	Books	5	9	16	N	Y	If You Read It, You Will Change Your Web Designs	No book has influenced me to change more in the websites I design than this one.  And many of the changes I have made are just farther along the line I thought I was already following well enough.  Jakob Nielsen is passionate about easy to understand and fast loading pages.  Over and over again throughout the book he makes the point: &quot;the Web is not a way of life for the average user.  Most people simply want to click on a few links and read a few pages - they don't want to mess with web technology for its own sake.&quot;  In this book he introduces the reader to the findings of usability studies and best practices for accommodating users.  I found his screen shots of good and bad web design interesting and helpful.  It seemed to me that most of his material was from 1997.  In any event, the concepts were not dated.<br />I read the book over a period of a month.  I just could not take it in faster.  I began rebuilding the website I have maintained since 1996 - [...] - the day I began to read.  I struggled with many approaches to decreasing the amount of space devoted to navigation while making information on the site easier to find and read.  I came to appreciate Nielsen's emphasis on being practical and doing the best you can rather than attempting perfect adherence to principles of design. I have learned how difficult it is to reset an established site.  I am grateful that I had begun to read this book before I began a recent intranet development project.  My users don't know what benefits they have gained by the influence Jakob Neilsen has had on my work.	2000-10-21
US	53064759	RF4VWBZCEHVBO	007212587X	577786144	SQL Server 2000:  A Beginner's Guide (Book/CD-ROM)	Books	3	45	46	N	Y	A Decent But Uninspiring Guide to SQL Server 2000	This book provides a solid, useful introduction to SQL Server 2000.  The coverage is comprehensive and informative.  The writing is mostly clear and accessible though I was unable to understand a few points that the author covered.  Very few books attempt to cover the Transact-SQL language, database concepts, and server administration in one volume and this one does it fairly successfully.<br />You have to be pretty determined to make it through this book.  The author covers a lot of ground and I did not find it to be particularly engaging.  I coaxed myself through by reading chapters from the section on system administration in parallel with the earlier chapters on SQL language, syntax, and queries that were pretty dry.  I didn't want to skip anything because I did not want to miss any of the new features of SQL 2000.<br />It is clear from this book that the big change between SQL Server versions was between 6.5 and 7.0.  The continuity between 7.0 and 2000 stood out in this reading.  There are significant changes - from data types to syntax to utilities and more, but for those who are familiar with 7.0 the latest version will feel pretty comfortable.<br />I rated the 7.0 version of this book 4 stars and this one 3 stars.  Actually the book is about as good as the previous one but I have read a lot of SQL Server books since then and my expectations have risen.  This isn't a bad book but it is among the dullest treatments I have encountered.<br />Is this a good book for beginners? Yes.  Many readers want a one-volume source and this one meets that need.  If you want to learn SQL Server this book offers the basic education you need.  A few sections will make no sense to a beginner.  They made little sense to me and I'm not a beginner anymore.  But if you keep at it by the end you will have a good general understanding and ability with SQL Server 2000.<br />I picked up this book to prepare for Microsoft's beta exam on SQL Server 2000.  Pre-test I think it does a pretty good job of covering material.  While I found it boring I appreciated the review of Transact-SQL.  I spend more time troubleshooting problems than writing scripts so I had gotten a little rusty.  A reader who is up to speed on SQL Server basics might skip over the first two sections of the book to concentrate on the sections that deal with system administration, analysis services, full-text search, and XML support where more new stuff is introduced.  What is new in the first two sections is very minor.y good job of covering material.  While I found it boring I appreciated the review of Transact-SQL.  I spend more time troubleshooting problems than writing scripts so I had gotten a little rusty.  A reader who is up to speed on SQL Server basics might skip over the first two sections of the book to concentrate on the sections that deal with system administration, analysis services, full-text search, and XML support where more new stuff is introduced.  What is new in the first two sections is very minor.	2000-10-17
US	53064759	R18L11MYR1M7AQ	0201310163	541796228	Visual Modeling With Rational Rose and Uml (Addison-Wesley Object Technology Series)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Good Introduction That Builds Confidence	This is a good introduction to the Rational Rose tool and the Rational method of developing software.  A reader should have a prior introduction to UML even though nothing advanced is presented here.  What the book does best is build your confidence for tackling a large scale project using UML and Rational Rose to develop the object model.  While the book includes some step by step instructions and tracks a development project from beginning to end it is not a definitive guide.  The review is very broad brush.  Terry Quatrani writes very clearly and for the most part fulfills the objectives that she sets out.  There were a couple of points that I could not follow even rereading multiple times and I found myself wanting just a little more explanation of illustrations.	2000-10-09
US	53064759	RXBXHPKHGQ6CU	020165783X	701144034	UML Distilled: A Brief Guide to the Standard Object Modeling Language (2nd Edition)	Books	5	17	22	N	Y	An Informative and Satisfying Guide to UML in OO Design	This is an informative and satisfying guide to using UML in object oriented development.  In relatively few pages the most commonly used aspects of the standard modeling language are presented, explained, and illustrated.  A developer already familiar with an object oriented language could make good use of this book as their first introduction to UML.  For those without any grounding in object orientation I think Sams Teach Yourself UML in 24 Hours or Fundamentals of Object-Oriented Design in UML are better places to start.<br />The thing I liked the most about this book was the practical advice for moving an object oriented project through to completion.  As asides to the explanations of UML syntax and form, the authors dropped in tidbits of advice... &quot;Don't try to do software that exactly maps the conceptual perspective.  Try, instead, to be faithful to the spirit of conceptual perspective but still realistic considering the tools you are using&quot; (p. 150).  This was said in the context of one of the longer chapters in the book, UML and Programming, where the reader is walked through a demonstration of using UML to conceptualize a patient information system for a hospital and then walked through the choices that might be made to implement it in Java.  The authors work with a sample where an ideal solution is out of reach and illustrate instead a pragmatic choice that works.  This kind of thing is done over and over again in the book.  Martin Fowler also refers the reader to his website where he extends this demonstration into greater complexities than the book covered.<br />Since this book is so brief it would be a great choice for an entire team to read together to get everyone on the same page for a project.	2000-09-29
US	53064759	R392H4UV3BQ3BE	0672316366	174708141	Sams Teach Yourself Uml in 24 Hours (Sams Teach Yourself in 24 Hours Series)	Books	4	11	11	N	Y	An Excellent Starting Point!	Joseph Schmuller has crafted an excellent book with which to start  learning UML.  His explanations are generally clear and succinct, his  examples and case studies engaging and comprehensible.  Not only can you  get the hang of UML syntax and methods from this book, he walks you through  a useful development methodology which he calls GRAPPLE - Guidelines for  Rapid Application Engineering.  I am enthusiastic about sharing this book  with everyone at work and am eager to consolidate my learning on a real  project with UML.  I don't think I learned everything I need from this book  and have ordered UML Distilled, Second Edition as a follow up.  The reason  I did not give this book five stars is because I thought the last two  chapters (on embedded systems, GUI, expert systems AND UML) were more  filler than an education in UML.  The book needed to be 24 chapters but I  can't help but believe that something more on topic could have been  covered.  But don't get me wrong, these chapters were interesting, they  just didn't teach as much UML as other chapters.	2000-09-19
US	53064759	R1ZIC3T53M8HU9	020169946X	906222453	Fundamentals of Object-Oriented Design in UML	Books	5	30	31	N	Y	Instructive, Thoughtful, and Compelling	Fundamentals of Object-Oriented Design in UML is a friendly book.  I  enjoyed it.  Meilir Page-Jones maintains a wry sense of humor while  threading through the intricacies of OO development in a clear, instructive  fashion.  The book really does have something for new and experienced  programmers alike.<br />The first two sections of the book are most accessible  to those with little programming experience.  These sections introduce  object orientation and provide a review of the most useful Unified Modeling  Language notations while illustrating their use in software design work.  But throughout the book the author examines critical principles in such a  way that the most experienced software designers will be challenged to  reconsider assumptions and habits and to look more critically at their  work.  The third section of the book is not completely accessible to  readers without substantial development experience but even so has enough  to offer that it should not be skipped by the newcomer to coding.<br />In my  opinion this book is more about design than UML.  If you want an  introduction to UML it might make more sense to read Sams Teach Yourself  UML in 24 Hours.  The introduction to UML in Page-Jones' book is good  enough to be your first look at UML but it is not comprehensive and it is  oriented to illustrating design principles.  This is an excellent book to  start with and I would recommend reading it before anything else on UML.  And I cannot imagine a better book for introducing object-oriented design.  The author has a long track record in structured design and he frequently  relates OO to SD concepts.  The book is language independent but weighted  toward C++.  I only speak Java and had a little trouble with the concept of  parameterized classes because they don't exist in my frame of reference but  this was a very minor problem.	2000-09-16
US	53064759	R16RDDC1KXKANI	1861003668	884111410	Beginning Java 2 - Jdk 1.3 Edition (Programmer to Programmer)	Books	5	68	70	N	N	Beginning Java 2 (JDK 1.3 Edition) is a masterpiece!	Would that I had encountered Ivor Horton when I first sought to learn any  programming!  Beginning Java 2 (JDK 1.3 Edition) is a masterpiece.  I have  been able to stay on track working through one chapter per day doing the  reading and the exercises.  This has been a challenging effort but the  reward has been substantial growth on a daily basis of my understanding and  facility with Java.<br />Because of its size (over 1200 pages), this is not  the place for an absolute beginner to start.  I would recommend Java for  Students for those who are seeking an introduction to programming and Java  at the same time.  This is an excellent book if you have some orientation  to programming, Java or not, and you want to develop a solid base in the  language.  The author notes in the Introduction that the word Beginner in  the title reflects how much he assumes of the reader in his teaching style  rather than anything about the skill level he is trying to develop in the  reader.  The book is thorough and does a good job of covering Java  language, syntax, and the class libraries.<br />I have been very pleased with  how clear the explanations are and how useful the examples and exercises  are for learning Java.  Rather than just code fragments, the author tends  to use code samples to illustrate the points that he makes.  He encourages  typing the samples in yourself and playing with the parameters to get a  feel for what is going on.  This results in having more confidence with the  language while developing your understanding.  In the course of a chapter I  find myself keying in 6 to 8 code samples.<br />I wonder if Ivor Horton began  life as a mathematics professor.  Many of the exercises involved  calculating factorials, prime numbers, the volume of the Sun in cubic  miles, etc.  I have trouble working with these numbers on their own, let  alone developing a computer program to calculate them.  Thankfully, it is  possible to follow the logic even with this unfamiliar material.<br />Wrox  Press offers a website that documents errata that has been found in the  book.  Rather than just site a line here and there, the errata section  often provides a whole block of code with the corrections made.  This makes  it easier to find the changes.  I have not found them to be troubling but I  copied them into a Word document and printed that out so I can correct each  chapter before I read it.<br />Most amazingly, there is a Beginning Java  email list associated with the book that is actively monitored by the  author and a Wrox Press sysop.  Readers report problems they are having  with code or things they don't understand and other readers or the monitors  provide ideas, suggestions, and answers.  I have started a Lotus database  to file things I am mining from the list so I can make use of them in the  future.  The list appears to be a place where both beginners and more  advanced students can learn a lot.<br />Each chapter tends to build on the  chapter before it.  It works best to work through this book from start to  finish.  If you already know Java you might browse chapters to get a better  grounding in a particular area but the author assumes you know what he  covered earlier in the book and the chapters do not stand-alone.ial.<br />Wrox  Press offers a website that documents errata that has been found in the  book.  Rather than just site a line here and there, the errata section  often provides a whole block of code with the corrections made.  This makes  it easier to find the changes.  I have not found them to be troubling but I  copied them into a Word document and printed that out so I can correct each  chapter before I read it.  <br />Most amazingly, there is a Beginning Java  email list associated with the book that is actively monitored by the  author and a Wrox Press sysop.  Readers report problems they are having  with code or things they don't understand and other readers or the monitors  provide ideas, suggestions, and answers.  I have started a Lotus database  to file things I am mining from the list so I can make use of them in the  future.  The list appears to be a place where both beginners and more  advanced students can learn a lot.  <br />Each chapter tends to build on the  chapter before it.  It works best to work through this book from start to  finish.  If you already know Java you might browse chapters to get a better  grounding in a particular area but the author assumes you know what he  covered earlier in the book and the chapters do not stand-alone.	2000-09-05
US	53064759	R1PZR218NYTJYF	0130109223	598550394	Java for Students 1.2	Books	5	6	6	N	N	From Simple to Complex Without Becoming Overwhelming!	For several years I have been struggling with understanding programming.  Networking training often references C or C++ or Visual Basic ideas to illustrate concepts as if everyone understands their basics.  I have beat  my head against a wall trying to follow along with texts on scripting and  Active Server Pages because these books often assume familiarity with  fundamental programming concepts.  I even read SAMS Teach Yourself  Beginning Programming in 24 Hours without learning enough to put everything  together.  And then I found Java for Students by Douglas Bell and Mike  Parr.<br />Java for Students is written for people with absolutely no prior  knowledge of programming.  Books often say things like this and then after  the first chapter or two take off into the skies where it is impossible for  many to follow.  This book taught me to fly!<br />Like many introductory  books you write your first Java program inside the first 20 pages.  And  then the authors continue to provide example after example and more than  100 exercises that build progressively on the information presented until  you really get the hang of programming in Java and understanding  programming concepts - variables, calculations, methods, parameters,  events, decisions, repetition, objects, classes, inheritance, arrays,  string manipulation, exception handling, packages, abstract classes,  interfaces, threads...  My proudest moment was when I scanned through the  Glossary at the very end of the book and really understood all the terms  included.  If you want to understand programming in general and Java  specifically, this is a great place to start.<br />These authors do an  excellent job of presenting essential information in a simple fashion and  then adding more details and complexity as you progress through the book.  They presented code that illustrated concepts and syntax in early chapters  that they added to in subsequent chapters to demonstrate additional  features or problem solving methods.  The result was an opportunity to  develop confidence and familiarity without being overwhelmed with all the  details at once.  At the end of each chapter Bell and Parr included a  Grammar Spot, Programming Pitfalls, New Language Elements, and a Summary.  They did a good job of reinforcing important points.<br />The authors teach in  the UK and the book has a funny mixture of British and US influences.  I  was a little nervous when an exercise invited creating a program to  calculate making change for a soft drink machine in British money but then  they offered an overview of UK coins and a suggestion to work in the common  denominator, pence.  I did not find any difficulties following the  discussions as an American.<br />I noticed more editing problems in the last  third of the book - missing words, mislabeled material.  This was a little  challenging but if you were following along closely you could understand  what was meant.  It was more disconcerting than anything else.<br />The book  refers to a website that provides the source code for all the examples and  demonstrations of their running...I liked this book a lot.  If you  need to start with the basics I think you will too!ving methods.  The result was an opportunity to  develop confidence and familiarity without being overwhelmed with all the  details at once.  At the end of each chapter Bell and Parr included a  Grammar Spot, Programming Pitfalls, New Language Elements, and a Summary.   They did a good job of reinforcing important points.<br />The authors teach in  the UK and the book has a funny mixture of British and US influences.  I  was a little nervous when an exercise invited creating a program to  calculate making change for a soft drink machine in British money but then  they offered an overview of UK coins and a suggestion to work in the common  denominator, pence.  I did not find any difficulties following the  discussions as an American.<br />I noticed more editing problems in the last  third of the book - missing words, mislabeled material.  This was a little  challenging but if you were following along closely you could understand  what was meant.  It was more disconcerting than anything else.<br />The book  refers to a website that provides the source code for all the examples and  demonstrations of their running...I liked this book a lot.  If you  need to start with the basics I think you will too!	2000-08-20
US	53064759	R281RTKC50XEH8	0471183334	219940849	Instant CORBA	Books	2	11	11	N	N	Old, Tacky, And Clearly Written	I needed to understand CORBA very quickly.  This was the onlybook on the shelf at my local bookstore that did not seem way too complex for a beginner so I bought it.  I had done a quick Internet search on CORBA and found a six-page overview that was several years old.  I am afraid that Instant Corba was only a little more useful than those pages.<br />The book is current through 1996 technology and that was a long, long time ago (as of August 2000).  If the authors had concentrated on concepts and ideas rather than getting tangled up with then current commercial implementations of CORBA the book would have more lasting value.  To be fair, they do provide a clear overview of CORBA concepts and mechanisms.  And considering that CORBA 3 is at hand while this book is from the era of CORBA 1 it does a good job of providing a grasp of what distributed object architecture and request brokering is about.<br />If you need a high level over view it works.  I thought the technical sections were great for teaching a manager what CORBA details involve but they were too high level to help if you need to actually code something...<br />I guess I got what I wanted from this book.  The reason it does not get a higher rating from me as an introduction is that it was tacky when it was brand new with it's theme of being a Martian report on CORBA, an intergalactic client/server web technology.  And the cutesy stuff only worsened with age.  Since it is an introduction the authors should have done a better job of choosing and explaining their vocabulary.  Talking about information blobs and object webs with enthusiasm does not really help a beginner to understand what the industry is doing with object sharing to facilitate access to services.  The book talks about middleware frequently and I think they should have presented that as a concept and worked on it's definition.  Finally, the authors kept moving in and out of discussing then current products.  The book frequently sounds like a marketing spiel and yet new ones replaced these products years ago.  Weren't they familiar with upgrades, mergers, and market failures in 1996?marketing spiel and yet new ones replaced these products years ago.  Weren't they familiar with upgrades, mergers, and market failures in 1996?	2000-08-20
US	53064759	R12934NA4O7NDA	1562059440	319626693	Windows NT Terminal Server and Citrix MetaFrame (The Landmark Series)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Superb Introduction to Windows Terminal Server	A customer was demanding that an application be web enabled for them to  stay interested.  There was not enough time to recode the application so we  turned to Terminal Server.  We set the app up on Terminal Services running  on Windows 2000 Advanced Server (RC-1) since that was already running in  our test lab.  We ran into a few hitches making it work so bought this  book.  Even though this book was written for NT it led us through some  configuration changes we needed to make to get the app running properly.  We satisfied the customer with this work around and everyone involved  became fans of this book.<br />After the project was over I took some time to  read through it carefully instead of just looking for solutions.  I was  very pleased that the material is well written and clearly leads the reader  to develop a very sound understanding of Terminal Server and the issues  involved in managing and securing applications running in this environment.<br />To me, a book like this one is supposed to take a generally  knowledgeable person from ignorance to basic competence in the specialty  area.  I had accessed applications over terminal services prior to reading  this book but had never managed them.  This book quickly gave me the  knowledge I needed to feel comfortable administering a Terminal Server.	2000-08-13
US	53064759	R21544M6KTZWDX	0672316129	828619291	Sams Teach Yourself Active Server Pages in 24 Hours	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Solid ASP Training for Programmers	The authors note that the book is for web developers and programmers but suggest that anyone with HTML, SQL, and VBScript experience will benefit.  I learned from this book but it was more of a struggle than I had hoped  because I am not a programmer.  The treatment of HTML, VBScript, and SQL  was clear enough to follow without a substantial background.  I thought too  much space was devoted to simple IIS features.  But the authors talk about  declaring variables, looping, functions, dictionaries, recordsets, etc.  with little or no explanation.  I read the SAMS book on Beginning  Programming a few years ago and that was not enough to carry me here.  For  me the book moved too fast across programming concepts and was a little  slow across issues of server management.  I suppose that has to do with  background but I believe the book could have been improved by explaining  more fully the basic programming concepts involved.<br />The book is a great  education if you are willing to work with the examples.  I failed to get  file includes to work in my development environment despite following  examples precisely but I was able to make other things work pretty well.  Because I tended to bring the examples into existing environments I ran  into a few problems with compatibility issues.  For example, you can't  declare &lt;% @LANGUAGE = VBScript %&gt; in a VBScript section on the same  page as a block of JavaScript.  When I looked carefully I saw that the  authors had warned about that but I needed to learn the hard way.<br />I  really like the 24-hour format for this subject and the authors do a good  job of explaining what they do cover.  The examples were complete, working  ASP code blocks followed by detailed analyses that helped me understand how  things worked.  I found myself marking sections to come back later when I  am on particular projects to steal some of their code and modify it to my  purposes.  I have already taken and modified many blocks of code from ASP  sites on the Internet but the explanations in this book are better than any  I have seen on the Internet.  If you are a programmer this is a great place  to start.  If you are not a programmer, be prepared to dig in.ASP  sites on the Internet but the explanations in this book are better than any  I have seen on the Internet.  If you are a programmer this is a great place  to start.  If you are not a programmer, be prepared to dig in.	2000-08-13
US	53064759	RZU05B58J9JUG	0672309599	406064930	Microsoft SQL Server 6.5 Dba Survival Guide	Books	5	1	1	N	N	We Need This Book To Stay in Print!	As a SQL Server DBA I am often called upon to deal with 6.5 installations.  All my training has been on 7.0 and while many of my peers may have gotten  their start on 4.2 or 6.0 or 6.5, I learned on 7.0 and it is different.  The 6.5 DBA Survival Guide has helped me to figure out how to do things in  6.5 that are done quite differently in 7.0.  I have found it to be an  excellent resource manual for making sense out of how things work.  Online  help in 6.5 is a great disappointment compared to 7.0 so a book like this  is essential.<br />I don't know how to compare this book to others on 6.5  because I have not read any others.  But my readings in this one have  compared very favorably to what I have read in dozens of references dealing  with 7.0.	2000-08-13
US	53064759	R2OD4Q3QW2TYML	0735605173	29102018	Inside Microsoft SQL Server 7.0 (Mps)	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Some of the Best Explanations You Can Find!	This is certainly not a book for beginners and not the place to start  learning SQL Server.  And this is not a comprehensive volume; there are  many things that just aren't covered.  But when I had trouble understanding  something I was dealing with and it was covered here it was done clearly  and well so that I went on with a solid understanding.  This book will mean  more to developers than administrators but I consider it essential for  anyone who aims to develop a mastery of SQL Server.	2000-08-13
US	53064759	RC24ORVLIDJB8	0672312263	385233022	Microsoft SQL Server 7 DBA Survival Guide	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Great Reference With a Focus on How To Do Things	I was thrown into SQL Server work with no training and no mentors.  This  book was a great help.  When you have to make something happen and there is  no one around to ask you can generally find what you need here.  I was  pleased that the writing is clear and easy to follow even when dealing with  obscure subjects.<br />I have used this book to solve problems and to research  configuration settings when troubleshooting performance issues.  At over  1000 pages I am not sure I could have survived reading it as a study guide  and it is really not suited for that.  But if you want a resource that goes  into pretty good depth on subjects, this is an excellent book to consult.	2000-08-13
US	53064759	RB6OTIBRRIJLU	0735708649	643395780	SQL Server 7 Essential Reference (The Essential Reference Series)	Books	5	29	30	N	N	Like Having An Experienced DBA At Your Side	As databases become more and more common, network engineers without prior training are becoming responsible for database administration and they need to become competent quickly.  This book touches base with all the important  points in database and server administration in a clear, concise format  that quickly educates the reader, guides them to important activities, and  steers them around obscure obstacles.<br />Sharon Dooley takes a practical,  hands-on approach to database administration that reflects a wealth of  field experience.  Having read my way through more than 5 SQL books already  I might have passed on one entitled SQL Server 7.0 Essential Reference,  expecting it to be too basic.  What I found was a perceptive field guide to  managing a SQL Server.  This book provides a clear, understandable review  of administration topics that is useful to experienced administrators for  the richness of knowledge revealed while remaining an excellent book for  persons new to database work who need an introduction that is at once  accessible, concise, and relevant.<br />I disagreed with the author about the  value of defragmenting SQL Servers and believe that if she is going to say  that there has been no proof of the value of defrag software she needs to  deal with the findings of the National Software Testing Laboratory on  Diskeeper.  She also says that Microsoft is fuzzy about supporting  defragged databases and yet Diskeeper was one of the first products to gain  the Certified for Windows logo.  I think she is out of date in this area.  I also thought her distrust of third-party backup software needed more  defense as I personally have not run into problems though she alluded to  many.  Other than these specific points I found the material to be  outstanding and I would acknowledge that there is room for disagreement on  these points.<br />For the experienced administrator the book reveals  undocumented and falsely documented issues that can improve administration.  The book is very realistic about what can and cannot be done on a SQL  Server.  I liked the point made that server tuning can only account for  about 10% of performance while the bulk of what really matters is in  database design.<br />Upgrading from 6.X to 7.0 is covered very nicely.  The  author provides useful suggestions for dealing with what might not convert  seamlessly in an upgrade.  I have worked with SQLdiag numerous times.  Sharon Dooley is the first person that has clarified that this utility must  be run directly on the server; it cannot run from a client workstation.  I  liked the way she touched on many of the places where an administrator  could go wrong.  The discussion of SQL Mail reviews how to make it work  with Lotus Notes as well as POP3 and Exchange.  Previously I had thought  that if I did not have an Exchange Server available I could not setup email  alerts.  Books On Line is not as helpful here as is Sharon Dooley.<br />This  book is like having an experienced DBA standing right beside you  interpreting the fine points and telling you about undocumented or  misdocumented features while you do your everyday work.  The general tips  and warnings alone are more than worth the cost of the book.tion.   The book is very realistic about what can and cannot be done on a SQL  Server.  I liked the point made that server tuning can only account for  about 10% of performance while the bulk of what really matters is in  database design.<br />Upgrading from 6.X to 7.0 is covered very nicely.  The  author provides useful suggestions for dealing with what might not convert  seamlessly in an upgrade.  I have worked with SQLdiag numerous times.   Sharon Dooley is the first person that has clarified that this utility must  be run directly on the server; it cannot run from a client workstation.  I  liked the way she touched on many of the places where an administrator  could go wrong.  The discussion of SQL Mail reviews how to make it work  with Lotus Notes as well as POP3 and Exchange.  Previously I had thought  that if I did not have an Exchange Server available I could not setup email  alerts.  Books On Line is not as helpful here as is Sharon Dooley.<br />This  book is like having an experienced DBA standing right beside you  interpreting the fine points and telling you about undocumented or  misdocumented features while you do your everyday work.  The general tips  and warnings alone are more than worth the cost of the book.	2000-07-20
US	53064759	R2TK7YGY0Y9ZAN	1562059483	223977157	Domino System Administration	Books	4	12	14	N	Y	Great Content But Rough Around The Edges	The author demonstrates great expertise in Domino System Administration.  In addition to advising which choices to make when Domino provides options, he noted many discrepancies between Lotus documentation and the feature set  and functionality of R5 as delivered.  The book is based upon Domino 5.0  and Kirkland advises when Lotus has promised to resolve specific problems  in future releases.  He offers a few work arounds and notes when we just  have to wait for an update.<br />Rob Kirkland admits that he struggled with  meeting deadlines to finish this book and he brought in several of his  friends to write 7 of the 20 chapters in the book.  Perhaps being late  explains why this book has so many problems with formatting, punctuation,  missing words, words that don't fit the context, and mislabeled concepts.  I would estimate there are over 300 of these incidents in the book.  Most  of them are minor but occasionally I found a situation like this, two  different features are explained and they are both labeled with the same  name.  As the reader, you must decide from your understanding which one is  which.  This material is not meant as an introduction for beginners but I  found these glitches challenging at times and imagine it could throw even  experienced Notes Administrators.<br />The writing was clear enough but the  organization of the book was such that you frequently had to leave your  understanding of a concept open for quite a long time until an explanation  was completed in a later chapter.  For example, partitioning a server is  discussed early but only at the end is the concept explained.  Many times  early chapters referred to later chapters for a fuller discussion of  features.  By the time you get to the end the material is covered pretty  well but it is clear to me this book needed another draft.  The book is a  great candidate for a second edition.  Not only could the organization of  the material be revisited, the wording and formatting problems could be  fixed and the issues resolved by Lotus in the latest updates to R5 could be  covered.<br />I look forward to consulting this book again and again in the  field.  Despite the problems it is full of wise advice and it is clear that  Kirkland understands production environments.  One of my favorite aspects  of the book is the step by step method of being walked through setting up a  new server or adding a new server or deleting a server.  The impact of  making various changes in terms of performance, reliability, and  availability is consistently discussed.  I thought the coverage of mail  services and routing was particularly strong and the coverage of web server  features somewhat weak.ems could be  fixed and the issues resolved by Lotus in the latest updates to R5 could be  covered.<br />I look forward to consulting this book again and again in the  field.  Despite the problems it is full of wise advice and it is clear that  Kirkland understands production environments.  One of my favorite aspects  of the book is the step by step method of being walked through setting up a  new server or adding a new server or deleting a server.  The impact of  making various changes in terms of performance, reliability, and  availability is consistently discussed.  I thought the coverage of mail  services and routing was particularly strong and the coverage of web server  features somewhat weak.	2000-07-05
US	53064759	R3Q38HI0JS1J1M	0672314177	857768683	Sams Teach Yourself Lotus Notes 5 in 24 Hours (Sams Teach Yourself...in 24 Hours)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A Superb Introduction to Using the Notes Client	All technical books should be this clearly written.  I really liked the fast paced and yet thorough approach the authors achieved by going through the various aspects of using Lotus Notes R5 in 24 chapters.  Everything an  end user needs to know is in this book.<br />The authors advise in composing  an email to make your most important points first as readers may not read  to the end of your document and they follow their advice in this book.  Most readers will get what they want from the first chapters while more  demanding users with more specialized needs will find more of what matters  to them as they continue reading.<br />There really is nothing here for a  Notes Administrator except to find that this is THE book to recommend to  end users to answer their questions effectively.  There is a wealth of  information here on using short cuts and formatting documents to produce  more appealing presentations.  And the authors also do a great job of  suggesting ways to improve collaboration and workflow in a team  environment.<br />The information on subscriptions was too brief and I think  it would have been helpful to warn users that sometimes you just need to  shut down Notes and restart it to get some things to work properly.<br />If  you need to be more efficient in your communication and documentation in a  Notes environment, this book will help.	2000-06-15
US	53064759	RCU8Z7H64X7GQ	1572318058	363398324	Microsoft(r) Windows(r) 2000 Server Resource Kit (It-Resource Kit)	Books	4	19	19	N	Y	TCP/IP Core Networking Guide Is Pretty Good	This volume provides a very clear review of TCP/IP.  Basic concepts are covered in separate chapters from Windows 2000 distinctives.  This organization makes the book an excellent learning tool.  Students can work  through the basic chapters while more experienced readers might go straight  to the Windows 2000 features.<br />One of the features that appears throughout  the SRK is flowcharts.  This can be a helpful method for visualizing the  step by step activities of establishing connections, resolving names, etc.  This approach is applied in this volume particularly to troubleshooting.  I  liked having a flowchart and a list of steps to clarify the points  covered.<br />Microsoft is emphasizing the use of network analysis through the  use of Network Monitor in the SRK.  Capture files are frequently included  to illustrate TCP/IP functions.<br />A number of new tools for testing and  verifying TCP/IP on a Windows 2000 network are covered in the book.  The  coverage is a little light weight and it is common to be referred to Server  Help for more information.  It appears to be necessary to review Server  Help, the SRK Companion CD, as well as the SRK itself to fully review some  tools and features.  This sounds worse than it really is however.<br />A  chapter is devoted to IPSec.  On the one hand an attempt is made to review  the material from a basic level to begin educating the industry on an  important security option.  The chapter also tries to cover the means of  making IPSec functional on a network.  I wanted more.<br />I was also  disappointed with the chapter on Quality of Service.  There was too much  repetition and important issues were not addressed clearly enough.  For  instance, not all QOS features can overlap on machines.  It was not clear  what features can be run together and which must be installed on separate  machines to function appropriately.<br />The last chapter in the volume was on  SNMP.  It was basic and clearly written.<br />Nine Appendixes were included  covering everything from the OSI Model to LMHOSTS files.  It is a shame  this volume will not be more accessible to students as it is really an  excellent treatment of TCP/IP.xes were included  covering everything from the OSI Model to LMHOSTS files.  It is a shame  this volume will not be more accessible to students as it is really an  excellent treatment of TCP/IP.	2000-06-01
US	53064759	R1SM6R03GOC3R2	0201634481	43581849	Interconnections: Bridges, Routers, Switches, and Internetworking Protocols (2nd Edition)	Books	5	53	56	N	N	Foundational Reading!	There are moments when this book reads like a detective story with drama, plot, and humor but even when Radia Perlman is simply working through the details of internetworking protocols the writing is clear and crisp.  The chapters are well organized and diagrams are used very effectively to make  even dense concepts accessible.<br />What I liked best about  Interconnections was being consistently able to understand what the author  was saying.  While an electrical engineer might get a little more out of  her discussions than I did I never felt locked out because my undergraduate  education was in the liberal arts.<br />The material she presents is not  always easy.  In fact, Radia notes, \\"Anyone who isn't confused about when  routers become EGP neighbors and what the rules are for configuring routers  to initiate being EGP neighbors does not understand EGP\\" (p. 428).  And yet  the reader who is willing to concentrate and follow her lead can understand  everything covered.<br />Even though this is a marvelously written book it  is not for everyone.  I would hesitate to recommend it to a network  technician wanting to understand networks more fully.  While I think every  computer science student should spend two semesters working through these  18 chapters, memorizing the Glossary, and discussing the suggested homework  problems the book is overkill for the ordinary MCSE candidate wanting to  master Networking Essentials for a Microsoft certification exam.  Interconnections is foundational reading for those who would design  protocols or vendor equipment designed to interoperate with protocols but  it is a bit much for someone who just wants to know which port to plug the  cable into.<br />While Interconnections is not for everyone, I think it is  essential reading for anyone who makes purchase decisions in an enterprise  network.  Without a firm understanding of bridges, routers, switches, and  internetworking protocols they become far too vulnerable to sales  techniques.  And Interconnections is an essential reference for the Network  Analyst.  Radia notes that in the first edition of her book she assumed  people would read the RFCs to get details that she omitted but they didn't.  As someone who has spent some time trying to digest RFCs I am grateful  that she bulked up the Second Edition with what she thought people needed  to know.  I can figure out what she writes but frequently feel I have  wasted the effort when trying to get what I need out of the RFCs.  Interconnections is a convenient one stop resource for researching packet  headers and the various control messages that analyzer software may capture  while sniffing a network to identify problems.<br />Interconnections, Second  Edition is 150 pages larger than the First Edition published in 1992.  Radia has reorganized, rewrote, added examples, included new protocols and  more fully documented details to make it a better reference book.  The  Glossary was expanded from 4 pages to 10 but that was not enough.  Radia  does a good job of defining terms in the body of the book the first time  they are used but not again in later chapters.  When they are not in the  Glossary it leaves the reader having to page around looking for the first  definition.  And the Index shrank from 15 pages to 5 between the First and  Second Editions and thus became less useful for finding obscure terms.<br />Radia Perlman proposes that, \\"Before we design a solution, it's often  useful to define the problem to be solved\\" (p. 505).  To explain a protocol  in the book she typically presents a list of problems and then walks  through adding features to an algorithm to solve one or more of them.  She  discusses how adding one feature may create new problems.  It is  fascinating to do this exercise in relationship to real world protocols  that are used everyday and to realize that some problems could be relieved  if standards bodies could more readily agree.  And that brings up one of  the most enjoyable aspects of Interconnections, Radia sharing anecdotes and  criticisms from years of participating on the Internet Engineering Task  Force.<br />One take home message for me from reading Interconnections is that  it is always best to keep it simple.  Added complexity rarely pays off in  anything but trouble.  Radia opined, \\"I think people should be grateful if  their packets get there at all\\" (p.202) rather than jumping through a lot  of hoops to insure optimal routing.  This is a good message for those who  build internetworking protocols as well as those who just plug cables into  ports.of  the most enjoyable aspects of Interconnections, Radia sharing anecdotes and  criticisms from years of participating on the Internet Engineering Task  Force.<br />One take home message for me from reading Interconnections is that  it is always best to keep it simple.  Added complexity rarely pays off in  anything but trouble.  Radia opined, \\"I think people should be grateful if  their packets get there at all\\" (p.202) rather than jumping through a lot  of hoops to insure optimal routing.  This is a good message for those who  build internetworking protocols as well as those who just plug cables into  ports.	2000-04-30
US	53064759	R3OZOLUJQNNN0V	1572318058	363398324	Microsoft(r) Windows(r) 2000 Server Resource Kit (It-Resource Kit)	Books	3	19	19	N	Y	Distributed Systems Guide is Four Books in One	Microsoft was saving us money on this volume.  If the Active Directory section had been released alone it would have been a 600 page book.  But no, Distributed Security was included with about 300 pages and Enterprise Technologies with about 200 pages, and finally Desktop Configuration  Management with about 200 pages.  I have a permanent crease in my belly  from lying in bed with this book weighing me down.  Are all these topics  related? Yes.  Did I find myself paging into other sections of the book to  make sense out of something that I read in another section? No.  <br />There  is a significant amount of repetition within sections and only a little  between sections as new concepts are introduced that depend upon others  already explained but I never found myself tempted to go look at an Active  Directory concept again while I was reading about the Distributed File  System, for instance.  I do not understand how keeping these sections in  one book enhanced value.  It was hard to carry around too.<br />The Active  Directory book earned 2 stars with me.  The explanations were cloudy but  the detail was good.  It was in reading this section that I realized  Microsoft was thinking of third party developers when they wrote the Server  Resource Kit (SRK).  While many references were made to the Software  Developers Kit (SDK) in the SRK an attempt was made to lay out the ground  work for understanding what it would take to customize tools to work with  Active Directory.  Much of this material was irrelevant to a network  engineer who has to work with what is available without having the option  or budget for customization but it seemed to me that Microsoft was showing  helpfulness to third parties with this publication.<br />Distributed Security  was written in a fairly accessible manner.  Since the technologies covered  in this section are new to many organizations I wondered if a special  effort was made here to start from the ground up without expecting too much  from the reader.  I found it refreshing to get this package laid out  neatly.  This section earned 4 stars with me.  The explanations were good  but I thought the details on managing a security infrastructure were a  little lean.<br />Enterprise Technologies made up the smallest section of the  book and earned a 3 star rating with me.  The explanations of Distributed  File System, File Replication Service, and Network Load Balancing were okay  but not great.  The chapter on interpreting the Cluster Log was pretty  obscure but I guess you have to be into your own cluster log before this  material can get exciting.<br />Desktop Configuration Management was the last  section and earned 3 stars.  I happened to work through some CD based  training on Preinstalling and Deploying Windows 2000 Professional while I  was reading this section and that gave me a comparison with what is  possible.  The CD based training earned 5 stars with me.  I learned more  with it in about 25 pages than here in 200.  Of course the CD only hit the  high points while obscure details are reviewed here but it seemed to me  that if you removed the coverage of obscure details the SRK still would not  have been as clear in covering the technology.<br />I have to admit that in  the course of reading this volume I began to question my commitment to  reading the whole SRK.  These presentations do not measure up in clarity to  most other material I have encountered.  I will continue for several  reasons: 1) There is no more authoritative source of information.  2) The  reading is getting easier as I go.  Many concepts are related and now that  I am over 2500 pages in I can read for new details and confirmation of my  previously developed understandings.  3) I am stubborn.  <br />I am starting  the TCP/IP volume next.   Funny how 1000 page books are looking small now.   Check back in about 20 days and see what it was like.	2000-04-30
US	53064759	RFJAQMU6WRPVI	1572318058	363398324	Microsoft(r) Windows(r) 2000 Server Resource Kit (It-Resource Kit)	Books	3	49	50	N	Y	Deployment Planning Guide is OK	Windows 2000 is considerably more feature rich and complex than was NT and the Server Resource Kit reflects this in volume.  It was released the same week I took the MOC Accelerated Training for Windows 2000 and when my  Instructor made fun of the idea of buying such a large set of books I  calculated that I could read through the 7 volumes in 4 months if I read 50  pages daily.  After finishing the Deployment Planning Guide I'm about a  week ahead of schedule.  <br />The Deployment Planning Guide reflects  Microsoft's understanding that Windows 2000 must be implemented with  thorough planning to achieve the potential it has for supporting an  enterprise environment.  This volume is a Project Manager's dream.  Nearly  every planning base has been covered here from identifying the appropriate  composition of various teams to task sequencing to checklist templates.   The material is so well organized for guiding an implementation project  that I am surprised it was not released with a Microsoft Project file and  instructions to just add your own dates and stir.<br />The Deployment Planning  Guide provides a useful survey of many of the features of Windows 2000.   Even after a week of MOC training and reading through the two volumes  associated with that class I learned some new things from the Planning  Guide about how Win2K works.  For people who need to gain an understanding  of what the options are and how all the pieces fit together this is an  excellent read.<br />For the most part the Planning Guide is clearly and  accurately written.  A few times terms seemed to be misapplied and the  results were confusing.  Repetition became annoying as the reader was  referred to Server Help or the Unattend.doc on the installation CD for more  information too frequently.  Chapters 13 and 25 repeat the same material,  once to describe automating server installations and then again to describe  automating client installations.  These problems reflect an obvious effort  to makeeach section self contained but even so the volume is quite  readable as an overview of Windows 2000 networking.<br />Check back in about  30 days for my review of the 1500 page Distributed Systems Guide!	2000-03-13
US	53064759	R2I68YXN8Z3OS0	1572318260	744423153	Microsoft SQL Server 7.0 Database Implementation Training Kit	Books	3	31	32	N	Y	Adequate but not really enough to satisfy.	This was the first book I read in preparation for the Implementing a Database Design on Microsoft SQL Server 7.0 (Exam 70-029).   The first thing I noticed was that a good portion of what I had been tested on for  the System Administration for Microsoft SQL Server 7.0 (Exam 70-028) was  covered in this text.  It is clear that you really need to work through  both the Administration and Design books to be prepared for either of  Microsoft's SQL 7.0 Exams.<br />This book left me with questions.  For  example, I could not understand cursors after reading it through but when I  consulted Transact-SQL Programming by Kline, Gould, and Zanevsky and Inside  Microsoft SQL Server 7.0 by Soukup and Delaney I found the concept very  clear and understandable.  After reading through all of these I took the  Microsoft Official Curriculum course and the 700-page notebook that came  with that was my favorite study guide.  I was surprised that the MOC  material was the most complete even though the Self Study Kit overlaps with  a lot of the material covered.  I only saw one concept on my version of the  70-029 exam that was not covered in the course material but there were  probably 4 or 5 concepts that were not covered in the books I read.  Note:  None of this reading really prepares you for the rigors of the 70-029 exam.   This test really cries out for drilling on good prep software like  Transcender so that you can spot the easier questions and answer them  quickly to save time for the more demanding questions that require  extensive analysis.  I spent 20 minutes diagramming the database described  in my first question so that I could make sense of what was being asked.   Many of the questions appear to require this kind of detailed analysis  unless you know to look for the flaws that invalidate all but one of the  answers.<br />The Design book may be overpriced in comparison to other books  but it does seem to be the lowest cost access to enough of the material you  need to comprehend the range of concepts tested in 70-029.  By  supplementing it with a lot of reading in Books On Line you might get  everything you need.  I don't regret paying $1500.00 for the MOC and  spending 5 days in class but I understand that not everyone can choose that  route.	2000-02-16
US	53064759	RSJWDC9Y93H4M	1572318260	744423153	Microsoft SQL Server 7.0 Database Implementation Training Kit	Books	3	17	20	N	Y	As good as you can get for an overview of SQL Server 7.0	This was the first book I read in preparation for the Implementing a Database Design on Microsoft SQL Server 7.0 (Exam 70-029).  The first thing I noticed was that a good portion of what I had been tested on for  the System Administration for Microsoft SQL Server 7.0 (Exam 70-028) was  covered in this text.  It is clear that you really need to work through  both the Administration and Design books to be prepared for either of  Microsoft's SQL 7.0 Exams.<br />This book left me with questions.  For  example, I could not understand cursors after reading it through but when I  consulted Transact-SQL Programming by Kline, Gould, and Zanevsky and Inside  Microsoft SQL Server 7.0 by Soukup and Delaney I found the concept very  clear and understandable.  After reading through all of these I took the  Microsoft Official Curriculum course and the 700-page notebook that came  with that was my favorite study guide.  I was surprised that the MOC  material was the most complete even though the Self Study Kit overlaps with  a lot of the material covered.  I only saw one concept on my version of the  70-029 exam that was not covered in the course material but there were  probably 4 or 5 concepts that were not covered in the books I read.  Note:  None of this reading really prepares you for the rigors of the 70-029 exam.  This test really cries out for drilling on good prep software like  Transcender so that you can spot the easier questions and answer them  quickly to save time for the more demanding questions that require  extensive analysis.  I spent 20 minutes diagramming the database described  in my first question so that I could make sense of what was being asked.  Many of the questions appear to require this kind of detailed analysis  unless you know to look for the flaws that invalidate all but one of the  answers.<br />The Design book may be overpriced in comparison to other books  but it does seem to be the lowest cost access to enough of the material you  need to comprehend the range of concepts tested in 70-029.  By  supplementing it with a lot of reading in Books On Line you might get  everything you need.  I don't regret paying $1500.00 for the MOC and  spending 5 days in class but I understand that not everyone can choose that  route.rehend the range of concepts tested in 70-029.  By  supplementing it with a lot of reading in Books On Line you might get  everything you need.  I don't regret paying $1500.00 for the MOC and  spending 5 days in class but I understand that not everyone can choose that  route.	2000-02-09
US	53064759	R8FFZP00ZM21Q	1572318279	744423153	Microsoft SQL Server 7.0 System Administration Training Kit	Books	4	21	21	N	Y	Better for test prep than for routine DBA tasks.	This is a pretty good test preparation book.  It is the only volume I read cover to cover to prepare for the System Administration for Microsoft SQL Server 7.0 exam (70-028). I had spot read several other volumes to prepare  a maintenance guide for SQL Server 7.0 installations so had become familiar  with admin topics on the job.  I did find after passing the Admin test that  my margin of safety would have been greater if I had read the companion  volume on Implementing a Database Design on Microsoft SQL Server 7.0 (Exam  70-029) before I tested.  It is clear that you really need to work through  both the Administration and Design books to be prepared for either of  Microsoft's SQL 7.0 Exams.	2000-02-09
US	53064759	RHT3C5VYMCU0C	1565924010	518640782	Transact-SQL Programming: Covers Microsoft SQL Server 6.5 /7.0 and Sybase Adaptive Server 11.5	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Great Training on Transact-SQL Programming	Kline, Gould, and Zanevsky do a great job of teaching programming with the Transact-SQL language.  They review best practices and present techniques in a  practical manner that enhances the learning process.  This is the  most satisfying book I have read in the SQL world.<br />This is a book about  programming and does not touch upon server management.  It is largely a  Microsoft SQL Server book and while it does cover Sybase Adaptive Server it  organizes the information in such a way that if you are interested in just  one version you can easily stick with that.<br />There were a number of typos  that were disconcerting at times and sometimes you had to really work with  material to actually get it to work and I suspect that was about editing  problems.  The book is based upon the 6.5 version of Microsoft SQL Server  and the 7.0 material is only treated in an appendix.  This was  disappointing as it forces the reader to do more work than would otherwise  be necessary to put all the programming concepts together.<br />I look forward  to a revised edition of this book that is based upon SQL 7.0 but I would  advise anyone who is ready to improve his or her programming skills not to  wait.  This volume is easily the best value I have seen in technical books.	2000-01-31
US	53064759	R28MYUD9WC7JA7	0123264251	987929983	Relational Database Design Clearly Explained	Books	4	25	26	N	Y	A great introduction to database design!	Jan Harrington accomplishes her task neatly, to clearly explain relational database design. I was very pleased with how quickly I was able to grasp fundamental concepts and I would recommend this book to anyone getting  started with databases.  I had hoped that the book would be perfect and  would clearly explain every relevant concept but that was not the case.  When it came to the three interesting case studies that concluded the book,  the author used concepts that were never explained - control-break layout,  parent entities, ISAM file organization, repeating groups, reblocking  files.  While not understanding these concepts did not stop me from  grasping the fundamentals of database design it was frustrating and made  clear that this is an introductory text and not the last book to read on  the subject.  There were also about a dozen typos but these were  disconcerting rather than misleading.	1999-07-08
US	53064759	R3GGS9M7YT8VE	0201563320	389025543	Interconnections: Bridges and Routers (Addison-Wesley Professional Computing Series)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	When you really need to understand how traffic is moved!	This book is clearly written and well illustrated.  It is an essential building block for achieving the kind of understanding of network infrastructure that is necessary to architect and troubleshoot well.	1999-06-01
US	53064759	RU5DDIDJZM4R9	0072118911	672164651	SQL Server 7: A Beginner's Guide	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A beginners guide with substance and value!	Since I had no background with SQL Server I carefully chose a beginners guide and am very pleased with this one.  I was able to understand all but 2 or 3 short segments of the material and I anticipate using this book as a  syntax reference later on.  The author's background with databases was  evident without being overwhelming.  There were at least a dozen mislabeled  figures or tables that could be misleading and the first two thirds of the  book are heavy going as Transact-SQL is covered but I found the writing  consistently accessible.  The chapters on Data Warehouses and Data Marts  were too sketchy to be of much value but the main point of the book was  handily accomplished - the basics of building and managing SQL Server 7  databases.  I am reading the MS Press self study guides currently and am  glad I started where I did.	1999-06-01
US	53064759	R1QLA2CFG6J2J8	0070633991	47598119	McGraw-Hill Internetworking Handbook (Taylor Networking Series)	Books	1	0	0	N	Y	Except for the factual errors this is a read for freshman!	Ed Taylor says this book is for network architects, systems engineers, consultants and such.  Rather it might make a good introductory text for college students thinking about computer science for a field of study  except that the explanations are too often inadequate and sometimes flat  wrong!  He literally says in one short paragraph that a transparent bridge  is sometimes called a spanning tree bridge and that a spanning tree bridge  is essentially a learning bridge.  Explaining the concept of a spanning  tree bridge is difficult but I suspect Ed Taylor doesn't understand them  and worse doesn't know he doesn't know.  I wish a good education in  networking could be packed into one volume but it didn't happen here.  The  hype far exceeds the content.  Do yourself a favor and buy a half a dozen  good books instead of wasting your time and money on this empty promise.	1999-05-21
US	53064759	R1I67939RZOGM3	0134516591	603884469	The Simple Book: An Introduction to Networking Management (Prentice Hall Series in Innovative Technology)	Books	1	4	6	N	Y	Reading an RFC is more fun and more informative too!	The editor and publisher of this book should be ashamed.  It is an extended rant by the author that has no business being bound in hard cover.  The Pine Mountain Group recommends excerps from this book to get up to  speed with SNMP.  I wonder who at PMG is friends with the author.  This  book will teach only members of the &quot;network management  community&quot; anything.  Anyone seeking entry into the network management  community will need to find another door.  By reading no more than 20 to 40  pages a day I managed to go through the entire book but I am afraid that I  did not add anything to my understanding of SNMP that was not already there  from studying for my MCSE.  This book was a profound disappointment.  It is  at once dense, superficial, earnest, and sarcastic.  The shame of it is  that this author could educate profoundly if a good editor enforced some  discipline or a co-author came in to help with communicating with those who  are not the author's peers.	1999-05-18
US	53064759	R2GZ9QWLKSFHDT	0132169878	908811282	Internetworking with TCP/IP Vol. I: Principles, Protocols, and Architecture	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	You will understand TCP/IP from reading this book!	I am grateful for this book.  I like to really understand things and this book makes understanding a reality.  It is an exemplary model of technical writing.  This is the fourth book I have read on TCP/IP and it should have  been the first.  Since I am a network engineer with no background in  programming some of the illustrations from BSD Unix sailed over my head but  there was not enough of this to make me feel that any of my time was  wasted.  In fact, now I want to get a solid introduction to programming so  that I can follow along with the rest of the series this book begins.	1999-05-18
US	53064759	RM0O3O5HNYA3J	0471178055	30469821	Microsoft? Internet Information Server 4.0 Sourcebook (Sourcebooks)	Books	1	0	0	N	N	This book is real bad!	I am embarrassed that I did not look at this book long enough to recognize that the author knew nothing about NT and IIS before she started writing and almost nothing after she was finished.  The publisher should be ashamed  of releasing this book to the public.  It is an example of greed.  It was  available to hit the shelves before nearly anything else on IIS 4.0 so  those of us who needed to master the newest version of Information Server  had little else to choose from when I bought it in April, 1998.  Now I  would say that absolutely every other book available is a better choice.  I  wonder what it feels like to offer something this bad to the public.  I  hope I never find out.	1999-01-21
US	53064759	RG9H6NLLBOPGR	0764545019	207832550	Novell's Cne Study Guide for Core Technologies (Novell Press)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	This is the book to understand networking fundamentals!	As an MCSE who has been teaching Networking Essentials to systems engineering students I figured that I would breeze through the Novell Networking Technologies course.  Whoa! The Novell course goes into  substantially more detail than the Microsoft course.  I found Clarke's book  to be an excellent guide through the maze of material that Novell requires  familiarity with.  And it was a pleasure to notice that this book seems to  be the foundation of many other guides and lectures that I have been  exposed to both in Novell and Microsoft curriculums.  The author does go  overboard on Zen commercials, puzzles, brain teasers, and the like but it  is easy to skip over these parts when you have time only to study material  you will need for an exam (or in my case, for my next lecture).	1999-01-20
US	53064759	R3KBBIPZPLA95I	1576102378	223858551	MCSE Networking Essentials Exam Prep (Exam: 70-058)	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	This is the best book for MCSE test preparation.	I have read three books for Networking Essentials from cover to cover and  paged though several others.  This is my favorite.  It covers the material  you need to know, it does it clearly without wasting too many words, and it  is at a good price.  I teach Networking Essentials at the Lanop CNE &amp;  MCSE Test Preparation Center in Atlanta and I recommend this book to my  students for supplementation.  The Microsoft Press book is good but too  wordy and twice as expensive.  Nearly every MCSE book I have looked at has  errors and this one is no exception.  That's why you either need a good  teacher or you need to read 2 or 3 books on each subject and reconcile the  differences yourself.	1998-10-08
