US	53063647	R39HUSLS0RYRW2	185306601X	355995125	A Dictionary of Old Trades, Titles and Occupations	Books	5	3	3	N	N	From Abbess to Zoographer	These alphabetically arranged definitions of historical and unusual job titles focus on those from the United Kingdom.  As many of these historic terms crossed the Atlantic with the English language, this book will also be of use to anyone with North American ancestors. <br /> <br />The professions of our ancestors were as colorfully named as they were remarkably diverse.  For example: <br /> <br />What did a cow leech do? <br /> <br />Where were a moss reeve's duties performed? <br /> <br />What part of your body did a powler attend to? <br /> <br />What did a grunter man keep? <br /> <br />Facing a genealogical record which lists an unfamiliar occupation performed by an ancestor, this reference work is essential in understanding the lives of our forbearers. <br />	2005-05-22
US	53063647	R3LUOHIZLE0NF7	1853068233	663369947	Tracing Your Family Tree: The Comprehensive Guide to Discovering Your Family History (Genealogy)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The best beginner's guide for genealogy in the UK	This book is hands down the best beginner's guide to genealogical research if you have ancestors from the United Kingdom.    The writing is clear and concise and the examples given are crystal clear representations of the topic under discussion.  The illustrations are purposeful and not simply gratuitous eye-candy.    The organization of the book is superb.  It begins with the most basic and general record types a new researcher would need to access such as information from home and relative sources, civil registration, national censuses & parish registers.  Each subsequent chapter introduces more complex and specialized record types in descending order of overall importance to the average researcher.    It is as if Jean Cole and John Titford, two giants in U.K. genealogy world, are right with you holding your hand each step along your research path.    This is not a detailed reference work such as Mark Herber's \\"Ancestral Trails\\".  But if you could purchase only a single beginner's guide to genealogical research in the United Kingdom, Tracing Your Family Tree is the one to get.	2005-05-22
US	53063647	R170YRRV6CGEGD	0965676102	867476089	The German Research Companion	Books	4	21	21	N	N	A great reference for German genealogical research.	This book is a great resource about German genealogy for American descendants.  It's 600+ pages begin with information to understand German history, the immigrant experience and the records of genealogical importance that were generated as a result.  The next set of chapters give an overview on church & civil records and the repositories which hold them in Germany.  The advice given on the best way to approach these repositories is invaluable.  German references and finding aids are reviewed and then American record types are described with an emphasis on researching Germans in the United States.  The German educational system, language, fraternal organizations, customs, naming practices, military resources and religions are dealt with in detailed chapters.  The diverse geographic areas of interest beyond Germany itself are covered as well such as the origins of the Germans from Russia, German settlement of Pennsylvania and the former areas of Germany in the east.  This is a great reference for Americans seeking their German ancestors.	2005-05-22
US	53063647	R11GZEX7MU9EHU	1550025074	719200619	Christian Names in Local and Family History	Books	4	5	5	N	N	English first name patterns through time.	First names have both history and context and George Redmonds has produced a much needed new study of them.  This is NOT a \\"what does my first name mean\\" type of book.  Redmonds has produced a social history of first names in England that has solid statistical backing.  His major new contribution is his use of the poll tax returns of 1300s to establish a statistical base from which to compare changes in name popularity and patterns over time.  He compares his data to that of other researchers to investigate the common questions about first name patterns.  Did saints' names loose their popularity as a result of the Reformation?  Redmonds has an interesting answer you might not expect.  What role did the godparents play in the naming of children?  What naming fads swept England and what were their sources?  This book puts holes in many previous works on name popularity that previously relied on their authors' perceptions without statistical support.  One of the best things about this book is that the author actually defines exactly what he means when describing a name as \\"popular\\" or \\"common\\".  The book's particular strength is in the north of England - the author's home turf.  The book is replete with copious examples in support of the author's conclusions.<br />The chapters include:<br />o A Transitional Period<BR>o Tom, Dick and Harry<BR>o The Popularity of Christian Names<BR>o Parents and Godparents<BR>o Names from the Twelfth Century<BR>o Names from Abroad<BR>o Names of the Saints<BR>o Names from Legend and Literature<BR>o Names from Surnames<BR>o After the Reformation<BR>o Changing Customs<br />An excellent addition to the genealogist's or social historian's tool kit, this book promotes the understanding of first naming patterns which continue to evolve to this day.	2004-05-21
US	53063647	R1MR7ZKVUJ5F5	052130153X	489305913	Migration in a Mature Economy: Emigration and Internal Migration in England and Wales 1861-1900 (Cambridge Studies in Population, Economy and Society in Past Time)	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Were they pushed or did they jump?	Using an technique to estimate births and out migration for each English &amp; Welsh county, the author tests various generally accepted &quot;truths&quot; about the migration from England &amp; Wales of some 10 million people between 1861 and 1900.  <br />Did most emigrants come from rural areas which were left behind during the rapid industrialization of the period?<br />Did the varying cycles of economic growth on either side of the &quot;Atlantic economy&quot; clearly influence emigration in the directions expected?<br />Did the Welsh have a distinct emigration pattern which differed from English emigrants?<br />Was the composition of the emigrants primarily young unmarrieds or families emigrating together?<br />Did the emigrants leave England and Wales for good or was there significant return migration?<br />The author's conclusions are significant in changing our understanding of this large migration of people.  His conclusions on return migration, rural/urban origins of emigrants, information flows about conditions in the destination countries, and Welsh and West Country emigration patterns are extremely interesting.<br />This is an academic population study and reading it can be a heavy slog at times.  For those not inclined to wade through mathematical models of population and emigration, the author has provided convenient summaries for each chapter and an very useful concluding chapter.<br />A great way to better understand why our English and Welsh ancestors &quot;jumped the puddle&quot; and went overseas between 1861 and 1900.	2004-04-04
US	53063647	RFFPKIP6YI3HF	0752425242	799651872	The British Settlement of Brittany: The First Bretons in Armorica	Books	2	3	3	N	Y	A tough read	Translated from the French of the authors, this book suffers from the unsuccessful results.  The translation is choppy and the text subsequently hard to follow.  Several of the authors have backgrounds in geology so the rocks of Britanny figure prominently in a book you would expect to be about ancient sources and archaeology in the ground, not the ground itself.<br />The subject matter is very interesting regarding the Dark Age migrations of the British to Britanny.  The major written sources, their limitations and silent periods are discussed in detail.<br />The authors assume the reader has a working familiarity with Britanny's geography and its post-Dark Age past.  I could only give the book two stars due to its various difficulties.	2003-10-03
US	53063647	R21Q4QE589WSAI	0851156622	390117293	The Lords of Battle: Image and Reality of the Comitatus in Dark-Age Britain	Books	4	2	4	N	Y	&quot;Three hundred gold-torqued warriors attacked...&quot;	The most insightful thing about this volume is the author's comparison of both the Anglo-Saxon and their British opponents' views on the comitatus - the war band of heroic Dark Age Britain.  Usually, authors prefer to focus on the differences between these two ethnic groups rather than their similarities.  Most of the evidence in the book comes from the heroic poetry from Beowulf for the Anglo-Saxons and the Godiddin for the British.  Individual chapters focus on social structure, military organization, poets, the hall, and more.  A good little book and a quick read.	2003-09-23
US	53063647	R20N0EHPZMQ9Q7	0385493886	677332537	In Praise of Nepotism: A Natural History	Books	4	12	15	N	Y	America's love/hate relationship with nepotism	The historical sections which make up the bulk of the book are very good.  The author does a fine job of describing the biological imperatives of nepotism, classical nepotism, colonial nepotism, etc.  Those chapters detailing the successes and failures of different practitioners of nepotism through the ages are fascinating to read.<br />The specifically American version of modern nepotism is described by Bellow as being forgiving toward nepotism for providing entrée into social, employment and power positions so long as the beneficiary subsequently proves themselves by merit.  Family fumblers are appropriately punished in the author's view and family dynasties which fail the individual/generational meritocracy test do indeed go \\"from shirtsleeves to shirtsleeves in three generations\\".<br />The conclusion seemed like a cheap eraser jammed onto the end of an expensive mechanical pencil.  It appears to have been cobbled together in a hurry and does not read like carefully reasoned inferences drawn from the historical sections of the book.  The conclusion provides prescriptive attitudes regarding nepotism in modern society and this is by far the weakest part of the book.<br />The irony of writing about nepotism as the son of a famous author is not lost on Bellow.  This book will be a boon to nephew-hiring dynasts everywhere.	2003-08-23
US	53063647	R1D09T946KMDSJ	0752423487	971601027	The Battle of Dunnichen 685	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Brief review of Ecgfrith's Battle	Better know as the Battle of Nechtanesmere, this engagement fought in northeastern Scotland on Saturday, May 20, 685 has been heralded as a a turning point in Scottish history.  The battle is perhaps the most well documented event in Pictish history because of the stunning defeat they inflicted on the Northumbrian Angles.<br />This short book reviews the circumstances of the events leading to the battle, considers various theories on the location of the battle, and the impact of the Pictish victory and Northumbrian defeat.  It considers the question of the criticality of the battle in ending Anglo-Saxon hegemony over the Picts and its effect on subsequent events in the North.  Did King Ecgfrith's defeat and death at the hands of the Bridei, Pictish king of Fortriu, mark the end of the golden age of Northumbria?  Did the Picts' victory set the foundations for the what would become the medieval kingdom of Scotland?<br />A quick and interesting read about the battle and its consequences	2003-07-11
US	53063647	R1N3CL3MTMH1WN	0415214971	42730566	Edward the Elder: 899-924	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	Sandwiched between Alfred the Great and Æthelstan	Edward the Elder is perhaps the most neglected of the Anglo-Saxon kings. Overshadowed by both his father Alfred and his successor Æthelstan, he did much on his own to expand the domination of Wessex across all of England.<br />This book is a series of papers presented in 1999 at a conference on Edward the Elder held at the Manchester Centre for Anglo-Saxon Studies. Twenty-two papers by some of the most noted experts in their fields explore the archaeology, charter evidence, textiles, dynastic marriages, coinage, foreign relations, scriptorium production, and more of Edward the Elder's reign.<br />Of particular interest is the consideration of Edward's activities as king. Was he merely continuing his father Alfred the Great's program of recovering the Danelaw, fortifying the burhs, and incorporating Mercia into a comprehensive \\"Kingdom of the English\\"? Or did Edward follow his own policies in light of the opportunities he faced?<br />An outstanding multi-disciplinary insight into this much overlooked Anglo-Saxon king's rule.	2003-05-18
US	53063647	RE7J6KJE9TSIV	0750921315	958842880	Mercia and the Making of England	Books	5	23	24	N	Y	Wessex did not stand alone!	The history of Anglo-Saxon England is perforce centered on the kingdom of the West Saxons.  With the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle's focus on Alfred and the eventual establishment of his dynasty as kings of a unified England, Wessex has taken the spotlight in our understanding of this period of history.  However, Wessex did not stand alone against the Danes.<br />The central English kingdom of Mercia was a major source of support in the effort to re-conquer lands lost to the Danes.  While dynastic accidents prevented Mercian royalty from competing for the crown of all England, Mercia was vital to the unification process.  The history of this kingdom is represented by a much more limited set of surviving sources when compared to Wessex.<br />Ian Walker attempts to redress this imbalance by providing a history of the Mercian kingdom.  Most of the book focuses on the struggles with the Danes and the emergence of a unified England.  Without the co-operation and consent of Mercia, England would not have been formed under the Wessex kings.  Of particular interest are the sections on Lord Æthelred of Mercia and his wife Æthelflæd, Lady of the Mercians.  The daughter of Alfred the Great, Æthelflæd's marriage to the ruler of Mercia helped ensure the critical co-operation between the two kingdoms in the darkest days of the Danes' hegemony.  Æthelflæd ruled Mercia in her own right for several years after the death of her father and husband - the only instance of a female to have done so in Anglo-Saxon times.<br />After reviewing the history of kingdom from King Offa of Mercia to King Edgar of England, the book provides two chapters on the composition of Mercian society and the Mercian Church.  Mercians in positions of power under Wessex and later English kings are given biographical treatment.  A highlight of the book is its consideration of Mercian art in building, sculpture & literature.  This is an excellent read and a much needed redress of the paucity of popular works on Anglo-Saxon kingdoms other than Wessex.	2002-10-19
US	53063647	R1I0JFNJMNDLFA	0313323445	458836680	Vandals in the Stacks?: A Response to Nicholson Baker's Assault on Libraries (Contributions in Librarianship and Information Science)	Books	5	20	24	N	Y	A necessary reply to Nicholson Baker's "Double Fold"	This book provides a reasoned and erudite response from the professional librarian and archivist community to Nicholson Baker's \\"Double Fold\\".  Think that Baker over-made his case against the CIA/library conspiracy to destroy our print heritage?  You're right - he did.  In the interests of writing a ripping good yarn, Baker played fast and loose with the facts.  Remember, he's a novelist, not an investigative reporter.<br />Richard Cox brings years of professional archival practice and scholarship to bear on the fallacies of \\"Double Fold\\".  Cox rationalizes the debate by asking profound questions about how society should decide what it preserves among competing wants with limited resources, the best methods for preservation, and what the implications for Baker's solution of \\"saving everything\\" will be in our electronic age.<br />Most interesting perhaps is Cox's review of Nicholson Baker's public statements on the TV and lecture circuit regarding his \\"Double Fold\\" crusade.  Obviously, consistency is not one of Baker's hobgoblins.  He seems to have made a career out of repeatedly contradicting what he wrote in \\"Double Fold\\".  Of extreme value in Cox's response is his focus on how Baker has brought the previously private library science debate on what materials to preserve and how into the public realm.  Although he disagrees with Baker's caricature of librarians, Cox argues that the public perceptions of librarianship and archival responsibilities should be of extreme concern to the profession.<br />Cox doesn't just do a hatchet job.  He uses \\"Double Fold\\" with all its warts as part of his graduate courses for archivists.  Cox believes that Baker has done the profession a favor by shaking it up a bit and bringing preservation issues into public debate.  The only criticism I have of the book is that its arguments are at time redundant.	2002-10-06
US	53063647	R2GNGBD3KZC6XE	0674007026	192321103	Migration and the Origins of the English Atlantic World (Harvard Historical Studies)	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	The making of the English Atlanic world	A scholarly investigation into the Atlantic voyages and destinations of those listed in the 1635 London Port Register.  The author follows their careers in the extant colonial and English records before and after their voyages.  Excellent insights into the English colonies in New England, Virginia, Bermuda, and Providence Island in the Caribbean.<br />Questions of why these travelers left, how they traveled, what they found when they arrived, how they prospered or failed, and those that returned to their homeland or traveled to other colonies are all dealt with.  Excellent sections on the age and sex compositions of the different destinations under study and the effects of this on their colonial development.<br />Lots of information on the flight of the puritans from Archbishop Laud and the different gathered church societies they established in the puritan colonies.  The continuous migration over the life cycle of these English travelers within England, to London, across the Atlantic and within and between colonies is the ongoing theme of the book.	2002-09-26
US	53063647	RYZQOOL9OW7QG	0807044113	787360809	Free for All: Defending Liberty in America Today	Books	4	12	12	N	Y	Equally critical of Left & Right opponents of civil liberty	Thank goodness for Wendy Kaminer.  A consistent thinker in the midst of our culture of conflict between fabricated absolutist alternatives.<br />This book is a collection of short essays on the state of American liberties which previously appeared in the \\"The American Prospect\\" over the past two years.  They have been updated with additional material to confront the issues in civil liberty which have appeared after 9/11.<br />Censorship, religious freedom, women's rights, and homeland security are just some of the topics covered in these bite-size essays.  The author's pen spares no sacred cows of either the Right or the Left.  The feminist movement's campaign against pornography is vilified with as much fervor as is the conservative effort to criminalize flag burning.  Both efforts are attempts at limiting unpopular speech.  Kaminer shows them both to be the silly shibboleths of sanctimonious speech suppressors.<br />I don't agree with the author's opinions on every issue covered in the book.  Her take on the criminal justice system, immigration, and social equality are a bit too left of center for my tastes.  However, I am proud of her right to her opinions and her courage to care about the rights of others with whom she disagrees.  If only we could all care with this much eloquence.	2002-09-17
US	53063647	R2I461T0W4KZO2	0567086828	639188782	Spes Scotorum, Hope of Scots: Saint Columba, Iona and Scotland	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Gentle Columba - 1400 years on	This book is a collection of articles by various authors from the print and seminar publications of the Scottish Catholic Historical Association to commemorate Columba's death in 597 AD.<br />While published by the SCHA, it is devoid of any pro-Catholic sentiments which usually surround the collective denominational \\"ownership\\" of local saints.<br />The work is divided into three sections:  historical analysis of Columba and Iona; the written world of Adomnán, Columba's biographer; and the modern world legacy of Columba including the archæology of Iona.<br />Perhaps the most interesting historical article is \\"The Scottish takeover of the Pictland and the relics of Columba\\" by John Bannerman which attempts to debunk the \\"union\\" myth between the Picts and the Dál Raita Scots. For understanding Adomnán the hagiographer, Jennifer O'Reilly's \\"The wisdom of the scribe and the fear of the Lord in the Life of Columba\\" is both insightful and accessible to the lay person.  The article which summarizes the archæological activity on Iona is disappointingly brief.  The final article by Donald E. Meek regarding 21st century interpretations of Columba is fun reading for its ridicule of the modern \\"Celtic Christianity\\" movement and the uses to which Columba's memory is now put.<br />A solid backgrounder on Columba.	2002-09-11
US	53063647	R14MQURTVYBR5E	0822324911	179188644	The Invention of Capitalism: Classical Political Economy and the Secret History of Primitive Accumulation	Books	2	29	56	N	Y	Disappointing	I came at this work with an open mind and an independent background in the history of economic thought.  I was severely disappointed.  Occasional inconsistencies of argument or a few personal correspondences noting the short comings of the markets do not turn the classical political economists into dyed-in-the-subsidized-wool interventionists.<br />Far from being a \\"secret history\\" of primitive accumulation, this book is a work of theory plain and simple.  I was really expecting more concrete evidence of the collusion of the classical political economists in the final phases of primitive accumulation in Great Britain, but this book does not present much compelling evidence to support its over-hyped premise.  Primitive accumulation was all over but the shouting in Great Britain by the time the philosophers turned their attention to matters economic.  The idea that intervention was required to move \\"self-provisioning farmers\\" (generously defined) into the factories as wage slaves is an appealing one.  But the book simply does not cite enough historical evidence to prove the point.<br />The author is half way through the book before he addresses Adam Smith's supposedly interventionist tendencies to promote the \\"early\\" capitalists.  Ricardo, Malthus, and Mill merit bare mentions.  I did give the book two stars for introducing the reader to some of the neglected political economists of the early period.  Overall, Marx receives the spotlight throughout the work.	2002-09-11
US	53063647	RWXBGUG0I04L1	0691029105	605690498	The Sovereign State and Its Competitors: An Analysis of Systems Change (Princeton Studies in International History and Politics)	Books	5	26	26	N	Y	Why the sovereign state won the evolutionary contest.	Why do we live in sovereign states now?  In the high Middle Ages, sovereign states were certainly not the only form of political organization in Western Europe.  Why did sovereign states first come to dominate Europe and then spread their model around the globe?<br />The author argues that there was nothing deterministic about the victory of the sovereign state.  It was not destined to be the most successful form of government and it had competitors.  The city leagues, particularly the Hansa, and the city-state, most notably in Italy, were all viable alternatives to the sovereign state up to the high Middle Ages.<br />By comparing the development of Capetian France, the Hanseatic League, and the Italian city-states, the author shows what political actors made which alliances with one another to the benefit or detriment of their particular political models.<br />A particularly fascinating book to understand how we got to the dominance of the sovereign state and excellent background for imagining a post-sovereign state world.	2002-09-03
US	53063647	RECPAKXR3Z7RO	0520074017	400506985	The Archaeology of the Roman Economy	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	Digging the Roman economy.	A useful popular overview of various aspects of Roman archology which helps elucidate their production and trade.  The book is divided into sections on transport, coinage, agriculture, regional surveys of settlement &amp; agriculture, and metal, stone and pottery.  The section on regional archological surveys is probably the most interesting facet of the book.  Bear in mind that this is a huge area of study and this book can only provide an overview.  I only gave it four stars because it is now a decade out of date and needs to be updated to include the latest finds and analysis.	2002-09-03
US	53063647	R3HXHJNDVL0ME0	0415213053	405228126	King Arthur - Myth Making and History	Books	5	24	25	N	Y	Much needed and extremely important.	If you're still seeking the Holy Grail of an &quot;historical Arthur&quot;, don't bother with this book.  You won't find any theories about a sub-Roman war band leader here.  This is a scholarly work about the Arthurian legend that does not seek to &quot;prove&quot; that Arthur, the man, actually existed.<br />This book is about whence came the IDEA of Arthur.  The author does review the extremely limited original sources which mention Arthur and then works to explain what the purpose was behind the idea of Arthur.  Who needed him as a symbol? How did they use Arthur for their own dynastic advancement?<br />The author focuses on the pre-Galfridian (pre-Geoffrey of Monmouth) Latin texts which mention Arthur. He provides historic contextual background to explain where these works were written, why they were written, and who their intended original audience was.<br />Once the original purpose for the idea of Arthur is established, the book then reviews the rise and fall and rise again of the Arthurian legend from the French troubadours to the Tudor kings on through the Victorians and up to the present day cults of Camelot.<br />An excellent and fast read for the general public about a scholarly topic that has been much neglected.	2002-09-03
US	53063647	R16662DNYGZRGD	0715629654	262739881	Towns and Trade in the Age of Charlemagne (Debates in Archaeology)	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	The rebirth of urbanism in Carolingian Europe	A short introduction to urban continuity/discontinuity between Classical Antiquity and the early Middle Ages.  A history of the debate from Pirenne and interpretations of the historical literature to the recent archaeology of the North Sea emporiums such as Dorestad, Hamwic, and Ribe.  A excellent and quick read on a subject that vexes historians and archaeologists alike.	2002-05-30
US	53063647	RT18UV6FNWXWF	9004057935	516815390	The De Excidio of Gildas: Its Authenticity and Date (Columbia Studies in the Classical Tradition)	Books	3	4	4	N	Y	Who wrote "De Excido" and when?	An excellent review of the historical problems surrounding the authorship and date of \\"De excidio et conquestu Britanniae\\" attributed to Gildas.  It uses the textual evidence to consider the nationality of Gildas, evidence for unity and authenticity of the text, and reviews the various arguments regarding the date of its writing.  Finally, the author provides textual evidence regarding his interpretation of the date \\"De Excidio\\" was written using the text's lack of comment on the Easter Question, the reigns of the five princes addressed in \\"De Excidio\\", and the date of the Siege of Mons Badonicus.	2002-05-30
US	53063647	R216QC2FWXDOEZ	0719048281	421868976	The Convert Kings: Power and Religious Affiliation in Early Anglo-Saxon England	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	The Politics of the English Conversion to Christianity	This book asks and attempts to answer why the previously pagan English kings found it politically expedient to convert to Christianity.  What did they gain?  What did they loose?  How did the political consideration of these dynasts differ from the ecclesiastically written histories in their reasoning for conversion?<br />The book is divided into four sections.  The first deals with the sociological and anthropological theories regarding conversion.  The second reviews Æthelbert of Kent's reaction to Augustine's mission to England.  The third section shows how Edwin of Deira used the new Christian cult.  Finally, the choice between competing cults (Roman Christian, Celtic Christian, and non-Christian paganism) and their use by the Bernician kings Oswald and Oswiu to further their dynasties' imperial ambitions is reviewed in detail.<br />The author is acutely aware of the ecclesiastical source material in which our understanding of this period of history is rooted.  He is honest enough to label his own theorizing as &quot;beyond proof&quot; based on the available sources.<br />This book is fascinating to read.  You will get a great deal more out of this political history if you read Henry Mayr-Harting's &quot;The Coming of Christianity to Anglo-Saxon England&quot; first.  Mayr-Harting's is the seminal work on the subject and will assist in your understanding of the traditional interpretation of the conversion period's history.  After reading Higham's &quot;Convert Kings&quot;, you will never look at the Synod of Whitby the same way again.	2002-05-10
US	53063647	R13AJ7IBXK3Y3B	0812235347	775255262	The Cistercian Evolution: The Invention of a Religious Order in Twelfth-Century Europe (The Middle Ages Series)	Books	4	13	13	N	Y	Rewriting the history of the Twelfth Century	The commonly held view of the creation of the Cistercian Order has several cherished elements:  a foundation date for the order in the early 1100s during the lifetime of Bernard of Clairvaux; the rapid spread of this novel form of monasticism based on 'apostolic gestation' (a mother abbey sends out an abbot and 6 or 12 monks to found a new abbey); the settlement of new abbeys in the waste and disused lands of Europe; strong central control by the General Chapter; and the almost complete lack of women's foundations in the early Cistercian Order.<br />This well written volume turns this potted history on its head.  The author re-examines the earliest foundation documents of the Order and individual monasteries in southern France to compose an entirely different history of the Order's early years.  The concept of the Order itself was not invented until after Bernard's death and the General Chapter did not exert control until the last third of the Twelfth Century.  In a far cry from the traditional history, the author finds evidence that the Order spread primarily by incorporating pre-existing foundations including many double houses as well as women's foundations.  The incorporation of pre-existing monastic communities certainly better explains the Cistercian's amazingly rapid spread and success.  Instead of colonizing the wastelands of Europe, the Order took over areas already under cultivation.<br />There are more surprises in this volume besides those mentioned above.  The concepts of equality and charity, exemption from tithes, and other cherished myths of the Order are scrutinized using primary documents.  The book focuses primarily on southern France, the cradle of the Cistercians, and deals extensively with women's monasteries and the Cistercian's foundation myth's silence about them.<br />An excellent read and an essential book for anyone interested in the history of the Twelfth Century or the Cistercians.	2002-04-28
US	53063647	R1Y42PFY87ACV2	0750926775	741123102	Alfred: Warrior King	Books	3	9	10	N	N	A review of Alfred's military defeats and victories.	This book gives a standard treatment of Alfred the Great's history and the unpleasantness visited upon England by the Danes.  It's focus is on the strategy and tactics employed by Alfred in his campaigns, his guerilla war directed from Athelney, organization of a navy, and fortification of the strategically sited burhs.<br />It's a fast read and written by a veteran of the Burma campaign in World War II so it is chock full of soldierly insights regarding logistics, terrain, and morale.  Although focused on Wessex, the Danes, Franks, Mercians, East Anglians, Northumbrians and the Welsh are not ignored as participants in the various Viking raids and eventual settlements occurring in Northwest Europe.  There is a great deal of emphasis on the routes by which various forces moved across England and the trackways, Roman roads, and waterways used are given detailed descriptions.<br />I enjoyed it as a sort of Pop military history of Alfred.	2002-04-20
US	53063647	RCWRQXVHCNP0L	0752414488	382558570	End of Antiquity	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	The transition from the Classical World to Medieval Europe.	Focusing on the economic and military problems facing Gaul in the third century, the author concludes that this time of troubles represented a &quot;mid-life crisis&quot; rather than a &quot;decline and fall&quot;.<br />Besides it's consideration of Gaul in this period, the author also touches on Britain and Iberia.  Themes include the transformation of cities, the role of clerics in civic government, the Christianization of the countryside, and the Atlantic interface of trade and travel.<br />An enjoyable read using evidence from both archæology and from the surviving written sources.	2002-04-20
US	53063647	RL0AMO6M9KZB5	071850206X	271764475	Civitas to Kingdom: British Political Continuity 300-800 (Studies in the Early History of Britain)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Excellent reading on &quot;sub-Roman&quot; Britain.	This is an overview of archological and textual record of Britain during this poorly understood period.  Its premise on the origins of the sub-Roman kingdoms of Britain is that prior to the official withdrawal of the Legions in 410, the primarily pagan secular elite of the British provinces were replaced by a Christian administration of low status origins.  After the failure of Constantine III to gain the purple, this administration adopted native British power structures based on kingship.  This theory can be used to successfully explain the decline of the villas, the rise of Christian ecclesiastics (based on Martinian militancy), and the introduction of pagan mercenaries who eventually created the Anglo-Saxon kingdoms in the East.  The work is notable for its careful inclusion of Britain in the context of the wider remnants of the Western Empire. Better attested events and evidence from Gaul, Spain, Italy, and North Africa are used to explain what occurred in Britain.  This is a great read and arguably a part of the basic body of current knowledge and synthesis regarding the Dark Ages in Britain.	2002-04-04
US	53063647	RRLIN114OX69T	0752419153	895317195	Verulamium: The Roman City of St Albans	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	The Life Cycle of a Town from Pre-Conquest to Sub-Roman	I like to read archology for relaxation, particularly anything having to do with Sub-Roman Britain.  While this little book is covers the entire period in St. Albans from Pre-Conquest by the Romans to Post-Roman, I was particularly interested in the evidence of continued civic improvements shown in Verulamium after the Legions left.  That an additional water main was dug over top of Fourth Century Roman levels shows that not all Roman culture and technology had been lost at the beginning of the &quot;Dark Ages&quot;.	2002-03-21
US	53063647	RSMDVVZZSBEM6	0521568595	908686078	Agricultural Revolution in England: The Transformation of the Agrarian Economy 1500-1850 (Cambridge Studies in Historical Geography)	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	A work of economic history	This book helps one to understand what your Ag Labs were going through during this period. The &quot;Norfolk Four Course&quot; crop rotation and the enclosure movement are given prominence in explaining how Britain broke out of the Malthusian trap.	2002-03-21
US	53063647	R2ATIWCB28VR08	0226401227	968949968	The Nature of the Book: Print and Knowledge in the Making	Books	4	11	13	N	Y	Why do we trust books?	We uncritically accept that a book which says it has been written by so-and-so an author is, in fact, an accurate representation of that particular author's ideas.  We believe that a book claiming to be published by such-and-such a publisher on this-or-that date has, in truth, come from that claimed publisher on that given date.<br />Most historians of the printed word have considered our acceptance of these claims as a pre-destined result of the factory-like uniformity of print.  A printed page can be exactly reproduced over and over again through printing, and this consistency lead the reading public to trust the claimed provenance of a printed materials in comparison to manuscripts.<br />Adrian Johns' &quot;Nature of the Book&quot; disputes the inevitability of a trusted print culture.  It did not arise as a mechanistic result of the printing process.  Rather, Johns' argues that it was the individual and collective efforts of printers, booksellers, authors, and others who successes and failures prepared Western society to accept a print culture based on propriety and trust.<br />Focusing on the Stationers' Guild of London in the mid-to-late 1600s and the British Royal Society of the early-to-mid 1700s, Johns highlights critical conflicts, collusions, competitions, cooperations, and crises which directly contributed to the trusted print culture we share today.  Johns is an historian of science and he uses the development of experimental philosophy as championed by the Royal Society as a prime example of how diverse interest groups struggled with the dilemma of trusting books the printed word.<br />In nine carefully focused chapters covering over 600 pages, the author builds his case that there was nothing inevitable about how our print culture evolved.  The corollaries to our modern struggles over the veracity of electronic media are obvious.  Western society has been in this position before and Johns does a wonderful job of telling the tale.  If history is goingto repeat itself, it will ultimately be the meatware rather than the hardware which defines the trustworthiness of our electronic information culture.	2001-10-09
US	53063647	RYF7XZONYZOFC	0521289254	269720226	The Development of the Family and Marriage in Europe (Past and Present Publications)	Books	4	9	10	N	Y	A real eye-opener!	Why did Europe in particular develop the prohibitions against marry close kin that are still with us today?  Why are a deceased spouse's siblings, the spouses of deceased siblings, various degrees of cousins, and god-children forbidden from being considered eligible marriage partners?  The ancient Israelites, Greeks, and Romans had no such prohibitions.  The Germanic peoples who settled northern Europe after the Roman Empire fell in the West did not carry these taboos with them.  Where did they come from?<br />This book argues that Fourth Century Christianity invented these marriage prohibitions which had previously not existed in either Biblical or Roman civil law traditions.  The effect, if not the actual purpose, of these prohibitions was to limit the number of inheritance strategies available to property owners.  By narrowing the options for trans-generational wealth transfers (including the virtual disappearance of civil adoption), the developing Church became the beneficiary of an increasingly large number of heirless people.<br />The wealth of the Church expanded to such a point that the lay authorities had to legislate against various accumulation strategies used by the Church - culminating ultimately with the Dissolution of the Monasteries by Henry VIII.<br />The premise is a fascinating one and does a reasonable job of explaining why we have the marriage prohibitions which are with us today.  The first few chapters are a bit of a tough read as they set the anthropological ground work of the study.  However, the subsequent chapters are a historians delight.  Truly an innovative work.	2001-09-12
US	53063647	R1T742LP69KF2M	0684857359	177040953	In the Wake of the Plague: The Black Death and the World It Made	Books	1	15	17	N	Y	Just plain bad.	Disconnected ramblings sprinkled with historical trivia may be fascinating to listen to in a freshmen lecture hall, but such a style fails miserably in book form.  For all his obviously detailed knowledge of the subject, the author fails to coherently string together a premise, supporting evidence, or a conclusion.  I suppose this is the type of book one writes when one really doesn't have anything to say on a topic.<br />Sort-of based on the happenings surrounding the Black Death, this book doesn't ever come to any conclusions about the material presented - either original or in support of others'. The author plays fast and loose with historical facts and renders large doses of his highly personalized opinion on a variety of issues.<br />Don't bother picking this one up.  This is one of those books that should never have been printed in the first place.	2001-09-04
US	53063647	RIKANN8K505LF	0582040477	844905314	Alfred the Great: War, Kingship and Culture in Anglo-Saxon England	Books	5	44	44	N	Y	Captures even the smell of "the burnt cakes"	Alfred, being the only English monarch styled \\"the Great\\", is a notoriously difficult subject to write history about.  The Victorian cult of Alfred made him a marked man for the debunkers of the Dead White European Male focus of history.  Attempts at an even-handed review of the Wessex king's life are fraught with peril.<br />This book does the job magnificently.  Alfred the warrior, ruler, innovator, strategist, and moralist are all presented well within the context of a 9th century Anglo-Saxon world.  Alfred the pious and Alfred the ruthless are both shown as parts of the same man.<br />While concluding that Asser's \\"Life\\" is a legitimate source of biography for Alfred, the author does not limit himself.  Extensive use and comparison between versions of the \\"Anglo-Saxon Chronicle\\" is combined with what limited charter evidence survives, archaeological discoveries and an examination of coinage patterns to round out the picture of Alfred and his times.<br />One major strength of this work is its very careful comparisons of Alfred and his activities to those of predecessor kings of Wessex and successor kings of the Anglo-Saxons.  Alfred's reign is not studied in isolation.  How Alfred was both traditional and innovative in contrast to his father and brothers helps place Alfred in the context of his times.  The legacy which Alfred left his descendants (to become kings of all England) is given special attention.<br />The author is circumspect in trying to get inside of Alfred's head.  Alfred's physical afflictions are examined with an eye to a modern medical diagnosis and their effects on Alfred's personality.  Using the marginalia in Alfred's own translations from Latin into the vernacular, the author tries to see inside Alfred the man - all the while cognizant that such a review is only speculative.<br />This is a great book and a very good read.	2001-09-04
US	53063647	RJU71T0SJLLT3	075241478X	188339927	The End of the Western Roman Empire: An Archaeological Investigation	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	What does one wear to an End of the Empire party?	This book is about late Western Roman archaeological finds focusing on wearable grave goods such as crossbow brooches, belt sets, beads, and bracelets.  As interesting as the migration of styles and changing trends in fashions of this period are, the book fails to deliver much analysis of what these finds can tell us about the end of the Empire in the West.  There are very few conclusions presented after the evidence is discussed and this was a real disappointment.  The changing patterns of wearables along the Danube frontier is perhaps the only section in the book where the author clearly makes her point showing how this field of inquiry can tell us something specific about the geo-political situation at the end of the Western Empire.<br />The study of fashion as modeled in the archaeological record can shed some light on the end of the Antiquity and the beginnings of the &quot;Dark Ages&quot;.  However, this book does not deliver on the promise of such research.	2001-08-16
US	53063647	R363UHWP2KUI9I	075241478X	188339927	The End of the Western Roman Empire: An Archaeological Investigation	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	What does one wear to an End of the Empire party?	This book is about late Western Roman archaeological finds focusing on wearable grave goods such as crossbow brooches, belt sets, beads, and bracelets.  As interesting as the migration of styles and changing trends in fashions of this period are, the book fails to deliver much analysis of what these finds can tell us about the end of the Empire in the West.  There are very few conclusions presented after the evidence is discussed and this was a real disappointment.  The changing patterns of wearables along the Danube frontier is perhaps the only section in the book where the author clearly makes her point showing how this field of inquiry can tell us something specific about the geo-political situation at the end of the Western Empire.<br />The study of fashion as modeled in the archaeological record can shed some light on the end of the Antiquity and the beginnings of the &quot;Dark Ages&quot;.  However, this book does not deliver on the promise of such research.	2001-08-16
US	53063647	R15IRIYOXZ8IIN	047141574X	196740967	Alpha Beta: How 26 Letters Shaped the Western World	Books	5	18	19	N	N	A fun romp through the history of the alphabet.	Cohesively and convivially written as a review of the roots of our modern alphabet, &quot;Alpha Beta&quot; is a pleasure to read.  The author infuses the work with his enthusiasm for the alphabet both in its role as a technology and as a cultural icon.  The transmitted wisdom on the origins of the alphabet and the latest evidence from the archeologist's brush &amp; trowel are presented with well narrated places, events, and participants.<br />The author clearly has his favored theory on the evolutionary origins of A-to-Z and the single criticism I can level at the book is it's exclusive presentation of the Proto-Sinaitic path of development from Ancient Egyptian.  Some background on other possible lines of descent would have made the work stronger by their refutation.<br />The book is packed with interesting details and unexpected ripple effects regarding alphabet usages.  The Hebrew alphabet's success in promulgating monotheism is examined as an important effect of the adoption of alphabets.  The conditions under which some alphabets &quot;like to buy a vowel&quot; and others do not are also explored.<br />This is a highly enjoyable read - both entertaining and educational - which I can heartily recommend.	2001-07-11
US	53063647	R15RDCJJAZLX09	1558705791	37150636	Preserving Your Family Photographs: How to Organize, Present, and Restore Your Precious Family Images	Books	5	48	51	N	N	The lyrics of the song are wrong.	Mama won't take your Kodachrome away, it is time and the elements which are attacking your treasured family photographs. Your Polaroid snapshots are fading as you read this.  Those &quot;magnetic&quot; photo albums with the adhesive pages are gassing your family pictures to crumbs.  Your digital images may not be viewable by your great grandchildren. But don't give up hope - take action.  Maureen Taylor's &quot;Preserving Your Family Photographs&quot; tells you how to take charge and protect your family's photographic history. &quot;Preserving Your Family Photographs&quot; shows you how taking some simple steps now will slow down the aging process of your photographs.  And its doesn't require a chemistry set.  The book further discusses how and when to choose a professional conservator, concerns about digital photography, how to organize your collection, and even how to safely place your treasures in a scrapbook. This book takes up where &quot;Uncovering Your Ancestry Through Family Photographs&quot; leaves off.  After you've identified your family photographs, &quot;Preserving Your Family Photographs&quot; tells you how to keep them for generations to come.	2001-07-07
US	53063647	R14OCF1YVZGZDJ	1888486600	455512688	The Great Migration Begins: Immigrants to New England 1620-1633	Books	5	9	9	N	N	CD-ROM version of the classic 3-volume set.	Searchable by any keyword including date and name, this CD-ROM version of the 3-volume &quot;The Great Migration Begins&quot; is extremely convenient for genealogists to use. It contains information on over 900 early New England families and represents the first phase of the Great Migration Study Project - an effort to identify all those Europeans who settled in New England before 1633.	2001-07-07
US	53063647	R54JIS7N1U65W	0099406063	986787954	The Pound: A Biography: The Story of the Currency That Ruled the World	Books	1	1	3	N	Y	Absolutely Awful!	Popular histories of everyday items such as the British monetary unit don't have to be this poorly done.  The political and social history presented under the guise of a &quot;biography&quot; of the pound is riddled with errors.  Apparently, the author was asleep during his history classes in school.<br />This book's presentation of the economic and numismatic history of the pound is even more inaccurate.  The author would have us believe that Britain has been a strictly insular phenomenon since the before the Romans and that trade &amp; coinage influences only passed outward towards the continent.<br />Popular histories of those small things we receive the past without much consideration can be both enjoyable reading and enlightening.  This book is, unfortunately, neither.  I had a very hard time finishing it - the writing style put me to sleep.  Its glaring errors will make one wince.<br />Save your pence and spend them elsewhere.	2001-07-05
US	53063647	R9N4K5QCUOHK8	0521411416	460896887	The Phoenicians and the West: Politics, Colonies and Trade	Books	4	24	25	N	N	Very thorough.	This is an interesting book which describes the Phoenician expansion into the Western Mediterranean from the eighth to sixth centuries B.C.  The focus is the Iberian Phoenician settlements on either side of the Pillars of Hercules with Gadir (Cadiz) as the main attraction.  As the written record of the Phoenicians themselves did not survive, this work relies primarily on archaeological information and the small body of sources written by the Phoenicians' neighboring cultures (the Greek Homer's epic poetry, the Jewish Old Testament, etc.).<br />There is much discussion about the social, political, and economic reasons for the Phoenician expansion westward.  In addition, the form which this expansion took - from informal trade to outright colonization is explored.  A large part of the book is devoted to the competing historical theories regarding this expansion in which the author is obviously well-grounded.<br />Who engaged in the trade and expansion- the palace, the temple, or independent merchants?  How was it organized?  What were the ships like?  What were the commodities traded?  How were Phoenician relations with the indigenous peoples handled?  All these questions are answered.<br />There is obviously comparison between the original Phoenician settlements in the West and those of her daughter colony Carthage which succeeded them.  The emphasis in this work is on the Phoenician period rather than the following Punic period of settlement.  This is done to give the Phoenicians' initial accomplishments in the West due credit rather than have them overshadowed by Carthage.<br />With the book's emphasis on the Iberian peninsula, the Phoenician enclaves in the central Mediterranean such as on Malta, Sicily, and Sardinia do not get much attention.  I would have enjoyed more comparison between the Phoenician settlements and the subsequent Greek colonies in the West as well.<br />An interesting read on a little-known but highly-influential ancient people.  And don't forget to thank them for this alphabet while you're at it.	2001-06-09
US	53063647	R31SOYGOH68PIP	0674307607	952912084	The Footnote: A Curious History	Books	2	12	32	N	Y	Interesting topic - boring book.	This book was a disappointment to me.  The development of the use of footnotes in the study of history is an interesting enough subject.  However, the book was tedious to read.<br />There were some bits of wry humor in a few places, but considering the subject, there could have been much more.<br />The author assumes the reader has a very detailed knowledge of the academic pursuit of historical studies and that the reader shares the same love/hate relationship with the footnote as generations of historians have consummated.<br />Perhaps the book reads better in its original German.  At any rate, I would pass on this one.	2001-06-09
US	53063647	REWBEWPB9FQJP	0375504443	509246269	Double Fold: Libraries and the Assault on Paper	Books	3	12	21	N	Y	A poison pen on acid-free paper	This book is the latest salvo in an age-old war between library administrators and library users, managers versus scholars, bean counters versus book lovers.  Is a book an artifact or an information delivery system?  As an artifact, what should be done to preserve it?  As an information delivery system, what is gained or lost when the information migrates between platforms?<br />This is not Nicholson Baker at his finest.  This work is an exposé written by a zealot from one of the opposing camps.  The usual music of Baker's writing is shrill and off-key.  There are still the occasional impressively gymnastic turns of phrase and perfectly placed make-words.  But Baker (self-admittedly) has an axe to grind and the sound of the grindstone predominates.<br />The author bewails the federally-funded &quot;preservation&quot; efforts of the past decades which have unbound, microfilmed, and discarded as pulp or curios hundreds of thousands of books and periodicals.  Original paper copies have been causalities of an ongoing &quot;war against paper&quot; and their microfilm (and now digital) copies leave much to be desired.<br />Baker savages the culprits involved and few in the highest circles of library administration over the last 50 years come away with reputations unscathed.  Apparently, the author sees a Cold War spook behind every book stack.  According to Baker, its seems almost the entire profession of American librarians was working for the Military-Industrial complex as sponsored by the CIA in the 1950s and '60s.  And you know what that means...(no, I don't know either, and Baker never makes it clear why the connection would be of interest to his arguments).<br />I use microfilm copies regularly and I admit that I hate them.  That they are not as ideal to work with as the originals.  That microfilm can be poorly made, riddled with errors, and subject to deterioration goes without argument.  But Baker comes from that rarified atmosphere of the academic researcher whohas the luxury of travel access to the great research libraries around the world.  Those of us who don't exist in that space are perhaps more grateful for access to the bad copies rather than wishing for the originals.  He makes an interesting analogy between the &quot;diamonds&quot; of the originals and the &quot;cubic zirconium&quot; of the copies.  Obviously, opinions on the object's sparkle will differ between jewelers and laymen.<br />Did the originals have to be destroyed to make the copies?  Baker argues persuasively that this was a false economy foisted on a complacent library-using public by disingenuous administrators.  Was a significant part of our nation's &quot;intellectual heritage&quot; lost in the process?  Baker is less persuasive on this question.  Any loss of original materials regardless of what they contain is presented as an unexplored tragedy throughout the book.  The loss of color illustrations from the days of Yellow Journalism, cartoons, marginalia in books, etc. are obvious on microfilm copies.  Is the world really a poorer place for not having their originals?  I wish the author had devoted more attention to this point because I came away from the book with the Scottish legal verdict &quot;Not Proven&quot; uppermost in my mind.<br />You have to admire the author for putting his own money where his mouth is and rescuing original American newspaper runs from the British Library.  His argument that a change in format of information does not require the destruction of the old format is an excellent one.<br />If you are a fan of Nicholson Baker's writing, this volume will probably disappoint you.  It reads like the commercial memoir of a war correspondent rather than the fine craftsmanship you'd expect from him.	2001-05-13
US	53063647	RWRC2IXVIP7PD	038549890X	211011926	In the Beginning: The Story of the King James Bible and How it Changed a Nation, a Language, and a Culture	Books	5	77	83	N	N	Great review of the history &amp; impact of the Bible in English	&quot;In the Beginning&quot; starts out slowly, giving a potted history of the beginnings of the Reformation.  It picks up quickly however once the author gains his familiar territory of the Bible in English.  The narrative then clips along at an interesting rate as it describes the history of the Bible both before the King James Version, the great work on the KJV translation itself, and the global impact of the KJV to this day.<br />Fascinating bits of detail are scattered throughout the text.  Eight sheets of Tyndale's original 1525 Cologne printing were discovered in 1834 and show Tyndale's heavy dependence on Luther's German Bible in his first translation attempts.  &quot;In the Beginning&quot; does an outstanding job of exploring the creation and influence of the Geneva Bible - the market leader that the King James Version had to overtake.  Ever wonder why the Apocrypha was dropped from most Protestant English Bibles?  &quot;In the Beginning&quot; explains this post-KJV phenomenon in terms both religious and economic.<br />A minor annoyance in the book is its tendency to repeat turns of phrase.  A statement or quote in one paragraph can be immediately followed by the same statement or quote in a following paragraph.  The text could stand a good scrubbing to rationalize these redundant references.  Also missing were any biographies on the lesser known contributors to the KJV translation teams.  The paucity of our historic knowledge about these translators may explain this omission.<br />The best part of &quot;In the Beginning&quot; is its exploration of the KJV's impact on our language. Tyndale &amp; the KJV translators did much to preserve the Hebrew phraseology and linguistic cadence of the Old Testament.  The work delves into how English took both translated Hebrew phrases but also methods of sentence structure as its own.  It explains why the KJV translators adhered to forms of English which were already archaic to them in 1611.  The subsequent history of the King James Version's elevation to its consideration as one of the defining works of all English literature is told with both awe and humor.  Much is made of the receiving generations' assumption that the KJV was THE Bible rather than a mere translation.<br />This is an outstanding and very readable work of popular history.  You will never hear or read the English language the same way after reading &quot;In the Beginning&quot;.	2001-05-08
US	53063647	R2KIWL7QLQZJSB	0684847477	865913794	Wide As the Waters: The Story of the English Bible and the Revolution It Inspired	Books	3	39	48	N	Y	Interesting biographies behind the Bible in English	I read &quot;Wide as the Waters&quot; and Alister McGrath's &quot;In the Beginning&quot; back to back.  As they are both new releases on the same topic, this review will be somewhat comparative.<br />The strength of this work is that it reads like biography.  Tyndale, Coverdale, Henry VIII, Wolsey, More, Cromwell, Elizabeth I and James I are well covered.  What little information about the lives of the teams of King James Version translators is also included.  &quot;Wide as the Waters&quot; gives as much attention to the politicians involved in the religious controversies surrounding the history of the Bible in English as it does to the theologians and translators.  &quot;Wide as the Waters&quot; paints James I to be a canny statesman and competent theologian himself whereas &quot;In the Beginning&quot; makes James out to be Archbishop Bancroft's compliant puppet.<br />One minor detail that was annoying about &quot;Wide as the Waters&quot; is its method of source citations.  The author uses the quotes of others liberally but their attribution is placed in the back of the book and indexed only by chapter and page of the text.  This made figuring out who was being quoted more cumbersome than necessary.<br />Where &quot;Wide as the Waters&quot; fails to deliver is in its final chapter.  The KJV's impact on the English language, literature, religion, and political thought is not very well defined in its last chapter.  The connection between the KJV and the eventual English Civil War, Glorious Revolution, and American Revolution is rather fluffy.  The book's subtitle &quot;The Story of the English Bible and the Revolution It Inspired&quot; is simply a marketing tease not substantiated by the text.<br />Read &quot;Wide as the Waters&quot; for fun but read McGrath's &quot;In the Beginning&quot; for understanding.	2001-05-08
US	53063647	RWJ9798N3HL3Z	0631168575	460694961	From Memory to Written Record: England 1066 - 1307	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	Outstanding history	Moving from reliance on human memory to the written word was a long and interesting process which is fully explored by this book.  Prior to Edward I's reign, the assumption was that &quot;time out of mind&quot; was about a century prior to the present.  The date before which legal proof of rights was not required had previously been moved forward in time as required: the date of Henry I's death followed by Henry II's coronation followed by Richard I's coronation.  But there it stayed fixed by Edward I's statutes.  Time out of mind was prior to September 3, 1189.  After that date, it was expected that written records rather than human memory would confirm legally valid grants of rights.<br />The development of a written culture of everyday affairs covers many sorts of artifacts and concepts.  Tally sticks as bills and receipts, personal seals functioning as signatures, why we began signing with an &quot;x&quot;, and the number of pounds of sealing wax used by the King's Chancery over time are all explored in this book.  The development of heraldry as part of the shift from memory to written record is also commented on briefly.<br />The author carefully studies the question &quot;Were laymen literate?&quot; and tries hard to make the reader understand what being literate meant in this period.  Our modern concept of someone who can read AND write simply doesn't fit with concepts held at the time about literacy.  The author's conclusions on the pervasiveness of literacy in this period are surprising.<br />Throughout the book, the very different reasons for and processes surrounding the making of a record, the keeping of a record, and the using of a record are carefully differentiated.  This is an outstanding work of history for the student of literacy, of medieval history, and of legal history.	2001-04-24
US	53063647	R6T2PES71R3JK	067400194X	834640095	Avatars of the Word: From Papyrus to Cyberspace	Books	2	8	8	N	Y	Interesting ideas in a mixed-up presentation	There are without a doubt some brilliant ideas in this book.  However, reading the book is a bit like mining for precious ore, you have to go through a lot of uninteresting rocks to get to the good stuff.<br />It would appear that the author had some serious ideas he wanted to publish and chose book format as conventional and lucrative.  However, the book is a mish-mash of ideas that don't necessarily string together to form anything like a cohesive argument or narrative.  While this non-linear presentation works well in cyberspace, it is a frustrating thing to deal with in book format.<br />It is heartening that a classics professor would tackle a subject like the change from print to electronic technology.  His comparisons between the coming of the Internet and the rise of the codex in late antiquity are interesting.  He clearly &quot;gets&quot; the Internet and doesn't consider it the big bad book-slayer.<br />The author sprinkles in some of his theories on education, particularly post-secondary.  He poses interesting questions but provides no answers to those questions about the purpose of post-secondary education in the modern world.<br />Some of the ideas presented were compelling, the style of the book was difficult to handle, and his final comparisons between himself and Cassiodorus were a bit much.  I could only give it two stars.	2001-04-24
US	53063647	R1SSAP6GUFSR2D	0195102797	896325237	The Orthodox Corruption of Scripture: The Effect of Early Christological Controversies on the Text of the New Testament	Books	4	212	232	N	Y	Exegetical Excess	The author argues that the parties which triumphed in defining Christianity at Nicea and Chalcedon (the proto-orthodox) &quot;improved&quot; the not-yet-stabilized canon of the New Testament in the second and third centuries A.D. to counter those Christians whom they considered heretics.  Using the proto-orthodox views of Separationist, Docetic, Adoptionist and Patripassianist beliefs, the author studies the earliest existing copies of what became the New Testament for clues to the controversies and their effect on what was actually written in these copies.<br />Christology is the center of this study.  What the heretics believed in opposition to what the proto-orthodox believed about the nature of Christ are the only parts of the developing canon which are scrutinized.  Scrutinized is perhaps too broad a word.  The author puts the various extant texts under an electron microscope of scholarly inquiry.  Textual variants, external attestations, transcriptional probabilities, and intrinsic probabilities of what parts were &quot;original&quot; and what parts are &quot;improvements&quot; are culled with a fine toothed comb.  Have a good Greek grammar handy because many of the arguments hinge on a verb tense, word substitutions, genders, possessives and antecedents.  I have no Greek so many of the proofs of these arguments were beyond me.<br />Did second and third century scribes change what became the New Testament as a result of Christological controversies within the early Church?  It would appear so based on the evidence presented in this book.  The author is throughout charitable to these individual scholars of long ago, recognizing that he can only guess at the motivations of these anonymous men of the pen.  The evidence that they made what was written in the developing canon &quot;say&quot; what they already knew the words to &quot;mean&quot; is compelling.  Besides giving insight into how these texts were transmitted to us, the book also provides a potted historyof the various heretical controversies of these early centuries.  I found it to be a hard read on a fascinating topic.	2001-03-16
US	53063647	RZM1WJZVIBHYU	9004090258	214888398	Italo-Turkish Diplomacy and the War over Libya, 1911-1912 (Social, Economic and Political Studies of the Middle East and Asia)	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Rome versus the Sublime Porte in a diplomatic bluffing war.	This is a very detailed diplomatic history of the causes, international ramifications, and results of the Italo-Turkish war over Lybia and the Dodecanese islands.  Very little information regarding the war itself is given as this is almost exclusively a diplomatic history.<br />Italy, a second rate power still smarting from their defeat in Ethiopia, used the French extension of power in Morocco as cover to invade Ottoman-held Lybia under the flimsiest pretenses.  Quickly controlling the coastal regions, Italy soon found itself in a military and diplomatic stalemate with the Ottomans in the Lybian hinterland.  Great Power indifference lead to an expansion of the war to the Aegean and a temporary closing of the Straits.  It was only the beginning of the First Balkan War which threatened Ottoman possessions in Europe which hastened the Porte to the bargaining table.<br />The internal politics at Constantinople and Rome are both thoroughly discussed as background to the diplomatic maneuverings of both nations.  These are particularly interesting given the turbulent situation in the Ottoman government at the time.  Turkey's future alliance with the Central Powers and the Italian government's predilection towards fascism have their roots in the events of this period.  Italy's schizophrenic diplomatic stance with Turkey (robbing them in North Africa while propping them up in Europe) is fully explored.  Diplomatic archives from both Turkey and Italy have been thoroughly utilized by the author.  Primary sources from the foreign ministries of the Great Powers are also used to show Europe's reaction to this war.  Secondary sources such as political memoirs give the main actors' apologia for their actions and Europe's subsequent death spiral into the Great War.<br />This is a fascinating and detailed rendering of what second and third rate power diplomacy was like at the end of the Concert of Europe.	2001-03-10
US	53063647	RFVSDQX9WHAOU	0271007699	574762228	The Coming of Christianity to Anglo-Saxon England: Third Edition	Books	3	12	15	N	Y	A bit dated, but still fun to read.	This work was originally published in 1972 and thus does not reflect the most recent archeological information available regarding the Christianizing of the Anglo-Saxon peoples.<br />It is still a very enjoyable read.  The author has a lively style which flows well over the entire subject.  Events and people both great and small are considered in this comprehensive story of the  conversions of the Anglo-Saxon peoples to Christianity. Gregory the Great, Augustine, Theodore, Bede, and finally Boniface all loom large in the narrative.  The author is more charitable to Wilfrid than most.<br />I am hard pressed to find fault with this work.  However, while the Irish influence on Anglo-Saxon Christianity is thoroughly explored, the dealings of the Anglo-Saxon Church with the remaining British Christians in only lightly discussed.  The author, perhaps due to the times in which he wrote, is less-than-critical of his sources and takes the workman-like &quot;they're all we've got, so let's make the most of them&quot; attitude.  This makes for good narrative but for poor source analysis.<br />On the whole, I enjoyed the book and can recommend it.	2001-02-20
US	53063647	RRGG1K60U1TMY	0415229472	768846515	The Balkan Wars 1912-1913: Prelude to the First World War (Warfare and History)	Books	3	20	22	N	Y	&quot;Some damned silly thing in the Balkans&quot;	As Bismarck is attributed as saying in 1898, &quot;If there ever is another war in Europe, it will come out of some damned silly thing in the Balkans.&quot;<br />This book is a diplomatic and military history of the First and Second Balkan wars.  It's rather amazing that these local conflicts were not the &quot;damn silly thing&quot; and did not erupt into a wider conflict.  It would take Princip's shots at Sarajevo to spread the flames of war to the Great Powers.<br />Much of the belligerent nations' subsequent diplomatic decisions can be attributed to the events and results of the Balkan Wars.  Bulgaria's alliances with Germany in the subsequent two world wars are clearly rooted in the Balkan Wars.  Serbia's actions and the Austrian reactions to them were first choreographed during the Balkan Wars - with disastrous consequences in July of 1914.<br />The book provides excellent background on the early 20th century conflicts which incubated today's controversies regarding Macedonia, Kosovo, and other lingering Balkan animosities.<br />The author makes the point that in the Balkans, there was almost no pause between these wars and the  beginning of the Great War.  Many of the belligerents were engaged from 1912 until the Armistice of 1918.<br />Because of the short time between the end of the Balkan Wars and the beginning of the Great War, the author argues that the military lessons of the Balkan Wars regarding machine guns, quick firing artillery, and aircraft reconnaissance could not be properly absorbed by the military tacticians of the day.<br />Of particular interest to military historians is the book's description of the Gallipoli campaign during the First Balkan War in which the Turks conducted an amphibious assault against the defending Bulgarians.  The Turks were able to make good their lessons learned from their attack when they were in the reverse role of defending against the British and ANZACs in 1915.<br />The Great Power conferences which finalized theresults of the two Balkan wars were like the last symphonies in the Concert of Europe.  The Balkan belligerents had to maintain one eye on their patrons among the Great Powers as they pursued their territorial goals.  Never again would Great Power diplomatic pressure alone be successful in redrawing the borders of Europe.  For example, the birth of the Albanian state as a result of Austrian and Italian interests against those of Serbia and Greece was a major outcome of the First Balkan War.<br />I could only give this book three stars due to some shortcomings.  The maps are simple line drawings and do not provide enough detail to adequately support the text.  The author has a habit of &quot;giving away&quot; the results of a battle before his description of the entire event is complete.  For example, indicating that control of a road would be critical to an army's eventual retreat before describing the actual battle.  Finally, the author has a predilection towards perfect hindsight judgments regarding the belligerents' ways and means.<br />Overall, a nice and short read on a little documented prelude to the Great War.	2001-02-07
US	53063647	R14NM1GXPR4L7Y	0060932260	957795020	The Lighthouse Stevensons	Books	4	10	11	N	Y	An enjoyable read	I found this book to be a fast and informative read.  I am neither a lighthouse enthusiast nor a Stevenson literary junkie but still managed to enjoy my time spent reading the book.<br />I can see where this blend of biography, history, and engineering would be too thin to please serious lighthouse fans, literary historians, or marine engineers.<br />However, for the general reader, the book succeeds nicely in combining a selected history of the Stevenson family, their works for the Northern Lighthouse Board, and the family's impact on Robert Louis Stevenson.<br />It is an interesting account of the difficulties overcome in the creation of some of Scotland's most magnificent lighthouses.  The author knows how to turn a fun phrase which adds to the reading a bit of an Easter egg hunt for bon mots.<br />The typographical errors previously mentioned have been corrected in the paperback edition.	2001-02-03
US	53063647	R3ONVS8SZLE7O1	0253213800	447261986	Bayonets Before Bullets: The Imperial Russian Army, 18611914 (Indiana-Michigan Series in Russian & East European Studies)	Books	5	12	12	N	Y	Outstanding work of institutional and operational history!	This is a first-of-its-kind work in English to review the Imperial Russian Army during its crucial period of modernization from 1861 (just after Crimea) to 1914 (the eve of the Great War).<br />The author is an instructor of strategy at the US Army Command and General Staff College and is an outstanding writer of military history.<br />The defeat in Crimea lead to changes in organization, doctrine and strategy for the Russian army.  It's involvement in the Russo-Turkish war of 1877-1878 and the Russo-Japanese war of 1904-1905 gave it operational experience from which to learn (or fail to learn) the lessons which a rapid change in military technologies taught on the battlefield.<br />Russia was one of the very few European powers to fight major, non-colonial wars in this period which saw the introduction of smokeless powder, magazine rifles, quick firing artillery, and machine guns.  Contrary to popular belief, the Russian army did take active measures to adapt to the new military technologies along with improvements in transportation (railroads) and communications (telegraph, field telephones, and radio).  The Russian army from Alexander II to Nicholas II was not a hide-bound, unintelligent mamoth as it is so often depicted.<br />The author divides the work up neatly by periods and his writing flows smoothly between doctrine, strategy, organization, and operational history.  The politics of the Tsarist regime, the personality conflicts within the Tsar's army, and the technical changes on the battlefield are all woven together into a comprehensive whole. It is an excellent review of how the Russian  predilection for reliance on &quot;cold steel&quot; held up during the changes forced by the Industrial Revolution.<br />I give it all five &quot;bayonets&quot;.	2001-02-01
US	53063647	R2I3L75HD70VV8	1879311097	904591671	Kids and Kin: The Family History Research Vacation That Involves Kids	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Are We There Yet?	The adults on the trip want to do genealogy.  The kids on the same trip want to have fun.  How can you creatively involve the kids in a family history vacation?<br />This fun little book provides dozens and dozens of games which can engage children from a range of ages in a family history vacation.  The book is divided up along the logical phases of a research trip: preparation, travel, at libraries &amp; archives, visiting relatives, and returning home - plus a special section on overseas travel.<br />Most of the games are simple and require nothing more complex than paper an pencil.<br />You are sure to find entertaining gems which children will enjoy among the &quot;Mom's Side/Dad's Side&quot; game, the &quot;Mystery Photo&quot; game, the &quot;Census Records&quot; game, the &quot;Quiet, Please in the Library&quot; game, or the &quot;Dearly Departed&quot; game.  These are just a few examples.<br />The only improvement I could ask of this book would be that it include a few games to keep kids involved on cemetery visits.	2001-01-15
US	53063647	R19SCOYWXDWJ06	1558705279	108527309	Uncovering Your Ancestry Through Family Photographs (PBS Ancestor)	Books	5	69	71	N	N	A beautiful and useful book	This book is an outstanding way to expand your family history skills through photo research. It provides step-by-step advice on how to identify ancestors in photos using their poses, clothes, studio props, and other information.<br />After giving a history of photography with emphasis on identifying types of photographs by era, the author provides chapters such as &quot;Looking for Clues&quot;, &quot;Identifying Costume&quot;, and the very important &quot;Identifying the Photographer&quot;. The book also gives detailed information on how to build your own family photograph collection including the use of photograph worksheets and proper labeling.<br />The photographs used to illustrate the book are simply glorious. It is a visual treat to follow the pictorial examples given to explain the text. Each photo is an exquisite specimen of how our ancestors faced the camera.	2001-01-05
US	53063647	R3L62WTOITZ4C0	0788403753	400955065	A Medical Miscellany for Genealogists	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Suggested cures for the Genealogy pox	The other night, my great aunt was talking about &quot;St. Vitus' Dance&quot; as a disease someone had once and I was forced to pull down my copy of Medical Miscellany for Genealogists to figure out what she was talking about.  Turns out to be a nervous condition.  It was then that I realized how much I depended on this splendid little volume being close to my research desk.<br />Family historians are constantly confronting antiquated, slang, foreign, or otherwise strange terms for diseases and causes of death.  This book alphabetically lists old terms for diseases, cures, and practitioners.<br />Did you know that corn smut (a fungus found on corn) was used for stimulating contractions in childbirth?  That &quot;summer complaint&quot; was infantile diarrhea or that &quot;phossy jaw&quot; was the result of over-exposure to phosphorus?  Or that &quot;Oil of Whelpes&quot; (the ingredients are disgusting) was used to cure gun shot wounds or that &quot;prairie women&quot; was the term used for women brought to mental asylums suffering from depression caused by living too long on the isolated prairies of Kansas &amp; Nebraska?<br />One of the most useful things about this book is the tremendous amount of cross referencing done between different terms for the same ailment.  It is a terrific reference book.<br />Between the gruesome names for some of the diseases, the horrible cures, and the quackery of the practitioners, it's very clear that you did not want to get sick in the past.	2001-01-05
US	53063647	ROCYM4J3GYNXN	0295972483	126580720	Historical Atlas of East Central Europe (History of East Central Europe)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The best historical atlas for genealogy in the region	From the Baltic to the Balkans and from 400 A.D. to 1992 A.D., this atlas colorfully covers the territory in the best possible way.<br />Researchers with Slavic, Germanic, Jewish, Greek or other ancestry from east central Europe will find this historical atlas invaluable.<br />It contains 89 wonderful maps which show useful details such as the Catholic diocese and archdiocese as they appeared in 1900, the tremendous populations movements from 1944 to 1948, Jewish settlement, and of course the ethnic composition of the region at various periods. Each map comes one or more pages of explanatory text as well.<br />I find this atlas to be a constant help in my struggle to understand the changing borders of the region throughout history. You can't understand family history if you don't have an understanding of the history of the family's place of origins. This atlas is an ideal way to better understand the history of east central Europe.	2001-01-05
US	53063647	R2RYNJWN64VORV	091648906X	11885707	Ancestry's Concise Genealogical Dictionary	Books	5	22	22	N	N	A handy guide to genealogical terminology	This little gem is an A to Z dictionary containing brief definitions of thousands of words which family historians may encounter.<br />What's cornage?<br />What did a furner do for work?<br />What was kept in a neatry?<br />Who worked with St. Hugh's bones?<br />The answers can all be found in the Concise Genealogical Dictionary.<br />This dictionary will be particularly helpful to family historians confronted with estate inventories which have archaic terms for household goods or farm implements, for translating obscure causes of death, or for determining occupations based on slang or colloquial expressions.<br />It's a handy little volume to have about.	2001-01-05
US	53063647	R2KCA473SU9WAN	0140266534	345400706	The Northern Crusades: Second Edition	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	How the Baltic became a &quot;Catholic lake&quot;	This is an excellent introduction to the history of the Teutonic Order and the various &quot;crusades&quot; they carried out around the Baltic.  It also covers Swedish activity in Finland.<br />The author carefully avoids the nationalistic controversies which still plague the history of the region.  The account is even-handed in its treatment of the Order, its strengths &amp; failures, and of the native peoples who were crusaded against.<br />It is a fast read with a lively narrative.  I can highly recommended the book.	2001-01-04
US	53063647	R3P4SXHQ6R6WR	040500530X	884183224	Immigration and the Commissioners of Emigration of the State of New York	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Before Ellis Island	This is a re-print of a study first published in 1870.  It covers the immigrant to New York's experience from the sea voyage to their arrival in New York at Castle Gardens and at Ward's Island.<br />If your immigrant arrived in New York before Ellis Island opened, this book will be enlightening regarding the process they went through.<br />There are a few interesting engravings in this book showing Castle Gardens and Ward's Island.  The only drawback to the book is that it does read like it was written in 1870.	2001-01-04
US	53063647	R3T9ZXJ0BS3Y6I	0743200101	420421531	A World Full of Gods: The Strange Triumph of Christianity	Books	2	19	29	N	N	A flawed attempt to make history more readable.	I was disappointed with this book.  The admittedly clever techniques of trying to explain early Christianity through the notes of time travelers, a television script, make believe letters between early Christians, and critiques of these techniques from &quot;colleagues&quot; simply didn't work for me.<br />Don't get me wrong, there is obviously solid scholarship behind this unique presentation.  The information presented is very interesting but the method of story telling gets in the way.  The author is a academic and not a novelist.  The contrived nature of  the novel-like elements detracted from the history being presented.<br />The book did add to my historical understanding of the development of Christianity, but I would not wish to read another work of scholarship written in a similarly &quot;innovative&quot; style	2001-01-04
US	53063647	R35WKX0117YICK	0713648597	978480056	The Dictionary of Genealogy (Reference)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Excellent reference for UK genealogy	This book is one of my favorites for understanding family history in the United Kingdom.<br />It is basically an A through Z dictionary of genealogical terms and concepts commonly encountered in British research.  The definitions given are both thorough and entertainingly written.  Many include references on where more information on the topic may be obtained or where particular records are held.  There are illustrations and photographs every four to five pages showing useful examples of terms defined in the text. <br />If you don't know an advowson from a wardmote, this dictionary will help you decipher both the quaint and common words used in British family history.	2001-01-04
US	53063647	RUJUVWWLRP1GW	0916489922	117213590	The BCG Genealogical Standards Manual	Books	5	86	88	N	N	Doing genealogy the right way	Since its start in 1964, the Board for Certification of Genealogists has promoted standards of competence and ethics in genealogy designed to protect the public, the consumer, and the profession of genealogy.<br />This excellent book from the BCG distills these standards into clear statements regarding:<br />Genealogical Research - genealogical proof, data collection, evidence evaluation, &amp; compilations. (If any of these terms are unfamiliar to you, this book might be a real eye-opener.)<br />Genealogical Teaching - for lecturers, instructors &amp; educational writers.<br />Continuing Education in Genealogy.<br />The bulk of the book is in its excellent appendices where examples of genealogical reports, proof summaries, compiled lineages, pedigrees, and genealogies are given to clearly illustrate what good genealogy looks like.<br />This book is great for measuring yourself against how the very best genealogists conduct and report their research.  Seeing how proper genealogy should be done makes us all better genealogists.	2001-01-04
US	53063647	RA5UDXXJG6M3D	0961542004	62954503	If I Can You Can Decipher Germanic Records	Books	4	33	33	N	Y	A useful research tool!	I remember the dread with which I first faced German genealogical records written or printed in Gothic script.  It seemed like a completely alien alphabet.  However, with a little practice and the useful examples in this book, you can decipher such records yourself.<br />This book covers the Gothic alphabet and shows variations of handwritten script for each letter.  It then provides handwritten script examples of common genealogical words and their German and English translation.  Handwritten symbols and common abbreviations found in Germanic records are also covered.<br />Sections are devoted to showing side-by-side comparisons of Latin, English, Danish, and handwritten German script for common genealogical terms, occupations &amp; titles, and diseases. There is also a useful timeline. This handy book is spiral-bound.	2001-01-04
US	53063647	R3SLBD6LMNUHC0	0252065409	789023961	Forbidden Relatives: The American Myth of Cousin Marriage	Books	5	104	104	N	Y	Have we made a Taboo-boo?	This is a work of social anthropology.  The author is a professor of anthropology at Kansas State University.  It is a quick and easy read even if you managed to avoid anthropology classes in school like I did.  References in the text are conveniently relegated to the ten page bibliography.<br />Students of human societies will find this book fascinating of course.  Family historians who may find that their lines &quot;cross&quot; more than once due to cousin marriage will also learn a great deal from this book.  The acceptability and legality of cousin marriage has varied over time and cultures for a variety of reasons.  This book is a guide to understanding those historical and cultural reasons.  From Leviticus to Archbishop Parker's Table in the Book of Common Prayer, marriage prohibitions based on the degrees of consanguinity have effected how our families combine for millennia.  This book is important background to understanding how families came to be the way they are.<br />The book examines the social and legal prohibitions against cousin marriage in the United States by reviewing their history and comparing U.S. prohibitions to laws and customs about cousin marriage around the world. It reviews the biological evidence regarding the negative impacts of cousin marriage. Finally, the social impacts of cousin marriage and its prohibitions are briefly discussed.<br />Thirty-one U.S. states have some form of prohibition against cousin marriage.  Nineteen states have no such prohibitive laws.  No European nation prohibits cousin marriages.  Why do these prohibitions exist and why the variance between nations and states?  This book answers those questions directly.<br />The author argues that such prohibitions were a late nineteenth century enforcement of the bio-evolutionary belief that cousin marriage threatened the civilized status of the United States.  Cousin marriage was seen as step towards a &quot;less developed&quot; or &quot;more barbarous&quot; level of human society.  States entering the Union prior to about 1860 did not have laws against cousin marriage.  Almost all entering after 1860 prohibited cousin marriage to some degree.  Clearly, the legal prohibitions began long before modern genetic science could provide any guidance on the issue.<br />The now commonly held assumption in America today is that the prohibitions against cousin marriage are to prevent cousins from producing less intelligent or otherwise &quot;less fit&quot; offspring.  We often point to the Royal houses of Europe as examples of the negative effects of cousin marriage.  The hemophilia carried by Queen Victoria and passed to many of the other Royal houses through inter-marriage is often erroneously used as a specific admonition against the practice of cousin marriage.  Successful marriages between first cousins, such as Charles Darwin and his wife, have been uniformly ignored in the popular mythology of this taboo.  The Darwins produced ten healthy offspring, several of whom were just as exceptional as their famous father.<br />The author argues convincingly that modern genetic science does not support the prohibitions against cousin marriage.  Genetic concerns about offspring have nothing to do with the marriage of cousins and everything to do with the frequency of particular &quot;bad&quot; genes in the population and the individual likelihood that a specific couple will produce offspring effected by a particular &quot;bad&quot; gene.  The slightly (very slightly) increased risk from detrimental recessive genes in the offspring of blood relatives argues for genetic counseling rather than outright prohibitions against particular marriage partners.<br />So if genetic science is no help in support of the prohibition of cousin marriage, why are the laws still on the books?  The author hints at an interesting theory just at the end of the book.  Noting that the creation of prohibitive laws against cousin marriage coincide with the massive waves of immigration into the United States from the mid-1800s to the 1920s, the author suggests that such prohibitions may have been designed to help stir the Melting Pot.  The author's corresponding tie-in of his theory to the marriage prohibitions promulgated by the Roman Catholic church in the early Dark Ages is pure genius.  I won't &quot;give away the ending&quot;, but the book is worth reading just for the author's theory on the acculturation factors which may underlie our cousin marriage prohibitions.	2000-12-20
US	53063647	R17WQXXJ9WWGJO	0198208421	313377824	The Development of Agrarian Capitalism: Land and Labour in Norfolk 1440-1580 (Oxford Historical Monographs)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Economic history of the late Medieval countryside in Norfolk	This book's aim is to search out the early beginnings of agrarian capitalism in England.  In particular, the book focuses on the  transition from a rural, peasant society based on subsistence-oriented agriculture to a market-dependent economy.<br />By looking particularly at the period from the end of serfdom in England to the dispossession of the majority of the English population from the land, this historical review of the rural economy falls into both the late Medieval and early Modern periods of history.<br />The book takes a detailed look at one village in northeast Norfolk - Marsham - and the primary manor in the village - that of Hevingham Bishops.  The manorial rolls of this manor are compared to its neighboring manors for details about tenure and transfer of land.  In addition, surviving wills &amp; parish registers from Marsham and several additional parishes are reviewed to determine family relationships, inheritance strategies, and information on landless families.  Finally, tax assessments, quarter session rolls, and church warden accounts are used to provide information about wealth distribution and wage labor rates.<br />By studying the local data within the limits of the time boundaries mentioned in the title and the specific region described above, the author provides a fascinating look at economic life of that particular area of Norfolk.<br />This book contains many interesting insights into the lives of this rural population.  The market for land bought and sold between tenants was active from the earliest period.  The annual &quot;hiring fairs&quot; for agricultural and domestic servants were not common in the period - hiring being done throughout the year.  Different villages benefited from the Worsted trade in differing degrees.  There is much more.<br />A truly fascinating economic micro-study of one part of Norfolk's amazing history.	2000-12-11
US	53063647	RD64LZSFHQJBP	0965333809	17140395	American Society Medals: An Identification Guide	Books	5	10	10	N	N	An amazing resource!	This book is not out-of-print.  Information about its availability may be obtained from its authors at LeeMedals@aol.com .<br />This is an amazing book.  Perhaps the only one of its kind. In 320 pages with 640 high resolution black &amp; white photos, the authors cover the medals of over 200 societies.<br />Colonial descendant societies, Revolutionary War societies such as the Daughters/Sons of the American Revolution, Civil War societies like the Grand Army of the Republic and the Daughters of the Confederacy, are all well represented in these pages.<br />Medals from more obscure groups such as the Order of the White Crane and the Saint Nicholas Society of the City of New York are also represented.<br />The emphasis of the book is definitely on military and lineage societies rather than on Masonic or other fraternal organizations such as the Odd Fellows or Knights of Columbus.<br />Information about each pictured medal is included along with a potted history about the issuing society.  Why the medal was issued, who it was presented to, and changes or variations if known are described.<br />If you have an old society medal saved as a keepsake in your family or if you have a photograph of an ancestor wearing a medal , this book may help you identify the organization to which they belonged.	2000-12-11
US	53063647	R3VOMMW8LY8YET	0850335647	338035444	Huguenot Ancestry	Books	4	23	24	N	N	Introduction to Huguenot genealogy	This book covers some of the basic history of the Huguenots and their settlement areas in Great Britain and later in North America and South Africa.<br />It discusses the records from the United Kingdom which can assist a researcher in tracing Huguenots.  Everything from Probate to Livery Company records are discussed.  In addition, a brief chapter is included on research sources in France, the Netherlands, Germany, and Switzerland.<br />This is a good introductory book, particularly if you suspect that your Huguenots passed through Britain in their travels.	2000-11-12
US	53063647	R2I542H3D7NCRM	0060195185	426668709	The Great Arc: The Dramatic Tale of How India was Mapped and Everest was Named	Books	4	17	17	N	Y	The compass-wallahs gird India	This is a fun, short read.  <br />The British Great Trigonometrical Survey of India was an epic undertaking spanning decades which took the measure of the sub-continent.<br />The book is a brief but lively biography of the two men who headed the survey - William Lambton and George Everest.  The progress of their efforts across the Indian landscape makes for fascinating reading.<br />The amazing accomplishments of the Survey in the face of fever, tigers, and other resistance are highlighted in the book.  The naming of Mount Everest is but an historical afterthought to the incredible saga of the Survey itself.<br />This entertaining and highly readable book does touch on some of the social, political, and scientific ramifications of Survey - but only briefly.  The narrative is driven by the progress and setbacks of the Survey itself.	2000-11-11
US	53063647	R2G58HGFLZ1RNI	1587990016	442052730	The Weightless Society	Books	1	11	23	N	Y	The Looney Left Learns Buzzword Bingo	It could only have come from the Nanny State.  Don't understand the global financial markets?  We'd best regulate them back to the days of Bretton Woods.  Crowded cities?  Invest in public transportation.  Education in disarray?  More public funds to the decaying public education machine.  Afraid of private industry being granted patents on genetic sequences?  Public ownership is the obvious answer.<br />The difference here is only one of accent.  The author begrudgingly and with apparent difficulty admits that the private sector does play a leading role in economic growth and technological innovation.  Words like &quot;greed&quot; and phrases like &quot;filthy rich&quot; abound.  It's clear that the author is uncomfortable with the private sector's victory over the Left.  He does his best to use the word entrepreneur without gritting his teeth.  He is simply ideologically unable to recognize that the real engine of growth and innovation is the motive of individual gain.  I got the distinct impression that the author learned just enough about business and technology from his work as a business journalist to obtain the jargon without really understanding what he's talking about.  Perhaps this is why journalists shouldn't hurt themselves attempting to explain economics.<br />This book was about five years out of date at the time it was published.  If you've read any of the recent work of the leading futurists, this book will be entirely rudimentary to you.  The author is still filled with wonder that he can work from home with a laptop and free-lance his skills on the open market.  This has been a way of life for some of us for years.<br />When dealing with world-changing technologies in genetics and information processing, the author really didn't have a grasp of what he was writing about.  It read more like regurgitated columns from a Sunday newspaper than like a serious student's musings on technology's impact on the global economy.<br />As an apology for the failures of the public sector in the new economy and as re-assurance to the defeated Left that there remains a role for the Nanny State, this book will be a success.  Anyone who is already living and working in the new economy needn't waste their time reading what they already know.<br />If Tony Blair really is taking advice from this guy, heaven help Britain.  It's a day late and a Euro short.	2000-11-08
US	53063647	R8AAMYVVKFCUY	0521437733	749302823	The Invention of Tradition (Canto)	Books	4	32	44	N	Y	The truth behind the tartans!	Hugh Trevor-Roper's contribution to this book is priceless.  In his chapter &quot;Invention of Tradition: The Highland Tradition of Scotland&quot;, he details for the reader where the supposedly &quot;ancient&quot; costume of Scotland came from.  The kilt was invented by an English Quaker about 1726 to allow his Highland workmen to more easily move while smelting the iron ore he was extracting.  The kilt was thus an expression of the Industrial Revolution rather than an ancient freedom of the heather.<br />The &quot;setts&quot; of tartans purporting to show a particular pattern of plaid belonging to a particular Highland clan is an even more recent invention.  The concept of a unified group wearing the same tartan began with the English formation of the Highland regiments in the 1740s and later.  The Scottish cloth industry recognized a good thing when they saw it and with the help of the Scottish Romantic movement and with promotion by Sir Walter Scott, by the 1820s, Clan/tartan pattern books (which often disagreed with one another) were happily catering to this invented tradition.<br />Invented by mis-guided or plainly fraudulent &quot;antiquarians&quot;, the concept of particular tartan patterns being associated with a specific Clan is one of the long-running jokes played by the Scots on the rest of the world.  Rather like the game of golf.	2000-10-26
US	53063647	R3BN4AZWG5XGQE	0850333989	813114995	The Phillimore Atlas and Index of Parish Registers	Books	5	18	18	N	N	An outstanding reference book of UK genealogical research	Contrary to the availablity information provided here, this book is not out of print.<br />It is an absolute MUST HAVE if you're doing UK genealogical research! It provides maps to the parish boundaries for each of the counties of England,Wales and now Scotland. Each county map showing parish boundaries for England and Wales is placed next to a historical map for that same county.  This provides an excellent opportunity to locate parishes in a historical context.<br />The real gem of this book is the information on the location of parish records.  For each parish, the extant dates of the records available for that parish are given as well as the location of where those records may be consulted.<br />An outstanding reference work for UK genealogy.	2000-10-25
US	53063647	R1OLK48PQ2AFRR	0802808867	746169937	The Anabaptist Story	Books	5	51	51	N	Y	Good historical review of the early Anabaptists.	Gives the historical background, foundation, and progress of the &quot;re-baptizers&quot; as their critics called them.  The ministries of the early Anabaptist leaders are followed in detail in both Switzerland, Germany, and Holland.  After a historical review of each leader's influence on the movement, the latter half of the book provides a detailed examination of these leaders' positions on matters of doctrine such as infant baptism, the trinity, pacifism, the swearing of oaths, the ban, and civil authority.<br />Perhaps the most interesting sections of this book relates to the  ongoing and violent persecutions which befell the early Anabaptists.  Not only the dominant Catholic hierarch but their fellow Reformers made martyrs out of the early Anabaptists.  The arguments and misrepresentations made against the Anabaptists by their Catholic and Protestant tormentors helps to define what these people did, in fact, believe in.<br />A great book for understanding where the Mennonites, Hutterites, and other Anabaptists came from.	2000-10-25
US	53063647	R2DSVTRVIFY236	0750919752	68569217	The Great Stink of London:  Sir Joseph Bazalgette and the Cleansing of the Victorian Metropolis	Books	4	10	10	N	Y	The politics of Victorian sanitary engineering.	While the title implies the book's focus will be London's &quot;Great Stink&quot; of 1858, it is in fact a short biography of the eminent Victorian civil engineer Sir Joseph Bazalgette.  Less remembered than his fellow engineers Isambard Brunel or Robert Stephenson, Bazalgette was the Chief Engineer of London's Metropolitan Board of Works for some 30 years.<br />During his tenure, he oversaw the construction of the great intercepting sewers of London which effectively removed the recurring threat of cholera from the city even before that disease's transmission mechanism was fully understood.  In addition, the great Embankments along the Thames were designed and built by Bazalgette which make the modern waterfront as we know it today.  He also built three bridges still standing across the Thames and designed many of the modern thoroughfares of London.<br />This book focuses on the long political battles waged in Parliament, the press, and within the City itself to solve the massive problem of human waste disposal in the world's largest western metropolis of the day.  Although ostensibly about a civil engineer, there is not much engineering in the book - making it highly accessible to the layperson.  Copious contemporary illustrations out of &quot;Punch&quot; and the &quot;Illustrated London News&quot; along with lengthy quotations from &quot;The Times&quot; make the Victorians' view of this smelly problem come to life.  It's fortunate that this is not a scratch-and-sniff book.<br />The main chapters include those devoted to the invention of the water closet (a sewage nightmare), cholera and sanitation, and the building of the embankments.  Throughout the book, small sidebars give potted biographies of key players and interested parties of the day such as Dickens, W.H. Smith, Gladstone, Dr. John Snow, and others.  These are great little tidbits on the people featured in the main narrative and they are liberally sprinkled with caricatures from &quot;Spy&quot;.<br />Thebook does touch on Bazalgette's early endorsement and use of Portland cement as a technical innovation as well as the quality assurance testing techniques that he enforced during his projects.  So engineer, take heart!  There are interesting bits for you as well.<br />If dark places under the heart of the metropolis is your area of interest, see also &quot;London Under London&quot; by Richard Trench &amp; Ellis Hillman for sewers, the Tube, and more subterranean passages.  And if you simply must have olfactory re-enforcement to imagine the past, try &quot;Victorian Vapours&quot; by Mary J. Dobson.	2000-10-13
US	53063647	R2TCE8GETJRFPC	030435273X	16309853	History of Warfare: War at Sea in the Ironclad Age	Books	3	27	30	N	Y	Wish it were better.	I devour just about any book I can get my hands on about pre-Dreadnought warships from the period 1860 to 1904.  This book is nicely illustrated and the battle diagrams commissioned for the book make it worth the purchase price. However, it is not a very detailed history of this period of naval innovation.<br />The narrative comes off as a gloss of other recent works such as &quot;Warrior to Dreadnought&quot; by David Brown, &quot;Ironclads at War&quot; by Alessandro Massignani, &quot;The Long Arm of Empire&quot; by Richard Brooks, and &quot;Field Gun Jack Versus the Boers&quot; by Tony Brigland.<br />The book is written by a retired Rear Admiral of the Royal Navy and if you read quietly, you can faintly hear &quot;Britannia Rules the Waves&quot; playing while you turn the pages.  While the RN dominated this period, the book suffers from being a bit too chauvinistic regarding British innovations and abilities versus the rest of the world.<br />There are a few incorrect dates and a couple of pictures which are not representative of the period under consideration - probably due to the book being part of a general series on the history of warfare rather than a specialist naval book.<br />Contemporary photos, prints, and artwork are found throughout the book and it is a visual pleasure.  The campaign maps and 3-D battle diagrams including Kinburn, Sweaborg, Lissa, Angamos Point, the Yalu, and the Yellow Sea are outstanding.<br />With a focus on the Royal Navy, the book does give many pages over to the American Civil War and does a nice job of including the South American wars involving pre-Dreadnoughts as well as actions in the Far East.<br />I would buy this book over again, I just wish it were more substantial.	2000-10-13
US	53063647	R11C2G2FJ17WEQ	0719552885	351463692	London Under London: A Subterranean Guide	Books	5	21	22	N	N	History you can dig.	This is a fantastic history of what's underneath the ground of today's London. Blending history, geography, and engineering, this book describes the smothered streams and covered rivers, the water pipes and sewers, and the tunnels under the Thames.<br />A major section is devoted to the London Underground - the &quot;Tube&quot; - and its history. The Post Office's automated mail-handling railway is briefly touched on as well.<br />The role of London's underground spaces during wartime is reviewed including the underground factories and the Cabinet War Rooms of the Second World War.<br />The book is profusely illustrated with a heavy emphasis on contemporary cut-away and explanatory drawings. The pictures make the text come alive.<br />A really great book for the Anglophile or London-buff.	2000-10-13
US	53063647	R3T0MXFLPKZKVX	0375402101	464262522	Arming America: The Origins of a National Gun Culture	Books	2	25	53	N	Y	Fascinating premise - failed execution	This book has received a good deal of press attention because it does tackle a highly interesting and timely question - where did our national gun culture come from? What made the myth of an armed populace ready at a moment's notice to defend our liberties against foreign invasion or internal tyranny?<br />Great question and this book frames it well. But it doesn't do a very convincing job of answering the question. The problems facing the Founding Fathers regarding a nearly-useless militia and a largely unarmed populace have been well documented in the past fifty years or so. The myth of the minuteman was put to rest long ago. Unfortunately, the majority of this book simply heaps more dirt on the grave without doing much to explain where the myth actually came from.<br />And that's where the author really misses his mark. It is a eulogy to the myth without sufficient explanation of where the myth was born and raised. It seems as if the author's research was cut off in the middle due to a rush to get into print on this topical and commercially-viable issue.<br />Ending the book at the Civil War with the modern arms industry still in its infancy does no justice to the commercial propagation of the myth. Neither is the ongoing literary and popular cultural expression of the myth explored much past Appomattox Courthouse. This is a real shame because the book leaves you asking for more.<br />If you accept the book's premise that the gun culture arose in the late 1800s rather than in the 1700s, then the book piles on the evidence that it did not exist in the 1700s. But how did it come about? Why is it so prevalent? Who made it so? These questions are not simply not answered.<br />The author's comfort area is clearly with the culture and records of the 1700s as more and more historical inaccuracies creep into the narrative as the books winds up at the Civil War. I think the author must have been rushing at that point because to consider repeating arms to have had any noticeable impact on the outcome of the Civil War is clearly in error. Furthermore, George Custer's men did not carry repeating rifles although their Indian opponents did. The 7th Cavalry has been shown by archaeologists to have been greatly out-gunned at the Little Bighorn. Trivial errors perhaps, but it does make one question the accuracy of the other statements the author makes regarding the prevalence of firearms, their use and function in his comfort era of the 1700s.<br />I was disappointed in this book and I can only hope that a &quot;Part II&quot; will some day make the work a solid whole.	2000-10-05
US	53063647	R1XI0N08TPND0N	1887609105	54427396	Understanding and Using Baptismal Records	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Simply outstanding!	This book is what all great genealogical books aspire to be. If I ever learn to write, I'd like to be able to write like John Humphrey.<br />Masterfully weaving a combination of history, theology, and a thorough knowledge of the extant records, the author creates a tapestry of knowledge for the researcher confronting baptismal records.<br />While focused in early Pennsylvania before and during the Revolutionary war, that Commonwealth's great flowering of religious freedom allowed many differing denominations to exist side by side. For this reason, the book is not just about Pennsylvania baptisms, but about the baptismal practices, record keeping traditions, and limitations of baptismal records for all the major denominations which found their way to America's shores in this period.<br />Did your Catholics or Lutherans come over later? This book will still help you understand what might be in their local parish registers - both in the Old Country and here in America. And why don't the Quaker's baptize? <br />I could go on with more examples of why this book is outstanding. Suffice it to say that in my personal research, this book helped me to better understand why the baptism records were made the way they were.<br />I particularly enjoyed this book's coverage of the problems faced by parents out on the early frontier when they had an infant to be baptized. The paucity of clergy and the rarity of paper books goes a long way towards explaining the problems you'll encounter when searching for a pioneer baptism.	2000-09-21
US	53063647	RKBW42680GPR1	0521634938	607836940	The Invention of the Passport: Surveillance, Citizenship and the State (Cambridge Studies in Law and Society)	Books	4	17	19	N	Y	Papers please!	A very interesting and highly readable account of the development of our  modern system of passports.<br />Passports have not always been a requirement  for crossing international boundaries.  The invention and spread of the  concept of a nation-state first in Europe and then around the globe has  seen fluctuations in various governments' requirements for both internal  and external travel documents.  The mercantilist monarchies attempted to  retain tight controls while New World migration required no entry documents  at all.  The free trade liberalism of the 1800s brought down some passport  requirements such that fictional Phineas Fogg could dash off around the  globe with no passport other than a carpet bag full of  banknotes.  The  20th Century saw the re-introduction of many formerly relaxed passport  controls.<br />Beginnning with the French Revolutionaries' pre-occupation with  travel controls, the book covers the development of passport requirements  in the formation of the German nation, observes the great changes in  passport restrictions following the First World War, and ends with a review  of passport controls in the modern era, including the development of  &quot;international&quot; passports for Displaced Persons.<br />This is an  excellent study which shows how passports have fit into modern nations'  changing needs to identify both their own citizens and foreigners.  The  author argues persausively that a nation's ability to differentiate  &quot;insiders&quot; from &quot;outsiders&quot; is one of the primary  definitions of a nation-state.<br />Great reading for those interested in the  development of the modern state, in the development of travel controls, and  in the history of identification documents.	2000-09-09
US	53063647	REXFP4QDNMIMQ	0806313625	395791979	State Census Records	Books	5	46	46	N	N	WHEN they were taken, WHAT they asked, &amp; WHERE to find them.	Once a family historian has exhausted all Federal census records and  worked through all the vital records available to them, they must use  alternate sources to hunt their elusive ancestors.<br />State census records  are one of the under-utilized alternate sources for American genealogical  research and Ann Lainhart's book is designed to make finding state census  records easier.<br />Organized on a state-by-state basis, &quot;State Census  Records&quot; tells you for each state WHEN non-Federal censuses were  conducted.  In cases where the state censuses did not cover the entire  state, the counties which were included are listed.<br />The book describes  WHAT questions were asked by that particular census so that a researcher  may estimate the research value of each.<br />Finally and most importantly,  &quot;State Census Records&quot; tells you where these censuses are  available: various state archives, the Family History Library and its  associated Centers, other libraries, or in published form.  Publication  information for printed census records is given in full.<br />If you have  ancestors who moved around the United States between the decennial Federal  censuses, this book is the essential reference you require to figure out  where to look next for them.<br />There are other benefits in using state  censuses as well. They asked questions different from those on the Federal  censuses - some of which are genealogical gold mines.  For example, one  Iowa census asked for mother's maiden name.  State census records may not  be restricted by the 72-year closure rules that apply to the Federal  censuses.  Some state censuses taken as recent as the 1940s are already  available.<br />Perhaps the most common reason that state censuses are  consulted is due to the near-complete loss of the 1890 Federal census.  There were, however, many state &amp; territorial censuses taken in the  years 1885, 1892, and 1895 which can help make up for this loss of the  Federal census.<br />&quot;State Census Records&quot; is one of the primary  reference works for American genealogy. It is the only work of its kind to  provide a guide to the diverse records of state censuses.sus.<br />&quot;State Census Records&quot; is one of the primary  reference works for American genealogy. It is the only work of its kind to  provide a guide to the diverse records of state censuses.	2000-09-06
US	53063647	R3K0E827Z3PGL4	027101833X	45481190	Trade in Strangers: The Beginnings of Mass Migration to North America	Books	5	22	22	N	Y	The fascinating mechanics of early immigration.	How did tens of thousands of Germans and Irish arrive in America before  the War for Independence?<br />How did they decide on the journey?  What  factors turned their heads westward instead of to the eastern settlement  schemes of Prussia, or the Austrian or Russian empires? Where did they get  their advice from?  Who led the Germans down the Rhine?  How were they  collected for trans-Atlantic shipment?  Which middlemen profited from (or  exploited) the &quot;trade in strangers&quot;?  What were the costs of  their passage?  How were they received in the valley of the  Delaware?<br />This scholarly book addresses the earliest trans-Atlantic mass  migration to North America - those immigrants from southwestern Germany and  northern Ireland who arrived prior to 1775.  It answers the above questions  and many more.<br />Our immigrant ancestors didn't just jump on a boat one day  and arrive in the New World many weeks later without an entire system of  personal and commercial contacts, information flows, and market forces to  facilitate their passage.  The huge influx of Germans prior to the  Revolution followed a very complex chain of immigration which ensured that  ships sailing to Philadelphia from ports in Holland carried  &quot;Redemptioners&quot; rather than mere ballast.  This book is primarily  focused on their experiences.<br />The later and lesser pre-1775 Irish  immigration differed significantly from the German experience both in  immigrant composition and geographic mix between the northern counties and  the southern counties of Ireland.  Elements of the both the German  immigrant trade and the Irish immigrant trade prior to the Revolution set  the pattern for all later migration in the 1800s.<br />If you have Palatine,  Swiss, or other German ancestors who landed in Philadelphia prior to 1775,  this work is a fascinating study in understanding what they were up against  - the &quot;system&quot; that moved them and the challenges they faced  within that system.<br />Using both first-hand accounts and statistical  analysis of diverse sources and studies, &quot;Trade in Strangers&quot; is  an excellent  way to understand early German and Irish immigration into the  New World.  Its focus is primarily the German immigration into the port of  Philadelphia but it does mention why other destinations in America were  less successful at attracting these immigrants.  The smaller Irish  immigration prior to 1775 is dealt with to a lesser extent and is mostly  used as contrast for comparison to the simultaneous German  immigration.<br />The elements of the system of immigration to America which  were to remain constant until at least 1924 are highlighted because they  were first used to channel these two early immigrant streams from Germany  and Ireland.<br />This is a  thoroughly-researched and well-written book.  Historians of the American colonial experience, students of immigration,  and family historians may all profit from reading this.	2000-09-03
US	53063647	R16P554GG5ZKIV	0806316179	641020825	Tracing Your Irish Ancestors 2nd edition	Books	5	72	75	N	N	The modern &quot;bible&quot; for Irish research.	This handy paperback is the first place to start for Irish research.   <br />Irish ancestors can be very elusive due to a variety of factors.  Don't  get frustrated - get educated.  You CAN hunt your Emerald Isle ancestors  successfully when armed with the knowledge in this book.<br />While covering  all of the standard civil, church, census, and land records, Grenham's book  also covers wills, deeds, newspapers, directories, and other less-used  records.  The final third of the book is a county-by-county reference guide  describing extant censuses and substitutes, available local histories,  monumental inscriptions and other sources for each county.<br />One of the  outstanding features of the book is the Catholic parish maps for each  county.  These were drawn by the author's father and give the date of the  earliest records available for each parish.<br />A researcher with Irish  heritage must be as indefatigable and adaptable as their own Irish  forebears were in order find them in the existing records.  This book is  one of the tools you need to start with.	2000-08-22
US	53063647	R1JUFTEG9W4Q1N	0806314478	442465606	In Search of Your German Roots A Complete Guide to Tracing Your Ancestors in	Books	2	35	37	N	Y	A beginner's guide	The sub-title of &quot;A complete guide to tracing your ancestors in the  Germanic areas of Europe&quot; is rather misleading.  It is not  &quot;complete&quot; by any stretch of the imagination.<br />This is a very  brief introduction (103 pages of text) to a very large topic.  Some aspects  of German research are treated in only the most cursory manner - the  Lutheran church covered in a chapter of a single page while the Germans in  Canada are dealt with in only 3 pages.<br />The section on German record types  leaves the reader wishing for more information.  Which is the feeling the  entire book gives &quot;I wish there was more here&quot;.<br />While this book  has been updated to reflect the reunification of Germany, this is not Angus  Baxter's best book.  His &quot;In Search of Your British &amp; Irish  Roots&quot; and &quot;In Search of Your Canadian Roots&quot; are much more  comprehensive in their scope.  Because this book compares poorly with his  other works, I have given it only two stars.	2000-08-22
US	53063647	R2IBAM7AVRVYYR	080631611X	251276809	In Search of Your British & Irish Roots A Complete Guide to Tracing Your	Books	4	13	13	N	N	A fine way to begin your British &amp; Irish research!	This was one of the very first books I obtained to learn about UK &amp;  Irish research.  It's full of the basics of UK research and also describes  the unique and peculiar aspects of regional research in the British  Isles.<br />This is a solid starting point for hunting your ancestors from the  UK and Ireland.  It helpfully provides information about county-level  records for all English &amp; Welsh counties.<br />It remains close at hand on  my bookshelf as a well-thumbed reference guide.	2000-08-22
US	53063647	RANA2EMD6P353	1861262825	807149752	Researching British Military Medals: A Practical Guide	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A solid guide to research	Books on medal collecting tend to focus on the medals themselves - the criteria for their award, numbers issued, and the physical characteristics of the medal itself.<br />This book is entirely different.  Its focus is on  the records behind the medals.  It was a tradition in the British military  to  inscribe medals awarded to soldiers with their name, regiment, and  often service numbers.  This means that these baubles of cloth and metal  are not mere keepsakes, but actual links to an individual's past.<br />Medal  collectors, military historians, and genealogists will all find this a very  practical guide explaining how to flesh out the story behind the medal by  consultation with the available records.  Most of the records discussed are  held at the Public Record Office but the author also discusses sources  including those found with the medal (cases, telegrams, etc.) newspapers,  and other libraries, museums and archives.<br />The volume is profusely  illustrated in black and white with period photos, close-ups of medals, and  examples of the records involved.  It is a very good step-by-step guide for  learning the history of a serviceman based on their medals.	2000-07-28
US	53063647	R23XN8LJQ45FE1	1853266981	608201472	DEATH OF AN ARMY (Wordsworth Military Library)	Books	4	26	26	N	Y	Why Ypres?	What were the events that caused that famous part of the Western Front to form around the little Belgian town of Ypres during World War One?<br />This small volume provides the answers and it is a gem to read.  It follows the  British Expeditionary Force of the Great War during the months of October  and November, 1914 - the battle known as First Ypres to the British.<br />This  was a critical (and ultimately fatal) time for the BEF.  The  war was still  one of movement and this period saw both the Allies and the Germans  attempting to flank each other while closing the lines of battle towards  the coast.<br />The book goes a long way towards explaining the  &quot;why&quot; behind the eventually static positions of the trench  warfare in Flanders.  It's interesting to read about topographical features  such as chateaus and woods which still stood in their original form when  the opposing armies first arrived and came into contact.  The remains of  these same features would become famous as points of reference on the  barren hell-scape of the trenches in just a few months time.<br />The book  does assume that the reader has knowledge about the course of the war up to  October of 1914.  The retreat from Mons, the Marne, and the BEF's position  on the Aisne are touched on only in a cursory manner.  For the prelimiaries  to First Ypres, see Barbara Tuchman's general introduction &quot;The Guns  of August&quot; or more specifically Richard Holmes' &quot;Riding the  Retreat: Mons to the Marne 1914 Revisited&quot;.<br />Written in the mid-1960s  by a British author, the book is not overly jingoistic.  It does a fair and  scholarly job of viewing the action from the German point-of-view.  The  author's criticisms of the BEF's leadership is present yet  understated.<br />Perhaps the author's only (understandable) fault is his  lionization of 'Tommy Atkins' - the British common soldier.  That they were  a completely professional army with more than their share of courage isunquestionable but the author tends to focus on the saints rather than the  sinners in the Old Contemptibles' abilities to withstand superior numbers  (often at 7-to-1), disaster, confusion, and poor leadership.<br />My great  great uncle soldiered with the 3rd Cavalry division of the BEF and was  wounded in October, 1914.  This book gave me a clear idea what he had been  up against.  The BEF was bled dry at First Ypres and ceased to exist as a  fighting force due to their exertions.  They had bought time for Lord  Kitchner to train and equip his &quot;citizen-army&quot; to fight in 1915,  but Britain had forever lost its small professional army.	2000-07-27
US	53063647	R18J0UWUFKNF5X	0385496931	302329004	The Life of Thomas More	Books	5	30	45	N	N	A man out of season	If you were raised on &quot;A Man for All Seasons&quot; like I was, this book will be a real eye-opener.  Far from the counter-cultural icon of a Renaissance Thoreau, this volume puts Sir Thomas firmly in the context of  the Establishment of his time.<br />I couldn't put the book down for the  fascinating insights it gave into the social hierarchy in which More moved.  A child of privilege, his position in the newly-risen and literate middle  class of London was one of relationships and obligations.<br />His attraction  to what became the Humanist movement is presented as an intellectual  dalliance at odds with his basic system of beliefs.  He enjoyed the  intellectual freedom it afforded but his spiritual and emotional constants  remained unaffected.<br />In the end, it was his upholding of tradition which  condemned him in an era of change.  His martyrdom was one of dying to  maintain the Middle Ages against the coming modern world rather than of  individual conscience.<br />An excellent read that you will be hard pressed to  put down.	2000-07-24
US	53063647	R19MLYBW8WIOMZ	0719040485	107357139	The Surname Detective: Investigating surname distribution in England since 1086	Books	1	12	13	N	N	Great topic - bad book.	It's a very cold day in Hades indeed when I give a negative review to genealogy book - particularly one on English genealogy.  However, this book was simply terrible.<br />The premise - that interesting insights into surname  distributions and migration patterns in England may be determined by  reviewing and then comparing different sorts of record types which include  surnames - is a fascinating one.<br />Unfortunately, the author approaches the  subject in a chatty, &quot;let's ask the questions and find the answers  together&quot; fashion which is almost completely unreadable.  This  &quot;shared voyage of discovery&quot; methodology makes reading this book  a bore.  I say this having read several hundred genealogy books, so it's  not the subject matter I refer to as boring - it's the writing  style.<br />Another problem with the book is that it is written in  &quot;British English&quot; complete with colloqialisms and inside-jokes  which were off-putting even to an unreformed Anglophile such as  myself.<br />Besides stylistic issues, this volume does not examine the source  materials used for its study with anything approaching enough criticality.   Using telephone directory discs for modern surname distributions is a great  idea except for all the ex-directory people, the multiple telephones per  household slowly becoming more common, and the inherent errors in any phone  book.<br />For the next historic period of surname distribution, the author's  review of the Victorian censuses reads like a schoolboy's essay.  The  problems of thorough coverage regarding the censuses are legion yet they  are brushed aside by the author.<br />This book is a tough read and its  premise is not particularly well argued.  If you're an English surnames  junkie, you'll want to give it a go (tidbits like Fuller, Tucker, and  Walker all being regional variations of the same occupation are nice little  gems) but as a general genealogy work for hunting English ancestors, this  book isto be avoided.	2000-07-21
US	53063647	R9KLUNP05IEMN	187316243X	289953165	Making Use of the Census (Public Record Office Readers Guide)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Nice little introduction to the Victorian censuses.	This introductory book is primary focused on the use of the census microfilm available for England and Wales at the Public Records Office in the United Kingdom.<br />However, the information provide is of great use to  the researcher with English or Welsh ancestry for understanding how the  censuses were taken, how they are currently organized, and how best to  access them.<br />The section on &quot;Finding Your Place on the Film&quot;  describes the PRO's microfilm numbering system which is useful even when  you use the films at the LDS Family History Centers since they are copies  of the PRO films.  Understanding the PRO reference numbers makes research a  great deal easier.<br />The section on &quot;Understanding the Returns&quot;  contains many wonderful gems from the original enumerators' notes.  Be  prepared to laugh at their inventiveness in describing some occupations and  the reasons why they were unable to  count everyone in their area. Humorous  and insightful examples are used to illustrate the book throughout.<br />One  set of illustrations which I found particularly helpful were the sample  street maps showing how an enumerator might &quot;walk&quot; the street -  thus explaining the order in which households were recorded in the census  returns.  <br />The appendixes include a complete list of registration  districts and their numbers for each census and various street index  finding aids (invaluable for hunting ancestors in the larger cities).	2000-07-21
US	53063647	R35134YLZXLBIP	0892362170	632800059	Understanding Illuminated Manuscripts: A Guide to Technical Terms (Looking At)	Books	5	59	59	N	Y	A great little dictionary of illumination.	This little volume provides brief definitions of all the important phrases and terms used in the study of illuminated manuscripts including forms, techniques, themes, and periods.<br />Great for understanding the  differences between an historiated initial and an inhabited initial - or  between an antiphonal and a gradual.<br />Most of the representative images  are in color and are well chosen to illustrate the definitions.  Perhaps  their only drawback is their small size due to the size limitations of the  book itself.<br />A great companion while reading to &quot;Medieval  Illuminators &amp; their Methods of Work&quot; by Jonathan J.G. ALexander  or &quot;A History of Illuminated Manuscripts&quot; by Christopher De  Hamel.	2000-07-14
US	53063647	R2MJE7Z3Q8BRQJ	0750910844	967298637	Criminal Ancestors: A Guide to Historical Criminal Records in England and Wales (History Handbooks)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Naughty ancestors left nice records!	David Hawkings is a Fellow of the Society of Genealogists in the United Kingdom.  He is well known for finding otherwise &quot;undiscovered&quot; sources for family history in the archives of the UK.  He brings his  considerable expertise full force to this topic.<br />From very early on, the  criminal justice system in England and Wales maintained some outstanding  records of its workings.  For a genealogist, criminal records of various  kinds may be the only way possible to &quot;flesh-out&quot; a  difficult-to-research ancestor.  It's not just criminals who appear in  these records, of course.  The victims, plantiffs, and witnesses are also  mentioned, give statements, etc.<br />Hawkings guides the reader through a  multitude of record types and enhances his explanations with illustrations  and liberal use of transcribed records given as examples.<br />The various  courts in the land and their records are discussed along with  transportation records to both America and Australia.  Prison and police  records are also covered.  The book ends with a very illuminating case  study.<br />This is a thick book with relatively small print (get your  magnifying glass out) thus it is packed with information &amp; examples.  Very good value for the money.<br />A great resource for anyone tracing  ancestors in England and Wales.	2000-07-05
US	53063647	R3C0QXNH6L2ZTB	051770966X	772911149	Me And My Family Tree	Books	2	22	25	N	N	Basic - perhaps too basic.	This kids book does an adequate job of introducing the relationships in a traditional nuclear family.  It includes grandparents, uncles, aunts, and cousins but stops there.  It doesn't extend beyond one generation of  ancestors nor does it deal with non-traditional families.<br />It does provide  an example of a nice family tree project that a child can  create.<br />&quot;Who's Who In My Family?&quot; by Loreen Leedy gives a child  a more well-rounded introduction to the relationships in a family tree.	2000-06-30
US	53063647	R2J2CLMQ2XT6AR	0823414787	669369110	Who's Who in My Family?	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Great for kids learning about cousins!	Using families of cats and rabbits and racoons along with simple diagrams, this book for youngsters introduces the concept of relationships on a family tree.<br />Great grandparents, second cousins and non-traditional  families such as step-fathers and half-sisters are covered showing the many  types of families a child might encounter.<br />A great introduction for kids  learning about family relationships.  It even tackles the &quot;once  removed&quot; cousins with easy-to-understand diagrams.	2000-06-30
US	53063647	R2FYWHL8E0VKYP	0714834521	842692975	A History of Illuminated Manuscripts	Books	5	21	28	N	Y	Sumptuous	A beautiful book, lavishly illustrated to explain and enhance the text.  Many of the images are from private collections thanks to the author's work at Sotheby's.<br />The text is very accessible for the non-expert.  The  reader's understanding and appreciation of the art and craftsmanship which  went into illuminated manuscripts will be greatly increased.<br />Worth every  penny.	2000-06-29
US	53063647	R1PLKA8FLHIS8P	041505737X	197102687	A Dictionary of English Surnames	Books	5	21	23	N	Y	The standard work on the subject	The introduction alone outstanding through its clear explanations of the four main groups of surnames:  local surnames; surnames of relationships; occupational surnames; and nicknames.  Brief pages about regional surname  patterns are also enlightening.<br />The meat of the book is the alphabetical  listing of some 16,000 English surnames, their variations,  probable  origins, and notes on early occurrences in the written records.<br />The  cross-referencing between variant spellings is excellent and makes for easy  navigation between variants.<br />A first rate resource for English genealogy  and local history.	2000-06-09
US	53063647	R17JLINEULG13G	0198600925	197102687	A Dictionary of English Surnames	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	The standard work on the subject	The introduction alone is worth the price of the book through its clear explanations of the four main groups of surnames:  local surnames; surnames of relationships; occupational surnames; and nicknames.  Brief pages about  regional surname patterns are also enlightening.<br />The meat of the book is  the alphabetical listing of some 16,000 English surnames, their variations,   probable origins, and notes on early occurrences in the written  records.<br />The cross-referencing between variant spellings is excellent and  makes for easy navigation between variants.<br />A first rate resource for  English genealogy and local history.	2000-06-09
US	53063647	R3957P7SXBA9SL	1558705368	669233662	A Genealogist's Guide to Discovering Your English Ancestors: How to Find and Record Your Unique Heritage	Books	5	25	25	N	N	A great beginner's guide	Using plain language, the knowledgable authors of &quot;A Genealogist's Guide to Discovering Your English Ancestors&quot; take you through the the first steps of researching your English ancestors.<br />The reader is  introduced to the basic foundations of English records and is carefully  walked through what the records can provide, how to use them, and  very  importantly where to find them.<br />This beginner's guide is ideal for those  first-time researchers who are not located in the United Kingdom.   Long-distance resources including Family History Centers and the Internet  are covered in great detail.<br />Paul Milner &amp; Linda Jonas are veterans  of English research and they share their expertise in easy-to-follow real  examples from their own research.	2000-06-06
US	53063647	RT8SOUCJ7CR1P	0520079418	773222665	Pause and Effect: Punctuation in the West	Books	4	8	9	N	Y	Where did our punctuation marks come from?	The ancient Greeks and Romans wrote without punctuation to interrupt their texts.  That was left to the reader to interpret the places to pause, stop, or otherwise divide the text.<br />As Latin grew to be a second language in  the Middle Ages, scribes began to give their readers more assistance in  interpretation - thus our Western punctuation became varied and  prolific.<br />The invention of the printing press standardized and froze our  choice of punctuation.<br />The author does an amazing job of showing by  example how the needs of the both the readers &amp; writers of each period  developed into the selection of marks which we use today.<br />The  illustrations of manuscripts being in the back of the book rather than  interspersed in the text makes for some shuffling, but the illustrations  also carry their own clear descriptions of the particular punctuation  practice which they illuminate.<br />English translations of most of the Latin  text used as examples are thoughtfully provided.<br />I wish we still had use  of the rhetorical question mark to indicate a question not requiring an  answer!	2000-05-19
US	53063647	R38I33TH3QXBM4	0521398193	96711231	The World of Bede	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	A very enjoyable read about the remarkable Dark Age scholar.	This reprint of the 1970 classic provides a very accessible introduction into the intellectual background and writings of the venerable Bede.  It  is based on the written history of Bede and his times and mentions but does not rely on archealogical evidence to support its description of this early  flowering of enlightenment in a dark time.<br />The text has held up well in  the past 30 years and it provides great insight into the history of the  English as Bede knew it, Bede's intellectual environment in which he wrote  his works on various topics, and, of course, on the history of the church  in England.<br />It reads as a tour guide book to the physical and mental  territory in which Bede lived and wrote.  Not too hagiographic - but it  does assume at least a passing familiarity with Bede's more famous works.	2000-05-04
US	53063647	R1479G5RYO312S	0929626109	313222732	Nicknames: Past & Present	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent resource for translating nicknames	This handy booklet provides the translation of the most commonly found American nicknames for both males and females into their full given name equivalents.  Often, a nickname can stand for more than one first name and many variants are covered.<br />Included in the appendicies are English to  Dutch/Frisian nickname translations, names commonly found truncated or  superscripted, and names which can be either male or female.<br />An excellent  reference from one of the giants in genealogy.	2000-05-04
US	53063647	R93C3AQAIFCU6	9296260809	777340013	Nicknames: Past and Present	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Excellent resource for translating nicknames.	This handy booklet provides the translation of the most commonly found American nicknames for both males and females into their full given name equivalents.  Often, a nickname can stand for more than one first name and many variants are covered.<br />Included in the appendicies are English to  Dutch/Frisian nickname translations, names commonly found truncated or  superscripted, and names which can be either male or female.<br />An excellent  reference from one of the giants in genealogy.	2000-05-04
US	53063647	R33H41L4RWSGF3	0271017805	782216376	An Age of Tyrants: Britain and the Britons, A.D. 400–600 (Humanities; 1004)	Books	5	30	32	N	Y	Considers the written and archealogical records together.	A very even-handed account of Sub-Roman Britain.  Beginning with a review of the contemporary written sources, the author provides a new and insightful method of studying this Dark Age society through their use of  common and important words such as &quot;civitas&quot; and  &quot;tyranni&quot;.<br />After getting the most from the few written works  available from both inside and outside Britain, the second half of the book  considers the archealogical record of period.  This part alone is an  excellent overview of the latest knowledge which the archealogist's trowel  has been able to bring to bear on the period.  Orgainized in categories  such as cities and religious sites, the  book considers Sub-Roman patterns  of site usage throughout the country rather than focusing on a site-by-site  survey. <br />Very accessible reading which leaves you wishing for more.	2000-04-17
US	53063647	R21N0UR2BRAAAR	0806316195	314100606	Second Stages in Researching Welsh Ancestry	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Required reading for Welsh ancestral research	An outstanding book which takes up with more advanced ideas and techniques where their previous &quot;Welsh Family History : A Guide to Research&quot; left off. The book's chapters are on various subjects and have been  contributed by the instructors of University of Wales, Aberystwyth courses  on family history research in Wales. Topics such as religion,  industrialization, and surnames are all dealt with from a genealogical  research point-of-view. This is one of those books which you stay up late  reading and mark up heavily with Post It notes for later reference. I've  long been a fan of the Rowlands and their work such as their book &quot;The  Surnames of Wales&quot;.	2000-03-23
US	53063647	R3IUTXEUW6Q1K3	0806314397	79622854	Welsh Family History: A Guide to Research	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The best introduction to researching Welsh ancestors.	It this little volume, you have all the basic elements which makes Welsh research unique.  Language, Non-Conformity, and patronymic surname origins are just a few of the key issues described  with research advice and  examples given.<br />This book is the best way to learn about the challenges  of Welsh genealogy.	2000-03-23
US	53063647	R2HS9KYUD7WBM6	0140143955	903499644	The Anglo-Saxons	Books	5	48	49	N	Y	A great introduction	This well-illustrated volume provides an excellent introduction to the Anglo-Saxon period.  The &quot;picture essays&quot; regarding coinage and other specialized topics help provide detail without interrupting what  amounts to historic narrative.<br />The problems of using source documents are  detailed as well as the triumphs of modern archealogy in expanding our  understanding of this period of history.<br />The photographs, drawings, and  maps compliment and support the text nicely.<br />Highly recommended as an  introduction to the period and its people.	2000-03-23
US	53063647	R39IV85Q5GTZHS	0806315164	558200549	The Surnames of Wales for Family Historians and Others	Books	5	17	18	N	N	A &quot;must-have&quot; for genealogy research in Wales.	This is an OUTSTANDING resource for anyone doing Welsh research! It provides excellent background information on surname derivation, frequency, and geographic dispersal. Be sure to utilize their family origins  prediction service described in the book which uses surname frequency to  narrow your search.  Required reading for researching in Wales.	2000-03-23
US	53063647	R11M45AV89OFON	0679887768	389386159	Father Christmas	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	England's Santa makes his annual deliveries	This book shows England's Father Christmas in his annual work on Christmas eve. Father Christmas comes to life in this book as a very  human gift giver. This wonderfully illustrated book shows how he lives and the problems he faces each year when making his rounds. A  magically Christmas story which has been a family tradition in our house  since it was first published.	2000-03-23
US	53063647	R1XB2X5QSQ2250	0198288212	44897008	The Life of Adam Smith	Books	4	10	11	N	Y	Solid account of his life's impact on Smith's writing.	Easy to read in spite of the larger-than-life reputation of Adam Smith.  Presents Adam Smith the man as a bit of an absent minder professor who talked to himself.<br />However, the book shines in connecting Smith's life  experiences to their effect on his thinking and writing.  Extensive use is  made of Smith's correspondence to flesh out ideas presented in his  published works.  The author is clearly more comfortable with the pedigree  of thought behind &quot;The Theory of Moral Sentiment&quot; rather than  &quot;The Wealth of Nations&quot;, but Smith's ecomonics are still given  thorough treatment.  The disconnect between Smith's free trade theories and  his work as a Commissioner of Customs is explored to the full.<br />A quick  read and a delightful look into the Scottish Enlightenment.	2000-01-18
US	53063647	R3IYO5YQFTPQ17	0961926058	376544738	In Search of the Forlorn Hope : A Comprehensive Guide to Locating British Regiments and Their Records (1640 to WWI), Two Volume Set	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Basic reference for British army ancestor hunting.	The clever title provides a clue to the purpose of these volumes.  Often, trying to trace a British army ancestor's movements through time and geography can be a &quot;Forlorn Hope&quot; - much as the original  &quot;Forlorn Hope&quot; of near-suicidal storming parties in the British  army were given little chance of success.<br />The first volume is prefaced  with information on the history of the British army, a discussion of  records of genealogical value, solving the first hurdle of determining a  man's regiment, and case studies in tracing British army ancestors.<br />The  bulk of the volumes is concerned with giving locations for each regiment in  all time periods covered.  Knowing where the regiments were and when is key  to following a soldier's career.  Indispensible for the genealogists with  British army ancestry.  Very useful as well to the local historian and  military history buff.	1999-11-08
US	53063647	R5CYK6EZZK2ST	0192880454	189173133	The Stations of the Sun: A History of the Ritual Year in Britain	Books	5	39	44	N	N	Good overview of the holiday year in Britain.	A very scholarly work on the origins and customs surrounding the holidays in Britain.  This book has been a bit of a &quot;tough read&quot; for me as  I worked through the dry parts of interest to folklorists between the parts  of interest to genealogists. As an American, I had to have Guy Fawkes Night  explained to me. As a genealogist working with UK sources, it's nice to  understand what Rogationtide and Candlemas are, for instance.<br />In general,  the book attempts to overturn the classical folklorist mistakes in the  sources and symbolism of holidays dating back to Sir James Frazer's Golden  Bough. Not every custom and tradition is a direct descendant of Celtic  religious rites. Humanity has been very adaptable to inventing new  &quot;old traditions&quot; as the need arises and our earlier ancestors  where just as good at fulfilling these needs as were the Victorians who  invented our concept of an &quot;old fashioned Christmas&quot;.	1999-10-30
US	53063647	R3PEBT0237PF5K	0938289586	726144726	Ironclads At War: The Origin And Development Of The Armored Battleship	Books	5	9	12	N	N	This is a great general history of the ironclad period.	It is particulary good in its coverage of those ironclads in the service of other nations beyond the Royal Navy and the United States Navy. Contains  well-done sections on the Seven Weeks War at sea, the wars of the South  American Pacific coast including the Huscar, and the Japanese Civil War.	1999-10-30
US	53063647	RUOCUI0NXN45U	0943231620	823149857	Ironclads and Paddlers	Books	5	10	16	N	N	An absolutely gorgeous work of art.	This book contains original paintings by Ian Marshall which include the Warrior, the Monitor, the Olympia, the Maine and various other amazing  renditions of Pre-Dreadnought ships.	1999-10-30
US	53063647	R3U4WNEC44TXQB	0916489280	209473433	Pitfalls in Genealogical Research	Books	5	35	36	N	N	Very enjoyable book by one of the &quot;giants&quot; of genealogy.	Its short little chapters take on common errors in genealogical research. Focusing mostly on American research, it does provide a few examples from  Britain and Germany. Problems like when is a nephew not a nephew, how can  an infant be baptized before it is born, and the problems of fraudulent  pedigrees are all addressed.<br />What I like the most about this fun read is  the way in which it hammers on the common error of &quot;the sanctity of  the printed word&quot;. Taking what is printed in book form as truth has  been a typical problem in genealogical research for decades. Funny how  things never change much. Rubincam's admonitions about not believing what  you find in books sound just like today's pundits' warnings about not  believing everything you find on the Internet. Very true.	1999-10-30
US	53063647	RTXDK3PYNQUAB	0936738243	836869304	Battleship Oregon: Bulldog of the Navy : Documentary	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Good book on the &quot;Bulldog&quot;.	This is an excellent little paperback book about the U.S.S.Oregon in both war &amp; peace. It gives a narrative of the Oregon's entire history and is  profusely illustrated with photos and drawings.	1999-10-30
US	53063647	R2KOTE36EI9E08	0804731616	750084267	The Frozen Echo: Greenland and the Exploration of North America, ca. A.D. 1000-1500	Books	5	23	25	N	N	A great &quot;whodunit&quot; regarding the lost Greenland colonies.	Was it the Thule Eskimos attacking the Norse Greenland colonies which  cause these groups of hardy descendants of Vikings to fall off the map of  the North Atlantic after 1408?  Was it changes in climate that caused them  to move?  Where then did they go?  Was it the fishing vessels of unfriendly  foreign powers or neglect from the homeland which cause these settlements  to fail?  This well-written scholarly work is difficult to put down as it  traces the Greenland colonies from their establishment through their  explorations of North America until their existance was  &quot;forgotten&quot; by the Western World.  Drawing on the latest works in  archeology, medieval studies, and related scientific fields, this book  provides illuminating insight into a unique culture on the edge of the  known world and its final destiny.	1998-09-05
US	53063647	R3JT3TRHMD08IF	0750914181	726144178	Ancestral trails: the complete guide to British genealogy and family history	Books	5	32	32	N	N	An outstanding reference book for British genealogy.	The field of genealogical research in Great Britain is littered with literature.  This scepter'd isle has a long history of excellently preserved source records, an enthusiastic community of genealogists, and a wealth of authors willing to guide the enthusiasts through the records.   Given this background, it is difficult to imagine that a new work on British genealogical research could quickly become a new \\"standard reference\\".  Mark Herber has made his Ancestral Trails just such a standard.  Ancestral Trails, written in association with the Society of Genealogists in the United Kingdom, is 688 pages of top quality writing, organization, and completeness of coverage.  It takes a textbook approach to the subject of genealogical records, leading the reader from the more basic sources such as civil registration and parish records on to the more specialized such as military and educational records.  Far from being dry in style, the author uses well chosen examples from his own years of researching his ancestors to explain how the record types in question can be used by the family historian.  Some authors who use examples from their own research can detract from their work by doing so.  In contrast, Mark Herber has made his personal examples of real research situations enhance the text because of their relevancy to his topics.  Nearly one hundred examples of significant records are included as illustrations.  Researchers experienced in using British records as well as beginners will find this encyclopedic guide useful.  The author covers newly-available resources such as the 1881 Census Index and provides excellent research advice and several clever shortcuts to using this new finding aid.  Those researchers with Essex ancestors will be doubly blessed by this book as many of Mark Herber's examples are from research in that county.  The extensive bibliography really sets this book apart as a new standard reference.  Almost one thousand bibliographic references are conveniently referenced from within the book's 30 chapters.  Researchers familiar with  particular record types will be pleasantly surprised to find Ancestral Trails referring to an exhaustive list of other works on the topic.  The author's writing style lucidly describes the important considerations when working with a record type and seamlessly refers the reader to the more specialized works of other authors for greater detail.  Ancestral Trails is a thick and thorough tome and an excellent addition to the research knowledge of anyone with British ancestry.	1998-03-03
US	53063647	R27YH2XLDWL47W	0874749115	879983551	Japan's World War II Balloon Bomb Attacks on North America	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Comphrensive operational history of the Fu Go weapons.	Excellent technical explanations of the balloon weapons and how they were used against the North American continent.  From production in Japan to the US defensive response to the threat, everything you'd ever want to know about these early intercontinental ballistic weapons is in this book.  Heavily illustrated with maps, diagrams, and photography including aerial photography of the balloons in flight.  Excellent.	1997-11-27
US	53063647	RV5G3WGZFY0SH	1861760221	924617931	Warrior to Dreadnought: Warship Development, 1860-1905	Books	3	11	21	N	N	Focuses on detailed naval architecture of the Royal Navy.	Very detailed descriptions of the naval architecture of the Royal Navy from the introduction of the ironclad through to the Dreadnought.  The details will be of interest to architects and constructors rather than the general reader.  The text assumes a naval architect's background and vocabulary on the part of the reader. Mostly deals with capital ships in the Royal Navy.  Not enough detail on either the personalities of individuals behind the ships,  ship engagements during the period, or developments in the ships of the Royal Navy's competitor nations.  Interesting diagrams and photographs.	1997-10-20
US	53063647	R2PFHBOJYDM7LL	0850524377	859876617	A History of the British Cavalry 1816-1919, Volume 7: The Curragh Incident and the Western Front, 1914	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Covers the period of  the Curragh Incident to First Ypres.	The definitive modern history of the British Cavalry from the Curragh &quot;mutiny&quot; through the early months of the Great War.  Covers in great detail the early war of movement from the retreat from Mons to First Ypres.  Chock full of first hand accounts from the cavalry men involved in the  events.  Well selected photographs and an informal style of writing make this volume very easy to read	1997-06-06
US	53063647	R12T8PNWNEKP1U	0785909788	953240753	Tintin in the Land of the Soviets (The Adventures of Tintin)	Books	1	7	26	N	N	Anti-Soviet propaganda from Tintin the boy reporter.	A childish condemnation of the early Soviet period by Herge. This first full-length Tintin story is interesting from a  historical perspective.  In black &amp; white illustrations.	1996-12-15
US	53063647	R18DGPE4EBW0VC	0140501258	389386159	Father Christmas (Picture Puffin)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	England's Santa makes his yearly deliveries.	This book shows England's Father Christmas in his annual work<br />on Christmas eve.  Father Christmas comes to life in this<br />book as a very human gift giver.  This wonderfully<br /> illustrated book shows how he lives and the problems<br /> he faces each year when making his rounds.  A magically Christmas<br /> story which has been a family tradition in our house since it<br /> was first published.	1996-12-15
