US	53062989	R2Z53Q1BP9A45I	0786886757	841280964	Strip City: A Stripper's Farewell Journey Across America	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Fascinating Memoir, But No Definitive Answers	I am a feminist. In college, I minored in women's studies, and I ended up taking lots of classes with some very earnest, intelligent women about various \\"women's issues.\\" Inevitably in these classes, the sex industry would come up for discussion at some point or another -- stripping, pornography, prostitution, etc. I didn't know what I thought about the subject back then, and I still don't today. I'm deeply ambivalent about it. On the one hand, I agree with the argument that says that all sex industry workers are being exploited, degraded, and objectified; on the other hand, I agree with the argument that glorifies sex industry workers for taking charge of their sexuality, and asks what's wrong with being (or being seen as) a sexual being anyway? I have absolutely no personal experience with the sex industry, so all this discussion was purely theoretical. So when I saw this book, I knew I had to read it. Surely I would find some clarification, some resolution to this conundrum, in the memoirs of an ex-stripper? <br /> <br />As it turns out, not so much. Lily Burana herself is deeply ambivalent about stripping, about what it means to her, to her friends and family, and to society at large. That's why she decided to write this book in the first place -- to get some closure on a sticky subject. In the end, she finds personal peace of mind, but no absolute answer, no epiphany. The truth, I think, probably lies somewhere in the middle of those two opposing points of view -- as well as at both extremes. The two different arguments are both true, at the same time. It's enough to give you a headache! <br /> <br />The book itself was very good, I thought. I found it entertaining, informative, and intersting. The author has a gift for descriptive prose, for immersing the reader in a particular time and place so that you feel you're there, part of the action. I enjoyed the parts about the various strip clubs she worked at and the parts about her personal life and history equally. Ms. Burana is a gifted autobiographer, and she wrote the book so that her personal journey interwove itself with the nitty-gritty details of what it's like to live as a working stripper seamlessly, each half of a larger whole. <br /> <br />An excellent book! Very different from my normal reading fare, but worth the trip!	2005-03-08
US	53062989	RY5PV2H0WNZNP	155166903X	684641512	The Ties That Bind	Books	1	13	16	N	N	Not Krentz's Best Work	I really did not like this book at all -- which surprised me, because I usually love Jayne Ann Krentz's stuff. But this is one of her earliest books, and it shows. It lacks the deft, delicate touch of her other works; she clearly hadn't found her own distinctive voice yet when she wrote this.  <br /> <br />I didn't like either of the main characters -- he was too untrusting, controlling, and unpleasant, she was too ditzy and annoying -- and I didn't think their romance was at all believable. I couldn't understand why they were attracted to each other and why they stayed together. The mystery subplot was also entirely uninteresting -- I really just didn't care at all. <br /> <br />\\"The Ties That Bind\\" gets a thumbs-down on all points. It's not funny, it's not suspensful, and it's not romantic. If you want a book that is all three of those things, I recommend you try Krentz's \\"Trust Me\\" instead; it has many similiar themes -- the artistic woman paired with the emotionally-wounded businessman who has trust issues -- but is much, much better written.  And way more entertaining.	2004-12-03
US	53062989	R1TU9HCCYYID07	0671876465	588506568	Mirror Dance (Miles Vorkosigan Adventures)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Great character development!  Also uncomfortable. But great!	Another excellent installment in the Vorkosigan series! Bujold delivers, as always, an elegantly written, wonderfully characterized, intellectually and philosophically fascinating story that's lots of fun to read. I do have to admit, though -- when I re-read this series, I usually end up just skimming \\"Mirror Dance\\", or even skipping it entirely. Bujold does almost too good of a job to make this a comfortable book to read. <br /> <br />What do I mean? Well, \\"Mirror Dance\\" is written, not from Miles's point of view, but from Mark's -- and Mark is one screwed up human being. It's inevitable, given the fact that he was raised by an insane and abusive Komarran terrorist intent on using him as a pawn in an assassination attempt against his father. So Mark has some issues, to put it mildly. He works through (or begins the process of working through) a great many of them in this book, and it's a little uncomfortable-making seeing the world through the eyes of such a damaged character -- especially one we care so much about. There's one scene in particular that I just can't bring myself to reread, because it just makes me cringe so badly...but that's the mark of a good writer, that she is able to involve the reader's emotions on such a deep level. <br /> <br />The Miles storyline isn't much of a relief, either, given the fact that for much of the novel he is suffering from cryo-amnesia and is rather horribly unsure of himself -- an un-Miles-like trait if ever there was one. <br /> <br />This is not the novel to start the series with; try \\"Warrior's Apprentice\\" first. But any long-time fan of the series will enjoy this book, because of all the marvelous, if painful, character development. A very good job, Ms. Bujold!	2004-10-13
US	53062989	R1H2MGOZTRFBK3	0505524996	273190859	Contact	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A real page-turner!	\\"Contact\\" is one of the best paranormal romances I've ever read. Fresh, unique, with great world-building and fully-realized characters, this book was a joy to read! It's about an airplane that is hijacked by aliens -- a silly, unrealistic-sounding premise that somehow turned into a gripping, absorbing, completely realistic-feeling book. Not silly at all. In fact, it's a real page-turner. <br /> <br />Very good read. Recommended.	2004-10-11
US	53062989	R222JFQYTYWLOP	0425196550	303310362	Kinsman's Oath	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Susan Krinard has just won herself a new fan!	Wow! I am blown away! Excellent book! Susan Krinard has created a vivid and compelling futuristic world with fascinating and belivably complex societies. Each planet -- even the ones that belong to the same unifiying government -- has its own unique personality, flavor, and society. They all feel organic and real, as well as being original and unique. The alien culture of the Shaauri is fascinating too, as well as feeling convincingly alien.  Krinard does not fall prey to the same trap many science fiction writers find themselves in -- the Shaauri are original and new and truly alien; they aren't simply a human culture reworked with new names.  Really amazing world-building here. <br /> <br />The characters too were complex individuals, with a psychological complexity and depth that made them all a joy to read about. These were real, three-dimensional people, in all their contradictory human (or alien, as the case may be) glory. <br /> <br />The plot was also fabulous, a complicated blend of action, intrigue, and politics that kept me turning the pages furiously! Kinsman's Oath was complex, thought-provoking, and deep, dealing with issues of self-identity and the way one's sense of self is influenced by one's culture, one's memory, and one's family -- and the way all of these things can be manipulated when you live in a world peopled with telepaths. <br /> <br />All in all, this was a marvelous book! A great read! I'm going to look for Krinard's other novels; she has just gained a new fan!	2004-10-11
US	53062989	R3HCNJXZB7U9AO	0142001805	89209679	The Eyre Affair: A Thursday Next Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A delicious romp of a book!	I was completely charmed by this book. What a fun concept! The idea of a world where literature is the principle form of recreation and where people are as passionate about books and authors as they are about professional sports here (heck -- even more passionate) was irresistible in and of itself, but to then add time travel, alternate history, a plethora of literary in-jokes, and James Bond-ish spy-type antics on top of that...!  <br /> <br />Pure delightful fun!	2004-10-11
US	53062989	R2BQ3TAFPSIR7R	0743464915	774955485	Dress You Up in My Love	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Great read with wonderful character development!	I just finished this, and I really enjoyed it -- a lot more than I thought I would, even. It's more than just your typical chick lit book, despite the silly romantic comedy premise. (By the way, the silly romantic comedy premise was an awful lot of fun, and the reason I bought the book in the first place, so don't think I'm knocking it. I'm not.) Instead, we get a genuine, interesting novel about a set of characters who felt like real people. Even when the author was playing things up a little for comic effect, none of these characters felt like caricatures or cartoons -- they always came across as real people. The plot did get slightly ridiculous in places, but hey, what can you expect from a novel in which a woman hires an actor to play her fake boyfriend at family gatherings? It never got absurd, though. <br /> <br />And best of all, I felt like Samantha had really grown and changed thoughout the course of the novel. She had a newfound understanding of herself and her relationships with other people by the end of the book. The character development was very satisfying to watch. <br /> <br />I also loved the author's style -- deadpan and sarcastic without being cynical or mean. Very funny stuff; I was laughing out loud in places. <br /> <br />Good book! I'm going to be looking out for more by this author!	2004-08-22
US	53062989	R15LOP58QC50YR	0316776963	491689172	Me Talk Pretty One Day	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Good stuff!	Well, this was just great! Each one of these essays was fabulous -- funny, witty, wry, and quirky. Sedaris's perspective is unique, and he has a way of taking the most mundane events (going out to dinner with his father, say) and making them seem like epic stories full of meaning and insights into the plight of humanity, and yet taking the most seemingly romantic situations (like moving to Paris) and grounding them satisfyingly in the mundane.  <br />  <br /> Plus he's freakin' hilarious. <br />  <br /> I think my favorite essays were the ones in part two that dealt with his attempts to learn French. He turns culture clash into comedy gold! (&quot;'I hate you,' [the French teacher] said to me one afternoon. Her English was flawless. 'I really, really hate you.' Call me sensitive, but I couldn't help but take it personally.&quot;) Hee! How can you not love this guy?	2004-08-01
US	53062989	RH0HND6C0KVVK	0060008032	568824372	Angels	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Touching and Funny	I usually read genre fiction, like science fiction, fantasy, and romance. But even though I'm not normally one for mainstream, &quot;chick-lit&quot; novels, I found this one to be really quite good. The main character was interesting and complex, and I was moved by her journey of emotional healing. Also, the &quot;fish-out-of-water&quot; aspect of an Irish woman coping with life in L.A. was just downright hilarious! This book was moving and funny by turns, and sometimes simultaneously. Highly recommended.	2004-07-24
US	53062989	R1AE9NTHWYAJEC	0441009751	191756753	A Fistful of Sky (A LaZelle Family Novel)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	One of the best books I've read in ages.	&quot;A Fistful of Sky&quot; is wonderful on so many different levels. The first, most immediate, one is the &quot;good story&quot; level. This book is a great read, fun, compelling, magical, and dark by turns. The plot is just irresistable -- the magicless &quot;ugly duckling&quot; of a family of magicians suddenly develops the power of curses -- and the main character is very likable and personable. The various twists and turns of the plot will keep you engaged with the story, compulsivly turning pages. It's both a fun read and a good, thought-provoking read. <br />  <br /> Another level I can appreciate this book on is the &quot;good writing&quot; level. Hoffman writes beautiful, pellucid prose that is simultaneously simple, easy-to-read, and relatively transparent, and also gorgeous, poetical, and resonant with meaning. This is good stuff, here. <br />  <br /> And then there's Gypsum's coming-of-age story. Any woman out there who has ever struggled with a weight problem will be able to identify with Gypsum. There's a scene that takes place in Gypsum's adolescence where her mother casts a well-intentioned but horribly inappropriate spell on her to make her lose weight that will have all of us fat girl readers wincing in recognition and sympathetic pain. More than that, the idea of Gypsum, a full-figured woman, being afraid to use her own power just resonated strongly with me. <br />  <br /> Ultimately, this book is about coming to terms with yourself and accepting yourself, learning to love the dark parts of your soul as well as the light parts -- embracing yourself in all your good, bad, light, dark, and contradictory human glory. I know I, for one, really needed to read it. I'm very glad I did.	2004-07-24
US	53062989	R348OPTC1SMROP	0373802080	853679758	On Fire's Wings (Final Dance, Book 1)	Books	5	14	16	N	N	I couldn't put it down	This was an excellent novel! I devoured it in the span of one day, and I already can't wait for the sequel to come out! It's got a real winner of a concept -- the Dancers and the Lorekeepers are just fascinating to me -- and some really great worldbuilding. Too many fantasy novels use recycled, generic, vaguely European settings -- not Christie Golden! Arukan is a complex society with an original, fresh, vaguely Middle Eastern feel to it. This was not a world I've read about before; Arukan is someplace new. <br /> <br />Kevla is a wonderful character, a vivid, likeable human being. We watch her grow from a child to a woman, and we get completely involved in her life. We identify with her and want to see her succeed. All of this is perhaps why some of the psychological places that Golden takes this character (please excuse the vagueness, but I don't want to give anything away to people who haven't read the book for themselves yet) make us, the readers, so uneasy. Golden takes some real risks and isn't afraid of pushing the envelope. And, while it may have been uncomfortable to go there, it makes the book feel so much more real. Nothing is in here just for the shock value; it is all absolutely necessary to further the plot. The way Arkuan society was structured made the particular event I'm referring to (and once you've read the book, you'll know exactly what I mean) inevitable, but nonetheless shocking, horrible, and tragic -- but always, always, emotionally honest and real. All of the actions that Kevla and the other main characters take ring true. There's not one false note. <br /> <br />The bottom line: this book is fabulous, original, engrossing, and real. Buy it now!	2004-07-24
US	53062989	R308QYUPFKVSLW	0373802056	720489435	The Wizard's Ward (Luna)	Books	4	15	18	N	N	A Good Read	I enjoyed this book!  The setting was pretty standard romantic fantasy fare; there was nothing too surprising or unusual.  But I loved the characters, and I cared about their situation, and I always wanted to know what happened next!   <br /> <br />The plot was a fairly typical heroic quest, but it kept me entertained, with plenty of action, adventure, and romance.  I actually found Rath's emotional and spiritual journey to be just as interesting and compelling as the physical journey our two protagionists were taking. This book is a fun fantasy/romance/adventure novel, yes, but it is also ultimately a novel about faith -- the power of faith, living with faith, and finding faith -- not necessarily in God in the Christian sense (although strong parallels can be drawn between the Christian concept of God and the Giver of the novel), but in the idea that there is a benevolent spiritual force at work in the universe, and in the transformative power it can have in your life if you let it. Interesting.  <br /> <br />Also, it was just plain fun. Lots of derring-do and so on. A good read, on whatever level you want to look at it!	2004-07-24
US	53062989	R3GHGYVX56TJC0	038550926X	167500313	The Devil Wears Prada: A Novel	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Not Perfect, But a Fun Read	This was hilarious, the ultimate girl-gossip, &quot;aren't you glad your life doesn't suck as much as mine&quot; book. Andrea's job as the assistant to Miranda Priestly, editor of the glam fashion magazine Runway, is just familiar enough to anyone who has ever had a corporate/office-type job to be real, but extreme and over-the-top enough to keep the reader riveted to the page, in a &quot;oh my god, I can't believe anyone would ever &lt;i>act&lt;/i> this way&quot; haze. It's a haze made all the stronger by the fact that the character of Miranda Priestly is based on a real person, Anna Wintour of Vogue. Miranda's antics are so appallingly mesmerizing that you don't even dislike Andrea for being a wimp and putting up with it -- like Andrea, we can only go along for the ride in a sort of dazed amazement. But the moment at the end of the novel when Andrea finally tells Miranda off was deeply satisfying. <br />  <br /> The one thing that annoyed me -- and it annoyed me quite a bit -- was the unnecessary yet repeated bashing of the South and of Southerners. From the beginning, where Andrea makes fun of her Texan brother-in-law's accent, to the middle, where she mocks the Southerners Miranda invited to her brother's engagement party for being hicks, to the end, when she's packing to go to Paris and just can't help herself from making one last dig about &quot;cowgirl chic&quot; and how cowgirls are obviously not chic, even though this really has nothing to do with anything that's going on in the plot -- throughout the novel, this elitist, &quot;anybody who's not from New York City isn't worth knowing&quot; attitude pervades the book, and really undercuts Andrea's position as the sympathetic Everywoman we're supposed to be rooting for. <br />  <br /> Even so, this was a fun, poolside read, the perfect guilty pleasure for summertime! <br />	2004-07-22
US	53062989	R2B8FQ57PXW292	0778320561	115697729	Summer by the Sea	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A Sweet, Romantic Summer Read	Awww, this was sweet! It left me with a happy glow when I finished reading it. A lovely story of a innocent childhood friendship between Alex Montgomery, son of a wealthy couple who had a summer home at the beach, and Rosa Capoletti, daughter of the Montgomery's gardener -- a friendship that develops into something more as they grow older. They're seperated by circumstances, and then meet up again as adults, and carefully try to reconnect with each other.<br />This book is full of warm-hearted characters who I loved getting to know, as well as some scrumptious-sounding Italian recepies that I can't wait to try. All in all, it's the perfect summer read, sweet and satisfying.	2004-07-05
US	53062989	RPRQSSBUGLDLZ	0689868278	549642303	When Lightning Strikes (1-800-where-r-you)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fun for Adults Too!	If you're a grown-up thinking about reading these books, don't be put off by the fact that they're technically YA.  I'm 30 years old and I got a huge kick out of \\"When Lightning Strikes!\\"  I thoroughly enjoyed this book. Jess is a wonderful heroine, spunky, funny, and smart. The plot was a lot of fun, too -- a bit predictable in places, but the writing was so lively and energetic and just plain fun that I didn't care. Pure enjoyment! I can't wait to read the next one in the series!	2004-07-05
US	53062989	R9PE40ZEU7QP2	0767905180	310021894	Jemima J: A Novel About Ugly Ducklings and Swans	Books	4	2	6	N	N	Fun but Flawed	I had a great deal of fun reading this novel. A modern Cinderella story, _Jemima J_ is funny, snappy, and smart, as well as painfully true in places. A real page-turner, and a good read! Definately the perfect beach book!<br />Unfortunately, this does fall into the typical romantic novel trap of having the fat heroine have to lose weight before anyone can fall in love with her or before her life can turn around and she becomes happy -- but unlike many of the previous reviewers, I didn't find this insulting. Jemima's weight loss is not a magical happy pill; her life doesn't turn around as soon as she loses the weight, or even because of the weight loss! She has a lot of stuff to work through first -- the realization that she's just replaced one addiction (food) with another (exercise), the fact that anyone -- including herself -- who loves her based solely on her appearance is not the kind of person she wants to be involved with (or to be, period), and that beauty really is found on the inside of a person. It's only after Jemima works through all of that stuff that we get the happy ending. I would have loved to see a novel where we get a fat heroine AND a happy ending (instead of a *formerly* fat heroine and a happy ending), but I can see how it was impossible in this instance. Pre-weight loss Jemima would never have believed that being thin is not the answer to all of life's problems.	2004-06-30
US	53062989	R3KOR5SZMWH2PK	0553579703	271355342	Only Forward	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Unusual and Original	I debated about what rating to give this book because even now, a few years after I first read it, I'm still not sure whether I liked it or not. I can say this with absolute honesty -- it is one of the strangest books I have ever read. <br />I liked the first half. It started out seeming like a fun hard-boiled P.I.-type novel set in a zany science fictional alternate universe, filled with action and wacky hijinks. In this world, everthing is divided into different neighborhoods. There's Action Center, where everything is all about business and being productive; Color, where artists live and experiment with, you guessed it, color; Red Neighborhood, where you can get anything you want if you've got enough money; and so on. Everyone is divided into these little sub-sections of humanity and almost no one ventures outside of their little corner of it. All you know is your Neighborhood. I liked the concept of the Neighborhoods, and the author certainly seemed to have a lot of fun with it. But that's just the tip of the iceburg.<br />Every other novel I've ever read follows a pattern. A roadmap, if you will. Once you've read the first few chapters, once you know what kind of book you've got, you know in general where it will end up. You may not know all the twists and turns of the plot, but you're familiar with the general landscape. Not so with _Only Forward_. This book ended in a completely different place than it began. It began with wacky hijinks and wisecracking P.I.s, but it ended...somewhere else entirely. I don't what to be more specific than that, so I don't spoil it for unsuspecting readers out there. I'm still not sure if I'm glad I went there, but it was interesting, without a doubt. Original, unquestionably. Intense, with plenty of food for thought.<br />At the beginning of this review, I said I wasn't sure what to rate this book because I wasn't sure if I liked it. I'm still not sure. But I gave it a 4 because I didn't dislike it, and I still think about it and ponder the issues it raised to this day. _Only Forward_ is unusual. It stays with you. It's worth a read for that alone.	2004-06-30
US	53062989	R1AW3WF9H9G0GI	0886778581	174499108	Green Rider	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Good, Old-Fashioned Fantasy Adventure Story	I can't remember the last time I enjoyed a straight-forward fantasy novel so much! _Green Rider_ was well-written and a lot of fun. Plenty of derring-do and high adventure, plus political intrigue and some very charming characters (the Misses Bunchberry and Bayberry, anyone?). A just plain out good read. If you like fantasy at all, you'll like this book!	2004-06-30
US	53062989	R1NN6CV4J7BGHT	0553562967	96085944	Bellwether	Books	5	5	7	N	Y	Screwball Comedy	I love this book to death! It's marketed as science fiction -- mainly because Connie Willis is a science-fiction author -- but I don't think it really is. It's a novel about science and scientists. It's also a wacky, screwball romantic comedy. It's a great deal of fun! Lighthearted and funny, but it also deals with some deeper issues -- specifically, the nature of scientific discovery. It was a joy to read.	2004-06-30
US	53062989	R30JZG4D4AAJLF	0312303467	15622163	Bet Me	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	Unexpectedly Excellent	Okay -- wow, this was good!  I have never read Crusie before, so I was expecting just another semi-generic chick lit novel.  I've never been so glad to be disappointed!<br />I think this is the most perfect chick lit book I have ever read.  It was hilarious, for one -- the one-liners just kept coming the whole novel through.  And they were *good* one-liners, funny, smart, sexy, and witty.  The characters were fabulous -- well-drawn, quirky, likeable (the good guys), deliciously unlikeable (the bad guys), intelligent, and fully fleshed-out.  These were people I wanted to get to know and hang out with, the kind of people I could see myself being friends with.  And the plot was utterly absorbing.  Once I started, I couldn't put the book down.  Literally.  I stayed up until 9:00 in the morning finishing this thing; by the end, I was so tired I could barely keep my eyes open, but I kept on reading instead of doing the sensible thing and, y'know, sleeping, because I just *had* to know what happened next.  It's been a while since I've been that caught up in a book.  I'm going to have to check out Jennifer Crusie's other novels, because that was really a lot of fun!  <br />Oh!  I forgot to mention the best part!  The overweight heroine doesn't lose weight to win the heart of the hero!  Not only is she as fat for the happily-ever-after ending as she was for the beginning, but the hero kept feeding her all the way through the novel because he liked the look on her face when she ate something yummy.  I was starving when I finished _Bet Me_ -- people kept eating pasta, chicken marsala, and Krispy Kreme donuts!  I've been waiting a long time for a book that said you don't have to be thin to be happy, and actually *meant* it.  Thanks, Ms. Crusie!	2004-06-30
US	53062989	RPFTVWVGN5L8W	0609808249	728363656	KnitLit: Sweaters and Their Stories...and Other Writing About Knitting	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A Good Yarn for the Knitting Obsessed	I enjoyed this book -- but I think it's safe to say that you won't like it if you're not obsessed with knitting. This collection of essays about knitting was interesting, amusing, and heartstring-tugging by turns. A pleasant way to while away a few hours!	2004-06-30
US	53062989	RY8REQSDDQILV	0765342456	864267529	A College of Magics	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wonderful Book!	I adore this book! It's an excellent, really well-written fantasy novel about a young woman who goes off to college. It features witty dialogue, wonderfully drawn characters, political intrigue, and a clever plot. I was drawn in right away and I couldn't put it down until it was finished. Great story.<br />This book was set in an alternate universe -- some bits are clearly set in real places, like Paris, and other bits are set in imaginary places, like Galazon and Greenlaw. It's set in the late-nineteenth/early-twentieth century, and it feels authentically Edwardian. Stevermer's writing style convincingly mimics the literary style of that time period. In other words, don't jump into this book expecting fast-paced explosions of action. While there is plenty of action and adventure and daring escapades, the novel takes its time getting there. This is a subtle book. A slow book. A book to savor. <br />Also, don't be misled by the title into expecting Harry Potter-style antics. The magic taught at Greenlaw -- all the magic in this book, really -- is not showy. This magic is the stuff of metaphysics; it deals in intangibles.<br />All caveats aside, this book is absolutely wonderful. I love it to death, and I will undoubtedly re-read it many times in the future!	2004-06-30
US	53062989	RNWUVUXJ1H6JF	1892065878	475011999	The Tomorrow Log	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Excellent Space Opera	As with all of Lee and Miller's work, this is a wonderful, enthralling read, filled with fascinating characters and situations.  Deftly written, with rich, lyrical prose, this is a book to savor.  It's also a book to read in a great, gallumphing hurry, a book to speed through to find out what happens next!  This is how action and adventure should be done!  It also has lots of intriguing science-fictional ideas thrown in for good measure -- Gem's spiders, for instance, and the Blue House, where you go to get a new body after your old one dies.  What's not to love?<br />The only sour note -- the plot was left unresolved at the end of the book.  This is clearly the set-up to a new series, and it introduces the characters and concepts of this new universe very well.  Well enough that I wanted more!  &quot;The Tomorrow Log&quot; does resolve all the main plot issues raised at the beginning of the novel, but there are many loose threads that still need to be tied off.  This book doesn't end so much as stop.  If you're the sort who can't stand an unfinished story, you might want to wait until the sequel comes out to start this book.  However, if you don't mind being teased, then buy this book in a hurry!  What a fantastic, fun novel!	2003-04-29
US	53062989	R27CSYVHEIBW35	0553585177	571131857	Fires of the Faithful	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Not the average fantasy novel it looks like at first glance	I was in my local bookstore the other day, holding a coupon in my hot little hand, looking for something new to read, when I came across a copy of \\"Fires of the Faithful.\\"  It didn't look *too* exciting -- fairly standard fantasy material, I thought -- but I decided to buy it anyway because, hey, I had a coupon.  What a lucky purchase!  This novel is an utterly engaging, <BR>unputdownable read.  Although this plot has been done before (evil religious zealots oppressing the masses until Our Heroine overthrows them and saves the day) and the worldbuilding is fairly standard, the novel itself manages to be original and thought-provoking.  It's an interesting meditation on the nature of religion -- what it is, the purpose it serves, how it can be corrupted to serve political aims.  <br />[Side note: In most fantasy novels dealing with religion, the \\"bad\\" religion is pseudo-Christian and the \\"good\\" religion (if there is one) is pseudo-pagan.  In Fires of the Faithful, it's exactly the opposite.  At least one reviewer was turned off by that.  Please, keep an open mind.  It's not the religion itself that the author demonizes; it's its corruption into a political tool.  And bear in mind that the heroine is young and sheltered; everything is black and white to her at first.  The second books complicates the simplistic view of religion of the first book.]  <br />But, most of all, this book was just fun to read.  Music and magic combine with adventure and an understated romance to produce a fine and highly enjoyable fantasy.  Highly recommended!	2003-04-16
US	53062989	R2Q9CD3T7D9SCP	0451457730	898233857	Stardoc	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Putting the Science Back into Science Fiction	What an excellent book!  This novel combines a fast-moving, refreshingly<BR>original plot with strong, well-defined characters and fascinating<BR>science-fictional ideas to create a wonderful sci-fi adventure!  However,<BR>the aspect of the book I think I enjoyed the most was the <BR>xenobiology.  The author has a medical background, and she puts it to <BR>good use, creating fascinating aliens and grippingly realistic hospital <BR>scenes.  It always annoys me to no end whenever an author falls victim<BR>to what I call the &quot;pointy ear syndrome&quot; -- when the author's &quot;aliens&quot; <BR>aren't really aliens at all, but human beings with a few cosmetic differences<BR>(a la the different pointy-eared alien races on Star Trek.  &quot;Look!  That<BR>otherwise perfectly normal human being has pointy ears!  Obviously he must<BR>be an alien!&quot;  T.V. shows do it for practical reasons -- i.e., their <BR>budget, the fact that they're working with human actors, etc -- but books<BR>have no excuse except for the author's paucity of imagination).  Stardoc's<BR>aliens are actually *alien*!  Physically, her alien races are wonderfully<BR>weird, with a whole spectrum of different physiological characteristics --<BR> and it all makes logical, medical sense (at least as far as this medical<BR>ignoramus can tell).  Even more delightfully, the aliens are sociologically<BR>different too, with distinct, original cultures for each race.  <BR>This is universe-building par excellence!<br />On another level, this story was just plain fun -- romance, adventure, <BR>intrigue, and medical plagues.  There were two or three plot points that<BR>were slightly contrived, but they nevertheless moved the action of the<BR>overall story along, so that's a forgivable flaw.  And the secrets that<BR>are revealed at the end of the novel turn much of what we think we know<BR>on its head, and those plot points are revealed to be not so contrived<BR>after all.<br />All in all, this is a superb first installment in a series that I know I'm<BR>going to be reading as long as the author cares to write it!	2003-04-16
US	53062989	RZ4GA15ACTAHT	0515132896	37978648	Heart Mate (Celta's HeartMates, Book 1)	Books	3	8	14	N	N	Potential, But No Spark	I enjoyed this book; I found it a pleasant way to while away a few hours.  I liked it -- but I didn't love it, and I'm not entirely certain why.  It has all the elements I look for in a paranormal romance: magic, strong characters, a good combination of drama and humor, and so on.  But, after I finished it, I just shrugged and moved on.  It didn't move me or enthrall me.  It just lacked that certain something, the spark of interest, that makes the difference between good and great.  As far as I'm concerned, &quot;Heartmate&quot; was fairly middle-of-the-road.  It just didn't click with me.<br />However, that's an entirely subjective opinion, and I know there are bound to be many people who disagree.  So if you are at all interested in paranormal romance novels, you should definately give this book a try.  For what it's worth, I thought the universe the author created in this novel had the potential to provide really outstanding stories -- so I'm going to be on the lookout for her next book, whenever it comes out.  &quot;Heartmate&quot; wasn't bad by any means; it just didn't thrill me.	2003-04-15
US	53062989	R3H1EOMO61K3ZV	0812511751	328750600	The Elvenbane (Halfblood Chronicles, Bk. 1)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Compulsively Readable	Escapist fantasy at its best!  &quot;Elvenbane&quot; is a wonderful ride, well-written and absorbing.  You're swept up at once in the world of the story, and carried along relentlessly to its end.  This is a page-turner in the best sense -- you always want to know what happens next!<br />As others have said, the real fun of this book is the way it turns our expectations on their head.  It takes a fairly standard fantasy set-up -- a prophesy foretells that one of the despised and hunted half-bloods will become the savior of humankind -- and quickly subverts it.  Nothing is as it seems.  As soon as we think we're safe in a standard fantasy cliche (such as the wise and kindly dragons who take in the orphaned child, or the half-blooded wizards in their hidden fortress in the forest who will become the heart of the fight against the elves) -- boom!  It evolves (or perhaps I should say devolves) into something else entirely.  There are no pure and good-hearted heros in this book.  These characters are real people -- grumpy, bad-tempered, and petty, as well as kind-hearted and brave.  Even Shana, the main character, has a sharp temper and a tendacy towards self-centeredness (in my opinion, anyway).  These flaws make the characters more realistic; I cared about Shana and her foster-brother Keman, and I wanted them to win.<br />As for the reason why I gave this book four stars instead of five?  Norton and Lackey spend so much time establishing their world and characters, that by the time the action picks up, they've run out of room!  The ending felt greatly rushed to me.  It's true that the end brought no real surprises, but the fun is in seeing the story play out, and I felt a little cheated by all the scenes I felt were missing.  Valyn's sacrifice in particular lacked the emotional impact I felt it should have -- simply because he hadn't been around long enough for me to care that much about him!  I realize that, at 560 pages, this book is already quite long, but if as much attention had been paid to fleshing out the ending as was paid to the beginning and middle, it would have been perfect.<br />But, even so, I greatly enjoyed this novel and I recommend it to anyone.  It gives you what all fantasy readers want -- a story you can lose yourself in.	2002-08-01
US	53062989	R1D33LRI8WU19O	0765341301	284373444	The Wayfarer Redemption: Book One	Books	5	1	5	N	N	Excellent Fantasy w/ Wonderful Characters -- Worth the Read!	The prologue to this novel was exceedingly icky; it gave me the creeps to such an extent that I almost gave up on it!  But the prologue was also extremely well-written, so I kept reading -- and I'm so glad I did!  I love this book.  While the plot was fascinating and engrossing, other reviewers on this page have described it in great detail, so I won't go into that.  Besides, for me it was the characters that really made the book. <br />The characters, the characters: Axis, Faraday, GoldFeather, Azhure, even Timozel and Borneheld  -- they're all so wonderful, well-drawn and exquisitly real.  I felt like they were real people, people I knew and loved (or hated, in the villains' case).  Axis and Faraday, the two main characters, are both seemingly ordinary people with hidden, extraordinary gifts; they are caught up in the drama and conflict of the Prophecy, and are simply doing the best they can.  They are honorable, good people who try to do the right thing, even though they don't always know what the right thing is.  And, most refreshing of all, this book shows actual character development!  Axis and Faraday grow and change over the course of the novel; as their intellectual and cultural worlds grow and expand, so do they.  They are not the same people at the end of the book as they are in the beginning.<br />Even the villains had depth and complexity to their characters.  Borneheld, Axis's half-brother and Faraday's husband, would be very easy to turn into a one-dimentional stick figure of a character, instead of the fully-developed, complicated man that he is.  And even though we don't know much about Gorgrael, the main villain, monsterous and hideously evil as he is -- we still sense that he has a little humanity left in him.  The way he turned the wraiths into his family, albeit an evil and twisted family, is fascinating to me -- they're both his parents and his children.<br />This is wonderful stuff.  If you're looking for an epic fantasy with well-rounded, memorable characters; complex societies and religions; new ideas to mull over; and plenty of straightforward action, then this is the book for you!  Be forewarned, however: this is the first book of a six-book series, and only the first three have been released in the United States.  And once you start to read, you'll want to keep going!  I just finished the first book myself, and I can hardly wait until tomorrow to get my hands on the second one!	2002-08-01
US	53062989	R3UM5GIJMQVCLK	044100945X	392803311	First Truth (Truth, Book 1)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Entertaining Fantasy Story	I initially picked it up because of the gorgeous cover, but I wasn't sure I would like it, since I haven't been in the mood for fantasy lately.  But I opened it and started to read, and I'm glad I did.  I found this story to be greatly entertaining.  The heroine, Alissa, is refreshingly realistic -- magically gifted, yes, perhaps even extraordinarily so, but still recognizably a nineteen-year-old girl, and subject to the impetuousness of youth.  She makes mistakes, and she has a fierce temper, but she is ultimately an extremely likeable and sympathetic character.<br />As far as world-building goes -- well, we don't see a whole lot of the world, just a small section of it: the plains and the foothills.  (And this makes sense, for our viewpoint character, Alissa, grew up in the foothills and has never been far from home before.  This area is the only one she knows.)  However, that small section is richly detailed, and the prejudice and mistrust between the two groups vividly drawn.  <br />My only complaint about this book is that it ended far too quickly; the story wasn't finished yet!  The resolution of the plot is delayed until the next book in the series comes out -- so if you're the type who can't stand an unfinished story, you might want to wait to read this until then.  However, for everyone else, this was a delightful read that kept me turning the pages.  I recommend it for every fantasy-lover who just wants to read a good story!	2002-07-24
US	53062989	ROZQBWS2S5UB0	0380789337	232060645	Everything and the Moon (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Just About Average	Let me preface this review by saying that I really like Julia Quinn. She is, in fact, one of my favorite romance authors ever. I discovered her with \\"The Duke and I,\\" I devour each of the Bridgerton books as they come out, and now I've gone looking for her earlier books to tide me over until the next installment.<br />Unfortunately, \\"Everything and the Moon\\" is not one of her best works. It's not *bad*, by any means, but there's nothing particualarly memorable about it either. The plot doesn't flow very well -- each segment seems a little disjointed from the one that came before -- and it could have borrowed from any of a thousand other romance novels. The characters don't really stand out either; they're fairly generic, as if they were sent from Central Casting and not fleshed out at all. I've just finished the book, and I have a feeling that in a few days, I won't remember much about it at all.<br />Despite this middle-of-the-road quality, it does have its good points; I occasionally saw flashes of Ms. Quinn's trademark wit and style. Robert's reaction when he almost walked in on Victoria in the bath amused me to no end, and the way Victoria trounces the villain at the end of the book made me both laugh and cheer. But, on the whole, this book was rather flat.<br />This is one of Ms. Quinn's earlier efforts, and it shows -- she has greatly improved as writer since then, in my opinion. If you're just looking for a regency romance to read, there's nothing actually *wrong* with this book; there's just nothing really exciting about it. If you're looking for early Julia Quinn, I recommend reading \\"To Catch an Heiress\\" instead; it's much more lively and charming. If you've never read anything by Julia Quinn before, I recommend picking up a copy of \\"The Duke and I,\\" the first volume of the Bridgerton series -- you'll be letting yourself in for a real treat!	2002-07-21
US	53062989	R3FQ7FTUPXWLM	0380820846	788536867	Romancing Mister Bridgerton (Bridgerton Series, Book 4)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The Perfect Summer Read	The talented Ms. Quinn has produced another winner in her Bridgerton series. This book, as the others in the series, is lively and witty and written in a charming, frothy style that is convincingly period without being inaccesible. This was the perfect summer read -- the plot was entertaining and light, the characters likeable, interesting, and real.<br />And let me take a moment to congratulate Ms. Quinn on her choice of heroine -- the unpopular wallflower, Penelope Featherington. It was heartening to read a romance in which the heroine is not a great beauty, but rather a shy girl who tends to be either ignored or laughed at by her peers. The author gave Penelope real depth of character in this book, and made her someone the reader honestly cares about. I was cheering her on as I read.<br />And finally, the mystery of Lady Whistledown's identity is revealed! I thought I had figured out who it was, but I was completely mistaken -- and delighted to be so.<br />A lovely story, and a lovely book. If you're new to this series, I would probably start with the first book, \\"The Duke and I.\\" You can understand this story without going back, but you'll probably enjoy Penelope and Colin's romance more if you do. (And you'll *definitely* enjoy Lady Whistledown's unmasking more if you've been pondering the question for three books!) If you've already read the rest of the series, then I urge you to snatch this book up without delay!	2002-07-05
US	53062989	RGIG78RX9ZOUF	0505524139	939841716	The Star King (Star Series, Book 1)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Enjoyable, well-written story	I am a science-fiction fan, first and foremost, but I also enjoy a good romance now and again.  So when I first discovered the sub-genre of futuristic romance, I was delighted.  What could be better, I thought?  Quite a lot, apparently.  I have almost always been disappointed with these types of books, the plots generally being far too lame and hackneyed for me to enjoy them.<br />Not so with &quot;The Star King&quot;!  This book was like a breath of fresh air.  The characters are thoroughly enjoyable, the writing crisp and fresh, and the plot did not disappoint me!  This author knows something about world-building.  The universe she created in this novel feels multi-layered and real; Ms. Grant even paid attention to things like the language barrier and religion.  <br />Science-fiction fans -- if you're expecting a new and original science-fictional premise, then you should look elsewhere.  However, if you're looking for a well-told tale with plenty of romance and adventure, then this is the book for you.<br />Futuristic romance fans -- All I can say to you is, buy this book immediately!  It has everything I've ever wanted in a futuristic romance: excitement, a destined love, exotic locales, wonderful characters, and a well-thought-out universe to play in.  Read this one; you won't regret it.	2001-10-31
US	53062989	R1MMKLRSDE9CKA	0451458370	874295287	Alien Taste (Ukiah Oregon, Book 1)	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Original science fiction idea and a lot of fun	This was a wonderful, thoroughly enjoyable book.  Ukiah Oregon was abandoned as a child and raised by a pack of wolves. Discovered and adopted by humans at the approximate age of 12, he has grown to be a part of human life.  He now works as a tracker for a private investigator, a finder of lost children.  But he still has no idea of his true parentage, no idea who they were or why they abandoned him.<br />The novel opens with his latest case -- a missing woman who attacks Ukiah when he finds her, forcing him to kill her in self-defense.  This brings him to the attention of both the FBI and a group known as the Pack, a biker gang that is more than they seem.  And, from this point on, things get *really* weird.<br />I loved this book.  It was great fun to read; it kept me glued to the edge of my seat, always wanting to know what happens next.  The characters, especially Ukiah and Max, were well-drawn, complex, three-dimensional human beings; the villains were scary and evil without being cartoonish.  I cared about these caracters; I really wanted the heros to win and the bad guys to be defeated.  I was swept up in their lives.  The plot was complex and fascinating; it kept me guessing.  I don't want to give anything away, so I won't tell you how it turns out, but I will say this: this book eventually involves aliens.  And the aliens are really original.  Their method of reproduction, the way their memory works -- all of it is new and interesting.<br />If I had one complaint, it would be that I thought the romance was rushed.  Ukiah's love interest is a strong, fascinating woman, but the two of them seem to fall in love almost at first sight.  I wanted the relationship to develop a little more slowly and fully -- but that's a very minor quibble.  It didn't detract from my enjoyment of the book at all.<br />Overall, I loved this book.  It was well-written and compulsively readable.  I will be on the lookout for anything else this author chooses to write!	2001-07-19
US	53062989	RKH5D0EG5R0AD	0441304834	453010069	Guilty Pleasures (Anita Blake Vampire Hunter)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Cool heroine and over-the-top action	This is the first book in the \\"Anita Blake\\" series of mysteries, set in a universe filled with vampires, werewolves (and other were-beings), zombies, and necromancers. Each book is fast-paced, absorbing, action-packed, and over-the-top -- it grabs on and doesn't let go. And I just love Anita herself -- she's a tough, ...heroine who still remains human and real. She's just an utterly cool character. Read the book for her alone, if for no other reason!	2001-07-19
US	53062989	R319IOVMJZVU8R	0312867689	441168957	Bell, Book, and Murder: The Bast Mysteries	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Wiccan detective novels	A collection of three occult detective stories. Best, most accurate description of Wiccans and other pagans I've ever read, likeable heroine, wonderful sense of place and atmosphere (New York City). The mysteries aren't really all that mysterious, but the novels are just so much fun to read that you don't really care!	2001-07-19
US	53062989	RQ7M6A1V536G5	0061009059	830758196	One for the Money (Stephanie Plum, No. 1) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	What a hoot!	This book cracked me up. The set-up is unlikely -- Stephanie Plum, out-of-work lingerie buyer, becomes a bounty hunter -- but it's tons of fun. The plot was well-done and interesting, but you should really read this book for the characters.  They're all vividly drawn and unforgettable, running the gamut from slightly zany and unpredictable to completly and utterly insane.  <br />I just about died laughing.  This book is a real treat.	2001-07-19
US	53062989	R35NILO5I5GN2C	067157812X	136753716	Falling Free (Nebula Award Stories)	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	Fun sci-fi adventure with some deeper philosophical issues	I absolutely love Lois McMaster Bujold; she is one of my all-time favorite authors. But one of the problems I have with recommending her books is that I don't know where to start! It's hard to find the beginning of her Vorkosigan series. Falling Free, although not really part of the series, is the chronological beginning and a good introduction to LMB. In this book (as with all her books), she combines intelligence, humor, drama, and a touch of philosophy and blends them into a rollicking, quick-moving adventure story. This particular novel also has some good, hard science-fictional ideas, ideas which I found fascinating.	2001-07-19
US	53062989	RW8312UJAQSCC	1581821999	320100970	A Rumor of Bones: A Lindsay Chamberlain Mystery	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Wonderful mystery, absorbing read.	Lindsey Chamberlain is a wonderful heroine, supremely self-confidant, self-assured, and intelligent. She's a forensic anthropologist and an archaeologist who specializes in bones. She's on a dig in Georgia when she discovers some bones that shouldn't be there -- too recent. I thoroughly enjoyed this book; I found it a fast, absorbing read, and I felt like I had learned something when I finished it. <br />I will admit that this is not my favorite novel in the series -- I feel that Ms. Connor is still discovering who this character is.  I prefer the more recent novels, like &quot;Skeleton Crew&quot; and &quot;Airtight Case&quot; -- the author's voice seems more certain and sure.<br />But, even so, I still enjoyed this novel very much.  I highly recommend it to any mystery lover!	2001-07-19
US	53062989	RRQS5C8PKQB0U	0812516214	584076112	Dreams Underfoot (Newford)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Lyrical, beautiful urban fantasy	I love Charles de Lint's brand of urban fantasy, the lyricism of his writing, the way he takes the ordinary and banal and adds just a touch of magic and enchantment, transforming it. This short story collection is a good introduction to his fictional town of Newford, where many of his stories and novels take place. These stories range from the beautiful to the horrific; and, unlike most story collections, I didn't feel like they were disjointed or unconnected. There was some kind of unifying force behind them all, so that, together like this, their collective force tells some kind of greater, larger story than any of them do seperately. I was entranced. Give this book a shot; I doubt you'll regret it.	2001-07-19
US	53062989	R3UCGUNKS9X19D	0425148297	587976494	Naked in Death (In Death, Book 1)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Futuristic mystery with a cool, competent heroine.	This book, the first in J. D. Robb's &quot;In Death&quot; series, is a futuristic mystery set in New York and featuring police lieutenant Eve Dallas.  &quot;Naked in Death&quot; grabbed my attention from the first page and didn't let go until the last. This series is addictive.  <br />Our detective, Eve, is tough, focused, and just too cool for words. She's a fascinating character; she has some real human weaknesses and vulnerabilities, but she also has an awesome amount of will and determination.  She made the book for me.<br />This book is action-packed and inventive -- and sexy!  The main suspect/love interest, Roarke, is a wonderful foil to Eve, with his sensuality, charm, and equally strong will; he's also very, very hot.  The sexual tension between these two just sizzles off the page.  <br />My only gripe about the writing: I didn't like the way the author keeps switching pov's in the same scene. One minute we're seeing through the eyes of one character, a few sentences later through another. I found it slightly disorienting. <br />But that's a minor complaint. It certainly didn't stop me from reading -- and loving -- the entire series!	2001-07-19
