US	53065306	RXH3FUYRRDDUT	0060515066	912615672	The Last Night of the Yankee Dynasty: The Game, the Team, and the Cost of Greatness	Books	4	3	9	N	N	Great History, Bad Formatting	The chance to read a beat writer's look back at the years of Yankee greatness in the late 90s is an irresistible one, and Buster Olney gives us all kinds of fascinating information that wasn't known before.    For that I give him five stars. <br /> <br />But I have to take a star off for his decision to frame this look back around Game 7 of the 2001 WS.   Why?   This game first off is too painful for a Yankee fan like me to want to revisit.   Every time I read this book I find myself glossing over the too long recaps of this game so I can get to the stories about the glory years of winning that have more meaning to me as a Yankee fan.    In the end, we're given more info about this one game then we are about some more important games that took place during this period and I think that's really unfortunate.    Olney could have achieved the same results if he'd framed things around Game 5 of the World Series, and kept the title because Game 5, in the wake of the Yankees second unbelievable comeback in that WS, represented the last night the magic of the dynasty was still there and triumphed.    And that would have been a far more worthy story for this Yankee fan than having to revisit the details of a game I will never watch again.	2005-10-12
US	53065306	RB0T08IQFOJNS	0061020141	376306586	Unbeatable: The Historic Season Of The 1998 World Champion New York Yankees	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Best Of The Instant Reviews	The 1998 Yankees championship team, which has to be seen as one of the greatest teams of all time, produced two quick paperback books by NY sportswriters after the season was over.   This one, by NY Post beat reporter George King, is the superior one and the one to read if one wants to re-experience the 98 season with the freshness of how perceptions were at the time.     I've gone back to it many times in the years since, and those who want to write an account of the 98 Yankees from a distance in years to come will have to utilize this book for needed reference purposes.	2005-10-02
US	53065306	R1EQJ9JE3R2MGB	0738536067	561756106	The 1964-1965 New York World's Fair (Images of America)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A Great Primer To A Great Event!	You couldn't pick two finer experts on the 1964 New York World's Fair to put together this photo essay overview of this too-neglected event.    Bill Young is the creator of the magnificent website devoted to the Fair, [...] where you will find all sorts of fascinating information about the Fair, while Bill Cotter has assembled the best collection of amateur Fair photos over the years.    This book spotlights some of those photos and offers a great look at this event that I wish I had been alive to have gone too!    Excellent job, my friends.	2005-08-14
US	53065306	R3T1P3JJ9171KM	047165938X	523634076	The 50 Greatest Yankee Games	Books	1	22	26	N	Y	A Major Disappointment	This book was not what I had hoped to see.    50 games are given the same kind of thumbnail sketch that I've seen too many times before in so many other books that the end result is an end product that just seems like a slapped together collection of information anyone can glean from books already out there.     And if that isn't bad enough, some of Tan's choices for the 50 Greatest Games are mindboggling in their stupidity when contrasted with what gets left out.    Who in their right mind would say that a game where Tony Fernandez hit for the cycle in 1995 was greater than Game 2 of the 1995 ALDS with Jim Leyritz's two run HR in the 15th inning?    Or that the Jeffrey Maier game of the 96 ALCS should be left out, along with Games 4 and 5 of the 2001 WS?    I almost got the feeling that Tan didn't want to write about multiple games from a particular postseason because that would have required too much effort on her part.    Indeed, most of the lead-in for a game description consists of a recap of the entire season up to that point (which in itself eats up much of the brief time allotted for the game), and to do more than one game for a particular postseason would have required more detailed about the game and less filler time.    You also would have thought that Tan would at least go to the trouble of providing box score information on the games profiled, but we don't even get something convenient like that.   And her description of the Babe Ruth called HR game contains a howling error when she reprints the so-called \\"Radio call\\" of Cubs broadcaster Quin Ryan.   That call is a phony recreation done long after the fact, and Tan should have known that.    Books like this are IMO the worst kind because all they do is give the most rudimentary thumbnail sketch of a game without attempting anything fresh or insightful.   If one is not as much of a hardcore fan and wants just an introductary primer to some of these games, it can perhaps be useful, but for the serious Yankee fan, don't waste your money.	2005-03-10
US	53065306	R1POKYS1XW2HQF	0470834005	512125001	'67: The Maple Leafs, Their Sensational Victory, and the End of an Empire	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Great Look At The End Of An Era In Hockey	The Toronto Maple Leafs are a long, storied member of the NHL as one of the \\"original six\\" franchises, but their history in recent decades shows a futility that is starting to close in on the one known by Ranger fans like me for many years until 1994 (only Chicago has gone longer without a Cup).    The last Toronto Cup came in 1967, which not completely coincidentally was the last year of the \\"Original Six\\" era of the NHL before the onslaught of expansion, and it is about this team that this book is chiefly concerned with. <br /> <br />The approach by Cox and Stellick is quite interesting.   Chapters on the individual games of the playoffs are interspersed with a deeper look at the players of this team and their careers before and after 67, as well as the general history of the Leafs itself during this time and how things were not well in the ranks of management with poor decision making by GM-Coach Punch Imlach that in effect gutted the team's future, as well as the misdeeds of co-owners Stafford Smythe and Harold Ballard that also helped run the team into the ground in the years that followed.   Cox and Stellick also recount the details of sordid tales of sexual abuse by Maple Leaf Gardens employees that weren't known for decades, that was also sadly part of the fabric of this last era of winning hockey in Toronto. <br /> <br />About the only quibble I have with the book is their whitewash of disgraced Players Union head Alan Eagleson, whom they interviewed in regards to his role in trying to form the union at the time.    It almost seemed like that in order to talk to Eagleson for this book, they had to promise to go easy on him regarding his later disgrace and frankly that doesn't speak too well of them.    Aside from that, this book is the best I have ever seen that offers some well-written insight into what the NHL was like in the last years of the Original Six era, and even the casual hockey fan should be able to enjoy it.	2005-02-19
US	53065306	R3RGQNDIBRC8GF	0743509854	261373087	Reagan In His Own Voice	Books	5	34	37	N	N	A Precious Historical Legacy	As I write this, the news has come through of Ronald Reagan's sad passsing at age 93.   It marked an appropriate occasion for me to listen to this set for the first time that had been given me as a gift.<br />This is by far a precious historical legacy.   In Ronald Reagan's own voice, delivering radio commentaries from 1975-79, we gain a better understanding of why he became President in 1980, and our greatest president of the last half-century.    Students of recent political history should listen to these to really understand the measure of Reagan's convictions, and his plain-spoken, amiable personality that enabled him to connect with the American people in a way no other President of the last 60 years has done before or since.<br />Godspeed, Mr. President, and thank you for what you gave to our country and to the world as well.	2004-06-05
US	53065306	R2I998Z6I229GF	0060507322	281213133	The Bad Guys Won! A Season of Brawling, Boozing, Bimbo-chasing, and Championship Baseball with Straw, Doc, Mookie, Nails, The Kid, and the Rest of the 1986 Mets, the Rowdiest Team Ever to Put on a New York Uniform--and Maybe the Best	Books	3	6	27	N	N	Okay Overview	It's hard for me to believe that more time has elapsed since the Mets last championship in 86 than elapsed between 69 and 86.   I suppose 86 still seems fresh and recent to us thanks to the endless video replays we've seen over the years.   That's why it was interesting to get this book and see a perspective of looking back on this dominant team with the benefit of nearly 20 years hindsight now upon us.<br />Jeff Pearlman's book almost delivers.   The overview of how the team is put together and what they went through is fine.   He also hits the nail on what kind of team this 86 club was in terms of attitude.<br />Unfortunately, Pearlman's problem is like so many of those overawed by the 86 Mets, he seemingly keeps looking on this &quot;bad guys&quot; side of the 86 team as some kind of asset to be admired, and in the process overlooks the simple fact that the me-first bad-guy attitude of this team explains why they were nothing more than a one-season wonder, who squandered a chance to become a truly great baseball dynasty.    Sure, Frank Cashen made bad trades that made that possible, but just imagine what kind of a better club would have resulted if there'd been a bit of discipline exercised to keep Dwight Gooden and Darryl Strawberry from wrecking their one-way tickets to Cooperstown, and the Mets chance at greatness in the process?   Ultimately, that lack of discipline that they could get by with for one year in 86 came back to haunt them in more ways than they could have imagined.<br />That is why this 86 club will never be confused with the real great New York teams of all time like the 27, 61 and yes, the 98 Yankees.   Pearlman's contemptuous dismissal of the late 90s Yankee dynasty as a bunch of &quot;boring&quot; players misses one elementary point.   The 98 Yankees sustained themselves to win two more championships in a row and the 86 Mets produced zilch (just as the franchise has produced zilch since).   The Yankee fans like me, will gladly take that kindof sustained excellence done with less smartass pizazz over being a one-year wonder with too much flash, any time.	2004-05-31
US	53065306	R3HWLBJOGLYWEI	0879757361	401380967	More Steve Allen on the Bible, Religion and Morality (More Steve Allen on the Bible, Religion & Morality)	Books	1	12	46	N	N	You Should Have Stuck To Comedy, Steve	My respect and admiration for Steve Allen the comedian, creator of the Tonight Show and \\"What's My Line?\\" panelist is limitless.  And so is my contempt for his attempt to masquerade as a Biblical scholar and pass his drivel off as something to take seriously.<br />Allen's whole problem stems from the fact that he thinks he can understand God and how He was worked through history through the rationalist/Enlightenment lens of modern man.  He in short, presumes that he, like so many others who do not want to accept the truth of God's word as it has been revealed, can presume to judge God through the limited capacity of the human mind which is ultimately the greatest exercise in arrogance I think anyone can presume to do.<br />I find it strange that Allen would say that his discourses do not presume a belief that God does not exist.  But to borrow a page from the greatest defender of orthodox Christianity, C.S. Lewis, this is a simply illogical position to take.  If one presumes that there is a God who has created the universe and is a real presence, then it is illogical to think that God is capricious enough to prevent His Word and His message from being revealed clearly to man.  This is the supreme irony because in arguing that a literalist view of God makes Him somehow capricious because the Old Testament enemies of the Hebrews are smote down on occasion, then I would submit that if no clear view of God has emerged until the perspective of post-18th century Enlightenment humanists, that is by far an even greater mark of a God engaging in a malicious game with humanity, and thus, renders his whole framework ridiculous.<br />Steve, may you Rest in Peace (though I fear with approaches like this to Scripture that may be a forlorn hope of mine), and God bless you for the rich creative legacy you left us in television and comedy, but these forays into something you had not a whit of competence in, ultimately besmirches your otherwise great resume.  Such a pity.<br />One note to the gentleman above who chose to attack me personally rather than look for virtue in this silly book.  I *am* a history teacher and have taught so at Wheaton College and Joliet Junior College in Illinois for over five years.  So much for your vaunted skills of objectivity.  My POV is that this is a rotten book written by someone who was in over his head on a subject he knew little about and who had no more business writing a book on the Bible than I as a history teacher have writing a book on nuclear physics.  Such a pity that such common sense standards of author competency are deigned irrelevant for a book like this.	2003-09-18
US	53065306	RS20FC920NSIK	0895261405	647115467	Dereliction of Duty: The Eyewitness Account of How President Bill Clinton Compromised America's Long-Term National Security	Books	5	13	21	N	N	A Fascinating Insight Into America's Worst President EVER	I have noticed an interesting trend in reading the reviews of this book.   Whenever there is a negative review, it is not written in a way that addresses the specifics of what is to be found in the book.   Rather, the negative reviews, to a fault, are nothing more than what can only be called &quot;Spam reviews.&quot;  They are utterly worthless in meaningful content, and have been posted for one reason only:  to drive down the ratings for this book and indulge in nothing but hate-filled invective about George W. Bush which isn't the subject of this book.   The book is about Bill Clinton, and by an eyewitness to Bill Clinton's conduct as Commander In Chief.   It's amusing how these spam reviewers of the Left lack the guts to think that there is actually something as ordinary as *factual information* by which they can repudiate anything Colonel Patterson has to say.   Instead, we get &quot;Bush is the real evil one&quot; and then we get other disses about how Colonel Patterson should not have written this because it's wrong for a military officer to write this.   In fact, Colonel Patterson was not on active duty at the time he wrote this, and he has as much right to report what he saw so the citizens can realize what a terrible President Bill Clinton was now that he is a private citizen.   The fact that this book can only attract spam reviews from the Clintonistas shows how monumentally insecure they are when it comes to defending their hero's honor.	2003-08-12
US	53065306	R3R93CRD3XB6PT	0071402470	746663395	The Boys of October : How the 1975 Boston Red Sox Embodied Baseball's Ideals - and Restored Our Spirits	Books	3	14	17	N	N	So-So Overview	This is a competent, but not stellar overview of the 75 World Series.  The problem is that it is not told from the standpoint of an objective chronicle of why this was such a great World Series, it is told from the narrow perspective of one fan, who feels the need to indulge in his narrower perspectives about things that have nothing to do with the subject I want to be reading about.   I can put up with an overview from a Red Sox fan's perspective, but do I really have to read his tiresome (and for me personally offensive) digressions about Cold War politics?   Or is this kind of arrogance that assumes I'm going to nod in agreement with his asinine remarks about Fidel Castro just so endemic to political liberals who write about baseball?  <br />Enough of that rant though.  I really can not fathom why the author can't do something as simple as provide a little background context to this World Series.   There is no mention of Boston's drive to the pennant that season in terms of how they did it, and nothing about their stunning upset of Oakland (three time defending champions) in the LCS.   Instead, the author just starts with the World Series and breaks down the games so narrowly, which ordinarily would be a nice thing to do, but the absence of some background in his earlier chapters explaining how we got to this point ends up creating a pretty poor narrative overall.   The author in a sense expects us to be familiar already with the 75 World Series and the season that led to us, hence his justification for dumping us in the middle of a story with not enough perspective on how we got there in the first place.    Without the smarmy political asides we would still have a book that aspires to be definitive, but in the end can be no better than a supplement.	2003-07-10
US	53065306	RZKYOZNL6HKC3	0895261677	314528012	The Final Days: The Last, Desperate Abuses of Power by the Clinton White House	Books	5	29	42	N	N	The Last Days Of America's Worst President Exposed	I would like to say to the last reviewer that he has a lot of nerve to complain about the \\"hate\\" in Barbara Olson's book (without once documenting any specifics) and then in the same breath declare how glad he is that she was a victim of the tragedy of September 11 because it means that her voice has now been silenced.   It's that kind of perverted double standard in the ranks of the American Left that people like Barbara felt the need to speak out against, and in her last work she does a masterful job of showing how the stench of corruption that was the Clinton Administration carried up to the last minute.	2002-11-26
US	53065306	R3E2K6QXMVC6XL	0786410027	467371874	This Day in Yankee History	Books	1	1	2	N	Y	Seriously Overpriced And Poorly Presented	I was in for a major letdown when I received this...I expected a lot more than (a) a skimpy thin paperback book and (b) a random collection of jottings that are not presented in a clear, readable fashion.    This is nothing more than a glorified post-it-note calendar book turned into a thin softcover with skimpy details and then given an outrageously high price.   If you're used to the kind of detailed study like in Lyle Spatz's book about the history of Yankee trades, you won't find anything to like here.	2002-06-29
US	53065306	R260F6PTTLQACK	0609608959	659976251	Bombers: An Oral History of the New York Yankees	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Well Worth Reading	When I first saw this book and gave it a brief thumbing through in the bookstore I was put off by the fact that the title is really a bit of a misnomer because this book is not a comprehensive overview of the entire history of the Yankees and there are a number of leaps in chronology (from 1980 to the 2000 World Series just to name the most obvious one) but once you settle down and realize what this book is trying to do, you'll be hooked all the way.   Lally, who wrote the fine overview of Yankee seasons from 1965-1982 in his 1983 book &quot;Pinstriped Summers&quot;, sets out to try and tell stories about moments in Yankee history through the years that have not been told before by going back to the surviving players both Yankee and opponent alike who are still able to give their version of events.   As a result, we get introduced to a large number of fresh and fascinating stories such as Cincinnati stealing signs in the 1961 World Series, and there is a postscript to the recent revelation of the 1951 Giants stealing signs in the pennant race as we learn that Leo Durocher refused to do that in the 51 World Series against the Yankees, fearing he would get caught.<br />No Yankee fan should be without this!	2002-06-29
US	53065306	RX7RY749AWWVW	0316809098	127437881	Polar the Titanic Bear	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Precious	To me, \\"Polar, The Titanic Bear\\" is a precious book because it has so many fascinating dimensions to it.   On the one hand, it is a charmingly written children's story about a child's stuffed polar bear and the journeys it takes with it's master around the world, culminating ultimately aboard the Titanic.    Second, it is a must have for Titanic scholars as it provides us with insight into the Spedden family that traveled in First Class and survived the disaster by getting into Boat #3.   The father, Frederic Spedden, was one of the few First Class male passengers who was so fortunate as so many other men that night died.<br />But finally, there is the extra poignance that this story takes on because of what it ultimately represents, and that is the love of a mother for her son in writing this book and presenting it to him as a Christmas gift, as Daisy Spedden did for eight year old Douglas.   The closing narration of Polar reflects the hopes and wishes all parents have for their children, \\"I hope he will be blessed with a long and happy life\\" and then you find out that Douglas, after surviving the Titanic, lost his life just a year later at age nine when he was struck by a car while at his parents summer home.   Only the hardest of hard-hearted people could not be moved to tears by learning that.    In the end, as we read ultimately of how the Speddens were able to move on from this tragedy in their lives, this helps make \\"Polar\\" filled with more insights for adults than the average children's book might have.    No Titanic enthusiast can afford to be without this book.	2002-06-13
US	53065306	R2RPXCXYH3JZQK	096670360X	281307387	Stolen Valor : How the Vietnam Generation Was Robbed of Its Heroes and Its History	Books	5	37	42	N	N	Outstanding Research That Exposes Disgraceful Fraud	Bravo to B.G. Burkett for exposing a good many of the myths surrounding Vietnam veterans that Hollywood and too many gullible journalists have been promoting for decades.   By not letting himself get taken in by good sounding stories and instead doing simple common sense research like using the Freedom Of Information Act to get the service records of the many men claiming medals and decorations they were never entitled to have, or conning the taxpayers out of funds for \\"PTSD\\" due to combat conditions they never could have experienced, Burkett provides us with a chilling insight into how the biases of our elite journalists and the elites of popular culture have allowed so many of those con artists to paint a false picture of the Vietnam Vet in general.     I was especially gratified to read the accounts of how Burkett's research helped expose the men who received flattering profiles in Dan Rather's 1988 CBS documentary \\"The Wall Within\\" as dishonest, but even more powerful are his accounts of high ranking officials in local veterans organizations who built up their reputations based on lies, as well as some hardened criminals who tried to excuse their conduct based on their bogus tales of \\"suffering\\" from Vietnam combat experiences they never went through.<br />Patience Mason's review below baffles me.    First off, she doesn't seem to have read the book because she keeps saying that Burkett relied on DD214 files for his research, when in fact he relied on the service records from the National Archives.   And I have a blunt question for Mason:   Do you think its no big deal that there are many people wearing decorations they're not entitled to wear, or who give Vietnam Vets a bad name when the evidence shows they never spent a day in combat?    Many of the phonies that Burkett exposes were not merely of the \\"truck driver\\" variety, they were people who never spent a day in Vietnam.    Why should that offend Mason or anyone else that Burkett has exposed these con artists and in some cases helped send some crooks to jail where they belong?<br />I somehow suspect that those who bash Burkett's work do so less because they can challenge the facts he puts forth, but more because of their ideological biases.	2002-03-01
US	53065306	RVBUD4OCT674C	1570281971	739055231	Sports on New York Radio	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Outstanding Reference Guide	David J. Halberstam (not to be confused with the more well-known David Halberstam) has written one of the best reference books ever on sports broadcasting, focusing on the history of radio play by play in New York City from its inception in the 20s to the present.   Baseball, Football, Basketball, Hockey etc. are all given equal treatment in their own chapters, and while this can lead to occasionally repetitive information, that in no way detracts from the opportunity to enjoy this work.   Only Curt Smith's &quot;Voices Of The Game&quot; has ever done anything similar to what Halberstam has done in this instance.     I was glad to see Halberstam correct the injustice Smith's book did to the late Frank Messer by giving him due credit for his 18 years of outstanding work on the Yankees broadcast team (but I have to dissent from Halberstam's negative view of current Yankees voice John Sterling and think its not fair to cite one disgruntled anonymous letter to the Post as a bellwether of how Yankee fans feel about his work), and other voices of New York sports like Mel Allen, Red Barber, Marty Glickman, Marv Albert, Jim Gordon etc. also receive attention for their fine work over the years with various teams.   Along the way you'll learn all kinds of fascinating trivia you never would have expected.   Did you know Monty Hall of &quot;Let's Make A Deal&quot; spent a season as a Rangers color analyst in 1960?    Or that the Mets were on one of the weakest stations in NY during their amazing run in 69?   That's just the tip of some of the fascinating material you'll learn in this book.   Bravo to David Halberstam for giving us this must-have reference guide that collectors of historic broadcasts me can never be without!	2002-01-26
US	53065306	R1CEE7XYW56SQI	0195059220	288057768	The Dodgers Move West	Books	3	22	31	N	N	Misses The Deeper Meaning	The problem with Neal Sullivan's book is not in the facutal information that he's gathered surrounding the events that led to the Dodgers move west.   The problem lies in the fact that his desire to approach the subject with a cold detachment forces him to overlook the deeper emotional impact of this move, and ultimately avoid completely the ethical questions surrounding the Dodgers move west and the lasting scars it left on Brooklyn.<br />Sullivan's thesis is that Walter O'Malley, the most reviled man in New York City, did not set out to move the Dodgers to Los Angeles and would have stayed in Brooklyn had he received the land he wanted.   He makes a compelling case that ultimately Robert Moses, who wanted only the eventual Flushing Meadow site of Shea Stadium developed for stadium use, was perhaps the greater villain in the whole affair.  And he argues that O'Malley was less the conniving evil figure that the tradtional view of works like &quot;Bums&quot; and &quot;The Boys Of Summer&quot; would indicate.<br />This part of Sullivan's thesis has some merit to it.   Where Sullivan ultimately loses me is his degenerating into something bordering on O'Malley sycophancy.   He argues that Walter O'Malley deserves induction in the Hall of Fame for having supposedly had the the foresight to expand baseball to the west, a community that had long been denied baseball, and because the Dodgers achieved success in Los Angeles.   And he argues that because Ebbets Field had been built under the &quot;free market&quot; model of baseball economics, Walter O'Malley ultimately had every right to do what he wanted to do with his own ball club.<br />This however, is where Sullivan is dead wrong.   First, Walter O'Malley does not deserve induction into the Hall of Fame simply for being the first beneficiary of an idea that other owners and men were envisioning much sooner.   Nor for that matter does O'Malley merit induction simply because he presided over successful teams, because under that model George Steinbrenner should be a candidate for induction as well.   The success of the Dodgers in Los Angeles ultimately rests with its players and front office management like Buzzie Bavasi and Al Campanis, not O'Malley.   <br />Finally, Sullivan's determination to prove that O'Malley was in the technical right to do what he felt was necessary to make more money for his franchise, conveniently overlooks a salient point.   Walter O'Malley may have been the team's owner, but the Dodgers were not a longstanding family business as the Giants had been with Horace Stoneham.   O'Malley was an outsider who had forced his way to the top and had been principal owner for less than a decade when he decided that he had the right to take something that had been the heart and soul of a community for 67 years away from them forever, even though his financial situation wasn't comparable to that of franchise owners in Philadelphia, St. Louis and Boston who had moved earlier in the decade (as well as that of Horace Stoneham).   Technically, O'Malley had the right to move, but ethically and morally, the Brooklyn Dodgers did not belong to O'Malley the man, they belonged to the people of Brooklyn.   If Walter O'Malley wasn't making good money from the team, then his first obligation was to cut his losses, sell and let other local ownership try their hand at improving the situation.   This is ultimately the ethical side that should separate a sports franchise ownership apart from any other business, when it is a part of the community and Neal Sullivan misses the boat completely on this point in his determination to whitewash the heart of the matter and make O'Malley look good in the end.	2001-06-25
US	53065306	RMIFM7UCNBLJU	0380977559	157828179	True Blue: The Dramatic History of the Los Angeles Dodgers, Told by the Men Who Lived It	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Perfect Follow-Up To &quot;Bums&quot;	Because the saga of the Brooklyn Dodgers has long captivated authors, there's been a general reluctance to address the history of the team after Walter O'Malley broke the spirit of a city forever when he moved the team to Los Angeles.   Books like Roger Kahn's &quot;The Boys Of Summer&quot; and Peter Golenbock's &quot;Bums&quot; convey the feeling that the story of the Dodgers ended so unhappily with the move to LA that why would you want to read about what happened next.    <br />Steve Delsohn's &quot;True Blue&quot; rectifies the absence of significant books about the history of the LA Dodgers by using the oral history approach Golenbock used for &quot;Bums.&quot;   The end result is a generally fascinating overview of the team's history from a wide variety of players, coaches, writers etc.    Delsohn only uses those he actually interviewed,  avoiding the technique used by Golenbock of borrowing older quotes from those who are now dead to fill in other gaps of the story.<br />The book succeeds in conveying the general story of the team since it came to LA, especially in detailing the behind-the-scenes struggles of the team (the uneasiness caused by Leo Durocher's presence as a coach during the early 60s, the question of whether Walter Alston was forced out after 1976, the more turbulent problems since the sale to Fox).    If you want to know the behind-the-scenes history of the team, you will be impressed.   If you want some indepth attention given to the significant games that took place in LA Dodger history, then that's where you're going to be in for a letdown, because there is almost little or no discussion of the major games of the historic seasons and the postseason games except in the most cursory fashion.   This is what keeps the book from five stars to me.	2001-06-21
US	53065306	R16D8XKQ9L39QM	0895262274	620354319	At Any Cost: How Al Gore Tried to Steal the Election	Books	5	6	16	N	N	An Honest Account Of Prince Albert's Attempted Coup	This book is the only account any honest person needs to read about the Election aftermath.   And how telling it is, that the leftists in this forum who have trashed Mr. Sammon's work have not resorted to any rebuttal of the facts, but instead engage in the same kind of character smears that their hero Prince Albert and his thugs engaged in against Katharine Harris and the majority members of the US Supreme Court in order to deflect attention.    To the gentleman who scoffed at the charge of Gore and the Democrats trying to deny servicemen the right to vote, why don't you bother responding to Sammon's point which produces the smoking-gun memo written by Democratic hatchet man Mark Heron showing that this strategy of trying to disqualify military votes was the Gore campaign's modus operandi, even as they hypocritically talked in the public about their need to &quot;let every vote count&quot;?<br />To all those who trash this book, I challenge them to address the factual points in their reviews.   Where has Mr. Sammons written anything factually wrong?   Do they deny the fact that the networks had a curious habit of awarding instant Gore victories in states on Election Night, yet delayed for more than a half hour minimum in states Bush won comfortably?   Do they deny that Tom Brokaw slipped up and said &quot;We need a few more states&quot; (meaning Gore)?    Do they deny that there was a shameful attempt to deny the rights of soldiers to vote?   Do they deny that there was a coordinated effort to slander and smear Katharine Harris in true Clintonian tradition?    Do they deny that seven justices, including two liberals and a Clinton appointee no less (Stephen Breyer) found the entire recount procedure flagrantly unconstitutional?<br />Our country came perilously close to a coup d'etat for the first time because Al Gore, like Bill Clinton, put getting ahead for himself ahead of any consideration for the Constitution and the rule of law.   Bill Sammons book is a chilling reminder of how easily this can happen when there is a partisan press corps willing to cheer on such a coup if it's done by the liberal candidate.	2001-06-18
US	53065306	RR2VX0GEVY4EV	1930844182	818602888	Now Pitching for the Yankees: Spinning the News for Mickey, Billy, and George	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Must Read For All Yankee Fans!	Unlike Maury Allen's disappointing &quot;All Roads To October&quot;, which presented itself as a comprehensive overview of the Steinbrenner era but was just a dull, lackluster personal memoir with skimpy rehashings of old info, Marty Appel doesn't pretend to offer us anything more than his own personal memoir of working with the Yankees from 1968 to 1977, where he rose from a college student given the job of handling Mickey Mantle's fan mail, to the demanding position of director of Public Relations.    And what a fascinating memoir it is, offering an up-close look at the Yankees from the latter days of the dreary CBS years of the early 70s, through the return to glory in the early years of George Steinbrenner's tumultuous ownership.   Appel offers anecdotes that range from the spellbinding (being present when Gabe Paul made his phone call to Bobby Murcer telling him he'd been traded) to the poignant (running after Horace Clarke to say goodbye to him following Clarke's trade, and being the only member of the Yankee organization to so much as say goodbye to the perpetual symbol of 1965-74 Yankees mediocrity) to the comical (Willie Randolph's insistence on wearing #30 when Appel and clubhouse man Pete Sheehy had been trying to keep it unofficially retired after Mel Stottlemyre's release).    <br />This book is a must for all Yankee fans who grew up in the 70s and ranks as a great supplement to Philip Bashe's comprehensive overview of the era &quot;Dog Days.&quot;   Don't miss this one!	2001-06-10
US	53065306	R3O5YI7BFT0TVE	0964140225	527053102	Big Red Dynasty: How Bob Howsam & Sparky Anderson Built the Big Red Machine	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Excellent Overview	What a joke that a misleading impression of this book has to be left on visitors to this site based on the ridiculous &quot;reviews&quot; of the first two &quot;reviewers.&quot;<br />This book is a wonderful, comprehensive overview of one of baseball's best teams of the 1970s (ranking only with the Charley Finley A's dynasty) that succeeds because it is willing to go into each season from 1970-78 in depth and provide more than just a skimped over rehash of events.   You get the full picture of how the &quot;Big Red Machine&quot; was put together on the field and off, and also get candid insights into how the dynasty ultimately declined as the free agent revolution hit baseball in the late 70s.<br />My only complaint with the book is the authors decision to stop their study after the 1978 season with the departure of Pete Rose and the dismissal of Sparky Anderson.   The Reds won a division title in 1979 with most of the &quot;Big Red Machine&quot; still intact (Morgan, Bench, Foster, Concepcion) and also put together baseball's best record in 1981 and this final phase of Reds quality baseball merited analysis as well, and not just the quick, casual dismissal the authors give it.	2001-06-07
US	53065306	R3IGAUEK9EY5MH	0415922879	987524510	Broadway Babies Say Goodnight: Musicals Then and Now	Books	5	85	95	N	N	A Breath Of Fresh Air!	It's usually quite lonely being a political conservative as I am, and also a devotee of Broadway musicals since for such a long time even in its now seemingly more &quot;conservative&quot; days of the tradtional book musical, Broadway was always the domain of men who possessed very poltically left wing points of view.   But during the heyday of Broadway's golden age, liberals like Lerner and Loewe, Rodgers And Hammerstein etc. knew that their audiences were comprised of diverse viewpoints and hence strove first to just entertain with a minimum of social commentary (when Lerner in his advancing years succumbed to the desire to be pretentious, the results, &quot;1600 Pennsylvania Avenue&quot; and &quot;Dance A Little Closer&quot; ended up disappearing in a week and are now deservedly forgotten).    Such is not the case with today's Broadway where not only are all new musicals and plays usually loaded with radical left wing social commentary but even the musical revivals are subject to PC rewrites to satisfy today's narrow audience of those on the far left (case in point, the tamperings in &quot;Damn Yankees&quot; which this book comments on, concerning the tacky aside about J. Edgar Hoover which doesn't work in the musical's book and is the biggest exercise of self-indulgence so typical of the arrogant left wing mindset that dominates today's theater).<br />As such, it is a wonderful breath of fresh air to find this book by Mark Steyn, a theater critic who happens to be a political conservative, offering a good deal of telling insights as to why Broadway has largely lost its way the last couple decades, though it is very unfair and typical of the left-wing arrogance of some of the writers below that all of his criticisms are rooted in his ideology.   To blast today's musicals on their inability to provide a good integrated score and book, as well as good songs is the kind of criticism that a liberal like Richard Rodgers, who walked out of &quot;Hair&quot; after Act One, would have no problem with.  (Indeed, apart from &quot;Memory&quot; when was the last time a Broadway song made into the standard repertoire of American popular music?)   Steyn proves to be provacative at times, and also very funny as well on a number of occasions that you have to applaud his brilliance even if you don't end up agreeing with him all the time.   His chapter on Stephen Sondheim is priceless, showing the strange contradiction of how the works of Sondheim that are so timeless in their appeal (&quot;West Side Story&quot; and &quot;Gypsy&quot;) are the ones that are put down the most by his most die-hard fans in favor of his forgettable flops.  <br />One other note to MssOtis@aol.com who likes to use the term &quot;McCarthyism&quot; with the same reckless abandon so typical of the militant left, yet like so many of its members does so in total ignorance of the actual events that spawned the term.  One, Senator McCarthy didn't send anyone to jail, and two he had nothing to do with the investigation of Hollywood Communists (all of whom went to jail for the very real crime of contempt of Congress, not their poltical beliefs and the fact that they were leftists or in some cases committed Stalin bootlickers).   &quot;McCarthyism&quot; is a term which in its proper context refers to unproved or reckless accusations against someone with the intent to damage or smear merely beacuse of one's political associations.   It has nothing to do with sending people to jail for their beliefs.   And in its proper context, MssOtis@aol.com by smearing Mark Steyn because he is a conservative who writes for the American Spectator on occasion, is the true practitioner of &quot;McCarthyism&quot; in the end.	2001-05-01
US	53065306	R2BTLM08FK6L6E	0895263874	304137842	Disney: The Mouse Betrayed	Books	5	15	25	N	N	Outstanding Look At Why Disney Has Lost Its Way	It amuses me to no end, that the negative reviews I've seen of this book don't respond to any of the substantive things the authors point out, but merely bash them for their politics and for the fact that they look at the trends in the Disney organization of the last twenty years in a negative light.    <br />This book is truly the finest summation of why after enjoying and remembering fondly to this day my trips to Disney World as a child between 1976 and 1993 I will never go back again.   Today, Disney had become the poster boy for promoting political correctness, anti-Christian, pro-militant gay agendas and that is something I can do without.   <br />Particularly illuminating is the chapter on how one of the most special attractions at Disney World, the original &quot;Hall Of Presidents&quot; was changed and tampered as the result of one radical, out of step left-wing historian's denunciation of Abraham Lincoln's real speech as &quot;McCarthyistic&quot; and that the celebration of American leadership was &quot;fascistic.&quot;   Said historian was then given carte blanche to redo the whole exhibit, and to top it all off Michael Eisner decided to let Bill Clinton deliver some platitudes (which unlike Lincoln's speech had to be made up for him.)   <br />Truly spellbinding, and a must read for those of us who wonder why the magic is now long gone from the Disney organization and its once magical theme parks.	2001-04-14
US	53065306	R2OR50KM8C31E3	0786404418	754722827	An Analytical Guide to Television's Battlestar Galactica	Books	3	28	38	N	Y	Much Needed Corrective, But Too Many Flaws	On the plus side, Muir is to be commended for finally setting the record straight concerning the one thing that &quot;Battlestar Galactica&quot; has taken an unfair rap for so many years about, that it was a  &quot;ripoff.&quot;   As he tellingly notes, not only was the George Lucas  lawsuit highly suspect (and eventually dismissed) but Lucas himself had a  far bigger track record of &quot;ripping off&quot; other sci-fi stories for  Star Wars, if one were to apply the same standards to his  work.<br />Unfortunately, as one of those who views Galactica as more than  just a &quot;guilty pleasure&quot; (I am the author of more than a dozen  Galactica fanfic stories) there are ultimately a good many things about  this book that end up driving me up the wall.   First off, Muir gets way  too carried away with his literary criticism style and this causes him to  fall in love with ideas of his that are not borne out by what BG's creators  have said.   Case in point is Muir pushing the long-discredited &quot;Cain  in the wreckage&quot; theory concerning the episode &quot;War Of The  Gods.&quot;   Terrence McDonnell, Galactica's story editor, laid this to  rest once and for all in 1993 when he said that they had filmed a scene  showing the victims to be fellow demons of the Count Iblis character but  ABC censored it.   Muir chose not to consult McDonnell, Glen Larson or any  other participant in the production of the show on this point, or any other  one for that matter, and that is simply inexcusable when he's going to  bandy about theories that are not correct.<br />I also object to Muir's  irresponsible use of the term &quot;fascist&quot; to describe Galactica's  underlying political ideology, which is closer to the spirit of Reagan  conservatism than it is to liberalism.   For Muir to use an ugly term like  &quot;fascist&quot; to describe viewpoints that are merely part of the  normal conservative fabric says a lot about how there are some people on  the left these days who are far more irresponsible than 50s paranoics of  the right ever were about &quot;communist&quot; ideas in popular  entertainment that they perceived.	2000-07-21
US	53065306	R1W172SQ386C9F	1570282196	378874720	Cracked Ice	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Great Insiders Perspective	I'm afraid the previous reviewer does Stan Fischler a disservice, because if he doesn't know who he is prior to picking up the book he's setting himself up for a disappointment.   Fischler happens to be one of the most  knowledgable men about hockey but he also happens to be New York based and  reports on the Islanders and Devils so you would have to expect that he's  going to focus chiefly on his own strengths.   Devoting space to the moves  of Minnesota and Quebec would be like asking a Quebec writer/broadcaster to  devote equal space to the travails of the Islanders and Devils.   And while  as a Ranger fan Fischler's anti-Ranger bias has annoyed me for years at  times, he is a knowledgable insider and the best hockey author I know of.    This book is worth reading.	2000-06-24
US	53065306	R2F1PQQQBZTYVY	0312261756	840355711	All Roads Lead to October: Boss Steinbrenner's 25-Year Reign over the New York Yankees	Books	2	9	10	N	N	I Expected Better	Rabid Yankee fan that I am, I bought this book expecting a fascinating overview of the Steinbrenner era with some new insights and perspectives.   I got neither.<br />Maury Allen was without question a talented sportswriter  in his prime, but this ranks as the worst written sports history book I  have ever read.   It soon becomes clear that Allen's book isn't the product  of extensive research but merely personal reminiscences and meanderings  that offer very little sense of depth or substance about this period at  all.   Allen's most gripping chapter is his first one concerning his  eyewitness perspective on the Fritz Peterson-Mike Kekich &quot;wife  swap&quot;.   After that, it's all downhill with skimpy warmed over  rehashings of things I've read about in so many better written  books.<br />Along the way, when Allen skimps over the seasons and games of the  period he's supposedly writing about he wanders off into annoying  digressions about players of the 50s Brooklyn Dodgers, or the early 60s  Mets, or Richie Ashburn, or being rude to Richard Nixon in 1969, none of  which has anything to do with the Steinbrenner era.   And on top of that,  he gets so many basic facts wrong that after awhile it really gets  annoying.   There's trouble in the opening when he has the Mets beating  Houston instead of Arizona in last year's postseason!   On another occasion  he describes Dave Righetti's 1983 no-hitter as the first at Yankee Stadium  since 1951 (uh Maury, what about Don Larsen?)   Don Mattingly is described  as the first Yankee captain since Thurman Munson (Graig Nettles, Willie  Randolph and Ron Guidry held the position after Munson and before  Mattingly).   Tony Horton is described as playing for Boston and being  victimized by Steve Hamilton's &quot;Folly Floater&quot; in Fenway Park  (Horton played for Cleveland and the incident happened at Yankee Stadium).    Don Mattingly's eight game HR streak is described as happening at a time  when the Yankees were &quot;going nowhere&quot; in 1987 (They were in first  place at the time).<br />This book is for completists only.   As a  comprehensive overview of the Steinbrenner era it is neither comprehensive,  nor is it much of an overview.	2000-06-21
US	53065306	RGGAHT9Y0D7VC	1882608216	892820453	Metro Ice, A Century of Hockey in Greater New York Starring: Rangers, Islanders, Devils, Americans, Rovers, Raiders, Ducks, St. Nicks	Books	5	8	10	N	N	The Ultimate New York Hockey Book!	Stan Fischler is probably the most knowledgable person on hockey in the country, and he certainly is in New York.   He has brought that knowledge together in a beautiful coffee table book that looks at the history of  hockey in New York.   It's all here.  Rangers, Islanders, Devils and also  those forgotten teams of yore like the Americans and the brief WHA  experiment of the 70s.   Many fascinating pictures of players, locales and  memorabilia that graphically illustrate how important hockey has been to  the cultural history of New York.   An absolute joy to read and a must for  both hockey fans and those interested in New York history too.	2000-06-13
US	53065306	R1FTQ8D8MRD3PB	0380010070	606151824	Advise and Consent (Advise and Consent, Book 1)	Books	5	81	101	N	N	Allen Drury-The Greatest Political Novelist Ever	Allen Drury, a former AP reporter wrote this novel in 1959 and it instantly became a bestseller and deserving winner of the Pulitzer Prize.   No one else since Drury has been able to capture political institutions as  they are to construct a compelling story.   In the end &quot;Advise And  Consent&quot; would spawn five sequels that proved equally compelling as  well.<br />Sadly, Allen Drury's stature as an author has always been  downplayed by critics because alone among authors, he was a political  conservative who often used his novels to make devastating indictments of  the liberal news media and liberal politicians.   And this is something  that most critics always use as an excuse to condemn Drury's writings   (there is never any similar litmus test applied by critics when it comes to  the rampant leftism of an author like Gore Vidal).   And yet, go through  Drury's &quot;Advise And Consent&quot; series and you will find more  insights into 1960s America than you will find from any other novelist.	2000-06-10
US	53065306	RIXDH8S0I0Q0Q	0842329285	858455094	The Indwelling: The Beast Takes Possession (Left Behind #7)	Books	1	10	24	N	N	Boring!	I want the record to note that I am a theologically conservative Christian who in all likelihood shares most of the beliefs of the authors.   Having said that, I find their entire &quot;Left Behind&quot; series to be the  worst written series of novels I have ever read in my life, and this latest  installment is in one word: BORING!  I mean, I can not for the life of me  understand why Messers. LaHaye and Jenkins feel so compelled to pad this  series out to another five books (it's already too long as it is) when we  as believers already know how this is going to turn out!  This book spent  400 pages of zero action and plot advancement, when a good writer would  have kept it moving quick!   <br />My patience is now exhausted with this  series.   I tolerate the audio drama versions of the books because I  appreciate quality radio drama, but these books are an insomniacs delight.    There is no purpose for even a True Believing Christian to read them any  longer as far as I'm concerned.	2000-05-24
US	53065306	R92UJGNB4A6T4	1573922269	262126969	Buyer's Guide to Fifty Years of TV on Video	Books	2	2	3	N	Y	Too Much Bias	This book ultimately has to be had because it at least provides assistance to collectors in knowing what shows are on tape.   Unfortunately the style of this book is atrocious.   It is almost impossible to thumb through at random because something convenient like an alphabetical heading at the top  of the page to key the reader as to where he is is not provided (this  especially hurts when one flips through and finds a whole page spread and  no sense of where one is at all!).   And frankly, Mr. Frank's personal  biases and assessments of various shows are just downright annoying and  guaranteed to offend more people than inform them because he doesn't have  the decency to offer a caveat at the beginning that others who don't share  his politics, tastes in music etc. should take what he says about a lot of  things with a grain of salt (I especially take umbrage to his  characterization of Battlestar Galactica as a &quot;bomb&quot;, saying not  one word about Zeffirelli's &quot;Jesus of Nazareth&quot; one of the most  important TV miniseries ever produced, and I wanted to scream shut up  everytime he opened his mouth about Richard Nixon and blacklisting).   A  simple reference guide with equal comment for each show in a neutral manner  in the tradition of Brooks/Marsh, McNeil etc. would have worked much  better.  Those books aren't popular because readers want to know what they  think of those shows, they just want the facts.   In the end, Frank comes  across as a man talking down to the reader and that defeats the whole point  of the project.   Even on those points where I do agree with him (I too  love &quot;Our World&quot; and the Goodson-Todman panel shows) I think it  was for the most part out of place.   <br />Since Mr. Frank (who I understand  has since passed away) sees fit though to talk about the errors of other  reference sources, I should feel compelled to correct a goodly number that  I found in just one afternoon after I bought the book.<br />1-In his review of  &quot;The Late Shift&quot; Frank reverses the actors who played David  Letterman and Jay Leno respectively.<br />2-John Brown did not leave the Burns  And Allen Show because he was blacklisted.   This occurred long after he  had left the show, and in fact Burns did make an on camera reference to his  departure as being because of &quot;other committments.&quot;   Also, Frank  is dead wrong in his description of the transition from Fred Clark to Larry  Keating in the Harry Morton part.  First, the episode is available in the  Columbia House series, and second it took place entirely with Keating.  <br />3-His summation of Burns And Allen shows on tape is woefully  incomplete.<br />4-NBC did not &quot;bring&quot; Steve Allen from New York to  Hollywood in 1960, Allen personally asked for the show to move there so he  could spend more time with his children from a previous marriage.	2000-03-14
US	53065306	R2VW7234C93F8S	1884956033	691873970	The Longest Trek: My Tour of the Galaxy	Books	5	23	36	N	N	Fascinating and Inspiring	I was very impressed by this memoir.  Grace Lee Whitney went through some terrible ordeals in her life and her account of how she eventually recovered from them and found spiritual peace as a Jewish Christian, while  somewhat unorthodox for me to fully comprehend at first, ranks as one of  the most inspiring accounts I've read this past year. Probably what  impressed me most however, was her  willingness to challenge the late Gene  Roddenberry's long-standing diatribes against religion and faith in general  by using herself as an example of what happens to one who decides its  better to reject God in the name of doing one's own thing and thinking it's  somehow \\"liberating\\" when ultimately it leads to the worst  consequences imaginable.    POSTSCRIPT (2005)  -It is time for me to update this review to specifically respond to the 2004 review of \\"Colonial Jedi\\", a militant atheist who lets his own views slam Grace for her spiritual rebirth.   Grace's defense of religious faith from the secular silliness of Gene Roddenberry needs no further defense from me, but his sarcastic \\"figure that one out\\" regarding the fact that Grace is now a Jewish Christian, is a demeaning insult to thousands of Messianic Jews who would characterize themselves in the same way Grace does.	2000-02-09
US	53065306	RYQCQCXP968EU	1568491506	988286697	Capable of Honor	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Amazingly Prescient	At first glance one might look at this tale of a bitterly divided political convention centered around America's Cold War commitment in a Third World country, and the ensuing violence as a conservative's reaction  to the 1968 Democratic Convention.   But what makes this novel so  remarkable is that it was written nearly two years *before* the spectacle  of Chicago in 1968.   Drury's blatant political conservatism has often  caused his works to be sadly overlooked for their prescience and insights  into American society given the prevailing bias of critics, but  &quot;Capable Of Honor&quot;, like the rest of the &quot;Advise And  Consent&quot; is a masterpiece of political novels.	2000-02-01
US	53065306	RW0Y9GZR3R20I	0200040073	714715766	Kiss it goodbye	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Fascinating Inside Look At The Last Years Of D.C. Baseball	If you enjoyed Mike Shropshire's &quot;Seasons In Hell&quot; then this book written a quarter century earlier will prove equally enjoyable if you can find a copy as it follows the story of the Washington Senators in their  last years before their move to Texas, where they remained one of the worst  teams in baseball.   Whitfield was the voice of the Senators in their last  years and his accounts of their destructive owner Robert Short will prove  illuminating to those who think that meddling, incompetent owners only  began with the likes of the 80s George Steinbrenner and Peter Angelos.   A  baseball classic that deserves to be back in print!	1999-12-10
US	53065306	R95VYDFPVI8GR	0380730235	182039274	Seasons in Hell	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great Look At A Bad Team From The 70s	Mike Shropshire's story of the ex-Washington Senators and their early years in Texas neatly picks up where Shelby Whitfield's &quot;Kiss It Goodbye&quot; left off in 1973.  For the Rangers, things only got worse  their first years in the Lone Star State, and then came Billy Martin who  provided a quick fix turnaround that soon fizzled out.  Along the way,  Shropshire provides a fascinating look at having to cover this team and the  pitfalls and pratfalls endured.	1999-12-10
US	53065306	R39IJ3451O3CZT	0399145885	842248212	Atlantis Found: A Dirk Pitt Adventure (Dirk Pitt Adventures)	Books	3	15	19	N	N	The Style Is Still There, But The Originality Isn't	I first became a fan of Clive Cussler's novels at twenty years ago when my interest in the Titanic led to my reading his classic &quot;Raise The Titanic&quot;, which was a magnificent novel and led to a fascination with  the author's books ever since.<br />However, since Cussler's golden age of  Pitt novels, which to me encompasses &quot;Raise The Titanic&quot; through  &quot;Cyclops&quot; I really think the novels have lost a bit of their  magic since then because ever since &quot;Dragon&quot;, Cussler has fallen  into an annoying habit of basically writing the same story with variations  on the setting, stakes etc.  &quot;Atlantis Found&quot; is no exception to  this because once again, the villain(s) is some major businessman and  his/her family who have been plotting their treachery for so long.   Strike  one because this is once again very unmemorable for me.   Then, strike two  in that the opening prologue set-up once again has very little to do with  the actual storyline in the final analysis and serves more as window  dressing.   This is a far cry from &quot;Raise The Titanic&quot;,  &quot;Vixen 03&quot; and &quot;Night Probe&quot; when the set-up tied into  the story and the payoff in a major way.   Instead, the story of the  neo-Nazis trying to build their &quot;Fourth Empire&quot; is something  served up to us out of the blue, along with a subplot about Nazi  &quot;sacred relics&quot; that is given to us by a convenient duex ex  machina character (a retired Nazi admiral) who is there to dispense his  info and then disappears completely.  <br />I also regret to see that Cussler  no longer acknowledges his previous Pitt stories in a new novel simply  because real history caught up with the events of the Golden Age of Pitt.    As late as &quot;Cyclops&quot; it was still not uncommon to see a reference  to Pitt having raised the Titanic, or to the aftereffects of the North  Atlantic Treaty of &quot;Night Probe.&quot;  Today, we're lucky if we see  one obliquereference to the last Pitt novel and only when Cussler  describes the train in Pitt's collection of cars is there a faint echo of  &quot;Night Probe.&quot;  (Yet oddly enough Cussler still refers to Pitt  and Giordino as having served in Vietnam, yet he doesn't seem to realize  that would have to make them in their mid to late 50s at least by this  point!)  The end result is that Pitt has become much too formulaic for my  tastes.  The Cussler style of describing interesting locales and making the  storyline interesting is still there, but I fear the Golden Age of Pitt has  passed us by now (and Clive, will you please stop with those annoying  cameos of yours!  Enough!)	1999-12-08
US	53065306	R1AG73OEH67DU8	0025582151	353985652	No Medals for Trying: A Week in the Life of a Pro Football Team	Books	5	6	6	N	N	One Of The Best Football Books Ever Written!	Just as he did in his wonderful book about Game of the 1986 NLCS between the Mets and the Astros, Jerry Izenberg of the Newark Star-Ledger takes the reader inside for an up close look at all the factors leading up to a  single game.   This time, the game is just the preparation for a regular  season NFL game in 1989 between the New York Giants and Philadelphia  Eagles, a game that the Giants didn't even win, but what makes this book so  engrossing is that it is the only book written by a sportswriter up to this  point that takes an in-depth look at the mind of Coach Bill Parcells during  his Giants glory days, and what made the Giants of the late 1980s so  special.   The reader is given a front row seat to the life of a team in  the week leading up to a game, and even though the game wasn't won, you  come away understanding why Parcells was still able to win another Super  Bowl one year later.	1999-11-27
US	53065306	RR0CK6RNDVX8O	0878332227	416807658	Home of the Game: The Story of Camden Yards	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Angelos Apologism Mars This!	The story of the construction of Camden Yards is well-told and there are also some good accounts of Baltimore Oriole history since the park opened, particularly the controversy surrounding Cito Gaston's refusal to let Mike  Mussina pitch during the 1993 All Star Game.<br />I was very surprised though  to discover as I read, that author Loverro is the biggest apologist for  Oriole owner Peter Angleos on the face of the earth.  Every one of  Angelos's actions that have helped turn the Orioles into a lousy team today  are defended at every turn for all intents and purposes.  I really can not  figure out Loverro's defense of Angelos overriding GM Pat Gillick who  wanted to trade Bobby Bonilla and David Wells during the 96 season.  Sure,  Baltimore got to an ALCS where they got outclassed by a superior Yankee  team, but what Loverro fails to grasp is that the Orioles mortgaged their  future way too much in going for a postseason where they had little chance  of going all the way.<br />I would love to see an Orioles beat reporter one  day write a defninitve history of the Angelos years, one that recognizes  how Angelos today acts more like George Steinbrenner than Steinbrenner  himself.  This book unfortunately, despite its virtues in other areas,  isn't it.	1999-11-03
US	53065306	R33C6VMJ47MGQZ	0684800888	722045239	Whatever Happened to the Hall of Fame	Books	4	5	10	N	N	Hard To Ignore, If Not Always Right	I'll say for this Mr. James, he knows how to put his numbers together.  And though I do not agree with some of his conclusions, this book is a  success in that it will force one to think about the issue of HOF  selection.<br />Where James fails though, in particularly with regard to Phil  Rizzuto is that he fails to take into account that a player who's numbers  might be par to others not in the HOF merit induction if one also makes  significant contributions to the game after his playing career.  As a  shortstop alone do Rizzuto's stats merit induction?  You can argue about  that and say maybe not.  But when you factor in what Rizzuto added  afterwards in 40 years as an institution in the Yankee broadcasting booth,  you realize how much more he contributed to the game.  Ditto Richie  Ashburn.  As a first baseman Gil Hodges might not have been HOF, but factor  in managing the Mets to a championship *in addition* to his playing career  and his induction should have been automatic long ago.  That type of above  average player who serves the game beyond his playing career deserves merit  for reasons that go beyond James' comparative stats, and I think that  represents the book's one true flaw.  Also, he spends no time discussing  the merits of HOF selection for managers, executives and umpires which I  think also should have been addressed.	1999-10-30
US	53065306	R1ON6V5Y80UZGE	0965384683	600603745	If They Don't Win It's a Shame: The Year the Marlins Bought the World Series	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Too Much Sarcasm	As an insider account of a team's championship season, particularly of a team that hard to believe won the Series just two years ago but seems more like a thousand years ago given what's happened to the Marlins since, this  book is a must.  Unfortunately, Dave Rosenbaum in my opinion goes way too  far with his mean-spirited sarcasm and desire to denigrate everything the  97 Marlins accomplished.  Sure, they bought a championship quickly in the  hopes of a new stadium payoff which didn't come, and sure there's a lot of  unpleasant stuff that take place in the locker room.  But at the same time,  you do have to give credit to Jim Leyland and his team for being able to  win it all that year and I think it's unfair to denigrate that as Rosenbaum  does merely in light of what happened to the team afterwards.  Considering  how the Baltimore Orioles, Los Angeles Dodgers and Anaheim Angels have  tried to duplicate what the Marlins did through the same approach and  failed miserably you have to in my opinion still respect the accomplishment  in spite of the warts that Rosenbaum uncovers along the way.  In my  opinion, he simply doesn't do enough of that.	1999-10-22
US	53065306	R21GY4ZINGXHQV	0685605760	690573070	Tv's Sheena Irish McCalla	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Great!	Messers. Black and Ferret have done a wondeful job of mixing the biography of Irish McCalla, probably one of the most beautiful women who ever lived, and the character of Sheena in a fun, photo-filled book that has everything  a fan of the jungle genre could ask for.  There are plenty of photos of  Irish from her pin-up days, as well as when she played Sheena, inside  articles on the production of the series, an episode guide, color reprints  of two classic Sheena comics stories and an original comic story where  Irish herself gets to become a real jungle queen.  Great fun and a must  have for TV/comics nostalgia buffs.	1999-10-09
US	53065306	R1BZLGRV4Q9TQ4	0394555082	642527170	Dutch: A Memoir of Ronald Reagan	Books	1	0	1	N	N	Fourteen Years For THIS?	Let's forget about the argument over how this book ultimately sees Reagan the man and the president. I consider myself a great admirer of Ronald Reagan and that means I have seen a lot of terrible things written about  him over the years by a lot of Reagan haters who have never been able to  accept the greatness of his legacy, especially the fact that the man who  was supposedly going to plunge us into war, singlehandedly won the Cold  War.  Edmund Morris, I will freely concede at the outset does not fall into  this category as he does recognize this facet of the legacy.<br />Why then is  this the worst historical biography I have ever read, even if it doesn't  bash Reagan the president on his accomplishments?  Because it is simply  unprofessionally written, unprofessionally presented, and is so muddled and  addled that I couldn't get into it all!  All this fictionalizing to inject  himself, the stupid movie script presentations of certain segments of  Reagan's life.  It got to a point where I couldn't for the life of me  figure out what the heck was going on here.  And while all these gimmicks  are being interjected all kinds of fascinating things of Reagan's life are  strangely missing.  Indeed, only a Reagan expert would have the faintest  idea of what Morris is talking about when he glosses over so quickly things  like the entire 1980 campaign, or the circumstances of how Reagan came to  deliver his 1964 speech on behalf of Barry Goldwater.  Instead of just  giving us the facts, Morris feels he has to dazzle us with this new style  of writing history.  If this is what we're in for, then God help us  all.<br />For years I had waited for this book with anticipation.  Six years  ago, Morris offered a hint of a potentially great book when he wrote an  article for the American Spectator about the tragic story of Christina  Reagan, the child born to Reagan and Jane Wyman that lived only several  days.  In that article, Morris wrote like a professional historian,  offering the challenging suggestion that this sad incident accounted for  the depth of Reagan's pro-life position on abortion.  But in  &quot;Dutch&quot;, while Morris has strangely dedicated the book to  Christina, he has totally omitted the insight of his earlier article,  instead consigning the sad event to a passage of his bizarre  &quot;script&quot; in which the Reagan-Wyman marriage ends without any  meaningful analysis.<br />This book is a travesty irregardless of how one  ultimately feels about Ronald Reagan.  I sincerely hope that if Edmund  Morris wishes to regain his credibility as a scholar, he will see to it  that this experimental approach to writing history won't start a trend with  himself, let alone the rest of the historical profession.	1999-10-03
US	53065306	R1B86R98M2LRAX	1879505096	653967962	The Twilight Zone Companion	Books	4	45	51	N	N	Great Reference Guide But Pompous Commentary	I can not echo the five star reviews of this book, because while this book is ultimately a fascinating look at a great show with lots of wonderful information, I have to say something about Zircee's evaluation style.  He  writes in a very pompous fashion in which his own subjective, personal  biases about each episiosde are meant to be taken as the Gospel Truth.   This results in some fine episodes (&quot;Escape Clause&quot;) getting  short-shrift while other episodes get loads of attention.  What is really  pompous of Zircee though is when he suddenly starts taking Serling to task  for writing unflattering depictions of Nikita Khruschev in &quot;Nothing  But The Truth&quot; and Fidel Castro in &quot;The Mirror.&quot;  Indeed, I  was ready to throw my copy across the room when I saw this indignant  comment of Zircee's that Serling &quot;did Castro a disservice&quot; in  &quot;The Mirror.&quot;  Really, as though murdering his subjects and  forcing the survivors to live in the world's last Stalinist dictatorship  didn't already do him a disservice.  Get real, Marc.  Get real.	1999-09-06
US	53065306	RYOY5GD3TPE3N	0399144986	536544726	Resurrection Day	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Interesting Premise, Predictable Plot	This novel is an interesting concept, but is done in by a completely predictable climax that you can smell before the book is barely a third over because once again,  JFK hagiography must ultimately rule the day.  All one has to do is  substitute the name of Curtis LeMay for the novel's &quot;Ramsay  Curtis&quot; and you know right away how things have to turn out.  I have  seen this cliche hashed out time and again in other alternate history  novels like &quot;Promises Kept&quot; in which no one can ever point to any  flaw in the leadership of JFK, or that he would have been the savior of  America and never done any wrong, and the end result is still utterly banal  and predictable.	1999-07-27
US	53065306	RZ3IE04C3NVXU	0425168107	397234064	The Titanic Murders	Books	2	36	39	N	N	Excellent Read, But.....	I really don't have any qualms with the execution of this story. The concept of having mystery writer Jacques Futrelle solve a murder aboard the Titanic before he himself met with death before the ship sank is a good one, and I have to also commend Collins for getting the atmosphere of the Titanic down to a T.<br />However, I have to confess I was deeply distressed to discover that the two villains of this piece, John Crafton and Hugh Rood, were not made up names used for the occasion but were in fact the names of very real people who were lost aboard the Titanic, and whose identities were appropriated by Mr. Collins solely because he could find nothing about them. This is something that I find distasteful. The fact that not much is known about Mr. Rood or Mr. Crafton is not a valid reason for turning them into the figures of convenience for Mr. Collins's story, and I think he would not have dampened the authentic feel of the story by simply using made up names for the occasion. I find it incredible that Mr. Collins did not bother to contact anyone connected with the Titanic Historical Society or Titanic International, where the scholars there know practically everything about every passenger who sailed aboard the ship. Indeed, the book &quot;Titanic: The Exhibition&quot; does mention that Mr. Crafton came from Roachdale, IN while Mr. Rood was from Seattle. No doubt, there were people who grieved for them as surely as there were people who grieved for the more famous people like the hero, Jacques Futrelle. Mr. Collins may take comfort that he bothered to not dig deep enough about these two men to find out if he were offending anyone, but I find his claim of respect for Titanic's victims to be very hollow when he's not willing to give them the same respect. And that is why I cannot ultimately endorse the book even though it is a brilliant piece of mystery writing.<br />Since I first wrote this review some two years ago, I have decided that my disgust over Mr. Collins' inexcusable use of Messers. Crafton and Rood as his villains forces me to now lower my overall rating of the book. Additional information on Crafton and Rood, which Collins says he wasn't able to find over the course of his research, came to me after just one inquiry to a former officer of the Titanic Historical Society.<br />&quot;John Crafton was 59 years old, was born and reared in Indiana and lived in Roachdale, IN in 1912. He was a 'prominent stone promoter of the Oolitic district' (presumably a promoter of the use of stone in building projects.) He had a wife and son and for many years was connected with the 'Monon road.' Mr. Crafton went to Europe on a pleasure trip in February of 1912 and booked<BR>his return passage on the Titanic.<br />&quot;Mr. and Mrs. Hugh Rood made their home in Seattle, where Mr. Rood was vice president of the Pacific Creosotin Company. They were in Paris together when Mr. Rood booked a single passage on the Titanic for a business trip to New York. (Mrs. Rood and her maid were to follow on another vessel.) After the disaster, Mrs. Rood tried in vain to find any survivors who recalled seeing<BR>her husband on board the Titanic.&quot;<br />Shame on &quot;The Titanic Murders&quot; for taking the names of these two men and transforming them into rapists and blackmailers just for the sake of a fictional story because the author didn't do the necessary research.	1999-07-12
US	53065306	R2NSMFV4AP4BJA	1567030335	690394527	Wild, High, and Tight: The Life and Death of Billy Martin	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Five stars for historical details; One star for analysis	Compard to David Faulkner's bio on Martin, this one by Golenbock has more insider details about Martin's life that make it the more interesting read.  What does it in, unfortunately is Golenbock's peculiar analysis.  Like so  many people who like to ultimately elevate Billy the man higher than he  deserves, more time is spent blaming George Steinbrenner for all of Billy's  problems off the field.  And it soon gets to the point where Golenbock  actually performs what was once the impossible and makes you think he's too  harsh on Steinbrenner.  The bottom line is that Billy Martin, unlike his  friend Mickey Mantle, never came to terms with what drinking and carousing  could do to his life and for that, he had only himself to blame for not  checking into the Betty Ford Clinic like Mantle did.  Billy kept drinking  not because of George Steinbrenner, but because of who he was, and that was  a person with no morals whatsoever.	1999-07-07
