US	53060700	RIDD58YRH1CM4	0387986391	67347710	An Introduction to Wavelets Through Linear Algebra (Undergraduate Texts in Mathematics)	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Excellent introduction.	Wavelet theory is one of the newest branches of mathematics, originally  emerged from the broader harmonic analysis, but now making its own way  because of its multiple applications.<br />There are several possible  approaches to the subject, but maybe this one is both the easiest and the  best one. Modern analysis relies more and more on operator theory (linear  algebra in infinite-dimensional spaces) so this approach fits nicely in the  overall framework of modern mathematics.<br />This kind of introductory  expositions are essential for a subject to get widespread, and this one  really deserves full attention because by using these kind of techniques we  are now able to solve better a lot of problems involving pulses, signals,  oscillations, etc. Right, this is achieved normally using Fourier methods,  but mathematics has improved a lot since the times of Fourier, and now we  know that classical Fourier analysis is not always suitable for our  particular needs. Wavelet analysis provides a means for constructing a  specific Fourier-like method to solve our problem according to its  intrinsic nature.<br />Contents: Prologue: Compression of the FBI Fingerprint  Files; Background: Complex Numbers and Linear Algebra; The Discrete Fourier  Transform; Wavelets on Z_N; Wavelets on Z; Wavelets on R; Wavelets and  Differential Equations.<br />Originally intended for undergrads, but useful as  a more advanced reference. Includes full explanations and lots of  excercises. Extensive bibliography. Nice hardbound (as usual in Springer).	2000-08-04
US	53060700	R11XTEDMIKBLYA	3540647678	298957287	Elements of the History of Mathematics	Books	3	12	16	N	N	Good source, but rather incomplete.	I really expected more from such a title and such an author (group of authors as a matter of fact). The book does not cover the history of all important branches of modern mathematics, and those included are not  treated in a complete manner. Their major lacks occur in 20th century  mathematics. There's a lot of topics and names missing, for example:  algebraic geometry, coding theory, dynamical systems, harmonic analysis,  complex analysis, multidimensional complex analysis, hypercomplex analysis,  approximation theory,... ; Samuel Eilenberg, Norman Steenrod, Salomon  Lefschetz, Elias Stein, Alberto Calderón, Peter Lax, Abraham Besicovitch,  Michael Atiyah, Wendell Fleming, Witold Hurewicz...<br />Eventhough the  Bourbaki group has made a great effort to synthesize and standarize a lot  of branches of modern mathematics the actual product of their work (the  Elements of Mathematics, the Fascicules of Results, etc.) may well become  obsolete and forgotten because of their limited perspective. Nevertheless,  the book contains some useful data that will prove valuable to those  interested in mathematics' history, above all, the first essay on the  foundations of mathematics.<br />Contents: Foundations of Mathematics, Logic,  Set Theory; Notation, Combinatorial Analysis; The Evolution of Algebra;  Linear Algebra and Multilinear Algebra; Polynomials and Commutative Fields;  Divisibility, Ordered Fields; Commutative Algebra, Algebraic Number Theory;  Non-Commutative Algebra; Quadratic Forms, Elementary Geometry; Topological  Spaces; Uniform Spaces; Real Numbers; Exponentials and Logarithms;  n-Dimensional Spaces; Complex Numbers, Measurement of Angles; Metric  Spaces; Infinitesimal Calculus; Asymptotic Expansions; The Gamma Function;  Function Spaces; Topological Vector Spaces; Integration in Locally Compact  Spaces; Haar Measure, Convolution; Integration in Non-Locally Compact  Spaces; Lie Groups and Lie Algebras; Groups Generated by Reflections; Root  Systems.<br />Extensive references (not common in Bourbaki writings); nice  softbound.	2000-07-31
US	53060700	R2C04YCNNSQA21	0201002884	591444919	Mathematical Analysis, Second Edition	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Complete, focused, and well-written.	This book constitutes one of the best expositions of multidimensional calculus I've ever read. I'm writing my Ph.D. dissertation on hypercomplex analysis and it is still useful for me! The author shows his high skills by  presenting a well-organized text with the right amount of abstraction and  rigor, as required in modern teaching. The topics covered are more than  enough for undergraduate courses and the exercises have the right level of  difficulty.<br />I find this book suitable for most advanced calculus courses.  It even includes some material on elementary complex analysis.<br />Its  contents are: Real and Comlex Number Systems; Fundamental Notions of Set  Theory; Elements of Point-Set Theory; The Concepts of Limit and Continuity;  Differentiation of Real-Valued Functions; Differentiation of Functions of  Several Variables; Applications of Partial Differentiation; Functions of  Bounded Variation, Rectifiable Curves, and Connected Sets;  Riemann-Stieltjes Integration Theory; Multiple Integrals and Line  Integrals; Vector Analysis; Infinite Series and Products; Sequences of  Functions; Improper Riemann-Stieltjes Integrals; Fourier Series and Fourier  Integrals; Cauchy's Theorem and Calculus of Residues.<br />The lists of  references for each chapter are somewhat short and could be updated, but  they're O.K. The only one complaint I have is the price.	2000-07-31
US	53060700	R1LHGJLB5PN21R	0486406830	54024474	Elements of the Theory of Functions and Functional Analysis (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	5	78	85	N	N	Still one of the finest.	This highly regarded book came out from the notes of Andrei Kolmogorov's lectures given at Moscow's Lomonosov University in the 1940's, and it still stands as one of the best introductions to real analysis available.<br />The  authors introduce step by step all the key concepts needed to get a  thorough understanding of the subject and proceed all the way long from set  theory to Fredholm integral equations.<br />This book is appreciated not only  because the topics it includes but mostly because of the insight with which  it was written. It is a pleasure to find through every page of the book the  great genious of Kolmogorov who not only mastered most areas of mathematics  but who also had an almost unparalleled understanding of what the trends of  future mathematics would be.<br />The contents are: Elements of Set Theory;  Metric and Topological Spaces; Normed and Topological Linear Spaces; Linear  Functionals and Linear Operators; Elements of Differential Calculus in  Linear Spaces; Measure, Measurable Functions, Integral; Indefinite Lebesgue  Integral, Differentiation Theory; Spaces of Summable Functions;  Trigonometric Series, Fourier Transformation; Linear Integral  Equations.<br />Full motivation and detailed explanation for each topic. Short  bibliography, but that is justified by the fact that the authors themselves  were involved in the development of the topics covered.<br />Conclusion: a  must-have text for every mathematician or math student.	2000-07-28
US	53060700	R1U3FTA6R655N6	019506643X	504883581	Quaternionic Quantum Mechanics and Quantum Fields (International Series of Monographs on Physics)	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Does not take full advantage of quaternionic power.	This book is a good example of what can be done with the quaternionic formalism to improve some treatments of theoretical physics. However, it is not more than a formal improvement, of course taking advantadge of the  arithmetical properties of quaternions and their ability to represent space  rotations and other transformations needed in physics, for the author  misses the opportunity of using the full power of quaternions by ignoring  completely quaternionic ANALYSIS. He even says that this kind of analysis  is not useful for physics. He obvioulsly has not read enough on the  subject.<br />The book is useful to learn how to REPRESENT problems by means  of quaternions, but to SOLVE them you need the analysis, a feature this  book lacks.<br />Contents: Introduction; General Framework of Quaternionic  Quantum Mechanics; Further General Results in Quaternionic Quantum  Mechanics; One-Particle Quantum Mechanics - General Formalism; Stationary  State Methods and Phase Methods; Scattering Theory and Bound States;  Methods for Time Development; Single-Channel Time-Dependent Formal  Scattering Theory; Multiparticle and Multichannel Methods; Further  Multiparticle Topics; Relativistic Single-Particle Wave Equations: Spin-0  and Spin-1/2; More on Relativistic Wave Equations: The Spin-1 Gauge  Potential, Lagrangian Formulations, and the Poincar&eacute; Group; Quaternionic  Quantum Field Theory; Outlook; 2 Appendices.<br />Motivates each topic though  a previous knowledge of quantum mechanics is required. Extensive list of  references. Nice printing quality and clothbound.	2000-07-24
US	53060700	R122RGL7HYXMRJ	0821820702	966988980	Mathematics: Frontiers and Perspectives	Books	1	37	53	N	N	Dissapointing.	Judging from the publisher and the editors I expected to get a really outstanding book, but while reading it I got terribly dissapointed.<br />This book, with which the International Mathematical Union tried to emulate the  famous list of problems proposed by David Hilbert in 1900, together with  his description of the state of mathematics those days, totally fails to  survey the state of this science in the year 2000 and does even less to  present a comprehensive list of important problems in all branches of  mathematics that should be solved in the 21st century.<br />The editors - all  of them highly respected and renowned mathematicians - didn't make a strong  effort to collect the opinion of several other high-ranked colleagues;  instead they asked their buddies and pupils for contribution. I really  would like to read something about the topic from Elias Stein, Steven  Krantz, or Serge Lang, to name just a few. Also, the editors could have  done something to reach some kind of agreement among the contributors;  while some pose some problems of their own interest others claim that even  trying to imitate Hilbert is nonsense. Some dissert on the interaction  between mathematics and physics (there's even one who claims that  mathematics is a part of physics) but almost none pays attention to the  newer ineractions between mathematics and other disciplines. It seems that  they haven't realized that nowadays most of the motivation for difficult  and interesting problems comes from such areas as economics,  communications, military and computer science. Its surprising that almost  all of the contributors still think that theoretical physics is the main  supplier of mathematical problems.<br />And the worst: they didn't cover all  the branches of mathematics (true, it's a difficult task, but the AMS and  the IMU should be capable of doing that). There's nothing said about  operator theory, hypercomplex analysis, coding theory, commutative algebra,  wavelet analysis, and many other disciplines. Their major lack is applied  mathematics, I mean, probability, statistics, reliability, simulation,  operations research, etc. Most of the contributors blame Bourbaki for  having gone away from the actual sources of mathematical knowledge, but  they remain in the Bourbaki setting themselves!<br />Conclsion: better spend  your money in fine and focused reflections about mathematics and  mathematicians, like Hardy's, Polya's, Wiener's, von Neumann's, and even  Bourbaki's.	2000-07-18
US	53060700	R32F4I5GFOXXI8	0387533400	943330807	Heat Kernels and Dirac Operators (Grundlehren Der Mathematischen Wissenschaften)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Highly advanced treatise on global analysis.	Dirac operators on Riemannian manifolds are of fundamental importance in differential geometry: they occur in situations such as Hodge theory, gauge theory, and geometric quantization.<br />The book is based on a simple  principle: Dirac operators are a quantization of the theory of connections,  and the supertrace of the heat kernel of the square of a Dirac operator is  the quantization of the Chern character of the corresponding connection.  From this point of view, the index theorem for Dirac operators is a  statement about the relationship between the heat kernel of the square of a  Dirac operator and the Chern character of the associated connection. This  relationship holds at the level of differential forms and not just in  cohomology, and leads to think of index theory and heat kernels as a  quantization of Chern-Weil theory. The importance of the heat kernel is  that it interpolates between the identity operator and the projection onto  the kernel of the Dirac operator. However, the authors study the heat  kernel, and more particularly its restriction to the diagonal, in its own  right, and not only as a tool in understanding the kernel of the Dirac  operator.<br />The authors attempt to express allof their constructions in  such a way that they generalize easily to the equivariant setting, in which  a compact Lie group acts on the manifold and leaves the Dirac operator  invariant. They consider the most general type of Dirac operators,  associated to a Clifford module over a manifold, to avoid restricting to  manifolds with spin connections. They also work within Quillen's theory of  superconnections.<br />The book is not necessarily meant to be read  sequentially, and consists of four groups of chapters: (1) Chapters 1 and  7, the former giving various preliminary results in differential geometry  and the latter on equivariant differential forms; they do not depend on any  other chapters. (2) Chapters 2, 3, and 4 introduce the main ideas of the  book, andtake the reader through the main properties of Dirac operators,  culminating in the local index theorem. (3) Chapters 5, 6, and 8 are on the  equivariant index theorem, and may be read after the first four chapters,  although Chapter 7 is needed in Chapter 8. (4) Chapters 9 and 10 are on the  family index theorem, and can be read after the first four chapters, except  sections 9.4 and 10.7 which have Chapter 8 as a prerequisite.<br />The book is  intended for researchers and advanced graduate students; you need a very  strong background in differntial geometry, algebraic topology, harmonic  analysis, and hypercomplex analysis to read it. The style is definitely  French, so if you have had trouble with Bourbaki be prepared. The list of  references is adequately long. Very nice printing and binding quality.	2000-07-14
US	53060700	R3UJLGI6PO6K27	079230229X	333058550	Clifford Algebra and Spinor-Valued Functions: A Function Theory for the Dirac Operator (Mathematics and Its Applications)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Advanced encyclopedic treatise on hypercomplex analysis.	This thick volume constitutes an exhaustive  catalogue of the achievements and main interests of the regarded Belgian team working on hypercomplex analysis.<br />The book is not intended for begineers; you must read their  previous monograph &quot;Clifford Analysis&quot; (by Brackx, Delanghe, and  Sommen) or any of the other texts at the same level which are available.  Also, you must have had a previous acquaintance with spinor geometry,  algebraic topology, and differential geometry (Lie algebras), not to  mention real, complex, and functional analysis. The style is completely  that of a research monograph, though it can be used as a reference in  graduate-level courses.<br />Its contents are: Clifford Algebras over Lower  Dimensional Euclidean Spaces; Clifford Algebras and Spinor Spaces;  Monogenic Functions; Special Functions and Methods; Monogenic Differential  Forms and Residues; Clifford Analysis and the Penrose Transform; 3  appendices. Includes companion diskette with REDUCE software.<br />The  bibliography is adequately extensive, though the subject index is rather  short.	2000-07-11
US	53060700	R2620HVCO0VIG6	0582297419	809188203	Integral Representations For Spatial Models of Mathematical Physics (Research Notes in Mathematics Series, Volume 351)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A new metaharmonic (Helmholtz) hypercomplex function theory.	This book contains the full development of a new kind of function theory  that is closely connected with several interesting physical problems. This  new theory is that generated by the metaharmonic generalized Dirac  (Moisil-Theodorescu) operator, which factorizes the Helmholtz operator, and  which leads to a very nice and powerful eight-dimensional generalization of  classical complex analysis. The authors' approach is to stress the  importance of integral representations to solve boundary value problems and  then to apply these tools to handle some physical problems.<br />The contents  are: Introduction and Some Remarks on Generalizations of Complex Analysis;  Alpha-holomorphic Function Theory; Electrodynamical Models; Massive Spinor  Fields; Hypercomplex Factorization, Systems of Non-linear Partial  Differential Equations Generated by Fueter-type Operators; 4  appendices.<br />Intended mostly for researchers, but suitable for  graduate-level courses. Includes lots of results found only in research  papers, and some of them appear proved here for the first time.<br />Includes  an extensive list of references. Just be careful with some typos.<br />If you  are interested in hypercomplex analysis read also the books by Brackx et  al, Delanghe et al, and Guerlebek &amp; Sproessig.<br />Please take a look at  the rest of my reviews. Thank you.	2000-07-10
US	53060700	R2EIRJHVO8H0LF	0883850311	497858743	A Panorama of Harmonic Analysis (Carus Mathematical Monographs)	Books	5	12	17	N	N	Nice guide for students and newcomers.	This book is not a textbook on harmonic analysis; it is an essay on how this important discipline has evolved and what are its main results and applications.<br />I find this book to be an excellent companion text because  it includes a lot of subtle explanations that the usual textbooks lack. It  is suitable also for non-mathematicians willing to get a fast introductory  survey of the theory.<br />Its contents are: Overview of Measure Theory and  Functional Analysis; Fourier Series Basics; The Fourier Transform; Multiple  Fourier Series; Spherical Harmonics; Fractional Integrals, Singular  Integrals, and Hardy Spaces; Modern Theories of Integral Operators;  Wavelets; A Retrospective; 9 appendices.<br />Full of interesting comments and  historical anecdotes. Extensive Bibliography.<br />Please take a look at the  rest of my reviews.	2000-07-05
US	53060700	R3LLPO1TWBDVL6	0387159673	486549904	Singular Integral Operators (English and German Edition)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Complete development of the theory of singular integrals.	The next step after Vekua's, Muskhelishvili's and Gakhov's treatises on singular integrals and its applications is this thick encyclopedic volume.<br />Including most of the topics covered in the above-mentioned  texts, the authors go further to present all of the important results plus  some new ones in a unified way.<br />Contents: Basic Facts from Functional  Analysis; The One-dimensional Singular Integral; One-dimensional Singular  Integral Equations with Continuous Coefficients on Closed Curves;  One-dimensional Singular Integral Equations with Discontinuous  Coefficients; Systems of One-dimensional Singular Equations;  One-dimensional Singular Equations with Degenerate Symbol; Some Problems  Leading to Singular Integral Equations; Some Further Subsidiaries; Singular  Integrals of Higher Dimensions in Spaces with a Uniform Metric; The Symbol  of Higher Dimensional Singular Integral Operators; Singular Integral  Operators in Spaces with Integral Metric; Multidimensional Singular  Integral Equations; Singular Equations on Smooth Manifolds without  Boundary; Systems of Multidimensional Singular Equations; The Localization  Principle, Singular Operators on Manifolds with Boundary; Mutidimensional  Singular Equations with Degenerate Symbol; Methods for the Approximate  Solution of One-dimensional Singular Integral Equations; Approximate  Solution of Multidimensional Singular Integral Equations. References.<br />The  book is intended for experts but most parts could (and should) be covered  in graduate courses.<br />Please take a look at the rest of my reviews.	2000-07-05
US	53060700	R1IHIR0D5EMUH8	3540606564	303388825	Geometric Measure Theory (Classics in Mathematics)	Books	5	33	35	N	N	The authoritative reference in the field.	First published in 1969 and initially intended as a reference for mature mathematicians and as a textbook for able students, this remarkable book constitutes the ultimate treatise on the subject still nowadays.<br />It is  written in an &quot;economical&quot; style, which means that you may well  spend several hours in reading one single page (and there are 654 of  them!). As a matter of fact, the author himself states in the preface that  just chapter 2 is enough for a one-year graduate course.<br />The contents  are: 1 Grassmann Algebra. 2 General Measure Theory: Measures and measurable  sets; Borel and Suslin sets; measurable functions; Lebesgue integration;  linear functionals; product measures; invariant measures; covering  theorems; derivates; Caratheodory's construction. 3 Rectifiability:  Differentials and tangents; area and coarea of Lipschitzian maps; structure  theory. 4 Homological Integration Theory: Differential forms and currents;  deformations and compactness; slicing; homology groups; normal currents of  dimension n in R^n. 5 Applicatios to the Calculus of Variations: Integrands  and minimizing currents; regularity of solutions of certain differential  equations; excess and smoothness; further results on area-minimizing  currents.<br />Each chapter could have been published as a separate monograph  for they are +100 pages long!<br />To read this book you must have a solid  background in analysis, topology, differential geometry, and algebra, plus  having mastered some introductory text on the subject, like Morgan's.  Eventhough it is hard, the effort is worth it because it shows how to  relate some concepts of analysis by means of algebraic or topological  techniques.<br />Includes extensive references though it lacks some motivation  and explanations.<br />Please take a look at the rest of my reviews (just  click on my name above).	2000-06-26
US	53060700	R1JWN7P8EQ8ONK	3540663770	617585005	Spacetime: Foundations of General Relativity and Differential Geometry (Lecture Notes in Physics Monographs)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Differential geometry, ralativity, and cosmology together.	This book deals with the physical justification of the mathematical framework involved in the modern and highly sophisticated theories of the structure of the universe.<br />The book seems to have been written for  working physicists and mathematicians, and maybe for graduate students, but  I think most of the material of the first 5 chapters could find a place in  undergraduate curricula.<br />There are some other regarded texts treating  this same subjects, but this one attempts to ensure that the mathematical  description mirrors the physical concepts involved, so this approach also  leads to a careful treatment of the structural aspects of  mathematics.<br />The contents are: Local Theory of Space and Time; Analysis  on Manifolds; Space and Time from a Global Point of View; Pseudo-Riemannian  Manifolds; General Relativity; Robertson-Walker Cosmology; Spherical  Symmetry; Causality; Singularity Theorems.<br />Includes an extensive list of  references and a system of guidelines to read the book, because the author  states that it is not meant to be read in the same order as it is  written.<br />Very useful as a reference.<br />Please take a look at the rest of  my reviews (just click on my name above).	2000-06-22
US	53060700	R172EGA5RY6CV	0387978860	294234264	Complex Analysis (Graduate Texts in Mathematics)	Books	3	21	40	N	N	Not enough for getting a complete perspective.	My comment refers to the third edition of this book, but I don't think the fourth could be much better.<br />First of all, this title shouldn't be included in the &quot;Graduate Texts in Mathematics&quot; series because  the material it covers is covered in introductory undergraduate courses.  Second, eventhough the author made a great effort to include as much topics  as he could, the treatment of most of them is highly old-fashioned. I mean,  he pays no attention to the most recent and elegant refinements of the  basic theory, so the student is not immediately able to understand the real  important ideas behind the subject. For example, nowadays the proof of the  Cauchy integral formula is presented as a more ar less easy corollary of  the general Stokes theorem. The Cauchy integral theorem is also obtained  easily following the same fashion. Incredibly, the author explores this  line in one appendix, but not well done, and apparently he doesn't realize  that there is the key idea.<br />Also, keeping in mind that holomorphic  functions are harmonic, most of the important results for holomorphic  functions should follow at once from the corresponding ones for harmonic  functions, but this old-fashioned texts don't take this remarkable  important feature of complex analysis into account, making the treatment  innecessarily complicated and leading the student to misunderstand both  complex and harmonic analysis. Eventhough the book includes a whole chapter  on harmonic functions, the author doesn't use their power as he  should.<br />I'm afraid there are few famous introductory texts that I would  suggest for first-timers. The best of them is Markushevitch, unfortunately  out of print.<br />There is also another serious drawback: The author pays no  attention at all to boundary value problems and therefore to the  Cauchy-type integral, maybe the most important tool of complex analysis.  The Hilbert transform is also not present.<br />If you have the opportunity  takea look at Muskhelishvili's &quot;Singular Integral Equations&quot; and  Gakhov's &quot;Boundary Value Problems&quot; and then you will understand  my point.<br />Lang's book could be used as a companion text and as a  reference for introductory courses. It's got some interestig  excercises.<br />Its contents are: Complex Nubers and Functions; Power Series;  Cauchy's Theorem, First Part; Winding Numbers and Cauchy's Theorem;  Applications of Cauchy's Integral Formula; Calculus of Residues; Conformal  Mappings; Harmonic Functions; Schwartz Reflection; The Riemann Mapping  Theorem; Analytic Continuation Along Curves; Applications of the Maximum  Principle and jensen's Formula; Entire and Meromorphic Functions; Elliptic  Fuctions; The Gamma and Zeta Functions; The Prime number Theorem;  Appendices. <br />Please take a look to the rest of my reviews (just click on  my name above).	2000-06-21
US	53060700	R17MC3M8W3FKRZ	069108078X	739668001	Introduction to Fourier Analysis on Euclidean Spaces. (PMS-32)	Books	5	15	17	N	N	A superb classic in harmonic analysis.	This book deals with the extension of real and complex methods in harmonic analysis to the many-dimensional case. So, its pre-requisites are a strong background in real and complex analysis and some acquaintance with  elementary harmonic analysis, that is, this book is intended for graduate  students and working mathematicians. Maybe some advanced undergraduates  could cover certain parts of the material.<br />This book is one component of  the Stein trilogy on harmonic analysis (together with &quot;Singular  Integrals and Differentiability Properties of Functions&quot; and  &quot;Harmonic Analysis&quot;, both also reviewed by myself), and as such  it must be regarded as an authoritative reference on the subject since  Elias Stein and Guido Weiss are two of the leading experts in the field,  and the material they selected was taken from their teaching and research  experience.<br />The contents of the book are: The Fourier Transform; Boundary  Values of Harmonic Functions; The Theory of H^p Spaces on Tubes; Symmetry  Properties of the Fourier Transform; Interpolation of Operators; Singular  Integrals and Systems of Conjugate Harmonic Functions; Multiple Fourier  Series.<br />Includes motivation and full explanations for each topic,  excercises for each chapter, called &quot;further results&quot;, and  extensive references. Outstanding printing quality and nice  clothbound.<br />These three volumes should be present in every analyst's  library.<br />Please take a look to the rest of my reviews (just click on my  name above).	2000-05-31
US	53060700	R1RRQ1L55DIC6C	0691080798	208665539	Singular Integrals and Differentiability Properties of Functions. (PMS-30)	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Must-have advanced text on harmonic analysis.	This appreciated book constitutes since its first printing one of the finest references on advanced harmonic analysis and some related topics. The author, one of the leading experts in the field, exposes clearly most  of the general background as well as recent results, orienting the reader  directly to the current trends in research.<br />The book is valuable not only  for harmonic analysis speciallists, but for every mathematician who wants  to get well trained in some important and subtle topics of analysis which  are shown by this approach as being closely related, leading the reader to  a deep and thorough understanding.<br />The contents of the book are: Some  fundamental notions of real-variable theory; Singular integrals; Riesz  transforms, Poisson integrals, and spherical harmonics; The  Littlewood-Paley theory and multipliers; Differentiability properties in  terms of function spaces; Extensions and restrictions; Return to the theory  of harmonic functions; Differentiation of functions; Appendices: Some  inequalities; The Marcinkiewicz interpolation theorem; Some elementary  properties of harmonic functions; inequalities for Rademacher  functions.<br />Includes motivation and detailed explanations for each topic,  excercises for each chapter, called &quot;further results&quot;, which are  small research projects on their own, and extensive references. The  printing and the clothbound are exquisite.<br />This kind of material should  be included in every graduate mathematics program. Should read companion  &quot;Introduction to Fourier Analysis on Euclidean Spaces&quot; (another  jewel) by Stein and Weiss, and later the recent volume &quot;Harmonic  Analysis&quot; also by Stein, both reviewed by myself.<br />Please take a look  at the rest of my reviews (just click on my name above).	2000-05-30
US	53060700	R2WZIZQNUNQYT2	0486668932	192382465	Singular Integral Equations: Boundary Problems of Function Theory and Their Application to Mathematical Physics (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	5	20	21	N	N	One of the finest on complex boundary value problems.	Eventhough this text dates from 1946 it is difficult to find a more complete and accurate discussion on the boundary value problems raised up by the Cauchy integral.<br />Being one of the most outstanding pupils of the  Vekua school (as Gakhov), Muskhelishvili explores every single particular  case of the classical boundary value problems of complex analysis giving a  complete solution to each, sometimes employing highly ingenious arguments.  It includes also several applications. <br />As in the case of the book by  Gakhov (also reviewed by myself) I wonder why this material is not standard  in usual complex analysis courses, at least in the American continent. When  you read this kind of books you realize that all your previous knowledge on  the subject was almost useless, to say the least. My suggestion for the  material to be mastered by complex analysis students is: First read an  introductory classic like Ahlfors, Lang, or Markushevitch, and then proceed  to Kress (Linear Integral Equations), Gakhov, and Muskhelishvili. Then you  will be ready for the next step: Hypercomplex analysis.<br />The contents of  the book are: The Hölder condition; Integrals of the Cauchy type; Some  corollaries on Cauchy integrals; Cauchy integrals near the ends of the line  of integration; The Hilbert and Riemann-Hilbert boundary problems; Singular  integral equations with Cauchy kernels (case of contours); The Dirichlet  problem; Various representations of holomorphic functions by Cauchy and  analogous integrals; Solution of the generalized Riemann-Hilbert-Poincaré  problem; The Hilbert problem in the case of arcs or discontinuous boundary  conditions; Inversion formulae for arcs; Effective solution of some  boundary problems of the theory of harmonic functions; Effective solution  of the principal problems of the static theory of elasticity for the  half-plane, circle and analogous regions; Singular integral equations for  the case of arcs and continuous coefficients; Singularintegral equations  in the case of discontinuous coefficients; Application to the Dirichlet  problem and similar problems; Solution of integro-differential equations of  the theory of aircraft wings of finite span; The Hilbert problem for  several unknown functions; Systems of singular integral equations with  Cauchy type kernels and some supplements; + 3 appendices.<br />Includes full  motivation for each topic, historical notes, and extensive  references.<br />Please read some of my other reviews (just click on my name  above).	2000-05-29
US	53060700	RKMJLTB538HIB	0387506160	740743045	Linear Integral Equations (Applied Mathematical Sciences)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	The right place to look.	Integral equations has become (I don't know why) a somewhat misterious subject. I've heard physicists say &quot;I have enough with differential equations. Why to study more complicated types of equations?&quot;, or  &quot;I have enough trouble with differential equations; please don't tell  me there's something else&quot;, and even &quot;Why to study integral  equations? What are they good for?&quot;.<br />The subject of integral  equations is a natural part of analysis which serves to connect several  related topics (complex analysis, harmonic analysis, potential theory,  differential equations,...) and to use all the power thus gained to solve  important boundary value problems of mathematics and physics. <br />Everyone  interested in mathematical physics should get a thorough training in  integral equations, and this book is the right place to start. Using a  modern and comprehensive language, the author exposes the most important  highlights of the theory, up to the numerical aspect, and puts the reader  in the track to current research.<br />The contents of the book are: Normed  spaces, bounded and compact operators, the Riesz theory, dual systems and  Fredholm theory, regularizations in dual systems, potential theory,  singular integral equations, Sobolev spaces, the heat equation, operator  approximations, degenerate kernel approximation, quadrature methods,  projection methods, iterative solution and stability, equations of the  first kind, Tikhonov regularization, regularization by discretization,  inverse scattering theory.<br />Includes motivation for each topic, excercises  for each chapter, and extensive references. Suitable for graduate students  and advanced undergraduates with a strong background in real and complex  analysis.<br />Please take a look to the rest of my reviews (just click on my  name above).	2000-05-23
US	53060700	R3TZ7Y7BH9NTZK	0486662756	18153182	Boundary Value Problems	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Remarkable text on advanced complex analysis.	This book should be the natural continuation of regular complex analysis courses. It presents the full theory of the Cauchy integral and applies it to solve important problems on differential and integral equations,  potential theory, etc.<br />Its contents are: Integrals of the Cauchy type,  the Riemann boundary value problem, singular integral equations with Cauchy  kernel, the Hilbert boundary value problem and singular integral equations  with Hilbert kernel, various generalized boundary value problems, boundary  value problems and singular integral equations with discontinuous  coefficients and open contours, integral equations soluble in closed  form.<br />Includes motivation and full explanations for each topic,  excercises and historical notes for each chapter, and extensive  references.<br />The way the author chose his material (most of it researched  by himself) makes this text the perfect connection between complex analysis  and the other topics I told before, and also constitutes the path to follow  if one is interested in hypercomplex analysis.<br />Please read the rest of my  reviews (just click on my name above).	2000-05-22
US	53060700	R1I9BDB82O5MH8	0471962007	92284780	Quaternionic and Clifford Calculus for Physicists and Engineers	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Useful for beginners as well as for researchers.	Hypercomplex analysis is experimenting a &quot;boom&quot; nowadays, and the mathematical community waited for a long time before the first introductory text appeared. This is it. Any student willing to enter this  discipline is got here a concise and comprehensive introduction which will  also serve as a reference for further study and research.<br />Contents:  Quaternions and multivectors, Clifford-valued functions and forms, Clifford  operator calculus, boundary value problems, numerical Clifford analysis,  further results and research problems. Appendices: Exact computations of  the Theodorescu transform, discrete fundamental solutions, discrete  Theodorescu transform.<br />It is worth mentioning that this book is almost  the only one covering the discrete case of hypercomplex analysis. Includes  full motivation and historical notes, and extensive references. Just be  careful with some typos.<br />Please read the rest of my reviews (just click  on my name above).	2000-05-19
US	53060700	RJOGOYQXRB1WZ	0486661326	322125335	Boundary and Eigenvalue Problems in Mathematical Physics (Dover Books on Physics)	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Physical problems treated with mathematical rigor.	This text includes material usually covered in mathematical physics courses, but its approach is somewhat different, and better, than most of the classics. The point is that the author felt not content with just explaining how to employ the most common mathematical methods to solve  physical problems. He, on one hand, presents full motivation from the  physical point of view, while on the other hand keeping high-level  mathematical rigor. Believe me: this is not usual in mathematical physics  books. By doing so, the author has produced a text valuable for both  physicists and mathematicians.<br />Its contents are: Hamilton's principle and  the theory of the first variation, representation of some physical  phenomena by partial differential equations, theorems related to partial  differential equations and their solutions, fourier series, self-adjoint  boundary value problems, Legendre polynomials and Bessel functions,  characterization of eigenvalues by a variational principle, spherical  harmonics, the nonhomogeneous boundary value problem.<br />Includes excercises  for most sections and references for each chapter. Suitable for third year  undergraduates and on.	2000-05-18
US	53060700	RQ32GA3IB2IEU	0521346541	233703747	Clifford Algebras and Dirac Operators in Harmonic Analysis (Cambridge Studies in Advanced Mathematics)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Full of interesting results.	This book is helping me a lot with my Ph.D. dissertation. It includes a lot of important results on hypercomplex analysis not usually found in the standard monographs on the subject (Brackx, Gürlebeck, Shapiro,...).<br />Its  contents are: Clifford algebras, Dirac operators and Clifford analyticity,  representations of Spin(V,Q), constant coefficient operators of Dirac type,  Dirac operators and manifolds.<br />Presents motivation for each section and  extensive references. A must-reading to become a speciallist in this area.  Suitable for graduate students and researchers.<br />Please read the rest of  my reviews (just click on my name above).	2000-05-17
US	53060700	R3T6O6NXHP00K7	038796259X	603110022	Holomorphic Functions and Integral Representations in Several Complex Variables (Graduate Texts in Mathematics, Vol. 108)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Complete and up to date.	This is a comprehensive introduction to one of the most complicated and difficult branches of analysis: complex analysis in several variables. The text begins at an elementary level with standard local results, followed by  a thorough discussion of the various fundamental concepts of &quot;complex  convexity&quot; related to the remarkable extension properties of  holomorphic functions in more than one variable. It then continues with a  comprehensive introduction to integral representations, and concludes with  complete proofs of substantial global results on domains of holomorphy and  on strictly pseudoconvex domains in C^n. The most important feature of the  book is the systematic inclusion of many of the developments of the last 20  years which centered around integral representations and estimates for the  Cauchy-Riemann equations.<br />Contents: Elementary local properties of  holomorphic functions, domains of holomorphy and pseudoconvexity,  differential forms and Hermitian geometry, integral representations, the  Levi problem and the solution of D-bar on strictly pseudoconvex domains,  function theory on domains of holomorphy, topics in function theory on  strictly pseudoconvex domains.<br />Includes full motivation, historical  notes, excercises for each section, and an extensive list of references.  Suitable for advanced undergraduate and graduate courses.<br />Please read the  rest of my reviews (just click on my name).	2000-05-17
US	53060700	RJYR7WHWUGX2G	0387946535	721660450	001: Partial Differential Equations I: Basic Theory (Applied Mathematical Sciences)	Books	5	17	22	N	N	Complete, accurate and well-written.	The author accomplished the goal of presenting this broad and many-faceted subject in a thorough and comprehensive manner. Beginning from the fundamentals of ODE theory to the most sophisticated methods for solving important PDE's of mathematical physics, this series of three volumes  comprises all what a modern analyst must know about the topic and much  more.<br />The contents of volume 1 are: Basic theory of ODE;  Laplace and  wave equations; Fourier analysis, distributions, and constant-coefficient  linear PDE; Sobolev spaces; linear elliptic equations; linear evolution  equations. Appendices: Outline of functional analysis; manifolds, vector  bundles, and Lie groups.<br />Originally intended for graduate students and  working mathematicians, most of the material is suitable for advanced  undergraduate courses. Includes excercises for each section and extensive  references.	2000-05-10
US	53060700	R1BJNXQWJ1QRP1	0387946527	500157352	003: Partial Differential Equations III: Nonlinear Equations (Applied Mathematical Sciences)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Difficult topics treated in a comprehensive manner.	One of the most important and subtle features of mathematics is the great difference existing between linearity and non-linearity. One always tries to linearize whenever possible, because linear problems are easier to  solve, but unfortunately the world is not linear, and we have to learn how  to deal with non-linear problems.<br />This volume discusses thoroughly some  very important cases of non-linear PDE's which are important in  mathematical physics or that possess intrinsic theoretical interest.<br />The  contents are: Function space and operator theory for nonlinear analysis;  nonlinear elliptic equations; nonlinear parabolic equations; nonlinear  hyperbolic equations; Euler and Navier-Stokes equations for incompressible  fluids; Einstein's equations.<br />A little bit more advanced and speciallized  than the other two volumes, but still useful for a broad community. A  graduate student with a solid background will find it perfectly  acquaintable. Includes lots of excercises and references.<br />Please read my  other reviews (just click on my name above).	2000-05-10
US	53060700	R3KPXJ86D686XH	0387946519	70713860	002: Partial Differential Equations II: Qualitative Studies of Linear Equations (Applied Mathematical Sciences)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Modern approach to important topics of mathematical physics.	This second volume focuses on several interesting problems arising from mathematical physiscs, making a perfect connection between the purely theoretical digression and the sources from which it originated.<br />The contents are: Pseudodifferential operators; spectral theory; scattering by  obstacles; Dirac operators and index theory; Brownian motion and potential  theory; the &quot;D&quot;-bar Neumann problem. Appendix: Connections and  curvature.<br />Useful for mathematics and physics advanced undergraduates,  graduate students, and researchers. Plenty of excercises and  references.	2000-05-10
US	53060700	R2D2G9ZRAYGT4U	0914098896	283001984	Calculus	Books	3	45	62	N	N	An example that &quot;classic&quot; doesn't mean &quot;the best&quot;.	It is an undeniable fact that every mathematician (at least in the American continent) has learned from this book. However, I totally disagree with those who regard it as the best calculus text available.<br />The style  of the text - light, slow, and even funny - is not what I would consider as  the most suitable for a college calculus course because it takes a lot of  precious time to read it all, and at the end the author comes up with a  &quot;surprising&quot; argument that is not different from those found  elsewhere (don't forget that calculus is a &quot;completed&quot;  discipline, so there's little hope to invent some new approach).<br />When I  was a first year student of course I loved Spivak, and read it every day,  but when I got a little bit more advanced, and later when I was a teacher,  I realized that those &quot;lovely&quot; features of this book were not  USEFUL for the student to understand better the subject.<br />Michael Spivak  is an intriguing author for me. I don't understand why he wrote this  fully-deatiled but unfocused book, and on the other hand he produced, to my  taste, the best available exposition on higher-dimensional calculus  (&quot;Calculus on Manifolds&quot;, also reviewed by myself) which was  written using a totally different style.<br />Nevertheless, the book is not  totally useless. You can easily find most of the important results stated  in a clear form, it's got a lot of excercises, and includes an extensive  list of references.<br />Classic books are frequently valuable, but they're  not always the best ones. My suggestion for a good, concise, focused, and  complete text for introductory calculus courses is Kuratowski (the finest  for me).<br />Please check my other reviews (just click on my name above).	2000-05-08
US	53060700	R1V6JOVOGLITJ0	0387550089	914988694	Lie Algebras and Lie Groups: 1964 Lectures Given at Harvard University (Grundlehren der Mathematischen Wissenschaften (Springer))	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Nice and complete, but very Bourbaki-looking.	The same problem with all Bourbaki authors: They treat the subject in a very concise, abstract, and authoritative way, but present almost no motivation to introduce the subject, and they are not so used to give  extensive and accurate references. Of course Serre is a leading expert in  the field, but he (nobody) cannot be regarded as the inventor of the  theory, so the absence of such a bibliography is not justifiable.<br />The  contents of the book are: Lie algebras, filtered groups and lie algebras,  universal algebra of a Lie algebra, free Lie algebras, nilpotent and  solvable Lie algebras, semisimple Lie algebras, representations of sl_n,  complete fields, analytic functions, analytic manifolds, analytic groups,  Lie theory. Includes excercises.<br />Useful for graduate students and working  mathematicians, along with a &quot;lighter&quot; reference.<br />Please check  my other reviews (just click on my name above).	2000-05-04
US	53060700	R35D8YGVMYKBCY	0125068573	139013594	Geometric Measure Theory, Second Edition: A Beginner's Guide	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Up-to-date reference.	This thin book (175 pages) provides the newcomer or graduate student with an illustrated introduction to geometric measure theory: the basic ideas, terminology, and results. The author has included a few fundamental  arguments and a superficial discussion of the regularity theory, but his  goal is merely to introduce the subject and make the standard text,  &quot;Geometric Measure Theory&quot; by Federer, more accesible. This  second edition includes updated material and references, corrections, and a  new chapter on soap bubble clusters.<br />Its contents are: Measures,  Lipschitz functions and rectifiable sets, normal and rectifiable currents,  the completeness theorem, area-minimizing surfaces, the approximation  theorem, regualrity results, monotonicity and oriented tanget cones, flat  chains, varifolds, minimal sets, soap bubble clusters.<br />Includes  excercises, plenty of illustrations, and extensive references.<br />Highly  useful for advanced undergraduate and graduate students in analysis and  geometry. The &quot;next step&quot; for fractal geometers.<br />If you want to  buy it maybe it should be better to wait for the third edition to appear by  June 2000.<br />Please check my other reviews (just click on my name above).	2000-05-04
US	53060700	R15JB4MMXEXTLI	0691032165	238809578	Harmonic Analysis: Real-Variable Methods, Orthogonality, and Oscillatory Integrals	Books	5	27	29	N	N	Nothing better than learning from the experts.	If you get involved in analysis sooner or later you will have to read Elias Stein. Why? Because the core of analysis is harmonic analysis, and this man has been one of the leading experts in the field over at least 35 years, so, whatever branch of analysis you choose, Dr. Stein will be  there.<br />This thick book (695 pages) includes most of the topics in  harmonic analysis which have been researched extensively during the last 20  years. It should be taken as a complement to Stein's &quot;Singular  Integrals and Differentiability Properties of Functions&quot; (1970) and  Stein &amp; Weiss' &quot;Introduction to Fourier Analysis on Euclidean  Spaces&quot; (1971).<br />Its contents are: Real variable theory (covering  lemmas, maximal function, generalized Calderón-Zygmund decomposition,  etc.), maximal functions (vector-valued max. functions, Carlesson measures,  etc.), Hardy spaces (characterization, atomic decomposition, singular  integrals, etc.), H^1 and BMO (sharp function, interpolation, etc.),  weighted inequalities (the class A_p, etc.), Fourier transform, almost  orthogonality, oscillatory integrals, maximal operators, maximal averages,  the Heisenberg group.<br />The style is concise and presents motivation for  each topic. Includes excercises - called &quot;further results&quot; -  which are short research topics on their own, and an extensive list of  references. The cloth bound is lovely. <br />Superb book; a must in every  analyst's library.<br />Please check my other reviews (just click on my name  above).	2000-05-03
US	53060700	R2YBIWOWP84ZB7	0122155505	947457956	001: Foundations of Modern Analysis Volume 1	Books	3	20	39	N	N	Abstraction to its last consequences.	I should be surprised to be the first reviewer of this book, but thinking it again I see the point. Dieudonn&eacute;'s books are just being displaced by more accesible and focused texts, instead of these authoritative  Bourbaki-style treatises which are often too abstract to be useful.  Bourbaki mathematics accomplished the mission of unifying and standarizing  (more or less) the whole of mathematics, but once that was done, their work  now turns out to be useless. The point is that when we tackle a problem, be  it in pure or applied mathematics, we seldom need the high level of  abstraction used by Bourbaki authors. Moreover, what we need are specific  results to handle the details of our solututions, and Dieudonn&eacute; pays almost  no attention to them; he prefers to stay at the most general possible  setting, making his treatment perspectiveless because he misses completely  the goal of abstraction: To use its power when dealing with particular  situations. That's why no one has reviewed Dieudonn&eacute; before me: His books  are read no more.<br />Nevertheless, undergraduate and graduate students may  find it useful as a reference, but not as a course text because it presents  no motivation to the topics treated and includes only a very short  bibliography.<br />Its contents are: Set theory, real numbers, metric spaces,  normed spaces, Hilbert spaces, spaces of continuous functions, differential  calculus, analytic functions, existence theorems (for ODE's), and  elementary spectral theory.<br />&quot;Treatise on Analysis&quot; consisted  originally on this sole book. Later it was expanded to four and later on to  nine.	2000-05-03
US	53060700	R1LRUDH1MRK7UK	007054235X	58821290	Principles of Mathematical Analysis (International Series in Pure and Applied Mathematics)	Books	1	38	62	N	N	Presents no motivation and not enough theory.	I've read a lot of introductory and advanced books on analysis, and this one is maybe the worst. It gives no motivation at all to present the material; it's just stated there. And the selection is not the best I would  reccomend. I think mathematics teachers should stop using this book as  course text because it doesn't look in touch with modern trends in  mathematics, as nowadays teaching demands. Some features I dislike are: (1)  It does not move away from the real-variable case; (2) it remains in the  old-fashioned framework of metric spaces (we need NORMED spaces, evenmore  NORMED ALGEBRAS); (3) most excercises look very difficult not becuse they  really are so, but because the theory the book includes is not enough to  solve them all; (4) some of its constructions lack rigor and  completeness.<br />If you are a newcomer to analysis and want to get well  trained, better read first Apostol's or Bartle's introductory texts, and  then move on to really fine books like Lang's, Hewitt and Stromberg's,  Kolmogorov's, or Dieudonné's.<br />Courious detail: Rudin's &quot;Real and  Abstract Analysis&quot; is a much better text. Why couldn't the author  write a nice introductory text in tune with the advanced one?<br />Please  check my other reviews (just click on my name above).	2000-04-28
US	53060700	R3QYMIIP0U40JV	0262590204	182918244	Encyclopedic Dictionary of Mathematics: The Mathematical Society of Japan (2 Vol. Set)	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Complete and accurate.	I have found this survey of mathematics very useful both as research and teaching tool. It includes almost every topic you can imagine treated in a complete and concise way. It also gives a lot of valuable and  difficult-to-find original references, of crucial importance when doing  research.<br />I saw this dictionary for the first time in my Polythecnic  Institute's library (Mexico City). I think every math library should own  its.<br />Please read my other reviews in my member page (just click on my  name above).	2000-04-19
US	53060700	R2G2JOX8I4N34S	0024041513	320072468	Real Analysis, 3rd Edition	Books	3	12	19	N	N	Why to write two books and bound them as one?	This is a very curious book. It performs the construction of the same integration theory twice! I still wonder why. In the first part the author builds up the theory for the real-variable case, and in the second for the general Banach-space case. The first one is totally included in the second  one, so, why to do it? Perhaps to make the book thicker and more expensive?  It would be enough to point out the real-variable case as an observation  and even as an excercise. None of my teachers used it as textbook and I  have used it only as a reference, but not the most important of  them.<br />Other features I don't like are that some interesting results are  left for the reader as excercises, and that most of its notations are not  standard. But nevertheless the text itself is not so bad. <br />Please check  my other reviews in my member page (just click on my name above).	2000-04-19
US	53060700	R1WKDIWVLHBBKC	0691079471	505225814	Dimension Theory (Princeton Mathematical Ser.; Vol 4)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Complete survey of dimension theory up to 1940.	This book includes the state of the art of (topological) dimension theory up to the year 1940 (more or less), but this doesn't mean that it's a totally dated book. Quite the opposite. If you read the most recent  treatises on the subject you will find no signifficant difference on the  exposition of the basic theory, and besides, this book contains a lot of  interesting digressions and historical data not seen in more modern books.  If you want to become an expert in this topic you must read  Hurewicz.<br />Please read my other reviews in my member page (just click on  my name above).	2000-04-17
US	53060700	R3OVSPB7X8WNR8	0125267401	102584867	Semi-Riemannian Geometry With Applications to Relativity, Volume 103 (Pure and Applied Mathematics)	Books	5	5	15	N	N	Addendum	This book is now available at Amazon.co.uk! <br />Its contents are: Manifold Theory. Tensors. Semi-Riemannian Manifolds. Semi-Riemannian Submanifolds. Riemannian and Lorentz Geometry. Special Relativity. Constructions.  Symmetry and Constant Curvature. Isometries. Calculus of Variations.  Homogeneous and Symmetric Spaces. General Relativity; Cosmology.  Schwarzschild Geometry. Causality in Lorentz Manifolds.<br />Let's go buy it!	2000-04-17
US	53060700	R3W44PB8ZPQSVI	0471922870	77857227	Fractal Geometry: Mathematical Foundations and Applications	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Exposes fractal geometry as a real mathematical discipline.	I appreciate Falconer's books on fractal geometry because they show the topic as it really is: a whole mathematical discipline on its own right and not just a nice temporary fashion.<br />It begins introducing basic  topological concepts and then proceeds to develop the theory for several  possible definitions of fractal dimension, showing the relations between  them. Then it explores deeply the local geometry of different kinds of  fractal objects, and studies some other geometrical situations, like the  pojection of fractals (ever thought of a DIGITAL sundial? Here it is  described!).<br />The book also includes a lot of applications to other areas  of mathematics and physics, a great amount of graphics, and much  more.<br />The text is suitable from third year undergraduate school and on.  It is a larger but lighter version of &quot;The Geometry of Fractal  Sets&quot;.	2000-04-13
US	53060700	R1V93QZYGBHPZF	0521337054	180234177	The Geometry of Fractal Sets (Cambridge Tracts in Mathematics)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Advanced treatise on fractal geometry.	This text is a must-reading for anyone seeking advanced knowledge on fractal geometry. It is dense and deep, but clear and concise. It includes a lot of interesting material ranging from basic measure-theoretic concepts  up to the disprove of Vitushkin's conjecture. It's got an extensive list of  references, mostly to the original papers, making it a fundamental research  tool.<br />As it can be inferred from the preceeding paragraph, the book is  not for begineers; it was designed for graduate level courses. Undergrads  and laymen should start with Edgar's &quot;Measure, Topology, and Fractal  Geometry&quot; and Falconer's &quot;Fractal Geometry: Mathematical  Foundations and Applications&quot;.<br />Please check my other reviews (just  click on my name above).	2000-04-13
US	53060700	R17VYGGGGFM4NN	0387972722	634433656	Measure, Topology, and Fractal Geometry (Undergraduate Texts in Mathematics)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Good starting point to study fractal geometry.	This book could be used as a bridge between traditional books on topology-analysis and the speciallized treatises on fractal geometry. More a catalog of definitions, methods, and references than a course text, it  covers the fundamental topological and measure-theoretic concepts needed to  understand the principles of some of the different dimension theories that  exist. But warning: the book is far away of being a complete exposition on  any of the subjects it includes.<br />Suitable for 3rd-year undergrads.  Interesting examples and exercises. Extensive bibliography.<br />Please check  my other reviews in my member page (just click on my name above).	2000-04-12
US	53060700	R2UE64LFYZ1N6A	0120790610	961302292	Fractals Everywhere	Books	3	12	15	N	N	Good computer graphics book. Bad mathematics book.	This book was written by a regarded expert in the fields of digital image processing and data compression, and illustrates well how some &quot;abstract&quot; mathematical concepts can be applied successfully to  such purposes.<br />However, it is evident that it was written in a rush, and  the results can be seen. I have found a lot of typographic mistakes, errors  in the exercises, and even errors in some of its mathematical proofs. Also,  the author pays almost no attention to the fundamental concept of fractal  geometry: the fractal dimension.<br />I read this book because I needed a  strong background in fractal geometry to write my Bachelor's thesis, but  got dissapointed because of its mathematical defficiencies, and eventually  decided to move to better sources on the subject.<br />Please check my other  reviews in my member page (just click on my name above).	2000-04-11
US	53060700	R395SA4X3KNHBP	0387907483	402811287	040: Linear Operator Theory in Engineering and Science (Applied Mathematical Sciences)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Enlightening for mathematicians, scientists, and engineers	This is one of my favourite introductory books on functional analysis because it includes all the fundamental concepts needed to get a thorough understanding of the most important topics in this theory. It stresses  which properties come from which structure (set-theoretic, topological, or  algebraic), and gives a complete exposition of the main results on bounded  and unbounded operators, meanwhile discussing some interesting examples of  application. Its appendices on integration, probability and stochastic  processes are also valuable. The text is suitable for undergraduate  analysis and functional analysis courses. Scientists and engineers will  find it very useful also because of its non-pedantic style.<br />Please check  my other reviews in my member page (just click on my name above).	2000-04-07
US	53060700	R3GXRW0H71A68A	0387944222	778450158	Applied Functional Analysis: Main Principles and Their Applications (Applied Mathematical Sciences)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A perspectiveful book	This excellent volume is exactly what you need to get a fast connection between traditional abstract operator theory and other application-oriented branches of mathematics. It shows how apparently different topics are in fact closely related. For example: The Hahn-Banach theorem and separation  of convex sets, and eventually the optimal control of rockets; or reflexive  Banach spaces and obstacle problems in elasticity; or Fredholm operators  and the Navier-Stokes equations.<br />If find this text suitable mostly for  graduate students who are already acquainted with this kind of subjects and  want to deepen their knowledge on the interaction between different  branches of mathematics and physics.<br />Please check my other reviews in my  member page (just click on my name above).	2000-04-06
US	53060700	R142BQE9QC541E	3540761241	33112626	Analytic Methods for Partial Differential Equations (Springer Undergraduate Mathematics Series)	Books	4	18	20	N	N	Good as an introduction	This text is a more or less modern approach to a classical subjet. The way it tackles the solution of PDE's, though stated in a modern language, is indeed dated, I mean, it employs mostly the traditional &quot;down-to-earth&quot; analytic approach instead of the more modern and  efficient operator approach. However, undergraduate students will find it  very useful to get acquainted with practical methods for actually solving  PDE's, and then they can proceed to deeper study on the analytic properties  of the solutions (the real goal of abstract PDE theory).<br />Some of the  topics covered in the book are orthogonal functions, separation of  variables, the characteristic method, D'Alembert's method, integral  transforms, Green's fuctions, and more.<br />Please check my other reviews in  my member page (just click on my name above).	2000-04-06
US	53060700	RGCDC5VDV6R9X	0387944427	254441306	Applied Functional Analysis: Applications to Mathematical Physics (Applied Mathematical Sciences) (v. 108)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Excellent account on modern operator theory	This well-written text covers the fundamentals of modern linear operator theory and points out most of its connections to other branches of mathematics and physics ( differential equations, integral equations,  finite elements, elasticity, quantum mechanics, and more). It includes all  the basic theory on Banach spaces, Hilbert spaces, orthogonality, Fourier  series, etc., and a chapter on the PDE's of mathematical physics. The  excercises are both illustrating and challenging. I find it useful for  undergrads, graduate students, and as a reference for working  mathematicians. Must read companion volume 109 also.<br />Please check my  other reviews in my member page (just click on my name above).	2000-04-05
US	53060700	R24QFYKYBW3KA4	0387901388	653858020	Real and Abstract Analysis (Graduate Texts in Mathematics) (v. 25)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	One of the best references on the subject	This is the kind of book I appreciate the most: one that's always got the information you need. This meticulous text covers thoroughly just every topic from elementary set theory up to product measures. It develops  carefully all topics that should be included in standard analysis lectures  (set theory, topology, Lebesgue integral, Banach and Hilbert spaces,  differentiation, product measures) at such level of abstraction that the  book turns out to be suitable for introductory courses, advanced courses,  and later reference. The only one shortcoming I see is that the book  includes no bibliography.<br />Please check my other reviews at my member page  (click on my name above).	2000-04-04
US	53060700	R2XY06THXIZX1O	0387978941	165382161	Differential Equations and Their Applications: An Introduction to Applied Mathematics (Texts in Applied Mathematics) (v. 11)	Books	3	25	47	N	N	Nice try, but...	This is the typical mathematics book intended for non-mathematicians. The author made a great effort to compile the most diverse examples of problems (better said MODELS of problems) that can be solved employing mostly ODE  and some PDE techniques. However, I think this kind of books fail to show  what mathematics is, and how mathematics should be used to solve problems  coming from other fields of knowledge.<br />First, the book does not cover  thoroughly the theory for the linear case, which could be carried out  without any effort up to the n-th order. Second, it does not tell  explicitly the great difference between the linear and the non-linear  cases. Third, eventhough it includes some material on systems of  differential equations, it doesn't exploit the fact that a n-th order  equation can be viewed as a n-th order system of of 1st order equations.  Fourth, everything is mixed up: in the same chapter you find elementary  concepts of linear algebra (that the student should be supposed to master),  some miscelaneous applications, and, if you are lucky, some theory on  differential equations. Fifth, it gives a wrong idea of the meaning of  solving an ACTUAL problem. The fact that we are able to give a nice  solution to a highly simplified model we have built does not mean that we  have found a practical solution to the problem we actually face up in the  real world, and moreover it does not mean that we will always succeed to  give a useful answer by employing these tools. When you try to solve a  problem that you don't know thoroughly you take the risk of building  castles in the air. I think that if you are interested in applying  mathematics you should start first by learning all the necessary theory and  then study carefully the problem you are interested in. And don't forget  the most important of all: the theoretical solution to an actual problem  must be confirmed by experimentation, something this book does not point  out.<br />To tell something positive about it let me say that you will find a  lot of challenging excercises, some of its &quot;application&quot; problems  are interesting, and if you are a teacher it will serve well as a companion  text for real treatises on differential equations like Coddington's or  Kaplan's.<br />Please check my other reviews at my member page (just click on  my name above).	2000-04-04
US	53060700	R34QH0MNKQRH9R	0486659429	814849554	An Introduction to Ordinary Differential Equations (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	5	105	107	N	N	Superb introduction to ODE's	This classic book appeared for the first time in the early 1960's, and the world is still waiting to see a better elementary text on ODE's.<br />It begins with a chapter covering the necessary background to understand the material, and then proceeds to study the first order linear equation. The  next step is the 2nd order linear equation and then the n-th order linear  equation. The most appreciated feature of this book is that the author  shows that the method (an explicit formula!) for solving the n-th order  equation is essentially the same as the 1st order one. After solving  completely the linear equation the author moves on to the non-linear case,  again up to the n-th order. The idea seems quite simple, yet no other  customary text introduces ODE's this way. All the other authors begin with  the 1st order equation mixing up the linear and the non-linear cases, and  continue their exposition following the same fashion, leading the student  to misunderstand a very subtle and important feature of analysis (and  mathematics): the great difference between linearity and non-linearity. The  way this book is written shows clearly this crucial phenomenon.<br />Another  valuable feature of this book is its complex-number approach which leads to  straightforward computation of explicit formulas for the solutions of  linear equations. Other texts give no more than the sketch of some methods  which have to be performed every single time, and most of them don't even  justify those methods rigorously.<br />Conclusion: Superb book. Excellent as a  course text.<br />Please read my other reviews at my member page (click on my  name above).	2000-04-03
US	53060700	RZON163K6BEH8	0387967885	18741653	Analysis Now (Graduate Texts in Mathematics)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Instant reference to most highlights of modern analysis	Originally conceived as a quick introduction to modern operator theory, this book surveys from the very foundations of analysis (topological sapaces, normed spaces, etc.) up to a state-of-the-art exposition of  integration theory, stepping through spectral theory, unbounded operators,  and more.<br />Its style is adequately abstract, rigorous and concise. Covers  more material than most of the old-fashioned classical references on the  subject.<br />A must-reading for the graduate student. Even undregrads will  find most parts acquaintable and useful.	2000-04-01
US	53060700	R303GY5C72MHAC	0471042226	81329631	The Elements of Integration and Lebesgue Measure	Books	5	38	38	N	N	Excellent as an itroduction and as a reference	When I took my first one-semester course on measure and Lebesgue integration my teacher chose Bartle's &quot;The Elements of Integration&quot; as text. After reading many other books on the subject  now I'm sure he made a wise decision.<br />Assuming almost no strong  mathematical background, Bartle is able to build up the basic Lebesgue  integral theory introducing the fundamental abstract concepts  (sigma-algebra, measurable function, measure space, &quot;almost  everywhere&quot;, step function, etc.) in such an easy way that the student  is not only able to handle them but to UNDERSTAND them.<br />From the first  part of the book I appreciate specially chapters 6, 7, and 10, on L_p  spaces, modes of convergence, and product measures, respectively. These  chapters contain the most used results of the basic theory, and they are  stated exactly in the way one needs them, making the book very useful for  future reference.<br />I like the second part very much also, because it  stresses the importance of measure theory by itself and not only as a  requisite for integration theory. If you are interested in fractal geometry  or geometric measure theory you will find chapters 11 to 17 very  helpful.<br />Since I own this book it has never been lazy in my bookshelf.	2000-03-31
US	53060700	R39768D57CRYCN	0486648303	138457761	Unbounded Linear Operators: Theory and Applications (Mathematics Series)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Excellent complement to usual operator theory texts	Most texts on functional analysis (linear operator theory) deal almost exclusively with bounded, or continuous, operators. However, when one studies some problems on differential equations one needs to work with  unbounded operators.<br />This book constitutes a good starting point to get  acquainted with such operators, mostly with closed and strictly singular  ones. It includes some applications to perturbation theory and ordinary  differential equations, and gives some comments on the Dirichlet problem  for PDE's. Finally, its extensive list of references motivates you to  deeper study.	2000-03-31
US	53060700	R7GE2G2USXI10	0201002884	591444919	Mathematical Analysis, Second Edition	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Elegant, rigorous, complete.	Apostol's book well deserves the label &quot;classic&quot; because of its conciseness, elegance, and completeness, among other features.<br />I think this book is one of the best introductions to multivariate calculus  availble. It includes everything that should be covered in such a course,  from the basic topology of n-dimensional euclidean space up to a thorough  exposition of the calculus itself, and even some complex  analysis.<br />Apostol is a long-lasting companion in the matematicians'  libraries.	2000-03-29
US	53060700	R1ZPDAGBOX4PWT	0486406830	54024474	Elements of the Theory of Functions and Functional Analysis (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A best-seller forever	The emminent Andrei Kolmogorov wrote the first version of this book by compiling his lecture notes in the 1940's. The overall text of this book dates from the 1950's. When it was first published it became immediately a  best-seller, and today it continues to be so. Wonder why? It's easy. Dr.  Kolmogorov was one of the finest mathematicians ever, and moreover, he was  also recognized as an excellent teacher. So, the combination of first-line  expert and first-line lecturer produced this highly appreciated text. By  reading it you can see not only the author's capability to introduce  delicate subjects (set theory, normed spaces, linear functionals, Lebesgue  integral, Fourier integrals, etc.) but also his genius in understanding  where the trends of modern mathematics would flow. The more you read this  book the more you love it, and the more you love mathematics itself.	2000-03-29
US	53060700	R1I5O1WWSLJVMU	038798593X	306145317	Fundamentals of Differential Geometry (Graduate Texts in Mathematics)	Books	4	30	37	N	N	Complete but lacking unity	This book looks more like a big collection of essays than really a treatise on one subject. If you have read other books by Lang you will notice that some material included in previous works appears reproduced  here word by word. Also, there are some inconsistencies in the notation of  different sections, making it obvious that different parts of the book were  written at different times, and perhaps by different persons.<br />All these  shortcomings don't mean that the book is bad. Quite the opposite: It is a  very complete survey on modern differential geometry, including from the  fundamentals up to recent results. The graduate student and the working  mathematician will find it very useful.	2000-03-28
US	53060700	R1R2PT6310OHGD	0486638332	803877093	Vector and Tensor Analysis with Applications (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	4	24	25	N	N	Dated, but well-written and complete	This book is a translation from the Russian of a regarded text written in the 1960's. Taking this into account you cannot expect to find a state-of-the-art exposition of the subject. However, the book is written in  a very concise and focused style, making it endurable. Its clear  introduction to many delicate topics (covariant derivatives, metric  tensors, geodesics, etc.) is still valuable even now when the differential  form approach seems to have won the battle. Also, the sections it devotes  to integral theorems look more in touch with current trends in mathematics  than most of the classical texts at this level.	2000-03-28
US	53060700	R1SVJYPDUAYZME	0867201223	948566051	Advanced Calculus, Revised Edition	Books	5	30	36	N	N	Modest title	As Spivak's &quot;Calculus on Manifolds&quot;, this book is labeled with a very modest title. It should be something as &quot;All you wanted to know about analysis on manifolds but were afraid to ask&quot;. <br />This book is a  must-reading for the analyst. It covers everything from the most basic  vector space concepts up to the fundamental theorems of classical  mechanics, running through multivariate calculus, exterior calculus,  integration of forms, and many topics more, always keeping a very modern  and rigorous style.<br />The undergraduate may find it a little difficult, but  the effort is worth it. For the graduate student and the working  mathematician it is an almost-daily reference.	2000-03-28
US	53060700	R13NCNPEBLOMVX	0792345134	752450186	Quaternions and Cayley Numbers: Algebra and Applications (Mathematics and Its Applications)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Excellent introduction to higher dimensional number systems	As a working mathematician in the field of hypercomplex analysis I've found this book very useful to understand the algebraic and geometric properties of the arithmetic of hypercomplex numbers. Eventhough the book  doesn't tell anything about quaternionic analysis, it is helpful as a  reference when one has to deal with the algebraic features of these  systems.<br />I think most of the contents of the book are understandable by  second or thir year undergrads, after reading Feferman's &quot;The Number  Systems&quot;, for example.	2000-03-25
US	53060700	RI9EJEH65UOIY	0201627280	347158102	Elements Of Algebraic Topology	Books	4	26	29	N	N	A little incomplete	This well written text is one of the standard references in algebraic topology courses because of its conciseness, and I find it very useful as a reference text. <br />However I think it is a little incomplete because of several reasons.<br />(1)It pays no attention to one basic concept of  algebraic topology: the fundamental group.<br />(2) It doesn't cover ^Cech  homology, important in other areas, like dimension theory for  example.<br />(3) It doesn't stress the most important feature of algebraic  topology: its connection to other areas of mathematics (analysis,  differential geometry, etc.).<br />(4) Its list of references is too short,  and lacks almost completely HISTORICAL references which are always  important to become an expert in any field.<br />Conclusion: a good reference  on homology and cohomology essentials, but not &quot;the&quot; reference on  algebraic topology as a whole.	2000-03-24
US	53060700	R3UP5A2PZDGF48	0471010901	73447426	Topics in Algebra, 2nd Edition	Books	3	8	17	N	N	Good for undergraduates, not good enough for daily work	Herstein's book has become a classic in undergraduate teaching because it is an &quot;easy&quot; abstract algebra text that makes the student feel confident that he is really learning something advanced and important.<br />However, when you are done with undergrad school and get  really advanced this book turns out to be not so deep, not so advanced, and  not so complete. I appreciate books that remained useful through several  stages of my learning, and I cannot say Herstein's is one of them.<br />One  feature I don't like of this book is that it really doesn't move away from  the truly basic properties of the algebraic objects it studies, I mean, it  doesn't include really deep or recent results, making it a perspectiveless  book. Also, some of its notations are not standard.	2000-03-24
US	53060700	R5B7EA6OOKSUA	0697068897	873813393	Topology	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Complete exposition of basic topology	There are only a few classic encyclopaedic texts on undergraduate topology, and Dugundji's is one of them. And among such books, this is my favourite because the others are too old-fashioned or too voluminous. Dugundji's book is short, modern, and impeccable. It covers every topic an  undergraduate should know and even more. It is still useful for me after  years of use. It exposes all important concepts of set topology and gives a  short but focused introduction to algebraic topology.<br />You won't regret to  read it.	2000-03-24
US	53060700	RCFK1MPX58P03	0120598159	481625365	Mathematical Methods for Physicists, Fourth Edition	Books	3	19	20	N	N	Not a math text	Arfken's book has become a classic in mathematical physics teaching, but I don't think it could be regarded as a good text for such purpose because its is not really a mathematical text. This book is just a collection of  formulas, EASY examples, problems, and references, and as such it is quite  good, but the indefense undergraduate needs more than that to tackle the  subject.<br />As a working mathematician I use the book mostly as a list of  formulas. When I was a teacher I also found here a lot of interesting  exercises to include in the exams.<br />As a conclusion, I find the text good  as a reference, but bad as a course text.	2000-03-23
US	53060700	R378ZEDXI9MBQ0	0444100881	542163441	Intro to Metamathematic (Bibliotheca Mathematica, a Series of Monographs on Pure and)	Books	5	27	39	N	N	Enlightening reading	Mathematicians are always aware of the precision and consistency of their asserts, so they need to be trained in the very fundamentals of their science.<br />This book provides an enlightening vision about the basis of  mathematics exploring such abstract topics as the paradoxes of set theory,  transfinite numbers, and much more.<br />I used this book as a reference in a  course I gave on mathematical logic, set theory, and the fundamentals of  the number systems.	2000-03-23
US	53060700	R3JU19J0556VDB	0387947469	832377051	Handbook of Mathematics and Computational Science	Books	3	13	20	N	N	Mostly helpful, but incomplete	I think this book is a great reference of mathematics for non-mathematicians, but as a working mathematician I would expect a little more from a book with such a name. I don't say I want a thorough  mathematical text, but I'm still waiting for a &quot;mathematics  handbook&quot; that includes the Lebesgue mean-value theorem for integrals,  or that tells how many abelian groups of order 15 are there, for  example.<br />This book serves pretty fine when you have to give a  mathematical advise to a non-mathematician, but when you are working with  weakly singular integral operators, for example, it is useless.	2000-03-23
US	53060700	R3LULV3RBKYERA	0521316073	983143696	Astrophysics of the Sun	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A must for the solar astronomer	Whether you are a beginner or experienced astronomer, amateur or pro, for shure this book contains something that you don't know, otherwise you would know everything about the sun. It is perhaps the most complete source on  solar astonomy available.<br />Of course it is written in a very  &quot;academic&quot; style because it is intended for astrophysics graduate  students and researchers, but it can be read by advanced amateurs who are  not afraid of mathematical formulas.	2000-03-22
US	53060700	R1ESZPIR6TOLDO	0521401100	118743079	Observing the Sun (Practical Astronomy Handbooks)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Excellent for beginner solar observers	This book contains almost everything you need to get initiated in the fascinating area of solar astronomy. Beginning from a historical review, the author makes a thorough exposition of the elements of solar observation  (what is to be observed, how to do it), and even proposes some interesting  projects that can easily be carried out by amateurs.	2000-03-22
US	53060700	R1H3VBDZZ4ORZ6	0521456517	782444116	The Cambridge Eclipse Photography Guide: How and Where to Observe and Photograph Solar and Lunar Eclipses	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Nice, short, and concise	This excellent guide was written by two of the most experienced professional eclipse speciallists in the world, so you are guaranteed to get highly useful knowledge that will help you a lot in your eclipse  adventures.<br />One feature that I liked was its brevity. The authors go  directly to the &quot;meat&quot;. It is a thin book, but every paragraph  contains a high dosis of information, nevertheless keeping a  &quot;light&quot; non-boring style.<br />You will find its text, charts, and  tables very useful, and its pictures lovely.	2000-03-22
US	53060700	R27LHRDPRVKDU3	0521291801	67699077	Textbook on Spherical Astronomy	Books	5	34	35	N	N	&quot;The&quot; reference for position astronomy	If you are interested in any subject of position astronomy (motion of the moon, stellar navigation, astrometry, etc.) you must stat by reading this book. Eventhough it is basically a reviewed old text, it is still the most  concise and complete reference on the area.<br />It contains from the basic  formulas of spherical trigonometry to the full explanation of the  conditions necesary to observe a solar eclipse, or principles of star  parallax measurement, for example.<br />I think this book is useful not only  for amateur and pro astronomers, but also for undergraduate mathemathicians  and physicists, and even for highschoolers.	2000-03-22
US	53060700	R1Z5U2LNTHA0C1	0486235688	157610977	Burnham's Celestial Handbook: An Observer's Guide to the Universe Beyond the Solar System, Vol. 2	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Undoubtedly helpful	As I told in my previous review (bernardo@esfm.ipn.mx, 1998), Burnham's Handbook continues to be a daily reference for most amateur astronomers because it hasn't been surpassed, even rivalled.<br />We all know that the  coordinates it gives are not the current ones. We all know that some of its  data is out of date. We all know that its typing is old-fashioned. We all  know that its pictures are not digital. But we all also know that it is one  of the most useful astronomy sources around.	2000-03-22
US	53060700	R3AO7QIRT0W2LO	0471127957	742065176	Eclipse!: The What, Where, When, Why, and How Guide to Watching Solar and Lunar Eclipses	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Highly recommendable	I've been lucky to watch 3 total solar eclipses in my life, and still want more! This book was written by an eclipse-addict to help other eclipse-addicts, like me. I feel very grateful to Mr. Harrington for  sharing all his experience and regarded knowledge to make the eclipse  experience more fun. I'm now planning to watch the 2001 eclipse in Africa  based on this book's advises. <br />The book includes charts, tables,  photographic tips, and much more useful information. The only drawback I  see is that it has no color pictures.	2000-03-21
US	53060700	R2J9ZFZV5UJF09	0943396212	564605178	Elements of Solar Eclipses 1951-2200	Books	4	1	2	N	N	It works, but doesn't tell why.	As it is usual in Meeus' books, it presents a thorough exposition of all the algorithms needed to calculate with high accuracy all you can imagine, but there is not the slightest sketch of a mathematical proof in the whole  text, making it incomplete. You will find it very useful, as I have, to  compute the local circumstances of solar eclipses in remote or very  particular locations, and much more, but you will LEARN nothing.	2000-03-20
US	53060700	R1WBZUXW7RVJFL	0933346034	710682684	Atlas of Deep-Sky Splendors	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Beatiful pictures and accurate information	This book by Hans Vehrenberg is a compilation of a lot of very nice pictures of deep-sky objects taken with more or less modest photographic equipment before the digital processing era. It includes full explanations  about each object.<br />This books shows what can be achieved by a good  amateur astrophotographer.	2000-03-20
US	53060700	R16MBR1EQSKBWO	3879749086	484183751	Handbook of Constellations	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Useful for beginners	This is the most modest star atlas made by Hans Vehrenberg and the only one of them which is not photographic. It features white stars on a black background, coordinate grids, one chart for each constellation, tables of  prominent objects on each chart, and more. A shortcoming is that it only  displays stars to the 6th magnitude, not to mention its 1950.0 coordinates,  but its other features and its very good bounding make it nice and useful  for the beginner amateur.	2000-03-20
US	53060700	R1KEBDH536I1PE	0943396220	219358368	Astronomical Formulae for Calculators	Books	3	22	24	N	N	Out of date, but still useful	This book was a best-seller when it was first published because it was almost the only one source that could help amateurs to unveil the hidden misteries of ephemerides computing.<br />The book was written before the era  of the personal computer, when a common person only had access to those  luxurious HP or TI programmable calculators, and therefore you cannot  expect to get highly accurate results from it because its algorithms were  designed to run on those quite limited machines.<br />You could find this  book's algorithms useful if you want a fast calculation and you don't need  high precision.	2000-03-20
US	53060700	R2VT7RTLWOJU73	0125267401	102584867	Semi-Riemannian Geometry With Applications to Relativity, Volume 103 (Pure and Applied Mathematics)	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Excellent for beginner and experienced mathematicians	This is one of the best books on Differential Geometry I've ever read. It includes a clear exposition of all the basic results and then goes on to the most deep aspects of the subject, making it useful for undergraduate  and graduate students, as well as experienced working mathematicians. It's  a pitty that it's no longer available.	2000-03-15
US	53060700	R3A21CKVGUH57R	0805390219	342419752	Calculus On Manifolds: A Modern Approach To Classical Theorems Of Advanced Calculus	Books	5	16	19	N	N	Simply the best	This book is just the best monograph on the subject available. The author states his goal clearly since the beginning and includes the exact amount of fundamental material needed to get to the main result: Stoke's theorem.  The approach is not as general or abstract as it could be, but obviously  Dr. Spivak decided to sacrifice that to make the reading more  comprehensible, because his goal was not an encycopaedic treaty of analysis  and differential geometry, but a detailed explanation of how this important  subject is understood by modern mathematicians.<br />Just a word of warning:  this book is not for beginners. If you are a newcomer to multivariate  calculus or if you are not in love with abstract mathematics then this book  could give you a headache.	2000-03-15
US	53060700	R2VNYFTEFTC8OO	0125267452	94925306	Elementary Differential Geometry, Second Edition	Books	4	3	13	N	N	Very useful, but lacking some abstraction	I like this book very much because it helps me frequently when I need to remember some definitions or formulas, but I think it could be improved if some topics were treated in a more abstract way, as all the material on  differential forms, for example.	2000-03-15
