US	53069494	R3HOETHQUW0425	0743271157	401028449	Blowback: A Thriller	Books	5	19	23	N	N	Is Scot Harvath the next Dirk Pitt?	If you like your thrillers in the form of international espionage then Brad Thor's latest book may be the next good read for you.  If waiting a year or more, is too long a time for you to learn how Dirk Pitt has saved the whole world from destruction yet again, then Brad Thor has a larger than life hero who might be just the intermediate fix you need!  Welcome Scot Harvath!    Like all good thrillers, in Blowback Thor gives us a hero (protagonist) with a serious problem. This would be Scot Harvath, ex-seal, ex-secret service agent, and intrepid patriot.  You don't have to wait long to figure out what the problem is, the actions starts in the first couple pages of the book, and the problem is not limited to just one big problem, there are all sorts of tangential issues to worry about as well.  And again, like all good thrillers, the more our hero tries to solve the problem the worse the problem becomes. Harvath has all the skills and talents you would expect from someone with his background, but incredibly as soon as one bad guy gets eliminated, we learn that he was just a front for another much \\"badder\\" guy.      Blowback has Harvath in search of an evil genius who has figured out how to spread a plague around the world that will kill all but the most faithful Islamic extremists. While good guy Harvath has a lot of allies (no surprise, he teams up with a really smart, great looking woman), time is certainly working against him. As the story races to the big confrontation you will be treated to spectacular scenery, impregnable fortresses, lots of destruction, and you definitely won't be disappointed with the conclusion.      Brad Thor makes great use of current events and many of the characters are real life people/politicians with their names changed (presumably to protect the innocent).  Thor serves up a great rendition of Hillary Rodham Clinton Rodham.  Of course \\"great\\" really depends on which side of the fence you sit!  In the end Brad Thor ties up all the loseends and leaves the reader satisfied but anxious for the next story!  It is just fiction, but escapist fiction in the most enjoyable sense.    Highest recommendation for captivating, up all night reading.	2005-10-10
US	53069494	R2S3GB61JFABP8	042519678X	654710059	The Delicate Storm	Books	4	19	19	N	N	It's a metorological thing	I am not sure I can tell you anymore about the plot than what other reviewers have already written.  Therefore, I will focus in other areas and generalize a bit.   <br /> <br />The weather definitely plays big in this--the latest crime-stopper--novel from Giles Blunt, and I am sure Canadians will certainly commiserate with Detective Cardinal and the citizens Algonquin Bay, Ontario, when an unusual January ice storm virtually shuts down the town.  Of course the weather never seems to affect the criminals amongst us!   <br /> <br />Blunt's a great story teller and a gifted writer, this story is testament to that fact.  Do you know how you can be readying and enjoying a good book, then hit a spot that seems to do little to advance the story, and all of a sudden you are skimming over the words rather than reading and absorbing them?  Of course you do!  Well in this book, that never occurred for me.  The book was not particularly suspenseful nor would you call it a thriller, but it was interesting throughout and each page, paragraph, and sentence, made a contribution.  Blunt uses the entire book, like a trail of bread crumbs, to guide the reader to a final realization of whodunit.  Try this--and this is not a spoiler--stop when you get to the middle of the book and try to figure out who the killer is, you will have been introduced to all the characters by then.  Bet you can't do it!  <br /> <br />A believable crime story, with real-life characters.  It could happen like this somewhere and probably already has!	2005-10-05
US	53069494	R2C4X5OKMTX6BM	0399152911	756033017	Out of Range	Books	5	37	38	N	N	Thoroughly enjoyable reading!	You really have to wonder why C. J. Box isn't selling more books. He is clearly a talented writer with a gifted imagination. He has been recognized by critics and organizations responsible for literary awards, and yet his books are hard to find, even at the largest big box bookstores. I am hoping that with his latest book, Out of Range, the momentum he needs to move to the next level of recognition, will begin to build. <br /> <br />Out of Range is C.J's 5th Joe Pickett novel. For anyone new to the series, Joe Pickett is a Game Warden working for the state of Wyoming. You might not think there would be a lot happening in the life of a Wyoming Game Warden, but in Joe Pickett's Wyoming there sure as heck is! Seems this state has an over abundance of killings, deadly animals, and incredibly beautiful but dangerous landscapes, and Joe Pickett is a magnet that seems to attract all the various forms of trouble. <br /> <br />This book begins when Joe learns about the death/suicide of a good friend and fellow Game Warden and the man responsible for the highly visible Jackson Hole district. Joe is selected from a short list of Game Wardens to take over his friend's former district. As you might expect, Joe sees all kinds of reasons to doubt the \\"official\\" findings behind his friend's death, and it doesn't take Joe long to make enemies of the same people that apparently weren't getting along with the former Warden. Added to the problems in Jackson Hole, Joe is also having marital problems with the wife he temporally left behind when he had to relocate to the new district, and if that weren't enough, she is also experiencing her own form of grave danger. <br /> <br />While the conclusion is fairly predictable, the story builds suspense and anticipation throughout, and you will enjoy how Box pulls it all together at the end. This is a well written book, easy to read, and unlike so many similarly styled books, Box spends enough time introducing all the characters so that they are easy to keep track of and remember. <br /> <br />Highly Recommended!	2005-09-28
US	53069494	R1QHVCWPOS8I92	0375406778	246289375	No Country for Old Men	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A good bit more than it first appears	This book starts out like a thriller, in fact it starts out pretty much like a mass-market thriller, but it doesn't finish that way. If you buy this book for the suspense you may be somewhat disappointed by the direction taken. However, if your taste runs to \\"deeper meaning\\" literature that is good to great, then you will enjoy this book from Cormac McCarthy.  <br /> <br />The story begins when Llewelyn Moss, while hunting antelope in the desert near his home, discovers a murder scene. Apparently it's a drug deal gone wrong. Moss, basically a good man, warily surveys the carnage, and finds a bag full of millions in cash. With no one around to witness, Moss decides to take the drug money.  Bad move.  But it is the decision around which this sorrowful tale is told.   <br /> <br />McCarthy's writing takes a little getting used to, it is unadorned and he wastes no words, there are no quotes, speakers are seldom identified, commas are rare, as are adjectives for that matter! The writing is simple, but all the more powerful because of it. It is a dark book full of foreboding and dread, good versus evil, where bad decisions are traps offering no way out and are compounded by even worse decisions.  No happy ending here either (no surprise to McCarthy followers), so if that's what you're looking for, look elsewhere.  It is a raw and brutal account of a world gone wrong, a world that Sheriff Bell (the book is told from Bell's point of view) no longer understands.  The exchange between Bell and one of his men sort of sum things up, \\"It's a mess, aint it Sheriff?' 'If it aint it'll do till a mess gets here.\\"	2005-09-26
US	53069494	R21895TXY5GVGO	1414303432	853884229	The Ezekiel Option (Political Thrillers Option #3)	Books	4	66	74	N	N	It is about the biblical end of time...	Read the title of this review, if you aren't interested or don't believe biblical prophesy, then you probably won't find a lot that you like about this book.  In fact this book will make you uncomfortable and your discomfort might even come out in your review as an emotional tirade (funny how that happens).  So, rather than subject yourself to an uncomfortable reading experience just don't bother with the book.  If on the other hand you are open to this type of thinking, this book will be enjoyable and will progress in ways that bring you comfort.  Is it a great piece of literature? No, but it is interesting and suspenseful in a number of places.  Does it take a leap of faith and are their places in this book that seem too incredible to believe?  For some folks yes, but faith is what defines religion.  I don't believe it is possible to predict the end of time, neither when or in what fashion, other than in general terms (the bible says fire).  Like a thief in the night, that's what I have always been told.  This book makes you think and I believe Rosenberg accomplished exactly what he had hoped when he wrote it. <br /> <br />Recommended to all fair minded people.	2005-09-22
US	53069494	R1XVX7ZSJ7MHA9	0814408575	980457111	Soldier, Statesman, Peacemaker: Leadership Lessons from George C. Marshall	Books	3	13	16	N	N	More Biographical than it was Instructional	Like most of the other reviewers, I hold General Marshall in high regard, and as a result, I wanted this to be a defining book.  It was not.  It was however, a short little interesting look about Marshall.      I also realize my opinion contradicts what others here have written, but what I read was a somewhat disjointed biography (meaning it was not chronological) themed around General Marshall's leadership style.  Generally speaking it is difficult to actually teach leadership or impart lessons learned, from a third person perspective, even when it is based on very thorough research. This book has research and some hearsay. What carries weight, is leadership taught in the 1st person.  A good example of this--although in a very different setting--is John Wooden's book, Wooden on Leadership.    While this book is insightful, it is not nearly as inspirational as I would have hoped, or as it could have been.  Assuming that in large measure the readership of this book are people having a personal relationship with the military or an affinity for its history, I believe the author missed an important opportunity to tie Marshall's leadership into the development of current leadership doctrine as defined in Army Field Manuals (FM 22-100, being primary).  If anything, Marshall epitomized the current Army \\"Be, Know, Do\\" philosophy of leadership.    I would have preferred the author spend a little time explaining the difference between the \\"authority\\" Marshall gave his subordinates and the authority he and his subordinates earned from the men in their command.  Over the years I have seen many people mistake the two.  In the first instance Marshall, or any leader, authorizes a subordinate to make certain decisions without having to check back for permission.  The implication being that the leader will support the subordinate's decision.  In the second instance it is a case of leaders earning the authority to lead from those they lead.  By virtue of rank or position, leaders aregiven power and responsibility for those things in/under their command.  The use of power can certainly get things done, but power alone will almost never create the type of organization that is recognized for its excellence. Sooner or later, folks are going to resent being \\"powered\\" around. Conversely, authority to lead that is earned by positive influence and is based in part on trust, is something real leaders receive FROM their subordinates.  On the part of the led, it is a willingness to follow.  And that was the sort of leadership that Marshall practiced and Army doctrine teaches.    A few other recommended first person leadership books (instructional):  by John C. Maxwell, The 17 Indisputable Laws of Teamwork, The 21 Irrefutable Laws of Leadership, and Developing the Leaders Around You.  By Jon M. Huntsman, Winners Never Cheat, by Dale Dauten, The Gifted Boss, and James C. Hunter, The Servant.	2005-08-24
US	53069494	R1X9A3BL83NZVN	0743275063	141370518	Angels & Demons: Special Illustrated Collector's Edition (Robert Langdon)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	What's not to love?	It is just hard to imagine that anyone would not enjoy this engrossing story, particular those who enjoyed The Da Vinci Code.  In my opinion this was a better book than the Code.  The premise was certainly more believable.  Like the code, Angels and Demons was remarkably well researched.  Who does research like this better than Dan Brown?  All the loose ends come together and fit perfectly. <br /> <br />Like most of the other reviewers, I highly recommend the special illustrated edition, not because I am trying to drum up more revenue for Mr. Brown and his publisher, but because the pictures add immeasurable to the overall authentic feel of the book. The less imagination you have to use the more realistic the story becomes.  Of course it's fiction, but it is fiction of the best kind. It entertains on multiple levels, it is suspenseful, and to some degree it educates. <br /> <br />This is a sure fire recommendation of a great book.  Nearly everyone who reads this book will have fun with it.  If you read all the time, and go through so many books that you have a tough time remembering the titles, then just start this book.  You won't soon forget the pleasure this thrilling and suspenseful book creates. <br /> <br />My highest recommendation.	2005-07-28
US	53069494	R2LUZGTPLUQVES	0374261873	887740058	In the Shadow of the Law: A Novel	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Remember LA Law?  This storybook law firm has nothing to do with that!	First time author Kermit Roosevelt has at least two things going for him.  First, he writes very well, which isn't necessarily the same as telling an interesting story, and second, he's got an unforgettable name that's a real attention-getter.  <br /> <br />I gave this book 4 stars primarily on the strength of Roosevelt's writing and elegant prose.  He obviously knows a lot about the law and there are several times in this book where he's able to build a little tension and some excitement, but for the most part this book is a look into the physiological make-up of a dozen or so lawyers in a single Washington D.C. law firm.  The use of introspection or reflection is overdone, at least to my way of thinking.  I bought this book looking for something along the lines of Grisham or Turow, and was a little disappointed that this was not a story similar to what they write.  While the book is interesting, if you are looking for a legal thriller or courtroom drama, you need to look elsewhere.  This is clearly a coming-of-age novel for the main characters, who (male and female first year law firm associates) are filled with self doubt and second thoughts about their career choice.  After reading this book, it makes me think that lawyers consider everything they do--even outside the office--in terms of lost billable hours. <br /> <br />Probably enjoyed most by someone in the legal profession.	2005-07-07
US	53069494	R3U5VS61BAPIO5	0976165902	213935822	The Loch	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Beautiful women an' sea monsters, whit mair could ye want?	Steve Alten has written a great summer story and just the sort of beach novel everyone looks for, or should.  Set primarily in the Scottish Highlands, in and around the Loch Ness, this book is like a tour guide for anyone who ever wanted to visit the region.  Dr. Zachary Wallace is the world famous marine biologist who has returned home at the request of his father (Angus) who is on trial for murder.  Angus claims he didn't kill the victim, rather it was Nessie!  There is a lifetime of bad blood between father and son, and Zack is convinced Angus did the deed.  As the Loch Ness region fills with press and Nessie hunters, professional rivalry takes hold and Zack joins the search for the monster.    There is a love story here, a history lesson of sorts since Zachary is a direct descendant of Sir William Wallace, and a suspense filled sea tale with lots of bloody carnage to the very end.  Just the sort of story that keeps your interest long past a decent bedtime.    The Loch is an entertaining book that will appeal to readers of all ages!	2005-06-19
US	53069494	R1SBJTIYLA5EDN	0312926022	364942165	Sanibel Flats: A Doc Ford Novel (Doc Ford Novels)	Books	5	20	24	N	N	The birth of a laidback action hero	This was not my first Doc Ford novel; in fact my first and only other Randy Wayne White book, was his latest, Dead of Night.  I thought Dead of Night was very good, but Sanibel Flats-the first book in the Doc Ford series-was much better.  If you are reading this review then perhaps you have never read anything else by White, and if so, then I would recommend you start at the beginning.  Doc Ford and some of the characters that are central to the series are introduced and explained in this book.  It just makes for better understanding of everything that takes place in the previous novels if you read at least this one first.  I don't know if the rest of the books need to be read in order, but I plan to read them that way, so if you are interested in my impression of the others, as I read them, then just check back every so often by clicking on the \\"see all my reviews\\" link.    Having said all that, I have nothing but the highest praise for Sanibel Flats.  The plotting and pace were in my opinion perfect.  A page-turner for sure.  There was good character development even though some if the characters were a bit too over-the-top to be believable.  But isn't that why you read books like this?  I mean, it's fiction after all and the point of the story is to entertain! Some of the book was predictable, but the conclusion certainly was not.  Overall story-telling was superb and the dialogue is about as good as it gets, so too was the apparent research behind the facts in the book.  You get the impression that White is at the very least an ichthyologist who also happens be a great story teller!    There are a few (very few) mature sequences in this book, so be advised.  This book is a great read and in fact memorable. There are unique aspects of White's writing and the manner in which Doc Ford is portrayed, that will appeal, equally well, to both men and women. I am highly recommending it, and it has my highest, five star rating.	2005-06-13
US	53069494	R3Q3KEOAZXNOAP	1558539999	314217251	Great Maps of the Civil War: Pivotal Battles and Campaigns Featuring 32 Removable Maps (Museum in a Book, 2)	Books	5	86	88	N	N	Maps really mattered in the American Civil War	As the Forward to this beautifully rendered large format book states, \\"The war was first waged on paper. Before troops engaged in battle, both sides plotted strategy and tactics on the maps of the day. Knowing the field, understanding the terrain, recognizing the route of assault--and the line of retreat--could determine triumph or defeat.\\"  Perhaps more so than in wars since, the American Civil War was fought primarily by massing large troop formations against each other.  As a consequence, moving those men and their equipment using the most efficient and advantageous route became paramount. More often than not, occupation of key terrain meant victory, and therefore, arriving at the right spot, first, and with the most men was a strategic necessity in every encounter.    Typical in books of this nature, what you experience is a detailed depiction of the array of military forces produced on a map after the battle was fought.  What the author (William J. Miller) states as one of his primary objective in this book, was to provide the reader with a set of maps (in this case there are actually 32 removable maps) that were used by the participants in this war or would have commonly been available to them at the time.  And to present with these maps, the same depiction of the terrain as seen by the commanders as they planned their operations.  Miller's stated intent was to help the reader understand why a particular battle was fought the way that it was, rather than just how it was fought, as an after-the-fact.  Having said that, Miller does include a number of very detailed and artistically accurate post battlefield maps, like the famous and extremely collectible Bachelder Bird's-eye Panoramic of Gettysburg.  He also devotes a great deal space in the book to describing the technology of map making and reproduction at that time in history, and fills his book with interesting stories about the consequence of fighting blind or with gross geographically errors.    All in allthis is a wonderful book.  It is probably not the type of book to be read in one sitting or even sequentially, rather one to be kept as a reference and authoritative resource for reading and rereading.  It simply is a beautiful book, truly unique in its field, and more than worth the price that is sells for new.  It is a collectible filled with removable copies of collectible material.  My highest recommendation for the Civil War enthusiast!	2005-06-01
US	53069494	R166OKWWN5L82B	0345475445	304111465	Mr. Lucky: A Novel of High Stakes	Books	4	4	5	N	N	There is no such thing as luck	If there is one thing Tony Valentine and the readers of Jimmy Swain's novels know is that there is no such thing as luck.  Eventually the casinos will win, and you will lose. <br /> <br />When life-long loser Ricky Smith cheats death in a leap from the 8th floor balcony of a towering inferno, lands in the hotel pool, then walks across the street, barefoot and soaked, into a Vegas Casino and goes on the most improbable win streak imaginable, more than a few watchful eyebrows are raised.  Was it really possible for Ricky to roll more than 20 winners in a row at the craps table, or beat the Black Jack dealer using a strategy that defied logic? Even the roulette wheel was a victim of Ricky's extraordinary good fortune. <br /> <br />Before they pay Ricky the millions that he won, the owners of the Mint Casino want to know if it really was luck.  So, they turn to the best in the business, retired Atlantic City casino cop and scam expert, Tony Valentine.  Valentine heads to Ricky's hometown, Slippery Rock, North Carolina, to do a little background research into the life of its new most famous resident.  What he learns and what he is witness to is just as startling as Ricky's initial lucky streak.  The investigation puts Tony at odds with the local residents, and puts his life in jeopardy.  Can he explain what happened at the casino and the apparent good fortune that seems to continue for Ricky in Slippery Rock?  Read the book! <br /> <br />This story is well written, expertly researched, and fascinating enough to capture your attention in the first few pages and hold it to the very end.  This really is an interesting piece of fiction, convincingly authentic in its description of all the ways in which people try to cheat the casinos.	2005-06-01
US	53069494	RHP35M498ITGI	0743255054	791154205	The Sign of the Book	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Good books, I have read a few	And this book isn't all that bad.  Every good mystery writer has his or her unique little niche or consistent theme around which their stories develop. John Dunning is no exception.  Dunning's hero is bibliophile Cliff Janeway, an ex-cop (fired not retired) and owner of a Denver bookstore specializing in collectible editions.  All Janeway narratives are somehow framed around his passion for books and collecting them.  The fact that he was a cop and a very good one at that, allows him to see or notice things that others might not, which invariably leads him off in mysterious detective like adventures.    In The Sign of the Book, Janeway is off to Paradise, Colorado that is, to do a little detective work for his lady friend and defense attorney, Erin D'Angelo.  His investigation into the murder of the husband of D'Angelo's childhood girlfriend (Laura) is fraught peril and complications.  First Laura and Erin have not seen each other in a dozen or more years and-at least for Erin-the relationship is strained.  There is an ornery self-important Judge, a town cop (on a police force of two) who is a real bad penny, a crooked book dealer selling first editions with remarkably accurate forged signatures of the authors, and most importantly Laura has been jailed for this brutal murder and has admitted to it doing it.  But, is she really the one who killed him, or is there something more sinister at play here?    You'll have read the book to find out!  A short 353 pages that you can breeze through over the weekend.  Try to find an autographed copy!	2005-05-26
US	53069494	R321RX35SK9185	0743226712	53542661	1776	Books	5	56	62	N	N	Timely narrative about America's struggle for independence	What topic could be more current than independence or the passionate desire that all men have for freedom?  David McCullough brings his considerable literary talent to the fore in describing the fascinatingly pivotal year of 1776.  Just one year in an eight year long armed conflict with Great Britain, but a year packed with precedent and momentous events that united the thirteen disparate colonies in a common cause.  <br /> <br />This book focuses almost entirely on the actual armed struggle rather than the politics of that struggle.  Very little is mentioned about the Continental Congress or any of the debates that took place there.  All those men and their giant personalities remain on the periphery and instead we learn a great deal more about General George Washington, General Nathanael Green, Colonel Henry Knox, and to a lesser extent the commander of British forces, General William Howe.  McCullough's narrative shows us--time and time again--the very human qualities and frailties possessed by these men.  In the best of circumstance, war is basically a sustained period of unspeakable suffering, but for these patriots it was a time exacerbated by extreme inexperience, unseasonably harsh weather, shortages of food, muskets, gunpowder, clothing, shoes, and even pay.  Poor knowledge of proper field sanitation and personal hygiene created perfect conditions for the growth and spread of deadly diseases.  Smallpox flourished and actually plagued Washington's army without ceasing.  Fully aware of these handicaps, Washington and his men were tasked to defeat a professional military force that bettered them in ever respect.  The British land and sea forces were in fact the most powerful and successful military in the world at that time. <br /> <br />In spite of these overwhelming adversities, the men in this ragtag army gave all that they had for the cause of liberty and in the process these soldiers went from ordinary to extraordinary.  This is a uniquely informative andcompelling novel from one of America's premier historians.  It is in fact a timeless story that deserves constant retelling and David McCullough has done wonderfully with this rendition.	2005-05-24
US	53069494	R3CXP51MKC3YWR	0446352764	690907295	Double Whammy	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Pleasure-filled reading experience!	My first Hiaasen and an example of how useful reviews (reading other people's reviews) can be.  I found out about Hiaasen by reading someone else's review of a Tim Dorsey book. As a matter of fact, a good number of books I have read recently are books that other people said were good and judging by previous books they reviewed, it looked like they had tastes similar to mine.    About the book...this is pure reading entertainment. Hiaasen's wicked imagination is what makes the book so interesting.  He's written a typical mystery but the venue and the characters are anything but typical (television evangelism and professional bass fishing).  Hiaasen spends so much time with character development that it is impossible not to feel an attachment to these crazy people and concern for the impossible situations in which he puts them. Everyone knows that the people who fish, regularly lie about the fish they caught and the ones that got away, but in Double Whammy the men on the professional bass fishing circuit have stepped it up a notch by cheating and murdering to cover up their cheating.    These characters are all larger than life and the stunts they pull are zany and over the top, but amongst all the fun, there is a real social message here that Hiaasen is able to pull off without being offensive.      Laugh out loud funny in spots and humorous nearly throughout. It was a joy to read!	2005-05-24
US	53069494	R3DRKZSOT9GX13	0060763876	653774075	Map of Bones (Sigma Force)	Books	3	12	16	N	N	Could have easily been much better!	After reading all the other reviews I guess I must be the only reviewer that was not overly enthusiastic about this book.  I had not read anything from Rollins prior to this book, but it was the strength of the reviews, written here, that caused me to WANT to read the book.   <br /> <br />Map of Bones is not the Da Vinci Code.  It was not written in the same thought provoking and convincing voice as the Da Vinci Code, although it does appear well researched and could have been presented in a manner that truly could have resulted in something comparable to Dan Brown's book.  Likewise it is not a Cussler read, even though it appears that Rollins designed Sigma very similar to NUMA and that there is a remarkable similarity between Commander Gray Pierce and NUMA's Dirk Pitt, and Gray's short stocky wise-cracking sidekick Monk and Dirk Pitt's short stocky wise-cracking sidekick Al Giordino.  Gray and Monk are good, but annoyingly, they are still just learning to save the world and have not therefore mastered the task as Dirk and Al did many years ago. <br /> <br />My chief complaint is not with Rollins but rather it is with Rollins' editor.  This book could have been way better, much more absorbing, had the editor cut out a lot of needless explanation.  I read whole paragraphs, whole pages, that did nothing to build suspense or further the book along.  The book really is good and the premise is superb.  It is in fact the premise that is on par with the Da Vinci Code, but the editors are worlds apart. <br /> <br />Still I recommend it.  Hopefully a few other readers will tell Mr. Rollins what I have, because I believe he has the imagination to create much better stories in the future. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-05-18
US	53069494	RWU6H2LHLMCQR	0312335776	531903213	Fade	Books	4	49	53	N	N	More thrills from Kyle Mills!	I have read or listened to all of Kyle Mill's books and his newest book--Fade--is among the best!  In Salam al Fayed (Fade) Mills has created an exciting, somewhat zany, and resourceful character.  This is a book about revenge and the settling of old scores between men who were once partners and friends.  Fade is the ex-seal and elite special ops agent whose been pushed too far, one too many times. <br /> <br />In the beginning of the book Fade's career comes to an abrupt halt when he is nearly killed while attempting the rescue of a young Arab girl.  In a typical bureaucratic snafu (situation normal all \\"messed\\" up), the government denies him the complicated medical procedure that would have returned him to work and full health and as a result he is on his own with nothing to show for a life devoted to the most dangerous missions imaginable.  Now, years later, the government has once again come calling for his unique services.  Only this time it's Fade who has no desire to help.  Threatened and pursued by the government and in turn the police (on trumped up government charges/lies), Fade does the only thing he was ever trained to do when attacked.  He attacks back, and with all the skill and imagination that had at one time made him the very best in the business! <br /> <br />Thrilling and absorbing weekend end read!	2005-05-14
US	53069494	R3N2G16TQQ066X	076530788X	110180879	Dangerous Ground	Books	4	26	30	N	N	LOTS of techno with this sub thriller!	Medically disqualified naval aviator \\"weasels\\" a lateral transfer to the sub fleet and meets a lot of resistance from the noncoms and officers who made subs a first choice rather than a fallback.  In amongst all the technical aspects of this book--which serves to actually enhance interest--is a study in small group leadership, VERY similar to the canned scenarios that junior military officers study in their professional development schooling.  It is good stuff if you aren't familiar with leadership dynamics in the services.  This young officer works hard to catch a break with the crew, but also brings a very unique set of skills to the boat that will prove invaluable! The bigger story however is the covert mission this sub is on to retrieve data from just off the Russian coast.  Made more difficult by the presence of two attractive female scientists, one of which, has overall mission responsibility (read: command authority).  What they discover in the icy Russian waters is shocking and not what they expected and those wily Russians are willing to literally kill to protect the secret. <br /> <br />Great little undersea adventure with lots of character development thrown in for good measure!	2005-05-05
US	53069494	R2DQE01HINJP03	0316710601	293191939	4th of July	Books	5	115	133	N	N	Major League Whodunit!	Wow, what a story! There is a reason why James Patterson sells millions of books and great mysteries like 4th of July are the reason why. In the fourth installment of the popular Women's Murder Club series, Lieutenant Lindsay Boxer (the head of San Francisco Police Department's Homicide Division) is fighting to save her career after she is accused in a wrongful death suit, and at the same time struggling to help solve a series of grisly murders that have shaken the small town of Half Moon Bay, where she has retreated to chill out while on administrative leave from the SFPD. <br /> <br />As the story unfolds Lieutenant Boxer is hot on the trail of a couple of suspects that she and her partner believe are responsible for a recent string of seedy motel murders. Turns out the suspects are two very youthful teenage siblings, and in the process of apprehending these two, Boxer is forced to use deadly force to defend herself and her partner. When all is said and done, Boxer's partner is critically wounded and unconscious, Boxer herself has been hit twice, a 15 year old girl is dead, and her 13 year old brother is paralyzed for life from the neck down. Was it a legitimate use of deadly force? Not in the minds of the parents it wasn't. And the media has already found her guilty without the benefit of trail! <br /> <br />In Half Moon Bay someone is killing local residents in a gruesome fashion reminiscent of an unsolved homicide from Lieutenant Boxer's earliest days on the force. She is supposed to be laying low in the sleepy little seaside resort, gearing up the trail of her life, but when the killing starts, she finds herself hard pressed to remain disinterested and unengaged. Before long she is swept up in the investigation and a target for murder herself! <br /> <br />A great weekend read. The chapters just fly by! Also recommended are the other three stories in the Women's Murder Club series: 1st to Die, 2nd Chance, and 3rd Degree. Be the first on your block to collect all four books!	2005-05-02
US	53069494	R3OQBLZA0LW5HV	0375500901	330117464	The Kill Artist	Books	4	19	22	N	N	Nicely Plotted International Thriller!	This is the first book in the Gabriel Allon series by Daniel Silva.  Allon is the reluctant part time spy working for Israeli Intelligence whose covert skills are the stuff of legend within the small community of \\"secret agents\\".  His cover skills are those of professional art restoration, primarily \\"old masters\\" paintings and sculpture, for which his talents in that field are world renown.  <br /> <br />While this may be the first book (as of this review there are 5) in the series, it is not necessary to read this book first, since the book takes place at a time in the life of Gabriel Allon when he has already forsaken his work as a spy.  We learn about Allon's past and his initiation into the world of spying through flashback and his past is not necessarily central to the story.  Other books in the series take the reader into Gabriel's past just as effectively and therefore you don't really have to start with this book to understand what Gabriel is all about. <br /> <br />Daniel Silva has a true gift for captivating plot and character development.  The characters in his books are self reflecting and you really begin to understand the emotional turmoil that goes with the work of tracking down punishing international terrorists.  This book is an exciting weekend read!  Silva has Gabriel on the trail of Tariq the Palestinian terrorist bent on derailing the peace process.  Tariq and Gabriel are not strangers to one another, as Gabriel is the man who mercilessly killed Tariq's older brother and as revenge Tariq exploded a car that contained Gabriel's wife and only son.  The \\"bad blood\\" between these two enemies plays out across Europe and North America in a fast paced thriller that both memorable and very enjoyable.  The surprises and betrayals extend beyond the exciting climatic confrontation between Gabriel and Tariq, and are just part of what makes this book so entertaining.	2005-05-02
US	53069494	R66F6ZEST02C6	039915244X	812622062	Dead of Night (Doc Ford)	Books	5	48	52	N	N	Possibly the BEST storyteller you have never heard of!	After eleven previous Doc Ford novels, Randy Wayne White is only now being widely recognized as the talented craftsman that his long time fans have always known and appreciated.     To the newcomers, Doc Ford is the brainy marine biologist and owner of Sanibel Biological Supply, which he runs out of this \\"house on stilts\\" overlooking Dinkins Bay on Sanibel Island, Florida.  On occasion however, he is also a pest exterminator in a highly secretive and covert intelligence organization of the United States Government.  In this instance \\"pests\\" are of the human kind.    Trust me when I tell you to stick with this book.  Dead of Night starts out a little slow and may leave you wonder what all the fuss is about.  In fact the book didn't actually grab me until I was nearly 70 pages deep (67 to be exact).  Groundwork having been laid, the book turns to sticky paper as the action really heats up!  On the other hand there are places in this book where the urge to put it down is strong but NOT for the reasons you might think.  Truth is, the storytelling in this book gets so good at times that you can't help thinking \\"this is fabulous, but White can't possible keep the story going at this pace so I better set it down at a good point.\\"  Don't do it!  White just adds layer upon layer of interest and intrigue to his story and the deeper you go the better it gets.  This time White has Doc Ford trying to out think the mastermind behind an insideous plot to devalue real estate in Florida by way of ecological disaster on a grand scale.  Not only must Ford discover who is behind this new deadly form of terrorism but he must also find a way to contain the disaster before it spreads out of control.    Dead of Night is a thoroughly enjoyable read and I highly recommend it!	2005-04-24
US	53069494	R1QN4WXRBEZV3Z	0399152431	287820315	Prince of Fire	Books	5	39	42	N	N	Now THAT'S entertainment!	An absolutely fabulous story and without a doubt the most enjoyable book I have read in a long time.  Daniel Silva has proven once again that he is a gifted storyteller and one of the best at international espionage and intrigue. <br /> <br />This fascinating Silva book is another in the Gabriel Allon series.  For those of you who don't know, Allon is the physically underwhelming yet world renowned art restorer, who lives a double life in the Israeli Intelligence Service.  Once \\"activated\\" Allon has no peer as the secret protector of Israeli security.  Allon finds the really bad guys, the ones that nobody else wants to track.  Allon goes where all others fear to tread and brings the bad guys to justice, whether that means the justice of the court, the justice of some form of imprisonment, or the justice of the assassin's bullet. <br /> <br />In this book Allon reluctantly abandons his precious work in Vienna, at the Chapel of San Giavanni Crisostomo, where he has spent months on the restoration of a famous Bellini altarpiece.  His mission is a search for the terrorist mastermind behind a recent horrific and deadly bombing of the Israeli Embassy in Rome.  All indications are that there is much more death and destruction to follow, so Gabriel is in a rush to find this terrorist before he strikes again.  Along the way he learns that the life of his target and his own life are inextricably interwoven.  The chase, which does not disappoint, covers a lot of ground and takes the reader from Rome, to Venice, Cairo, London, Paris and Jerusalem, and along the way Silva gives a factual history lesson from 1910 to the present, on the struggles between the Palestinians and the Israelis.  This history lesson alone is almost worth of the price of the book! <br /> <br />I have read the comparisons others have made to Silva's writing and I will add a comparison of my own.  In Silva I see an early Ludlum.  I certainly feel the same sort of thrill reading Silva that I did more than 25years ago reading Ludlum.  Silva's books are every bit as exciting, the plots are equal to or better than Ludlum when he was at his best.  Silva has my unqualified recommendation; you simply can not go wrong reading one of his books!	2005-03-31
US	53069494	R3I161MHWFHDGH	0060735023	396458551	Lost Lake	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Military-Politico Thriller Gives a Good Ride!	Like a James Bond movie that begins with a huge stunt before the opening credits even scroll by, this book jumps right into the action with a vicious murder of a U.S. Congressman.  The gruesome event actually happens nearly 20 years before the rest of the book takes place, but is central to the predicament the story's characters now find themselves.  <br /> <br />The main players are: General Wingate the retired hard-charging Army General now running for President and someone who will do anything to keep secret the illegal murderous unit he ran while on active duty.  His daughter Vanessa who witnessed the murder of the congressman and hates her father because she believes he was responsible for the death of her mother and much more.  Carl Rice, was once Vanessa's high school boyfriend and is now a former army captain who served in General Wingate's secret unit, and Ami Vergano the young single mom and small time lawyer who will get swept up in the action and forced into defending Carl after he becomes involved in a scuffle that turns deadly at Little League game where Ami's son was playing.  Little known to Ami though, is who Carl actually is, that Carl has murdered time and time again for General Wingate and has been on the run and in hiding from Wingate for the past twenty years.  The incident at the ball field and the subsequent press coverage start in motion a series of events which make this book the thriller that it is.   <br /> <br />What makes a good thriller?  Well it has a have a great plot, creative subterfuge, devious betrayal, larger-than-life characters and almost always, murderous violence.  This book by Margolin has all that and is a captivatingly good story.  I recommend it as an easy, exciting read.   <br /> <br />If you really enjoy thrillers, one of the all time best is, Eye of the Needle by Ken Follett.	2005-03-27
US	53069494	R3CDGGO1GC7U9F	0385504284	202497183	The Forgotten Man: A Novel (Elvis Cole Novels)	Books	5	27	30	N	N	What's the best thing about this novel?	Well the best thing is this book was my FIRST Robert Crais novel. That means, as best I can figure, there are eleven more books of his to read before the next one comes out!  So I have lots to look forward to and can imagine that long time Crais fans probably envy me.    Since I have not read anything else Crais has done, I am able to judge this book on its own merits without comparing it to his other stories. That said, it is well written, the story flows from scene to scene in an orderly and logical fashion. I know it sounds clich but this book was hard to put down. The chapters are short and it is easy to read JUST ONE MORE chapter before going to bed. There was plenty of action, which is what you expect from detectives, and there were lots of witty repartee and cracking wise between the characters. Most of the best lines come as Crais let's us hear the thinking of his characters, so the lines aren't necessarily spoken to anyone.    Elvis Cole (the man around whom the book is written) is a great PI, extremely introspective with lots of endearing qualities, and if you enjoy reading authors who develop their cast over the course of a series of books, then I would have to say that Robert Crais has the franchise for you. He seems every bit as good as Robert B. Parker, perhaps more so since this book has the \\"thriller thing\\" going for it.      Highly recommended and you won't be disappointed!	2005-03-22
US	53069494	R14H7UVVIHXLVS	0399152598	742608578	Black Wind (A Dirk Pitt Novel, No. 18)	Books	4	18	18	N	N	True Story!	No just kidding, but few writers put together a more engrossing story than King Clive!  Well known to loyal followers is the fact that Clive employed his son Dirk--namesake in the Dirk Pitt franchise--to collaborate on the Black Wind plot and to write the first ten chapters of this book.  You'd be hard pressed to notice where the father picks up and the son leaves off, such is the intimacy with which Dirk Cussler knows these characters!         In the usual fashion, Cussler's novel begins in the past, nearly sixty years hence, during the last days of the Second World War.  A super secret, last gasp Japanese sub mission to alter the inevitable outcome of the war.  What's the secret? A deadly germ agent designed to inflict horrific casualties all along America's west coast.  You'll have to read the book to discover the outcome of this dastardly deed, but it is this same biological contaminant that sets the stage for the present day derring-do of Dirk Pitt (the elder), NUMA's new Director; his son Dirk Pitt (the younger), a NUMA Special Project leader; and Pitt's sanguine daughter, Summer, also a NUMA operator.  The action is fast paced, the scraps are too close for comfort, and the basic scenario is entirely plausible, as least in as far the purveyors of evil are willing to go to achieve their selfish intentions.        I highly recommend this book as a pivotal piece in the Pitt collection.  It represents the perfect spot, for a newcomer of this 25 year long saga, to join in and enjoy Cussler's fiction without having to know anything about the novels that led up to this point. Enjoy!	2005-03-13
US	53069494	R3HS4A30H6K449	0375508589	62929266	Shadow Divers: The True Adventure of Two Americans Who Risked Everything to Solve One of the Last Mysteries of World War II	Books	5	58	58	N	N	Breakout work by a gifted Storyteller	This retelling of true events is as good and as close as you can get to the excitement of made up fiction.  Admittedly the author, Robert Kurson, had good material with which to work, but a writer of lesser talent could have easily botched this little gem of an opportunity.  As it is, Kurson's ability to grab the reader and maintain his/her full attention throughout a story that spans more than six years, is a testament to his writing prowess.  <br /> <br />Kurson puts us in the center of the action as we learn about the discovery of a mysterious submarine shipwreck--not one of ours--just 60 miles east of Pt. Pleasant, NJ.  In nautical terms this is literally in our backyard.   Resting on the bottom of the ocean at 233 feet, it is a depth that is tantalizingly close, yet dangerously deep and accessible to all but a few of the most experienced deep diving specialists.   <br /> <br />Central to the story are the truly larger than life main characters: hard drinking rough hewn John Nagle, Captain of the dive-boat and world renowned wreck diving legend; two peas in opposing pods, John Chatterton and Richie Kohler, wreck diving enthusiasts who idolize Nagle and only hope to share in some of the excitement that he has experienced in the past; and a rather odd assortment of other players who come and go at different times.  Along the way we witness relationships destroyed, marriages ruined, jobs forfeited, sanity questioned, and even lives tragically lost, all in the single minded pursuit to solve a seemingly unsolvable puzzle. <br /> <br />Kurson pulls it all together nicely, and without revealing the end, I will just say that this book is a richly rewarding experience for the reader.  Good books like this leave me wanting to know so much more about the characters, sort of \\"where are they now?\\"  Fortunately, the adventures experienced by these fascinating men don't end with the telling of this story; John Chatterton, and to a lesser extent Richie Kohler, can be seen quiteregularly on the History Channel as the hosts of the Deep Sea Detectives docudrama television series.	2005-03-04
US	53069494	R3682TXVU1VONT	0066214130	57180289	State of Fear	Books	4	34	51	N	N	More Thoroughly Researched Than Most Fiction	This little novel is a Hot Potato and just like his main character George Morton a.k.a. Concerned Citizen of the Year, Crichton is sure to have made a few enemies with this writing.      Wealthy enviro-philanthropist George Morton reverses course when confronted with scientific evidence that contradicts all he has been led to believe about environmentalism.  His secret investigation exposes him to the unseemly side of fund raising and doctored evidence, and then nearly costs him his life.  What happens next is a frantic round-the-world cat and mouse (read expos'e) of hot topic \\"save the earth\\" pet projects, where Crichton uses his immense knowledge and writing skill to not only entertain but to enlighten.      Perhaps more so than in most of his previous books, you have to suspend disbelief.  As is possible in a 600 page book, Crichton introduces and explains just about every imaginable counter argument to the claims made by the environmentalists of the past 20 years.  In so doing he puts his protagonist through some rather unbelievable circumstance and endowes him with more knowledge than the Internet.  Still, the book entertains, although not nearly as much as some of his more recent work like Prey or Timeline.    If you are a predisposed environmentalist and truly believe we are all naturally inclined to foul the bowl from which we eat, then you are not going to be able to enjoy this book.  More likely than not, you will find it sacrilegious.  You may even believe that Crichton is one of those rare closet Republican Hollywood insiders and someone who voted for Bush...of all people!	2005-02-27
US	53069494	RK3FY3MSZEO6C	0375705244	406271874	Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Provides Fresh Insight!	One measure of a book done well is that it makes you want to learn more about the subject.  By this measure alone, Founding Brothers is a great book.      There has been some criticism of the book and it may be a tough read for some, but if you can get past the rather long Preface the rest of the book is thoroughly enjoyable.  Ellis begins his book with a chapter on the Hamilton-Burr duel and he does so in a fashion that captures the reader in a tantalizing fashion.  More like fiction than fact! Each succeeding chapter introduces an array of founding brothers, providing insight into their lives, relationships, and more importantly their political differences.    At a time when the trend has been to soft-peddle American History, downplaying the roles played by these very important men, Ellis does us a great service with this trend reversing narrative.  These men knew they were on the stage and they knew their words and deeds would be recorded for future generations.  Ellis points out that if they appear like actors to us that is because they almost were.  But what Ellis has clearly shown, is that for these men, politics was intensely personal, and while they may have come together as one to assert their independence from Britain, their views about the future of governance in the United States varied greatly and was hotly contested.      If you think you might be interested in the issues we faced as a budding nation and the personalities that held us together when there were those who would have splintered our union, this book will more than meet your needs.  Ellis has a real gift for bringing the past to life and you would be hard pressed to find a better introduction to these famous personalities.	2005-02-21
US	53069494	R2N49AXT6CUN9D	0895260425	746136200	Winning the Future: A 21st Century Contract with America	Books	5	23	29	N	N	In a word,  PRESCIENT	As has become the norm, Mr. Gingrich is one step ahead of his contemporaries.  This book is not more of the same just reworded to make a buck or check a block, rather it is a very specific prescription for what ails the country.  Gringrich covers nearly the whole spectrum and some of what he says will definitely surprise you!  Who would have thought that in the Post 9/11 era, someone in the know would be an advocate for making the VISA process simplier.  But Mr. Gingrich makes a reasoned arguement that has me convinced he is absolutely right.  Who knows better than a historian, that those who forget the past are condemned to repeat it?  Gingrich recalls the step of the past that we took as a nation that made us worldwide leaders of science and innovation, and what we need to do right now to maintain that preemminence. <br /> <br />Mr. Gingrich covers the war on terror, the role of religion in the public square, the economy, the national education system, the health care system, the legal system from top to bottom, social security, and even overhauling the federal government.  And everything he mentions, he does with convincing knowledge and authority.  If this book doesn't make you think long and hard, little else will! <br /> <br />I have read books by politicians who wanted to be president before, and I don't recall any that were as prescriptive as Newt has been in this book.  It would surprise me if this in not his first salvo in the 2008 race for the presidency.	2005-02-03
US	53069494	R3P5W2788WXY8C	1593760361	622250536	Hannah Coulter: A Novel	Books	5	156	156	N	N	Music to the senses....	Dear Mr. Berry, <br /> <br />   I don't know if you will ever see this, but it is the only way I know of letting you know how much your stories mean to me.  I read your books with a highlighter, as there are just too many meaningful passages not to be marked and referenced over and over again.  You certainly have a gift for words.  The melodious nature of your writing is as addicting as is anything else I have ever experienced.  The stories you tell and retell about the citizens of Port William, are for me lessons of a sort.  For those of us who sometime wonder what love is, what kindness means, and what it means to be part of something greater than self-serving interests, well, you provide an extraordinary example in your wonderful work. <br /> <br />Thank you so much, for the pleasure I get when I read what you have written.	2005-01-20
US	53069494	R3NQ6OKWP0PN8Y	0743225708	281016025	Bringing Down the House: The Inside Story of Six M.I.T. Students Who Took Vegas for Millions	Books	4	6	6	N	N	An Interesting Book	I suppose you could say this was a page-turner, since I did, and that it was a successful book since it left me wanting more, but I felt like the author left out a lot of detail that would have made the book even more of a forceful experience for the reader.  Still, I am recommending the book.  It won't necessarily add to your body of knowledge, but it will keep your interest.  If you like the writing style of Mark Bowden, then you will probably like the way Mezrich writes.  They are similar.  You can read it easily in two evenings after work.	2005-01-19
US	53069494	R1HWBZAH24C5ZB	0385510454	797048445	The Broker: A Novel	Books	5	14	19	N	N	Great Entertainment!	First and foremost Mr. Grisham is an entertainer.  The price of this book is cheap compared to the pleasure that comes from reading it.  Too often we are unnecessarily critical, especially when it comes to the writers who have written well in the past.  Was this book one of Grisham's best?  I really don't know, but I do know that I read it in one sitting and my biggest regret is that I know I'll have to wait year or more for another book, like this, from him.  I just hope he never stops writing.  For those of you looking for technical flaws, well there is one on page 329 that gets repeated a number of times in the following 10-15 pages.  See if you can spot it.  Thanks Mr. Grisham for the great read!!	2005-01-18
