US	53069029	R15A39N3U7KTSD	0226042758	622629788	Plato's Symposium: A Translation by Seth Benardete with Commentaries by Allan Bloom and Seth Benardete	Books	4	11	22	N	N	Plato, bloom and Benardete	What you get here is 1) a new translation of Symposium by Benardete 2) Allan Bloom's Ladder of Love, which was previously published in his book Love and Friendship 3) a short, though not unworthy article by Benardete. Bloom dominates, so if you already have Love and Friendship and a copy of Symposium you might feel gyped because the only new thing is Benardete's small article. If however you don't have Love and Friendship and don't really care for Rousseau or the nineteen century novel, this book is a definite option. Bloom's book is rather unwieldly and unfocused. This book is most certainly focused.	2001-11-22
US	53069029	R32LNUZHX096Z0	086554655X	402659550	Kierkegaard's Socratic Art	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	was Kierkegaard, too, among the prophets	It was a proverb in Israel, \\"Was Saul, too, among the prophets (1 Samuel 10.12)?\\" Saul was a madman and prophesied out of his madness. Does that also make him a prophet? One questions whether Kierkegaard, too, was among the philosophers (e.g. see Alistair Hannay's comparatively inept handling of this question at the beginning of his Kierkegaard. His problem is that, while there is much unphilosophical about Kierkegaard, Hannay's book is part of the \\"Arguments of the Philosophers\\" series. To argue in a book labeled \\"Arguments of Philosophers\\" that his subject is no philosopher  would seemingly set him afoul of Godel's theorem.). Daise's theory seems to be tha Kierkegaard was not a philosopher, which he argues persuasively. All the more so, because he picks up on his real opposition. Not Hannay who claims Kierkegaard is some sort of para-philosopher, but Strawser who, in his book, Both-And, claims that the question is indeterminable, that Kierkegaard left a corpus than may be consistently interpreted in any of two ways or, as he provocatively puts it, you can't deconstruct Kierkegaard because he has already deconstructed himself. Daise argues, successfully I think, that this interpretation is superficial and that there are grounds, within the individual documents and the corpus as a whole that lead us to a single valid interpretation.	2001-10-15
US	53069029	ROS5EUV9OIJ23	0226776859	886574757	Leo Strauss On Plato's Symposium	Books	5	27	29	N	Y	Stunning clarity	Symposium is my favorite dialogue and as such I've read a number of commentaries (Rosen, Allen and Dover). This one is very special. Strauss has a reach, a clarity and an elegance that is stunning. Let me give you an example. Strauss claims that Aristophanes' The Frogs was the model for the Symposium. Never thought of that before, but when you think about it, it's obvious. Yes, a very powerful idea. This level is sustained throughout the book. You may not agree with everything Strauss says, but even where you disagree you will find him profitable.	2001-09-13
US	53069029	RY6SZ5ZXJ6AD3	0800614283	5847865	Liturgies of the Western Church	Books	5	11	12	N	Y	Liturgical Sourcebook	This book is mainly a collection of texts with short introductions. And what you get is a sampler of Eucharist service from several of the major Christian denominations. You get a copy of the Tridentine Mass, Luther's DeutschMesse (in english translation of course) and the Eucharist from the first Book of Common Prayer. Also several other Protestant Eucharistic liturgies. The emphasis is less on telling you about comparative liturgy and more on letting you compare.	2000-10-31
US	53069029	R3VBM87CS9BSKD	0521409322	787182030	Listening to the Cicadas: A Study of Plato's Phaedrus (Cambridge Classical Studies)	Books	5	22	25	N	N	Platonic Pharmacology	For twenty-five hundred years we assumed Phaedrus was a badly put together  dialogue, an early work, a botched job. Only recently have we decided to take  a different tack and think about it as though it were a Masterwork. This is  probably the result of literary criticism which places Phaedrus, on the basis  of it's literary similarity to other works of that period, not at the  beginning of Plato's career, but at the end of the middle period when he was  at the height of his powers. It seems ironic that a book that claims that one  of the deficiencies of writing is a book's inability to defend itself against misinterpretation should suffer such a fate.<br />When we assume that the Phaedrus is well written and the author is cogent,  then we get commentaries on it like this one that takes the imagery, myth and  eroticism of the Phaedrus seriously and explicate it brilliantly. Ferrari  covers all the various aspects of the Phaedrus, showing that the parts do  make a consistent whole, even a beautiful and profound one. Plato's aim is to  show how rhetoric and philosophy differ from each other, as do their  practitioners. This he does by having the two interlocutors present three  speeches and then speak about the speeches. The speeches are about love,  authentic and inauthentic.<br />What Plato does in Phaedrus cannot be called psychology, it must be called  psychomythology. The problem is to comment without demythologizing (Socrates  denounces demythologizing as activity for the wise man with nothing better to  do). Rather, Ferrari respectfully explicates the myth as myth (unlike Pirsig  in Zen and Motorcycle Maintenance), achieving a clarity and fertility of  interpretation that is very persuasive. It has to be persuasive because in  the end he takes on Jacques Derrida and his famous interpretation of Phaedrus  &quot;Plato's Pharmacy&quot; (In his book &quot;Dissemination&quot;).<br />Because of the profoundity of its subject matter, this book is no easy read. But Ferrari helps us out by avoiding academese and writing in a clear, even elegant style. One seldom reads a book so completely satisfying as this onerrari helps us out by avoiding academese and writing in a clear, even elegant style. One seldom reads a book so completely satisfying as this one	2000-10-16
US	53069029	R2XIJUUQC1VD5Y	0691020728	742730332	The Concept of Irony/Schelling Lecture Notes : Kierkegaard's Writings, Vol. 2	Books	4	54	60	N	N	An immature work	There are four things you need to remember about this book:<br />1) It is  Kierkegaard's doctoral thesis and he bears a great load of hostility  against his professors. He works this out passive-aggressively, by writing  in a near impenetrable style. They are testing him by making him defend a  thesis and he, in his turn, is testing them to see whether they can figure  out exactly what thesis he is defending. He claims that Irony, the concept  he is explicating, is \\"infinite absolute negativity.\\" Certainly his thesis  is. The thesis is not just about Irony, it enacts Irony. The thesis shows  him the master of Irony.<br />2) The thesis seems hostile to Socrates who,  throughout his authorship he always speaks of with approval. This is  because among the contemporary witnesses he chooses to credit Aristophanes  above Xenophon and Plato. Aristophanes' portrayal is indeed negative.  Aristophanes is clearly hostile to Socrates. Socrates even blames  Aristophanes at his trial for poisoning the peoples' minds against him.<br />3) He later repudiated the idea that Irony is \\"infinite absolute  negativity,\\" claiming that at the time he was an \\"Hegelian fool.\\"  Kierkegaard claims he did not, in his thesis, appreciate certain positive  aspects of Socratic Irony, qualities that made Socrates a great ethicist.  Certainly, he would never have believed Aristophanes except that he  confirms Hegel's view of Socrates.<br />4) This book does not belong with the  other books of his authorship (starting with Either/Or). While it is  brilliantly shrewd, it does not carry out Kierkegaard's program. While it  illustrates a mastery of technique, it is not a mature work in the sense  that it lacks the his characteristic questions and concerns. This is the  source of a negativity absent from his later works.<br />If you want to read  a classic on the subject, read this book. An acquaintance with Xenophon,  Plato and Aristophanes is vital. Moreover, patience with Kierkegaard's  infuriating style is also a must.style is also a must.	2000-08-07
US	53069029	R1CRAGNO46C9S5	0691020116	165585636	The Concept of Anxiety: A Simple Psychologically Orienting Deliberation on the Dogmatic Issue of Hereditary Sin (Kierkegaard's Writings, VIII) (v. 8)	Books	5	38	41	N	N	Sin and Psychology	In an important Journal entry (VII 1 A 181) Kierkegaard describes the dialectic of human freedom in relation to divine omnipotence. This  dialectic is difficult to grasp in that it differs from that of relative  power. Relative power exists in its use, in the extent to which the  powerful one can inflict his/her will on others. Relative power has to with  the overcoming of opposition. Kierkegaard argues that absolute power need  not exert itself in this way. There is no effective opposition to its  purposes. It shows might, not in force, but in allowing its purposes to be  accomplished freely by those who freely choose to cooperate with or to  oppose its'purposes, but, in either case, simply further them. The Concept  of Anxiety takes this theological paradox and applies it to psychology. The  \\"ground\\" of anxiety (if we may here speak of ground where all is  groundlessness) is the ambivalence of freedom. One must choose and in the  choosing one's heart is revealed. It is so because there is no compulsion  to our choice, not our biology nor our upbringing nor even God. This  freedom, therefore manifests itself as dizziness, as vertigo, as anxiety,  because possibility opens out before us as an abyss. Anxiety is a complete  ambivalence, a sympathetic antipathy and an antipathetic sympathy, a  simultaneous attraction to and repulsion from our own freedom. The leads  our author (Vigilius Haufniensis \\"The Watcher of Copenhagen\\") into his  brilliant discussion of the Myth of the Fall and human sin. The \\"Dogmatic  Issue of Hereditary sin\\" is to be mapped on to human psychology. Oddly  enough, this is no slavish following of Christian Dogma as it is taught.  Haufniensis makes a decisive break with Christian dogmatics since Augustine  in asserting that \\"Hereditary Sin\\" is not transmitted by sex. We are do not  inherit sin. We are not born into sin. By anxiety, sin enters the world.  Anxiety, not birth, is the proper antecedent to sin. Kierkegaard interprets  the Myth of the Fall as the story of every human being. Adam is the race.  We are, each of us, Adam. We have all of us committed an original sin. We  had no idea, prior to sinning the first time, what sin meant. We only knew  the anxiety. Having sinned, we know now that, by a sin, sin enters the  world. Sin is never necessary, it is always a free act. Sin is chosen and  once chosen reveals itself as a trap. Then our anxiety reaches a new  height. This heightened anxiety may lead us to perdition or to seek God's  forgiveness, thus is the heart revealed. The only thing I can compare this  work to is Nietzsche's \\"Genealogy of Morals\\", and that compares to this as  lightning to the lightning bug. It is a very brilliant, if difficult work.  There is, however, another important reason for reading this book: its'  sister and repetition is \\"Sickness Unto Death\\" and reading this one greatly  enhances the experience of reading that.Fall as the story of every human being. Adam is the race.  We are, each of us, Adam. We have all of us committed an original sin. We  had no idea, prior to sinning the first time, what sin meant. We only knew  the anxiety. Having sinned, we know now that, by a sin, sin enters the  world. Sin is never necessary, it is always a free act. Sin is chosen and  once chosen reveals itself as a trap. Then our anxiety reaches a new  height. This heightened anxiety may lead us to perdition or to seek God's  forgiveness, thus is the heart revealed. The only thing I can compare this  work to is Nietzsche's \\"Genealogy of Morals\\", and that compares to this as  lightning to the lightning bug. It is a very brilliant, if difficult work.  There is, however, another important reason for reading this book: its'  sister and repetition is \\"Sickness Unto Death\\" and reading this one greatly  enhances the experience of reading that.	2000-08-04
US	53069029	R2Y8DM31VLRWQ2	1566631521	483156473	Kierkegaard in 90 Minutes (Philosophers in 90 Minutes Series)	Books	3	12	15	N	N	Danger, Will Robertson	This book should have CAUTION written on it, as it is dangerous. Let me give  you a few examples:<br />1) On page 7 it says, &quot;Kierkegaard wasn't  really a philosopher at all. At least not in the academic sense.&quot; If  we say that academic philosophy does not recognize Kierkegaard as a  philosopher we must also recognize that Kierkegaard thinks academic  philosophy is a nest of charlatans and liars who have no right to judge his  work. For Kierkegaard, Socrates is the paradigmatic philosopher. Imagine,  for a moment, Plato's dialogue Protagoras. There is Socrates, who receives  no money for teaching because he has nothing to teach. There are, on the  other hand, the sophists, who claim to be able to teach the  Sciences, real  knowledge, in return for pay. Who does the academic philosopher resemble:  Socrates or the sophist? Who does Kierkegaard more resemble? If Kierkegaard  is not a philosopher, how is Socrates one? Certainly, Kierkegaard never  claimed to be a philosopher (despite his Doctorate in Philosophy), calling  himself a poet, but it must always be remembered that this is because he  holds academic philosophers in contempt.<br />2) On page 8 is the claim that  Kierkegaard invented existentialism, a claim about as absurd as Socrates  invented philosophy or Jesus, Christianity. Sartre invented existentialism  and then enlisted &quot;precursors&quot; to support the  claim that he  hadn't. Existentialism is one interpretation of Kierkegaard's work and is  probably not the best one. Now that Post-Modernism is all the rage,  Kierkegaard is being seen as Post-Modern (see Both-And by Michael  Strawser). The problem is that what you bring to Kierkegaard is what you  get out of him and if you are looking for existentialism in Kierkegaard,  you will find it, whether its there or not.<br />3) In the chapter on  &quot;Life and Works&quot; one of the most pervasive and difficult to  dispell error about Kierkegaard is presented as fact. The author describes  the pseudonymous authorship as Kierkegaard's attempt to disguise himself.  This is true enough. The problem is that a pseudonym did nothing, in a  small  town like Copenhagen, to disguise his identity. Everybody in town  knew who the author of Either/Or was. So clearly to say as the author did,  &quot;Once again Kierkegaard found himself in a pickle. . . .Put simply he  wanted to hide behind a pseudonym, yet at the same time he wished to make  it obvious it was  a pseudonym&quot;(p. 35) is disingenuous. Hello, I think  everybody is going to figure out that A and B are not real names. I don't  think he needs to signal people that these are pseudonyms. So what has  Kierkegaard got to hide. Himself. He is trying to get free of his own  history. He creates, not just pseudonyms, but characters which themselves  embody philosophical ideas. By coming to understand the expressions,  concerns and moods of these characters, a careful reader comes to  understand a philosophical idea (for instance, in either /Or A embodies the  aesthetic existence sphere and B the ethical sphere). There is a danger  therefore in talking too much about Regine Olsen or Michael P. Kierkegaard  as the source or meaning of Kierkegaard's  pseudonymous works. Then one has  a source for pat answers about Kierkegaard's meaning with no real  interpretive depth. As long as one continues talking about Kierkegaard  upbringing or his engagement one risks a surface interpretation displacing  any hope of a deeper understanding.<br />I suggest Douglas Mullen's book  Self-deception and cowardice in the Present Age, or Parables of Kierkegaard  by Thomas Oden as alternatives.seudonymous authorship as Kierkegaard's attempt to disguise himself.  This is true enough. The problem is that a pseudonym did nothing, in a  small  town like Copenhagen, to disguise his identity. Everybody in town  knew who the author of Either/Or was. So clearly to say as the author did,  &quot;Once again Kierkegaard found himself in a pickle. . . .Put simply he  wanted to hide behind a pseudonym, yet at the same time he wished to make  it obvious it was  a pseudonym&quot;(p. 35) is disingenuous. Hello, I think  everybody is going to figure out that A and B are not real names. I don't  think he needs to signal people that these are pseudonyms. So what has  Kierkegaard got to hide. Himself. He is trying to get free of his own  history. He creates, not just pseudonyms, but characters which themselves  embody philosophical ideas. By coming to understand the expressions,  concerns and moods of these characters, a careful reader comes to  understand a philosophical idea (for instance, in either /Or A embodies the  aesthetic existence sphere and B the ethical sphere). There is a danger  therefore in talking too much about Regine Olsen or Michael P. Kierkegaard  as the source or meaning of Kierkegaard's  pseudonymous works. Then one has  a source for pat answers about Kierkegaard's meaning with no real  interpretive depth. As long as one continues talking about Kierkegaard  upbringing or his engagement one risks a surface interpretation displacing  any hope of a deeper understanding.<br />I suggest Douglas Mullen's book  Self-deception and cowardice in the Present Age, or Parables of Kierkegaard  by Thomas Oden as alternatives.	2000-07-27
US	53069029	R2KXS97RA0UY3E	0691020264	427180751	Fear and Trembling/Repetition : Kierkegaard's Writings, Vol. 6	Books	5	31	44	N	N	The meaning of Repetition	These two books are twins: published on the same day, with the same purpose: the failed explications of an essential Kierkegaardian concept: Repetiton. Why, when an author clearly knows the meaning of a concept in  his own terminology, would he fail to be able to explain it? Why would an  author make failure part of the purpose of a book? There is a reasons. The  authors of both books are pseudonyms. Kierkegaard does not use nom de  plumes. He creates characters and then writes the book from that  perspective. Johannes de Silento (the author of &quot;Fear and  Trembling&quot;)is a poet. Constantine Constantinus (the author of  &quot;Repetition&quot;) is an experimental psychologist. These characters  attempt to define repetition, but their methods will not allow them.  Repetition is not reducible to poetry (romanticism) or science (reason).  Now why is that? It is necessary to Kierkegaard's project (the book  &quot;Repetition&quot; shows that it is necessary) because his project is  essentially Christian and Revelation cannot be derived philosophically  (Hence Constantine Constantinus' failure). But how do you get to discuss  Christian ideas, then? By an elaborate method of importation and  laundering. For instance, Constantine Constantinus introduces Repetition by  comparing it to Platonic recollection. But the real source for importation  is the Old Testament. Fear and Trembling is an elaborate interpretation of  Abraham's sacrifice of Isaac. Repetition ends with the Young Man (the  guinea pig for Constantine Constantius' psychological experiments) writting  on the Book of Job. In each case, something is sacrificed and yet the one  who sacrifices finds the sacrifice restored to him. Much ink has been   spilt showing how this copncept relates to Kierkegaard's abortive  engagement or his relations to his father (and I am sure SK appreciates  this muddying of the waters; he never liked an audit trail), but the  primary image is that of God the Father sacrificing hisSon, and, through  the Ressurrection (as Johannes de Silento would say, by virtue of the  absurd) receiving him back again.	2000-07-12
US	53069029	R32JYPIEFI0QOR	0393313026	381513257	The Enlightenment: The Rise of Modern Paganism (Vol. 1) (Enlightenment an Interpretation) (v. 1)	Books	5	187	219	N	N	Crush the Infamy!	Unlike the reformation there was no counter-enlightenment. The Church was ineffectual in mounting an offense against a movement whose claim was that she was an out-moded relic, not to be listened to in a modern,  technological world. How do you fight the charge that you are irrelevant  without admitting irrelevancy? How do you fight the disease without  spreading it? And as Peter Gay shows, the philosophes needed no help in  spreading the word. They were a brilliant collection of Scientists,  Philosophers and writers spread out over the west for almost three  generations. They included such luminaries as Voltaire, David Hume, Adam  Smith, Jeremy Bentham, Immanuel Kant, J. J. Rousseau and so on, even to  this country (we recognize two philosophes, Thomas Jefferson and Benjamin  Franklin on our currency). They were involved in a conspiracy (literally)  to change their world. And to give you some idea how successful they were,  the first generation lived in a world ruled exclusively by hereditary  monarchy; the last lived to see both the French and American revolutions  and the beginnings of democracy.<br />The philosophes taught a cheerful kind  of self-reliance. Salvation was not to be found in the heavens above, but  in the human race. They fought to replace barbaric institutions with new  modes of thought that would inspire, not oppress, the human spirit. New  modes of government (democracy). New methods of tending the sick (see  Foucault's \\"Birth of the Clinic\\") and the insane (see Foucault's \\"Madness  and Civilization\\"). New modes of punishing offenders (see Foucault's  \\"Discipline and Punish\\"). New modes of thought. To examine our existing  institutions we need not go back to the Middle Ages (the term \\"Middle Ages\\"  is an example of enlightenment newspeak: the Middle ages designates nothing  more than period the West lay fallow between the death of ancient paganism  and it rebirth in the &quot;Renaissance.&quot; It is a way of saying that  while the Church ruled Europe, nothing of consequence happened) except as a  point of contrast. They changed everything.<br />We have an odd relation to  these philosophes. We recognize them as simplistic, overbearing,  overconfident and, in many ways, flat out wrong. We also recognize them as  the founding fathers of our world. They assured us, get rid of religion and  wars would cease from the world, that religion (or rather specific  religions e.g. Christianity) was the source of bigotry on the earth. So we  did as they suggested and the wars just got bigger, the auto-de-fe's were  replaced by concentration camps and the savagery they told us would  disappear simply grew when the institutions built to contain them were  dismantled.<br />They seemed to believe that we could have the results of  Christian morality, without Christianity, if we simply replace religion  with reason. The problem is that Christianity is a religion with a specific  content and reason has no content at all. When you make the move you end up  with a categorical imperative that we can debate the validity of, but is no  real morality as it is effective only over individuals who accept its  terms. And not all individual will understand the argument, much less  accept the terms of it. The morality of reason preaches only to it own  converts, leaving the rest to their own devices. The philosophes proved to  be social tinkerers and we are their experiment.<br />Gay's book is  beautifully written, wonderfully detailed and very, very long (I refer here  to the two volume set), but it brings you into touch with those amazing  individuals, their struggle together, and amongst themselves, the varying  social climates in which they lived (Germay was different from France which  was different again from England), their resentment towards the  establishment, followed by their becoming the establishment. I could barely  put it down.Europe, nothing of consequence happened) except as a  point of contrast. They changed everything.<br />We have an odd relation to  these philosophes. We recognize them as simplistic, overbearing,  overconfident and, in many ways, flat out wrong. We also recognize them as  the founding fathers of our world. They assured us, get rid of religion and  wars would cease from the world, that religion (or rather specific  religions e.g. Christianity) was the source of bigotry on the earth. So we  did as they suggested and the wars just got bigger, the auto-de-fe's were  replaced by concentration camps and the savagery they told us would  disappear simply grew when the institutions built to contain them were  dismantled. <br />They seemed to believe that we could have the results of  Christian morality, without Christianity, if we simply replace religion  with reason. The problem is that Christianity is a religion with a specific  content and reason has no content at all. When you make the move you end up  with a categorical imperative that we can debate the validity of, but is no  real morality as it is effective only over individuals who accept its  terms. And not all individual will understand the argument, much less  accept the terms of it. The morality of reason preaches only to it own  converts, leaving the rest to their own devices. The philosophes proved to  be social tinkerers and we are their experiment.<br />Gay's book is  beautifully written, wonderfully detailed and very, very long (I refer here  to the two volume set), but it brings you into touch with those amazing  individuals, their struggle together, and amongst themselves, the varying  social climates in which they lived (Germay was different from France which  was different again from England), their resentment towards the  establishment, followed by their becoming the establishment. I could barely  put it down.	2000-07-08
US	53069029	RFVEJBLTLROJ3	157230426X	679789466	Reading Nietzsche Rhetorically	Books	4	5	7	N	Y	Nietzschean Criticism without style	To begin I must say that as to content and organization, this is an excellent book. The problem is it is about style. This is only a problem in that the book itself lacks one. In the words of the Negro Spiritual  \\"Everybody talkin' `bout hebben aint goin' there.\\" Is it perhaps enough to  talk about Nietzsche's style when he explicitly tells us that conquering  nihilism requires we enact our own (GS 290)? Could it be that our author  has imbibed too much nihilist French criticism, which evades coming to  grips with Nietzsche (which must come at the expense of dealing with the me  myself) in the name of becoming merely \\"Nietzschean?\\" Is this not, perhaps,  how all \\"Truth\\" begins: in becoming critical in order to avoid having to  come to grips with the me myself? By all means, buy this book. Read this  book. But become who you are, not just somebody who knows how to debunk  \\"Truth.\\"	2000-06-06
US	53069029	R2YT5ON699HZ0S	0520022114	353681615	Aristophanic Comedy	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	Aristophanean Basics	Admittedly, Strauss' Socrates and Aristophanes is the best book of higher criticism on Aristophanes' remaining plays. Unfortunately, that book has a painful deficiency: Strauss overrates his readers, assuming they know their  agon from their parabasis (a dubious assumption). Dover, while not where  near so insightful, makes up for Strauss' deficiency by explaining the  parts of the comedy, how they were staged and all the other practical  details Strauss disdains. If you are a classical scholar, well maybe  Dover's book is a waste of time. If not, then it is a valuable adjunct to  Strauss( Better read before Strauss. I did it the other way. Not pretty.).	2000-05-07
US	53069029	R1E0BJUV4WHQAV	0395926920	638767825	The Death of Adam: Essays on Modern Thought	Books	5	94	102	N	N	A call to obedience	I was perusing the bargain table in a bookstore when this title leapt out at me. I boughtit (for the price what had I to lose?) and 24 hours later I had finished. Stunned, I think is the word. It is hard to believe, for one thing, that this is an actually a collection of essays. Such collections  tend to be like your grandma's attic: a little bit of this, a little bit of  that; connected only by the owners' (author's) singularity. This book,  though the chapters are all on different subjects, describes a single  argument, and each of the chapters -- er-- essays, increase the  self-disclosure.<br />The author does admit to some deception (p. 174) in the  table of contents, a subterfuge to cover where she is going, but it seems  necessary. The book's aim is to subvert a world view, that of her readers.  To do so requires an ambush. She has to get you with her, moving in her  direction before you notice how far she had lead you away from the beaten  track. The first essay is the most conventional and reads a bit like Allan  Bloom's &quot;Closing of the American Mind&quot; (whose conclusion she  probably resonates with, while doubting he goes far enough; and whose  methods she probably thinks are complete and utter poppycock). The last are  very personal and subjective.<br />She asks (and answers) disquieting  questions. Why do we constantly go to prepackaged idea about our history  when the original documents are readily available? Why is it that what  passes for scholarship gives us opinions instead of knowledge? When we are  drowning in information, why is public discourse so impoverished?<br />For the  answers to these questions, she goes back to the 19th century and beyond.  How did we get into this fix? What were things like before? Is our plight  necessary? She avoids conspiracies theories at the price of making her  readers responsiblie for what they know. Without obedience, there is no  faith. If you're just looking for information, you won't find it here. If  you want, instead to be a person who is reponsible for what they know, this  book is for you.you want, instead to be a person who is reponsible for what they know, this  book is for you.	2000-04-27
US	53069029	R23VBV4WKEKF2F	1557530904	985560852	Becoming a Self (Purdue University Press Series in the History of Philosophy)	Books	5	14	21	N	Y	Kierkegaard short course	The idea of reading Concluding Unscientific Postscript without reading Concluding Unscientific Postscript is something I find horrifying. Why not eat gravy instead of a steak. Westphal's book is an excellent adjunct to  Kierkegaard's, but Kierkegaard is funnier, quirkier, more wide ranging and  he flat out tells better jokes. This book is an excellent adjunct to the  Postscript but is lightweight compared to the Postscript. Read this before  you read the Postscript. Read this while you read the Postscript (hard to  do: reading the Postscript is pretty consuming). Read this after you read  the Postscript (I had read the Postscript five time before I read this book  and found it very enjoyable). But for God's sake: Read the Postscript. This  book is no good as a replacement for it and why should you miss out on the  best things in life?	2000-04-13
US	53069029	R10ITEORRP2YSV	0520022114	353681615	Aristophanic Comedy	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Aristophanic primer	If you don't know your parabasis from your agon, your are probably better off starting your study of Aristophanes with this book than one that assumes more like Strauss' Socrates and Aristophanes. In this book, Dover  gives you an overview of the structure of the Attic comedy, defines terms,  explains how they were staged and selected for performance (all the mundane  issues Strauss does not deign to cover). Strauss is, of course, still the  undisputed champ in explaining the meaning of the plays, but you have a  better chance of understanding his explanations if you've read Dover first.  Crede experto. I did it the other way round.	2000-03-29
US	53069029	RCP5YHQO8WOP	0521295238	738061198	Plato: Symposium (Cambridge Greek and Latin Classics) (Greek Edition)	Books	5	22	25	N	Y	Symposium in Greek	There are three good commentaries I know of on the Symposium. There is Rosen's, whose virtue is scholarly depth. Allen's, which unlike Rosen's, is good as an introduction and for those who simply want to enjoy the  Symposium without getting entangled in scholarship. Finally there is this  one, whose primary virtue is as a commentary of the Greek. This book,  unlike Allen's, contains no English translation. If you want to read  Symposium in Greek and need help or if you want to look up various terms in  Greek, this is the book for you. If, on the other hand, you don't read  Greek, or are uninterested in Greek there is a high likelihood you will be  disappointed by this book.	2000-03-21
US	53069029	R3CXIV6QP3BNWH	0300056990	646384921	002: The Dialogues of Plato, Volume 2: The Symposium	Books	5	17	18	N	N	The place to start	This was the first book I read on Symposium, and I was glad. Later when I wanted to know more I moved on to Rosen and Dover, but if all you want to do is read the Symposium with a commentary, this is the place to start.  Allen gives you just enough detail to be enlightening, without swamping  you. If you want to be swamped, read Rosen (not that being swamped is  necessarily a bad thing). If you want to be entertained, read Allen.	2000-03-21
US	53069029	R29BEN9APQY0VR	0226777197	817401671	Socrates and Aristophanes	Books	5	12	15	N	Y	How the other half lives	This book follows the typical Strauss pattern: In the first few pages he makes a blanket statement (in this case, Aristophanes is a reactionary; in Thoughts on Machiavelli it was, Machiavelli is evil), then follows it up  will a torturous and nuanced analysis of the thinker's ideas until you  begin to wonder: In what way is Aristophanes a reactionary or Machiavelli,  evil. He tells you the picture is black and white, then he brings you in so  close that it all turns gray.  Be this as it may, Plato's Symposium and  Republic (especially Republic X where Socrates bans the poets from his just  city) tells only half the story (philosophy's side). In this book Strauss  tells the other half (poetry's side). In essence, Symposium and Republic  (and to a certain extent, Phaedo) make up Plato's case as to why philosophy  should be the teacher of public morality instead of poetry. Strauss' book  takes Aristophanes' eleven existing plays and presents  his opposing  arguments, his defence of poetry and attack on philosophy. Interesting read  for we who sit the other side of Plato's Republic (i.e. Medieval  Christendom, where there is no longer any contest between Thomas Aquinas  and Dante Aligheri).	2000-03-17
US	53069029	RQCK2RO0KOOF6	1567312217	417993372	Greek Homosexuality	Books	5	17	37	N	Y	The social uses of homosexual pursuit	What I found particularly informative was Dover's fascinating theory on the social use of Homosexual pursuit among the citizen class. Particularly the information that hubris was a crime in democratic Athens. What has this  to do with homosexuality, you ask? the first half of the book explains.  Ancient greek homosexuality in no way resembles the modern version and it  is mind-blowing to see how they differ and how analogous structures, in two  different societies, may seem to be opposites. For instance, in speaking of  homosexual pursuit Dover is constantly forced, when comparing Ancient  Athenian society to modern, to use heterosexual pursuit as an analogy for  homosexual pursuit. The resemblances between modern heterosexuality and  ancient homosexuality are just that strong!	2000-03-10
US	53069029	R1MNLCK6PCCJL5	0691059160	623185782	Works of Love : Kierkegaard's Writings, Vol 16	Books	5	47	51	N	N	Kierkegaard's Phaedrus	If I have to compare this book to any other, I would compare it to Plato's Phaedrus. In Phaedrus, Socrates talks to Phaedrus of how to speak of love authentically, i.e. to speak of love in such a way that the speaking itself  is an act of love. The problem is that we are never brought into connection  with Socrates' speech. It is always about Phaedrus and we are eavesdroppers  and therefore similtaneously included and excluded from what is said. As  Plato put it, the written word is a pharmakon (drug, medicine, poison), it  cannot speak authentically of love. This is the philosophical point of  Works of Love. In it, Kierkegaard attempts to speak authentically of love.  This is why the book is published on his own name and there are no  pseudonyms. He is writing directly to the reader who is his beloved. He,  however, must redefine the terms of the discourse. Since Eros is a love of  beauty and he cannot see the reader's beauty, he speaks instead of Agape  (in danish Kjerlighed, i.e. Christian love), or love of neighbor. In this  way whoever reads the book becomes his beloved, to whom the discourse is  aimed. In this way he attempts to get past Plato's empasse. I think he  suceeds.	2000-02-28
US	53069029	R1EC0JZNBVKZZK	0691020825	379289706	Concluding Unscientific Postscript to Philosophical Fragments, Volume II : (Kierkegaard's Writings, 12)	Books	5	27	33	N	N	A comic tour de force	To begin with, the title is a joke. This is the in keeping with the putative author of the piece. Johannes Climacus (who is named for the Seventh Century Hermit and Monk, St. John Climacus) is a humorist. A  humorist, as he will point out, is someone on edge of becoming religious,  but is not yet religious and, in fact, may never become religious. That  being said, back to the title. \\"Concluding,\\" as is obvious, implies that SK  intended this to be his last book (in a separate declaration published with  the book he acknowledges all the previous pseudonyms with the proviso that  no one should quote him directly unless it is from a book that bears his  name as author and claims that he has no privileged access to the  pseudonyms than any other reader). However, as the result of a religious  conversion after it's publication, it became the middle child of his  authorship, recapitulating all that had come before and pointing forward  toward new things yet to be imagined. \\"Unscientific\\" is a dig at Hegel. If  one wishes to over-simplify one may say that SK's position is Either/Or:  Either there is a God and the world actually means something, Or there is  no God and the world is absurd, meaningless and accidental. Hegel abolished  God and attempted to find meaning in historical process. This is the  \\"science\\" for which SK has such contempt. For this reason, SK refuses to  call himself a philosopher, content to call himself a \\"poet.\\" If a fraud  like Hegel is a philosopher, then he wants no part of the designation.  \\"Postscript\\" is where the joke comes in. This book is a \\"Postscript to the  Philosophical Fragments.\\" The \\"Philosophical Fragments\\" is, therefore, a  100 page book with a 600 page postscript attached (that's the joke ha ha)  Of all of SK's books this is my favorite. It is his funniest and either you  keep your eye carefully peeled or you will miss a joke (the first time you  read it you will miss hundreds of them). And in typical SK fashion the more  he jokes the more deadly serious he is (by the end he is claiming the book,  in its entirety, is a joke). The central distinction is between our ideas  about things and the things themselves. If you have any trouble, there is  always Merold Westphal's \\"Becoming a Self,\\" a good commentary. The only  problem is that he probably takes SK more seriously than SK would be  comfortable with. That's not necessarily a good thing. You lose too many  good jokes in the process.s the more deadly serious he is (by the end he is claiming the book,  in its entirety, is a joke). The central distinction is between our ideas  about things and the things themselves. If you have any trouble, there is  always Merold Westphal's \\"Becoming a Self,\\" a good commentary. The only  problem is that he probably takes SK more seriously than SK would be  comfortable with. That's not necessarily a good thing. You lose too many  good jokes in the process.	2000-02-02
US	53069029	R1MGY9C8ORHF07	0809121743	162742103	The Community of the Beloved Disciple: The Life, Loves and Hates of an Individual Church in New Testament Times	Books	5	62	68	N	N	Brown is big	In 1965 Father Brown published his great magisterial two volume commentary on the Gospel of John in which he advocated the traditional view the John the son of Zebedee was the evangelist. In 1965 J. Louis Martyn published  his monumental work &quot;History and Theology in the Fourth Gospel,&quot;  wherein he proved, once and for all, that John the son of Zebedee could not  be the evangelist. Now what would be Brown's reaction? This is it. He  simply admitted that he was wrong and builds on Martyn's work in this  marvelous book. Hopefully you can also read Martyn's book with this one,  but this one alone will give you a glimpse into a first century religious  community.	2000-01-14
US	53069029	R2WNH6GSBTRM8X	0521648300	220512006	Plato and the Socratic Dialogue: The Philosophical Use of a Literary Form	Books	5	9	15	N	Y	Hubris to the max	When the first empirical experiments confirmed Einstein's theory of relativity, story has it he was unphased. &quot;If it had been otherwise&quot; he is quoted as saying, &quot;I'd feel sorry for God.&quot;  If Kahn's interpretation of Plato is not correct, I feel sorry for Plato.  To hear Kahn tell it, Plato is a great genius who did not, as modern  scholarly orthodoxy holds, develope his point of view over time, but rather  developes his reader over time to accept his ideas. Kahn believes that the  decisive influence on Plato's life (other than, of course, Socrates) was  the coup of the Thirty. These aristocrats overturned the Athenian democracy  and, instead of ruling nobly, showed Plato how depraved and stupid  obligarchy can be. The worst of these revolutionaries were Plato's brother  and cousin. The only is bright spot was Socrates' brave stand against the  tyrants only to get it in the neck once democracy was restored. The problem  was that the ancient Greek religion was an aristocratic, heroic religion  (see Homer) which encouraged the aristocrats to behave like barbarians.  What Plato was trying to do was introduce a new religion (philosophy) which  would civilize the aristocracy. To prove his point, Kahn must progress from  Ion and Hippias Minor, through Gorgias (where he states his question fully)  to the aporetic dialogues (Lysis, Meno, Charmnides) to the Protagoras (the  most problematic of the dialogues to fit into his theory)and finally to  goal the great middle dialogues (Symposium, Phaedo and Republic). It's  quite a ride.but if you can hold on, well worth it.	2000-01-11
US	53069029	R31JGH7M1IFU18	0253330440	8456380	Kierkegaard in Golden Age Denmark (Indiana Series in the Philosophy of Religion)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Kierkegaard in context	Kirmmse's book is an attempt to place Kierkegaard in the Politcal, social and religious context of early 19th century Danish Society. There are chapters on the major characters constantly referred to in SK's book. There  are chapters on Gruntvig, Martinsen, Heiberg and, of course, Mynster. The  major emphasis in the his discussion of SK, himself is: why was Concluding  Unscientific Postscript not his last book as he planned it to be? The  second half of the book is a wonderful exploration of the &quot;second  authorship.&quot; a great read.	2000-01-08
US	53069029	R1XN8FIB3Q1IPB	0691020531	708416216	Parables of Kierkegaard	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Who says SK isn't fun?	While I look with horror at the whole Philosophy in 90 minutes series, if you had to do it for SK this is how you could best do it. A wonderful little book for dipping into, full of short witty aphorisms taken from SK's  works. Of course everything is out of context, but then SK tended to set  these witty little stories in very intimidating tomes. In any case, this  book provides a nice place to start and the references allow you to find  the parables in the context of the works themselves.	2000-01-08
US	53069029	R1YKILRUTR48UW	0521648300	220512006	Plato and the Socratic Dialogue: The Philosophical Use of a Literary Form	Books	5	7	11	N	Y	Plato's  single literary project	I do not believe I can capture the sheer audacity and interpretive hubris of this book so I quote the author: \\"The anonymity of the dialogue form,  together with Plato's problematic irony in the presentation of Socrates,  makes it impossible for us to see through these dramatic works in such a  way as to read the mind of their author. To suppose that one can treat  these dialogues as a direct statement of the author's opinion is what I  call the fallacy of transparency, the failure to take account of the  doctrinal opacity of these literary texts. What we can and must attempt to  discern, however, is the artistic intention with which they were composed.  For in this sense the intention of the author is inscribed in the text. It  is precisely this intention that my exegesis is designed to capture, by  construing the seven threshold dialogues together with Symposium and Phaedo  as a single complex literary enterprise culminating with the Republic. And  that means to see this whole group of dialogues as the multi-faceted  expression of a single philosophical view.\\" (page 42)<br />Most scholars  understand Plato's dialogues in terms of philosophical stages, that is to  say, Plato had an early period, when his thought was dominated by Socrates,  later came the middle period, culminating in the Republic, when he came,  more and more to express his own ideas, and finally a period where he turns  against Socrates entirely. But Kahn wants to know what if Plato had the  plan of the dialogues mapped out in advance. What if he was critical of  Socrates from the beginning? What if Socrates is not his spokesman, but an  object of his criticism? Certainly, if Kahn's interpretation stands up, he  has Occam's razor on his side. If Plato's dialogues break down into three  groups on stylistic grounds, does that justify the assumption on that  basis, the three groups date from differing periods, when Plato held  differing points of view? Or are we better served to believe that these  grouping constitute a literary device intentionally employed by Plato to  advance a single, unchanging program? Moreover, how do we know Plato  preserves the historical Socrates in his writing, or is even interested in  doing so? My training is in biblical studies so I am glad to hear someone  asking the same questions about the dialogues of Plato that have been  commonplaces in relation to the Gospels for over a century? Are we to  assume that because Socrates never performed miracles that that justifies  shoddy scholarship? Certainly, from the perspective of Biblical scholars,  who have been disavows the biographical nature of the Gospels for decades,  reading books like Gregory Vlatos Socrates, Ironist and Moral philosopher  gives one the impression that it was written in another century. And it was  written (or at least published) in this decade.<br />This is serious  scholarship. If such things intimidate you, you are better off leaving this  one alone. If you enjoy such things, this is a treat.rouping constitute a literary device intentionally employed by Plato to  advance a single, unchanging program? Moreover, how do we know Plato  preserves the historical Socrates in his writing, or is even interested in  doing so? My training is in biblical studies so I am glad to hear someone  asking the same questions about the dialogues of Plato that have been  commonplaces in relation to the Gospels for over a century? Are we to  assume that because Socrates never performed miracles that that justifies  shoddy scholarship? Certainly, from the perspective of Biblical scholars,  who have been disavows the biographical nature of the Gospels for decades,  reading books like Gregory Vlatos Socrates, Ironist and Moral philosopher  gives one the impression that it was written in another century. And it was  written (or at least published) in this decade. <br />This is serious  scholarship. If such things intimidate you, you are better off leaving this  one alone. If you enjoy such things, this is a treat.	1999-12-27
US	53069029	R1A38172KXZGEB	0385260326	287129497	The Trial of Socrates	Books	1	16	58	N	N	Yellow journalism 500 years B.C.	Nietzsche once claimed that it is amazing that God learned Greek to speak to humankind. Even more amazing is that he did not learn it better. I. F. Stone learned Greek to write this book. Had he learned chinese, he could  have written a bad book about Confucius. Stone claims a half-wit founded a  twenty-five year philosophical tradition. Is it not more plausible to say  that the man making the claim is the half-wit? I took a week reading this  book, a week I will never get back. What a waste!	1999-12-21
US	53069029	R1J4Z6XL59TXON	0691020493	968788895	Stages on Life's Way : Kierkegaard's Writings, Vol 11	Books	5	25	27	N	N	A  &quot;Repetition&quot; on Either/Or	This book is a second and more complete version of Either/Or. It is more complete in that instead of ending with a sermon (The edification to be found in the thought that before God we are all in the wrong)as does  Either/Or, it actually explores the religious sphere, the highest sphere of  existence in Kierkegaard's schema. As in all of Kierkegaard's writings,  this is not an abstract exploratiton of the spheres, but is embodied in  characters, the most characters in any of Kierkegaard's work. It is an  alarmingly complex and aggravating work. The aggravation comes in with the  characters occassionally demanding to know whether the reader has a life  and how can s/he possibly waste his time with drivel like this. The work is  divided into three parts, one for each sphere. The aesthetic sphere is  represented by a updating of Plato's Symposium, with Kierkegaard repeating  a number of pervious characters, (Constantine Constantinus, Victor Eremita,  the Young Man, Johannes the Seducer) and introducing a new character, the  Fashion designer. The subject of the speeches: Women. The second part,  presenting the Ethical sphere, heralds the return of Judge William from the  second part of Either/Or, this time uncomfortably sandwiched between the  Aesthetic and the religious spheres. In Either/Or he is smug, but in this  book he cannot pretend his position has any kind of ultimacy. The Religious  calls his position constantly into question. The ethical is the relative,  the religious the absolute. The Ethical claims we should repent our sins,  while the religous claims that all the sins of the world are our sins, and  not only collectively, but individually. We must repent the sins of the  entire world. This is something the ethical cannot accept. The Religious  sphere is represented by &quot;Quidams's Diary.&quot; This is a repetition  on the &quot;Seducer's diary&quot; which ends the first half of Either/Or.  This time, however, the principal is a sufferer instead of a predator. He  is hopeless, sad and sorrowful having just ended an unhappy love affair.  This sorrow launches him beyond the ethical into a dark night of the soul.  The Diary entries are interpursed,on the fifth of each month (Kierkegaard  was born on the fifth of May) by brilliant little stories which comment on  the process of the soul's healing. Frater Taciturnus (Brother Silent,  perhaps related to Johannes de silento of Fear and Trembling?) also  provides a commentary. The problem with the book is that once Kierkegaard  claimed that he wanted his reader to expend as much effort reading his  books as he did in writing them. He has made sure in this case that he  would achieve this goal. If it weren't for the quality and overwhelming  wealth of the content, this one wouldn't worth it. As it is, you should  probably read the earlier books of Kierkegaard's authorship first. With  this one, you need all the help you can get.edator. He  is hopeless, sad and sorrowful having just ended an unhappy love affair.  This sorrow launches him beyond the ethical into a dark night of the soul.  The Diary entries are interpursed,on the fifth of each month (Kierkegaard  was born on the fifth of May) by brilliant little stories which comment on  the process of the soul's healing. Frater Taciturnus (Brother Silent,  perhaps related to Johannes de silento of Fear and Trembling?) also  provides a commentary. The problem with the book is that once Kierkegaard  claimed that he wanted his reader to expend as much effort reading his  books as he did in writing them. He has made sure in this case that he  would achieve this goal. If it weren't for the quality and overwhelming  wealth of the content, this one wouldn't worth it. As it is, you should  probably read the earlier books of Kierkegaard's authorship first. With  this one, you need all the help you can get.	1999-12-19
US	53069029	RMELCZ2JLVU8E	0691020264	427180751	Fear and Trembling/Repetition : Kierkegaard's Writings, Vol. 6	Books	5	13	35	N	N	A brilliancy prize	SK once claimed had he written no other book, Fear and Trembling would have sufficed to make his reputation as one of the greats of literature. A fair assessment, but he did indeed write other books and Fear and Trembling  needs to fit within that context. This is especially the case in relation  to its twin: Repetition. This is even more urgent when you recognize Fear  and Trembling's subject matter, which is: Repetition. SK introduces the  concept with typical irony: neither Constantine Constantinus nor the Young  Man, nor Johannes de Silento actually achieve repetition. Repetition is  negatively defined: we are told not what it is, but what it is not. We are  told that repetiton occurs &quot;by virtue of the absurd.&quot; Sartre took  this construction directly into his philosophy and made himself a laughing  stock. This goes to show that either you keep you sense of humor fully  operational in reading SK's books or he will make you look like a jerk.  People who do not laugh long and loud at these books will not be able to  interpret them without claiming for themselves absolute idiocy. And people  who do not understand Repetition may as well stop wasting their time on  Kierkegaard. Perhaps the can do Nietzsche and perspectivism instead?	1999-12-11
US	53069029	R311YDLUWN4FRO	0226777022	482210910	Thoughts on Machiavelli	Books	5	30	48	N	N	Wheels within wheels	So, says Strauss, Machiavelli is evil? Is that so? What do we mean by this? Is this not all too comforting an answer to a question that Strauss hammers the complexity of throughout his book? The problem of this book is  one esoteric writer writing about another. You sit there with Strauss on  one knee and Machiavelli on the other as Strauss remorselessly &quot;blows  his cover.&quot; Machiavelli has something to hide and Strauss is intent on  showing what it is. The question that constantly recurrs is: What has  Strauss to hide? Nobody is this adept at ferreting out others' hidden  meanings without having hidden meanings themselves. Especially not when  their doctrine is that philosophy is a series of hidden meanings reserved  for the philosopher and encoded so as to be missed even by the scholars.  It, in other words, takes a thief to catch a thief. So Strauss catches  Machiavelli leaving us to wonder what he has also stolen from us in the  process	1999-12-10
US	53069029	R37OQ3SFF8EVPZ	0823217019	429463548	Both/And: Reading Kierkegaard- From Irony to Edification (Perspectives in Continental Philosophy)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Kierkegaard the deconstructionist	This is a wonderfully concise review of a prolix literature. Strawser's point is that Kierkegaard's work cannot be deconstructed because he already deconstructed it himself. There is no necessary construction we can make of  his work. It is all either/or or, as Strawser puts it, both-and. Those, SK  included, who want to interpret his work in exclusively religious terms are  defeated by the powerfully poetic-aesthetic aspect of it. While those who  wish to claim he was exclusively a literary figure have to deal with the  overpoweringly religious aspect of his work. Neither, from beginning to end  of his authorship, are separated from the other. They are inextricably  linked and therefore allow a completely noncoersive interpretation.  Kierkegaard, the personality, disappears and the reader is left alone with  the work. Or as SK put it &quot;tis your heart that must be revealed.&quot;  And revealed it is in the act of interpreting his works.	1999-12-05
US	53069029	R1FDO5X9NH6442	0691020280	106291802	The Sickness Unto Death: A Christian Psychological Exposition For Upbuilding And Awakening (Kierkegaard's Writings, Vol 19) (v. 19)	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	A life changing experience	It doesn't often happen that you can feel reading a book changing your world-view. I can remember the first time I read &quot;Sickness Unto Death&quot; and suddenly commercials sounded different. It's a simple  Either/or: either you are part of the problem or you are part of the  solution. Either you are moving, and, whether you know it or not we are all  moving, in one direction or the other. The opposite of &quot;faith&quot; is  not &quot;doubt,&quot; for &quot;doubt&quot; can a moment within faith. The  opposite of &quot;faith&quot; is &quot;despair.&quot; Despair is the  &quot;Sickness Unto Death,&quot; and there is no other real death. All else  is temporary, but despair is eternal. The great dialectian draws out and  describes the variety and etiology of despair in a language he describes as  &quot;algebraic&quot; (that is, spare, formulaic, a prime example is the  famous opening paragraph with its comic parody of Hegel (he's pulling your  leg at the same time he is deadly serious. That's SK)). You may find this  language hard to deal with, but it is worth it to stick with it.	1999-12-04
US	53069029	R2WW29I91IM13M	0271018410	363459796	Of Art and Wisdom: Plato's Understanding of Techne	Books	5	8	13	N	N	Platonic hubris	If Roochnik's thesis is correct, great injustice has been done to Plato. You would think, after 2,500 years we would have this right, but, unfortunately Roochnik thinks we are teaching Plato all wrong. Roochnik  does battle with a thing he calls the SAT (standard application of techne)  which is a scholarly consensus that Plato had an art (techne) of virtue and  it was teachable. The problem with this thesis is, as Dr. Roochnik points  out, that it makes Plato a Sophist and not a philosopher. This is a welcome  exercise in philosophical and interpretive hubris. It has a quality that  Kierkegaard called angst, a sympathetic antipathy. One can imagine scholars  attracted to the book for it's lively and fascinating discussion of  pre-socratic techne, at the same time, put off by the thesis that everyday  the world over paid professional academics are misrepresenting the thought  of one of the foundational figures of western culture. Can you not imagine  such a one holding his nose as he footnotes a reference? It is to laugh!	1999-12-04
US	53069029	RVWZ48LEHS0PG	0674699068	630901931	Preface to Plato (History of the Greek Mind)	Books	5	43	44	N	N	The place to start with Plato	If you want to start with Plato, this is the place. Plato, through Socrates, indulges in a huge polemic. The problem with a polemic is that unless you have a clear idea of who he is arguing against and why you won't  understand what is being said. Havelock's aim is to situate you in the  ancient Greece of Plato's day and explain exactly what Plato is on about.  Suddenly Plato doesn't seem quite so bizarre if you have some idea why he  says what he says. Havelock starts with the tenth book of the Republic: why  does Plato ban poets and poetry (especially Homer) from his utopia? Plato  was no mean poet himself, so what does this mean? Havelock tells you in  technicolor the why's and wherefore's of the historical situation so that  you can read Republic (and the other dialogues as well) without flying  blind.	1999-12-03
US	53069029	RNPKBSZLF5H3U	1890318647	479617589	Plato's Symposium (Carthage Reprint)	Books	5	29	31	N	Y	All you ever wanted to know about Symposium	I thought I understood the Symposium. I had a copy of Allen's commentary and was truly satisfied. Then this one fell into my hands. Sometimes the depth of Rosen's erudition is hard to take, but then which would you prefer  5 watts or 50 watts per channel. Sure, this is probably more than I want to  know right now, so I'll read it again later and it will probably be a  different book by then. Rosen is no babysitter. This is a very great book,  but it is also serious scholarship. If you don't want the brainburn  associated with reading someone who comes to conclusions that are often  over your head (I speak here from experience) get Allen's book or the Cliff  notes and leave this one alone. Moreover, the style is scholarly dry as  dust. I like that. If you don't leave this one alone. This is the best,  more detailed and probably definite commentary on Plato and Eros (until  someone comes out with a commentary on the Symposium and the Phaedrus  together that matches this one in depth).	1999-12-03
US	53069029	R4MGWTV2QYV39	0253210712	277786393	Being and Logos: Reading the Platonic Dialogues	Books	5	12	20	N	N	Interpretive essays that really get you into the dialogues	The problem with Plato's dialogues is that they were written over 2,500 yeqrs ago. That's not Plato's problem, it's ours. The whole cultural milieu, on which the dialogue draw heavily, no longer exists. What's a  Mother to do? Well if you get Doctor Sallis' marvelous little book you will  be given guided tours of several important dialogues: Meno, Phaedrus,  Republic and others. Of course, it doesn't replace actually reading the  dialogues, and his language is a tad Heideggerian (but not offensively so).  All in all a good read.	1999-11-26
US	53069029	R264962NTRZ88R	0691020019	425844188	Critique of Religion and Philosophy	Books	4	14	31	N	N	good but facile	When i read Kaufmann in my twenties, he was Gospel. Then I grew up and started reading for myself and the more I read the more facile he looked.  His ideas on Kierkegaard and Heidegger are laughable. His book on Nietzsche  is an excellent introduction, but that's all. If that's the only book you  read you don't know anything. This book is okay, but his opinions on  religion lack real depth. If you are on your philosophical journey he's a  good place to start from, but you don't want to live there!	1999-10-30
US	53069029	R3U09BJVHMO572	0691019509	433903777	Kierkegaard's Attack Upon "Christendom" 1854-1855	Books	5	41	48	N	N	The ultimate Conspiracy Theory	If you want to reassure yourself that Christianity is wrong or stupid or whatever, read Nietzsche's Antichrist. If you want to read something that actually frightens Christians, this is the book for you. The difference is  Kierkegaard is a Christian with extensive Church experience so unlike  Nietzsche he knows where the bones are buried.<br />The whole thing amounts  to an elaborate Conspiracy theory. In order to be rid of Christianity  Society has not rejected it, but enthroned it. But in so doing created a  hierarchy (the institutional Church) with the covert purpose of making  certain that Christianity does not exist. Christianity is professed as the  StateReligion. There are many civil servant employed to promote it. There  is much Real Estate devoted to it. Church attendance is high. And, as a  result, Christianity is effectively nullified, because it actually exists  nowhere.<br />One must remember that SK and Han Christian Andersen were  drinking buddies (they fell out when SK reviewed one of Andersen's novels)  and SK here announces another naked emperor. In a Christian nation no one  is a Christian!<br />If you are just starting SK I suggest this book because  here he is at his most open and &quot;direct.&quot; Everything else has  deep ironic undercurrents, but a &quot;surface&quot; reading of this one is  probably close to right.	1999-09-11
