US	53069821	R37TUC7QBGL55V	059525070X	951088675	The Devil's Apocrypha: There are two sides to every story	Books	2	48	69	N	Y	Idle Hands Produced This	John DeVito's \\"The Devil's Apocrypha: There are two sides to every story\\" is an amateur's view of the Bible.  I'm shocked by the sheer number of reviewers who exclaim originality upon reading this self-published piece of beef tripe.  Telling a story from the point of view of the bad guy is not original in any way.  Anyone remember John Gardner's \\"Grendel\\"?  Saberhagen's \\"The Dracula Tape\\"?<br /><br />This \\"novel\\" doesn't even go part way toward making this concept believable.  It's nothing more than short books paralleling those in the Bible, with minor switches to make Lucifer Light-bringer seem like the good guy.  Big deal.  This is not revolutionary, amazing, inflammatory or anti-Christian.  It's just a different point of view.<br /><br />DeVito's writing is ham-fisted and clumsy.  The closest I can come to describing it is The Book of Mormon, Joseph Smith's semi-literate attempt to validate his religion.  The Book of Mormon, though discovered (ha!) and translated in the 19th century, is a blatant attempt to write biblical text in the language of the King James Bible, which was translated in the 16th Century as a deliberate attempt to formalize and beautify the text.  But Joseph Smith would not have known this.  He would have assumed that folks in the Bible just spoke that way.  John DeVito makes the same mistake here, attempting to lift the level of his story by inserting barely comprehended Old English-type language.<br /><br />What amuses me is the reaction this book appears to have incited in its readers.  Those religious folks have branded the text blasphemous.  \\"Enlightened\\" people have taken the book at face-value, enjoying the idea that Satan was unjustly maligned.  But let's just play here for a moment: what if Lucifer DID appear to a priest to tell his tale and plead his case.  Why on earth would anyone, especially a priest, take him at face value?  He's the Adversary, for Heaven's sake.  Couldn't he, possibly, be lying?  And wouldn't convincing and turning a priest be the ultimate coup?<br /><br />This book is so unimaginative and of such low literary value that I would not recommend it, even as a valid, alternate point of view.	2005-04-14
US	53069821	R32M52IK539MWR	0765344653	106860832	Mean Woman Blues (Skip Langdon) (Skip Langdon Series)	Books	2	27	35	N	N	Bad Book Blues	I am a collector of New Orleans books.  This is my joy.  This is my curse.    It is a joy because I get so many opportunities to revisit my favorite city through the eyes of so many talented authors.  I get to relive the food, the scents, the sights, each described a little differently by a different writer.    It is my curse because I have vowed to read each and every book I purchase that is set in New Orleans.  That means that I have been forced to read every dull, lifeless, annoying word set to paper by Julie Smith.    \\"Mean Woman Blues\\", the ninth assault to my good taste and judgment by author Smith, is a predictable, if asinine,  entry in the Skip Langdon series of mysteries.    I am mystified that her writing has become so bad, since I loved the two long-lost and lamented Paul McDonald books she wrote twenty years ago.  But somewhere between there and here she stopped writing believable characters, interesting dialogue and lush description and joined the \\"and then...\\" school of writing.  Smith's books are bland recounts of character's actions, told to us rather than shown.  Invariably all women, save Skip, are emotional basketcases and all men, save Skip's boyfriend and partner, are lunkheaded bigots.    Mean Woman Blues raises the ineptitude to a near-deafening crescendo.  Not only has Skip been raised to detective grade and given celebrity status for her handling of a few high-profile cases, but along the way she has picked up her own nitwitted Moriarty in the guise of Errol Jacomine, whom Skip has faced down on two prior occasions.  Forget that this is insanely unlikely, a police detective having an arch-enemy, a la Sherlock Holmes or Batman, but it is wholly unacceptable to me that Jacomine, after heading off to faraway Dallas, TX (ahem) and undergoing facial surgery to change his appearance, would consider going on television, then running for public office.  Um.  I thought this guy was a super-genius?  Well, so was Wile E. Coyote, and we know how that turned out.    Couple this with a tepid subplot concerning stolen graveyard artifacts and the completely ridiculous story of Terri, a blue-haired dip of the first order who gets arrested for bank fraud (ridiculous despite Smith's assurance in the acknowledgements that it is based on a true story) and acts like a complete 'tard through the whole book, and you have a truly painful experience for someone who enjoys real books by real writers.	2005-04-01
US	53069821	R1MB5P1I8ATEYP	2879293448	646686624	Bad City Blues	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Great Book about a Bad City	Once in a while I come across a writer who is so dexterous, so acute, that I am willing to follow him to whatever depths of depravity to which he chooses to descend.    Tim Willocks is such a writer, and in Bad City Blues, he has elected to visit a deeper place than I have gone before.  The setting is a Louisiana hotter, dirtier and uglier than the one I have visited and it is peopled with demons disguised as policemen, addicts, thugs and men of the cloth.  These creatures are violent and vengeful, heaping pain and indignities upon one another with an abandon that should chill and repel the reader, but the spare beauty of the language keeps us hanging on through the worst of it.    There are only seven characters in Bad City Blues and in lesser hands such paucity of interaction might seem cramped and claustrophobic, but it's clear that Willocks requires every one of the books 245 pages to bring them to life and could probably have done with another hundred or so.      As with most of stories of human nature, Bad City Blues is about two brothers.  It is a logical way for a writer to start - two men who have had the same upbringing and background should turn out roughly the same way, yet one goes bad, the other goes worse.  Cicero and Luther Grimes (Grimes - dirty, besoiled, low - even the names are evocative) are white trash who haven't spoken in years due to an unnamed wrong committed by Luther on Cicero.  Luther spends most of his time in South America, training death squads and dealing drugs, while his brother elected to go to medical school.  Cicero could have been a successful doctor, but instead now lives in a broken-down firehouse in a broken-down part of town and tends to the afflicted, often free of charge.  Does this make him a good man?  No, not really.  Violence and retribution boil just below the surface of his calm demeanor.  Though the \\"good\\" Grimes does not uncork his rage, the bloodlust surges through him and is as ugly as the acts perpetrated by theother characters.    Separated by years and miles, the brothers are pulled together by Callie Carter, a former hooker and current addict, who is on the run with a million dollars stolen from the bank where her husband is a Vice President.  The husband, Cleve Carter, is also a television evangelist who sparks through his brief appearance in this book like a high-voltage wire chewed through by wild nutria.    Clarence Jefferson is a crooked cop who destroys or befouls everything he touches, including his sweet and unassuming Baptist wife.  He catches wind of the million dollar heist and sets out to claim his piece of it, leaving a wake of bloodied and broken humanity behind him.    Bad City Blues is a ferocious and extraordinary book that will be enjoyed by fans of Chuck Palahniuk and James Lee Burke and burned in horror by fans of Agatha Christie and Joan Hess.	2005-03-31
US	53069821	R1FP1MZ75XZZ8L	0812971043	518214282	The Dante Club: A Novel	Books	2	30	36	N	N	Bah	Once again I find myself opposite a tide of favorable opinion regarding a popular new book.  I was, of course, excited to read Matthew Pearl's notable first novel, The Dante Club, both because of the many positive reviews and the historical context.  I'm a sucker for historical figures in fictional situations and my tastes lean toward the lowbrow, so if the historical figures are running around solving mysteries, so much the better. <br /> <br />My excitement with The Dante Club, however, dissolved to dismay and ended in disgust.  I have very few kind words to offer about this weak and pompous offering about Boston's foremost Dante scholars solving a series of grisly murders that mimic the punishments Dante doled out to the damned in his Inferno. <br /> <br />Hard to believe, but in post-Civil War America, Dante Alighieri had not yet become the college student's worst enemy.  His seminal work, The Divine Comedy, had not yet been completely translated from the Italian.  Poet Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, along with Oliver Wendell Holmes, James Russell Lowell and publisher JT Fields are working on just such a project when they are approached by the police, in the person of Nicholas Rey, Boston's first black officer, with a scrap of paper on which is scrawled a phrase in Italian.  The paper is related to a murder on which Rey is working.  In the first of many befuddling moves, the Dante Club, as these scholars call themselves, elects to keep mum, both in the translation of the paper and when it becomes clear to them that the murders are Dante-related.  In true mystery style, the group decides to investigate themselves. <br /> <br />It's clear that author Pearl has done scads of research about the principle characters and wanted to bring them to vivid life within the pages of The Dante Club.  But it seems equally clear that this research was his undoing.  He throws too much data at we poor readers, without the skill required to make it seem effortless or natural.  He delves too deeply into the personal lives of Longfellow, portrayed as a spectral weakling unable to recover from his wife's death, and Holmes, who just can't seem to get along with his adult son, Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr., who would go on to become one of America's foremost jurists. <br /> <br />These characterizations may be acurate, but the disproportionate amount of space spent recounting them is both unnecessary and distracting.  Certainly, there is a secret joke in Holmes, Sr., chastising Holmes, Jr., for studying law and telling him there is no future in it, when we, from the perspective of history, know that Jr. would serve on the Supreme Court for thirty years, but it is completely unnecessary to the story.  Equally frivolous is the amount of time spent examining the underbelly of academic politics. <br /> <br />Pearl includes a note at the end of this novel that indicates he recreated much of the language and dialogue from the \\"poems, essays, novels, journals, and letters of the Dante Club members and those closest to them.\\"  Ah!  That would explain why most of the dialogue spoken by the Dante Club members sounds stilted, pompous and, at times, comically inept!  People do not write the way they speak and, rather than bring these famous figures to life, Pearl embalms them in their own words, making them sound effete and foolish. <br /> <br />Most interesting is the character of Rey, the black cop, who is unwanted by his white counterparts and those he serves and protects.  Though no such police officer existed in postwar Boston, Pearl uses Rey as a vehicle to introduce us to the racial difficulties arising from the Civil War.  He is also useful device for prolonging the story, since, because he is black, none of Rey's fellow policement believe his theories and won't commit resources to following his investigative intuition.  If he's been white, the book might have been a hundred pages shorter. <br /> <br />The plot itself is surprisingly reasonable.  When we learn how all the pieces fit together, it makes sense and I reluctantly applaud Pearl for this.  But other clunky moments are just unbelievable, like the Club's decision to stonewall the police for fear their translation of Dante will be shelved and they themselves might be considered suspects.  What?  Let's not help catch a violent killer so our book can be published?  This is not consistent with what I know of Longfellow and his crew. <br /> <br />Overall, The Dante Club is a long, dull look into the pettiness of American academia with occasional spikes of interest that come with descriptions of the violent killings.  It doesn't hold a candle to Caleb Carr's \\"The Alienist\\", despite what other reviewers have said.	2005-03-31
US	53069821	R1Y2WZC2ZFOWKS	0425199347	330850583	Amnesia	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Don't Forget to Remember to Read "Amnesia"	Imagine how your world would change if you were to witness your sister's murder, unable to aid her in any way, and that the man responsible got away clean.  Then imagine that you have been given the opportunity to set things right.  Suppose you have prepared your entire life in order to do so, but instead of bringing the murderer to justice, you find yourself involved in a plot so bizarre and unlikely you suspect you may have gone crazy? <br /> <br />This is the conceit of David Best's latest thriller, \\"Amnesia\\".  The title is apt, as it deals with the mysteries of human memory, the way we store and process information and, possibly, the ways we may lose it. <br /> <br />Marti Segerson is the young girl, now grown and a psychiatrist <br />in rural Tennessee.  Having taken a job with the asylum where Vernon Odessa, the madman who killed her sister, is incarcerated, she aims to prove Odessa did the deed and ensure that he is punished.  The only problem?  If Odessa did it, he can't remember.  And Marti's memory is starting to develop more holes than a wheel of Swiss cheese. <br /> <br />Having previously enjoyed David Best's \\"The Judas Virus\\", I was excited to read this one.  I am pleased to report that \\"Amnesia\\" is even better.  The characters are sharply drawn and individual enough to be believable but without the unbelievable quirks that some freshman authors add as a substitute for characterization.  Marti is resourceful and smart, but vulnerable and wounded by her childhood trauma.  Her neighbor and landlord, Clay, might be a tad on the superguy side, being a rodeo rider and volunteer fireman, but these traits may be forgiven by his understated demeanor and self-effacing humor. <br /> <br />The plot is laid out like a fine tapestry, with seemingly insignificant occurrences carrying greater weight as the story unfolds.  The story is literally plotted like a roller-coaster, with Best bringing us to the point of revelation again and again, only to let the reader slide away in a rush, until the final plunge into the breathless resolution. <br /> <br />This is a fine book, a terrific commute or beach read that will keep you turning the pages.  Enjoy! <br /> <br />	2005-02-24
US	53069821	R3FC8JNJIMWM1L	055380314X	909112737	The Arcanum	Books	2	25	28	N	N	The Arcanum	Thomas Wheeler's The Arcanum is an ambitious novel by a competent novelist.  Regrettably, a story this ambitious requires more than mere competence.  It requires vision, talent, skill and imagination, features that are in short supply here. <br /> <br />The first indication that this was going to be a substandard read was right on the cover - the back of the dustjacket was lined with praise from primarily mediocre writers like Christopher Golden and Robert Doherty.  The second clue is the cast of characters, a group of historical figures so overused as to have become a crutch for authors of little imagination.  How many times have Doyle and Houdini been paired as erstwhile detectives?  How many times has Doyle been cast as a hero of Holmesian intellect?  How many times has Lovecraft come face to face with the Old Ones of his Cthulu mythos, having thought they were merely figments of his imagination?  The only fresh character here is Marie Laveau, but even she had to be shoehorned into place from across space and time, seeing as she never left New Orleans and died years before 1919, when this book takes place. <br /> <br />Wheeler comes up with half a dozen clever ideas that he tosses casually into a paragraph, magical explanations for such events as the assassination of Archduke Ferdinand and the murder of the Romanoff family, but the cleverness of these tossed-off concepts pales beneath the ineptitude of the rest of the novel.  It appears Wheeler did very little research into the time period about which he wrote, or the characters with which he elected to populate The Arcanum.  Lovecraft is portrayed as a sniveling madman and Marie Laveau is characterized only with dropped g's at the end of gerunds and a few \\"cheres\\" thrown in to remind us all that she is from the south.  Never mind that she was an intelligent Creole woman, not a Cajun. <br /> <br />The story itself is a ridiculous mash.  The chief badman is intent on destroying the world, a pretty ridiculous proposition for anyone.  Think about it - where would he live, and with whom?  There are angels, demons, lost tribes and ancient artifacts.  Aleister Crowley appears as a menacing mage, instead of the fusty old milquetoast fraud he truly was.  Other historical figures wander wanly through the narrative without convincing us of their veracity. <br /> <br />This is a moderately entertaining book for those who prefer their historical fantasy fiction without all that messy \\"history\\", but if you are a stickler for research, plot and characterization, move on to anything by the sublime Tim Powers and pass on The Arcanum. <br />	2004-11-04
US	53069821	R33L02VRAL94DO	0972952977	806700302	Da Vinci Code Decoded: The Truth Behind the New York Times #1 Bestseller	Books	2	47	95	N	N	Just Read the Da Vinci Code	What a joke!  This book was obviously rushed into print to capitalize on the Dan Brown phenomenon, but it is nothing more than a recap of the research presented by Brown - much of which is questionable.    Martin Lunn claims to be an historian, but he falls into the same traps as many of the \\"historians\\" on which Dan Brown relied for his own research, making wild leaps of logic and mortaring historical gaps with assumption and preconception.     For Brown, this was fine; he was writing fiction.  But Lunn claims to be telling the \\"truth\\" - a truth no one can possibly know after two millenia of obfuscation.  So what Lunn ACTUALLY does is recount Dan Brown's research without all of that confusing \\"plot\\" and none of those annoying \\"characters\\".  If you want to know the contents of Martin Lunn's book, read Dan Brown and at least be entertained while you do it.	2004-08-16
US	53069821	R1WC7W83DW1CPS	0451410300	1447963	The Second Assassin	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Not one of his best	As a longtime fan of Christopher Hyde's, I was disappointed to find this entry tedious and plodding.  I was bored by one of the main protagonists, Jane Todd, girl reporter, and only moderately interested in her Irish detective counterpart, Thomas Barry.<br />The hunt for John Bone, super-assassin, who has been hired to kill the King and Queen of England on the cusp of the US's entry into World War II, was not enough to hold my interest.  Bone was not sifficiently evil to raise suspense.  The subplot concerning a ranking IRA member was tedious and Bertie and Elizabeth, the victims, were portrayed awfully enough that one wished for Bone to succeed.<br />Especially disappointing was witnessing Hyde's giving in to the mores of popular fiction and allowing Todd and Barry to become romantically involved.  I am used to Hyde following less predictable and crowd-pleasing paths.<br />I understand the author has taken yet another step in the direction of Selling Out - he brings Jane Todd and another character from another book back, making them recurring characters.  If it works for him, I'm glad, but it is not something I'm thrilled to see.<br />This is a competently written and occasionally entertaining book, but not one of my favorites.	2004-06-21
US	53069821	R18L0TTC6DSUQL	0671699423	543627850	Crestwood Heights	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Futuristic Novel about Today	This was the first book I ever read by Christopher Hyde and it's still one of my favorites, even though the horror envisioned by Hyde in the 1980's has been far overshadowed by the reality of the 21st century.<br />Years before he start making a living producing comfortable espionage thrillers, Hyde produced quirky novels about botched train robberies and giant waves washing entire cities away.  He wandered the Stephen King trail with an End-of-the-World plague and this, Crestwood Heights, a techno-paranoia novel par excellence.<br />Kelly Rhine inherits her uncle's home in the new town of Crestwood Heights, situated in rural North Carolina, where the future is now, Big Brother is watching and boy, is he pissed.  Kelly isn't in town two days before she manages to upset one of the local bigwigs and strange things start happening to her.  While investigating, she uncovers a vast conspiracy of scientific evil.  I can't really say more than that or I'd give the whole thing away.<br />Hyde has a talent for creating a few believable characters amid his cliche stock, some never seen before in pulp fiction. Robin Spenser, for example, a gay ex-marine who runs a local bakery called Aunt Bea's.  Robin is gentle, heroic, strong and competent; in short, he is nothing like any gay character you'd have found in any other thriller in the 80's. Place him next to Philip Granger, the hotheaded leader of the local beautification society and Max Alexanian, the glittering, cold-hearted leader of the Cold Mountain Institute, and Robin is a towering example of originality.<br />Kelly herself, ostensibly the main character, is little more than a catalyst, bringing very little to the table that a paragraph of exposition might have.  Throughout the novel she allows things to happen to her, rather than effecting the changes herself.  Still, her gullibility moves the story forward.<br />This review is being written in the middle of 2004, when I have a card for every grocery store that offers me discounts in exchange for detailed reports about my shopping habits.  Just a week ago I was late for work because all the traffic in my town was stopped dead due to protesters fighting against bioengineered food.  We are actively working on cloning humans and harvesting stem cells.  Against my reality, the spooky paranoia evoked by Hyde rarely elicits a blip of concern.  But in 1988, when  first read the book, I was shocked, horrified and fascinated.	2004-06-18
US	53069821	R3MZ0W5L6F3G7O	0380753715	543627850	Crestwood Heights	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Modest Thriller	This was the first book I ever read by Christopher Hyde and it's still one of my favorites, even though the horror envisioned by Hyde in the 1980's has been far overshadowed by the reality of the 21st century.<br />Years before he start making a living producing comfortable espionage thrillers, Hyde produced quirky novels about botched train robberies and giant waves washing entire cities away.  He wandered the Stephen King trail with an End-of-the-World plague and this, Crestwood Heights, a techno-paranoia novel par excellence.<br />Kelly Rhine inherits her uncle's home in the new town of Crestwood Heights, situated in rural North Carolina, where the future is now, Big Brother is watching and boy, is he pissed.  Kelly isn't in town two days before she manages to upset one of the local bigwigs and strange things start happening to her.  While investigating, she uncovers a vast conspiracy of scientific evil.  I can't really say more than that or I'd give the whole thing away.<br />Hyde has a talent for creating a few believable characters amid his cliche stock, some never seen before in pulp fiction. Robin Spenser, for example, a gay ex-marine who runs a local bakery called Aunt Bea's.  Robin is gentle, heroic, strong and competent; in short, he is nothing like any gay character you'd have found in any other thriller in the 80's. Place him next to Philip Granger, the hotheaded leader of the local beautification society and Max Alexanian, the glittering, cold-hearted leader of the Cold Mountain Institute, and Robin is a towering example of originality.<br />Kelly herself, ostensibly the main character, is little more than a catalyst, bringing very little to the table that a paragraph of exposition might have.  Throughout the novel she allows things to happen to her, rather than effecting the changes herself.  Still, her gullibility moves the story forward.<br />This review is being written in the middle of 2004, when I have a card for every grocery store that offers me discounts in exchange for detailed reports about my shopping habits.  Just a week ago I was late for work because all the traffic in my town was stopped dead due to protesters fighting against bioengineered food.  We are actively working on cloning humans and harvesting stem cells.  Against my reality, the spooky paranoia evoked by Hyde rarely elicits a blip of concern.  But in 1988, when  first read the book, I was shocked, horrified and fascinated.	2004-06-18
US	53069821	RRP57XLCC4KJ3	0312095511	932766552	The Bridge of Birds: A Novel of an Ancient China That Never Was	Books	3	11	24	N	N	Bridge of Bored	Bridge of Birds by Barry Hughart is a modestly entertaining novel, by turns amusing and dull as a textbook.  With the author's tendency to grossly underplay certain story elements, it is simultaneously simplistic and confounding.  I suppose an optimist could look at these traits and say to himself, \\"This is a book that works on many levels.\\"  Being a pessimist, I'm afraid I fall under the, \\"This is a book that can't decide what it wants to be.\\"    Ostensibly this is a book about Lu Yu, nicknamed Number Ten Ox, who travels from his rural town to the big city to engage a wise man to return with him and cure the village's children of a deadly sleeping sickness (fortunately the sickness is not so deadly that the heros cannot fart around for a year or so before actually helping the sick children).  The only wise man willing to work for the paltry sum offered by Number 10 Ox is Li Kao, a twinkly-eyed old drunk who has the perplexing ability to con anyone out of vast sums of money (putting into question his insistence on sleeping on the floor in a dirty old tenement in the first place).  The cure takes the two on a romp through a mythical old China peopled with the kind of moronic rubes found in all fairy tales - those greedy and stupid enough to hand over their money just because someone tells them they'll be receiving some magic beans and a donkey that poops gold coins.    Hughart stretches this hoary old chestnut within an inch of its elasticity as Master Li and Ox wander from city to city collecting bits of the Great Root of Power in order to effect the cure.  But at times it appears that the only real purpose in doing all this traveling is to get Number 10 Ox laid, for he winds up in bed with a woman in every town.  I expect this was meant to be amusing, but eventually became merely tedious.    I am not generally prudish, but I found myself startled by the astounding amount of violence in this book.  Couched in amusing anecdotes and twinkly narrative are hundreds uponhundreds of murders enacted by or caused by the two \\"heros\\".  I could see in many cases that the doomed characters deserved their fate, but not all.      Bridge of Birds has its moments, but I didn't find it to be the gem of which so many reviewers wrote.  Still, I liked it enough that if I come across the sequels, I will surely read them, but I won't be traipsing hundreds of leagues, murdering everyone who gets in my way, to find them.  I may not even cross the street.	2004-06-18
US	53069821	R2GOLG0XYZ4U2P	0971880107	298059673	Wild Animus: A Novel	Books	1	156	161	N	N	I Have Some Wild Animosity for this Book	This is easily one of the worst books I have ever read.  It's difficult to believe that a publisher can have read this manuscript and thought it was publishable.  Why, wait a minute!  The publishing house, Too Far, was founded by this book's author, Richard Shapero!  Well, that explains the lack of serious editing or promotion.<br />&quot;Wild Animus&quot; is a fantasy about the 60's.  By &quot;fantasy&quot;, I mean that it is a story written by someone who knows nothing about the 60's and made things up as he went along.  The main characters, Sam and Lindy, are fictional hippies who speak in stilted diatribes about enlightenment, empowerment and oppression.  All written by an author who apparently has never been enlightened, empowered or oppressed.<br />The dialog throughout reads like someone who has never heard a conversation, and has only read bad poetry in translation.  The actions are those of people who have no sense.<br />I canot, cannot believe anyone would consider this book publishable, let alone start his own company with the intention of publishing it.  Please do not read this book.	2004-06-10
US	53069821	R2TI6H46G28FSY	0399149775	563294014	Back Story (Spenser Mystery)	Books	3	24	26	N	N	Got Two Hours to Kill?	I don't know what compels me to keep reading Robert B. Parker's &quot;Spenser&quot; series.  The plotting has become almost nonexistent, the dialog is recycled from book to book, the books are getting shorter and shorter and Parker mainly seems to amuse himself by seeing how many characters from previous books he can pack into the current one, so it obviously isn't for the fresh, original take on the private eye genre.<br />But it's still fun, dammit.  Somehow, Parker always manages to engage my attention.  The interaction between Hawk and Spenser still amuses, Spenser's twisted honor code still thrills and Susan's soppy shrinkiness still annoys.<br />In this outing, we are on the hunt for the perpetrator of a killing 30 years in the past.  The actual plot is incidental, as Parker seems to be making things up as he goes.  The characters are, as usualy, thinly written and heavily dependent on stereotypes.  But Spenser gamely travels from Boston to New Hampshire to California and back, giving us all our two hour's worth of lively description and jaunty heroism.<br />If you are already a fan of the series, you've already bought this one and don't need my review.  But if you are not already a fan, don't start here.  Go back to the fabulous days of Ceremony, A Catskill Eagle, The Judas Goat and you will become a fan, ready to read and grouse over each new entry in the Parker oeuvre.	2004-04-23
US	53069821	RN6POCZKNIW7M	0671699431	425802908	Egypt Green	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The Best Action Author You've Never Read	I accidentally acquired my first Christopher Hyde novel two dozen years ago when I discovered it in a bag of books I had brought home from a bookstore near my house.  They were closing and offered a container full of books for a dollar.  One fellow used the back of his station wagon as a &quot;container&quot;.  I made do with a grocery sack.<br />When you've got a grocery sack and no time to fill it, you will later find any manner of book in your collection.  I got true crime, mystery, cookbooks, political diatribe.  And somewhere in there I managed to pick up Egypt Green by Christopher Hyde.  At the time, I dismissed it as fluff - typical paranoiac potboiler stuff about government evil, bubonic plague and kids kidnaped to repopulate the world.  I tossed it aside, intending to look at it later, but knowing I probably wouldn't.<br />Fast forward to last year.  I was in a motorcycle accident and broke my hands and elbows.  After a few days watching TV became interminable and I switched to books.  I read everything in the TBR pile and, in desperation, in my long-forgotten sack of books.  And Egypt Green, with some trepidation.<br />But here's the rub, readers.  It was good.  It was damned good.  Hyde created the right amount of tension, mostly believable characters, an interesting plot and page-turner of a book.  Sure, there are some elements that don't quite add up, like the nearly-perfect Devon, a teenaged girl who is as competent and deadly as a CIA assassin, the unlikely coincidence at the and and the neat, too-quick wrap up, but overall this was an enjoyable book, with sharp, interesting writing, following the stories of several players in the aforementioned plot to infect the third world with plague.  Toby Hagen, the teen prodigy, one of those chosen to carry on and repopulate, Devon, the girl who loves him, Mickey, a reporter and Wolfe, a former astronaut kidnaped and forced to participate in the plot.  <br />Also introduced, but under utilized, is Willie Chang,a Hawaiian-Chinese drug smuggler who helps the group get to the bottom of the evil plot. <br />Since reading this book, I've gone on to read a dozen or so more of Hyde's books and he just keeps getting better.  His books are well-researched, based in fact and terrifyingly plausible.  I recommend him highly.	2004-03-26
US	53069821	R3DNKKFZV0308F	1565920988	790112961	PGP: Pretty Good Privacy	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Depends on What You're Looking For	If you want to learn how to use PGP from a UNIX command line, this is the book for you.  If you want to know the history of encryption and the development of PGP as a tool.  This, too, may be the book for you.<br />If you want to use the Windows version of PGP, this is not the book for you.  <br />Simon Garfinkel's PGP is certainly informative and is written in light, breezy language that makes it easy reading for even the least technical.  But, sadly, this book is so out of date as to be entirely useless with regard to actually using PGP today.	2004-03-26
US	53069821	R2BLY8770O8IVX	0671699431	425802908	Egypt Green	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Best Action Author You've Never Read	I accidentally acquired my first Christopher Hyde novel two dozen years ago when I discovered it in a bag of books I had brought home from a bookstore near my house.  They were closing and offered a container full of books for a dollar.  One fellow used the back of his station wagon as a &quot;container&quot;.  I made do with a grocery sack.<br />When you've got a grocery sack and no time to fill it, you will later find any manner of book in your collection.  I got true crime, mystery, cookbooks, political diatribe.  And somewhere in there I managed to pick up Egypt Green by Christopher Hyde.  At the time, I dismissed it as fluff - typical paranoiac potboiler stuff about government evil, bubonic plague and kids kidnaped to repopulate the world.  I tossed it aside, intending to look at it later, but knowing I probably wouldn't.<br />Fast forward to last year.  I was in a motorcycle accident and broke my hands and elbows.  After a few days watching TV became interminable and I switched to books.  I read everything in the TBR pile and, in desperation, in my long-forgotten sack of books.  And Egypt Green, with some trepidation.<br />But here's the rub, readers.  It was good.  It was damned good.  Hyde created the right amount of tension, mostly believable characters, an interesting plot and page-turner of a book.  Sure, there are some elements that don't quite add up, like the nearly-perfect Devon, a teenaged girl who is as competent and deadly as a CIA assassin, the unlikely coincidence at the and and the neat, too-quick wrap up, but overall this was an enjoyable book, with sharp, interesting writing, following the stories of several players in the aforementioned plot to infect the third world with plague.  Toby Hagen, the teen prodigy, one of those chosen to carry on and repopulate, Devon, the girl who loves him, Mickey, a reporter and Wolfe, a former astronaut kidnaped and forced to participate in the plot.  <br />Also introduced, but under utilized, is Willie Chang,a Hawaiian-Chinese drug smuggler who helps the group get to the bottom of the evil plot. <br />Since reading this book, I've gone on to read a dozen or so more of Hyde's books and he just keeps getting better.  I recommend him highly.	2004-03-26
US	53069821	R5THFUP3GR4TH	0440111323	996921601	A Catskill Eagle (Spenser, Book 12)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Soars Higher than Most	I just finished Robert B. Parker's &quot;A Catskill Eagle&quot; for the fifth time in as many years.  I didn't intend for it to become a yearly ritual, but it has done that and I'm happy for it.<br />Eagle is the book that makes Spenser epic, that cements the bond between Spenser and Hawk among the great literary friendships.  It is Parker's way of enforcing the comparisons between his own Spenser and the unstoppable, nameless knight of Edmund Spenser's &quot;Faerie Queen&quot;.  It is more than a knight's tale, more than a picaresque, more than a detective novel.  <br />To rescue Susan from her other lover, a rich, cruel and brutal man, Spenser and Hawk cut a swath of destruction across America.  In order to secure the distressed damsel, they commit murder and arson and eventually sign on for an assassination.  As an example of the depths of love and fealty, this book ranks up there with The Sun Also Rises.  As an action-adventure it is perfect.  As a hilarious buddy comedy it belongs in the same cabinet as any Hope/Crosby road film.<br />If there is a weak spot in this novel, it is in Russell Costigan himself, Susan's lover.  In his desire to make Russell the very opposite of Spenser, he makes him dislikable, crude, a whiny, insecure neanderthal undeserving of Susan's love or attention.  It makes her decision bewildering and unbelievable, despite Parker's attempts to explain.<br />But this book isn't about Russell.  It's not even about Susan.  It is about the quest.  It is about the things around us that define who we are and how we respond when we are needed.  And in that, it succeeds far beyond almost anything else you will read in this genre.	2004-03-22
US	53069821	R1A67MND0E5AX4	0312284853	734489567	The Devil's Hearth: A Fever Devilin Mystery	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Catch Depoy's Fever	Mystery fans, please remove your hats and bow your heads for the passing of a great detective - Flap Tucker, Zen detective, seems to be no more.  After four charming, funny and intriguing mysteries(and one alarmingly ill-tempered and pissy one), starring the mysterious and easy-going finder of lost things and set in Atlanta, Georgia author Phillip Depoy seems to have laid Flap to rest.<br />But enough of the boohooing, boys and girls, because Depoy has rewarded those of us who stuck around after the lights went down with a new hero, one who is much like Flap, but somehow more mature and insightful, while maintaining the former detective's flummoxed charm.  <br />Fever Devilin hails from another part of Georgia, the beautiful and spooky Appalachian Mountains.  Fever has been living in self-imposed exile in Atlanta, which is physically only a few hours' drive from the mountains, but is on another planet ideologically.  In this first adventure we find him returning home to find a corpse on his front porch, one that turns out to be his half-brother.  Fever decides to investigate, but has been gone from his tight-knit and close-mouthed community that he is now considered an outsider and can barely get an answer from his friends and neighbors.<br />Depoy's characters, as always, are delightfully complex.  They are true to themselves and their motivations, even as they are sometimes frustratingly obtuse.  The relationship between Fever and his best friend, Skidmore, is a realistic portrayal of two friends, long separated, picking up where they left off, with warmth, trepidation and eventual trust.  Fever himself is a worthy successor to Flap.<br />Depoy writes the Appalachians like he lives them, bringing life to the dark, smoky woods and guiding us through with a tracker's eye.  I look forward to the next Fever Devilin mystery.	2004-03-11
US	53069821	R2GF0PBHP3TYPC	0312284853	734489567	The Devil's Hearth: A Fever Devilin Mystery	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Catch DePoy's Fever	Mystery fans, please remove your hats and bow your heads for the passing of a great detective - Flap Tucker, Zen detective, seems to be no more.  After four charming, funny and intriguing mysteries(and one alarmingly ill-tempered and pissy one), starring the mysterious and easy-going finder of lost things and set in Atlanta, Georgia author Phillip Depoy seems to have laid Flap to rest.<br />But enough of the boohooing, boys and girls, because Depoy has rewarded those of us who stuck around after the lights went down with a new hero, one who is much like Flap, but somehow more mature and insightful, while maintaining the former detective's flummoxed charm.  <br />Fever Devilin hails from another part of Georgia, the beautiful and spooky Appalachian Mountains.  Fever has been living in self-imposed exile in Atlanta, which is physically only a few hours' drive from the mountains, but is on another planet ideologically.  In this first adventure we find him returning home to find a corpse on his front porch, one that turns out to be his half-brother.  Fever decides to investigate, but has been gone from his tight-knit and close-mouthed community that he is now considered an outsider and can barely get an answer from his friends and neighbors.<br />Depoy's characters, as always, are delightfully complex.  They are true to themselves and their motivations, even as they are sometimes frustratingly obtuse.  The relationship between Fever and his best friend, Skidmore, is a realistic portrayal of two friends, long separated, picking up where they left off, with warmth, trepidation and eventual trust.  Fever himself is a worthy successor to Flap.<br />Depoy writes the Appalachians like he lives them, bringing life to the dark, smoky woods and guiding us through with a tracker's eye.  I look forward to the next Fever Devilin mystery.	2004-03-11
US	53069821	RZ4347N1WQ0CH	0517074354	686263120	Curses!: A Gideon Oliver Mystery	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Curses!  Spoiled Again!	I just finished reading Curses! for the third time and I enjoyed it just as much as the first two.  Oh, sure, I know whodunnit now, so the enjoyment is purely in Aaron Elkins' light, charming writing and the likability of his characters.  Gideon Oliver, the &quot;bone detective&quot; who always seems to come across ancient bodies to explore, his wife, Julie, who always figures things out before anyone else and Abe, the alter cocker who taught Gabriel everything he knows.  <br />Gideon's on a dig in Mexico, unearthing an ancient Mayan temple that just happens to be cursed.  Someone else on the dig seems bent on convincing everyone that the curse is coming true.  When bodies start piling up, Gideon and Julie go into action.<br />I love the Gideon Oliver series.  They are everything a mystery should be - inventive, fun, informative - and this one in particular is my favorite.  I've been spoiled by Aaron Elkins' comfortable, fun style and I hope you will be, too.	2004-02-27
US	53069821	R23H29ETYVHQGR	0312150644	229277212	Beyond the Beyond	Books	3	4	6	N	N	Beyond Believability	Charlie Willis is back in another TV mystery, this time about the misadventures of a new network attempting to revive a Star Trek-like show from the sixties, called Beyond the Beyond, and a rogue talent agency.  Charlie, now a security chief for his old studio, is assigned to protect a studio writer who is being threatened by the talent agency who wants to sign him.  <br />Things get waaaaay out of hand when the actor who once played Beyond the Beyond's Captain, now a psychotic recluse, orders his fans to kill the new cast.  In order to figure out what's going on, Charlie has to go undercover as the NEW captain in order to draw out the assassins.<br />This is an amusing farce and I read the whole book in a single sitting, but I can understand why Goldberg didn't keep writing about this cast of characters - there's only so much about TV you can make fun of...it's already a joke.	2004-02-12
US	53069821	R3SWVZITPEE2D2	0595270255	155710055	My Gun Has Bullets	Books	4	2	3	N	N	My Gun is Hilarious	Lee Goldberg's My Gun Has Bullets is definitely one of the crazier, funnier books I've come across in a very long time.  he situations are broad and unbelievable, but there is enough truth there to make you wonder.  <br />The situation, in which the Mob finances a television series and, when the show doesn't do as well as expected, begins killing off the stars of the competing shows, is not in itself laugh out loud funny, but Goldberg's deft poking manages to create humor out of a silly premise.<br />The erstwhile star of the book, Charlie Willis, is also the novel's main flaw - he's just too good to be believed.  He's a gentle, kind, aw-shucks ex-cop who gets his own TV series.  When the competition staerts dropping like flies, he acts like a cop once again, hunting the killers.  <br />If you're interested at all in the makings of a TV program, you'll enjoy this book.  Though tongue-in-cheek, there's enough truth to make you think.  The comedy is broad, (think Woody Allen's early films), the writing is above-average and the novel is entertaining,  What more did you want?	2004-02-12
US	53069821	RR8SH0FV5G4FD	1558171185	39666025	The Da Vinci Legacy	Books	2	0	0	N	N	The Da Vinci Embarrassment	I just finished Lewis Purdue's The da Vinci Legacy after several jerky starts.  No matter how many times I started it, I was unable to find the hook, the interesting thing that would pull me in and keep me reading.  After 400 pages, I still had not found it.<br />I don't think it has escaped anyone's notice that Purdue's publishers, sitting on a cache of awful books for the last twenty years, became aware that Dan Brown's similarly -named and -themed book had skyrocketed to the top of the bestseller charts.  &quot;Hey,&quot; the must have thought to themselves.  &quot;We have some books that just might sell now that someone else has cracked the elusive Da Vinci conspiracy market.&quot;  So Purdue's books were reissued (with an appropriate bump in retail price) and released upon an unsuspecting and gullible public.  By which I mean me.<br />What the publishers failed to recognize, however, is that Dan Brown is able to tell a story with words on paper (he's a bad writer, but his storytelling skills are top-notch).  Purdue, on the other hand, would have difficulty writing a Mad-lib and making it interesting.<br />It's rare to come across a writer as ham-fisted and inept as Purdue, whose heroes are manly and capable, whose villains are purest evil and whose plotting is nearly non-existent.  Vance Erickson, the main hero, is an everyday joe who just happens to be able to find oil where no one else can and who also just happens to be one of the world's foremost amateur Da Vinci scholars.  Lucky, then, that it is he and no other who comes across the bogus codex and recognizes it for what it is.  Suzanne Storm is a reporter for a fluffy culture magazine who also happens to be a former CIA operative.  In true hammy heroic fashion, the two, who initially can't stand one another, fall in love after the first gun battle.<br />The villains are a band of excommunicated Catholic monks who seem to be behind every famous missing-persons case in history.  They want the codex so theycan work their nefarious evil by turning its contents into the most powerful weapon ever created.  Apparently they were extremely competent until the present, when they keep conking Vance on the head and storing him in locked rooms from which he escapes easily, instead of just killing him.  That's the whole of the suspense in this book; Vance getting conked on the head and escaping.<br />In other areas, Purdue's writing is just plain embarrassing to read.  His exposition reads like he simply transcribed a Who's Who entry.  His romantic pronouncements are as real and heart-felt as a teenaged girl's.  His action sequences are so dull I had to physically restrain myself from flipping forward.<br />There are many, many better ways to spend your time than with this book.  Try plucking all the hairs out of your arm with tweezers: it's bound to be more interesting and rewarding than reading a Lewis Purdue novel.	2004-02-12
US	53069821	R21KR8M9SRABP6	0595270255	155710055	My Gun Has Bullets	Books	4	8	10	N	N	My Gun is Hilarious	Lee Goldberg's My Gun Has Bullets is definitely one of the crazier, funnier books I've come across in a very long time.  he situations are broad and unbelievable, but there is enough truth there to make you wonder.  <br />The situation, in which the Mob finances a television series and, when the show doesn't do as well as expected, begins killing off the stars of the competing shows, is not in itself laugh out loud funny, but Goldberg's deft poking manages to create humor out of a silly premise.<br />The erstwhile star of the book, Charlie Willis, is also the novel's main flaw - he's just too good to be believed.  He's a gentle, kind, aw-shucks ex-cop who gets his own TV series.  When the competition staerts dropping like flies, he acts like a cop once again, hunting the killers.  <br />If you're interested at all in the makings of a TV program, you'll enjoy this book.  Though tongue-in-cheek, there's enough truth to make you think.  The comedy is broad, (think Woody Allen's early films), the writing is above-average and the novel is entertaining,  What more did you want?	2004-02-12
US	53069821	R28IYE44SRS2IU	0765349671	39666025	The Da Vinci Legacy	Books	2	3	6	N	N	The Da Vinci Embarrassment	I just finished Lewis Purdue's The da Vinci Legacy after several jerky starts.  No matter how many times I started it, I was unable to find the hook, the interesting thing that would pull me in and keep me reading.  After 400 pages, I still had not found it....<br />It's rare to come across a writer as ham-fisted and inept as Purdue, whose heroes are manly and capable, whose villains are purest evil and whose plotting is nearly non-existent.  Vance Erickson, the main hero, is an everyday joe who just happens to be able to find oil where no one else can and who also just happens to be one of the world's foremost amateur Da Vinci scholars.  Lucky, then, that it is he and no other who comes across the bogus codex and recognizes it for what it is.  Suzanne Storm is a reporter for a fluffy culture magazine who also happens to be a former CIA operative.  In true hammy heroic fashion, the two, who initially can't stand one another, fall in love after the first gun battle.<br />The villains are a band of excommunicated Catholic monks who seem to be behind every famous missing-persons case in history.  They want the codex so they can work their nefarious evil by turning its contents into the most powerful weapon ever created.  Apparently they were extremely competent until the present, when they keep conking Vance on the head and storing him in locked rooms from which he escapes easily, instead of just killing him.  That's the whole of the suspense in this book; Vance getting conked on the head and escaping.<br />In other areas, Purdue's writing is just plain embarrassing to read.  His exposition reads like he simply transcribed a Who's Who entry.  His romantic pronouncements are as real and heart-felt as a teenaged girl's.  His action sequences are so dull I had to physically restrain myself from flipping forward.<br />There are many, many better ways to spend your time than with this book.  Try plucking all the hairs out of your arm with tweezers: it's bound to be more interesting and rewarding than reading a Lewis Purdue novel.	2004-02-11
US	53069821	R3VPDVLOOGXX9W	0425192989	454840762	The Judas Virus	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Awesome Thriller by the Author of Do No Harm	The Judas Virus opens with a bang and keeps us guessing until the very end, which is just what I like in a thriller.  Author David Best (some might know his as Don Donaldson) handles his latest book with his usual precision and skill.<br />Chris Collins is a doctor in an Atlanta hospital who is confronted by her terminally-ill father, Wayne, years after he had walked out of her and her mother's life.  With unparalleled gall, he asks her to donate a piece of her liver so that he might live.  She refuses, but pulls some strings to get him accepted in an experimental program.<br />The suspense builds when an unknown virus affects not only ayne, but the nurses who treat him.  But the weird thing is that the virus makes the infectees feel better, healing old wounds and salving aches - right up until it makes them blind and kills them.<br />Chris and her colleague Michael suspect there's more going on than meets the eye and begin a private investigation, which draws a killer's attention to them.<br />Reading David Best is like riding Splash Mountain at Disneyland.  The ride is mesmerizing, with plenty to draw your attention and keep your interest, right up until you drop off the side of the mountain, your heart in your throat.  The suspense here builds slowly, tantalizingly, and the payoff is a good one.<br />One of Best's best features as a writer is his economy of words - every word is chosen for maximum effect.  His characters and motivations are real enough to make you believe the action.  And that's no mean feat.  I recommend The Judas Virus and I can't wait to see what he does next.	2003-11-26
US	53069821	R10R0STD2EHQBE	0425192989	454840762	The Judas Virus	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Awesome Thriller	The Judas Virus opens with a bang and keeps us guessing until the very end, which is just what I like in a thriller. Author David Best (some might know his as Don Donaldson) handles his latest book with his usual precision and skill.<BR>Chris Collins is a doctor in an Atlanta hospital who is confronted by her terminally-ill father, Wayne, years after he had walked out of her and her mother's life. With unparalleled gall, he asks her to donate a piece of her liver so that he might live. She refuses, but pulls some strings to get him accepted in an experimental program.<br />The suspense builds when an unknown virus affects not only ayne, but the nurses who treat him. But the weird thing is that the virus makes the infectees feel better, healing old wounds and salving aches - right up until it makes them blind and kills them.<br />Chris and her colleague Michael suspect there's more going on than meets the eye and begin a private investigation, which draws a killer's attention to them.<br />Reading David Best is like riding Splash Mountain at Disneyland. The ride is mesmerizing, with plenty to draw your attention and keep your interest, right up until you drop off the side of the mountain, your heart in your throat. The suspense here builds slowly, tantalizingly, and the payoff is a good one.<br />One of Best's best features as a writer is his economy of words - every word is chosen for maximum effect. His characters and motivations are real enough to make you believe the action. And that's no mean feat. I recommend The Judas Virus and I can't wait to see what he does next.	2003-11-26
US	53069821	R17UUJFRLS46TP	0743400380	99117539	Oz: Into the Wild (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Oz: Into the Weird	I try to write balanced reviews.  I try to delineate what an author does well and where he screwed up in even doses whenever possible.  Well, that's just not going to be possible with this book, because Christopher Golden did nothing right with \\"Into the Wild\\".  This book is a disappointment from beginning to end.<br />Let's start with Oz himself, our favorite cold-blooded jelly donut.  Oz is an intense presence, a sponge who soaks up everything around him, cogitates and usually returns a thoughtful gem of truth.  The guy in this novel was fairly chatty, never insightful and kind of dorky.<br />The story: novels about self-discovery have rules, one of the most important being, the person must discover HIMSELF.  Oz does not truly come to know himself during the course of the story.  he hops a ship, chats with some folks, meets some demons, gets chased by a werewolf hunter.  But he never approaches the elusive self, the animal within.  Twice Christopher Golden uses the hoary old werewolf plot device, the full moon countdown...\\"Dateline: Two Days until full moon\\".  If used properly, this can be an effective suspense builder; we know Oz is a good guy and, in the past, the Scooby Gang has always been there to make sure his honor stays intact and he doesn't kill any innocents.  But here, alone, without friends, what will the animal inside do?  How will he cope?  How will we deal with seeing our boy Oz as a savage killer, remorseful and even more driven to curb his wild side?  Well, we won't.  Because Golden cheaps out and Oz manages to find someone to lock him up JUST IN TIME!  It's a copout the first time Golden does this to us; it's insulting the second.<br />For some inexplicable reason, Golden introduces us to a hot-tempered Fire Demon chick who rides Oz's coattails to Tibet, where she, too, will learn to control her talents.  So, somehow, Golden manages to divert the focus from Oz onto this dull, petty, whiny little sprite without enough sense to duck when people arehurling things at her.<br />And don't get me started on the Tibetan werewolf monks.  Jeez.  I'd rather live in any town in any \\"Seven Samurai\\" remake than hook myself up to these clowns.  It's like they hung a sign on the door that says \\"Come in and kill us.  We'll leave the light on for ya\\".<br />The pacing was awful, the writing was awful, the characterization was awful.  And, oh yeah, the book was awful.	2003-11-24
US	53069821	R3UTJBC07BEPQM	0312227329	575337581	Midnight Dreary: The Mysterious Death of Edgar Allan Poe	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Interesting and Compelling	Those who take issue with John Evangelist Walsh's &quot;Midnight Dreary&quot; are, I think, missing the point.  Certainly, there is truth to the suggestion that this is two books, one, a detailed recreation of the last days of Poe and two,  the author's attempt to make sense of the random data and form a reasonable explanation.<br />In the first instance, Walsh succeeds beyond one's expectations.  I ahve read dozens of biographies of Poe and have not come across a good deal of this material.  Letters, journal entries, recollections of personal interviews - Walsh succeeds in bringing extant material to light.<br />In the second endeavor, Walsh has not been as successful.  In my opinion, he falls into every theorists greatest trap - attempting to bend the facts to fit his hypothesis.  In several cases, Walsh accuses his subjects of faulty memory and/or outright embellishment.  &quot;Such and such can not have occurred on this date, but if we assume that the wrier was incorrect and it actually occurred on blah-blah date, then it all makes sense.&quot;  No.  No and no.  As observers of history, we do not have the luxury of assuming those who lived it were forgetful liars.<br />Nonetheless, this IS an interesting book and it is a treasure trove of data for those interested in Poe's death.  Additionally, it is written in an interesting, conversational style that I found quite readable.  I enjoyed this book, as a reader and as an historian.	2003-11-23
US	53069821	R33ATRF3Y9O4D9	0553579991	669135791	The Raven and the Nightingale	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Quoth the Reader, &quot;Nevermore&quot;	Joanne Dobson's mystery of academia is a passable book.  It certainly wasn't unpleasant to read, but I don't feel I gained much from reading it.  Most of the facts in the life of Edgar Allan Poe were known to me prior to reading this novel, but since the Poe connection was what drew me to the book, I can't help but feeling a little cheated.  That's my issue, though, not yours.<br />Main character Karen Pelletier is innocuous enough, and the book is at it's most interesting in the classroom scenes, where Dobson is able to inject some life into Pelletier's dialog.  Other than that, she's just a ham-fisted academic trying to act sly when asked to question her fellow professors after the murder of a colleague.<br />I didn't get a read on any of the other characters at Enfield College.  Most were academic archetypes rather than true characters.  I was neither intrigued nor interested in the petty squabbling and ca't get behind any murder motivated by achieving tenure.<br />The love interest/cop is an okay guy, smart in a Matlock kind of way, which is to say that he seems dumb on first meeting.  Unfortunately, it will be my only reading because this book just didn't grab me and make me want to read the rest of the series.<br />On a semi-related note, it's kind of sad that some people have built certain literary figures up to the point that they are unable to see his flaws.  Poe was a deeply flawed man, very whiny and of dubious character.  He really did many of the things of which Dobson accuses him.  That makes him no less a genius, no less fascinating.	2003-11-18
US	53069821	R2N2XLJSZYJ72K	0938530038	937666408	Short History of New Orleans	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Best History I've Read	For a &quot;Short History&quot;, this little book is jam-packed with interesting information, trivial asides, entertaining anecdotes and just about anything having to do with New Orleans.  <br />One feature of the Short History series that I really like are the marginal lagniappes - little stories relating to the main text, but printed in the margins.  <br />I was stunned at the amount of knowledge crammed between these covers - I've read a lot of NOLA history and larger books don't really come close.  Sure, they expand information, but for the casual, non-historian reader, that might be overkill.	2003-10-21
US	53069821	R132R53ZR8WXHX	0812523857	346562004	An Old Friend of the Family	Books	2	8	18	N	N	A Fiend in the Family	I didn't particularly like The Dracula Tapes, but I thought that might have been because it seemed forced; Saberhagen was obliged to stick with the &quot;facts&quot; as written by Bram Stoker, which produced some very silly and unintentionally comical results.<br />I was sufficiently entertained so as to be drawn to a second novel, hoping that the author might do better when not fettered by the chains of existing narrative.  I selected &quot;An Old Friend of the Family&quot; because it is an early book and might still retain something fresh.<br />I was dead wrong.  Writing in 81, Saberhagen makes attempts to modernize his tale of Dracula coming to rescue Mina Harker's descendants but those efforts now seem dated and comical.  The entire setup, about Morgan Le Fay and her minions, seems forced.  And kidnaping Dracula by whacking him on the head with a wooden stake just seems ridiculous.<br />This book is the one that pretty much convinced me not to bother with the rest of the series.	2003-09-18
US	53069821	R1NDVT39GWOSY0	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Will Potter Rise Again?	After gaining my interest with the first four Harry Potter books, author Rowling managed to use up all of my good will in a single reading of \\"Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix\\".  Harry has grown into a whiny teenaged punk with attitude and an opinion on everything.  Some have suggested this makes Harry believable, as this is how real teenagers act.  To them I say: if I wanted to be exposed to real teenagers, I wouldn't be reading fantasy, would I?<br />For a book coming in at well over the 500-page mark, HPOP actually has very little to say.  Fortunately, however, it says it repeatedly, so those of you who missed on the first go will be bonked on the head until comprehension sets in. The actions of the book's principle players are inexplicably out of character and convoluted, which allows the book to ramble on, creating false tension.  If anyone spoke his mind and cleared the air, the book would be a one hundred-page pamphlet.<br />This is not to say that parts of the book are not enjoyable.  Many have pointed out the darker tone to this book, which makes it more entertaining to me.  Rowling has also retained the signature humor.  But I'd be happier if she learned to tell her tale, drop the adjectives and remember which characters are which, so they don't get confused about whether they are supposed to be helping Harry or hindering him, concealing the truth or exposing it.  And if Harry himself could just bring himself to say, \\"I'm sorry,\\" he might have a powerful friend for life.	2003-09-16
US	53069821	R1HV8YMUEBGX74	0345463331	861728616	Fat White Vampire Blues	Books	3	4	5	N	Y	Funny, Tragic Vampire Novel	\\"Fat, White Vampire Blues\\", Andrew Fox's debut novel (rather, his \\"first to see print\\" according to the author bio), is an entertaining bit of treacle concerning new twists on vampire lore, as well as tried and true legends.  Like other vamp novels set in the Big Easy, it's a novel about decay and complacency, but it comes at the issue from an entirely different angle.<br />Jules Duchon has let everything get out of hand in the eighty years he's been a vampire.  He now weighs 450 pounds, lives in a dump of a house and drives a beat up cab for a \\"living\\".  His only friend is a fellow cabby - the others have been alienated and hounded out of his life, despite their love and loyalty for him.  His life turns upside-down when he puts the bite on a homeless black woman, only to have her become the object of a campaign for police reform and neighborhood sympathy.  Additionally (and more importantly), Jules? meal attracts the attention of \\"Malice X\\", a black vampire with an attitude and a grudge, who tells Jules his days of chowing down on black victims is over.<br />Like a certain other \\"husky\\" hero in a famed New Orleans novel, Jules goes into a blue funk, whining and bemoaning his fate, rather than fight back or change his ways.  But Jules is neither as vociferous or educated as Ignatius J. Reilly; he is merely whiny and annoying.  He runs crawling to Maureen, his vampire parent and ex-lover, who at first sends him packing, but finally relents and enlists the aid of Doodlebug, Jules' own vampire spawn.  This is where the novel gets really weird.<br />Fox obviously had a great time writing this book and was influenced by many other writers while writing it.  He must have read \\"The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay\\" before writing this.  How else to explain the bizarre backstory concerning Jules and Doodlebug's adventures during WWII as costumed superheroes, ridding the docs of Nazi saboteurs?  For fun, Fox writes that Doodlebug, a crossdresser, studied in Tibet withan enclave of vampire monks who learn to control their urges, just like a certain werewolf in a novel by Christopher Golden.  <br />Some of these elements seem distantly out of place, while others fit perfectly onto the broadly comic canvas of the author's page.  In the end, I enjoyed the experience of reading this book, though I often found myself rolling my eyes involuntarily.  I don't understand how an author might write that a vampire character is \\"dead\\", then talk about his irregular heartbeat and labored breathing, or suggest that he may have diabetes.  Or have him gain weight, a function based on metabolism, which a dead character should not experience.  But some over-the-top moments shouldn't stop you from reading this fun debut.  In fact, you should join me in applauding Andrew Fox for his willingness to be so unapologetically goofy.	2003-09-10
US	53069821	R1X5JP90YP75FU	0312246528	221850564	The Man of Maybe Half-A-Dozen Faces: A Novel	Books	1	2	6	N	N	Rubbish	From time to time, Ray Vukcevich's \\"Man of Maybe Half-a-Dozen Faces\\" pops up on my Amazon.com recommendations list.  It sounded interesting and funny; and had the benefit of having been compared to Lethem's \\"Gun, With Occasional Music\\".  I decided to try it.<br />I wish I hadn't.  It might still seem interesting and funny if I hadn't gone and ruined everything by reading it.<br />Brian Howells, the protagonist in this erstwhile comedic mystery is a disturbed fellow who dresses up in different outfits in order to a) disguise himself while sleuthing, and b) give voice to his different personalities, such as Tag, \\"The Average Guy\\", Dennis, the computer expert and Lulu.  He also is addicted to tap-dancing and has no friends other than those he consults over the chat rooms and Internet news groups.  He's hired to track down a killer who murders bad documentalists, those who produce incomprehensible computer manuals.<br />\\"Who am I and what do I want with you?\\" shouts Brian upon meeting his newest client.  This pretty much sets the tone for the whole novel - it's funny, but pretty inane.  What client would continue and hire someone so obviously disoriented and mentally ill?  The only way I was able to make sense of this book and not to throw it across the room was to imagine it taking place in an alternate universe, one where our accepted definitions of Multiple-Personality Disorder don't apply and where illicit tap-dancing parlors exist like turn-of-the-century opium dens.<br />In the end, that just wasn't enough.  Vukcevich thinks himself way to cute and clever, but his story just isn't smart enough to carry one through the inconsistencies and annoyances of his narrative.  <br />The next time it pops up as a recommendations, I think I'll just click \\"Not Interested\\" and move on.	2003-09-03
US	53069821	R3VW1LM40Q4QOX	0345381483	73924397	The California Voodoo Game (A Dream Park Novel)	Books	3	10	12	N	N	That Voodoo That They Do	This second followup to the cult hit &quot;Dream Park&quot; is not as good as its inspiration, but is mounds better than its predecessor, &quot;The Barsoom Project&quot;.  I'll save my Barsoom bashing for another review, though, and just talk about &quot;The California Voodoo Game&quot; in this one.<br />This novel has everything that was good about &quot;Dream Park&quot;, but still manages to be a tedious, less interesting version of the original.  Most of the familiar characters are back, Griffin, the tough-as-nails Security Chief with the heart of gold, Acacia Garcia, the tough-as-nails gamer with the squishy insides, Tony McWhirter, the hacker criminal made good.  They're all tossed into the Dream park salad to play a game called &quot;California Voodoo&quot;, which would be fine if not for the fact that - DUN DUN DUUUUUUUUUHHHH - someone get's murdered before the game and the Dream Park staff must infiltrate the game in order to catch the killer without setting off the alarms, spooking the gamers or losing their merchandising rights.<br />Just like the other two novels.<br />Sadly, this outing picks up a little of the creaky, world-weariness of the second book and keeps none of the rollicking, out and out fun of the first.  The concept of Voodoo magick played out in a gigantic, ruined building is at once interesting and limiting.  The authors, for all their bibliographic citations, show only a rudimentary understanding of &lt;i&gt;vodoun&lt;/i&gt; and its many variations.  The random appearance of loa is distracting and confusing.<br />The thing that was most fun about &quot;Dream Park&quot; was the fact that Griffin had to join a game as a player and track his prey from under cover; this meant the reader got to experience the game much as the players did.  Here, the real focus is on the investigation.  Too much takes place outside the game, too little explanation goes into the game and the authors don't really support the world they've created within the wallsof Dream Park.<br />Frankly, the mystery just isn't that compelling.  While the outcome may have cost Dream Park's parent company a ton of dough, I just didn't care.  While the villain had murdered someone in the beginning of the book, I just didn't care about the victim or the methods used to catch the killer.  What I DID care about was The Game.  And there just wasn't enough game to go around.<br />The writing duo's prose this time around is more accessible than in The Barsoom Project and those reading the series for the first time will not be too disappointed to finish here instead of there.  But overall, the magic feels like it's gone.	2003-08-08
US	53069821	RH0SALRRL9CBW	0743444094	9077745	Captain Nemo: The Fantastic History of a Dark Genius	Books	1	8	16	N	N	No Mo' Nemo.	I think the thing that bothers me most about this novel is the novelist. Had Anderson actually read any of the Verne's work, he might have understood how patently ridiculous the idea of a novel based on the \\"real\\" Captain Nemo is.<br />Why? Well, \\"Nemo\\" is a pseudonym, for one. It comes from The Odyssey. When Odysseus blinds the Cyclops, the creature roars out a demand for the name of the man who has done this to him. The answer is \\"Nemo\\", or \\"No man\\", which is how Odysseus tricks the Cyclops into lying to his brethren. \\"Who did this to you?\\" they ask. \\"Nobody. Nobody did this to me.\\"<br />So, Verne has his unnamed Captain adopt the name \\"Nemo\\" to show that he has separated from the world of men, and their greed and abuse. The idea that it is a true surname is absurd.<br />At the end of \\"The Mysterious Island\\", Verne reveals that Nemo is an expatriate Indian, which makes it even more unlikely that he would be around to befriend the boyhood version of Verne.<br />Of course, Verne could have made that bit up.<br />Tie it all to dull writing and a drab storyline and what you get is a dreary, dreary book that will make your blood boil with annoyance.	2003-08-04
US	53069821	R2L59OFI8Y1TYH	0441167306	544127140	Dream Park	Books	5	38	38	N	N	The One That Started it All	When I was a young'n, I discovered \\"Dream Park\\" and was utterly enthralled.  Gaming was, at the time, in its infancy.  Video games consisted of Missile Attack, PacMan and Centipede.  The world was at the brink of the first major technological revolution since the sixties and the possibilities were endless.  Authors Larry Niven and Steven Barnes took all that information and expanded it, suggesting the marriage of imagination and technology in a way that was new and exciting.  <br />The story is relatively simple.  A group of pretend adventurers suit up for a campaign called \\"The South Seas Treasure Game\\".  As in the early Role Playing Games, there are Dungeon Masters, warriors, magicians and thieves.  But the difference here is that they play in an artificial enclosure that has been enhanced with special effects, holograms, actors and a clever storyline.  The players get as close as possible to truly living their adventure.<br />The plot thickens when a security guard inside the park is murdered and the main suspects are those playing the game.  The park's head of security, Alex Griffin, joins the game to find the killer, but finds new meaning in the games he helps keep alive.<br />In my youth, this was all fascinating, thrilling stuff.  I wanted nothing more than for Dream Park to become reality.  The game was deftly plotted and there was a good deal of humor throughout.  The characters, except for Griffin, were not rendered well, but I didn't care.  They did their jobs as fodder for the game master's trickery and that was all I needed.  The authors' real genius lie in the descriptions of the workings of the park and of the game.<br />I recently reread Dream Park.  At the age of 40, the adventure still stands strong.  It's not exactly an adult's book, but neither is it strictly for young adults.  The ideas and concepts that were once fresh and startling are now old hat to readers of Neal Stephenson, Bruce Sterling and William Gibson, but the archaic ideas about what was possible add a sense of nostalgia, a glimpse of what the world was like when it stood on the rim of the present.  For this reason, Dream Park might be enjoyable to new readers, adults and teens alike.<br />Sadly, much of what was predicted has not yet come to pass.  Real-time gaming has not gone much further than seedy laser-tag parlors on the outskirts of town.  But I know it's possible.  It's going to happen.  I just need to be patient.	2003-07-24
US	53069821	R17PZILN19DHMD	0375422366	416229475	Flynn's World: A Novel	Books	3	12	13	N	N	McDonald's World is Getting a Little Smaller	When Francis Xavier Flynn was introduced in the pages of \\"Confess, Fletch\\", it was apparent that Gregory McDonald's success with \\"Fletch\\" wasn't a fluke.  The author's ability to create smart, funny and believable characters was notable and refreshing, even with a character as unbelievable as Flynn, a mysterious Inspector for the Boston Police Department who also worked for the shadowy No Name organization, a global agency that specializes in the quiet resolution of threats to world peace.<br />McDonald went on to write three subsequent novels starring the intrepid Flynn, his world expanded to include his musical family, his assistant and friend Cocky, who is partially paralyzed and his incompetent partner \\"Grover\\".  Each of these novels is funny, thoughtful and sharp.  It didn't take long to realize, however, that the Flynn novels were forums for McDonald to pontificate, to offer his own opinions on the state of the world.  They were no less enjoyable for this.<br />Now, many years after the last Flynn novel, \\"Flynn's In\\", McDonald has produced \\"Flynn's World\\", an oration on the evils of television, isolation and ignorance.  Flynn ponders the identity of the person or persons who nailed his daughter's classmate's ear to a tree and of the person or persons who send threatening notes to helpless old Harvard professors.  In typical style, Flynn employs his sons to spy on the school chum and putters around the Harvard campus, asking impertinent questions and making leaps of deductive logic that would make Sherlock Holmes tap his foot in annoyance. <br />Far from being one of Flynn's standard, entertaining romps, this fourth outing is a ponderous, pedantic drudge.  In the intervening years while Gregory McDonald was off creating the dull \\"Skylar\\" and the flavorless \\"Son of Fletch\\" books (not to mention the awful works of \\"literature\\" he foisted on an unsuspecting public), he seems to have forgotten how to write for someone truly clever, not merely bombastic.  Flynn nowseems older, world-weary.  This might be acceptable if the character had aged a dozen years in the interim, but this book takes place only a few weeks after the first one, \\"Flynn\\".<br />The writing is not as crisp as a fan might expect, the mysteries are not solvable by any means outside the brain of Flynn himself, and, once solved, are not satisfying.  They are incredible and vaguely unsettling.  And they ripple with meaning, not with a wink but with a bonk upon the head.<br />I am disappointed in this book, as I waited many months for its release, only to find that it is substandard McDonald, when I had expected a triumphant return.  Why else wait so long before releasing a book with a hero so long dormant, if not to dazzle?  Sadly, I remain undazzled.	2003-07-23
US	53069821	R348X71KU84AD8	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Great Thriller and a Dash of History	I suspect everyone else is rediscovering Dan Brown about now for the same reason I am; The DaVinci Code.  That thriller was so interesting and compelling that I was moved to go back and read his earlier works.  Like this one, Angels &amp; Demons, a thriller about the Brotherhood of the Illuminati resurfacing in the modern day to destroy the Catholic Church by blowing up Vatican City during the papal elections.<br />The detailed historical context, the scientific research and information and breakneck pace made this a truly satisfying book for me.  The writing itself was somewhat pedestrian and forced, especially through the endless scenes of expositional dialog (&quot;Antimatter?  I don't understand.  What's that?&quot;) that allow certain characters to ramble for pages, delivering vital, and interesting, but less than natural speeches.<br />For the villain, blowing up the Batican is not enough.  Dan Brown has made serial killers from secret societies seem a little fresher through the use of ambigrams - pictures of word that say the same thing upside-down and rightside-up - which have been turned into brands representing the four elements, and which are used to burn the symbols into the flesh of the four papal candidates who have been kidnaped.  So, much of the suspense comes not from wondering whether they'll catch the bad guy, but whether they'll be able to save the poor cardinals before they are dispatched.<br />One standout piece of good writing was the characterization of the young papal secretary whose faith, courage and strength serve as a call to the Catholic faithful and an example to the world of  what a pope could be.  I found myself moved by this character's speeches and actions, even though I am far from Catholic, or even religious.<br />The main character, John Langon, is impossibly smart and improbably employed as a symbologist at Yale University.  He is a sort of geeky version of the macho Dirk Pitt archetype, tireless, strong and resourceful.  But his background serves to make this a thriller more cerebral than simply raising the Titanic or some fanciful lost city. <br />Improbable is a good word for this novel.  Almost none of it is believable or possible, but Dan Brown weaves a fascinating world in which he is, at least, consistent and faithful to his own ideas.  It's interesting, it's exciting and it's a good precursor  or followup to The DaVinci Code, which is, laughably, almost the exact same book, with precisley the same flaws and draws.	2003-06-10
US	53069821	RZ8RGD07DJDG	0738860514	185326763	Artifacts	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Whew. What a stinker.	It's difficult to know what to make of Robert S. Taylor's \\"Artifacts\\". Published by self-publisher extraordinaire, XLibris, the tome costs nearly 50% more than a standard trade paperback, but price is not always an indicator of quality, is it? The cover is a crude, crayon drawing of a clawed hand, an ankh and a scary serpent, the sort of graphic you might find scrawled on a high-school student's notebook. The content of the book is the kind of thing you might find in the garbage can next to the slush-pile reader's desk in a real publishing house.<br />The story concerns Brian Miller, an archaeologist who has \\"graduated and has a degree and all\\", but makes a practice of slipping small artifacts in his shirt pockets, instead of leaving them in situ and cataloging them properly. Miller then inexplicably leaves the dig site to go home to New Orleans and visit with his chums, taking the ankh and some other purloined items with him.<br />Miller's chums, Lewis, whose lifestyle \\"allowed him to enjoy an unbelievable social life and the love of many women\\", and quiet Eric, are an odd pair who hurl hateful insults at one another and then claim to be only joking. <br />Before long, the magical, stolen objects start wreaking havoc before releasing the demon Lilith into our universe and the streets of New Orleans, forcing the three pals to join together and battle it out with the forces of evil.<br />The book is full of unintentional screamers and horrible dialog. Taylor, 23 when he wrote the book, writes like a Gen Xer speaks, without concern for the rules of grammar or punctuation. The plot is simplistic and full of filler; Taylor wants to write about the funny things he and his buddies used to say to each other more than he wants to tell a supernatural tale.<br />In one bewildering scene, an Algerian worker from the archaeological dig site, seeking revenge both for being fired and for the theft of the ankh, follows Miller onto the New Orleans-bound plane with an attach-casefull of explosives. Rather than detonate the bomb while airborne, which would at least kill Miller, the fellow waits until the plane lands, leaves the case behind, then tries to escape the blast by running and shoving people out of the way.<br />Moments later, after the nearly-empty plane has exploded, maintenance workers (MAINTENANCE WORKERS - investigating an airplane explosion?) discover the remains of a passenger seated on the plane with pieces of the detonator all over him. Neat trick, considering he would have been incinerated and it would have taken FAA investigators weeks to piece it together. Oh, yeah. He also had just escaped the plane by running and shoving people out of the way.<br />Upon release from her interdimensional prison, the demon-mother Lilith heads straight for Bourbon Street, where she lives it up with a passel o' Pina Coladas (she doesn't have to pay - she just hypnotizes the bartender) at a strip club, then sets up shop in an adult entertainment center.  Ahem.<br />During the course of the story, one of the intrepid heros changes into a bright orange dragon, Brian Miller crumbles to dust and a kindly old professor keels over in a death scene so funny you'll have to read it twice to make sure it's as bad as you think it is.<br />There's a cyborg, too,  but it makes my head hurt just to think about it.<br />On the one hand, I applaud Robert S. Taylor for having the fortitude to sit down and actually write 300 or so pages of fiction. That takes motivation and integrity. But to publish it as is, without bothering to edit, is both presumptious and deceptive. At least when one buys a professionally published novel, one has the expectation that the book will have been read by more than the author's immediate family and that someone might have tried to make the book readable. With the emerging world of self-publishing, we have no such safeguards. <br />\\"Artifacts\\" is a stinker of the first degree.	2003-04-10
US	53069821	R2JOJGUPXRNSVU	0515123498	553030444	Night Passage (Jesse Stone Novels)	Books	4	24	28	N	N	Just a Spark in the "Night"	It is usually not a good sign when a series author decides to branch out to a new series; it usually means that the author himself has become bored with his creation and wishes to stretch his writing muscles a bit with something new.  At best, this gives the faithful reader a new reason to enjoy his favorite author.  At worst, the previous creation becomes a sort of exercise in frustration as the writer focuses his attention on his new baby.<br />In Robert B. Parker's case, we get the latter.  Parker had already registered his continued contempt for his first creation, Spenser, by allowing the stories to get maudlin and sloppy, the margins to get wider and wider, and by publishing two installments of new Philip Marlowe adventures, as well as creating a new series starring a female private eye named Sunny Randall.  To add insult to injury, here are we are now with \\"Night Passage\\", a fourth series concerning an L.A. cop named Jesse Stone transplanted to Paradise, Massachusetts, a bucolic little town on the Atlantic Ocean.<br />Jesse, plagued by drink and a wishy-washy ex-wife, sets out to remake himself as Chief of Policein a town where no one knows his name.  But things get confusing when the department cat is murdered, followed by the killing of the previous chief of police and finally, a young, unwed mother.  Jesse is, underneath it all, a good cop, so he is able to pull himself together, solve the crimes and have casual sex with a couple of ladies, thereby working on his abandonment issues.<br />Parker seems intent on making Stone as different from Spenser as possible, but the differences are superficial.  Where Spenser is a hulking ex-boxer, Stone is slight.  Spenser enjoys a beer or a glass of fine champagne once in a while but is, ultimately, in control, but Stone is a drunk just barely keeping his head above water.  Where Spenser's relationship is stable to the point of saccharine sweetness, Stone's is wobbly.  Spenser has Hawk.  Stone has . . . Suitcase Simpson,. a gangly redheaded police officer.  But none of this matters.  The writer is still Parker, the soul is still Spenser.<br />Nearly half the novel is taken with Jesse's drive across country and settling in to Paradise.  By the time Parker gets around to leveling the plot, we almost wish he hadn't; it is ridiculously unlikely and unworthy of a writer of Parker's heart and intelligence.  <br />What makes this novel a good read are the spare, Hemingwayesque prose, the likeable secondary characters, the hints of what is to come.  It's an okay start and, I'm not giving anything away, the second book in the series is a grand-slam homerun of a book.  You don't need to read this book to enjoy the second (I didn't, until after), but it may set your mind at ease.	2003-02-19
US	53069821	R2F2KOLZZYYUGT	0316781460	960898638	Live from New York: An Uncensored History of Saturday Night Live	Books	4	1	1	N	N	History, Schmistory.  It's all Hearsay.	I was sucked into \\"Live from New York\\" within a few seconds and didn't let go until I was done.  It appears that other reviewers have mixed feeling about this book, which consists of outtakes from numerous interviews with the producers, cast and crew of \\"Saturday Night Live\\" arranged in a roughly according to theme, citing other books that do the job better, but I liked this one just fine.<br />Perhaps it's my own personal trashy streak that makes me love it so.  I love dirt.  I love behind-the-scenes action.  I love knowing the story that few people ever get to see.  There's a lot of that sort of thing here.  Dirt on guest hosts, dirt on the cast.  Who were the favorite guests?  Who were the worst?  Which cast members messed up onstage and had to be fired?  It's all here.<br />The beauty of this book, as compared to a straight history, is the fact that the editors (calling Tom Shales, and James Andrew Miller \\"authors\\" is being way too generous) do not strive for truth.  Alternate versions of each story are told by concerned parties and observers alike, so the book resembles a huge comedy-themed \\"Rashomon\\".  We may never know the truth, but it's enormous fun sifting through other people's memories.<br />One flaw I noticed was the fact that the book is fairly bottom-heavy; the early years are covered in minutes depth and detail, while the most interesting years on the show (the \\"lost years\\" of Charles Rocket, Randy Quaid, Julia Louise Dreyfuss, Anthony Michael and Janeane Garafalo) are barely touched upon.  And the current cast is noticeably silent, perhaps because the fear repercussion or reprisal.<br />If you like gossip and Saturday Night Live, this book mixes them together beautifully.	2003-02-18
US	53069821	R129XVRHVJ28KD	0553572407	671551230	Interface	Books	2	12	18	N	N	This book should be buried	Some reviewers have suggested we might see the hand of Neal Stephenson in Bury's \\"Interface\\". Almost everyone knows by know that Bury is a pseudonym of the \\"collaberation\\" between Stephenson and his uncle. But no one who as read the intensely poetic \\"Snow Crash\\" or the sardonically funny \\"Zodiac:the Eco-Thriller\\" could mistake the clunky, amateurish \\"Interface\\" for a work by Neal Stephenson. <br />The plotting, while well-paced, seems pieced together from one of those Author Help computer programs. The characters are cut completely from cardboard and hammered into upright positions with coathanger frames. Neal Stephenson at his best reminds us of the young William Gibson, etching his name with a hybrid SciFi-Adventure-Poem called Neuromancer. In a normal Stephenson book, not a paragraph goes by without causing us to shake our heads in disbelief that one book could contain so many dead-on passages. <br />\\"Stephen Bury\\" at his best recalls Stephen King when the rent is due, idly cranking out another forgettable work with precious few clever observations and fewer interesting moments. If Neal Stephenson has truly offered his uncle a hand in co-authoring this book, he must have been responsible for writing the page numbers, because I found them the most interesting part. I kept counting down the number of pages to the end.	2003-01-27
US	53069821	R1II50SPR5NG6U	044661193X	628573598	Basket Case	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Slam Dunk	I doubt there's anyone out there who hasn't heard of Carl Hiaasen yet, even though only one of his books has been made into a film.  I had seen him for years before the garish, comedic, Florida-themed book cover that was his visual trademark was coopted by the likes of Lawrence Shames and Hialeah Jackson.  These writers' publishers elected to make their books look like Hiaasen's for good reason - Hiaasens's books were gems, perfect, shiny little pieces of literature that could entertain, enlighten and captivate.<br />\\"Basket Case\\" is the latest such gem.<br />In a way, it is simplest Hiaasen book yet - Obit writer Jack Tagger discovers some funny business behind the death of James Stomarti, frontman for the fictional Jimmy and the Slut Puppies, and tries to find out who's beind it.  Whodunnit is fairly straightforward and not even really important.  This book is really about Tagger and his search for truth and comfort in a world gone dispassionate. <br />Consider the subplots.  Tagger, as an obituarian, is obsessed with death and dwells on the death dates of countless celebrities as he compares his own age to their ages at the time of death.  He is also obsessed with learning about his dead father, whom he never knew.  He is obsessed with his ex-girlfriend, whom he lost because he could not face the future, could only count down the days until his own death.  He is obsessed with true journalism while working for a corporate paper that has lost all journalistic integrity.<br />Clearly, this book is something more than a murder mystery.  It is a rumination on age and self.  It is an examination of love and expectation.  Hiaasen himself seems to be questioning age, questioning death, reflecting on his own life as a journalist.<br />But he has wrapped all this serious content into a hilarious package so we don't notice the bittersweetness until the very end.  That is a tribute to Hiaasen's skill as a comedian.  As usual in a Hiaasen novel, the characters are real, yet very, very odd, they are the kind of characters that other Florida-based writer wish they could write.<br />\\"Basket Case\\" is a wonderful book.	2003-01-22
US	53069821	R5NDAC9H05DCU	1929976054	651663449	Don't Blame the Snake (Margo Fortier)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Tony Fennelly Strikes Again!	Tony Fennelly is not merely an excellent mystery writer, but a sharp social satirist, as well.  In fact, most of \\"Don't Blame the Snake\\", the latest Margo Fortier novel, is a distillation of the zeitgeist surrounding the O. J. Simpson trial married to a comical study of mystery conventions.  The mystery itself, the identity of a murder suspect, is rarely discussed, though it hangs over the action like a dark cloud.<br />Instead of a standard whodunnit, Fennelly offers her readers something more, an examination of our own foibles and eccentricities, particularly those surrounding the dark days of the Simpson Trial.  Her characters treat the televised event like a Roman Circus, a train wreck from which we cannot look away.  It took me back, made me remember those freaky, surreal days.  That the novel is set on a cruise ship only makes the passengers' obsession with the trial funnier.<br />Setting the action among the attendees of a mystery convention was also a stroke of genius.  I got the impression Ms. Fennelly placed Margo and her husband, Julian, with the characters Fanny and Alice, two humorous and jaded midlist authors, as a way of expressing her own feelings about the world of publishers and writers.  I especially enjoyed this insider's peek into the mysterious world of writers.<br />Another aspect I enjoyed was Ms. Fennelly's concept of \\"Fictional New Orleans\\", a place where it's always Mardi Gras, the residents are always in costume and the Cajuns speak in Parisian French.  As authors setting books in Fictional New Orleans is a pet peeve of mine, I got a particular belly laugh from the exchange between Margo and Julian.  Their snide but friendly interplay is always hilarious.<br />For the sake of mystery, Margo's pal, Lt. Frank Washington, is on board as a convention presenter.  Before the cruise, Frank was investigating the death of a famous author by rattlesnake.  While aboard, a publisher is also bitten by a snake.  Coincidence?  We think not.  The best part of the mystery is that, this time, Margo isn't even TRYING to solve it.  She just makes sense of the clues before anyone else.<br />One complaint I have:  Frank Washington is friends with Margo Fortier and with Fennelly's other protagonist, Matty Sinclair, yet the subject never comes up.  Matty is New Orleans society.  Margo is a society columnist.  They MUST know one another . . . It doesn't detract from the books, but it is curious.<br />As always, a new book by Tony Fennelly is an event to be celebrated by anyone who loves a sharp tongue, witty banter, and engaging characters.  I recommend it highly and await the next installment.	2003-01-10
US	53069821	RQZIWRTB03QT0	0066214122	245555180	Prey	Books	3	11	13	N	N	Jurassic Nanoparticles	Michael Crichton has a pretty good schtick. Research a current scientific or sociological trend to death, then regurgitate it in an easily-readable novel format palatable to the lowest common denominator. He does it often and he does it well. Perhaps too well. Because it's beginning to appear as though he's doing the same thing over and over again ... <br />\\"Prey\\" is an interesting concept, concerning the efforts to develop nanotechnology. Of course, in Crichton's world, science refuses to behave; arrogant scientists push limits and the scientific subjects break loose, causing a big mess and hijinx ensue. One right-thinking scientist warns against using the new technology before it is properly tested, then saves the day with his superior knowledge and skill.<br />In \\"Prey\\", the hero is stay-at-home dad Jack Forman, a former programmer who loses his job because he finds out the CEO is morally-corrupt and tries to blow the whistle. Crichton spends pages and pages describing how Jack takes to being a house husband, changing diapers, fixing dinner, refereeing squabbles. We get the point: Jack's a Good Guy, with Capital Letters.<br />Jack's wife, Julia, works for a company that has developed a medical imaging system that uses nanotechnology to take pictures of the inside of the body. This is the company for which things go Terribly Wrong. A cloud of nanoparticles breaks loose and is terroroizing the fabrication facility deep in the Nevada desert.<br />Because Jack worked on the code that runs the particles, he's called in to save the day and this is where the book becomes \\"Jurassic Nanoparticles\\". At the facility, we are introduced to a group of people who are working on the project. Their names are not important, for they are barely-sketched characters to be used as nano-fodder for the remainder of the novel.<br />The first third of the novel was almost unreadable. Crichton attempts to get us into the head of Joe Average, having conversations about diapers and managinga household where the kids slap each other and call one another \\"Monkey Butt\\". But it appears Crichton himself is a long, long way from being an average guy. I doubt he ever shopped for diapers or picked up his own dry-cleaning, so he instead seems to have cribbed all his knowledge of family life from \\"Mr. Mom\\" and \\"E.T.\\"<br />Things DO heat up a bit when he gets to the facility in the desert. This is where Crichton shows his chops as a master story teller. His writing is still a little sloppy and choppy, but he keeps things going by building and releasing tension at a steady rate. Many questions are answered, only to raise more questions. This is what Crichton does best and it is why I still read him.<br />Plotting is a little sloppy, as well, as there are many inconsistencies throughout. People behave in odd ways, contact with the nanoparticles kills some but not others and has different affects on those it doesn't kill. But this is par for the course in a Crichton novel.<br />...\\"Prey\\" is fun, even though you've seen it all before.	2002-12-31
US	53069821	R2CYJJZZO4OF1	1555835856	123958089	Murder in the Rue Dauphine: A Mystery	Books	2	13	21	N	N	Typical First-Mystery Blues	I had read a lot of good things about \\"Murder in the Rue Dauphine\\" and was looking forward to reading it.  Perhaps that's why I'm so disappointed.  If you find something by chance and it turns out to be bad, no problem.  If you await something eagerly and it turns out not to be good, then it doubles the bad.<br />This book is bad, doubled.<br />It appears that author Greg Herren was determined not to ignore any cliche of gay fiction lest one of them gets its feelings hurt, nearly so every character is trim, works out, parties all night, and cheats on his lover.  Those who are not are homely, pathetic trolls with whom no self-respecting man would tryst.<br />Herren attempts to combine a hard-boiled style with the wisecracking of newer detectives and standard gay fiction, which doesn't work as well as you'd hope.  A lot of the exposition falls flat and the dialog is clumsy, though realistic, as though Herren had simply spent an evening in bars taking notes. When will writes learn that this doesn't work?<br />The \\"mystery\\" of the initial murder is so simplistic as to be laughable.  The deeper complications involving gay-bashing and male escorts rely far too much on coincidence than detective work.<br />New Orleans, a city that should make a fantastic backdrop for any novel, does not make an appearance.  Instead, Herren trots out a list of tourist sites.<br />Overall, I'd give it a miss.	2002-12-31
US	53069821	RINS25DYEH6DE	0441003257	624269601	Good Omens	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Nice & Fluffy	The title gets it absolutely right.  \\"Good\\" Omens.  Not stellar, not great, not even fine omens, but good ones, all packed together in this discardable little book by humor-fantasy meister Terry Pratchett and dark-fantasy meister Neil Gaiman.<br />It's a comic novel about the end of days and darned if I didn't laugh out loud.  A lot.  But the jokes were cheap and easy and didn't really showcase the talents of either of these writers.<br />Aziraphale and Crowley shine as the main characters and turn the novel into a sort of Crosby & Hope \\"Road to Armaggedon\\" kind of story.  Their appearances are the only worthy bits in the entire novel.  The rest reads as more a Three Stooges movie.<br />If this sound sappealing to you, more power to you.  Admittedly, I liked it enough to read a second time, many years after the first reading, but that was because I had finished \\"American Gods\\" and was in the mood for another dose of Gaiman that would not soon be forthcoming.  I knew what I was getting into, however, knew I would be reading a light, airy fantasy without any real meat to it, but for some reason that wasn't enough the second time around.  <br />This is a charming book to use killing an hour or two, but don't try to make a meal of it.  You'll starve to death.	2002-11-19
US	53069821	R21WBPHQ7SH3OB	0345356535	528036004	Sick of Shadows (Elizabeth MacPherson)	Books	5	41	42	N	N	Not Sick of Sharyn	While lying in bed last weekend, moaning under the weight of a killer headache, I tossed aside the book I had been reading because it required too much concentration. The constant brow-furrowing and synapse-firing was exacerbating my mal-du-tete, so I sought something lighter. Something funny. Something that wouldn't hurt my enfeebled head. <br />I found it in Sharyn McCrumb's \\"Sick of Shadows\\", a novel of characters in which the mystery is incidental. Each character is original, fun and lively, with quirks that may have seemed quirkier years ago when this book was written, but now seem as normal as any American family. The main character is Elizabeth McPherson, recent college graduate, who goes on to figure in many more of McCrumb's novels (McCrumb seems to have fallen in love with her Appalachian cycle, so Ms. McPherson's fate is uncertain, at best). <br />Her mad cousin, Eileen, is about to be married and has invited Elizabeth to be a bridesmaid. Cousin Geoffrey is a Shakespeare-spouting layabout, Cousin Alban is a history buff who built a castle on his property and Charles is a hippie physicist. McCrumb gives Elizabeth a wry matter-of-fact delivery that occasionally made me laugh out loud, and her favorite device is revealing her impressions of the family in frequent letters to her brother, Bill, who is unable to attend the wedding. The murder, when it finally happens, is shocking and sad, yet McCrumb doesn't allow it to weigh the book down with sorrow.<br />All in all, \\"Sick of Shadows\\" was just what I needed to get me through a miserable day. Of course, I was cheating, as I had read it years ago and was only now rereading it, so I knew it would be perfect, but that shouldn't steer you away from this book or the series. I plan to reread them all.	2002-09-18
US	53069821	R1XIYQIGCZS8C1	1862044724	848298020	Rex Deus: The True Mystery of Rennes-Le-Chateau and the Dynasty of Jesus	Books	3	27	31	N	Y	More Muddle on Rennes-Le-Chateau	The mystery surrounding Rennes-Le-Chateau is endlessly fascinating and has spawned innumerable books attempting to unravel the secret and explain how an impoverished country priest became a wealthy mover and shaker and spent tons of dough converting his little church into a giant puzzle box.  Most of these books are fascinating nonsense recounting a secret bloodline descended from Jesus, Templars, Masons, Rosicrucians and secret Kabalistic wisdom.  \\"Rex Deus\\" is no different.<br />The problem with this glut of books is that they have created a  bizarre feedback loop; each book takes as fact the previous books' suppositions and uses them to prove or further their own theories.  The bibliography of Rex Deus contains \\"Holy Blood, Holy Grail\\" and \\"The Sign and the Seal\\", among others, though, in true academic fashion, the authors are careful to discredit the work of the other researchers, even while using their work as research of their own.  Here the authors outline the theory of \\"Holy Blood, Holy Grail\\", then say they think it's all nonsense.  But *their* theory, that Jesus married Mary Magdalene, who escaped with Jesus' children to France after the crucifixion and founded a sacred bloodline, called \\"Rex Deus\\", is perfectly logical.<br />Different in Rex Deus is the addition of an anonymous informant named \\"Michael\\" who claims to be a member of the Rex Deus clan.  Sadly, he is unable to provide any proof of this, as the desk containing the sacred documents has gone missing.  Michael feeds the authors anything and everything they want to hear and they gleefully write it all down and present it as fact.<br />The first half of this book is fascinating, presenting the Rennes-Le-Chateau mystery, a thought-provoking interpretation of early Christianity, the formation of the Knights of the Temple and a plausible explanation for the Knights' strange behavior.  The book quickly becomes bogged down in a dull recitation of Rex Deus comings and goings, family alliances, politicsand muddled reporting, so the last half to one-third of Rex Deus is slow going.<br />Overall, though, I enjoyed reading this book.  I like conspiracy theories and unsolved mysteries, and plan to read more of the bibliography that is somehow less than the sum of its parts.	2002-09-14
US	53069821	R21JRNYNW7PL49	0671240137	638229941	Savior	Books	2	2	12	N	N	Save me from this Book!	I just finished \\"The Savior\\" by Marvin and Mark Werlin and I wish I hadn't.  Not because I wished it wouldn't end, but because I wish I'd never started.  This was an astonishingly bad novel from start to finish; reading it was as hard as breathing molasses.<br />Written during Stephen King's first arc, when every darned book title had two words and the first was \\"The\\", \\"The Savior\\" seems to have been written specifically to take advantage of the resurgence of interest in horror, but without benefit of any element even approaching scary.  Or suspenseful.  Or interesting.<br />Susan McKenzie thinks there's something odd about her infant son, Christopher, because he seems to know when she wants him to be quiet.  Later, as a young man, the boy discovers he is able to toss grown men around like rag dolls with his mind, and heal the wounded and sick with a mere touch.  With the help of Eric Wynters, a talk show host, and Charlotte, a paranormal researcher, Chris takes his show on the road, heals a bunch of people, then cracks under the strain.<br />The book jacket suggests that Chris walks in the light by day but roams a world of depraved evil at night.  Let me tell you something; if I had an evil heart and the ability to bend men's wills to my own desires, I would be one bad mammajamma.  I'd rob banks, defeat my enemies and control governments.  But all Chris can think to do is slap a few people around, rape a few women, and have drunken parties with punk bands.  At no point do we feel that anyone is in any real danger.  Believe me, people in real danger is an essential element of horror.<br />There's a reason the Werlins think small, I think.  It's because they aren't writers.  They're technicians.  Anyone can learn the elements of grammar, string words together to form sentences, tell a story from beginning to end.  It takes a craftsman to create a deft and believable plot.  It takes an artist to weave magic.  But the Werlins are neither craftsmen nor artists; they write with all the depth and subtlety of a kid filling in a paint-by-number set.	2002-09-14
US	53069821	R28OL2TN451NXN	0743406117	302105199	Year Zero	Books	3	3	6	N	N	This Book is no Zero	In 1999, Jeff Long wrote \\"The Descent\\", an entertaining novel in which he speculated that Satan is real and Hell exists beneath our very feet.  In \\"Year Zero\\", he follows up by presenting us with a living, breathing Jesus who is most probably a fake.<br />But that's only a small portion of this entertaining thriller, part adventure, part science fiction, part post-apocalyptic nightmare.  It's primarily about a two-millenia-old virus unleashed upon an unsuspecting world, and its effect and aftermath.<br />Ho hum.  Been there, done that.  It was already old news when Stephen King did it with the \\"The Stand\\" (though he did it masterfully), and was appalling when Robert R. McCammon produced the carbon copy \\"Swan Song\\".  So what else is there to say?<br />Not much, I'm afraid.  I was drawn to \\"Year Zero\\" for two reasons: the cloning element, in which the scientists on the trail of the virus clone men who may have been carriers of the original virus in order to search for antibodies, and the writing - Long had impressed me a great deal with his earlier novel.  <br />We are introduced to idealist archaeologist Nathan Lee Swift and his greedy mentor David Ochs after a devastating earthquake in Jerusalem.  Because he is married to Ochs' sister, Nathan Lee reluctantly allows himself to be induced into a looting a mass grave uncovered by the quake.  Later, Ochs frames Nathan Lee for murder, landing him in a Tibetan jail.  When the virus breaks loose, Nathan Lee risks life and limb to get back to the United States and his estranged wife and daughter.<br />It took a long time for this novel to capture me.  The opening adventure scenes were interesting enough, but nothing special, and the account of the virus's movement across the globe was no better than a hundred King imitators.  It wasn't until a scene between young scientist Miranda Abbott and Nathan lee, in which each tries to reveal enough to seduce the other without allowing himself to become too vulnerable, that I reallyfelt I was reading about real people and began to care about the outcome.<br />I was also interested in the Year Zero clones, a group of resurrected condemned men, reborn with their memories intact and no knowledge of the past 2000 years.  Author Long imagines their reactions and presents them thoughtfully and carefully.  Things go well until Ochs reappears and causes more grief for Nathan Lee and Miranda.<br />Overall, I enjoyed this book.  Certainly, it has its flaws and the author is working in a genre that has been played to death, but he manages to bring some fresh ideas and tell a good story, too.  If you're looking for a good beach book that will hold your interest and won't overtax your cranium, I can recommend \\"Year Zero\\".	2002-08-16
US	53069821	RO76N73V16241	0380728133	61850312	Bloodsucking Fiends: A Love Story	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Adventures in Sang-froid Cisco	I was planning to move back to San Francisco and I picked up \\"Bloodsucking Fiends\\" because of the SF connection.  This is the first Christopher Moore 've read, but it won't be the last. Moore pegged the City by the Bay and its peculiarities exactly and managed to tell a humorous and engaging story, to boot.<br />I particularly loved the casting of the eccentric Emperor Norton and his dogs, Bummer and Lazarus, as modern-day vampire hunters (for those who don't know, Emperor Norton was a famed SF eccentric from the 19th century.  He lost all his money, went mad and declared himself the first emperor of the United States.  Always happy to be in on the joke, San Franciscans treated him like an emperor, accepting his home-printed currency, giving him uniforms, feeding him, etc.)<br />I also liked the real feeling of the vampirism - the reactions of the new vamp, Jody, to being turned are hilarious.  C.Thomas Flood, grocery store night manager, is less interesting, almost forced in his wackiness.<br />I like this book and, from the reactions I've seen on Amazon, Moore manages to keep it up in later books.	2002-08-14
US	53069821	R2LZZ3TPNJSRMD	1930235135	452869327	Homunculus	Books	2	17	37	N	N	Horribilus	&quot;Homonculus&quot; is Blaylock's unhappy attempt to maintain apace with his friends Tim Powers and K.W. Jeter, at a time when each was writing a pastiche set in a London of the 19th century.  Jeter produced the amusing and strange &quot;Infernal Devices&quot;, Powers wrote the now-legendary and award-winning &quot;Anubis Gates&quot; and Blaylock, well, Blaylock wrote this mess.<br />James Blaylock seems to suffer from the worst kind of Chris Columbus fantasy imaginings.  Plot slowing down?  Throw in a big, anachronistic machine!  Don't waste time with character development, just dress 'em up and make 'em talk funny.  That'll do it.<br />Overall, Blaylock seems unable to rise above mediocrity.	2002-08-09
US	53069821	R3S5VMR64WSKBR	0380977788	425362981	Coraline	Books	3	5	14	N	Y	Entertaining, but Fluffy	\\"Coraline\\", by Neil Gaiman, is a children's book in the tradition of \\"Alice's Adventures in Wonderland\\", \\"The Phantom Tollbooth\\" and \\"The Chronicles of Narnia\\", in that the main character passes through a portal into a strange and wonderful world, has some adventures and comes back a wiser individual.<br />So why bother writing it again?<br />Gaiman has populated Coraline's world with two exasperated and inattentive parents, whose neglect seems to border on child abuse, two sad, mad old women who once were actresses (who are also inattentive and dismissive) and an old man who claims to be training mice to play musical instruments.  In all, it's easy to see why the poor dear would be depressed and bored and so open to the possibility of exploring the mysterious world beyond the bricked-up doorway she finds.<br />On the other side are mirror images of all the people who live in Coraline's flat, weird images with paper white skin and buttons for eyes, as well as a talking cat who aids her.  The \\"other mother' wants Coraline to stay forever and kidnaps Coraline's real parent's in order to coerce her.  Instead, Coraline musters her courage and saves the day, her parents, and three dead children whose ghosts were locked in an old closet, having been captured by the evil critter decades before.<br />I appreciate Gaiman's attempt at updating the concept, making the story a little darker and the protagonist a little more resourceful, but the gothic elements didn't really work for me, as they seemed too forced, to dark for dark's sake.  Overall, I was entertained, I enjoyed the book, but I was not mesmerized.  I was not dragged in, as I was with Charlie and his adventures in the Chocolate Factory or the Great Glass Elevator, or Alice, or Milo.<br />I realize that today's readers may not have read the old standards, so the similarities to Roald Dahl, Norton Juster, Lewis Carroll, et al.,may not seem so obvious and distracting to them.  Perhaps it's better left as a book for children.	2002-08-02
US	53069821	R3OOZ4345L548K	0743204840	843105206	Jolie Blon's Bounce: A Novel	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Another Robicheaux Again	I used to look forward to the next Dave Robicheaux book like I looked forward to Christmas when I was a child.  I used to feel the same anticipation, the same thrill I would feel upon waking too early to go into the living room to see what Santa had brought.  I would buy the new James Lee Burke novel and rush to get it home, sneaking looks at the dust jacket, reading the first few pages while waiting in line to get on the bus and finally arriving home to immerse myself.  They were wonderful, yes, well-written and poetic, with a dark, malevolent beauty hiding beneath the rot and detritus of the swamps and rural backwaters, but they were more than that.  They were like mini-trips to Louisiana for me, a place I love and visit whenever I can.  And they were a new treat from a favorite author, something that was new to me, as many of the writers I discovered in my youth were long dead and would be producing no more books.<br />These days, a new Dave Robicheaux novel is like a phone call from a distant aunt.  It's nice to hear from her, but she keeps telling the same old stories over and over again and you wind up preferring that maybe the calls were less frequent, or of shorter duration.  \\"Jolie Blon's Bounce\\" is like that.  It's still Burke and it's still welcome, but you've heard all the stories, read all the lovely descriptions, wondered about the vaguely supernatural elements, thrilled at Dave's headstrong determination to do exactly the most self-destructive thing at any given moment, despite what his family, friends and colleagues tell him.  There's nothing new.<br />The story is about a poor black person accused of a crime and the rich white people who have a dark secret and may actually be the criminals.  No, wait.  That's ALL of them.  Let's try it again...<br />\\"Jolie Blon's Bounce\\" finds Dave investigating the murders of a young, white, teenaged girl and of a prostitute, the daughter of a New Orleans gangster.  Everyone figures local hophead and musician Tee Bobby Hulin as the murderer; everyone except Dave, who wants so much to believe in the boy's innocence that he follows a few unorthodox leads.<br />Along the way he encounters Legion Guidry, a former plantation manager who may or may not be the demon Legion from the Bible, a man who violates and twists his way through New Iberia like a thread of mold.  He threatens, bullies, beats and kills any number of people before turning his charms on Dave himself, who nearly does not come away from the encounter intact.<br />Throw in Clete Purcell, Dave's old partner, the Private Investigator daughter of another mobster, a malevolent Bible salesman, the prostitute's grieving father, the local police, and Dave's curiously bitchy family and you have a nice, murky roux, full of red herrings, macguffins and dead ends.<br />As usual, Dave sews it all up in his unique, ethically challenged way.  But what has begun to strike me about these books is how surly and dislikeable is the lead character.  Dave barely communicates his thoughts to anyone, is rude and disrespectful to people he doesn't like and is merely grumpy and hostile to people he loves.  He pontificates to those close to him, all the while dipping his toe in the same toxic water from which he warns them.  With each new book I wonder why his wife Bootsie hasn't filed for divorce - they only seem to have sex when she's mad at Dave and they don't talk or show affection any other time.  Dave's daughter, Alafair, once a cool character, has grown into a charmless teenager who finds every reason to pick a fight and no reason to show us, the reader, what a great guy Dave is under the surface.  If you liked the other books in the series, you are bound to like this one, but be warned: the books are getting darker and I'm not sure even Dave can see the light anymore.	2002-08-01
US	53069821	R26KBH9BZUUHUC	0312977182	968750330	Leavin' Trunk Blues (Nick Travers)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Beautiful Blues Mystery	In \\"Crossroad Blues\\", Ace Atkins examined the legend and music of Robert Johnson, essentially taking a real man and making him fictional.  In \\"Leavin' Trunk Blues\\", Atkins, casts blues myth Stagger Lee as a character, essentially taking a fictional man and making him real.<br />Stagger Lee is the name of a number of blues and jazz standards about a tough Chicago man who gambles with, then murders, a fellow named Billy (usually Lyons).  The stories are always the same, though a number of different artists, from Lloyd Price to Wilson Pickett, from the Grateful Dead to Nick Cave, have taken ownership of the song by switching around events, tempos, names, details.  But the centerpiece is still the evil, dangerous, magnetic Stagger Lee.<br />In Ace Atkins' version, Stagger Lee is all the evil in Chicago's south side rolled into a single man, and Billy Lyons was the manager of a female blues artist, Ruby Walker, known as \\"the Sweet Black Angel\\".  When Billy turned up dead, the Black Angel was accused of his murder and went to prison for life.<br />Enter Nick Travers, blues historian, amateur detective and old softy.  When Ruby asks Nick to help her find out who killed Billy and get her out of jail, Nick jumps right in, meeting famous blues musicians, beautiful, knife-wielding assassins and Stagger Lee himself, taking time along the way to take a dig at that little blond kid who thinks he plays the blues but isn't old enough to know what they are.<br />Ace Atkins writes well.  He's toned down a lot of the purple prose that marred \\"Crossroad Blues\\" and here concentrates on good, solid description and storytelling.  His evocation of the blues, the life, the players, are all spot on and he makes you feel the desperation in the hearts of the people who migrated to Chicago in order to find a better life, only to find the projects and poverty.  He makes you want to listen to every name that he drops.  When he's good, he's very, very good.<br />But his hold on good is a little spotty.  Atkins depends too heavily on internal monologue, too often writing in sentence fragments that he seems thinks make sense and allow the reader into the mind of the character.  They don't.  Instead, they seem like the author was too lazy to finish his sentences and the editor was too lazy to correct him.<br />The two female assassins, who could have been the most interesting characters, are written as comedy relief, with Annie carrying on a love affair with her butcher knife \\"Willie\\" and fantasizing about moving to Riverdale, home of Archie & pals.  Petie Wheatstraw, a blues hanger-on is also written a little on the cartoon-ey side.  And I find it hard, even when suspending disbelief, to accept that the police can't find and catch the \\"biggest black man [Nick] had ever seen\\", Stagger Lee, especially when he commits murders in broad daylight and everyone knows where he lives.  Large parts of this book could not have happened if the laws of logic had not been repealed.<br />That said, Nick himself is a fine character, written with the right touch of vulnerability and strength, music geek knowledge and girl stupidity.  His amour, Kate, is brash and smart, with just the right amount of softness.  And Dirty Jimmy is one of the most fun characters I've come across in a while.<br />Atkins' mysteries won't win any awards for originality and they won't knock your socks off as literature.  But they are a wonderful way to pass some hours and learn about old blues while being entertained.	2002-08-01
US	53069821	R1Q7ZDP3MDMC1U	0135694507	644241859	The Art of Software Support	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Support from the Ground Up	For all the importance of Call Centers, Help Desks and Support Networks, not much attention is given them in industry literature.  It's almost as though these functions are an afterthought, as though the first support call might come in and someone would say, &quot;Oh, yeah.  We need someone to answer these, don't we?&quot;<br />This book is the first I've seen that looks at the building of a Support Center from the ground up, from budgeting to staffing, to training and retention, support software to development and dissemination of updates.  It does so logically, step by step, providing sound reasoning and justification on each page, even to the point of including a complex and reasonable metric for determining staffing levels.<br />I thought Tourniaire and Farrell fell somewhat short of giving the Support field a complete analysis, concentrating as they do on larger call centers rather than giving weight to the whole spectrum of support providers, like Internal Help Desks or smaller tech centers.  Their initial thesis, on the Front Line/Back Line vs. One Hand models of support, is sound, but limited, giving no attention to the possible hybrids or any other models of support center.  On the other hand, their description of the call completion cycle is thorough and unlike any I've seen.  I also like the idea of writing a  &quot;Support Agreement&quot; for one's clients, so everyone knows up front what is and is not covered.<br />Overall, this is a very fine book and I would recommend it to Support professionals, especially to anyone just starting a new Call Center.  Better to have all the info to start than to try and switch focus after ramping up.	2002-07-31
US	53069821	R3JH7AG5GELR8Y	0595223583	774200165	19 1/2 Revelations	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Fun & Silly	Frank Fox, the talented author of \\"Funky Butt Blues\\" and \\"Bizarre New Orleans\\" has done it again with this high-energy romp through New Orleans as seen through the eyes of two, er, \\"twin\\" brothers from a small country community.<br />Although this slim volume isn't packaged as a mystery, it's hard to write about it without it seeming mysterious, as much of the action is propelled by questions waiting to be answered: \\"Who are these fellows?\\", \\"Why do they behave so oddly?\\", \\"If they're brothers, why are they so very different?\\"  There are answers and they are mysterious, but that's not all this book is about.<br />What is it about, you ask?  Well, it's about identity.  It's about the little vortex of oddness that goes by the name \\"New Orleans\\".  It's about tourism, gentrification, petty theft and Mardi Gras.  It's about accepting who you are, even if who you are isn't what you expected.<br />The book is described here as being in the spirit of \\"A Confederacy of Dunces\\", an assessment with which I agree, as both are fun and tragic comedic tales of fish out of water, trying to survive in a world that makes no sense.<br />\\"19 1/2 Revelations\\" opens with Moto arriving in New Orleans and applying for a job at the public library (all the while ruminating on sloths), pursued by his brother Abe.  Both are in the city looking for the truth about \\"the clipping\\", a newspaper article concerning UFOs and a discarded baby.  Hijinx ensue and the two are soon joined by Roberto, a local businessman who drives them around town.<br />Fox's writing is light and breezy, making this an easy read and suiting the tale beautifully.  It's obvious he's a resident by the locations he chooses and by the fact that, as in \\"Funky Butt Blues\\", he uses his fiction to grouse about local eyesores, such as the casino and the SuperDome.  The only thing I didn't like was the character Roberto, who seemed a little too \\"Deus ex Machina\\" for my tastes, always arriving just in time to feed the brothers, drivethem around, fix their car, etc.  But it's a small complaint and a forgivable one.	2002-07-23
US	53069821	R1C5WS1SDFJKIW	0743418921	368820126	Spike and Dru: Pretty Maids All in a Row (Buffy the Vampire Slayer)	Books	2	4	9	N	N	"Pretty Maids" ain't Pretty	Christopher Golden's \\"Spike & Dru: Pretty Maids All in a Row\\" is not a good book; let's get that out of the way up front. Now, not being good as a novel doesn't mean that a book can't be entertaining, but that, sadly, is not the case here. <br />Wait. Was that a quadruple negative? Let me clear it up; Christopher Golden's \\"Spike & Dru: Pretty Maids All in a Row\\" is not entertaining. It's basically an experiment in synergy by the Buffy machine, starring the one character who is arguably more popular than Buffy herself, Spike, and his paramour, Drusilla.<br />Golden selected an interesting setting, Europe at the height of World War II, as a way of introducing a Slayer that Spike could kill with impugnity and giving us some insight to a time when Spike was not the neutered wimp he is in the current series.<br />Rather than further our understanding of Spike the character, Golden further muddies the waters here by his unimaginative efforts, blatant mistakes and plotline missteps. But before I come down on Golden, I should point out that ANY effort to translate Buffy to written form is an exercise in folly. What works well on the small screen often comes off silly and trite on the stark page - like frost giants, demons and, yes, even vampires and Slayers. The inherent errors are merely compounded by Golden's comic-book prose.<br />A book based on a popular television series should try to break out of it's frame. Expand the universe, as it were, or at least explain further. If not, why bother writing it at all? I can hear you muttering, \\"Money, dear boy, money.\\", but that's not good enough for me. <br />Here, Golden completely destroys the Slayer universe by introducing a logical conundrum in the persons of the war-era Slayers and the \\"Slayers in Waiting\\" - girls who are training to be Slayers should the current one misstep. If, then, there is only one slayer and she happens to be based in Stockholm, Sweden, then the vampires of the world are free to multiply elsewhere, at will. If the Watcher Council orders her elsewhere, then the vamps in Stockholm now take a breather and begin multiplying like fleas, unimpeded. It's a dumb system and one that Golden should never have run with - exposing it to the light of day only weakens it.<br />Spike and Dru are rendered fairly faithfully, which only underscores how goofy they are as characters. Why do vampires need to have sex? They don't have blood in order to make the parts work, right? Why does Spike smoke? Golden tells the reader repeatedly that vampires don't use their lungs. Why do they speak such wretched dialog? Why would Spike speak like a 21st century man instead of a 40's Brit? And if he feels a jolt of patriotic pride when the Germans attack Great Britain, why would he create a German vampire submarine crew?<br />There is no real plot - Spike wants to get Freya's Strand, Scrymer the demon wants him to perform a task before he'll give it up. The task, kill all the Slayrs in Waiting, causes Spike & Dru to trot the globe with reckless abandon, killing young girls and their mentors in ever-more-grisly ways. After a few, it becomes neither shocking nor interesting, except possibly to preteens without enough gore in their lives.<br />Pet peeve: Golden introduces a Slayer in Waiting from Louisiana, who refers to Sophie, the current Slayer, as \\"y'all.\\" No one from the South would refer to a single person as \\"y'all\\" - \\"y'all\\" is plural.<br />This book was a quick read, but not quick enough.	2002-07-18
US	53069821	R1BVX2W5R2LNVS	1568582110	551477850	Brown Harvest	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Fallen , fallen is Brown the Great.	What goes up must come down, the saying goes, and Jay Russell has imagined a world in which all our childhood heroes  have done just that, not simply reaching Earth, but bypassing it and sinking more deeply into the mire than I would have thought possible.<br />Deconstructionism and continuation have been a part of literature, almost as long as there has been literature.  New authors with new ideas use the ideas, words and characters of old authors in order to illuminate the present or make some other kind of statement.  Witness \\"The New Testament\\", \\"The Wide Sargasso Sea\\", \\"The Wind Done Gone\\", \\"Paradise Lost\\" or any Sherlock Holmes pastiche to see what I mean.  Sometimes these attempts are profound; mostly they are dull and add nothing.  Then there's \\"Brown Harvest\\", which is both a tongue-in-cheek update to Hammet's \\"Red Harvest\\" and a continuation of the stories of nearly every child detective you ever read.  Ch*rry Ames is here, as are D*nny Dunne, J*piter Jones and the H*ppy H*llisters.  The H*rdy Boys are major characters.  So are B*gs Meany and Curious Ge*rge.  But the story truly belongs to the smartest kid in Id(e)aville, *ncycl*p*d** Br*wn.<br />Yes, I've hidden the identities of these characters, just as Russell did, to protect their memories.  In Russell's mean streets, nothing good ever happens to a fictional character when he grows up.  These once-pure literary entities are now alcoholics, drug-addicts, prostitutes, wastrels, murderers, crooks and sodomites.  If you loved these characters, then learning how they turned out will break your heart.<br />Fortunately, this is only one possible ending for these kids and I'd like to think that other books, as yet unwritten, hold a brighter future for them.  But that's another matter entirely.<br />The story looesly follows its hard-boiled inspiration, \\"Red Harvest\\", in that a lone man enters a town gone wild, run by three opposing gangs (in this case, violent software companies).  Each gang hires the loner who, in turn, begins turning the gangs against one another in order to force them to wipe the others out.  The goal is to gain revenge and be the last man standing.<br />Jay Russell is a sly and unflinching reporter, able to bring both humor and pathos to nearly every paragraph.  I did find myself laughing out loud and relating the plot or dialog to my friends (most of whom never read the originals, sadly).  But on nearly every page I also felt a piece of my childhood die when I saw what Russell had done to my beloved childhood friends.  This is not a book for sentimentalists or the faint of heart.<BR>But if you can stomach it, this is a hell of an entertaining book, one that will keep you reading, keep you guessing, keeping you rummaging through the attic to retrieve those relics of the past and read them again, to assure yourself they are still as they were.  <br />And if you get a chance, read Jay Russell's \\"Marty Burns\\" series.  This book led me in that direction and I'm now a huge fan.	2002-07-16
US	53069821	R1CJOKNE0SD3E9	0670030643	89209679	The Eyre Affair	Books	3	65	90	N	N	The Eyre Unfair	Argh.  Argh.  Argh.<br />That's the sound of a man who wanted desperately to like a book being bitterly disappointed.  \\"The Eyre Affair\\" is a novel with what sounds like an interesting premise, but winds up reading like the bastard love-child of Woody Allen and Douglas Adams.<br />Of course, my disappointment is largely my own fault.  I was sucked in by the jacket copy that sort of promised a romp through Jane Eyre in a world where people could enter works of fiction.  For some reason I didn't stop to consider how patently ridiculous that idea is and how bad previous attempts at doing the same thing have been.  Woody Allen tried it twice, once in a short piece and again in \\"Purple Rose of Cairo\\", and neither was particularly successful, so I don't know why I thought Fforde would be able to do any better.<br />Actually, I do.  It was the protagonist's name: Thursday Next.  To come up with a name like that, I thought he must be a genius.<br />What the jacket does not tell us is that a large portion of the plot hinges on time travel and huge, gaping paradoxes, a la Dirk Gently.  Not that I mind such things, I just didn't expect them, and expecting them would have allowed me to suspend that particular logic detection system.<br />But these quibbles aside, there was a lot to like about \\"The Eyre Affair\\".  I liked the smug feeling I got from \\"getting\\" most of the English Literature references sprinkled throughout.  I liked Thursday's dotty old uncle, an inventor who accidentally merengued one of his assistants to death.  I liked the idea of a world that treats Shakespeare's Richard III as a \\"Rocky Horror\\" costume fest.<br />Jasper Fforde's storytelling skills are breezy and fun, and he doesn't get too caught up in the cuteness of his own jokes; in fact, some of them are so subtle they hit you a few pages later.  The characters are mostly interchangeable, with the exceptions of Thursday's dad, the chronoguardsman, Thursday herself, and Acheron Hades, the villain.<br />Hades deserves some attention here.  He almost works as a bad guy, just for the sheer joy he gets from being a bad guy.  But if this were a cartoon, he would be constantly turning to the camera and grinning, saying, \\"Ain't I evil?\\", or something equally obvious.  This gets old fast and Fforde would do well to arrest it in later installments.  Also, we are offered no proper explanation for Hades' powers, which include invisibility and the ability to pass through solid matter.  Cool tricks, but the laws of fiction demand we know why he has these powers when no one else does.<br />I'm not sorry I read this and I wouldn't try to steer you away from it.  But I do think you should have your Disbelief switch in the \\"Suspend\\" position when you start it.  If you can get past the plot holes, you're in for a terrific ride.	2002-06-26
US	53069821	R10PDFQYOZW6WM	0312971923	779605463	Crossroad Blues (Nick Travers)	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	"Crossroad Blues": A Hell of a Book	All the reviews I've read of \\"Crossroad Blues\\" have been positive, and this one will be no different. Ace Atkins uses the death of enigmatic bluesman Robert Johnson's death as a starting point for \\"Crossroad Blues\\", a mystery starring Nick Travers (whose name, Atkins thoughtfully points out in a pre-novel note, means \\"dweller at a crossroads\\"), a former New Orleans Saint who is now a semi-drunk teacher and musician. When one of Travers' colleagues disappears while researching a set of nine mythical recordings possible laid down by Johnson, Travers tries to track him down, only to become embroiled in a search for the recordings and the answer to Johnson's untimely murder. <br />Here's the lowdown: Robert Johnson recorded only 29 songs in his life. While he lived, he cultivated rumors about himself that suggested he had earned his musical skill by trading guitars with the devil. He died in 1938 under mysterious circumstances (various rumors had it he was either stabbed or poisoned). <br />It's a credit to Atkins' skill as a storyteller that his fictional characters blend seamlessly into the blues mythology. His retelling of Johnson's life made me wish I had grown up black and impoverished in the 30's. The mystery was, if implausible, engaging and entertaining. <br />I'm a sucker for stories of this type - found manuscripts, new recordings of old musicians, old paintings found under repaintings - so the story kept me going. But the novel did not hit the high point I was expecting from previous raves. Instead of simply telling his story, Atkins at times tries too hard for literary strokes, producing these clunkers: <br />\\"Daniel Rose's dusty Oldsmobile was parked next to a mound of rich upchurned soil that resembled a spilled chocolate ice-cream scoop.\\" <br />\\"Looked like Superman's badassed twin from the Bizarro Planet.\\" <br />\\"Dawn broke over Jesse Garon's head like a spilled blue milkshake.\\" <br />This book would have benefited from a few well-placed commas. Most ofTravers' internal dialog is written in sentence fragments, a device I find tiresome. Most of the fragments would have fit neatly onto the preceding sentence, but Atkins' insistence on maintaining a \\"realistic\\" internal voice apparently prevents him from obeying the rules of grammar. <br />A few reviewers have mentioned the character Jesse Garon, the hitman who looks like a young Elvis (\\"The one from the postage stamp,\\" says another character), as one of the more intriguing villains to come along in a while. Frankly, I thought Sarah Shankman wrote him better in \\"The King is Dead\\". Yep. That's right. Someone else wrote an Elvis-obsessed killer who may or may not be Elvis' lost twin brother Jesse Garon fully five years before this novel (in reality, Jesse died at birth). <br />Overall, this was a remarkable book, notable for its knowledge of the early greats and for the creation of a likeable anti-hero. I look forward to reading Ace Atkins' next Nick Travers book.	2002-06-24
US	53069821	R1P26OWH1A6FHX	0151004498	30962648	The Graveyard Game	Books	4	3	4	N	N	The Baker Game	Oh, golly.<br />If the Dr. Zeus series were a watch, with the denouement sitting at 12:00 midnight, &quot;The Graveyard Game&quot; would tick us forward to one minute prior to climax, then stop.<br />We would tap the crystal.  We would hold it to our ear to see whether it was still ticking.<br />We would howl our misfortune when we realize that the watch has truly stopped without revealing the true nature of the company and the mysterious 2355 date that figures so strongly in the lives of the immortal cyborgs.<br />&quot;The Graveyard Game&quot; is a fascinating book, a much more accomplished and purposeful book than &quot;Mendoza in Hollywood&quot;, but it is not the end of the story.  I viewed &quot;Mendoza in Hollywood&quot; with a sense of good humor because it felt as though author Baker was slowing down, taking her time, teasing us a little so that this book would feel all the more momentous.  Now that I realize it really was just filler, I feel a little more let down, a little more on the hook.<br />But that doesn't mean this is not an enjoyable story.  We get to know Joseph, who is Mendoza's cyborg &quot;father&quot;, and Lewis, who loves her deeply, as they take their time and try to unravel the mystery of her disappearance.  Lewis' extended attempts at writing a novel using a photograph of the secret agent who tried to run away with Mendiza are telling, poignant and funny.  Joseph's single-mindedness in tracking Mendoza down is intense and touching.<br />Baker's writing is clever, as always.  In every Company novel, she comes up with at least one idea that makes you think, &quot;Huh.  Why didn't I think of that?&quot;  And her facility in writing a book about a character who does not actually appear would make Samuel Beckett blush with envy.<br />If you are the type of person who tears their hair out at cliffhangers, you might want to wait for the next book before starting this one.  But if you read it anyway, don't say I didn't warn you.	2002-06-18
US	53069821	RESUGDNACMXIK	0060007192	846890982	Lemony Snicket: The Unauthorized Autobiography	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Lemony Snicket: The Unauthorized Review	When I bought this book I knew I wasn't going to get an actual biography, a word which here means, \\"a book containing all the facts regarding a person's life\\", so the fact that it contains nothing resembling an actual biography didn't distress me.  I had no expectations.<br />Like most readers, I am right-handed, so what I discovered was a wonderful addition to the ongoing saga of the Baudelaire orphans, one that confirms that there is, indeed, a conspiracy, yet tells us absolutely nothing about what that conspiracy may entail.<BR> <BR>Despite the lack of concrete evidence, we become more entangled in the world of the Baudelaires and their chronicler; we become intimately acquainted with O and his henchmen; we learn just a smidge more about the seemingly peripheral characters who are more than what they seem.  For me, that was worth the price of admission.  In fact, I'd have bought the book just for the dustjacket alone.<br />I appreciated the Bantockian inclusion of documents, notes, transcripts, pictures and burn-holes that made \\"Lemony Snicket: The Unauthorized Autobiography\\" an interactive, if confusing, adventure.	2002-06-18
US	53069821	R37A6AGYJY5IS0	076453162X	446244581	UNIX? System Administrator's Bible	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	GoodResource for the Man Who Knows Nothing	\\"The Unix Bible\\" might be overstating the case a little.  One tends to think about \\"bibles\\" as definitive sources of information on a given subject (but now that I think of it, that can't be true.  Other wise, \\"The Holy Bible\\" would be the definitive source of all things Holy and people are still fighting over what should be included in it).  <br />Nonetheless, this is an ideal resource for beginners who don't know one flavor of Unix from another.  It's an easy read, a decent overview and will fill your head with enopugh Unix data to fake an interview.	2002-06-05
US	53069821	R11KHBX9R4HCZH	0971063214	581841716	New Orleans Nocturne	Books	2	4	4	N	N	Secrets in the Big Easy	New Orleans Nocturne by Jillian McCade is a new entry in the ever-growing list of New Orleans-based mysteries, one that is sure to be of interest to fans of soap operas and catty fem-fiction a la Danielle Steele.  It's a novel of secrets.  It's a novel of murder.  But mostly, it's a novel of endless lunch dates and soirees with our society friends and the token man of questionable sexuality.<br />Narrated by Julia Grant, a newcomer to the French Quarter scene, the novel unfolds like a confessional.  Julia addresses the reader as though she were sitting across from her, relating the novel's events as though in an excited whisper, detailing past crimes, guilty consciences and extramarital affairs galore.<BR>Julia settles into her new life quickly, being accepted by local society due to the fact that she is able to do a kindness to one of the inner circle at a restaurant.  All goes awry, however, when two new characters appear on the scene - Cain Degnan and Katherine Lincoln -one intent on forcing Julia out of the circle and the other bent on protecting her at any cost.<br />Author McCade's prose is unpolished, but promising.  Throughout, she commits the new writer's error of having each character speaking say the name of the character she is addressing in nearly every paragraph, as though the reader might forget who is speaking and to whom the comment is addressed.  McCade must learn to trust her readers more.<br />Another glaring problem is McCade's lack of differentiation between description and dialog.  Only an insufferable drama queen might describe her sister's suicide in highly descriptive language, detailing the way her body swung lightly in the breeze, but even the milder characters should be fined by the adjective police.<br />My final observation is that the \\"surprise\\" ending is so coincidental as to be amusing rather than shocking or revealing.<BR>Overall, this was an entertaining book and a good introduction to the New Orleans scene.  McCade obviously haslived in the areas about which she writes and her enthusiasm is infectious.<BR> <BR>I'd read another of her books any time.	2002-06-05
US	53069821	R1QBHGKPQV2KX0	038072846X	840982049	Last Call	Books	5	10	12	N	Y	A Monument to Imagination	\\"Last Call\\" is a book about loss, death, redemption, tarot cards and the Fisher King.  It plays out in a vast and mythical Las Vegas that only marginally resembles the one that sits in the Nevada desert.  <br />Scott Crane is a man who loses.  As a child, he lost an eye.  As a young man, he lost his soul in a card game.  As an adult, is wife dies and he loses his will to survive.  Until he is drawn to Las Vegas, where the last Fisher King died, and learns his is one of four Jacks vying for the right to assume the King's place.<br />It sounds wacky and ridiculous and I'm sure it would fall flat in any hands but those of Tim Powers.  But Powers is a master of Urban Magic, at finding mystery in the oridinary and in drawing conclusions from history that might only be inferred by a madman.  But once he has cast his eye on a subject and explained it to us, it all makes sense.  We wonder why we never saw it before.<br />In typical fashion, Powers has selected Eliot's \\"The Waste Land\\" as a sort of working illustration of the story, writing elements that make you stop and think \\"Oh, ho!  Eliot was in on it, too!\\".  Powers uses the poem to good effect, as he has with the Romantic poets in \\"The Stress of Her Regard\\" and other works.<br />I don't get excited about many books or many authors, but this is one of the best.  Powers is an amazing talent, always satisfying, always fresh and always jaw-droppingly unique.	2002-05-13
US	53069821	R2QVXK6VC0JI22	0345443020	981903971	Perdido Street Station (Bas-Lag)	Books	2	84	104	N	N	Perdido Street: Terminal	I'm often surprised at how often I find myself on the other side of popular opinion. If I hear enough good things about a book or a movie or a CD, I will try to experience it with positive expectation. I hope to like it. I want to like it. But too often, it seems, I am the only person who walks away feeling cheated, like the artist has simply played a colossal joke on me and used public opinion to lure me into a trap.<br />Or maybe I'm just paranoid.<br />Whichever it is, I have fallen prey to the lure of China Mieville's \\"Perdido Street Station\\". I even helped trap myself, having read the author's \\"King Rat\\" and loved it. But Perdido Street is an exploration without discovery, hype without a product, a whack-arsed fantasy for non-linear thinkers.<br />Neither of the main characters' stories intrigued me in the slightest, not that of Isaac, who is tasked with returning flight to an angelic birdman whose wings have been torn from his body, not Lin's story, of an insect-headed artist pressed into sculpting the likeness of a crime-boss.<br />As much as Mieville tries to instill the story with meaning and depth, I was still left wondering what it was all about and why I should care. And to add insult, the author has abandoned the beautiful language of \\"King Rat\\" and taken a contemporary tone.<br />This book is too long, too much weirdness for weirdness' sake, too forced.	2002-05-13
US	53069821	R21K3S6GXYO2TV	1560252537	482154695	Fetish: Masterpieces of Erotic Fantasy Photography	Books	4	9	14	N	Y	Masterpieces of Theater	I have no experience with erotic or fetish photography, so I cannot review this book from a learned perspective.  But, as the old saw goes, I know what I like.  And I liked this book.<br />The contents were a nice capture of shadow and light, a somber eye cast on what could have been alarming or lurid and making it instead something lovely.  Certainly there was plenty here to titillate rather than elevate, but that's no reason to throw out the entire batch.	2002-05-13
US	53069821	R3QMSW3PL1QEA	0151005346	180344806	The Nautical Chart	Books	3	27	30	N	N	Good book?  Poor translation?	Someone once said of Peter DeVries, \\"I love his book.  I read it every time he writes it.\\"  Arturo Perez-Reverte has cemented his claim to such backhanded praise with this release, \\"The Nautical Chart\\".  <br />This book follows the standard Perez-Reverte formula, one that became almost tiresome after \\"The Flanders Panel\\" was released.  <br />Here we are offered Coy, a down-on-his-luck sailor with barely enough knowledge to get the job done, a man who thinks and acts with his fists as opposed to his wits, Tanger Soto, a single-minded femme fatale who echoes Hammett's Bridget O'Shaughnessy (from \\"The Maltese Falcon\\", which this book references and echoes)and a pair of villains as cruel and unlikely as Gutman and Joel Cairo.  The group are all in search of a vast treasure buried beneath the sea centuries ago.  That's pretty much all there is to the story.<br />It's not the repeat of the old formula that bothers me so, rather it is the change in writing style that seems to have sucked the joy out of my reading of Perez-Reverte, and I don't know whether to blame this on the author or his translater.  Former translator Sonia Soto had a flair for language and helped ease The Club Dumas and The Flanders Panel into the American consciousness by imbuing these books with a fluid formality that seemed just right for the content.  New translator Margaret Sayers Peden has a wooden ear, seemingly translating some sections exactly as written (which makes them seem odd and flat to an English speaker) and others by trying to inject modern slang and make the book sound more contemporary.  <br />It is a fact that, unless we read the original language, we are at the mercy of the translator when reading foreign literature.  A good one can make the work sing and a bad one will make it squawk.  Sadly, without a strong, fresh framework from Perez-Reverte, this translation merely squawks.	2002-05-13
US	53069821	R2Q11TRV35JR7R	0151005346	180344806	The Nautical Chart	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Good book?  Poor translation?	Someone once said of Peter DeVries, \\"I love his book. I read it every time he writes it.\\" Arturo Perez-Reverte has cemented his claim to such backhanded praise with this release, \\"The Nautical Chart\\". <br />This book follows the standard Perez-Reverte formula, one that became almost tiresome after \\"The Flanders Panel\\" was released. <br />Here we are offered Coy, a down-on-his-luck sailor with barely enough knowledge to get the job done, a man who thinks and acts with his fists as opposed to his wits, Tanger Soto, a single-minded femme fatale who echoes Hammett's Bridget O'Shaughnessy (from \\"The Maltese Falcon\\", which this book references and echoes) and a pair of villains as cruel and unlikely as Gutman and Joel Cairo. These separate elements as all in search of a vast treasure buried beneath the sea centuries ago. That's pretty much all there is to the story. <br />It's not the repeat of the old formula that bothers me so, rather it is the change in writing style that seems to have sucked the joy out of my reading of Perez-Reverte, and I don't know whether to blame this on the author or his translater. Former translator Sonia Soto had a flair for language and helped ease The Club Dumas and The Flanders Panel into the American consciousness by imbuing these books with a fluid formality that seemed just right for the content. New translator Margaret Sayers Peden has a wooden ear, seemingly translating some sections exactly as written (which makes them seem odd and flat to an English speaker) and others by trying to inject modern slang and make the book sound more contemporary. <br />It is a fact that, unless we read the original language, we are at the mercy of the translator when reading foreign literature. A good one can make the work sing and a bad one will make it squawk. Sadly, without a strong, fresh framework from Perez-Reverte, this translation merely squawks.	2002-05-13
US	53069821	R1GJOLHJZFW8PP	188517327X	397195079	The Lafitte Case: A Historical Mystery	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Go Ahead - Crack "The Case"	\\"The Lafitte Case\\", by Ray Peters, is a strange hybrid of action and exposition, woven almost randomly into something resembling a novel.  But it isn't.  Not quite.<br />It is the story of both Jean Lafitte, the famous pirate of New Orleans history and legend, and Edward Livingston, a lonely and desperate attorney in modern New Orleans.  The majority of the action concerns Livingston's attempts to prove before the Jean Lafitte Society that Lafitte was actually two men pretending to be one and that naval hero John Paul Jones is buried in a bayou in Louisiana.  The exposition portions consist of Edward sitting in his living room and telling his nephew Mickey the story of his many visits to the Society.<br />To say the effect is unsettling would be understatement.  As a reader, I could never become completely comfortable with either story - the action scenes were short but believable and the scenes before the society came off like \\"Twelve Angry Men\\".  It felt cramped and claustrophobic.<br />Ray Peters is a competent writer.  His prose is tame and soothing, but occasionally veers into the jarring with attempts at youthful slang and sentimental with Livingston's reflections on how his relationships with his son and grandson have gone south.  But these passages are few and far between and do not detract from the book as a whole.<br />I confess to not knowing whether this book is truly a work of fiction or whether it is a pet theory of the author's, trussed up to look like a novel.  The lengths that Livingston goes to flesh out his theory are great, and I occasionally found myself siding with the skeptics at The Lafitte Society in claiming that the attorney was straining for filler to flesh out his ideas.  But Peters has also provided a bibliography, a rarity in fiction, which indicates that he has done a good deal of research and clearly has some thoughts on the subject.  In the author biography, Peters describes himself as \\"an amateur historian\\", so he may actually be writing what he believes to be true.<br />It is a credit to Peters that each of the three subsections of this book has something to recommend it.  The Lafitte history (actually that of a possibly-invented character named Jean Paul) is vivid and exciting, detailing events in the War of 1812 and John Paul Jones' pivotal naval battle with a certain grace.  The argument before the Lafitte Society, though often annoying in its tedious back and forth, makes Livingston's critics bold and humorous.  For me, the final bit was the meat of the story, the growing bond between Livingston and his grandson Mickey, a timid boy who lives in the shadow of his overbearing father.  I was sad and intrigued as the old fellow resorted to bribery and coercion to get Mickey to listen to his tale, but warmed as the boy's interest grew.<br />You won't find any definitive answers regarding John Paul Jones, Jean Lafitte or even Napoleon in this book, but you will find an entertaining and intriguing puzzle.  You may learn to question history.  Or you may just want to pick up the phone and call your granddad.  Any of these is reason enough to read \\"The Lafitte Case\\".	2002-05-09
US	53069821	R2IORJIUQRD5I4	0671578391	556353005	The Dracula Tape	Books	3	16	28	N	N	Good Idea, Mediocre Execution	Lord help me, I have recently turned to vampire ficiton for entertainment.  This is bad for several reasons, the first being that there is so darned much of it I'll never get through it all, the second being that, with so much to choose from, one is bound to come across a few stinkers.<br />And a stinker is what we have with Saberhagen's \\"Dracula Tapes\\".  Purportedly the transcript of a tape left in the vehicle of one of Mina Harker's descendants, the tapes represent the redoubtable Count's attempt at setting the record straight.  Is he a decent fellow, maligned in Stoker's compilation of journal entries and letters?  Or is he a liar, out to gain sympathy by weaving a tale of persecution?<br />Certainly, it behooves the reader to have read \\"An Old Friend of the Family\\", the first in Saberhagen's Dracula appropriations, in which the old bat arrives in Chicago to assist another set of Mina's descendants with some unpleasantness.  This novel gives the reader the background requirted to accept Vlad as a good guy.<br />Saberhagen tries valiantly to clear Dracula's name in this book by sticking faithfully to the text of the original and refuting individual points.  But the effect is unsettling and unbelievable; one has the impression that the vampire is making this all up on the spot and sounds ridiculous doing so.  For example, who could possibly believe Dracula using a wolf's head as a battering ram to smash open Lucy's window?<br />The writing is stilted and awkward (but also was Stoker's, so who's to say Saberhagen didn't write this way on purpose?) and at its best when Drac is going head to head with the weird Van Helsing, who, in this version, is an incompetent old fool.  It's obvious that Saberhagen wrote the screenplay and novelization of the Coppola film version, because here Dracula speaks in a strange, Gary Oldmanesque cadence that looks as odd as the film sounded.<br />Much of the book is merely transcripts of Stoker's original, serving to refresh the reader'smemory while giving the narrator ammunition to rebut.<br />This is a fun novel, written, it seems, as an exercise, to see whether it could be done.  It's not the best ever written, nor is it the best of the author's vampire series, but it will pass a pleasant hour or two and not make you race to the original for purification.	2002-04-24
US	53069821	R2RMQ275F1IJCT	0312150768	614845414	Celestial Dogs: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Good "Dogs" - Have a Biscuit	Jay Russell may be America's best-kept secret.  I blame myself for this.  And you, of course.  If you and I had bothered to read his work, he might be a lot more famous.  Instead, he ran off to the UK and rests in relative obscurity.<br />Shame on you.<br />Russell is the author of a short series of books featuring Marty Burns, former child TV star and washed-up private eye.  In \\"Celestial Dogs\\", Marty is introduced as a likeable drunk, a not-too-terribly sharp detective and a Hollywood namedropper par excellence.  Every page is filled with so much LA lore you'd think the author spends his days on a studio backlot with a tape recorder running.<br />\\"Dogs\\" starts off like your ordinary LA potboiler.  Witty, wisecracking and jaded PI is hired to locate a stripper for a local pimp.  During his investigation, PI is lied to, beaten up, misled and has his body taken over by a demon from Japanese mythology.<br />You heard me.  This ain't Elvis Cole we're talkin' about.<br />It turns out that the myths are truth and that one particularly bad-bootied demon has already joined the guest list at Spago.  Marty and his new girlfriend Rosa find themselves in the middle of this dreamworld trying to protect themselves and the people they care about from things they can barely comprehend.<br />Jay Russell does wisecracks like nobody's business.  His writing is deceptively easy and fluid, making \\"Celestial Dogs\\" speed past like a Ferrari, but Russell manages to tell a darned good story.  I bought this book because I had read the author's \\"Brown Harvest\\" and liked it, but the Marty Burns tales quickly rose to the top of my favorite detective stories list.<br />If you are put off by a supernatural element in your mysteries, \\"Celestial Dogs\\" might not be for you, but if you enjoy a little macabre with your mayhem, you'll love it.<br />Jay Russell deserves to be more than a well-kept secret.	2002-04-10
US	53069821	R9ABKA3M538RV	0965205207	120844486	Funky Butt Blues	Books	4	7	8	N	Y	Funky, but Cool	Not too very long ago, I read a satisfying mystery novel about a fellow hunting for the second set of recordings laid down by bluesman Robert Johnson.  I, at the time, was a novice mystery reader, unaware of the tricks that writers sometimes play on us, imagining such things as missing (but plausibly real) manuscripts and recordings by historical figures.  I have since become aware that this is common mysterious grounds and have read books about a found holistic manuscript by Mark Twain (which, ironically, was actually discovered about a year later), &quot;lost&quot; paintings by old masters and recording sessions by great musicians.<br />&quot;Funky Butt Blues&quot; is just such a mystery, in which author F. G. Fox imagines a recording that may or may not have been set down by Father of Jazz, Buddy Bolden.  Bolden has long been acknowledged as one of the first men to actually play a primitive form of the music we now know as jazz and such luminaries as Louis Armstrong and Jelly Roll Morton claim to have heard him play.  Trouble is, no one knows for sure how he sounded, as no recordings exist.<br />Enter Max, independent librarian, freelance cataloguer, and guy with a knack for being in the wrong place at the wrong time.  Hired to catalog an eccentric rich guy's rare books and records prior to selling them, Max discovers what may be the only known recording of Bolden's music, a song that may or may not be called &quot;Funky Butt Blues&quot;.  He also, regrettably, discovers why the last librarian is no longer working there; being murdered makes it hard to report for duty.<br />The result is a quirky, intelligent and occasionally hilarious run through New Orleans as seen by an insider. This is especially refreshing given the spate of mysteries that claim to be set in the Big Easy but which take no greater advantage of the locale than having the characters swing by the Cafe du Monde for sugary beignets.<br />Fox's insider status, the quality that makes this book fascinating and compelling, may also be what hinders it most as a mystery.  He writes Max from the first person and makes him opinionated and curmudgeonly.  We are offered rants on topics as varied as library science and the financial quagmire that is the Louisiana SuperDome.  While a pleasure to read, they do tend to take the reader out of the story an into the rant, only to be plunked unceremoniously back into the action at odd times.  The effect is unsettling.<br />Don't get me wrong; I thoroughly enjoyed this book and have, in fact, read it twice.  I'd recommend it highly to anyone who appreciates jaunty, quirky mysteries and has the ability to overlook the home-made, self-published feel of many of the non-mainstream books being published through alternate means.  &quot;Funky Butt Blues&quot; is a joy and well-worth the extra effort it may take.  If you've had it up to here with slick mysteries with no heart, or with New Orleans mysteries that read like they were set in Ontario and the author just used his &quot;Find &amp; Replace&quot; feature, &quot;Funky Butt Blues&quot; will delight.	2001-12-27
US	53069821	RJN2R1LQTU9B6	0441007651	697657229	Shadows Bend: A Novel of the Fantastic and Unspeakable	Books	1	14	18	N	N	A Novel of Horrible and Unspeakable Fantasy	Even when two writers write well, collaboration is an itchy thing.  Unless the pair is deliberately writing two different voices, they must carefully mesh their styles and dialog into a seamless narrative designed to maintain the illusion that the book you are holding is a cohesive and unified whole.  When done well, it can be a beautiful thing; two voices telling the same tale, adding idea to idea and raising the entire project to a sublime place.<br />If the writers are unqualified hacks, however, the mess resembles the result of a Creative Writing 101 final after the TA trips while carrying the manuscripts.<br />Can you guess into which category &quot;Shadows Bend&quot; falls?<br />Unqualified ha...I mean, writers David Barbour and Richard Raleigh have imagined a world in which two famous pulp writers meet in order to drop a coin into the jukebox from Hell in order to prevent the end of the world as we know it.  &quot;Oh,&quot; you think.  &quot;It's going to be that kind of novel.&quot;  <br />Though HP Lovecraft and &quot;Conan&quot; creator Robert E. Howard never met, Barbour and Raleigh ask us to imagine that they did.  Also, that Cthulhu and the rest of the Old Ones are real and trying to rend the fabric of time and space in order to occupy our universe.  Also, that any godlike being would think our universe was worth occupying, but that's another matter completely.<br />It's an interesting premise, interesting enough to get me to plunk down my money and take my chance.  But the result is something less than promised.<br />Lovecraft and Howard set off on a nostalgia tour down Route 66 in order to destroy &quot;the artifact&quot; that would allow the Old Ones into our parking space.  Along the way they meet Glory, a college-educated former prostitute who has read the works of Lovecraft and Howard, as well as that of Clarke Ashton, who makes a brief appearance later, who joins them in their travels.  Terrible things happen.  They save the universe.  Blah blahblah.<br />My quibbles with this novel are large, broad ones.  Well, I have small, subtle ones, but I won't bore you with them unless you write and ask for them.  First, it appears that Raleigh and Barbour did not even read one another's work as they wrote.  In some chapters Robert Howard, a Texan, is portrayed as a fellow with a decent command of English.  In others, he nearly eats the scenery by aw-shucksin' his way through his dialog like a cartoon cowboy.  Second, do I really need to point out how damned unlikely it is that a woman in the late thirties would be educated in medieval literature, read pulp fiction and work as a prostitute?  Third, Lovecraft is written as though he were Oscar Wilde or Quentin Crisp.  Fourth, why didn't someone tell Barbour and Raleigh that Southwestern Indians aren't the cool mystical minority they once were?  Fifth, well, the ending is so lame you won't believe it.  I would assume that the reason a writer would want to include historical characters in a modern novel is because he has something to say about that person, or that person is just the right character on which to hang the plot.  In this novel, Barbour and Raleigh might just as well have written about *me*.  *I* can slip a coin into a slot, too.  And I bet I would have picked the right one the first time out.<br />If you're a Lovecraft or Howard fan, you might want to read this, but my guess is that it would be just too painful to see these two men massacred in print like this.  If you read only one book using Lovecraft and Howard as characters this year, um, on second thought, read something else.	2001-12-03
US	53069821	R1JO688K44685I	0679783571	564676745	The Broke Diaries: The Completely True and Hilarious Misadventures of a Good Girl Gone Broke	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Here's the antidote...	I admit it.  That's me laughing to myself in the men's room.  I've been reading Angela Nissel's \\"The Broke Diaries\\" during rest stops and I can't stop chuckling even though people are starting to give me funny looks even when I'm not in there.  Oh, wait.  Maybe they've always given me funny looks and I just never noticed.<BR>\\"The Broke Diaries\\" is the perfect book for these times of financial trouble and economic uncertainty.  The author, Angela Nissel, kept an Internet diary of her fiscal struggles as a college student in Philadelphia.  She developed a following, then captured the attention of a publisher who decided to collect the diaries and publish them in book form.<BR>Sheesh.  I should be so lucky.<BR>* * *<BR>Nissel chronicles the frustration of opening the cupboard and finding nothing to eat but a single grit, then segues into a rant on food that comes packaged in tubes (complete with diagram).  She tells of buying a pair of pants for two bucks from among a rack of discarded clothing at the dry cleaner's, only to discover they were her own, left because she didn't have the nine dollars to rescue them three months prior.<BR>She regales us with a tale about a bounced check that sets off an avalanche of bounced check charges.  Unable to get the bank manager to reverse them, Angela quits the bank and storms off, only to discover she can't open an account anywhere else and becomes one of the bankless, roaming from check cashing place to check cashing place like the Flying Dutchman.<BR>Ah, memories.  Reading Nissel's Diaries made me think about my own broke life.  (...)Reading \\"The Broke Diaries\\" made me think of all the things I did to survive when times were tough, but not in a bad way.  The author's easy wit and high spirits about her broke state made me think about the fun parts of living hand to mouth and so deeply in debt I thought I'd never see daylight.  (...)  <BR>Angela Nissel has written a wonderful book about a situation close to many of us.  It's an antidote for our current troubled economic state and an uncertain world.	2001-11-27
US	53069821	RNWF2MW09ZMVY	0312874448	287097090	In the Country of the Blind	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Michael Flynn is King.	I purchased Michael Flynn's &quot;In the Country of the Blind&quot; on the say so of a few positive reviews right here on Amazon. I'm not sure why it even came up on my Amazon radar screen; the book suggestions here often seem as randomly generated as a roll of the dice. Perhaps it was because I profess to enjoy Tim Powers, whose oeuvre consists of similar history-bending themes. Maybe it was because I happened to stumble across a Harry Turtledove book or two. Who knows?<BR><br /><BR>For that matter, who cares? When a book is this good, maybe I should just thank divine providence for sending it my way. Or, um, maybe the Babbage Society.<BR><br /><BR>When Sarah Beaumont accidentally stumbles across some old machinery and a list of obscure historical dead ends, she thinks little of it. But when people around her begin dying or disappearing, she comes to the conclusion that her finds have greater importance. She learns through her researches that she has inadvertently set a secret society bent on predicting and controlling the future in motion to silence her.<BR><br /><BR>From this interesting premise springs an intriguing book that works on a number of levels, each weaving in and out of the others into a tight tapestry. While some fans of this book promote it as an example of &quot;secret history&quot; (books that take an existing bit of history and make up a fictional reason for its occurrence), &quot;In the Country of the Blind&quot; barely deals with this subject. Instead, the bulk is more like a spy novel a la John LeCarre, with a framework of historical meddling by the Babbage Society. It is a bizarre love story. It is a novel of awakening. And, importantly, it is a novel of ideas. If you could change the future, would you? What if it required the death of an innocent in order to save thousands? What if it required the death of thousands to prevent the deaths of millions? What if you just wanted to make a few bucks in the stock market?<BR><br /><BR>Flynn handlesthese disparate parts well, giving each its due and creating a satisfying novel. He is remarkably evenhanded in his examination of the ethics of engineering the future, allowing every conceivable argument of which I could think (and a few that didn't even occur to me) a fair shot at representation. His writing style is not necessarily the most skilful, producing many odd clunkers or awkward sentences, but the overall effect is nice, smooth. It's an easy read and a good one.<BR><br /><BR>I rarely comment on the reviews of others, but I feel someone should point out to one of my esteemed contemporaries that the woman on the cover of the reissue is, in fact, a black woman, albeit a light-skinned one, so it may as well be me who does so. Ahem. The woman on the cover of the reissue is, in fact, a black woman, albeit a light-skinned one. So there.<BR><br /><BR>I started this novel without a clue and ended it caring about most of the characters. They had become familiar and friendly and I hated to see it end.	2001-11-12
US	53069821	R3NK2BQCM9L3EE	0380819007	225010826	Mendoza in Hollywood (A Novel of the Company, Book 3)	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	Mendoza in Love	I wasn't certain how to take this longish third novel of The Company.  On the one hand, I enjoyed the first two enough to continue.  I like Baker's tantalizing, expository striptease as she slowly reveals the history and future of the company.  I like Mendoza's pragmatism and the way Baker counterpoints her attitude with those of the oddball cast of characters with whom Mendoza shares this book.  I like the oddly compelling ending about which I cannot write without giving away a huge chunk of surprise.<BR><br /><BR>On the other hand, I was put off by the overall feel of the book, which seems more like an extended love letter to Hollywood in general and DW Griffith specifically, than a novel about Mendoza and her dilemma.  Not that this is a bad thing, but when a large portion of the book is devoted to a scene-by-scene recount of the famed director's &quot;Intolerance&quot;, it begins to feel like so much filler.<BR><br /><BR>Baker's humor is more understated in &quot;Mendoza in Hollywood&quot;, relying primarily on the character &quot;Oscar&quot;, one of Mendoza's companions in the Caslifornia desert where she has been assigned.  Oscar is an operative whose primary function whould be data collection, but who has become obsessed with his cover, that of a traveling salesman, and spends the entire book trying to sell a pie safe.  His humor is more broad than I generally like, being more WC Fields than Groucho Marx, but he does make some genuinely insightful observations and get off a few laughs.<BR><br /><br />Other characters are more tragic, expecially the older cyborgs, whose minds are starting to break down after millenia on the job.<BR><br /><BR>Mostly, this is an expository book, not one that deals much with plot or characterization.  It's a fine placeholder for what I hope will be better books in the future, but certainly cannot stand on it's own.<BR><br /><BR>The reason I gave this book 4 stars, however, is that the final third of the book, where we begin to see something of a plot develop, is exciting as all get out, being full of mystery, intrigue, romance, derring-do and some of the stranger bombshells to be dropped since this series began.	2001-10-28
US	53069821	R2RZYLSMCG7RBU	1568581750	184193376	Atom	Books	2	3	9	N	N	Bleck	I thought I was a pretty open-minded person a couple of years ago, but I either never was, or I have become less so in my older age.  &quot;Atom&quot; by Steve Aylett really put my senses to the test, however.<BR><br /><BR>This book, after just a few pages in, seems more like a joke on the reader than a novel.  It almost reads like a Burroughs opium nightmare about a private eye, or a Gertrude Stein poem about one.  There is no plot and even a nonlinear thinker will become lost amid the electron-induced battling plotlines.<BR><br /><BR>I could be wrong, I hope I am, but I have a feeling that the people who loved this book and gave it excellent reviews were just not up to the task of admitting it didn't make much sense.	2001-10-28
US	53069821	R1E80NUOZHZUJZ	0060922559	50396174	Legends , Lies  & Cherished Myths of World History	Books	2	28	39	N	N	Bad History	Richard Schenkman admiots he doesn't know much about history.  he says so throughout the book.  &quot;I don't know if this is true...&quot; he writes at the beginning of nearly ten percent of the paragraphs in this slim volume, then tries to make some lame joke about the veracity of Cleopatra's looks or Catherine the Great's sexual proclivities.<BR><br /><BR>It seems to me that, if you plan to write a book exploding the myths of popular history, you might want to start out by establishing your credentials to enhance believability instead of shooting yourself in the foot.  <BR><br /><BR>Most of the entries in this book are just a few pages, not enough to establish truth or lack thereof, but enough to provide lots of white space to enhance the thickness of the tome without bogging the reader down with content.  To make matters worse, Schenkman writes in the worst Scholastic Book Club patronizing tone, which serves to put off the intelligent reader.<BR><br /><BR>Unless you've tapped out all other sources, I wouldn't bother with this book.	2001-10-28
US	53069821	R382QX49R1CCUK	0446340251	751008612	Big Fish	Books	4	62	63	N	N	Big Fun	Let me tell you a little about my week.  I've been working long hours, getting low pay and even less recognition.  In the evenings I worked out and ate poorly.  To relax, I tried to read Jane Smiley's &quot;Moo&quot;.<BR><br /><BR>Normally I read a book every couple of days.  I've been slogging through &quot;Moo&quot; for weeks.  I'm not sure whether it's exhaustion or lack of interest, but the fact is, I was bored and frustrated.<BR><br /><BR>But then I found &quot;Big Fish&quot; by Thomas Perry.  I'd known this novel existed for years, but have never been able to find a copy.  I loved the author's &quot;Metzger's Dog&quot; and &quot;The Butcher's Boy&quot; and was intrigued.  I opened to the first page, just to get an idea of the style, and the next thing I knew three hours had passed and I was done.<BR><br /><BR>&quot;Big Fish&quot; is the story of two charming, relatively small-time gunrunners who become embroiled in a plot to control the world.  I won't tell you how or why, because that's part of the fun, but I will tell you that along the way they collect a Hollywood agent and teach him to be a commando, and a Hollywood director and teach him to be a human being.<BR><br /><BR>The writing is crisp and clean, with no words wasted on unnecessary exposition or description.  Perry, in fact, is reminiscent of Gregory McDonald at his most terse and entertaining, but can be more goofy and relaxed.<BR><br /><BR>This book was just what I needed to get the taste of the week and Jane Smiley out of my mouth.  It's out of print, which is disappointing, but I bet you can find it used or at a library.  And, who knows, as Perry's recent books become more mainstream, &quot;Big Fish&quot; just might be republished.	2001-10-27
US	53069821	REERRRURUU4CE	0595089798	145297148	Joker Poker	Books	3	4	5	N	Y	Mediocre Joker	&quot;Joker Poker&quot;, by Richard Helms is an entertaining and interesting romp through the dumber side of hard-boiled private eye fiction.  <BR><br /><BR>It's obvious that Helms has done his homework and that he loves the genre; there are elements of the tough-guy spareness of Hammett, the purple poetry of Chandler and even the cool violence of James Lee Burke tucked throughout this freshman outing.  But his adherence to the genre's rules may have been the book's eventual downfall - there's no room for hardboiled writers who simply rehash the classics anymore.<BR><br /><BR>Does anyone buy the femme fatale a la' Brigid O'Shaughnessy anymore?  Or mush-mouthed Italian gangsters?  Wise-cracking tough guys?  There may be some people who still want this out there, but to the rest of us, this kind of thing is way past its freshness date.  If you can't do anything new with the genre, as Burke tried, or Vachss or Parker, then why try?<BR><br /><BR>&quot;Joker Poker&quot; is the story of Pat Gallegher, a legbreaker for the mob who plays jazz horn, reads the classics, and is generally as nice a burnout as you can find.  In addition to his collection duties, Gallegher does favors for friends, like finding lost people, despite the fact that he has no experience, no money, no PI license, no credibility and no purpose.  Just about the only thing he has going for him is his massive, bear-like size.  Author Helms would have us believe that people in trouble shop for help the way others shop for toilet paper - go for the large, economy size and all will be well.<BR><br /><BR>So why does this sweet, sensitive soul smack people around for a living?  Well, because he's into a local loan shark for twenty large and the guy is letting him work off the debt by doing collections.  But when Clancey Vincouer shows up and asks him to locate her missing lover, Gallagher demands paymnent in rare jazz recordings rather than in cash that would help resolve his predicament.  Gallagher also owns astereo system that he could sell for a buck or two.  It's hard to have sympathy for a main character who is a complete ninny, or who is lying to you.  Which is it?  Is he forced to do a distasteful job by his lack of funds, or does he just use that as an excuse because he likes to hit people?<BR><br /><BR>Gallagher also gets involved with Vincouer's girlfriend, Meg, a woman who telegraphs the fact that she is bad news like some people breathe in and out.  Helms paints her with such broad brushstrokes, it's almost hard not to picture her as Tom Sawyer's whitewashed fence.<BR><br /><BR>Other clumsy characters include a pair of silent Cajun bodyguards, a Viet Nam vet Soldier of Fortune who is &quot;about a hundred and twenty percent around the bend, with both diesels chuggung&quot;, a long-suffering attorney friend who apparently does nothing but pro bono work and a sad-faced cop who gives suspects an even break so they can clear their name.  Jeez Louise, did Helms just call down to central casting, or what?<BR><br /><BR>The New Orleans location here is incidental and doesn't really add to or detract from the story.<BR><br /><BR>Helms has the potential to be a fine storyteller, but needs a firm editor and some chops before he will be a fine novelist.  &quot;Joker Poker&quot; is humorous and entertaining, but not much more than that.	2001-10-09
US	53069821	R3LBLHXYS71RL8	0871135388	580782136	Get Your Tongue Out of My Mouth, I'm Kissing You Good-Bye	Books	3	9	14	N	N	Not Heimel's Best	Cynthia Heimel is known for her angry-grrl rag, dished up with a healthy sense of humor, so I was up for a little good-natured male-bashing when I read this book.  I was a little unprepared for the torrent of angry essays I found upon reading past the introduction. <br /> Not an essay passes without Heimel wanting to shoot or stab someone because they don't agree with her or haven't acheived the same level of spiritual enlightenment.  Women who want boyfriends?  Shoot 'em.  Sexist men?  Shoot 'em.  Women who are getting sex because they aren't feminists?  Shoot 'em.  Heimel's world is a bloodbath, with her unhumorous hand on the trigger. <br /> I don't have a problem with women who write that men are jerks, since most of us are.  But I can't advocate gunning us down because we're insensitive, not even in jest.  When you pick up a book by a celebrated humorist, you expect to find some clever observations and maybe a few unpopular ideas.  But this was just a barrage of meanness worthy of Sam Kinnison or Andrew Dice Clay.	2001-06-26
US	53069821	R21B4QDRA1TQTF	0380713608	718025162	Morning for Flamingos, A	Books	5	32	34	N	N	Building a Better Burke	This is, without a doubt, one of the better of the Dave Robicheaux novels.  As always, James Lee Burke writes with a lyrical grace that should awe the average reader.  And this early novel was written before he started plagiarizing himself wholesale, stealing plots, characters and even entire paragraphs in order to flesh out his balletic swamp-songs. <br /> A black mark on this otherwise fine novel is the odd decision to have Dave go undercover in the home of Mobster Tony Cardo, a razor-edged freak of a man living on the outlines of his own criminal organization.  Personally, if I were a crook, I'd never accept an ex-cop into my home, but maybe that's just me - the fact is that tony does and that's how this rollicking book gets going.   <br /> It's not important that there's any more plot than that - in a Burkle novel, the setting is the most important element.  As always, Burke paints pictures and only incidentally places characters and action within them, with the exception of Dave Robicheaux himself.  I have always admired Dave - he is morally ambiguous and righteously angry, which causes him to behave in ways that are almost as freakish as Tony Cardo's ways.  An example is dave's heroism at the climax of this novel - it's both awe-inspiring and breathtaking, but it's probably not what I wold have done in the same situation. <br /> Burke is an amazing writer and a good story-teller.  He's not a bad painter, either.	2001-06-22
US	53069821	R23ET5MTW28F1E	0312868324	796074142	The Art of Arrow Cutting : A Novel of Magic-Noir Suspense	Books	3	10	18	N	N	Artless Arrow Cutting	&quot;The Art of Arrow Cutting&quot; is a clumsy novel with a clever premise written by a writer who thinks he's cleverer than he is.  From the main character's too-precious name (Michelangelo &quot;Mage&quot; Magistrale), to the film-aware dialog (which sounded good when we were in college, up late and drinking too much coffee, but doesn't sound so fresh as dialog in a fantasy book), this is a directionless book that could have used a firmer hand with a red pencil. <br /> Mage accidentally comes into the possession of a &quot;focus&quot;, a magical item that causes happy accidents to occur in favor of the user.  Regrettably, it also causes the villain, the wealthy wizard, Tamenaga, to hunt the user down and kill him or her (as he had the previous owner).  This causes Mage enough consternation that he decides to use the focus to get revenge while being hunted by demons from Japanese mythology. <br /> Sadly, the synopsis is more exciting than the book itself.  Dedman's writing skills are at first-year creative writing student levels and this is a tale that requires a defter hand, a better sense of humor and a wider imagination.   <br /> This is an interesting read and can be entertaining as long as your expectations are low.	2001-06-22
US	53069821	R3GQK1PO9L4D8W	1587153092	953166841	Bureau 13 : #1 Judgment Night	Books	3	5	18	N	Y	Oh, Puh-leeeeeeez...	While the concept for this book is entertaining, it's execution is the worst example of self-congratulatory, 2-dimensional, claptrap I've ever read. <br /> Sure, according to Pollotta, he came up with this long before \\"The X-Files\\" and \\"Men in Black\\" were twinkles in their creators' eyes, but he must be slinking in shame to have been bested so effortlessly.  While those two examples are entertaining and competent, Pollotta's effort reads as though he simply transcribed an evening's worth of conversation during a role-playing game. <br /> Worse, his characters are cribbed from the \\"Magnificent Seven\\" songbook, each more powerful, competent, smart or magical than the last.  Jeezus Louisuz, doesn't he realize that what makes characters interesting are their flaws, not their strengths? <br /> The book is a quick read and kind of fun in a puerile way, but it's not worth the gazillion stars previous reviewers have bestowed upon it.	2001-06-16
US	53069821	R3NN4VUKZPE2N4	0740713922	686460092	The Dog Is Not a Toy: House Rule #4	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Not Enough of a Good Thing	It's rarre that I laugh out loud at anything, but I found myself giggling hysterically at &quot;Get Fuzzy&quot; every time I came across it in the newspaper.  Imagine my joy at finding this entire book full of weekly strips!   <br /> Bucky the psychotic cat is a study in perverse sensibility.  Satchel, the long-suffering dog, is a psychic sponge, alternately sucking the rationale of Rob (the pair's &quot;owner&quot;) or Bucky, as the moment strikes.   <br /> Frankly, just looking at the way Conley draws Bucky &amp; Satchel, with pot bellies and little round feet, makes me laugh; it dosn't hurt that Conley's sense of humor is also as sharp as Bucky's  single fang.	2001-06-16
US	53069821	R35S72MI7Y5UB6	0156006391	937190844	The Seville Communion	Books	2	3	7	N	N	The Plot is Wafer-Thin	it is perhaps appropriate that the bulk of this novel takes place in a musty old Spanish church in the act of being restored, as the writing a plotting here are as musty as the material.  It pains me to say this, as I loved Perez-Reverte's &quot;Flander's Panel&quot; and &quot;The Club Dumas&quot;.  But what those two books carried in flair and style, this one replaces with dull characters and a plodding pace. <br />	2001-06-09
US	53069821	R3OXDQE5B3KG4M	0964355906	869540214	A Guide to Mysterious San Francisco: Dr. Weirde's Weirde Tours	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	Home is a Place you Always Come Back to	Any San Francisco guidebook can send you to the most popular restaurant in town or direct you to a museum.  A really good one can fill you in on the historical significance of that plaque at the corner of Bush &amp; Burrit and give you a brief biography of Emperor Norton.  But only the best of them can guide you to the sites of famous murders, hauntings, weirde occurences and centers of supernatural energy. <br /> Eldritch Weirde has compiled a wonderful guide for the morbid with &quot;A Guide to Mysterious San Francisco&quot;, and it is deserving of a sequel, as well as to be reprinted a thousand times over.  Certainly, it is lacking in information on restaurants, hotels and musea, but that isn't why you bought the book, now is it?  You read it to be entertained and titillated, excited and disturbed.  And you will be.	2001-06-09
US	53069821	R1ZTE6I89GK2PV	0670886408	680707728	Syrup	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Goes down sweet	Every once in a while a book flies in under your radar.  Usually, it's been recommended by a friend, or worse, an acquaintance who thinks you'd just love it. You've never heard of it, the cover looks suspicious and you just know that, if it were any good, the publisher would have spent more money and effort marketing it.  But to be a good friend or acquaintance you just have to read the darned thing, especially since you've shoved at least four &quot;great&quot; books down this person's throat over the course of the last couple of years. <br /> &quot;Syrup&quot; by Maxx Barry is just such a book.  A friend gave it to me because I studied Marketing in college, thinking that I would find it more hilarious than might the average Joe.  I was going to do my usual book-borrowing routine (read a chapter in the middle, then hand the book back saying &quot;It was great, but I especially loved the part where...&quot;, then quote chapter on verse on the small part I actually read),but something terrible happened...I became interested.  I actually laughed.  Out loud. <br /> As has been mentioned, this is the story of Scat (who changed his name to &quot;Scat&quot; in order to become wealthy, powerful and famous), developer of great Marketing ideas, his partner and object of unrequited love, 6, and their arch-enemy, Sneaky Pete.  The three wage war on the landscape of Coca Cola Corp. in LA. <br /> The trouble with just about any novel in which the characters must come up with brilliant ideas is that the ideas are generally only good within the confines of the novel, where the writer can edit out any realists who might claim, &quot;Um, that couldn't possibly work in this context.&quot;  But that's a small suspension of  disbelief to make when the payoff is this much fun. <br /> Scat, frankly, is an idiot.  But an idiot with charm.  6 is unkind, but crafty, and warms up.  Sneaky Pete is...well, nothing.  He's a cardboard villain with no real personality.  But that's okay, he serveshis purpose well. <br /> There's no real depth to this book, but that's okay, too.  It's hilarious and warm and sweet and worth a good look.  If you get the chance, buy the hardcover, as the cover on the trade paperback is absolutely distracting and ridiculous.	2001-06-04
US	53069821	R1YS7KXZ57VHT2	157061184X	843313667	Eat This, San Francisco: Dives, Joints, All-Night Cafes, and Other Cheap Eats in the Bay Area	Books	3	5	8	N	N	I Wish this Book had Been Released in 1995...	because then it would have been only half as annoying. <br /> As a long-time resident of San Francisco, I read Dan Leone's &quot;Cheap Eats&quot; column regularly, so it was natural for me to want the compilation book.  Sadly, I discovered that what works well in a weekly column kind of fills you up quickly in larger doses. <br /> When you can compare columns and watch Dan progess over a period of time, it becomes obvious what a one-trick pony he is.  He's like a six year old child who's just learned a new bad word and delights in repeating it over and over to shock dinner guests.  So many of his columns are a study in scatology, that it makes one wonder how he eats at all with visions of body wastes dancing in his head. <br /> Dan Leone can be funny, in Ferrelly Brothers kind of way, and many of his columns make for amusing reading.  But a little of him goes a long, long way.	2001-05-29
US	53069821	R2NYSSKW5QA5M9	0399147101	540217053	Potshot	Books	3	5	5	N	N	It would be too easy to make a pun on the title...	Another Spenser novel, and the margins are wider than ever; what used to take me an hour to read now takes forty-five minutes.  But they are forty-five quality minutes, dontcha know? <br /> One of the things I used to like about Parker's Spenser novels was the way they gave the illusion of an internally-consistent world.  Secondary characters met previously would appear later in either smaller or pivotal roles, sort of the way people drift in and out of our own personal lives.  But over time, Parker started playing this schtick to death, until it became a peculiar form of self-parody. <br /> In &quot;Potshot&quot;, the latest outing, Spenser rounds up his posse, comprised of every sympathetic tough guy he's ever met.  Many of these tough guys have tried to kill him in the past, but over time have become part of Spenser's extended sewing circle of sensitive macho men.  It's a darned unlikely scenario, and one that doesn't really work when played out in this format. <br /> The mystery here is paper-thin, with a coating of olive oil, so it is completely transparent.  That's because the story has nothing to do with &quot;whodunnit&quot;, but more with &quot;seehowcuteiam?&quot;.  In the end, it doesn't matter if we know who the killer is, we are to walk away with the idea that Spenser is a noble savage and that he somehow imparted his sense of frontier wisdom and justice to his more vicious compatriots. <br /> Weirdly, I liked &quot;Potshot&quot;, in the same way that I like a good Bugs Bunny cartoon.  In the end, it doesn't matter how Bugs managed to find a contractor willing to build an elevator in his rabbit hole; what matters is how cool he looks riding it up and down.  That's the secret to enjoying a Spenser novel if you have half a brain - see how cool he looks riding it up and down.	2001-05-12
US	53069821	R3E5IUHPN71302	0425178781	653077228	In the Blood	Books	5	17	18	N	Y	Hell of a Good Read	&quot;In the Blood&quot; by Don Donaldson is a pretty sharp medical thriller.  Normally, I don't cross into this territory, but decided to venture here after enjoying Donaldson's &quot;Do No Harm&quot; last year.  This followup does not disappoint. <br /> The appeal of any medical thriller, I think, is its basis in possibility - could the events described in the book really happen and, if so, how horrible would they be?  Donaldson cooks up twin threats that are both likely and awful to contemplate.  the first is the threat of contaminated beef and its effect on those who consume it.  I don't think I have to remind any reader of the current situation in Europe. <br /> As if that wasn't enough, Donaldson ups the ante by imagining a situation in which nonviable human fetuses are being produced in order produce a particular drug, which may have a beneficial effect and save lives.  The reader is left contemplating the moral and ethical implications of human experimentation.  The initial revulsion gives way to medical possibility.  By then, you're sucked in and questioning your own senses. <br /> The characters are likeable, and don't jump off the page at you.  This is a good thing, as perfect, inhuman characters are a distraction not worthy of a talented craftsman like Donaldson.  Holly Fisher, the catalyst who begets the novel by having her viable eggs stolen, is strong-willed, but not tough, making enough mistakes to seem real, but intelligent enough to backtrack and get the job done.   <br /> &quot;In the Blood&quot; is taut and sharp as a scalpel and I highly recommend it to mystery lovers and fans of medical thrillers alike.	2001-05-11
US	53069821	R5HNP1G99V0EV	0312021755	29714599	Cajun Nights	Books	5	26	26	N	N	A Good &quot;Look For&quot; Book	I feel a little silly writing a review of a book that is so out of print you may never find it again.  But on the off-chance it comes back into print, this little write-up will be waiting for it. <br /> Aside from the silly title (there are only two confirmed Cajun characters in the whole book and not a single cajun night), &quot;Cajun Nights&quot; is a wonderful book and a wonderful introduction to a short-lived series. <br /> Kit Franklyn has been hired as a suicide investigator by the Orleans Parrish medical examiner, Andy Broussard, a no-nonsense, lemon-ball-popping eccentric.  Her hiring is fortuitous, as New Orleans has been suffering a rash of murder-suicides that may or may not have been caused by a centuries-old curse. <br /> Author D.J. Donaldson writes New Orleans as though he loves it - is descriptions of locations and familiar landmarks are careful and respectful.   Using Kit, a relative newcomer to the city, her is able to introduce us to New Orleans in a way that is fresh and doesn't come off sounding like a travelogue. <br /> Cajun Nights is an entertaining book that will keep you happily turning pages until the end.  The plot seems far-fetched at first, but makes perfect sense by the time we reach the final page and Donaldson writes well without bogging us down in needless details.	2001-01-22
US	53069821	R1XG8754IAV9SF	0312969023	166805371	The Ultimate Rush	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The Ultimate Read	Okay, let's just accept the fact that, well, there are no facts in this book.  Joe Quirk has admitted that he knows nothing about either inline skating or computer hacking and his writing backs him up on this.  His mistakes are laughable, from his dearth of knowledge about the laws of physics to the fiberglass wheels he places on the bottoms of his character's skates (which would shatter under punishment of riding San Francisco's hills) to the impossible computer programs his characters write to his complete botch-up of the retail distribution methods of crack cocaine. <br /> But you have to decide why you are reading this book.  Is it to gain factual information regarding the underground life of messengers?  I propose not.  Is it to experience a realistic trip through cyberspace?  I hope not.  Or is it to take a breathtaking journey through the fictional San Francisco in Joe Quirk's mind?  If that's your goal, then you will not be disappointed. <br /> Upon reading the first three pages of &quot;The Ultimate Rush&quot;, I was feeling likeI had been punched in the stomach.  I was breathless, tense and shaking, as though I had shared Chet Griffin's ride to the Mission from on high.  I have not read anything that gripping or funny since the first three pages of Neal Stephenson's &quot;Snow Crash&quot;. <br /> Sadly, or perhaps fortunately, Quirk cannot maintain the adrenaline rush of his opening chapter (I say fortunately, because I would not have survived the novel at that opening pace), but he does settle into a rather nice little thriller, one that is chilling, amusing and exciting and just plain fun.  I kept reading deep into the night, hoping to regain that cherry high of the opening.  I wasn't disappointed. <br />   Quirk's characters are fully realized and alive, albeit from a world most of us will never visit.  His girlfriend, Ho, skategrrrrrl supreme and punk rocking lesbian, is fabulous and his next door neighbor, a wheelchair-bound hacker, is funny and resourceful. <br /><br />As has been mentioned before, the plot is ludicrous: Chet is hired to transport illegal data via skates down San Francisco's dangerous hills.  The crooks to whom he delivers eventually turn on and attempt to murder him.  He decides to turn the tables by turning rival gangs and crooked cops on one another in an amazing climactic battle.  That's all. <br /> If you like witty, page-turning, heartstopping novels, give this one a try.  You probably won't be disappointed.	2001-01-22
US	53069821	R2HDUGYJJBCIL5	0441470750	607093737	The Last Coin	Books	2	5	34	N	N	The Last Blaylock Book I'll Read	Once upon a time, James Blaylock wanted so desperately to be Tim Powers that he could taste it.  He tried flavoring his novels with variations on the magical realism of Powers' books, but the best he was able to produce was dreck like &quot;The Last Coin&quot;. <br /> &quot;The Last Coin&quot; is a novel jam-packed with unlikeable, flawed characters.  The protagonist, Andrew Vanbergen, is a sniveling, lying coward who spends the entire book treating his wife, Rose, as though she were an idiot unworthy of being told the truth.  The antagonist, Jules Pennyman, is a magically-preserved old coot who runs around murdering people for their coins (the 30 pieces of silver paid to Judas Iscariot) and living in an upstairs room of Andrew &amp; Rose's inn when he isn't otherwise occupied.  As a villain, he isn't very threatening, and when he does finally manage to gather the coins together, he doesn't get untold power, he turns into a goat-man.  Maybe an eternal goat-man, but I think there are better ways to spend eternity and turning into an immortal goat really isn't enough of a draw to warrant the expense and effort put forth. <br /> Add to this an inexplicable plot about Andrew's attempts to open a cafe in his inn (and wheedling money out of his infirm old aunt to do so, like a petulant, pathetic child), and you have nothing more than a huge, boring mess.  Normally, I read a book a day, but the effort of reading &quot;The Last Coin&quot; was like slogging through sewage - slow and unpleasant - and it took me nearly a week. <br /> The magic aspect was not particularly believable within the confines of the story and made no sense outside it.  The writing is of the worst Creative Writing 101 &quot;Tell Don't Show&quot; blundering. <br /> I was also bored to death by Blaylock's tepid &quot;Homonculus&quot; and was unable even to finish the monstrously dull &quot;The Digging Leviathan&quot;.  I don't understand what people see in his work.  This will probably be my last attempt.	2000-12-19
US	53069821	R3OL3WVBMZTEWN	0879751983	281452341	Flim-Flam! Psychics, ESP, Unicorns, and Other Delusions	Books	4	36	42	N	N	Won't Get Fooled Again...	Come closer, dear reader. I, the amazing psychic Patriki, will tell you all about yourself. You are a skeptic. You do not believe in the claims of phony psychics (those unlike the great Patriki), spoonbenders or UFO researchers. You do not believe in the powers of the Bermuda Triangle. You are a rational person. <br /> Good for you. James Randi's &quot;Flim Flam!&quot; is a fairly well-written and well-researched expose of some of this century's greatest con artists and their self-deceived cousins. Each chapter focuses on a different case, describing in detail the flim-flammer's case, then picking it apart claim by claim. And herein lies the problem. Randi is a methodical, detailed man, well versed in scientific method. He also seems to like the sound of his own typewriter, never using a single paragraph when five will do. <br /> I underwent the same phenomenon during each chapter I read. At first, I was deeply interested. As I continued reading, I kept flipping to the end of the chapter to see how much more of Randi's grandstanding I had to put up with. &quot;And then I did this!&quot; &quot;And then I did that!&quot; Couple this with his penchant for melodrama and his tendency to address the subjects of his exposes by name (&quot;Yes, Mr. Geller, it means exactly that!&quot;)and you have a pretty odd book. I understand his desire to be complete, but if you call your book &quot;Flim Flam!&quot; (with the exclamation point), one assumes you are writing a book to entertain first and inform second. Otherwise, you would call your book &quot;An Investigation into the Validity of Paranormal Claims&quot;, so people would expect a book full of dry scientific lab notes. <br /> In the end, of course, I cannot fault Randi for being thorough, as it is this quality that allows him to prove his point. And most of the book is extremely entertaining. It saddens me that the only people who will read it and get anything from it are people like you and I, who are already convinced.	2000-10-24
US	53069821	R1G3LRJZ1BHGSM	0312262353	376997139	Swamp Gas	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Paolini &lt; &gt; Hiaasen	First, there was Elmore Leonard, who wrote taut, clean suspense novels and infused them with eccentric characters and crackling dialog to make them both believable and alive. <br /> Leonard's heir, of course, is Carl Hiaasen, who amped the eccentricity up to downright wacky, continued the great dialog and remembered to keep one sympathetic character, preferably the protagonist, to which he could anchor the story and for which the reader could keep his fingers crossed that everything was going to turn out okay. <br /> Just as Leonard spawned imitators, Hiaasen has his copycats, too, cats like Nicole Paolini.  The problem with this, of course, is that once you've pushed the envelope as wide as Hiaasen has, there's nothing left to do but rip it up.  And rip it up is what Paolini does with her first novel, &quot;Swamp Gas&quot;. <br /> &quot;Swamp Gas&quot; is the story of a Polish social group who decides to back a Polish-American political candidate in order to increase their presence in New Orleans.  The candidate they select is Lana Pulaski, an ambulance-chasing attorney who has a very lovely photograph on the back of the New Orleans phone directory.  The elected office she wants is Attorney General.  And she'll do anything to get it, including marrying an influential, but ancient and feeble, old judge and turning it into a political event, embarrasing herself and breaking the old fellow's heart.  Oh!  Hee hee!  My sides, they're aching... <br /> At the same time, Lana is hired by the wife of a man accused of a twenty-year old murder, one that seems to have something to do with a land-lease given to a chemical plant.  Lana takes the case, but never has the chance to work on it properly, as her client is murdered only a few days later. <br /> Thrown into the mix is a very old murder, typical Louisiana &quot;business as usual&quot; politics, a washed-up journalist, who just might have the story of his career, head-case hitman Jimmy Crouton who couldn't whack someone properly if they were already dead, crooked judge L'Enfant and his granddaughter, Scarlett, who is actually kind of sweet and the only person in the novel deserving any respect or redemption. <br /> It is my own admitted prejudice that I do not like anti-heroes.  I don't mind when heroes are flawed, but basically good, but when a truly hateful person is cast as the central character in a book, I find myself at a loss.  Lana Pulaski is admittedly a good attorney and the type to do anything to win a case for her clients.  But the way she chews up and spits out the people in this novel is like watching a snake chow down on a family of white mice. <br /> The outrageous character in this book is Jimmy Crouton, who somehow sucked the life out of every scene he was in.  Smoking crack and snorting methamphetamine to gain the courage to commit murder, he is a voracious and ridiculous cousin to the odd, battered people found in Hiaasen novels, one who at no point seems to have a purpose or truly deserve what happens to him. <br /> I didn't hate this book, but I wouldn't recommend it, either.	2000-10-23
US	53069821	R34DF1B8R8YB5F	0595089844	583328729	The Glory Hole Murders	Books	5	11	14	N	N	So Nic e to See this Masterpiece back in Print	Though the opening murder is particularly gruesome (and will cause male readers to sit sidesaddle for the rest of the book)Tony Fennelly's first Matty Sinclair novel is a wonderwork of sly wit, clever plotting and early-eighties sexual freedom in the days before AIDS actually became old news. <br /> Matty himself is the gay scion of an ancient New Orleans family who now runs an antique reproduction boutique.  He is romantically entangled primarily with Robin, a fluffy-skulled youngster with no common sense and eyes only for Matty, but has occasional trysts with other characters throughout, both male and female.  Matty, you see, is an opportunist. <br /> The plot is fairly typical of gay fiction, in that the primary motive of the killer appears to be either a way to &quot;out&quot; his seemingly-straight victims or to exact revenge upon the vagaries of his or her own sexuality.  Overall, the plotting is deft and entertaining, but it is Tony Fennelly's flights of fancy that makes this book such a page-turner; Matty's involvement with a beautiful, young, gay hitman for the mob, for example, is hilarious and lighthearted. <br /> Here's hoping that a successful reprint of &quot;The Glory Hole Murders&quot; will prompt re-issues of the other two Matty Sinclair novels and/or a new installment altogether.	2000-10-17
US	53069821	R24M75TV0T4Y05	1567401244	377380120	Skylar	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Nothing Special	As a longtime fan of the &quot;Fletch&quot; and &quot;Flynn&quot; series', I can understand other reviewers' excitement about the appearance of the &quot;Skylar&quot; books; it represents Gregory MacDonalds' departure from &quot;literature&quot; and return to what he does best - writing crime novels starring quirky, likeable characters who view the world through humorous eyes.<br /> However, just because MacDonald is leaning back in that direction, it doesn't necessarily mean he's put his heart into it.  &quot;Skylar&quot; is a partially-realized novel full of stereotypes (some offensive), caricatures and cardboard cutouts.  Nothing here seems anchored in the real world.<br /> The story: Jonathan Whitfield, stereotypical yuppie relative from the north, appears in quaint, southern (cardboard cutout) Greendowns County, Tennessee, to visit his Uncle and family, including sharp-as-a-tack, hayseed caricature, cousin Skylar, a youthful Matlock-clone.<br /> In terms of mystery, MacDonald had me going to the end, even throwing in a shocker of a twist that both surprised and saddened me.  Basically, someone beats Skylar's sweetheart to death and Skylar is the only suspect.  Because the local Sheriff &amp; deputies are hayseed caricatures of Southern cops, Skylar knows it will be up to him to solve the murder and clear his name.  Cousin Jonathan is along as an observer, someone to represent us, the reader, goggle-eyed and confused by all the southern charm.<br /> As characters go, Sheriff Culpepper was the only fellow I really liked.  Everyone else is so damned self-absorbed they may as well be carrying around mirrors to talk to instead of each other.<br /> MacDonald can be a great writer when he wants to be, but with &quot;Skylar&quot;, I got the impression that he just needed to toss off another book so no one would forget him.  Don't kid yourself for even an instant that this book is written in the &quot;Fletch&quot; mold.	2000-10-11
US	53069821	R2FDA8KEB0GRTT	0380731622	479178648	Loot	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Buried Treasure	Aaron Elkins does not write the most beautiful, or the funniest or the most suspenseful mysteries around.  He doesn't clutter his prose with useless words, hoping to show you how smart he is.  He doesn't write characters with an aim toward showcasing his knowledge or research.  Instead, he is like a hardworking craftsman, turning out solid, well-written books over and over again.  These are books you can count on to entertain, to divert, to engage the reader for a period of time and leave him with a pleasant memory.  Like a good sturdy shelf in the garage, these are books that you will not gush over to guests, but you will count on them again and again, without a lot of thought.  &quot;Loot&quot; is just such a novel. <br /> This is the first of Elkins' books to feature art expert Benjamin Revere from Boston.  Revere is not his original name, just the name an immigration official gave his grandfather when the real name was too hard to pronounce, but the new name gives him a nice ring of credibility in the art world.  Ben becomes embroiled in a world-hopping search for a killer when a supposedly lost painting appears in the pawn shop of a friend.  The painting gets the friend killed; Ben is badly beaten and sets out to discover the truth and bring the killer to justice. <br /> Along the way we learn a little art history, get to know a bit about Nazi looting during World War II and are treated to a good-sized dose of Aaron Elkins' trademark wit.  It's a fun romp through Eastern Europe and the mystery itself is engaging enough to keep the reader interested, if not on the edge of his seat. <br /> One thing I had trouble with was Ben's relationship with Alex, the grandniece of his friend, Simeon, the murdered pawnshop owner.  Both Ben and Alex appear to be carrying a lot of baggage around, along with a sizable chip on each shoulder, so their time together acts as an irritant, rather than a slowly warming love story.  When they finally do get together (oh, stop it.  I'm not giving anything away here)it is unbelievable and, for this reader, distressing, since we know that, without the benefit of years of therapy, these two will eventually nag each other into early graves. <br /> Revere himself is a likeable guy and Elkins takes pains to write him as a regular, unpretentious joe who doesn't get sucked into snootiness, even though a jets around the world like he was grabbing a crosstown bus and earns a thousand a day in consulting fees (sometimes).  But I have to wonder where it will stop - Elkins now has four potential series' going now, with the Gideon Oliver, Chris Norgren, Ben and Lee Ofstead, about whom he writes with his wife, Charlotte.  Lordy.  And some people are lucky to keep one series going.   <br /> Nonetheless, I guarantee I've never read an Elkins book I didn't like, no matter who the protagonist was.	2000-10-06
US	53069821	R2TN918NFNUVTN	0609602934	59736501	The Descent: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Not Your Run-of-the-Mill &quot;Hell is Real&quot; Novel	&quot;The Descent&quot; was not exactly what I expected.  Whichis a good thing - I hate figuring it all out before the end andwondering why the heck I spent [good money] on a book I could haveplotted myself.  Based on the book jacket and comments by otherreaders, I expected a morality play in an &quot;Us vs. Them&quot;wrapper.  I expected to learn that, for all their hideous appearance,the underground dwellers, called Hadals, were not so bad and that manwas the true beast.  Well, I didn't.  What I found instead was arollicking adventure filled with monsters, villains (both Hadal andhuman), and terrific suspense.  Surprisingly, I also found a prettyinteresting romance between a nun travelling the underworld and thedisfigured former prisoner who guides her and her party through thedepths.<br /> The story is ambitious: humans finally become aware of thetribes of Hadals who have lived beneath our feet for millenia.  To beexpected, our response to this knowledge is to hunt the hadals toextinction and colonize the underworld.  Before this goal can beaccomplished, we first send an exploration team to map the interiorworld.  Meanwhile, a team of scientists and philosophers hunt thecritter known to us as &quot;Satan&quot;, in the hope that we cansomehow bridge the species gap.<br /> The ultimate decimation of theexploration team is inevitable and consumes a good portion of thebook, but at no time do you get the impression that Long is slackingin his storytelling.  Something interesting is always going on and weare pulled mesmerically through the tale.  The love affair thateventually develops between Ike, the guide who had been held as aHadal prisoner for decades, and Ali, a nun sent to spy on theexplorers' progress, develops slowly and carefully and eventuallymakes sense.<br /> If I were forced to point out a negative, it would beonly that Long had so many ideas about the Hadals that he was neverreally clear on what they were.  They are variously described asbatlike, simianor amphibious.  I know enough about evolution to knowthat so many varieties couldn't have come from a common ancestor, soit distracted me from the rest of the tale.  But that's minor.  It'snitpicking.  And it doesn't give Jeff Long the praise he deserves forthis wonderful novel.	2000-09-28
US	53069821	RVEKM537UQDSW	0393047687	702632205	Yellow Jack: A Novel	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Wonderful First Effort	Reading &quot;Yellow Jack&quot;, Josh Russel's first novel, is like watching a little-leaguer pick up a bat on the first day and knock his first pitch out of the park.  You are left standing in stunned amazement.  &quot;Holy crud,&quot; you say to yourself, &quot;how did he do that?&quot;  The amazement comes from the fact that the little tyke, with no training or form, has yet achieved perfection.  Likewise, Russell has created a thing of beauty his first time out.<br /> The story contained within the covers is almost incidental, as is the title.  Certainly, there are plenty of scenes involving the various yellow fever epidemics that raged through New Orleans during the 19th century, but that is not what this book is about.  Certainly, there is a plot, concerning Claude Marchand, fictional assistant to Daguerre, and his journey to New Orleans and his tribulations while trying to arrange marriage with his true love, but that is not what this book is about.<br /> Instead, this book is about the nature of identity and reality.  It is about how, with the right PR, a man might sell himself as a genius, when he is truly a petty thief.  Or how a young girl from a good family might seem saintly when she is, in fact, depraved.  This book is about how history can get it all wrong and build legends, even when there is documentary evidence, such as photographs, left for posterity.  It is about the way we convince ourselves of things, even when those things are contrary to the truth.<br /> Russell underscores the theme by having Claude use his soliographic talents to destroy a politician at the behest of a rival by presenting a truth out-of-context.<br /> Granted, these ideas are not new.  They are handled gently here, but masterfully, through various storyteller's tricks: an unnamed academic's descriptions of Claude Marchand's existing photographic plates, Claude's first-person account of the creation of those plates and diary entries made by Claude's octaroon mistress, Millicent, whose version of events sometimes differs.<br /> The language throughout is hushed and magical and though there is much violence, death and tragedy, the tone does not take the bait and become violent itself.  Layers of poetry reveal themselves throughout and Russell occasionally scores with phrases that continue to echo.<br /> Certainly, there are negatives.  I didn't like any of the characters and was not saddened as they slowly succumbed, one by one, to the yellow fever epidemics, though Millicent emerges as the only character with any strength.  But that doesn't alter the fact that she is still a pouting, manipulative person.<br /> The tactic of telling the story through various narrators leaves one feeling that the author is re-mining old ground.  But the overall effect is marvelous and well worth reading.ent, whose version of events sometimes differs.<br /> The language throughout is hushed and magical and though there is much violence, death and tragedy, the tone does not take the bait and become violent itself.  Layers of poetry reveal themselves throughout and Russell occasionally scores with phrases that continue to echo.<br /> Certainly, there are negatives.  I didn't like any of the characters and was not saddened as they slowly succumbed, one by one, to the yellow fever epidemics, though Millicent emerges as the only character with any strength.  But that doesn't alter the fact that she is still a pouting, manipulative person.<br /> The tactic of telling the story through various narrators leaves one feeling that the author is re-mining old ground.  But the overall effect is marvelous and well worth reading.	2000-09-26
US	53069821	R10HIIC8KRYYBW	0964060574	450425657	More Mouse Tales: A Closer Peek Backstage at Disneyland	Books	3	27	38	N	N	Dark Days in Disneyland	Disneyland must be a very depressing place to work.  At least that's the impression I get from reading &quot;More Mouse Tales&quot;, David Koenig's followup to his earlier, lighthearted, much more fun &quot;Mouse Tales&quot;.  Apparently, having depleted his store of lighthearted anecdotes, Koenig has turned to tales told by disgruntled former employees who cannot accept the fact that Disneyland is run by a corporation and is no longer the spiritual child of founder &quot;Uncle Walt&quot;.<br /> Any number of Disney hatchet jobs exist, even a monograph by journalist and novelist Carl Hiassen, and I know where to go if I want to read one of these anti-Disney tracts.  In fact, I often do, just to gain a wider perspective; I am a Disney fan, but I keep my eyes open and my sense of reality polished.<br /> I was not expecting such a negative and depressing experience from reading this book however.  Koenig focuses on tragedy, corruption, poor management and high prices here and only barely lets the reader up for air.  No story is too sordid, no hearsay is too circumstancial to be included in &quot;More Mouse Tales&quot;.  Ironically, Koenig points out in his introduction that the sales of his earlier book and the resurgence in Disneyland attendance roughly coincided (don't be fooled, the comparison is bad science and bad mathematics) and, noting the recent poor attendance, suggests that maybe it's time for him to lend his assistance once again.  Ladies and gentlemen, if this book is David Koenig's idea of assistance, don't ever let him change a flat tire for you.<br /> If you have a clear head and don't automatically leap onto a pro-Disney soapbox whenever someone criticizes, you may still enjoy this book.  It includes plenty of insider info and lots of diagrams of beloved attractions.  If you are a Disney-hater, you'll love it.	2000-09-26
US	53069821	R2UQCC7B5X2EN8	0684854627	660996143	Come Hither: A Commonsense Guide To Kinky Sex	Books	3	29	42	N	N	For Beginners Only	My first and only complaint: this book is subtitled &quot;A Commonsense  Guide to Kinky Sex&quot; and there is very little information on kinky sex  to be found outside of the BDSM arena.  Frankly, in my opinion, Bondage  &amp; Domination is probably the LEAST kinky sex there is.   <br /> That said,  this little book should come in handy for beginners who think they are  freaks for wanting to be spanked.  There's plenty of commonsense  information about the practical side of tying people up and what to do once  they are tied.  Lots of questions from &quot;real&quot; people and lots of  anecdotal evidence.  Overall, it's a fine little book for helping people  get on the right side of their alternate sexuality.   <br /> Along with some  clever marketing (a too cute cover) and a charming title, this will  probably be the book that people select over a more clinical-sounding book,  like &quot;The Bondage Handbook&quot;, or something.  The information is no  different, no better and no more insightful; Gloria Brame just has a better  friend in the publicity department.	2000-09-13
US	53069821	R3S8AJ04RGZXAQ	0380725258	377380120	Skylar in Yankeeland: A Mystery	Books	3	2	2	N	N	More of the Same	I just finished &quot;Skylar in Yankeeland&quot; and wasn't overly  impressed. Certainly, it was better than &quot;Skylar&quot;, but that's  like saying Cheez in a Can is better than those Cracker Barrel fake cheddar  sticks. Neither one really takes the blue ribbon, but at least you can  squeeze Cheez in a Can directly into your mouth, without having to waste  time cutting it.  <br /> In &quot;Skylar&quot;, yankee cousin Jonathan  Whitfield is a fish out of water when he comes south for a visit. In this  installment, MacDonald turns the tables and has good ol' boy Skylar venture  north to visit the very rich Whitfields, where he is, yes, a fish out of  water. The family jewels are heisted, a young lady is murdered and general  hilarity ensues. Or doesn't.  <br /> As a reader, I never like easy jokes. I  figure the reason I'm paying to read an author's book is because he or she  is much cleverer than I and will say things that I haven't already thought  or write things that aren't cliches and because of this, I am increasingly  saddened by Gregory MacDonald's descent into mediocrity. None of the  characters here are much better than stereotypes and the situations they  encounter are downright unlikely. Add to that the fact that one of the  characters, a Boston blue blood since before the revolution, makes a  personality change likely to cause a whiplash in anyone paying even the  most casual attention and you have a book that is unlikely to win MacDonald  any new fans.	2000-09-13
US	53069821	RK8VJ0NQRJKAU	0345382315	298744764	The PMS Outlaws: An Elizabeth MacPherson Novel	Books	3	31	34	N	N	NOT an Elizabeth MacPherson Novel	Once upon a time, there was a mystery writer named Sharyn McCrumb, who  wrote wonderfully quirky tales about a woman named Elizabeth MacPherson.   Elizabeth was funny and charming and a student of fornesic anthropology,  then a field exclusively for women.  Elizabth's adventures were made more  entertaining by appearances from her extended, Southern family, most of  whom were eccentric, some of whom were downright mad. <br /> As often happens  with series mystery writers, McCrumb became tired of Elizabeth and tried to  make her more interesting by killing her husband, which served only to send  Elizabeth spiralling into a deep blue funk, where she remained for many  unamusing years.  <br /> In the mean time, McCrumb began writing a new series,  set in the Appalachian and Smoky Mountains.  These were well-received, both  by critics and readers, so Elizabeth and her family were shunned, relegated  to the bottom of the idea-heap, revived only when McCrumb had something to  say that was not suited to her new darlings. <br /> From time to time, McCrumb  trots out the MacPherson family, but the focus now is on brother Bill who  has started his own law practice with partner A.P. Hill, a tough female  attorney.  Elizabeth still appears, but in a secondary role, which is odd,  because the books are generally subtitled, &quot;An Elizabeth MacPherson  Novel&quot;, not &quot;A Bill MacPherson and A.P. Hill Novel&quot;. <br /> In  &quot;The PMS Outlaws&quot;, Bill buys an old house that comes equipped  with its own creepy old man and A.P. Hill becomes interested in &quot;The  PMS Outlaws&quot;, who seduce and rob sexist pigs, then chain them naked in  public places.  Not only is one of the outlaws a former schoolmate of  Hill's, she has stolen Hill's name, too!  Finally, Elizabeth has checked  herself into a mental institution to see if she can (finally) come to terms  with her husband's death. <br /> I can't deny that the writing here is amusing  and engaging - I read the wholebook in a single sitting.  And I do like  Bill and AP as characters.  But I miss the old Elizabeth and I pine for the  days when McCrumb wrote mysteries, not hastily-written bits of Southern  gothic.  This is a good read and a fine novel.  It's just not &quot;an  Elizabeth MacPherson novel&quot;.	2000-09-06
US	53069821	R2QBA4KA86FLMJ	0684853485	386878605	Pelikan	Books	5	14	14	N	N	A Breathtaking Love-Hate Novel About New Orleans	I seem to be in the minority here, not being a relative of David Lozell Martin's.  For the record, I am sceptical of writers whose review pages are  salted liberally with glowing reviews written by relatives, their  publishers and/or a huge number of reviews written by &quot;A Reader&quot;  (these are often written by the author himself, in the hope of bolstering  sales or acceptance.  I don't necessarily think that is the case here  (since the positive reviews are so...oddly...written), but I thought I  would let you know where I was coming from, since two of the reviews here  were written by Martin's sister and niece. <br /> Now, on with the real  review. <br /> &quot;Pelikan&quot; is a novel about a man named Charlie Curtis  who has been poisoned by his own lack of ambition, which he blames on a  betrayal by his uncle.  No, wait.  &quot;Pelikan&quot; is a novel about  James Joseph Pelikan, an evil, violent pimp and junkie who sleeps with his  nephew's girlfriend, breaks his nephew's finger and ties birds to a  christmas tree and refuses to allow anyone to help them as they flutter  madly, trying to escape, breaking wings and legs.  Um, wait.   &quot;Pelikan&quot; is a novel about James Joseph Pelikan, the self-styled  &quot;King of the French Quarter&quot;, who takes the wounded under his  wing, rights wrongs and settles disputes, undertakes a dangerous mission on  behalf of a distant religious order, and physically washes and purifies an  old bum as Christ might have done, all without thought of his own reward.   Um, no.  It's about clowns.  I mean, nuns who plan a heist.   <br /> Aw, hell.   It's about all these things, but really it's about a ragged old gal called  the vieux carre who has seen better days, but still paints herself up for  the tourists and makes a go of it. <br /> This is the first novel I have read  by David Lozell Martin and I confess to being confounded and amazed.  His  prose seems effortless, oddly beautiful, even when describing horriblerealities like death, homelessness, betrayal and cruelty.  Perhaps his most  amazing feat is his description of Hurricane Emily as almost human,  flinging herself across hundreds of miles to die in the arms of the French  Quarter, like a tragic lover.  I was spellbound through the entire novel,  but the last hundred pages kept me rooted to my chair, turning pages  automatically. <br /> This is also a novel of comic madness, reminiscent of  Carl Hiassen's Floridian cycle, easily as insane as Toole's  &quot;Confederacy of Dunces&quot;.  I laughed at least every other page,  and I am not someone who laughs out loud at books.   <br /> The city of New  Orleans, specifically the French Quarter, makes a grand showing here;  Martin describes her in brutally honest terms that may frighten those who  have never visited or cause those of us who love her wince.  But it is  obvious that Martin, too, is in love with her, just not too blind to see  her as she truly is. <br /> The &quot;Felony Theft&quot; of the subtitle seems  thrown in almost as an afterthought - the book would have been just as good  without it. <br /> I wish I could give this book higher marks, but &quot;Five  Stars&quot; is all they'll allow.  Pity.	2000-09-04
US	53069821	R3QNSZ4VOHE49U	0679745203	152918541	The English Patient	Books	4	23	26	N	N	A Marvelous Book, in which, Nothing Happens	The cover copy of my version of &quot;The English Patient&quot; indicates that the book within is &quot;A rare and spellbinding web of dreams.&quot;   Even though I'm not sure what that means, strangely, I agree.  Ondaatje's  language is lyrical enough to transport one to his dream world, a world of  half-glimpsed comprehension, passion and sensuality.  His descriptions of  the world he has created are certainly dream-like; when the English Patient  first emerges from the wrecked plane, he is afire, his headed sporting  &quot;antlers of flame&quot;.  From that moment, I belonged to Ondaatje.  <br /> Narrative is an important part of a novel.  But if you like yours  linear, you will be disappointed here.  &quot;The English Patient&quot;  flashes backwards and back to the present, rarely giving one warning or  even a way to tell where we are, chronologically.  It is a quilt of a book,  much like the patient's copy of Herodotus' &quot;The Histories&quot;, which  has been woven from the original text and additional maps, notes &amp;  drawings.  It is at once what it appears to be and something different,  something organic, alive and changing with us as we read it. <br /> Most of  the characters are fascinating.  Caravaggio, the thumbless thief, who,  naked, once stole a photograph of himself from the woman who took it.  Kip,  the Sikh &quot;sapper&quot;, or demolitions expert, who spends his days  communing with the bombs that surround their villa.  Hana, the nurse, who  finds solace and support in books, to the point of rebuilding a portion of  the staircase by nailing heavy books in place (If that isn't an incredible  metaphor, I don't know what is). <br /> Then there is the patient himself,  burnt black, quietly awaiting death and reflecting on its nature.  For much  of the novel, we don't know who he is, except a reminder of death and  betrayal.  This is barely his story at all; he is merely a catalyst.   Without him, we have the idea that the other three would never have come  together,would never have discovered their identities. <br /> For that's what  this book is, an examination of the nature of identity.  Who are we, when  the lights are out?  Is it only the presence of other people that makes us  who we are?  Michael Ondaatje isn't telling, rather, he leaves it up to us.	2000-08-31
US	53069821	R5V2UU3BRFRXW	1890768049	418265371	Satan's Silence: The Second Cassidy McCabe Mystery	Books	1	5	12	N	N	How Bad Does Your Writing Have to be...	before they take your typewriter away? <br /> I am confused and unsettled by  the tide of opinion that rises against me regarding this novel.  It is  easily one of the bottom ten worst books I have ever read.  The writing was  worse than amateurish.  The characters, all of them, were unlikeable, but  especially Cassidy, who is a dwid of the first order.  The plot was ripped  directly from yesterday's news , long after authentic Satanism and  recovered memories were generally accepted to be overrated phenomena by the  pyschiatric community. <br /> And yet.  And yet.  I read all these positive  reviews and I can't help but wonder:  am I the one who's wrong here?   <br />  Nah.	2000-08-30
US	53069821	R19PVLMHEBIJQF	0930330552	893277076	The Alfred Hitchcock Murder Case	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Close, But No Cigar...	George Baxt has carved out an interesting niche in the mystery world, from the gay-themed Pharaoh Love series to the Celebrity series, which takes names like Dorothy Parker, Humphrey Bogart, Bette Davis and, of course, Alfred Hitchcock, and weaves them into mystery plots as amateur detectives. <br />Because I like fictional versions of real people in my books, I was bound to come across Baxt at some point. For the most part, I can say I'm glad I did. His mysteries are usually entertaining and very funny, which works with an original character, like Pharaoh Love, or even with a character like Dorothy Parker, who you expect to be funny. <br />But here we have Alfred Hitchcock, who had a wicked on-set sense of humor. But Baxt's portrayal here seems false somehow - Hitch and his wife Alma become embroiled in a plot that seems to come directly from one of Hitchcock's movies. It's complex and wry and gives one the impression that everyone knows what's going on but the hero (a staple of several of Hitch's spy movies). Many people die throughout the story and Alma & Hitch giggle through it all as though they were Nick and Nora Charles. But that isn't the problem. <br />I'm okay with humorous mysteries. I'm okay with detectives who laugh in the face of death. But I'm afraid I wasn't prepared for Alfred Hitchcock laughing in the face of death. I suspect this is a failing of my own, but I didn't get the feeling that the characters were well-researched or portrayed effectively. <br /> One thing I did like was the \\"Dain Curse\\"-like plotting that stretched the story over several years.	2000-08-29
US	53069821	R1V5XMMPUR7WAY	0395530083	782031575	Bigger Secrets: More Than 125 Things They Prayed You'd Never Find Out	Books	4	19	23	N	N	Bigger and Better	You probably have not read my review of &quot;Big Secrets&quot;, so you  have no idea of my absolute disdain for that work.  So the fact that I have  pumped my opinion of this one up to four stars probably will not shock you  at all.  <br /> It's obvious that Poundstone has learned since releasing  &quot;Big Secrets&quot;.  He's learned to tell a better story, learned to  create suspense, learned what information is utterly useless dreck and what  is genuinely entertaining.  Both he and the reader benefit from this a  great deal. <br /> He's still making wildly speculative guesses about food  contents, but here we get a nice tale about how he went about obtaining a  sample of Oysters Rockefeller and sent it to a lab.  He's still giving away  magicians' secrets, but now we are amused by the little backstory he gives  his investigation.  Overall, this book is better written and is a better  read. <br /> One complaint I still have is Poundstone's attitude.  His tone is  snotty throughout the book; he is critical of people who don't know enough  to dress for Antoine's restaurant, of Disneyland, of magicians in general.   Rather than revel in the fun of discovery and slyly let you in on the joke,  he uses his words to puncture secrets and deflate them, like an evil older  brother spilling the beans about Santa Claus. If you are a fan of  Disneyland's Haunted Mansion, his expose' will seem particularly harsh. <br />  &quot;Secrets&quot; is fun and will definitely entertain you.  I hope the  author continues to learn and grow with each book.  If so, I look forward  to &quot;Biggest Secrets&quot;	2000-08-26
US	53069821	R19IS1GZHUNY5O	0395530083	782031575	Bigger Secrets: More Than 125 Things They Prayed You'd Never Find Out	Books	3	9	18	N	N	Bigger and Better	You probably have not read my review of &quot;Big Secrets&quot;, so you  have no idea of my absolute disdain for that work.  So the fact that I have  pumped my opinion of this one up to three stars probably will not shock you  at all.  <br /> It's obvious that Poundstone has learned since releasing  &quot;Big Secrets&quot;.  He's learned to tell a better story, learned to  create suspense, learned what information is utterly useless dreck and what  is genuinely entertaining.  Both he and the reader benefit from this a  great deal. <br /> He's still making wildly speculative guesses about food  contents, but here we get a nice tale about how he went about obtaining a  sample of Oysters Rockefeller and sent it to a lab.  He's still giving away  magicians' secrets, but now we are amused by the little backstory he gives  his investigation.  Overall, this book is better written and is a better  read. <br /> One complaint I still have is Poundstone's attitude.  His tone is  snotty throughout the book; he is critical of people who don't know enough  to dress for Antoine's restaurant, of Disneyland, of magicians in general.   Rather than revel in the fun of discovery and slyly let you in on the joke,  he uses his words to puncture secrets and deflate them, like an evil older  brother spilling the beans about Santa Claus. If you are a fan of  Disneyland's Haunted Mansion, his expose' will seem particularly harsh. <br />  &quot;Secrets&quot; is fun and will definitely entertain you.  I hope the  author continues to learn and grow with each book.  If so, I look forward  to &quot;Biggest Secrets&quot;	2000-08-26
US	53069821	RAXN3A2IMYWMA	0312962576	406625866	Louisiana Fever: An Andy Broussard/Kit Franklin Mystery (Andy Broussard/Kit Franklyn Mysteries)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Why Haven't You Read Broussard &amp; Franklyn Yet?	In this installment of the Kit Franklin/Andy Broussard Mystery Series,  Andy's hash is in the deep-fat fryer and it's up to Kit to save him.  The  only problem is that Kit's been kidnaped. <br /> Add to that the deepening  mysteries surrounding Kit's origins, romance trouble and a deadly virus,  and you get a rich mystery steeped in medical examiner lore and true human  feelings. <br /> I appreciate the author's no-nonsense writing style and his  quirky, but not over-the-top, cast of characters.  Of late, the New Orleans  Mystery has become a cliche, riddled with parades, politics, French Quarter  dining and Bourbon Street debauchery.  Donaldson eschews the gimmicks and  serves up sensible, well-written stories using New Orleans, a city he  obviously loves, almost as a character.  Donaldson's mysteries feel like  real life (albeit a life I wouldn't want to live) and his characters feel  like people who live there, instead of tourists. <br /> Donaldson seems to  have stopped writing the Broussard/Franklin mysteries (he's now writing  medical thrillers as Don Donaldson) so you can be sad that it's all over or  be thrilled that this is a series you can read, start to finish, without  having to wait for some slow-poke writer to release the next installment.   Give it a try...you'll like it.	2000-08-22
US	53069821	R2U25R0LW6JEV6	0312966814	748226451	Sleeping With the Crawfish (A St. Martin's dead letter mystery)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	More Broussard &amp; Franklin Please!	I have been reading DJ Donaldson's Kit Franklin &amp; Andy Broussard mysteries since &quot;Cajun Nights&quot;.  I thought that first book would  be a goof, a good-natured, silly mystery written by a hack - the cover was  cheesy, the premise unlikely and the publisher was the dubious St. Martin  Press, using their now-defunct &quot;Mean Streets&quot; imprint.  But I  bought it because I love New Orleans and I collect books set there.  I was  pleasantly surprised then, finding that the book was clever, well-written  and worthy of a much better publisher. <br /> It's been about ten years since  then and I'm still reading.  The writing has improved, the characters have  matured and reading a new Donaldson book feels like going home to visit old  friends.  In this installment, Kit has left the Medical Examiner's office  after having been kidnaped and nearly losing her mentor Andy to a deadly  virus.  Andy, in an attempt to bolster her spirits, cons her into doing one  final task for the ME's office - go check out the fingerprints of a prison  inmate.  Oddly, the prints were discovered at a recent crime scene, which  should be impossible. <br /> Next thing you know, Kit has been run off the  road, chased, threatened and generally taken for a ride.  The twists and  turns are both interesting and exciting, and it's nice to watch Kit get her  confidence back, even though it means she makes some truly stupid mistakes.  <br /> As usual, Donaldson's writing is crisp and clean, with no nonsense or  purple prose.  His evocation of the Louisiana swamps is every bit as lovely  and sinister as James Lee Burkes, without being as cloying and flowery.  I  recommend these and other Broussard/Franklin books.	2000-08-22
US	53069821	R36J2ZQH9DD2IM	0375404929	785389269	For the Relief of Unbearable Urges: Stories	Books	4	18	21	N	N	Bet You Can't Eat Just One	A book.  You are first drawn by the intriguing title, then you notice that some of the letters are smudged, as though tear-stained.  Did you somehow  spill water on the cover?  No, the dust jacket is designed that way, to  remind us that sometimes relief comes in the form of tears, sometimes in  sexual release, sometimes in death. <br /> The inside of the dust jacket is  misleading - the title story, &quot;For the Relief of Unbearable  Urges&quot;, is called &quot;hilarious&quot;.  Despite this, the praise is  flowing (and you don't know differently, anyhow) and you are drawn into the  stories between the covers.  What do you find? <br /> Writing that is  masterful, but misdirected.  A voice that is shockingly mature, incongruous  with the photograph of the handsome boy on the cover.  Stories that are  obsessed with persecution, whether by the government or by loved ones or by  one's peers or one's church.  Few of the characters within these pages are  unencumbered by expectation, by disappointment, by disillusionment. <br /> You  search the book for the &quot;hilarious&quot; story foretold and find the  sad, pathetic tale of a man sexually rebuffed by his wife and given a  special dispensation by his Rabbi to visit a prostitute &quot;for the  relief of unbearable urges&quot;.  The result turns the tables on the poor  fellow, but is not amusing.  You continue reading; the last story, &quot;In  This Way We are Wise&quot;, contains the poetic, oddly beautiful,  ruminations of a bomb-blast survivor and his sorrow at having lived.  You  are illuminated by the beauty of the prose, you are destroyed by its  message. <br /> You may enjoy reading about the Jewish experience, writers  such as Roth, Singer, Bellow.  Depending upon your focus you may read quite  a bit of this literature or perhaps only a smattering in the New Yorker.   You find that Englander glazes his prose with Judaica to the point that  everything here is deeply flavored with it, so no matter how much or how  little you read, you taste the culture of the Jewish people, whether they  be modern Jews in Israel or Holocaust-era Jews in Poland.  <br /> You walk  away enlightened, impressed, but perhaps a little depressed, too.	2000-08-14
US	53069821	RD6QZMM3R2N9S	1565540581	261773765	New Orleans on the Half-Shell: A Native's Guide to the Crescent City	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Great Guide to a Great City	This book is probably of most use to the seasoned New Orleans traveler, as  it deals with the city from the perspective of a native telling you the  best places to go.  Think about it - would a New Yorker send you to Tavern  on the Green or to their favorite local hangout?  Would a San Franciscan  send you to Ma Maison or to a hole-in-the-wall sandwiched between a Chinese  grocery and a laundromat?  Well, &quot;New Orleans on the Half-Shell&quot;  is no different; local, unknown places take the front seat here, leaving  the touristy places to the other guides. <br /> This is not to say that there  is no consideration for the casual tourist here.  You'll get all the  information you need from this slim volume, from shopping to dining, tours  to bar-hopping.  But I'd recommend that you use this particular guide in  conjunction with another, more complete guide, specifically the terrific  Insight guide that doubles as a history book and cultural primary. <br /> On a  personal note, I found my favorite restaurant in all the world in &quot;New  Orleans on the Half Shell&quot;, a place not mentioned in any other  guidebook.  I won't tell you where it is; you'll have to read it yourself  to find it.	2000-08-11
US	53069821	R3EUU9CJWWOAM3	0425174018	398480832	Hush Money (Spenser)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Spenser Still Smug; Hawk Still Hawk; Susan Still a Pain	It's obvious that Robert B. Parker still enjoys idolizing himself as private-eye Spenser.  The books are still witty, the characters still  engaging and, since the flabby &quot;Crimson Joy&quot; a decade ago, the  cases are still implausible. <br /> Neither of the two pro bono cases that  Spenser takes in this new offering make a lick of sense.  The first, the  case of a University instructor denied tenure due to some trumped-up  speculation about his sexuality, could have been solved in the first thirty  pages if Spenser had just asked the right questions.  Instead, he and the  prof do a little danse a macho, each trying to show that he is the more  righteous of the two.   <br />In the second case, a stalker hunts a whiny  divorcee.  Since there are only two suspects, the wrapup is a piece of  cake.  If only the divorcee didn't fall madly in love with Spenser, as all  women seem to do!  Oh, woe is Spenser!  What a terrible lot is his life.   He'll have to find a way to let her down easy in that peculiarly ethical  way that only Spenser has. <br /> In both cases, the path down which our hero  is led is completely insane, acceptable only within the pages of a Spenser  novel.  I seem to spend more time smacking my forehead in disbelief than  actually reading these books anymore.  However, the interplay between Hawk  and Spenser is still amusing, and I occasionally laugh aloud.  Susan has  become an irritation and should probably be killed off; her relationship  with Spenser weakens him considerably.  Oddly, Parker is at his best when  he writes about how Spenser feels about her when they are apart, not about  when the two are actually together. <br /> So, if I didn't enjoy the book, why  give it fours stars?  Well, oddly, I did enjoy it.  I read it on a plane  and it made the time pass.  I always enjoy the dialog.  And I am still  willing to let Parker skate on the good memories of when he was a top-notch  crime writer. <br /> If you like Parker, you'll like &quot;Hush Money&quot;.   If this is your first journey down this path, you may find it a little  sugary - you may want to start from &quot;The Godwulf Manuscript&quot; and  work your way up...	2000-08-11
US	53069821	R1ES4DSJIGPLCZ	0688048307	664758959	Big Secrets	Books	3	47	71	N	N	The Real &quot;Big Secret&quot;?  You Probably Paid Too Much.	This book should have been subtitled &quot;Uncensored Speculation About  All Sorts of Stuff You Are Never Supposed to Know&quot;.  I'm all for books  that blow the whistle on supposedly secret things that should be public  knowledge.  I enjoy reading fun facts, esoteric trivia and &quot;How do  they do that?&quot; kinds of books. <br /> &quot;Big Secrets&quot; however,  was pretty much a letdown.  The section on foodstuffs was pure speculation.   Poundstone had various samples of foods like KFC's coating, Coca-Cola and  Dr. Pepper sent to labs for analysis and lists their &quot;probable&quot;  ingredients.  While this is interesting, it is not necessarily a revelation  of a big secret.  I can make wild guesses based on bad science, too.  Maybe  I'm just bitter because I didn't think of compiling my guesses into a book  and selling it to rubes for ten bucks. <br /> But I digress. <br /> Poundstone  provides a section titled &quot;Pay No Attention to the Man Behind the  Curtain&quot;, which gives explanations for various magic tricks, most of  which have become common knowledge since Fox's Masked Magician blew the  whistle a couple of years ago, but we have to give the author credit for  doing it first.  Most people don't know that there are magician's trade  magazines (just as there are carpenter's and car enthusiast's trade  magazines) that you can buy at any well-stocked bookstore.  Within the  pages of these magazines you will find much of the same information  included here, as well as advertisements for catalogs that will sell you  any of the same tricks and kits for building many of the setups.  No big  secret, really, for anyone who takes the time to find it. <br /> In a chapter  called &quot;Alice, Let's Cheat&quot;, Poundstone tells us how to master an  eyechart, the Rorschach Inkblot Test and a Lie Detector.  Now, while I can  imagine information on the lie detector test being useful if I am ever  charged with murder, I cannot even speculate on why someonewould want to  go to an optometrist's office and walk out with the wrong precription  because they chose to use the secret knowledge gained from this book.  Nor  do I understand why someone would pay a psychiatrist big bucks to give them  misleading information on the inkblot test.  If you are the type of person  to lie on a test of this kind during an employment interview, then all I  can say is &quot;good luck to you.&quot; <br /> So.  These are the &quot;Big  Secrets&quot; William Poundstone reveals to us.  While I cannot confess to  being even slightly edified or better off for having read this book, I will  say that it makes the time pass on an airplane very quickly, so it is of  some use.  The writing is entertaining, if snide, and people who are not  inclined to open their eyes and observe the world around them will be  educated and amused.	2000-08-11
US	53069821	R3IFK0XXR1LL0Y	0028624424	614266851	Frommer's Irreverent Guide to New Orleans (2nd Ed)	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Nothing Irreverent About It...	While this is a perfectly adequate guidebook (it will give you the address  for Brennan's, the current room rate for the Maison Dupuy and the phone  number to call for a Swamp Tour), it does itself a disservice by claiming  to be irreverent.  There is nothing even faintly irreverent about this  book.  It's basically cribbed from Frommer's non-irreverent guides, thereby  shorter and less informative.	2000-08-11
US	53069821	RGPODVNWNHE8F	0887290299	11823557	Insight Guide New Orleans (Insight City Guides)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	The Best of a Dull Bunch	Wow!  This is easily the best guidebook to New Orleans you'll ever find.   Filled with rich detail concerning the city's history, cuisine and customs,  you'll find yourself reading it for entertainment, not just in preparation  for your trip. <br /> I've read pretty much all of the guides available,  because NOLA is my favorite place on earth, and this is the only one that  comes even close to capturing its mysterious spirit.	2000-08-11
US	53069821	R2DJZW8VQFUVW4	0679444815	786105285	Timeline	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Living Worse Through Bad Science	I admit to being a Michael Crichton devotee, even down to locating, purchasing and reading all of the bad thrillers he wrote as &quot;John  Lange&quot;, so there's not much he could do to disappoint me.  Just so you  know where I'm coming from. <br /> Crichton offers us here another example of  his &quot;Living Worse Through Bad Science&quot; chronicles, each of which  shows how, through the judicious bending of physical laws and accepted  fact, things can blow up in our collective faces, or at least the faces of  an intrepid band of unfortunate travelers (or and intrepid loner with  powerful, if anonymous, friends, as the case may be).  &quot;Timeline&quot;  is an engaging thriller that offers not much of value to the Crichton  oeuvre, but will give you at least one sleepless night as you race with the  time travelers to the conclusion. <br /> I read the book in a single evening,  so my single bone of contention here is that the book was money wasted.  I  can spend nine bucks to see a three hour movie, or $23 to read this novel  in three hours; I'd rather Crichton beefed up his novels a tad and  stretched my entertainment dollar for me. <br /> The plot isn't too demanding;  a group of grad students is sent to a parallel universe, only further back  in time, to rescue a missing historian.  There are complications, bad guys,  and a tight schedule with which to contend, and along the way Crichton  regales us with facts he has gleaned from a library of books, the  bibliography for which he has thoughtfully provided in the back.  I am  always grateful to read the distillation of someone else's education; it  saves me having to read all those tedious books myself. <br /> If you like  Crichton's formula, you'll like this book.  If &quot;Jurassic Park&quot;  annoyed you, you'll be annoyed here, too. <br /> Happy reading.	2000-08-11
US	53069821	ROUB42VJWWK9W	0929480805	56079796	The Hunger and Ecstasy of Vampires: A Novel	Books	2	3	5	N	N	The Loquaciousness and Somnabulence of Vampires	Having just come down off a Kim Newman &quot;Anno Dracula&quot; high, I was hungry for another fix and Stableford's &quot;Hunger &amp;  Ecstacy&quot; seemed just the thing - a vampire novel balanced in the  dimension between history and fiction, featuring H. G. Wells, Count  Dracula, Nikolai Tesla, Holmes &amp; Watson (albeit incognito). <br /> What a  letdown.  I cannot imagine how any writer could come up with a great idea,  a great cast of characters and what may be the richest period of history  in...well, history...and still write a big, flopping catfish of a novel  like this one.  There is no action here - everyone sits around a table and  yacks it up with the fictional Dr. Copplestone, an apparent drug-abuser,  who manages to hallucinate the future of mankind through the judicious  ingestion of a few magic mushrooms. <br /> Rather than dismiss the old coot  for the lunatic he is, the round-table of genius contemporaries actually  sit and ruminate and philosophize and generally enable the good doctor.   What eventually unspools is one of the dullest narratives since Silas  Marner. <br />	2000-08-04
US	53069821	R338Q3DBX55G03	0224018221	482927222	Duffy	Books	4	28	28	N	N	Julian Barnes Goes Disturbingly Gritty	My only experience with Julian Barnes is &quot;Flaubert's Parrot&quot;, an exhilarating novel-like book concerning the author's fascination with  Gustave Flaubert, in general and, specifically, &quot;Madame Bovary&quot;.   It is written in jarringly disparate styles and in a soaring language that  requires no less than your absolute attention and devotion.   <br /> Then  there's &quot;Duffy&quot;.   <br /> Written pseudonymously, &quot;Duffy&quot;  is a crime novel more than a mystery, in which the titular character is  drawn into the web of a Soho crime lord at the request of a minor criminal  who masquerades as a legitimate businessman.  The language here is a polar  opposite of the highfalutin' text of &quot;Flaubert's Parrot&quot; -  Duffy's world is one populated by pimps, prostitutes and porn-kings, and  the dialog is highly-seasoned with slang and regionalism peculiar to  London's SOHO district.  So much so that the novel is difficult for the  average American to read, requiring that many of the terms' meanings be  inferred contextually. <br /> This is a violent and frankly sexual book (Duffy  is bisexual and spends a great deal of time in porn houses).  I say this  only to warn those who might be put off from it by these subjects.  But if  you are not faint-hearted, this book may be for you - it fascinates and  intrigues, it takes you to the very depths of human possibility.  That's a  lot to ask of a crime novel, but &quot;Duffy&quot; delivers.	2000-08-02
US	53069821	R1CUYSG7NLPEGC	0140244816	841120558	What's A Girl Gotta Do? (Robin Hudson, Book 1)	Books	3	12	16	N	N	Most Interesting Thing about this Book is the Author's Name	Which is not to say it is a bad book, by any means.  Unpolished, maybe, but not bad. <br /> Sparkle Hayter has created a hapless alter-ego in Robin Hudson, newswoman for the thinly-disguised ANN, 24-hour news network.   Robin has been in better positions, but has been steadily dropping off the  radar scope due to some poorly-timed mistakes.  This serves to make Robin a  likeable underdog for whom we root with gusto. <br /> The plot: Someone is  blackmailing ANN's on-air personalities.  The blackmailer is murdered.  Now  Robin and her coworkers are all suspects.  That's it. <br /> It's pretty easy  to follow, being an uncomplicated romp through the back rooms of live  television news, and has its humorous moments,but is overall a  &quot;commute&quot; book - one to read while on the train, or stuck in  traffic, or waiting for a dalayed plane.  There really isn't enough here to  engage a fully-attentive brain.	2000-07-31
US	53069821	R1ITQWFJA4F7ON	0679722580	262981597	The Continental Op	Books	5	20	22	N	N	Better than Spade	I am astonished at the ignorance of most people about thewriting of Dashiell Hammett.  Few people, if asked, could tell you thenumber of novels he wrote featuring Sam Spade (Answer: 1, although there are three short stories) or who the &quot;Thin Man&quot; was (Nope, not William Powell - it was the concrete-cased corpse).  Even fewer would look at you with anything less than a blank stare if you mentioned the Continental Op, the unnamed, smart, tough and slightly tragic hero of these stories.  <br /><br />The Op shares many qualities with the intrepid Spade, but is different in one respect - his ability to work as part of an agency and report to the &quot;old man&quot;.  This alone makes him 180-degrees different from the ronin Spade. <br /> The stories found in this book are stunning pieces of literature. Although they are the foundation upon which the genre &quot;hard-boiled&quot; would be built, they are indeed literary masterpieces, without a wasted word.  They are tough-guy poetry, without the flowery sentimentality of Raymond Chandler, who was to follow in Hammett's footsteps. <br /> What;s it all about?  A coded telegram about a missing daughter...some sheets of dark grey paper hidden in a copy of &quot;The Count of Monte Cristo&quot;...the FOR HIRE flag on a taxi that was up when it should have been down...a newspaper story that appeared in only ONE COPY of ONE ISSUE...a spitted dog barbecuing over a fire...a voice which spoke from an orange tree...  These things and more. <br />	2000-07-27
US	53069821	RO8ZCHKRO4215	059035342X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Tiresome	My wife bought the first two Harry Potter books for me last Christmas because I had mentioned that I was interested in finding out what all the fuss was about.  The answer?  Not much.  This is nothing more than an  engaging, if shallow, tale about a misfit who makes good.  Nothing  different or more enlightening than any of a thousand other books already  out there.<br /> Harry is a semi-likeable guy.  He doesn't cause any grief or  put anyone in terrible danger, and he's a hell of a Qwiddich player, but  that's about it.  The rest of the book is fairly standard fare, easily  cribbed from any of a dozen other children's books from the last  quarter-century.	2000-07-25
US	53069821	RVHS5FH3L824W	0440224942	105622593	Easy (Flap Tucker Mysteries)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Easy Does It	Philip Depoy is the thinking man's mystery writer.  I hesitate to say &quot;private eye&quot; writer, because Flap Tucker insists that he is not a detective, merely a &quot;finder of lost things&quot;, and it's something  he does very well. <br /> In other mysteries, coincidences are the bane of the  reader and the deus ex machina of the writer.  It's often too hard to  believe that such disparate events have a common root.  In this novel,  Depoy hands it all over with a wink &amp; a nudge and makes it all  believable. <br /> Flap is looking for the wife of one of Atlanta's nouveau  riche.  Only problem?  The guy is possibly slow and probably imagining her.   He's also asked to uncover the truth behind the &quot;devil man&quot; or  demon who is terrorizing the proprietor of a local Asian restaurant.  Are  they related?  Sure!  How?  Read the book. <br /> Depoy's Atlanta is an almost  fairy-tale place, where angels and demons walk with equal impunity.  I know  from experience that it sounds better here than it really is.	2000-07-21
US	53069821	R16E9PP48B35HN	0553562738	466136665	Doomsday Book	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Worth a Read	I rarely read fiction for historical accuracy.  If the errors are glaring and remove me from the story then it affects my enjoyment of the book.  But I found none of that in &quot;The Doomsday Book&quot;.  Connie Willis  brought the Middle Ages to life for me and made me feel the difficulty in  living during this dark time.  Kivrin, the time-traveling historian, is the  perfect go-between, explaining for us, living for us, observing for us. <br />  On the other side of the time tunnel is Mr. Dunworthy, her instructor.  He,  too, is an observor, guiding us through a 2048 not so distant from our  present time.  In fact, I was surprised at how similar this future was to  the one envisioned by Terry Gilliam in the film &quot;Brazil&quot; -  futuristic, yet archaic at the same time.  They can travel through time,  but they are still gulping down pills to treat illness.  They have  videophones, but the concept of a cell phone seems foreign. <br /> I finished  this book this morning, as I walked to work and I found myself weeping at  the hopelessness of life during the Plague.  I got to know the characters,  to feel for them, to root for their survival, but Willis knows better than  to give us a false happy ending.  It's not a completely depressing ending,  but the happy is mitigated, as it should be. <br /> Willis takes a long time  to get going, keeping us in suspense through artificial means, but they  payoff is great.  Enjoy.	2000-07-21
US	53069821	R1O6UKA2CN98L8	068486360X	125490883	Hot Springs	Books	3	1	6	N	Y	Wanted a dip, wound up getting soaked.	I'm coming to this novel, perhaps, with a very different perspective.  I  have never read Hunter's work and I am not familiar with Earl Swagger.  I  picked up the book on the basis of the Hot Springs setting.  I visited the  city a couple of years ago and became fascinated by its history. <br />  Hunter's &quot;Hot Springs&quot;, however, could just as well take place in  Peoria.  There is no sense of place here.  The historical characters are  painted with a broad brush, using no finesse or subtlety.  Swagger himself  is a caricature of a violent man.  Perhaps I would have connected better if  I had read the previous books.  The crew of raiders recruited to quell the  gambling in Hot Springs are mere cardboard cutouts.  The internal mutiny is  broadcast without regard for a sense of suspense. <br /> There is a good  moment early on when Swagger, on the run from his personal demons and his  adoring public, having just been awarded the Medal of Honor, drinks himself  nearly unconscious but manages to stick his gun in his mouth in utter  despair.  Hunter writes this scene with compassion and strength.  I only  wish he had written the rest of the book in the same way.	2000-07-10
US	53069821	R3A5Z01ZW2F0T6	0312143877	415033942	Panda Ray: A Science Fiction Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wow.  What a stunner.	This is perhaps one of the most brutal and amazing children's books I have ever read. it starts as a simple fable about a little boy with strange powers and quickly becomes a frightening indictment of man's inhumanity to  man.<br /> Kandel's writing style is remeniscent of Hawthorne's  deconstructionist narrator in &quot;The House of the Seven Gables&quot; -  omniscient and chatty, with just the right tone of menace. In addition,  Kandel makes poetry and beauty of the mathematical aspects of the story. At  one point, he describes the angles of a triangle in such luscious language  you want to curl up with one, just to see what it would be like.<br /> I  cannot recommend this book highly enough. I know it will haunt me for  months..	2000-06-22
US	53069821	R3LZJMTT04A15P	0312206712	999490568	San Francisco Bizarro: A Guide to Notorious Sites, Lusty Pursuits, and Downright Freakiness in the City by the Bay	Books	3	34	37	N	N	Am I just being touchy, or what?	I'll start by saying I like this book.  I bought it yesterday and did not sleep last night for reading it, even though I had a very important meeting this morning.  Boulware's look at San Francisco is entertaining.  But it's  not exactly fresh.  This book tries to take over where Eldritch Weirde's  &quot;A Guide to Mysterious San Francisco&quot; left off several years ago,  but falls severely short of the mark. <br /> Perhaps what annoys me, or  irritates me or alienates me about this book is the fact that it is written  from an outsider's point of view.  Boulware writes many of his articles  from an &quot;us vs. them&quot; point of view, the &quot;Us&quot; in  question being intelligent, right-minded people and the &quot;Them&quot;  being the freaks from San Francisco.  The tone is not reverent, but  mocking.  Boulware belittles us at every turn, whether making fun of the  way we dress while dining late-night at Sparky's, or swimming the Bay with  the Dolphin Club.  Boulware treats San Franciscan's like his own private  freak show.  It's obvious that he's not from around here. <br /> That said,  the book is still entertaining and chock full of interesting facts.  It  will take you to places you wouldn't find in an ordinary guide book and you  may or may not be the better for it.  <br /> For a real treat, a reverent,  loving guide to SF strangeness, pick up the aforementioned book by Dr.  Weirde.  It's out of print, so it will take some hunting, but it's well  worth it.	2000-06-21
US	53069821	R3I3SGX9V15SZE	0886777631	634336906	City of Golden Shadow (Otherland, Volume 1)	Books	3	46	61	N	N	How on Earth can something this boring be so intriguing?	I had no expectations about &quot;Otherland&quot;.  A friend lent me the book, saying there was no hurry to return it.  So it sat on my shelf for days and days.  <br /> I finally got around to opening it and was less than  impressed at first.  The story took too long to develop and once it did,  went no where.  The writing is as bloated as a corpse that has washed up on  the shores of the river of blue fire.  Because the writing is episodic,  taking the point of view of different characters, I was sometimes  compelled, sometimes not, depending upon my opinion of the hero of that  chapter.<br /> It was an odd experience, then, reading this book.  I would  race through one chapter, anxious to learn more about the lead character,  then turn the page and be so bored I could hardly pick the book up  again.<br /> I finally made it through and was compelled enough to pick up the  next one.  But I think the story could easily have been told in one book.	2000-06-21
US	53069821	R1ZT70KIF2R5VQ	0440224950	902660730	Too Easy	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Easy Pickup, Easy Read, Easy to Like	Let's get something straight right now - anyone who calls Flap Tucker a &quot;Zen Private Eye&quot; wasn't paying attention.  First, Flap practices Taoism, not Zen.  Second,Flap prefers to call himself a &quot;finder of  lost items&quot; as opposed to a private investigator.  Other than that,  the praise is all warranted. <br /> As you read, you may think that you are  reading a fantasy or magical realist novel.  Depoy is the kind of writer  who sees the magic in everyday situations and brings it to life. His dialog  is witty, snappy and thoughtful.  All of characters, save Dalliance  Oglethorpe, are interesting and twisted in their own way, but in a way that  is consistent with Flap's world.  Surprisingly, Dalliance is the weakest  character, possibly because Depoy insists that it is she around whom Flap's  world revolves, so the author was unable to see her as a person instead of  an icon. <br /> The suspense builds nicely, coming from a mixture of  terrestrial violence and magical supposition (though there is no magic here  outside of Flap Tucker's head).  The intertwined plots involving a missing  woman and the newly-appointed Panchen Llama is interesting and tasty.   <br />  I bought this book because I recently moved to Atlanta and like to explore  my surroundings via books.  I was not disappointed here.  I was dragged in,  entertained, and left begging for more.	2000-06-01
US	53069821	R158TWWACYKQOF	0446606421	799327623	Sewer, Gas and Electric: THE PUBLIC WORKS TRILOGY	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Joan, Stop this crazy thing!	Istanbul!<br /><br />Appluse, applause...<br /> I just finished reading Matt Ruff's &quot;Sewer, Gas and Electric&quot; and I wish he were here before me so I could give him a one-man standing ovation.<br />I picked this book up in an  airport bookstore, having looked at it several times before.  This time, I  was caught - I could not resist the ghost of Ayn Rand in a hurricane lamp  or the mutant great white nicknamed &quot;Meisterbrau&quot;.  Five hours  later I was breathlessly reading the last page.<br /> So what's good about it?   The writing is funny without being condescending or slapstick.  The  philosophy is interesting for those of us who walked in off the streets  without having bought the &quot;Atlas Shrugged&quot; ticket.  The  characters are amazingly fleshed out, and even the villains have redeeming  qualities and sympathetic motives.<br />I loved Kite (the immortal amputee),  the secret history of Disneyland and the vain attempts to kill Meisterbrau,  when every knows that the best way to kill a mutant shark is to introduce  it to the workings of Ayn Rand.<br />  If you like your humor broad, your  books thoughtful and your day weird, this book ought to do the trick.	2000-05-17
US	53069821	R1T7WO6W44J5S0	0151001812	297422625	The Fencing Master	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Not Bad For a First Novel	For the guy from Medford, OR who knows everything:<br />foible n 1: an behavioral attribute that is distinctive and peculiar to an individual [syn: idiosyncrasy, mannerism] <br />2: the weaker half of a sword's blade  from the forte to the tip <br /><br />Sometimes you just need to pay attention.	1999-07-20
US	53069821	R1WP8CNV49M8QI	0312859317	722385807	Darker Angels	Books	1	3	8	N	N	Reads Like it was Written by a Zombie	When I read the description of &quot;Darker Angels&quot; I was excited - I love alternate histories and fantasy books involving historical figures, a la J. Gregory Keyes or Tim Powers.  The cast list was impressive - Abraham  Lincoln, Walt Whitman, Poe, Marie Laveau, George Gordon (Lord Byron).  But  this shambling, soulless mess of a book didn't even live up to the Kirkus  Review. <br /> It is perhaps appropriate that a novel about zombies in  antebellum America be as lifeless and dead as this one.  But seeing the  aptness is not the same as being entertained or enlightened.  Somtow's  primary gimmick - having a character within the story told by the narrator  tell a long story, in which another story is told by another character, in  which another story is told by a character in THAT story - quickly becomes  tedious and confusing.  If you like that sort of thing  read Melville, who  can pull it off with artistry and subtlety.  Somotow just doesn't have the  chops. <br /> Add to all this Somtow's preoccupation with male anatomy and  necrophilia and you have a book about as appealing as poodle lasagne.   <br />  I'd suggest you give it a miss, or wait until you stumble across it in a  used bookstore.	1999-04-18
US	53069821	R1685DIQIAAKVY	068800508X	634671932	Radix	Books	1	11	21	N	N	What a Dreary, Ponderous Book...	It is hard to pin down what i don't like about this book.  Is it the dry, sketchy writing style?  Is it the faux-mystical overtones?  Is it the dearth of likable characters? <br /> Radix was difficult to get into, but  Sumner Kagan quickly emerged as a formidable anti-hero, defending himself  against street gangs in devious and deadly ways.  But Attanasio isn't  content to stay in the grimy city, where things are interesting.  She wants  to lift Sumner to Godhood, so we must follow Kagan into the wilderness and  through his many changes.  What a load of crap. <br /> I struggled to stay  awake while finishing this book, and not even the final meeting with the  Delph was enough to hold my interest.	1999-02-02
US	53069821	R1Z7HRRIRGQHN5	0965205231	809472181	Bizarre New Orleans: What the Other Guidebooks Won't Tell You	Books	1	28	33	N	Y	Ill-researched and Poorly Written	New Orleans is one of the most fascinating places on earth and, as such, is deserving of a richly-detailed, loving guide to its mysteries and truly bizzare aspects.  Instead, F.G. Fox has tossed off a barely useful  collection of facts that serve no use as a guidebook and deserves no notice  as an addition to the fine collection of guidebooks that DO exist, like  &quot;New Orleans on the Half Shell&quot;, or the Compass guide.  Even  &quot;Haunted City&quot; is better than this. <br /> Fox is author and  self-publisher of the fun and quirky &quot;Funky Butt Blues&quot;.	1999-01-31
US	53069821	R9ORGR6Z51QD0	0312143877	415033942	Panda Ray: A Science Fiction Novel	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Wow.  What a stunner	This is perhaps one of the most brutal and amazing children's books I have ever read.  it starts as a simple fable about a little boy with strange  powers and quickly becomes a frightening indictment of man's inhumanity to  man. <br /> Kandel's writing style is remeniscent of Hawthorne's  deconstructionist narrator in &quot;The House of the Seven Gables&quot; -  omniscient and chatty, with just the right tone of menace. <br /> In addition,  Kandel makes poetry and beauty of the mathematical aspects of the story.   At one point, he describes the angles of a triangle in such luscious  language you want to curl up with one, just to see what it would be like.  <br /> I cannot recommend this book highly enough.  I know it will haunt me  for months....	1999-01-29
US	53069821	R1UZV0TKSFRL1B	0312192541	779605463	Crossroad Blues: A Nick Travers Mystery	Books	4	3	4	N	Y	&quot;Crossroad Blues&quot; is all that and a bag of Zapp's	All the reviews I've read of &quot;Crossroad Blues&quot; have so far been positive.  This one will be no different.  They share one other trait - all of the reviewers pretend they knew who Robert Johnson was before they read  this book.  That's where this one will differ.  I had to go look him up  online to make sure he was a real person.   <br /> Here's the lowdown: Robert  Johnson did exist, and is considered a &quot;legendary&quot; bluesman,  though he recorded only 29 songs in his life.  While he lived, he  cultivated rumors about himself that suggested he had earned his musical  skill by trading guitars with the devil.  He died in 1938 under mysterious  circumstances (various rumors had it he was either stabbed or poisoned).  <br /> Ace Atkins uses this enigmatic musician's death as a starting point for  &quot;Crossroad Blues&quot;, a mystery starring Nick Travers (whose name,  Atkins thoughtfully points out in a pre-novel note, means &quot;dweller at  a crossroads&quot;), a former New Orleans Saint who is now a semi-drunk  teacher and musician.  When one of Travers' colleagues disappears while  researching a set of nine mythical recordings possible laid down by  Johnson, Travers tries to track him down, only to become embroiled in a  search for the recordings and the answer to Johnson's untimely murder. <br />  It's a credit to Atkins' skill as a storyteller that his fictional  characters blend seamlessly into the blues mythology.  His retelling of  Johnson's life made me wish I had grown up black and impoverished in the  30's.  The mystery was, if implausible, engaging and entertaining. <br /> I'm  a sucker for stories of this type - found manuscripts, new recordings of  old musicians, old paintings found under repaintings - so the story kept me  going.  But the novel did not hit the high point I was expecting from  previous raves.  Instead of simply telling his story, Atkins at times tries  too hard for literary strokes, producing these clunkers: <br /> &quot;Daniel  Rose's dusty Oldsmobile was parked next to a mound of rich upchurned soil  that resembled a spilled chocolate ice-cream scoop.&quot; <br /> &quot;Looked  like Superman's badassed twin from the Bizarro Planet.&quot; <br /> &quot;Dawn  broke over Jesse Garon's head like a spilled blue milkshake.&quot; <br /> This  book would have benefited from a few well-placed commas.  Most of Travers'  internal dialog is written in sentence fragments, a device I find tiresome.   Most of the fragments would have fit neatly onto the preceding sentence,  but Atkins' insistence on maintaining a &quot;realistic&quot; internal  voice apparently prevents him from obeying the rules of grammar. <br /> A few  reviewers have mentioned the character Jesse Garon, the hitman who looks  like a young Elvis (&quot;The one from the postage stamp,&quot; says  another character), as one of the more intriguing villains to come along in  a while.  Frankly, I thought Sarah Shankman wrote him better in &quot;The  King is Dead&quot;.  Yep.  That's right.  Someone else wrote an  Elvis-obsessed killer who may or may not be Elvis' lost twin brother Jesse  Garon fully five years before this novel (in reality, Jesse died at birth).  <br /> Overall, this was a remarkable book, notable for its knowledge of the  early greats and for the creation of a likeable anti-hero.   I look forward  to Ace Atkins' next Nick Travers book.	1998-11-02
US	53069821	R2IUJO2I0Z5IZG	0440226589	774044767	The Crime Czar	Books	3	36	39	N	Y	&quot;Crime Czar&quot; Limps, But Tubby Still Soars	<br />&quot;The Crime Czar&quot; is not so much a novel as a continuation of  &quot;Shelter From the Storm&quot;, Dunbar's fourth Tubby Dubbonet mystery.   Dunbar's novels tend to be short and to the point, but in this case, the  point was made last time around and there was very little else to say.  <br />In January's &quot;Shelter&quot;, Tubby's friend Dan was shot in the  chest in the aftermath of a daring bank robbery.  After clinging to life  for seven months, Dan dies, but not before telling Tubby that he knew his  murderer &quot;from the old neighborhood&quot;.  Tubby decides not to find  the killer, but the shadowy man behind the killer, the eponymous  &quot;Crime Czar&quot;.  Inexplicably, Tubby is also tapped to co-chair the  election campaign of a local judge. <br />Unlike the rest of the Dubonnet  oeuvre,  &quot;The Crime Czar&quot; is short on plot, though it retains the  strange New Orleans ambience.  Throughout, we feel a sense of underlying  decay, in the buildings, in politicians, in Tubby.  But lost are the  plausible coincidences that guide Tubby down his confused path; instead we  are treated to gratuitous and unbelievable turns of character.  Gone are  the easy transitions from humor to violence; they are replaced by  slapstick.  <br />Midway through the book, the shadowy Crime Czar emerges from  anonymity to have breakfast with Tubby in a Shoney's.  Why?  Because Tubby  asked him, through an intermediary, to do so.  I ask you, if you had as  much to lose as this guy, would you just out yourself on the whim of a down  and out attorney?  Later, when Tubby needs $500,000 seed money to set a  trap and can't find anyone to give it to him, a figure from a previous book  arrives unannounced with just that amount of money on her.   <br />Don't get  me wrong, I wanted to like this book more; so much so that I paid cover  price, plus Amazon's $1.85 &quot;special surcharge&quot; and $3.95  shipping.  But overall, this is a pleasant way to spend two hours(Dunbar's  books are not heavy reading), but unless you are the type of person who  gladly suspends disbelief, you will find much to puzzle and confound you  here.  If you have not read any of the Tubby Dubonnet series, you will  thank yourself for reading &quot;Crooked Man&quot;, but don't start with  &quot;The Crime Czar&quot;.  This book is a good way for a Dubonnet fan to  recapture some of that atmosphere and good will (like a business trip to  New Orleans might be), but it is not a good starting place.	1998-10-13
US	53069821	R3PRLX92CO4AEZ	0385488424	366346333	Sunset Limited	Books	3	0	0	N	N	&quot;Sunset Limited&quot; a one-track book	Photojournalist Megan Flynn and her brother Cisco return to New Iberia after many years as part of a film crew.  Their father, union activist Jack Flynn, had been crucified when they were children. Some folks in New Iberia know who did it, others had a part in it. Now a new series of violent murders are occurring and the key to solving them is the old crucifixion.  Parrish Detective Dave Robicheaux becomes involved to right old wrongs, catch the bad guys and put a hurtin' on the mob, wrapping it up just in time to make it to his AA meeting and eat a bowl of cush-cush with Bootsie and Alafair. <br /> Sound familiar?  Yeah.  Me, too. <br /> Burke has been accused in the past of lifting descriptive passages whole and transplanting them to later books.  Just lately he seems to be swiping his own plots and transplanting them to current books, but it isn't working anymore.  Ideas that seemed bold and fresh earlier in the series are here worn and anemic.  Why are all the criminals tied to the mob?  Why are all the old Creole gentility tied to the mob?  Why are all the film crews tied to the mob?  I just don't buy it anymore. <br /> I think Burke must still have some anger with Hollywood over &quot;Heaven's Prisoners&quot;. <br /> Burke's poetic writing is strong as always and his nostalgic evocation of the past makes for beautiful, melancholic reading.  But he seems to have forgotten who Dave Robicheaux is and what Dave's doing in the middle of ! all this craziness.  I have been frustrated over the last few books by Dave's brooding silence and refusal to discuss things with his wife, Bootsie. Instead, he alienates her and makes her feel bad with his inability to express himself.  This is the woman who saved his life, for Heaven's sake!  You'd think something like that would bring them closer.  <br /> Dave's daughter Alafair has also been pushed to the wayside. The interaction between these two characters used to be sparkling moments; Dave's love and pride in her was his weakness.  in &quot;Sunset Limited&quot;, Dave speaks to Alafair twice, both times to tell her to leave so he can carry on a conversation with someone else. <br /> I like Burke.  I like &quot;Sunset Limited&quot;, but I miss Dave Robicheaux; I think much of my disappointment in this book is having spent eleven years with the character and watching him become a shell of his former self.	1998-06-26
US	53069821	R1QZ4CR72TGKCV	0965314588	930921318	The Big Show	Books	5	3	6	N	N	&quot;The Big Show&quot; - Delusions of Grandeur	&quot;Snowood and Stevens avoided the Pantyhose case like the plague.&quot; <br /> The above quote sort of sums up &quot;The Big Show&quot; for me - the parts that aren't just plain trite are clichs.  &quot;The Big Show&quot; is O'Neil De Noux's fourth offering starring New Orleans Homicide Detective Dino LaStanza, and this one is so bad that I'm revising my opinion of the other three books, too. <br /> Not that the other three were actually any good, but they had a sort of exuberant stupidity that made not liking them hard - sort of like an &quot;Ace Ventura&quot; movie.  De Noux is a former homicide cop himself, so I found myself accepting the fact that the stories lacked plot, grammar, narrative focus and a spellchecker, and enjoyed the fact that I was getting an authentic voice.  The rules have changed, however.   <br /> From the inside cover of &quot;The Big Show&quot;, we now learn from De Noux's bio that he &quot;teaches mystery writing at Tulane University College and is the founding editor of two fiction magazines...&quot;  Uh-oh.  Now the rules have changed.  We're being asked to take De Noux seriously as a writer.  That's hard for me to do when the writer in question writes in sentence fragments, shows a preoccupation with adolescent sexual fantasies and creates cliche's instead of characters... <br /> &quot;The Big Show&quot; centers around LaStanza's search for an arsonist-murderer and his partner's hunt for a rapist-murderer, nicknamed &quot;The Pantyhose Rapist&quot;.  Along the way, we get a glimpse of what real police work must be like - endless canvassing of neighborhoods, uncooperative witnesses, administrative roadblocks.  But we never get a sense of anyone - we don't get to know the victims, so we never develop any sympathy for them.  The cops, LaStanza included, are almost universally unlikeable.  The only person even remotely sympathetic is Jodie Kintyre, LaStanza's partner, and that's not enough to carry the book.  As in previous books, Snowood and Stevens, two homicide dicks, are prese! nted as comedic relief, but serve only to irritate. <br /> De Noux's ineptitude with characterization is exemplified in Byron Norwood, a suspect in the arson-murder.  Norwood is a David Duke-like former white supremacist who has come into money and is running for governor.  Rather than create a personality for Norwood, De Noux simply steals that of Jay Gatsby and has Norwood prance around calling LaStanza &quot;Old Sport&quot; and mixing gimlets. <br /> LaStanza himself is a weak link, written as every cops wet dream.  Early in the series, LaStanza marries into an incredibly wealthy family and spends his time tooling around New Orleans in his brand-new Maserati, lounging in his jacuzzi and having his meals prepared by a uniformed maid.  His wife, the amazingly wealthy Lizette, is like an animated blow-up sex doll - all libido and servitude.   <br /> I strongly urge you not to waste your time or money on this book.	1998-06-11
US	53069821	R10570HAABK65F	0553102583	98461616	A Free Man of Color (Benjamin January, Book 1)	Books	4	37	40	N	N	Hard to get into, hard to put down	At first, it is difficult to understand what Barbara Hambly was attempting with &quot;A Free Man of Color&quot;.  Typically, when an author chooses an historical setting, he or she is doing one of two things, bringing light to the past through the artifice of fiction or revealing the present through the veil of the past.  If Hambly was doing the former, she did a fine job of evoking old New Orleans.  The book takes place during a time when The City That Care Forgot was losing her tenuous grip on her past and becoming a unique product of American industrialism and European traditions.  The Civil War was still thirty years in the future and New Orleans, for all the destruction and disease she had seen, for all the blood spilled in her streets still had an air of innocence.   This is the story of Benjamin Janvier, recently widowed and returning to New Orleans after 16 years in Paris.  This places Benjamin in the unique position of being able to contrast Paris, with it's lack of color distinctions, and New Orleans, with it's infamous &quot;Code Noir&quot; - the well-defined laws governing the behavior of &quot;colored&quot; people and their interaction with the French settlers, or Creoles.  This also places the reader in the position of comparing the treatment of blacks in Janvier's day and their treatment today, which makes this something of the latter of the above kinds of novels.  Is Hambly trying to tell an engaging and accurately detailed story set in the past? Or is she trying to poignantly underline current wrongs by speaking to us through the past?  I'm not sure she is certain which story she wants to tell, which puts the reader in the awkward position of trying to figure it out for themselves.  Ben, a surgeon in Paris but, due to prejudice, unable to practice medicine in New Orleans, makes his living as a pianist.  On his way to play at an octaroon ball, he runs into one of his former students, Mistress Trepagier, a creole widow who is sneaking into the ball indisguise, desperate to speak with her late husband's mistress.  When the mistress is later strangled, Ben, due to his color, seems a likely scapegoat - the victim was a woman of color, the murderer a man of color.  Let's hang him and get on with our lives.  Thinking he will get no consideration from the police, Benjamin looks into the murder on his own.  Hambly seems to have difficulty finding the rhythm in her narrative, like a drummer only slightly out of step with the rest of the marching band.  The overall effect is nice, but you keep suspecting her hitching a step in order to catch up.  Once she gets in step, however, the effect is mesmerising; the language becomes more fluid, the characters more honest to themselves.  From an historical perspective, I fully expected to have Marie Laveau pop up, at least in mention, and I was not disappointed;  the greater treat was a cameo by Madame LaLaurie, the famous New Orleans civil rights activist (I'm kidding, of course).    Although I had to struggle to get comfortable with this book, it won me over in the end.  I am looking forward to the next story in the Benjamin Janvier chronicles.	1997-10-15
US	53069821	R3M1789AQ2O3CN	0380792885	477283395	Gator Aide (Rachel Porter Mysteries)	Books	1	13	18	N	N	Connecticut Yankee Go Home	Every other character in this 300-page clich is a cajun, from Jake Santou, the dark, dreamy homicide detective, to Hillard Williams, mayoral candidate and former leader of the local Nazi party.  Strangely enough, though, none of the cajuns in this book have French names.  There's even a Gonzales, for heaven's sake. <br />  The story is roughly this: when the nude, razored body of Valerie Vaughn, a cajun stripper/prostitute is found next to a dead alligator, the Fish and Wildlife Service is called in (!) to dispose of the `gator corpse.  Not content to let Santou and the rest of the New Orleans Homicide detail do their jobs (because they're all crooked and incompetent) Rachel decides to solve the murder herself.    <br />  Chief suspect is Hillard Williams, who used to date the stripper.  As a matter of fact, he's the only suspect.    <br />  If there were such a thing as a &quot;Central Casting&quot; for authors, Jessica Speart would have maxed out her credit cards ordering characters for this book.  Her boss, Charlie Hickock, is the tough, hard-drinking loner who refuses to warm up to a woman yankee.  Hillard is the blustery southern good-ol'-boy politician who smokes cigars in the office of his opulent, Garden District home.  Hillard is married to Dolores, the faded beauty queen who - get this - actually carries around a three-legged French poodle named...Fifi.  Gunter Schuess is the sinister German terrorist.  Hillard's body  is guarded by the hulking Vinnie, an Italian mobster who loves to cook.  Oh yeah, Rachel's upstairs neighbor is the gay, transvestite performer, Terri.  These characters are nothing more than a potpourri of New Orleans books of the last two years.  <br />  Weaker than Speart's casting is her plotting.  Whenever Rachel is at a loss for direction, Speart employs the old &quot;Deus ex Machina&quot; trick, dropping Hunky Delroix, a backwoods poacher who seems to know everything, in the middle of the action.  For example, Rachel decided she needs to capture Trenton Treddel, her boss' old 'gator-poaching nemesis, in order to get in Charlie's good graces.  Charlie, in all his years as a Wildlife agent, has never been able to capture Trenton.  Rachel nabs him in a day.  How does she do it?  She asks Hunky where he lives.  Ol' Charlie should have been slapping his forehead over that clever trick.  <br />  I wanted to like this book.  Honest.  The cover, showing a 'gator in bright pink sunglasses made me expect a light, amusing read.  Instead, I found myself grumbling through the whole thing.  But, his is not the worst book I have ever read.  Robert Walker's &quot;Pure Instinct&quot; holds that position, hands down.  <br />  The bright spot is that, as the book progressed, I found myself more entertained.  It was as though Speart was finding her voice before my very eyes.  I think with a better editor and a little more practice, the Rachel Porter series could become a solid staple of the New Orleans mystery genre.  Few Spenser fans will admit that Robert B. Parker's &quot;The Godwulf Manuscript&quot; was an unholy mess.  But the series grew up as Parker did.  Maybe Rachel will turn out okay after all	1997-09-19
US	53069821	R3DF923BYJQ6T5	0553572407	671551230	Interface	Books	2	10	19	N	N	Stephen Bury ain't no Neal Stephenson	A few weeks back, a reviewer suggested we might see the hand of Neal Stephenson in Bury's &quot;Interface&quot;.  Almost everyone knows by know that Bury is a pseudonym of the &quot;collaberation&quot; between Stephenson and his uncle.  But no one who as read the intensely poetic &quot;Snow Crash&quot; or the sardonically funny &quot;Zodiac:the Eco-Thriller&quot; could mistake the clunky, amateurish &quot;Interface&quot; for a work by Neal Stephenson.  The plotting, while well-paced, seems pieced together from one of those Author Help computer programs.  The characters are cut completely from cardboard and hammered into upright positions with coathanger frames.    Neal Stephenson at his best reminds us of the young William Gibson, etching his name with a hybrid SciFi-Adventure-Poem called Neuromancer.  Not a paragraph goes by without causing us to shake our heads in disbelief that one book could contain so many dead-on passages.    Stephen Bury at his best recalls Stephen King when the rent is due, idly cranking out another forgettable work with precious few clever observations and fewer interesting moments.    If Neal Stephenson has truly offered his uncle a hand in co-authoring this book, he must have written the page numbers, because I found them the most interesting part I counted down the number of pages to the end.	1997-06-12
US	53069821	RHRPHQJHRRL3S	0553378287	407277038	The Cobweb	Books	3	9	14	N	N	&quot;The Cobweb&quot; Needs Dusting	Anyone who recognizes Neal Stephenson's &quot;stamp&quot; on this tepid thriller is looking too hard.  I do not know Stephenson's uncle, so I am unale to refer to him by name, but I do know Stephenson's work.  Perhaps Stephenson wrote the outline, or came up with the story idea, or merely attached his name so his poor, destitute uncle could pay off his gambling debts, but the bottom line is this:  &quot;The Cobweb&quot; is not the work of Neal Stephenson.  The protagonists are transparent, insubstantial.  Clyde Banks has none of Sangamon Taylor's grungy flair or Hiro Protagonist's derring-do.  Banks' wife, Desiree, has no personality and seems  to have no purpose other than as a catalyst.  Old Whatzername in the CIA (see?  I've forgotten already) is simply an exposition tool.  (Oh, yeah.  Her name is Betsy Vandervent....)    This book is moderately entertaining - about what I'd expect from Dean Koontz trying to write a thriller (Oops.  He already does write thrillers, doesn't he?).  Good for a rainy Saturday afternoon when you can't get to the bookstore, but I wouldn't make the trip especially for this.	1997-06-12
