US	53063937	R3QBMO33H2LNF8	0451207955	828688477	Serpent's Dance	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	ANOTHER FEATHER IN LARRY BROOK'S CAP	I love Larry Brooks' books. I read his first novel, Darkness Bound, before he became a recognized author, and before his books could be found in book clubs and every place that sell books.  I was rivited by that book, as I have been by every other book of his I have read.  Serpent's Dance is no exception.  Mr. Brooks is a master at suspense, and his books are just enough over the top to make them impossible to put down.  Like all his other stories, Serpent's Dance gives readers enough twists and turns to keep them reading well beyond any decent hour.  His forte is letting the reader really think they know what is going on, and then pulling the rug out.  In a nutshell, this story is about a woman whose sister died under very suspicious circumstances, and she is deterimine to find the truth.  Needless to say the path she takes to find that truth (and we, the readers, happily follow her) is cicuitious and unpredictable.  Mr. Brooks is not afraid to push the envelope of normalcy (this story involves some very kinky characters with some very kinky sexual behaviors) but never crosses over into the tasteless and gratuitous.  Some of his nastier characters are the most compelling and likable.  Reading a Larry Brooks book is not unlike a wild roller coaster ride.  When the ride is over you find that you really want to go again!	2004-08-08
US	53063937	R3B7TK8K60OXDH	1582432678	467980841	We Need to Talk About Kevin: A Novel	Books	5	4	6	N	N	FRIGHTENING, TIMELY, AND ALL TOO REAL	I originally decided to read this book because I have found myself morbidly fascinated by the violent behavior growing exponentially among the young people of this country.  I have raised two children, now adults, who managed to grow up as loving, compassionate young women.  This book appealed to me because it appeared to address what makes these violent youth tick.  Make no mistake - this is not some remake of &quot;The Bad Seed&quot;, although Kevin, the young man who commits unspeakable violence, seems to fit that description.  The book's style is so unique, written as letters from Kevin's mother Eva to her ex-husband Franklin, in journal form, allowing the reader to view her innermost thoughts and feelings.  It gives this book a deeply personal feel to it.  The story is about an unremarkable upper-middle class couple who, after agonizing over the issue, finally decide to have a child.  From the very beginning, Eva has a difficult time connecting with Kevin, while Franklin sees him as his little man who can do no wrong.  As he grows older, Kevin becomes more and more strange and frightening, and the horrible events that unfold are inevitable.  The temptation is to think that Kevin's behavior and almost evil personality is exaggerated for literary effect.  But one only needs to read a basic primer on the psychopathic personality to know that, whether we like or not, people like Kevin DO exist, and they often come from normal and happy families. They don't have horns on their heads or a sign on their foreheads that says &quot;I am going to kill someone&quot;. Certainly Eva does not present herself or Franklin as perfect parents, but rather is brutally honest about their shortcomings.  Still, one would never assume that they would raise a rage-filled, violent child. Kevin scares us so much because his upbringing is, if not perfect, at least very normal.  His behavior comes from beyond external influences. I firmly believe that some people are evil from conception.Studies have shown differences in brain chemistry among psychopaths.  Although this book is fiction, it is based in fact, and although it is society's habit to heap blame on parents for the bad acts of their children, it is blame placed unfairly. This book will frighten and disturb, but it is blade-sharp in its brutal honesty and accuracy.  No one wants to believe in &quot;bad seeds&quot;, but they are there, and this book makes this fact impossible to ignore. I couldn't put it down, and I doubt most readers will be able to either.	2004-03-20
US	53063937	R3G4IBBOQZMAX4	0670031720	28976631	Drop City	Books	5	27	30	N	N	NOSTALGIC AND SATISFYING	I was not familiar with T.C. Boyle, and therefore had never ready anything he had written.  I chose this book because I was a young woman during the 70's, and was very much a part of the hippie movement in California. I hoped this book would be a bit of a walk down memory lane.  How delighted I was to find it was so much more.  In the first part of the book, the members of the &quot;California&quot; Drop City so accurately represented people I knew.  Idealism overrode reality, fueled by a drug-induced sense of invincibility.  But the real impact of this book hits when the Drop City members move to Alaska, with their naive belief that living in the untamed Alaskan wilds would be the ultimate adventure.  But they found that the &quot;free love&quot; and &quot;living off the fat of the land&quot; philosophy did not work in the harsh Alaskan winter.  Contrasted with this loopy group of people are Seth and Pamela, Alaskan natives, who represent the salt of the earth folks, who's contact with the Drop City inhabitants clearly demonstrates the clash of cultures between good intentioned idealism and harsh reality.  All the characters in this book are finely etched.  The transition from carefree love children to frightened, unprepared hostages of the Alaskan wilds, is at once predictable and heartbreaking. Several of the Drop City members defect:  the original founder takes his allegedly sick girlfriend and bails; Pan becomes a victim of his own materialism and suffers the ultimate consequence. The juxtaposition of the Drop City inhabitants and the lives of native Alaskans Seth and Pamela, is what makes this book so incredibly moving. I found Mr. Boyle's understanding of the 70's insightful and realistic. The plot and characters are not the only strength of this book.  Mr. Boyle's writing is both crisp and poetic, interlaced with a biting and acerbic sense of humor.  Yes, I definitely recommend this book to anyone, but most specifically those of us who either were, or knew those who were, members of the 70's, and understood how quickly the sense of love and peace could be transformed by reality.  The move to Alaska in this book is, is my mind, an allegory of how the harsh realities of life ultimately transformed the idealism of the 70's.  The book is well worth reading, no matter where or who you were during that pivotal time.	2003-12-14
US	53063937	R2A3RTYS72Z8HZ	0385507755	641692200	A Million Little Pieces	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Incredible and Harrowing Journey	One of the first reactions I had after finishing this remarkable book was a deep desire to meet the author and shake his hand (or give him a hug if he would allow it).  I cannot remember having been as deeply affected (or disturbed) by a book in a long time.  Quite simply this is the story of a person completely addicted to multiple substances, and how, after he lands in a rehabilitation program, he fights for his life against unrelenting and daunting odds.  I have to honestly say that I have never experienced substance abuse, but I have a daughter who fell into that black hole for several years.  I watched her disintigrate both physically and emotionally.  She reached a point where she recognized that she was either going to climb out of her hole, or destroy herself completely.  She chose the former, and is now healthy and sober.  Reading this book gave me some insight (I am convinced that no one can really understand the draw of addiction without having been addicted themselves) into what makes an addict an addict.  I have reconsidered much of my thinking (such as &quot;if they really wanted to get off of drugs or alcohol they could&quot; and &quot;they are simply paying the consequences of their own poor decisions&quot;) I found this book so painful at times that I had to put it down, and read it in small doses.  Nothing is spared in this book.  Mr. Frey's brutal honesty will shock and quite possibly offend many readers. I cannot imagine how painful this was for him to write - to recall all the pain and horror of his life and then spill it all out on the pages of a book.  I do know that I am grateful to him for doing so.  And one cannot help but admire him for taking his own path, not necessarily the traditional ones offered in rehabilitation centers.  My daughter did the same - she made a decision to stop the madness on her own, and became sober totally on her own, with no outside help, and she has stayed clean and sober for 3 years, with no desire to return todrugs and alcohol.  This book should be read by everyone, certainly by anyone who knows or loves an addicted person.  This book helps show that given enough strength of character and a strong support system of friends and/or family, a person can learn to rise above their demons and reclaim their lives.  Thank you, Mr. Frey, for opening my eyes and mind, and for the pain you endured to share this remarkable story with us.	2003-10-05
US	53063937	R3IFBAWV4ZU1MA	0375413634	70225414	The Emperor of Ocean Park	Books	5	6	6	N	N	AN AMAZINGLY INTELLIGENT THRILLER	This is quite possibly one of the best books I have ever read.  This is saying quite a lot since I spend as much time as I can reading!  To use a favorite expression of the author, Stephen Carter, this book is &quot;astonishing&quot;.  Some of the reviewers complained that the book was too long, but I found myself wishing it had been longer.  It is one of those books that slowly but inexorably draws the reader in, rather like a fly in a spider web.  The book starts out with the protagonist, Talcott (or Misha as he is often referred to), being a middle-class Afican American, married, one son, and a career as a law professor at a prestigious University, a fairly mundane, normal existence.  However, without even being aware of exactly what is happening, we, along with Misha, find life has turned upside down and sideways.  All we know is that Misha's father, a disgraced judge, has died, and left behind a convoluted &quot;arrangement&quot; which Misha must unravel if his life is ever to return to something resembling normalcy.  It's not unlike Alice's tumble down the rabbit hole in &quot;Alice in Wonderland&quot;, and the surrealistic events that follow held me for the entire length of the book.  This is not a fast action, quick thriller, nor is for the &quot;weekend warrior&quot; reader, and is not for everyone.  But for those who like their stories cerebral and intelligent (much of the plot is compared to complex chess plays, which I don't pretend to understand!) will have a hard time putting this book down.  I hope Mr. Carter is working on another book!  This was a mind-blowing and thoroughly compelling experience.	2003-08-24
US	53063937	RALQM2UYA3JUX	0684870355	111234739	Stacking in Rivertown	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	DISTURBING JOURNEY TO THE DARK SIDE	The obvious opening statement for any review of this book is that it is not for everyone.  It is strongly erotic, and deals with some sexual subject matters offense and disburbing to many.  For those of us who are more adventerous in our reading habits, however, it is a deep, probing, heart and gut wrenching psychological study of the depths of depravity that some people will endure in order to survive.  What separates this book from typical \\"porno\\" is its intelligence and depth.  There are explicit scenes of sado-masochism and violent and kinky sex, but they are almost secondary to the main story, which is a richly and lyrically written story of a young woman who faces demons most of us can only imagine.  The depth of the plot and the characters is what makes this book compellingly readable.  The protagonist, Beth or Becca or any of the other identities she assumes, evokes a entire array of emotions from the reader - from admiration to irritation back and forth throughout the story.  Ben, the antogonist, is forboding and frightening, and lurks thoughout the book like a great white shark, ready to attack unexpectedly at any time. Make no mistake that this is a fluffy turn-on book.  It is beautifully written and deeply probing, making it more of a work of literary erotica.	2003-06-22
US	53063937	R1VH0F0W2V1IQ	0971869413	564647181	The Jesus Thief	Books	5	20	22	N	Y	ENTHRALLING MIX OF SCIENCE AND THEOLOGY	Some time ago, I was privileged to be invited to read Ms. Lankford's first book, \\"The Crowning Cicle\\".  So much did I enjoy it that when \\"The Jesus Thief\\" came out, I was anxious to read it.  The premise was fascinating (the cloning of Jesus Christ).  The beauty of this book is that, although the underlying theme relates to Christianity, the book avoids any religious dogma.  I am Jewish, and I enjoyed this book thoroughly.  We know the science exists for cloning.  Ms. Lankford has done her homework and her knowledge of cloning and medical procedures is astounding.  So is her knowledge of different religions.  Her research for this book much have been incredible.  This book will have broad appeal, both for people who are religious, and for those who prefer science.  The book successfully juxtaposes both, without making any judgment as to the correctness of either.  The characters are well developed, and very early on in the book I made my alliance with Maggie, a simple but spiritual Black woman, who becomes the fulcrum upon which the story balances.  The other character I particulalry liked was Sam, an Irish doorman whose role in the story grows and develops in ways you will never predict.  There are darkly sinister characters as well, including the reclusive Mr. Brown, and in between are two of the main characters, Felix Rossi, the doctor who attempts the cloning, and his sister Fran, who is far more skeptical about the procedure than her brother.  There is real magic in this book,and whether you are Christian, Jewish, Muslim, Agnostic, or even Athiest, you cannot help but be enthralled with just the concept of cloning Jesus, and as stated before, Ms. Lankford embraces all beliefs in the concept of the second coming (ie. birth) of the Jesus clone. Once started, this book cannot be put down, and it left me appreciating the wonder of faith, in whatever form it might take.  Please do yourself a favor and read this magnificent book.  It will leave you breathless.	2003-04-25
US	53063937	R3BKU1OQYV3RS5	0738830658	343343222	The Crowning Circle	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	THRILLER WITH A BRAIN	I am very lucky.  I enjoy books dealing with crimes and criminal investigations.  Fortunately for me, there is no shortage of these types of books.  Sometimes they begin to sound an awful lot like each other.  Not so Crowning Circle.  This book is a fascinating and exciting crime novel. But where it differs from so many others of the genre, it has an intelligence and sophistication not often found.  It is clear that Ms. Lankford herself is incredibly intelligent, in many areas as it turns out.  The story deals with several, seemingly unrelated deaths.  Two friends, one a Police Psychiatrist (Skeet) and one a computer whiz (Jake) use their own style of investigation to try and solve the mystery.  Skeet uses intuition and an almost psychic ability to try to solve cases.  He relies on his instincts to try and interpret events.  Jake, on the other hand, is used to thinking analytically.  He needs facts to guide him.  The juxtaposition of the two opposite methods of solving the crimes is what makes this book so compelling.  Both Skeet and Jake, as divergent in their thinking as they are, are able to complement each other, drawing on their strengths to see the events from completely different angles.  This is a multi-cultural story - Skeet is African-American with a Vietnamese girlfriend, Jake is Caucasian and falls in love with an Alsacian woman.  Ms. Lankford knows her stuff, and the convergence of these different people and their personal issues makes for a fascinating read.  All that being said, this is a terrific book, one that is very hard to put down because of the twisting plot, but it also makes the reader think.  There is a lot of drama going on, and following the convoluted path to the end is a deeply satisfying experience.  Please do yourself a favor and get this book.  If you are like me you will be waiting impatiently for Ms. Lankford's next book.  This is one amazing lady, and she writes with elegance and intelligence.	2002-04-18
US	53063937	R37PSSO3MFHSOF	0451410017	182243858	Pressure Points	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	INTELLIGENT, THRILLING AND SCARY	Want a book that you can't put down?   Want a story that stimulates your brain cells?  Want to be scared out of your shorts?  &quot;Pressure Points&quot; is definitely for you.  I read Mr. Brooks' first book &quot;Darkness Bound&quot; and was immensely impressed by his imaginative plotting and intelligent writing.  &quot;Pressure Points&quot;, if anything, is even more compelling.  It is the story of three ad agency employees attempting to buy out their company from the remaining partner, Ken Wong (love the cleverly named firm:  Wright and Wong)  All they need to do is attend a mysterious seminar and prove their mettle.  Depending on who excels, one of them will be designated CEO.  Reluctant at first, they finally decide to attend.  After all, owning the business is worth tolerating some &quot;feel good&quot; seminar for a week.  Or is it?  The only thing you can count on in this book is that you can't count on anything.  No one is who they appear to be, and everyone changes partners.  Sort of a literary Dance Macabre.  Don't even try to guess the outcome -- just enjoy the bumpy ride to the end.  Brooks is clearly a very intelligent man himself.  He raises questions most of us would rather avoid in our own lives, but become unavoidable while reading this extraordinary book.  You will come out of it feeling like you've just been through your own &quot;seminar&quot;.  I can't say enough good things about &quot;Pressure Points&quot;, and you will need to read it yourself to fully appreciate the unique and incredibly compelling aspects of this story.  Just don't plan to attend any seminars in the near future . . . . . .	2002-03-09
US	53063937	R3N1JSYQRDR7MM	0446527750	204741724	The Bodyguard's Story: Diana, the Crash, and the Sole Survivor	Books	3	14	34	N	Y	The Trials of Saint Trevor	The only reason I chose to read this book was because it was co-written by a dear friend of mine, Moira Johnston.  Indeed, I had long become weary of anything to do with Princess Diana long before she died.  And the only reason I gave this book any stars at all was because of Johnston's contribution to the readability of the story.  She is an excellent author.  Through no fault of her own, however, the subjects of this book, Trevor Rees-Jones and his family, are some of the most irritating and self-serving characters I have ever encountered in a book.  Indeed, were it not for Rees-Jones' association with Princess Diana, he would be just another unfortunate automobile accident victim, no more, no less.  Yes, it is true that he endured horrific injuries and a long and arduous rehabilitation.  So have many other people.  It is more than clear, however, that his motivation in writing this book was not, as he claims, to &quot;set the record straight&quot;, but to paint himself as a martyr, the only one who can tell the truth.  The truth is, he doesn't even remember much of what happened, so how can he feel he can shed any kind of light on the crash?  Much of this account attempts to lay the blame at the Al Fayeds.  Never mind that Trevor chose to continue to stay on Al Fayed's payroll, or that his family chose to take full advantage of the luxeries extended to them by Al Fayed during Trevor's recovery.  The Rees-Jones family seemed to have forgotten that, although battered and injured, their son survived.  Not so Al Fayed's son Dodi.  I have little respect for the Al-Fayes either.  The tragedy of lives too soon taken become lost in the finger-pointing.  Indeed, it appears that the truth will never really be known.  For Rees-Jones to think that this book answers any significant questions is an insult to any intelligent person.  The book is an interesting read, and thanks to Moira Johnston, well written, but it is no more than a self-absorbed and arrogant portrait of a saint-like Trevor Rees-Jones.  There was little sympathy left in me by the end.nt-like Trevor Rees-Jones.  There was little sympathy left in me by the end.	2002-02-12
US	53063937	R3LCZW92UA19TO	0743211383	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	4	1	2	N	Y	A Parable for the 21st Century	First off, I will admit to being an unashamedly loyal Stephen King fan.  In my humble opinon, even the most medicore of King still makes for entertaining and enjoyable reading.  The best of King is downright awesome.  That being said, I was amused by some of the negative reviews of this book. Some feel that only die-hard King fans would enjoy it. I strongly disagree.  I am most definitely not a sci-fi fan, and began reading Dreamcatcher with that in mind.  But this is so much more than your typical alien-invades-earth-tries-to-take-over genre.  This story is, in fact, a complex and mind-bending hero's journey epic.  Knowing that King wrote this book while recuperating from his almost fatal accident could explain the deeply probing questions raised in the story.  King himself was probably asking himself the very same questions.  What does it really mean to be human?  Is our humanity a good thing or a burden we must carry?  It's true that the story takes some getting used to. It jumps back and forth in time, moving from character to character.  The reader needs to become familiar with each character and their role in the story.  Four childhood friends, bound together by an act of courage as young boys, find themselves once again bound together as adults in the face of the potential end of life on earth as they knew it.  In this book, King has created one of the most incredible and deep characters in recent literature - Douglas (aka Duddits) Clavel, a simple boy with Down's Syndrome, who becomes a pivotal presence, the glue that holds everything together.  The story is, to be sure, so complex that at times the reader can become somewhat confused.  But I found that, for the most part, that confusion did not detract from the story, and, even if some parts didn't make total sense, I simply moved on and was able to pick up keep going.  All the characters, good and bad, are brilliantly developed.  There is no doubt that this story is more cerebral than some of King's othernovels, and for that reason, will not be for everyone.  I started it with the assumption that it would probably not be one of my King favorites, but in the final analysis, I discovered that it was.  I suspect that most readers will either love it or hate it.  The reviews tend to uphold that theory.  It was for me, a deeply satisfying experience.	2002-01-20
US	53063937	R18WPRRP4IL3FB	068485466X	275267442	The Noonday Demon: An Atlas Of Depression	Books	5	24	26	N	Y	A MUST READ FOR EVERYONE	This is a truly remarkable book.  You might wonder why on earth anyone would want to read a 400+ page book about depression, but this is not just any book about depression.  It is an intelligent, comprehensive, and compassionate study of one of the most pervasive illnesses of our time.  Mr. Solomon, himself a victim of severe depression, has explored every possible aspect of this devastating condition:  Psychological, sociological, historical, scientific, and more.  Solomon attempts to demystify the illness, offering insight into how, and possibly why, it affects its victims.  I myself have been in treatment for depression for almost 20 years. I have a highly stressful job working for the District Attorney's Office, have raised two daughters (17 and 21), and have been married for 25 years.  I have been successful and productive in all these aspects of my life.  This book is invaluable to those who suffer from depression.  It helps us better understand what is happening to us, and how to somehow make sense of the &quot;why me&quot; aspect of depression.  But more important, this book should be read by anyone who knows, or loves, someone who suffers from depression.  Knowing, loving, and/or living with someone who suffers from depression can be a miserably frustrating experience. Solomon attempts to shed insight into the physiology and psychology of depression, as well as a comprehensive exploration of the many treatment options available. Not all of his stories have happy endings.  He doesn't pretend to have all the answers.  But sometimes just understanding the illness makes it less overwhelming and frightening.  This book could save lives.  At the very least it will educate both the depressed and non-depressed, allowing them to accept depression as a real and valid illness, which for many is highly treatable.  Mr. Solomon even goes so far as to suggest that those who suffer from depression can be better people for it.  I am certainly one of the lucky ones.  I willnever be &quot;cured&quot;, but I have learned how to work around the illness.  Mr. Solomon has done the same.  For your sake and/or the sake of a loved one, you should read this extraordinary book.	2002-01-01
US	53063937	R3U1RQDNKRRWPA	0688163165	733601761	Mystic River	Books	5	81	84	N	N	Haunting and Riveting	Reading is my passion.  I have books piled up all over my room just waiting to be read.  Although I enjoy most books, I read so many of them that often, by the time I'm halfway into a new one, I have already forgotten most of what I read in the previous book.  But there are a handfull of books that made such an impression on me, that their stories stay with me long after I've finished them.  Some, I doubt, I will ever forget.  Dennis Lehane's &quot;Mystic River&quot; is one of those.  I had only read one other Lehane book - &quot;Praying for Rain&quot; - which was a good crime thriller.  Mystic River, however, is entirely different.  It does involve a murder, but it is so much more than a crime thriller.  It is a psychological masterpiece.  The main characters, Dave Boyle, Jimmy Marcus, and Sean Devine, grow up as childhood friends.  One day Dave suddenly disappears in a car with two men.  He returns a changed and damaged child, but what happened while he was gone remains his secret.  The book moves ahead twenty-five years.  All three have now grown up, having taken completely different paths in life. When Jimmy Marcus' daugher is murdered, the story takes off as Sean, now a homicide detective, takes on the case.  But the meat of the story involves the personal demons that haunt all three men, and the effects those demons have on their marriages, families and their lives.  This is not a classic whodunit.  Lehane does not throw out little tidbits to throw the reader off from guessing who killed Katie, the murdered girl.  In fact, so wrapped up in the lives of the three men, their wives and families, that we almost don't care who the murderer really is.  There is a lot of darkness in this book as Lehane deftly developes these tragic characters.  But the book is not without humor - Lehane's writing is full of dry, acerbic humor.  I found myself drawn to every character in the book - as flawed and damaged as they were.  No matter what you think has happened, you want to reach out to them, especially Dave, whose live was forever changed that fateful day that he was taken away.  This book will appeal to a large audience - for those who love a good mystery, and those who like their books deep, probing the characters' psyches.  As I said, this book is still with me, and I suspect it always will be.  Do yourself and favor and don't miss this wonderful, deeply moving book.  It will make you think about your own life, and how &quot;but for the grace of God go we&quot; makes us realize how fragile our sense of security in our own lives really is. Read it and be moved!reach out to them, especially Dave, whose live was forever changed that fateful day that he was taken away.  This book will appeal to a large audience - for those who love a good mystery, and those who like their books deep, probing the characters' psyches.  As I said, this book is still with me, and I suspect it always will be.  Do yourself and favor and don't miss this wonderful, deeply moving book.  It will make you think about your own life, and how &quot;but for the grace of God go we&quot; makes us realize how fragile our sense of security in our own lives really is. Read it and be moved!	2001-11-24
US	53063937	R3O833V147GHV1	840101400X	106478906	Blonde	Books	4	10	11	N	N	A Fast and Riveting 700+ Pages	It was no surprise to me to see that most of the reviews for this book were polarized - most readers either loved it or hated it. I have been a major JCO fan for a long time.  I find her writing intelligent and her insights astonishing.  Frankly, I am not a Marilyn Monroe fan.  First, I was too young to remember her when she was alive, and I have never seen any of her movies. So why read a long book about her?  Because Joyce Carol Oates wrote it.  Because Ms. Oates has taken liberties with fact (she does, after all, refer to this as a novel)it really wasn't necessary to know anything about Marilyn/Norma Jeane.  The fact that her life was so fascinating, troubled, and dramatic makes for great fiction.  Some readers objected to Oate's writing style.  But for those of us who have enjoyed her previous writings, this was a gourmet feast!  If you are a Marilyn Monroe fan you will probably enjoy this book, and if you're not, you will still enjoy it, because it covers so much of what fascinates us - madness, sex, drugs, drama and pathos.  700+ pages went surprisingly quickly.	2001-09-29
US	53063937	R193EHDY0TS65E	1587210649	87127163	Pagan Moon	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	ENTERTAINING, SUSPENSEFUL, AND WELL-WRITTEN	This book does not fall into any one category.  It blends the horror/supernatural, police/mystery, and medical thriller quite effectively. It is also laced a with some historical sub-plots just for interest.  This author proves that a book need not be locked into one genre or another in order to be successful.  And for a reader like me, who enjoys all three of the above types, this was particularly enjoyable.  It reminded somewhat of the Indian Jones series - a tough but lovable protagonist, and some deliciously wicked bad guys, along with some eccentric but fascinating minor characters.  The book reads very quickly.  The action is swift, punctuated by relatively short chapters.  The main part of the book is failry &quot;normal&quot;.  There is something nefarious going on in the background, but we are not quite sure what.  It isn't until the last third or so of the book that all, excuse the expression, hell breaks loose and reality is totally suspended.  In this type of book, though, who cares?  It's just more exciting reading.  This book will make a great movie -it has just the kind of elements that work on the big screen.  Lots of action, well etched characters, a beautiful woman, and it practically screams for special effects.  I applaud Mr. Davis for his courage in writing a book that transcends being pigeon holed.  Book stores may have a hard time figuring out what section to put it in, but the final product works.  It is a book to enjoy, not to try and analzye or to think to hard about.  You will enjoy the ride!	2001-03-24
US	53063937	R1GUPW4YSIBGLK	0451202341	334925003	Back Roads	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Heartbreaking, disturbing and downright awesome	After reading the reviews, it would appear that this book evoked strong feelings, both positive and negative, from its readers.  From that standpoint alone it is a success.  Even those who hated it were profoundly affected.  There was little indifference.  I am in the category of those who loved it.  It didn't start out that way.  Oh, there was no doubt that O'Dell's writing was magnificent, almost poetic.  Nor was I bothered by the disturbing subjects of incest, murder, statutory rape.  One reviewer asked why we need to read about these things.  Because they exist, and burying our heads in the sand is not an option.  I just couldn't make a connection with the book, even though I acnkowledged the gorgeous writing, and found the characters well developed and interesting.  But something happened halfway through the book.  I can't really figure out what it was, but suddenly I became deeply and emotionally drawn to the story and its characters.  I couldn't put the book down.  Harley, the protagonist of the story, evoked such strong maternal feelings (I am the mother of a 17 year old and a 20 year old, both girls) because he was a young man in pain, with no one to turn to, and with such overwhelming responsibilities to his sisters.  He seeks love with the mother of his younger sister's best friend.  His father is dead and his mother is in prison for his murder. And he is only 19. For the rest of the book, I found myself alternately laughing and weeping.  Some reviewers have complained that there is no humor in the book.  It is subtle, and of course muted by the disturbing subject matter of the book, but it is there.  I literally went from feeling the book was OK but not extraordinary, to realizing that it was one of, if not the, best book to come down the pike in a long time.  Harley and his sisters, Jody, Misty, and Amber, will stay with me for a long time.  Don't read this if you are uncomfortable with controversial subject matters.  But if you are not, you will be depriving yourself of a most remarkable experience if you don't read it.  I am far from an Oprah fan, and her endorsement had nothing to do with my decision to read this.  So whether or not you like or don't like Oprah, leave her out of the equasion.  This book stands on its own merits as a significant literary event.  I, like some other readers, await with great anticipation, more books from this incredibly talented author.	2001-03-10
US	53063937	R3O9HIZPNG9PWQ	0380730596	897738681	American Tragedy	Books	5	68	70	N	N	TOTALLY FASCINATING AND ENDLESSLY PROVACATIVE	I was amused by one reviewer who considered Schiller an appalling human being for capitalizing on such a tragedy.  There were similar, if not quite as vitriolic, opinions expressed by other reviewers.  All I can say is -- if you were so offended by the Simpson case, and an author who chose to write about it - why on earth would you buy a 900+ book about the subject?  I, on the other hand, found this book absolutely absorbing.  At the start I should say that nothing in this book swayed my opinion that O.J. Simpson committed both murders.  This book was not dedicated to the defense.  It did appear that Mr. Schiller got a lot more assistance from the defense side, but he writes a fairly balanced narrative, showing the strengths and the weaknesses of both sides.  The one character who actually comes out looking pretty bad is O.J. himself.  He is egotistical, narcissistic, termperamental and fully in denial of what he has done.  This comes out clearly in the book.  I work in the local District Attorney's Office where I live, and was thoroghly captivated by the intense coverage of the trial, as well as the behind the scenes activities of both sides.  I learned as much about some of the key witnesses as I did about the key players.  If anything from this book affected my outlook on the case, it gave me a little more understanding about the jury.  Even will compelling and undeniable evidence (specifically the blood evidence), they were so bombarded with conflicting facts from both Prosecution and Defense, that as typical, ordinary citizens, they lost sight of the big picture.  In short, they were pretty much overwhelmed with facts.  As you read this book, you begin to feel their frustration.  A highly educated person could probably have read between the lines and sifted through the junk to find the truth, but these people had been sequestered for months.  They wanted to go home.  They had had enough.  I read Mr. Schiller's other book:  &quot;Perfect Murder, Perfect Town&quot;, and am still amazed by his ability to take minute facts and somehow make the story interesting.  One can almost pretend this is novel taken from someone's overactive imagination. But the bottom line is - Mr. Schiller sticks to facts.  He does not choose sides, and he does not paint Mr. Simpson as a victim.  The facts speak for themselves, and if we don't like them, well, that is not Mr. Schiller's responsibility.  He did an admirable job with an awful lot of information.  I could not put it down, even knowing the ending.  And I was pleasantly surprised to find that the last part of the book dealt with the civil trial, which I knew very little about.  If you have already formed a strong opinion about Simpson's guilt or innocence, this book will probably not change that.  You will, however, get a fascinating look into what made everyone tick, what went wrong, and what tricks drove the verdict of the criminal trial.  And be honest with yourself that this will always be a compelling and fascinating piece of history, and there is no shame in having an interest in it.  I recommend this book whole-heartedly.	2001-03-02
US	53063937	R17IC871S1KWEY	0446605581	130563858	Fat Tuesday	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Entertaining Read but Not a Lot of Substance	This book was given to me by an elderly friend.  She knows I enjoy police mysteries.  When I saw it was written by Sandra Brown, I became skeptical.  She is a well known romance writer, and I do NOT enjoy romances.  My friend assured me that it was more of a mystery than a romance, and since I was going on vacation I decided to take and give it a try.  In all fairness, much of the book tries to deviate from being a tradional romance.  The male lead, Burke Basile, is not a muscle bound bad boy.  He is actually a rather tragic figure, having lost his partner in a shooting he felt responsible for.  His marriage is destroyed, and he decides with nothing to lose, he will destroy those who were utlimately responsible for his partner's death, and Burke's downfall.  The female lead, Remy Duvall, is no bimbo either.  She is intelligent, charming and strong.  Probably the most likable character in the book is Dredd, the kind but curmudgeonly hermet who makes his home in the bayou.  His connection to Basile becomes known in the book.  I won't ruin it for the potential reader here.  There is a lot of action and suspense, but unfortunately, the story falls into the same predictability that so many of this genre do.  Things resolve themselves through umprobable circumstances, all too neatly put together.  Nonetheless, for a light and fast read, this is enjoyable.  Ms. Brown cannot quite leave her romance roots behind, and perhaps she shouldn't.  It is, after all, her strong suit. The plot is clever, Pinky Duvall is a deliciously nasty bad guy, and all in all, it makes for an entertaining weekend read.  It has not, however, changed my mind about romances!	2001-01-14
US	53063937	R19Z5RXXN9JHE	0892967269	332779254	Beneath the Skin	Books	3	1	2	N	Y	ENTERTAINING BUT FLAWED	Although I only gave this book three stars, I do have to confess that it was an entertaining read. The story is essentially divided up into three parts, each one spoken by a different character. These three characters are connected by a serial killer and the authorities who are trying to catch him. French does an admirable job in creating three very distinct voices. The reader almost feels like each part was written by a different author. I really enjoyed the first third of the story, as described by Zoe, the first victim. The plot develops and the reader becomes involved in the story. Unfortunately, it goes downhill after that. The next two victims, Jennifer and Nadia, are two of the most irritating female characters I have ever encountered. Jennifer is spoiled, whiny and self-absorbed. She has no redeeming characteristics to overcome her bad qualities. Altough she is a former hand model, and presumably beautifuly, it is hard to imagine what even a serial killer sees in her. Nadia is an arrogant know-it-all, whose self-righteousness wears very thin. I suspect she is supposed to be the strongest character, but she is merely obnoxious. By the time I got to Nadia, I was seriously questioning the killer's taste in women. Still, if the reader can ignore the irritation quotient of these two characters, the story is entertaining. It is a predictable who-done-it that moves quickly. It isn't rocket science, but it makes for good late night reading.	2000-12-09
US	53063937	R3EE2M87PT753V	0151006261	582044302	Under the Skin	Books	4	15	18	N	N	Put On Your Seatbelts for a Bumpy Ride!	Imagine picking up a book, that on its surface, appears to be a bizarre thriller involving a mysterious woman who picks up strong male hitchhikers with an agenda not made obvious at first.  You think &quot;this sounds kind of fun and kinky&quot; and so you start reading, expecting nothing more than a mundane road story with predictable twists and turns.  However, in fairly short order, you find yourself turned upside down, without even remembering how you got there.  I think I understand how Alice felt after falling down the rabbit hole.  Nothing is what it seems.  Michael Faber has written a story which is nothing short of mythical.  It redefines who we are as human beings (if, in fact we ARE human beings).  The story is a blending of simple reality and mind-boggling fantasy.  Ultimately, we are unable to determine which is which.  As other reviewers have noted, it is not a fast read.  But in order to shed our own prejudices and expectations about this story, it needs to be read slowly and deliberately.  Isserley, the main character of the story, evokes such an array of emotions from the reader:  admiration, irritation, sometimes downright dislike.  As different as she is ultimately found to be, she is representative of Everywoman, only from a very unique perspective.  I would have liked to have read more about the characters' backgrounds and how they came to be what they were.  But that may not have been in Mr. Faber's plan in writing the book.  Even so, it is a unique, disturbing and thought-provoking experience. Certainly not for everyone, but for any reader who wants something different.  I really enjoyed it, even if I didn't completely understand it all.  I understood enough!	2000-11-23
US	53063937	RZ7YZ70SQOHFU	0553580930	101241499	A Man in Full	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Hilarious, and Not Nearly Long Enough	A rather sad thing has just happened to me.  I finished Thomas Wolfe's &quot;Man in Full&quot;  Why is that sad?  Because for the past several weeks (with a full time job, kids, a house, numerous animals to care for I don't have a lot of time to read) I have totally lost myself in this book.  At first the sheer size of it was daunting - most very long books become wearisome towards the end.  Not so &quot;A Man in Full&quot;.  Wolfe has taken several plots, very different and apparently unrelated and alternated their development in relatively rapid cycles, as they progress to their inevitable convergence as the book comes to a close.  Each sub-plot on its own would have made a good book.  Wolfe's acidic tongue and flawless sense of satire ensures that.  But to enjoy several sub-plots weaving seamlessly back and forth, wondering how on earth all these characters will somehow connect, is what makes this book so readable.  This is one of those &quot;laugh aloud&quot; books.  The characters, no matter how wicked or flawed, are totally entertaining.  It is Thomas Wolff as I remember him in &quot;Bonfire of the Vanities&quot; and &quot;Electric Koolaid Acid Test&quot;.  As I finished the last paragraph, I felt almost compelled to say &quot;good bye&quot; to all the characters I had come to know so well, so much did I feel a part of the story.  If you have a lot of time you can probably read this book fairly quickly.  Each story line moves quickly enough so that the reader is never bored.  If you are like me, and have fairly limited reading time, don't worry.  I actually was grateful not to have to rush through the book. And now I feel like I'm leaving a really fun party before I'm quite ready to do so!  Thomas Wolff, you have done it again.  What a fun and enjoyable read!!!!!!	2000-10-01
US	53063937	R3V2E6H55XABRJ	0446607738	702895641	Toyer	Books	3	3	4	N	N	A Ghoulish but Intriguing Story	The premise behind this book is mind-boggling - a psychopath who doesn't kill, but rather leaves his victims in a state of physical perfection,  while totally destroying their minds.  This book had all the promise of a  really compelling story.  Unfortunately, many of the characters were at  best irritating.  Maud Garance, the psychiatrist who tries to help Toyer's  victims, and one of the books main characters, was especially unpleasant.   Actually, the one character who was fairly likeable was Toyer himself.  The  book was written in an almost subdued, languid style, which contrasted  nicely with the gruesome subject matter. However, this languid style begins  to drag towards the end of the book, and I found myself impatient for  things to happen.  All criticism aside, it was entertaining and unusual.   Perhaps not one of the best I've read, but well worth the time spent  reading.	2000-08-09
US	53063937	R3DPEMUOCK8PQZ	0380978202	110781955	Mouth to Mouth	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Don't Plan on Being Interrupted While Reading This	I read Michael Kimball's previous book, Undone, quite a while ago.  It was, to say the least, one of the most convoluted, exciting and suspenseful books I had ever read.  When Mouth to Mouth came out, I bought it, although  I wondered if Kimball could match Undone.  No problem.  This book has the  same kind of serpentine plot, with twists and turns from page to page.  The  developing evil creeps up on the reader until suddenly all hell breaks  loose, and you wonder, &quot;What happened! &quot;  Definitely  recommended for readers who like their plots fast, exciting and  unpredictable.  I can't wait until Mr. Kimball comes out with his next  book.	2000-07-16
US	53063937	R3JHJVLMXV0IU	0515128325	745196576	After the Fall	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A MOVING, BEAUTIFULLY CRAFTED STORY	Imagine you are home with what you believe to be your normal, loving family, when suddenly the police arrive to arrest your son, charging him with a heinous crime.  What would you do?  This is the crisis facing Jessie  Magill and her family.  It is any parent's worst nighmare.  What follows is  a beautifully crafted psychological study of a family's unraveling and  their attempts to re-weave the fabric of their existence in the face of  almost overwhelming odds.  Kelman has created some unforgetable characters,  both likable and despicable.  One of the most memorable is Dr. Chow, a  pearls-of-wisdom spouting forensic genius.  I gave this book a 4 star  instead of a 5 star rating, because, like others who reviewed it, I was  disappointed by the ending.  It wound down too quickly, leaving the reader  less than satisfied.  Overall, however, it is well worth reading, and I  enjoyed it tremendously.	2000-07-04
US	53063937	R10ZGFM9SCWSAD	0553579134	53360710	First Evidence	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A FAST, FUN, SUSPENSFUL EXPERIENCE	I havn't read anything by Mr. Goddard before, so I have nothing to compare this book to.  On its own merits, however, it is immensely entertaining.  An interesting combination of police forensics  and science fiction, it  kept me reading well past any reasonable bed time.  Sprinkled throughout  with dry humor, this book provided me with many hours of reading enjoyment.   I'm not normally a fan of sci fi, but I am enormously interested in police  procedures and forensics.  If you can suspend some degree of belief, this  book really works.  The characters are well drawn, and the enemy  sufficiently spooky to give the reader a chill or two.  There is enough  blood for those who like their books somewhat gory, but not so much to put  off the more discriminating reader.  All in all, it is a fast and fun read.  preferably read on a dark and stormy night . . .	2000-06-22
US	53063937	RZL0MXTMDO4TW	067945960X	625404653	Monster: A Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	Y	Suspensful and Entertaining	I have read many of Kellerman's books.  Some I have really enjoyed but others didn't do a lot for me.  This book, however, was vastly enjoyable.  I work in criminal justice and I have a degree in psychology (emphasis on  abnormal psychology), so a novel involving police procedures and  psychological abnormalities seemed right up my alley. I was not  disappointed.  Kellerman's regulars, Alex Davenport and Milo Sturgis, are  at their best, trying to solve an old murder and at the same time unlock  the mind of a profoundly disturbed inmate at a mental facility.  Sturgis is  still one of my favorite law enforcement characters, at once dry and  acerbic but entirely likable.  Davenport is smoother, but the two play off  each other very effectively.  There were moments when I actually laughed  out loud (drawing odd looks from my husband). At times the story becomes  somewhat predictable, but it is completely entertaining nonetheless. I  highly recommend it to anyone who enjoys a good suspensful read with plenty  of humor and some very memorable characters.	2000-06-10
US	53063937	R34SQXDJDRAE83	0375401881	532250528	God Is a Bullet	Books	5	8	12	N	Y	NIGHTMARE RIDE THROUGH HELL	I wish there were more than five stars, for I would surely give this book the highest possible rating.  It is at once horrifying, disturbing and likely to offend many readers.  However, for those readers, of which I am  one, who can take themselves out of their comfortable, mundane existences  and allow themselves to accept that true evil exists in this world, and  that heroes are not always pure and righteous, but often damaged, as are  the protagonists in this story, then this book will enthrall and captivate.   This book has graphic violence, and acts so evil that the reader is left  gasping.  And yet there is utlimately a sense of redemption at the end.   The effects of this book will not soon leave you.  There is nothing pretty  here, but the raw courage of both Case and Hightower, and their ability, in  spite of their own intense demons, left me to admire them more than the  usual &quot;good guy&quot; protagonists of many other thrillers.  It has  been several weeks since I read this book, and the experience is still with  me.  Boston Teran is a tremendous talent, and I will eagerly await any new  books he may write.	2000-05-17
US	53063937	RIB17NR0R5R4F	0670878847	660269339	The Most Wanted	Books	5	6	6	N	N	LYRICAL AND TOUCHING	There are two kinds of books that make me read fast:  A very good book that I can't put down and race through to see what happens; and a very bad book that I zip through just to get it over with.  This book actually  inspired me to read very slowly, savoring each word like a sip of good  brandy.  In spite of the controversial subject matter, there is an  innocence and purity about this story.  In fact, Arlington reminds me quite  a bit of my own 15 year old daughter, who is both naive and hopelessly  romantic and incredibly beautiful.  I have given her this book to read, and  look forward to hearing her opinion.  If the reader can get past the their  prejudices about adult/adolescent relationships (we somehow accept Romeo  and Juliet who were just children!)then we can allow ourselves to feel the  deep love between two very different people - a love that ultimately  becomes destructive.  Nor is the idea of a 14-year old girl falling in love  with a hardened older guy at all incomprensible.  It is probably the  fantasy of many of our young teen daughters.  Mitchard's ability to so  accurately evoke the feelings of a young, budding girl/woman in the flush  of first love is astounding.  By the same token her rendering of Annie, a  slightly cynical adult captivated by Arley, gives a wonderful contrast.   The story weaves back and forth between Annie and Arley.  And so, I found  myself ready very slowly, losing myself in this emotionally charged story,  in no rush to leave two women I had come to admire.  I also find myself  looking at my young daughter differently - I take her feelings much more  seriously and realize that as young as she is, she is capable of deeper  feelings that we adults would otherwise give credit to.  Thank you,  Jaqueline Mitchard, for a magical, tragic, but ultimately uplifting  experience for this reader!	2000-04-01
US	53063937	R1TEDBLV5MMEPZ	0609602934	59736501	The Descent: A Novel	Books	5	13	15	N	Y	Compelling and Imaginative Interpretation of Hell	I take the time to write a review only for those books that Ihave been significantly affected by, either positively or negatively.I just finished this book, and can truthfully say it was one of the most compelling and fascinating novels I have read in some time.  I am the daughter of a Rabbi, married to a degreed philosopher, so theology and philosophy are topics near and dear to my heart.  I started this book with an open mind as to its format.  My husband had already listened to the Audio version and thoroughly enjoyed it.  If you read this book hoping for unending adventure, an &quot;Indiana Jones&quot; type plot, you will be disappointed.  While there are many instances of pure action and suspense, much of the book deals with archeological, theological and philosophical theories that are more difficult to breeze through.  But those are the very things that held me captive all throughout the book.  Do not assume this will be an easy read.  It's not.  But it is well worth the effort.  Ending the book felt somewhat like emerging from the underworld - it was a little hard to return to mundane reality.  Definitely a winner in my book.	1999-11-14
US	53063937	R24PZ9TM0MZDL6	0380787709	972305722	Dark Horse	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Fast and Fun	I am amused by some of the negative reviews which accuse this book of being too outlandish and unbelievable.  I love to read, and when I pick up a book I want to be entertained.  Reality checks are not a prerequisite.  And there is a lot in this book that outrageously defies reality.  Which is why it is so much fun to read.  I zipped through this book, laughing out loud (which made my poor husband believe I had gone over the edge).  Shakespeare McCann is so unbelievably evil you almost gotta love him.  (I see Jack Nicholson playing him in the movie, if it is made).  I don't think the author expects anyone to take this book as a serious indictment of our political system.  This is pure and simple entertainment.  To take it seriously is to ruin the fun.  Just read it for the sheer enjoyment of a good yarn.	1998-06-03
US	53063937	RD3KU3MSU48RY	0385492081	82772270	Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mt. Everest Disaster	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Deeply disturbing but endlessly compelling	I just now finished reading this book.  I have also read through most of the reviews.  Clearly this book has had a profound effect, either positive or negative, on almost all who have read it.  I feel as breathless as the climbers must have felt at 28,000 feet.  One thing that I will not presume to do is to judge anyone involved in the expedition.  I cannot begin to comprehend what motivates someone to undertake such a potentially physically and emotionally destructive course of action.  Many activities involve risk (I jump horses - you have only to look at Christopher Reeve to appreciate the risks involved in that activity).  But high altitude climbing seems to involve far more than risk -- it is comparable to Russian Roulette.  No matter how prepared a climber is, they are constantly faced with lifethreatening situations, if not from the mountain, than from their own bodies and minds. And how can the majority of us, who have never even come close to what a high altitude climber faces, even begin to judge why any given person acted the way the did?  How would we, faced with imminent death, with our minds not working with all cylindars, act or react?  Even the shocking episode where the Japanese group ignored injured and dying climbers had to be taken in context.  We at sea level cannot even comprehend how this could have happened.  But one has to wonder what type of person risks their life in order to endure torture beyond anything we can imagine with the sole purpose of making it to the top of a mountain, for all of a few minutes of glory, then face further risk and torture on the return trip.  These are thinking processes I don't pretend to understand, and therefore, feel I cannot judge.  This book may make you angry, or sad, or bewildered. But it will NOT leave you feeling neutral.   It's like a sock in the gut that empties all the air out of your lungs.  Unlike many of the reviewers who revile the author for making money off this story, I feel it is a story that had to be told, and Mr. Krakauer! 's lyrical narrative is the perfect voice to tell it.  He is, after all, a writer, and writers do get paid for their work.  I know I feel richer for having read this book.  And I know it will be a very long time before it's effects have worn off.  Try to read this book without trying to figure out who was right and who was wrong.  Just read it for the visceral impact it will have on you.  And pray that no one near and dear to you ever decides to become involved in high altitude climbing.	1998-05-22
US	53063937	R1UUTOX4XW61QE	0451190904	786571932	Survivor	Books	5	12	13	N	N	ELEGANT AND COMPELLING	This is not a book for readers who want a quick plot and fast action.  Rather, this is a book to savor and experience.  It is a character study more than a tightly wrapped story.  The author is clever by grabbing the reader in the beginning of the book with a horrible accident and its aftermath.  In my case, once the book got my attention, even as it began to meander into the psyches of its characters, I was hooked.  The characters are at once compelling and totally infuriating, especially Kissy, the female lead.  There were times when I thought &quot;You go girl!&quot; and times when I wanted to reach into the book and slap her for her thick-headedness.  But no matter how I felt about any of the characters, I was emotionally drawn into the story, which is always a satisfying experience when reading.  It was easy to become totally lost in the book - I would often be reading into the wee hours of the morning.  This book may not be for everyone, but for me it was one of the best books I have read in quite a while.  I actually slowed my reading down towards the end, because I just wasn't quite ready to let go.  Again, don't just read this book - experience it.	1998-04-18
