US	53066131	RSNMC8E77Y78R	047171996X	923032507	Battle for Europe: How the Duke of Marlborough Masterminded the Defeat of the French at Blenheim	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Excellent  History	\\"Battle for Europe\\" by Charles Spencer is a riveting account of the great battle fought at Blenheim between Allied forces under the command of John Churchill, Duke of Marlborough, and the French Army of Louis XIV on August 13, 1704. This is a splendidly told story, not only covering this pivotal battle but the events leading up to it and the main characters involved, including my favourite, Prince Eugene of Savoy.<br /><br />This battle possibly changed the course of European history with the near destruction of Louis XIV's army. Up to this point the French Army under the command of many capable marshals had never been beaten. It was virtually unstoppable until it met Marlborough, the Captain-General of the armies fighting against France. In this book Charles Spencer describes the outcome of that meeting at Blenheim.<br /><br />The story telling is first-rate, the narrative flows fast and smoothly, is packed full of information but never over-loads the reader with too much. The colour plates are excellent and the maps sufficient for the story however I would have appreciated maybe a few more.<br /><br />The account of the fighting is excellent and once you start reading it's hard to stop. The narrative drags you into the fighting as the allied infantry assaults the villages of Blenheim and Oberglau and then mass in the centre for the decisive offensive that was to break the back of the French forces. In the end the allies lost 12,000 men killed and wounded but the French lost more than three times that number.<br /><br />This is an excellent account and adds much to the military history of this period, no decent library should be without a copy on their shelves	2005-06-05
US	53066131	R3R80HAL76T5JX	0375508252	478435482	Eleventh Month, Eleventh Day, Eleventh Hour: Armistice Day, 1918, World War I and Its Violent Climax	Books	4	15	16	N	N	A Captivating Book,  Well  Worth Reading	\\"11th Month, 11th Day, 11th Hour\\" by Joseph Persico is an interesting and captivating book covering not only the final moments of the Great War but also offering a general history of the war from its beginning in 1914. The author follows a number of characters, great and small, throughout the narrative. We follow the paths and final fate of a number of soldiers from America, Britain, France, and Germany. We also get glimpses of those who control their destiny, Foch, Haig, Hindenburg and Pershing.<br /><br />The story is well told and you'll find yourself following the lives of these men and women intensely, mostly with the knowledge of what is to come but still drawn into the final agonising moments before the end. The book can jump about a little, from 1914 to 1918, as mentioned by previous reviewers, however I did not find that this detracted from the story and felt it worked well enough.<br /><br />The book has received a few negative reviews in my country (Australia), mainly for the fact that the author tends to miss the other allies (Australia & New Zealand) who were fighting along side the Americans.  The Australian Imperial Force (AIF) served from 1915 to 1918 on the Western Front and as a whole suffered a casualty rate of 65%, the highest of any Allied army in WW1.  However I can see that this book has been written mainly for an American audience and I think it has done well.<br /><br />The author's intent, to show the terribly tragedy of that final day, the waste of soldiers lives by Generals in an attempt to comply with criminal inept and stupid orders from higher up comes through strongly.  Regardless of which nation those soldiers served, it's a well-told story and one that needed to be told.<br /><br />I have read a quite a number of books on the Great War but this is one of the first to bring home the futility of some of the actions carried out by supposedly intelligent leaders & commanders. I hope that we never forget the sacrifice made by all the combatants, willing or not, in this most terrible War.l the combatants, willing or not, in this most terrible War. <br />	2005-04-30
US	53066131	R1LGEH3Z4OQU0X	1840222530	76735309	HUSSAR GENERAL: The Life of Blucher, Man of Waterloo (Wordsworth Military Library)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Concise but Excellent Military Biography	Roger Parkinson's short but highly readable biography of Field Marshal Blucher, \\"The Hussar General\\" is a great story. Originally published in 1975 and although only 264 pages in length he still manages to tell an interesting and fast paced account of this most interesting Prussian General. The book is packed with accounts of the battles and skirmishes that Blucher participated in during the battles of the French Revolutionary Wars and the later on during the Napoleonic Wars.<br /><br />This is not an in-depth biography so don't expect too much detail in relation to the early life of Blucher, its mainly a military biography and covers that aspect of this great man's life adequately. To the military reader this book will provide an exciting story of a general that fought more battles against Napoleon Bonaparte than any other General. The narrative comes alive with accounts from participants in this exciting and horrifying but fascinating and bloody, period.<br /><br />The book covers all his major actions and offers the reader a decent overview of his career. The story is well told and a number of maps are provided to assist the reader to follow the narrative although they are not of a high standard. Overall this is a great introduction to the life and times of General Gebhard Leberecht von Blucher.	2005-04-13
US	53066131	R2J41KXTNCB161	0297846094	81592584	Blenheim: Battle for Europe	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Excellent Account of this Great Battle	\\"Blenheim: Battle for Europe\\" by Charles Spencer is a riveting account of that great battle fought between Allied forces under the command of John Churchill, Duke of Marlborough, and the French Army of Louis XIV on August 13, 1704. This is a splendidly told story, not only covering this pivotal battle but the events leading up to it and the main characters involved, including my favourite, Prince Eugene of Savoy.<br /><br />This battle possibly changed the course of European history with the near destruction of Louis XIV's army. Up to this point the French Army under the command of many capable marshals had never been beaten. It was virtually unstoppable until it met Marlborough, the Captain-General of the armies fighting against France. In this book Charles Spencer describes the outcome of that meeting at Blenheim.<br /><br />The story telling is first-rate, the narrative flows fast and smoothly, is packed full of information but never over-loads the reader with too much. The colour plates are excellent and the maps sufficient for the story however I would have appreciated maybe a few more.<br /><br />The account of the fighting is excellent and once you start reading it's hard to stop. The narrative drags you into the fighting as the allied infantry assaults the villages of Blenheim and Oberglau and then mass in the centre for the decisive offensive that was to break the back of the French forces. In the end the allies lost 12,000 men killed and wounded but the French lost more than three times that number.<br /><br />This is an excellent account and adds much to the military history of this period, no decent library should be without a copy on their shelves.	2005-03-05
US	53066131	R1HBFNEV3T2D0K	0471675016	344997001	Nero's Killing Machine: The True Story of Rome's Remarkable 14th Legion	Books	4	48	49	N	N	Decent and Enjoyable Account	This is Stephen Dando-Collins second book covering the history of a Roman legion, this time he deals with the Fourteenth Legion (14th Gemina Martia Vietrix Legion). I thoroughly enjoyed this author's first book, \\"Caesar's Legion: The Epic Saga of Julius Caesar's Elite Tenth Legion\\", so I eagerly awaited the publication of this title.  Again I must confess that I have no in-depth knowledge of this period, just a keen and general interest.<br /><br />I found this book as good as the first, in fact, even better. The one criticism I have is the author's usage of modern military titles instead of those used by the Roman Empire. I had little or no knowledge of the 14th Legion but I found the story fascinating, from its decimation in 54 BC while campaign with Julius Caesar through it's campaign in Germany and latter in Britain where it achieved its immortal fame in putting down the rebellion led by Queen Boudicca.<br /><br />The narrative is full of interesting accounts and information and the story flows along quite smoothly. There are no illustrations within the book and only a few maps which I think could have been of better quality but suffice to follow the story of the 14th legion.<br /><br />Overall I think this book would be of interest to anyone who enjoys a decent account of the Roman Empire. It's more of a popular history, and not some stuffy dry text of military manoeuvres, tactics and famous commanders of antiquity but an account of the men who did the fighting and dying and who made the Roman Empire what is was.	2005-03-05
US	53066131	RWSMDHQRJTITH	1592285708	12196374	Forgotten Voices of the Great War: A History of World War I in the Words of the Men and Women Who Were There	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Excellent First-Hand Accounts  from WW1	Max Arthur's book covering the Great War is quite unique in that its content is nearly all first-hand accounts from people who experienced the horror of the Great War. The author has utilized a number of tape recorded interviews conducted by the Imperial War Museum in 1972. Many of the tapes from the Imperial War Museum Sound Archive had been forgotten and left unheard for years.<br /><br />Now Max Arthur has put together many of these unheard voices from the Great War to produce this spellbinding and captivating book. I must admit that I was reluctant to buy this book as I was worried that a book full of short accounts would be too disjointed and really not detailed enough to satisfy my interest. I can honestly say that I truly enjoyed reading this book.<br /><br />Each chapter of the book was a year of the Great War and was commenced by an introduction by the author offering a brief run down on the major events of that year. Then we heard from the men and women who participated in these events, from both sides of no-man's land. The author has concentrated mainly on the Western Front and Gallipoli and has tried to run the oral segments in chronological order.<br /><br />I was really taken by these segments and I found it hard to stop reading. The accounts from these soldiers and civilians alike were at times humorous, strikingly direct, horrifying and on many occasions quite sad. I was really taken in by these accounts and I don't think that any World War One library would be complete without this title sitting on the shelf. I can honestly say that I learnt quite a few things from this book and I would place it along side such works offered by Lyn MacDonald. Well done to the author and the Imperial War Museum for allowing these veterans, many now long dead, the last word on their experiences in the Great War. This is a great book, you won't be disappointed.	2005-02-27
US	53066131	R3GESFLF6SBDJ6	0732910897	104314197	Gallipoli	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Best Recent Account  of this WW1  Battle	Les Carlyon's new book (published in 2001 in Australia) covering the Allied campaign against Turkey in the Dardanelles is one of those books that you find hard to put down once you start. In over 540 pages of narrative we get to hear the soldiers speak of their terrible trials and tribulations fighting in a harsh environment against a formidable enemy.<br /><br />The book's main focus is upon the Australian involvement but the author does not neglect the role of the other Allied contingents, soldiers and sailors of the British and French Empires. Nor does his forget the enemy, 'Johnny Turk', who many Australian soldiers later came to respect regardless of the horrific fighting that they had endured.<br /><br />I suppose many people will ask why Australia continues to make such a fuss over Gallipoli. When you take into consideration that the Australia of 1914 sent out of its small population over 332,000 men to serve overseas and of those 215,000 or more became casualties, (of which 60,000 died). A casualty rate of 65 per cent. Taking those figures into consideration you get an idea of why WW1 and particular Gallipoli means so much to many Australians.<br /><br />The book is well told and the author uses numerous first-hand accounts of the soldiers, from both sides, who fought during this campaign. The narrative is engrossing, full of interesting facts and stories and just pulls you along further and deeper towards an ending we all know but made more alive and new by the author's style of writing.<br /><br />I don't think that this book will offer any serious readers of this campaign anything new or startling, but I think that anyone who has a passion for Gallipoli will find this a well told account and close to being the definitive book on the subject. Many aspects of the book, particularly the stories of the blunders made by the Allied High Command still make me shake my head even though I have read it all before.<br /><br />\\"We mounted over a plateau and down through gullies filled with thyme, where there lay about 4000 Turkish dead. It was indescribable. One was grateful for the rain and the grey sky. A Turkish Red Crescent man came and gave me some antiseptic wool with scent on it... The Turkish captain with me said: \\"At this spectacle even the most gentle must feel savage, and the most savage must weep' ... I talked to the Turks, one of whom pointed to the graves. 'That's politics,' he said. Then he pointed to the dead bodies and said: 'That's diplomacy. God pity all us poor soldiers.'\\" - Captain Aubrey Herbert, ANZAC, May 1915 (taken from the inside dust-jacket of the book).d down through gullies filled with thyme, where there lay about 4000 Turkish dead. It was indescribable. One was grateful for the rain and the grey sky. A Turkish Red Crescent man came and gave me some antiseptic wool with scent on it... The Turkish captain with me said: \\"At this spectacle even the most gentle must feel savage, and the most savage must weep' ... I talked to the Turks, one of whom pointed to the graves. 'That's politics,' he said. Then he pointed to the dead bodies and said: 'That's diplomacy. God pity all us poor soldiers.'\\" - Captain Aubrey Herbert, ANZAC, May 1915 (taken from the inside dust-jacket of the book).  <br /> <br />	2005-02-27
US	53066131	R1FO64K15QHEYM	1401300472	211148233	Race to the Pole: Tragedy, Heroism, and Scott's Antarctic Quest	Books	5	24	29	N	N	Excellent Biography of a Great Man	I have not had the chance to post many reviews at Amazon for some time now but after reading this excellent biography I had to sit straight down and start typing. This new biography on Captain Scott by Ranulph Fiennes will rank in my top ten books for 2003 (released in Australia last year). I have to confess that I have no in-depth knowledge on artic travel and exploration other than having read a few good books on the subject.<br /><br />Having said that, out of the books that I have read on the subject this has to be the best so far. In any book I read I always have a look at the background (or pedigree) of the author. In this case Ranulph Fiennes has the personal experience of many years of artic travel & exploration to back up his claims and theories in his account of Captain Scott.<br /><br />By referring to his own experiences in the same areas and similar circumstances you get a much better idea of what was possible and why and what wasn't possible and why. He also is able to put to rest many of the myths and fairy tales surrounding Scott's South Pole expedition and the fate of himself and his companions.<br /><br />After finishing this book I really felt I had a much better understanding of what these brave men attempted and why they failed or didn't fail depending on your point of view. As other reviews have indicated, maybe the author tends to lean to Captain Scott's defence too much but then again maybe Captain's Scott's reputation needs to be picked up from the dust of history and given a good polish again, its well deserved.<br /><br />I would have no hesitation in recommending this book to anyone who wants to know what really happened to Captain Scott. Anyone who enjoys accounts of adventure, of man overcoming adversity or just a decent history book to read, this will suit them down-to-the-ground. I am indebted to the author for passing on his passion for this man, I have learnt a few things and I am grateful that I had the opportunity to read such a well-researched and well-written book, well done to Mr Fiennes!<br /><br />From the back cover: \\"The real story of one of the greatest explorers who ever lived by the man described by the Guinness Book of Records as the world's greatest living explorer.\\"such a well-researched and well-written book, well done to Mr Fiennes! <br /> <br />From the back cover: \\"The real story of one of the greatest explorers who ever lived by the man described by the Guinness Book of Records as the world's greatest living explorer.\\" <br />	2004-08-16
US	53066131	R1M5CJBGMJLMU6	029784671X	862827062	The Last Valley: Dien Bien Phu and the French Defeat in Vietnam	Books	5	90	91	N	N	The Best Account of this Battle so Far	&quot;The Last Valley: Dien Bien Phu and the French Defeat in Vietnam&quot; by Martin Windrow is destined to be the definite account of this tragic battle. I knew as soon as I saw this title in the bookshop that I had to have it and it was one of the best purchases I have made so far this year!<br />This is an excellent and detailed account of the fighting in the Valley of Dien Bien Phu between the professional French forces, including Legionnaire and elite Parachute Units, and the Vietnamese Bo Doi (Viet Minh) led by General Giap.<br />The author takes the time to explain the military and political settings of the war in Indo China, offers detailed accounts of the opposing forces and commanders and provides a well researched narrative of the events leading up to this battle. The story of the battle itself for Dien Bien Phu is a classic military narrative that really pulls the reader into the story and gives us a rare insight into the hardships of the French soldier and his enemy.<br />One quote in the book that was used for a chapter heading by Colonel de Castries says a lot about this battle and the terrible fighting involved; &quot;It's a bit like Verdun, but Verdun without the depth of defence, and, above all, without the Sacred Way&quot;. This is an excellent account of a shocking battle and I am sure that anyone who enjoys reading or studying military history will find this book an excellent addition to his or her library.<br />In over 657 pages of text, along with 22 maps of varying size and detail the author offers the reader a well researched and well presented account of this famous battle. At no time did I find the story boring or bogged down in detail. The narrative is fast paced, exciting and filled with human tragedy and numerous stories of soldier?s courage in the face of horrendous conditions.<br />In closing this is what Max Hastings had to say about this book: &quot;This is an outstanding work of military history. It tells the story of the ghastly French experience in Indo-China in a way that has never been done before in English. The account of Dien Bien Phu is a masterpiece of meticulous historical narrative.&quot;y French experience in Indo-China in a way that has never been done before in English. The account of Dien Bien Phu is a masterpiece of meticulous historical narrative.&quot;	2004-07-15
US	53066131	R3QNP53KQ4KRGY	1557506922	253116387	The Burning of Washington: The British Invasion of 1814	Books	4	5	7	N	Y	Decent Account of the Burning of Washington in 1814	'The Burning of Washington' by Anthony Pitch is a detailed and well written account of the British invasion of 1814 during which the British defeated the opposing American forces before marching into the Capital and putting parts of Washington to the torch, including the White House. This book is a most enjoyable read and in my mind is as good as Walter Lord's book 'The Dawn's Early Light' which was first published in the early 1970's.<br />The book covers the Battle of Bladensburg, the abandonment of the Capital and its subsequent occupation and destruction by the British. The narrative then continues with the fighting around Baltimore and the end of the war after the British defeat at the Battle of New Orleans. The author also tells the story of Francis Scott Key and birth of the American national anthem, an interesting story in itself.<br />Anthony Pitch has used a number of first-hand accounts taken from the letters of participants on both sides of the conflict including, soldiers, sailors and civilians. Material has been utilised from diaries, journals and newspaper accounts to fill in this stirring and vivid narrative of this fascinating period of American history. Overall this is a decent piece of historical writing and I am sure that most people will enjoy the author's account of the invasion of 1814. The one negative point that I have to raise in regards to this book is the lack of detailed maps to follow the invading forces and the subsequent battles.	2003-09-07
US	53066131	R1I7ESGCBIOCZQ	1874622604	481184720	IN A RAGING INFERNO: Combat Units of the Hitler Youth 1944-45	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Excellent History of the Combat Units of the Hitler Youth	'In A Raging Inferno' is the true story of the combat units of the 'Hitler Youth' (Hitlerjugend) in the final year of World War Two. The author, who spent many years interviewing former members of the Hitler Youth, puts together a spellbinding story of these young boys and girls who were sent out to face the oncoming tanks of the Russian and Allied armies closing in on the borders of the Third Reich.<br />The unique photographs supplied within this book show boys as young as 10 armed with panzerfaust's waiting to meet advancing T-34 tanks. The story of what happened to these 'Hitler Youth' members is truly saddening. Many where never seen or heard from again and their fate can only be guessed at. Many of these children fought as hard as the combat veterans they were placed along side with in the foxholes and trenches defending the Reich.<br />Overall the author provides a truly spellbinding narrative of these \\"warrior children\\", the result is a fascinating and sometimes disturbing account packed with numerous first-hand accounts and rare photographs. The author has also provided a number of colour plates showing examples of clothing and equipment issued to the 'Hitler Youth'.	2003-09-07
US	53066131	R1L0RFJOEF6L6Q	1853674419	605871436	Napoleon's Campaign In Poland 1806-1807 (Greenhill Military Paperback)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Another Excellent Military Campaign Study	This book, following on from his engaging account of Napoleon's victory over Prussia in 1806, is Loraine Petre's second book in his series of five accounts covering Napoleon and his campaigns. This time the author offers the reader an in-depth military study of Napoleon's campaign in Poland. In this account we find Napoleon manoeuvring into Poland to meet the advancing Russian armies moving to assist the meagre Prussian forces left over after being defeated in detail by Napoleon and his Marshals.<br /><br />The author follows every move of this fascinating campaign and offers detailed insights into the battles fought during the terrible winter weather in Poland. We read about the bloody battle at Eylau and latter of Napoleon's crushing victory over the Russians at Friedland. Using numerous sources and first-hand accounts the reader gets a detailed military narrative and analysis of each skirmish and battle fought in this campaign.<br /><br />Again a word of caution, this book was first published in the early 1900's and the style of writing does take some getting used. However, once you have mastered the style the narrative moves along quite easily except for the occasional break to check the maps as you follow the converging armies in the hinterland of Poland. The maps (10) are not the best but detailed enough to locate the points mentioned and to follow the various movements in the battles. The author also provides a number of black and white plates of the personalities and locations mentioned in the narrative.<br /><br />Overall this is a very decent military study covering Napoleon's campaign in Poland where within six months he had beaten the Russian armies and forced the Russian Czar to sign a treaty at Tilsit. \\"Napoleon's Campaign in Poland is a brilliant overview of Napoleon's vaunted army confronting some of its most worthy opponents.\\" - From the back cover of the book.[[ASIN:0967098513 CRISIS IN THE SNOWS - Russia Confronts Napoleon : The Eylau Campaign 1806-1807]]	2003-07-26
US	53066131	R19O3ZL4Y4X0QC	1853671452	429078264	Napoleon's Conquest Of Prussia-Hardbound (Napoleonic Library)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Excellent Military Study	First published in 1907 in the United Kingdom, `Napoleon's Conquest of Prussia 1806' by Loraine Petre is a classic military history of one of Napoleon's great campaigns. The author has written five books on Napoleon and his campaigns and is recognised as one of the pre-eminent military historians of the early twentieth century. In this book, as in the others, he has utilised many first-hand accounts from the various participants to put together an interesting and detailed military study of Napoleons campaign.<br />This book is his first in the series of five titles published and in over 300 pages of narrative he tells the story of Napoleon's victory at Jena and Marshal Davout's triumph at Auerstadt on the 14th of October, 1806. The book then follows Napoleon's three-week relentless pursuit of the defeated Prussian forces in a classic military movement to destroy the armed might of Prussia once and for all. At the end of the campaign two-thirds of the Prussian army had been killed or made prisoner and four-fifths of Prussia was under Napoleon's control.<br />Bearing in mind that the book was written at the start of the twentieth century the style of writing contained in the narrative takes a little bit of getting use to but once you have adjusted to that period of time you find you are reading a classic military study. The book is supplied with three large fold-out maps to follow the different stages of the campaign and a number of black and white plates are also provided in the centre of the book.<br />Overall this is an interesting and enjoyable account of Napoleon's Prussian campaign of 1806 and as one previous reviewer has mentioned it makes a good starting point for further reading. For myself I enjoyed the book so much that I intend to read all five of the author's work.	2003-07-26
US	53066131	R28C166AD4JEFG	1403962316	183317051	The Peninsular War: A New History	Books	4	29	30	N	N	Detailed Account of the Peninsular Campaign	Charles Esdaile's new book on the Peninsular War offers readers a comprehensive and in-depth study of this savage conflict that raged across Spain and Portugal between 1808 and 1814. In over 510 pages of text the author takes us through the reasons why this war started, the battles and campaigns as it progressed over the years and the many interesting facets behind the characters involved. Not only does the author cover the military aspects in detail but also he does not neglect those other important factors such as the politics of the Spanish Junta, Guerilla warfare and the effects on the civilian population.<br />All the major battles and campaigns are covered and I found the author to be refreshingly non-biased in his writing, offering laurels to those armies, soldiers and commanders that deserved praise, regardless of origin. The maps supplied, 22 in number, were detailed enough to follow the narrative but they could have been of a higher quality. The illustrations, 28 in number, were excellent. The choice of pictures and their quality (all colour prints) was outstanding and made the book that little bit more special.<br />I must confess that at times the narrative appeared to bog down, mainly when covering the politics of the war. That's not the author's fault but mine, I tend to appreciate the military aspects of a story more. These areas covered by the author in this regard where quite important to the story but I was always itching to get back to the battlefield and to follow the movement of the French and British armies as they maneuvered for another pitched battle.<br />Overall this is a great book covering this most important Napoleonic campaign. The author utilises numerous first-hand accounts from participants, both military and civilian and they blend in perfectly with the narrative. Its one of the better one-volume accounts and I would rank it along side another one of my personal favorites, `The Spanish Ulcer' by David Gates. I am sure that anyone who appreciates military history will enjoy this new title by Charles Esdaile.o appreciates military history will enjoy this new title by Charles Esdaile.	2003-05-29
US	53066131	R1A6SMU6KF7H0U	1840370793	671243145	Luck and a Lancaster: Chance and Survival in World War II	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Excellent Account!	In his book `Luck and a Lancaster', Harry Yates offers the reader a chance to follow the author through his tour of operations as a Lancaster pilot during the last five months of 1944. The story begins with the author as a young English lad wanting to join the Royal Air Force to fly fighters just after the Battle of Britain (as all young English boys surely wanted!).<br />We follow Yates through his initial training at flight school and then into training for multi-engine aircraft in Canada, something he wasn't expecting. We then read of his exploits as an instructor and then finally his posting to a Operational RAF Squadron flying one of the great bombers of the Second World War, the Avro Lancaster.<br />Young Harry Yates ends up with 75 Squadron (RNZAF) based at Mepal in August of 1944 with a task of completing 30 operations against occupied Europe and Germany. Although by this period of the war the conflict in the air had swung towards the Allies it was still a very dangerous occupation flying in Bomber Command. This is the guts of the story, flying with Harry Yates and his crew in one of the many Lancaster's allotted to them through the 30 missions required to complete their tour of Ops.<br />I found this story truly amazing and it was so well told I was totally immersed in the narrative. I must admit it has been awhile since I have read such an interesting and captivating account of war in the air and I cannot imagine anyone who has an interesting in aerial warfare not being taken by this honest and enjoyable book.<br />Not once did I find the book bogging down in too much detail, not once did it flag or slow down in pace, even the author's account of his training and instructional flights were full of interest, humour and occasional sadness. This is a great testament to the young crews who flew in Bomber Command doing a job without question that cost many their lives. Well done to the author!	2003-05-16
US	53066131	RYESZ3HSRVOQL	1853102016	587122408	Air Battle of the Ruhr	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Decent Account of a Deadly Air Campaign	Alan Cooper's book, 'Air Battle of the Ruhr' offers the reader, in 137 pages of narrative, a concise account of the Royal Air Force's Bomber Command campaign against German industry situated in the Ruhr during 1943. This is by no means an in-depth account of this terrible air campaign but it is a good book to get an overview of the battle and an idea of what those who fought it went through. The book is 228 pages in length with numerous Appendixes and some illustrations.<br />The author provides accounts of each major mission flown by Bomber Command against targets in the Ruhr from March to July in 1943. He outlines the mission target, the number of bombers allocated to the mission, the role of each formation and the results of the bombing. Intermingled with these are numerous first-hand accounts by pilots and aircrew involved on the missions with a few accounts from their German night fighter opponents.<br />At times it appears that the story is some what disorganised, you get a short account that does not seem to fit in with the narrative, this is only on one or two occasions but is still slightly off-putting. However the story is interesting and you get a very good feel for what the aircrew of the British bombers went through. The stories provided by the survivors are at times harrowing, sad and occasionally amusing. The numerous accounts of planes and their crews never being seen again or being found many years after the war are quite sad.<br />One major section of this book that makes it worth buying and gives you a better understanding of how deadly this campaign was is Appendix 2. Here the author has listed every single aircraft lost during this campaign. He provides details of the Squadron, aircraft type and identity, and what happened to it (crashed, hit by flak, shot down by night fighter, etc). Further, the author lists the names of the crew for each aircraft lost and what happened to them. It's quite depressing to read the number that were killed or 'washed up' later.<br />This alone makes this book worth having in my library and it gave me a better understanding of the terrible losses suffered by these young men, some as young as eighteen, who volunteered to fly in Bomber Command and who came from all around the Commonwealth. It may not be the best book covering the subject but it's one of the few currently available and well worth the time to read.hed up' later.<br />This alone makes this book worth having in my library and it gave me a better understanding of the terrible losses suffered by these young men, some as young as eighteen, who volunteered to fly in Bomber Command and who came from all around the Commonwealth. It may not be the best book covering the subject but it's one of the few currently available and well worth the time to read.	2003-05-05
US	53066131	RDCYBFIF0GLTW	047142627X	753668001	First Light: The True Story of the Boy Who Became a Man in the War-Torn Skies above Britain	Books	5	32	35	N	N	An Excellent Book	`First Light' is one of those books that is destined to be remembered as a \\"classic\\" and rightly so. This is a wonderful book of a young man who joined the Royal Air Force before the start of World War Two and who later fought during the Battle of Britain and survived. Most of the book is taken up with his training as a pilot and the fighting during the Battle of Britain. However the book continues on to cover his role in Operation Pedestal and the fighting over Malta until his return to England as a tired and worn out pilot.<br />I truly enjoyed Geoffrey Wellum's story of his training and chuckled a good many times whilst reading about one thing or another. Mr Wellum has a wonderful way of telling a story and you can easily picture the details as you read his narrative. I found myself amazed as I read the book of how much this young man and his friends suffered in defending their country and their mates in the air.<br />This is an account that anyone who has an interest in WW2 aviation will be delighted in. It's well told, full of humor, sadness, and death defying flying and combat action. These men, as young as 18, flew one of the fastest and deadliest aircraft at the time and many didn't make it through the campaign or even their first mission. You read with sadness the loss of many good pilots and friends but still the men continue flying day after day facing terrible odds.<br />I really enjoyed the author's style of writing, he was witty, descriptive and came across with a sense of telling a story with understated facts. He downplayed his own role during the Battle of Britain and I was really hooked on the narrative as it moved along at a cracking pace. I found it hard to put the book down late at night, which brought forth a moan from my wife about turning the lamp off or else!<br />This is a great story and in finishing I would like to add the following comment from a great historian about this book: \\"A work of exceptional quality.....his prose has a passion and immediacy which make it compelling reading\\" - Max Hastings. He's not wrong either!and immediacy which make it compelling reading\\" - Max Hastings. He's not wrong either!	2003-04-02
US	53066131	R2DQ7B47V84WO2	0304359750	493573840	Passchendaele: The Sacrificial Ground	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Decent Account of the Fighting at Passchendaele	Nigel Steel and Peter Hart's third book covering the Great War deals with the Third Battle of Ypres, better known as Passchendaele. This book joins a long list of other titles covering this most horrendous battle of World War One. As in their previous books the authors utilize the accounts of many of the participants in this great struggle. From gunners and footsloggers to the men in the air trying to gain mastery of the airspace above the salient. Using first-hand accounts, interviews, letters and after action reports they put together a fairly comprehensive story of the fighting as experienced by British and Commonwealth soldiers. It must be said that there are very few similar accounts used in this book from the German side.<br />Overall they do reasonable well in presenting the story of the fighting in the Ypres salient from 1917-1918. However I feel that they may not have done as well as some previous books. At times I found that the narrative appeared to drag or lose its continuity. The authors have attempted to be very fair in their assessment of the British High Command and the involvement or lack of involvement of the politician's back home. The book does not appear to have an axe to grind in regards to any one person's culpability in regards to the tremendous casualties suffered for so little tangible gain. The authors simply present the facts and allow you, the reader, to determine who may be at fault for the loss of so many innocent lives.<br />I found that the authors offered a very good overview of the circumstances leading to this battle, the tactics used and the decisions of the Commanding Generals. Overall it's a very easy to read account of this battle and a good starting point for someone wishing to learn more about what the poor bloody `Tommy', `Aussie', `Kiwi' and `Canuck' suffered. I would also recommend for further reading Lyn MacDonald's `They Called it Passchendaele', Robin Prior and Trevor Wilson's `Passchendaele; The Untold Story', and books by Philip Warner, Winston Groom and Leon Wolff.<br />I would like to finish up with an account from the book where a young British soldier was about to go `over the top' during the offensive to take Pilckem Ridge on the 31st July 1917: \\"It was still dark but then suddenly it was illuminated by a line of bursting shells, but what was astonishing still was that we must all have been deafened by the noise. I looked at Herbert, I could see his lips move - I shouted but I couldn't hear myself at all. I wanted to tell him that we would keep together so I grabbed his hand and we went over together as we had gone to Sunday School - hand in hand.\\" - Private Alfred Warsop, 1st Battalion, Sherwood Foresters.ks by Philip Warner, Winston Groom and Leon Wolff.<br />I would like to finish up with an account from the book where a young British soldier was about to go `over the top' during the offensive to take Pilckem Ridge on the 31st July 1917: \\"It was still dark but then suddenly it was illuminated by a line of bursting shells, but what was astonishing still was that we must all have been deafened by the noise. I looked at Herbert, I could see his lips move - I shouted but I couldn't hear myself at all. I wanted to tell him that we would keep together so I grabbed his hand and we went over together as we had gone to Sunday School - hand in hand.\\" - Private Alfred Warsop, 1st Battalion, Sherwood Foresters.	2003-03-14
US	53066131	R3H3IZ6AWE6IOI	074322325X	572809024	The End of the Beginning: From the Siege of Malta to the Allied Victory at El Alamein	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Excellent Follow Up to 'Finest Hour'	Once again the talented combination of Tim Clayton and Phil Craig have produced a new and exciting account of a well know period of the Second World War. Their newest book, apparently the second in a trilogy designed to mark the 60th anniversaries of Britain's three most important moments during WW2, covers the year 1942, the turning point in the Allied camp.<br />Following on from their excellent book 'Finest Hour', we again meet up with some familiar faces from that story. Peter Vaux, now fighting with the famed Desert Rats, Edith Heap working with R.A.F. bomber crews in England and Ken Lee still flying fighters in the R.A.F. but now over the desert. The authors have used the same winning formula with their last book and we follow these people and their stories along with a few others through the events of 1942.<br />We experience the fighting in the desert against Rommel and his men. We read how the British tanks are out classed by the German panzers and how the R.A.F. try to protect the Allies and harry the advancing German and Italian units as they advance towards Alexandria. We read about the desperate battles on the sea and in the sky to get convoys into Malta. We hear the stories of the inhabitants of that bombed out Island, hanging on desperately against the might of the Luftwaffe and Regia Aeronautica during daily bombing missions and with the fear of invasion hanging over their heads.<br />The story takes us back to Europe and we learn of the fate of many of the R.A.F. bomber crews fighting their own lonely war over the dark skies of occupied Europe. We read about the terrible tragedy at Dieppe and the political infighting amongst the leaders of the allied nations. Most of the story has been told before, however there are some elements that most readers will find new and interesting. I was not aware of the American intelligence blunder that gave away many Allied secrets to the Germans nor was I aware of the true mastermind behind the defence at El Alamein.<br />These things and more are told here for the first time and we read the stories of those who experienced this frightening but also uplifting period with a mixture of awe and amazement. This is a good book and in just over 400 pages we get a good feel for what it was like for many participants to be involved in this most important period in British history. One story that I won't forget and found hard to believe was the account of a young Jewish woman that was deported to Auschwitz from Guernsey. You read this story and you ask yourself 'how could this happened?'<br />I am sure that most people who enjoy popular history will get a buzz out of this book. \\"This is not the end. It is not even the beginning of the end. But it is perhaps, the end of the beginning\\" - Winston Churchill, 10th November, 1942n. <br />These things and more are told here for the first time and we read the stories of those who experienced this frightening but also uplifting period with a mixture of awe and amazement. This is a good book and in just over 400 pages we get a good feel for what it was like for many participants to be involved in this most important period in British history. One story that I won't forget and found hard to believe was the account of a young Jewish woman that was deported to Auschwitz from Guernsey. You read this story and you ask yourself 'how could this happened?'<br />I am sure that most people who enjoy popular history will get a buzz out of this book. \\"This is not the end. It is not even the beginning of the end. But it is perhaps, the end of the beginning\\" - Winston Churchill, 10th November, 1942	2003-03-05
US	53066131	RBB0G2AWXBKBI	0275947262	727405630	Killing Ground on Okinawa: The Battle for Sugar Loaf Hill	Books	5	19	20	N	Y	Excellent Combat Narrative	James H. Hallas's book `Killing Ground on Okinawa' is one of those books that should be in any decent military history library. Having previously read his account of the fighting on Peleliu, `The Devil's Anvil' I couldn't wait to read this account of the battle for Sugar Loaf Hill. I am happy to say that I was not disappointed in this book.<br />The author allows the Marines who took part in the fighting tell the story and its incredible to read what these blokes went through for what looks like a very small piece of Pacific Island real estate. The accounts of the fighting men are detailed and to the point and you are forced to sit back and think of how these men endured this hell, it is almost beyond the comprehension of today's generation.<br />The narrative is full of details but the real guts of the book is the first-hand accounts by the men involved in the assaults against the well constructed Japanese defensive positions. Not only were the Japanese well dug in and protected but they used their firepower and weapons to great advantage. They wrought destruction upon the advancing marines. Men and machines were continually being knocked out with no gain being made against the determined Japanese defence.<br />Finally after a heroic night attack the marines secured a toehold on Sugar Loaf but then had to hold against Japanese counter attacks and massive counter fire from artillery, mortars, machine guns and snipers. The casualty list for the marine units were massively high causing some questioning of the strategy and tactics used by the Army High Command. In over seven days of fighting the 6th Marine Division suffered over 2,000 casualties fighting for this pimple of a hill which secured the Japanese Shuri Line.<br />The only fault that I could find with this book was the standard of the maps and photographs. I am sure that they could have been of a higher calibre. Overall this is a great story of combat, dedication, bravery and Espirt de Corp. I think it is one of the better combat accounts of the Pacific Theatre that I have read in some years and I am certain that anyone interested in the Pacific War would be fascinated by this account.e of the better combat accounts of the Pacific Theatre that I have read in some years and I am certain that anyone interested in the Pacific War would be fascinated by this account.	2003-02-15
US	53066131	R3OMRN2FXYJ23C	0306809834	259504350	Those Damned Rebels: The American Revolution As Seen Through British Eyes	Books	4	22	23	N	N	A Very Good Historical Account	`Those Damned Rebels' was originally published in 1972 in hardback and later re-released in paperback in 2000. I am glad that DaCapo Press decided to re-publish this title, as it's one of the better one-volume accounts of the American Revolution that I have read for some time. As the sub title indicates this book is mainly the war as seen though British eyes but after reading the book I think it's without any particular bias.<br />The author uses numerous first-hand accounts and reports from the participants to reconstruct the events as they appeared to the soldiers, sailors, commanders and politicians at that time. This is so well done that the narrative never bogs down or becomes boring. The story is told in such a fluid and informative manner that it literally sweeps you into the history of the monumental events of this period.<br />The author covers all the main highlights of this war, from Bunker Hill to the surrender at Yorktown but he also supplies information on many of the smaller battles and skirmishes throughout this war. Nor does the author exclude events in Britain and Europe and the ramifications of battles won and lost in America on those seats of power that were involved in this conflict from afar.<br />The story moves from the battlefields of America to the Kings Court and Parliament in England and into the Courts of France, Spain, Russia and Holland. The events are told in manner that gives the reader a feeling of \\"authentic immediacy of an eye witness\\".<br />In over 402 pages of narrative (hardback version) the story told gives the reader a full account on the birth of the United States of America. The only gripe I have with this book (the 1972 edition) was the standard of the maps. In this edition they were taken from original maps of the time which I suppose fits in with the author's intention but are pretty useless to the modern reader to track events.<br />Overall I found this to be an easy to read book and I am sure that most people who enjoy this period of history will have a great time reading this account.oy this period of history will have a great time reading this account.	2003-02-06
US	53066131	RFDYH818BK05C	0399122710	279067945	Miracle of November: Madrid's Epic Stand, 1936	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Great Storytelling of the Battle for Madrid in 1936	`Miracle of November' by Dan Kurzman is a graphic and compelling account of the stand of Madrid in 1936 during the Spanish Civil War (1936-39). This is the only book that I have read on this particular battle but I have no hesitation is saying that it is a great military account covering the Loyalists forces holding Madrid against repeated assaults by the rebel forces led by General Franco.<br />The book is very similar in format to Gordon Thomas and Max Morgan-Witts book `The Day Guernica Died' (another great book on the Spanish Civil War). In both books the authors let the participants tell the story through first-hand accounts. Dan Kurzman, author of `Left to Die' and many other great military books, tells the story of why and how the Civil War started and then covers the military campaign to seize Madrid with forces flown in from Spanish Morocco.<br />The story is well told and covers both sides of the conflict, the narrative is fast paced and you find it hard to put the book down. I really enjoyed this book and I found myself reading until late at night wondering what was going to happen to many of the participants knowing full well the final result for Spain. The book was first published in 1980 but I don't think that it has aged and I am not aware of any other book in English currently available on the market.<br />The author does not fail to tell the terrible story of murder and the retribution carried out by both sides during the fighting for Madrid. I was not aware of the full story in this regard nor of the numerous acts of bravery carried out by ordinary people helping to save their friends although they were on the `other side'. This is a great book of human courage and bravery against the odds and also of treachery and domination played by the world powers to their own benefit and Spain's detriment.	2003-02-02
US	53066131	R3V4GEGVFHNGBT	0807826731	231461531	Fredericksburg! Fredericksburg!	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Decent Overview of the Fredericksburg Campaign	I have been waiting for some time for a decent book to be published on the Civil War battle at Fredericksburg, now within a matter of months two very good accounts have appeared on the market. I must admit that it took me awhile to decide which book to purchase out of the two releases but in the end the weight of the reviews at Amazon guided me towards `Fredericksburg! Fredericksburg!' by George Rable. I am thankful for those reviewers who posted their opinions on this book at Amazon; it made my decision a little easier.<br />I quite enjoyed this account which as many of the previous reviewers have indicated is not just a campaign history of Fredericksburg but more of a micro social and military history of the men who fought this terrible battle. I found the details of the soldier's life very interesting and I enjoyed the author's description of the battle a great deal. It must be stated as it has in the reviews below, that the battle is not covered in great depth. However out of the 435 pages of narrative we get a full account of how this terrible battle affected not only the soldiers who fought it but also their political masters and the civilians at home.<br />The book offers more than just a military history of this battle; it provides the reader with a real insight into the life of a Civil War soldier. I was amazed with many of the first-hand accounts offered in the narrative and I really enjoyed reading about these men, both from the Federal and Confederate perspective. In the end I didn't notice that the actual account of the battle only took up a quarter of the book. The narrative is lively and full of interesting antidotes, both from soldiers and civilians alike.<br />A number of maps and black & white illustrations were provided and all were of a decent standard (a nice change!). For those who are interested the author has also provided an Order-of-Battle at the end of the book and over 130 pages of references and notes. Overall this is a very decent Civil War history and I think that most readers will enjoy this account of Fredericksburg.l War history and I think that most readers will enjoy this account of Fredericksburg.	2003-02-02
US	53066131	RT4FQDK4OP8K2	1931672024	676587456	Wilderness Empire: A Narrative (Winning of America Series)	Books	5	73	73	N	N	Sweeping Narrative of American History	Allan Eckert's story or \\"narrative account\\" as he calls it of the eighteenth century struggle between France and England along the current day border of the United States and Canada is hard to put down once started. The book covers the fighting between these two nations and their attempts to get the numerous Indian tribes in the region to ally themselves with one or the other European power, to the final detriment of the Indians.<br />I must admit that at first I was unsure if I would like this style of history but after reading the author's note I had a better understanding of what the author was attempting and how he used his sources to help produce the narrative. At one stage, early into the book, I did find the story bogged down but then the author's descriptive talent and the narrative pulled me back into the story and from that point on it fairly run away with me.<br />I found it hard to put the book down and I was really caught up in the characters, English, Colonial, French and Indian. This is a great and sweeping narrative of these hard and frightening times and the author does not paint a pretty picture when it comes to the manner of warfare practiced by the Indians and Europeans at that time and in that place.<br />I really enjoyed the story of William Johnson, a man previously unknown to me in American history. I also loved the account of the Marquis de Montcalm. In this alone I was happy to pay the price for this book. I really felt I had a much better understanding of this French soldier and his role in American Colonial history.<br />The author provides the reader with the true story of what happened at Fort William Henry and his accounts of the corruption of the French colonial system was an eye opener for me. I really enjoyed his descriptions of the people involved from both sides of the war and the accounts of the Indians and their practices, egged on by their European masters was at time quite horrific.<br />If you enjoyed the movie `Last of the Mohican's then I am sure you will love this epic book of the same period. In over 600 pages of engrossing and interesting narrative this book will take you back to those times and you can spend a few days lost in the history of the `Wilderness Empire'.Mohican's then I am sure you will love this epic book of the same period. In over 600 pages of engrossing and interesting narrative this book will take you back to those times and you can spend a few days lost in the history of the `Wilderness Empire'.	2002-12-31
US	53066131	R18MK7KFU0W9L7	0380776553	478587749	Blue on Blue: A History of Friendly Fire	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Decent Overview of the History of 'Friendly Fire'	British historian, Geoffrey Regan, offers an insightful account of what is know as `Friendly Fire' or `blue-on-blue engagements'. Basically, soldiers are killed and maimed by their own side. Regan attempts to trace the history of these incidents from the time of Alexander the Great to the Gulf War. He does so quite well and the reader comes away wondering how in the hell these things could happen.<br />Through the Ancient and Medieval period, through the Napoleonic and US Civil War to WW1 and WW2, Korea, Vietnam, Grenada, the Falklands, and the Gulf War. Some incidents I had heard of like the American bombing fiasco during Operation Cobra in 1944 but others I never knew had occurred. The author attempts to explain how and why these friendly fire incidents occurred and the affects of friendly fire on the soldiers. Most of the stories seem to involve the British Commonwealth forces and the Americans. Very little from the Japanese, Russian and German sides but then again maybe the sources were not available.<br />Overall this is a very interesting account of a little know military subject and maybe our Military Commanders and Politicians should read the book. Anyone interested in military history should read this book. And as Norman Schwarzkopf said \\"no fire is friendly\\".	2002-12-29
US	53066131	R29TIF3IQVY45G	0091882095	498898869	Forgotten Voices of the Great War: A New History of World War I in the Words of the Men and Women Who Were There	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A Great Read &amp; Excellent History	Max Arthur's new book covering the Great War is quite unique in that its content is nearly all first-hand accounts from people who experienced the horror of the Great War. The author has utilized a number of tape recorded interviews conducted by the Imperial War Museum in 1972. Many of the tapes from the Imperial War Museum Sound Archive had been forgotten and left unheard for years.<br />Now Max Arthur has put together many of these unheard voices from the Great War to produce this spellbinding and captivating book. I must admit that I was reluctant to buy this book as I was worried that a book full of short accounts would be too disjointed and really not detailed enough to satisfy my interest. I can honestly say that I truly enjoyed reading this book.<br />Each chapter of the book was a year of the Great War and was commenced by an introduction by the author offering a brief run down on the major events of that year. Then we heard from the men and women who participated in these events, from both sides of no-man's land. The author has concentrated mainly on the Western Front and Gallipoli and has tried to run the oral segments in chronological order.<br />I was really taken by these segments and I found it hard to stop reading. The accounts from these soldiers and civilians alike were at times humorous, strikingly direct, horrifying and on many occasions quite sad. I was really taken in by these accounts and I don't think that any World War One library would be complete without this title sitting on the shelf. I can honestly say that I learnt quite a few things from this book and I would place it along side such works offered by Lyn MacDonald. Well done to the author and the Imperial War Museum for allowing these veterans, many now long dead, the last word on their experiences in the Great War. This is a great book, you won't be disappointed.	2002-12-23
US	53066131	R1R1LS7O580UHJ	0670030406	595178284	The Battle of Alamein: Turning Point, World War II	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Excellent Military History	John Bierman and Colin Smith's joint venture, 'Alamein: War Without Hate' follows hot on the heels of a number of other very good titles covering the Battle of El Alamein (Stephen Bungay's 'Alamein' and Clayton & Craig's 'End of the Beginning' to name just two). This title covers the history behind the desert campaign, the lead up to famous confrontation at Alamein and the results of that pivotal battle (at least in the eyes of the British Commonwealth).<br />In just over 400 pages of tense and illuminating narrative we learn more than just the 'what, why & how' of the battle. As readers we get the chance to have a glimpse into the lives of the soldiers who fought in this campaign. We read about soldiers from all parts of the Commonwealth and their German and Italian enemies and we get an idea why this campaign was known as the \\"war without hate\\".<br />The story was presented in a lively and interesting manner and although I have read quite a few books on this battle the story was fresh and retained my interest throughout. I found that at times the authors presented accounts with humor and sometimes a little sarcasm but at all times with fairness to soldiers on both sides of 'no-mans land'. There may not be much that is new here but this book does offer a refreshing and easy to read account of one of World War Two's more famous battles.<br />I also found that at times whilst reading this book I really got caught up in the lives of some of the participants and I was sadden by many of the outcomes. This is the story about the ordinary infantrymen, tankie, gunner, pilot, sailor and civilian, on both sides of the conflict. I really enjoyed the stories from these men and women and it was pleasing to see that the poor old Italian soldier get a fair place in this account. The author's style of writing was captivating and drew me into the narrative with ease, and I enjoyed many of the little snippets of information they provided on a range of subjects and characters.<br />Below is a section taken from the final chapter of the book 'Requiem':<br />\\"Two Englishwomen, sisters well into their sixties, are making a belated pilgrimage to the grave of their father, Lieutenant-Colonel John Evatt, officer commanding the 21st Anti-tank Regiment, Royal Artillery, a professional soldier who was killed on the fourth day of the battle. His daughters, Judith and Jancis, were four and six years old respectively at the time; a third daughter, fleetingly conceived during Colonel Evatt's embarkation leave, was yet unborn.<br />The Colonel's widow never remarried. The daughter she was carrying when her husband was killed died earlier this year of cancer. At their father's grave, the surviving sisters use a borrowed hotel spoon to dig an inch of two down into the loose sand. Then, into a shallow depression beneath the headstone they tip the contents of a small casket they have brought from England - the mingled ashes of their mother and their sister. These they cover over, to blend in with the desert soil that covers their father. No tears; the daughter of the bygone Empire do not weep.\\"<br />This is a good story, well presented and well written. I am sure that many readers who enjoy WWII history will enjoy this book immensely.elow is a section taken from the final chapter of the book 'Requiem':<br />\\"Two Englishwomen, sisters well into their sixties, are making a belated pilgrimage to the grave of their father, Lieutenant-Colonel John Evatt, officer commanding the 21st Anti-tank Regiment, Royal Artillery, a professional soldier who was killed on the fourth day of the battle. His daughters, Judith and Jancis, were four and six years old respectively at the time; a third daughter, fleetingly conceived during Colonel Evatt's embarkation leave, was yet unborn.<br />The Colonel's widow never remarried. The daughter she was carrying when her husband was killed died earlier this year of cancer. At their father's grave, the surviving sisters use a borrowed hotel spoon to dig an inch of two down into the loose sand. Then, into a shallow depression beneath the headstone they tip the contents of a small casket they have brought from England - the mingled ashes of their mother and their sister. These they cover over, to blend in with the desert soil that covers their father. No tears; the daughter of the bygone Empire do not weep.\\" <br />This is a good story, well presented and well written. I am sure that many readers who enjoy WWII history will enjoy this book immensely.	2002-12-06
US	53066131	R3AMUFMCQC0ZC2	0850528011	33947192	Life of Sir John Moore: Not a Drum Was Heard	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Interesting Biography of a Military Leader	This new title by Roger Day, `The Life of Sir John Moore' provides the reader with an interesting view of a man who the author categorizes as \\"the classic tragic British hero\\". This is the first biography I have read of Sir John Moore although I have come across him in many previous books. The author's view of Sir John Moore differs from many other accounts, the most recent being in `The Peninsular War' by Charles Esdaile.<br />Regardless of these differences I found that the author's biography of Sir John Moore was well presented and a delight to read. His campaigns were covered in enough detail to allow the reader to form an opinion on the man and his achievements. The narrative runs to only 220 pages so it could not be considered an exhaustive study but more of a general overview of the man and his times. According to the publishers much of the primary research material has previously not been utilized.<br />Upon finishing the book I felt that Sir John Moore was a brave man who actually felt some responsibility towards his troops welfare and did all in his power as a leader to ensure that they were well looked after and used in an intelligent manner. At times it appeared that these concerns and his forward thinking, taking in the `bigger picture', did not sit well with both his superiors and politicians in London nor with some of his subordinates.<br />Once again I was amazed and disgusted to read of the political backstabbing and cover-ups conducted by some of the politicians at the time. This appears to be a constant thread throughout history, the soldiers doing the dirty work while the politicians find some way of appearing to be squeaky clean when things go wrong. Overall this is an enjoyable book and should find acceptance with those who have read little on the subject, a good primer for further reading.	2002-12-03
US	53066131	RJHPOVPLVOPUG	1899163603	315977719	Larrey: Surgeon General To Napoleon's Imperial Guard	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Interesting Story of an Amazing Man	Robert Richardson's book, `Larrey' tells the story of Dominique Jean Larrey, Surgeon-in-Chief to Napoleon's Imperial Guard. The book was first published in 1974 and the current edition was released in 2000. It could not be considered an in-depth or detail biography but in 240 pages the author manages to captivate the reader with amazing accounts of this most interesting man, from Napoleon's campaigns in Egypt to Waterloo.<br />Larrey was credited with designing a `flying' ambulance which allowed the French Army to recover its wounded on the field and to administer first aid at the front if required. He also devised a practical and life saving system to evacuate casualties from the field of battle to a base hospital. Larrey himself conducted many amputations and other medical procedures whilst under fire.<br />\\"Who is that bold fellow?\\" asked the Duke of Wellington.<br />\\"It's Larrey\\", someone answered.<br />\\"Tell them not to fire in that direction; at least let us give the brave man time to gather up the wounded.\\" And so saying he doffed his hat.<br />\\"Who are you saluting?\\" enquired the Duke of Cambridge.<br />\\"I salute the courage and devotion of an age that is no longer ours\\", said Wellington, pointing at Larrey with his sword.<br />Larrey was a man who cared for the sick and wounded soldiers of any nation regardless of rank or position. This at times placed him in conflict with the hierarchy of the French administration. He established new procedures and methods of training which were adopted not only by the French but also by many of the nations the French Army fought against.<br />The book is well written and the narrative moves seamlessly through military campaigns to home life and back to life with the Guard. The accounts of the military campaigns are well told even if brief, the main focus of the book is of course Dominique Larrey. There are a number of line drawings and illustrations throughout the book as well as a few maps to help orientate the reader.<br />The author shows Larrey warts and all but you still come away with a firm admiration for the man \\"whose skilled scalpel served his Emperor better than any sword.\\" I enjoyed this book and it offered something new in the field of Napoleonic studies. I am sure that anyone who enjoys this period of history will be delighted in this book.author shows Larrey warts and all but you still come away with a firm admiration for the man \\"whose skilled scalpel served his Emperor better than any sword.\\" I enjoyed this book and it offered something new in the field of Napoleonic studies. I am sure that anyone who enjoys this period of history will be delighted in this book.	2002-12-03
US	53066131	R3QKCCAYBVY29F	0304359602	432216045	Rorke's Drift	Books	4	22	22	N	N	Interesting Account	Adrian Greaves new account of the legendary battle at Rorke's Drift between a few thousand brave Zulu warriors and a small force of equally brave British soldiers is bound to be the definitive book on the subject for some time to come. Over 450 pages in length with a number of black and white photographs and 10 maps the author presents the full picture of this epic stand and places it in the context of the British campaign into Zulu Land.<br />The book is set in two parts, the first half (202 pages) offers the reader a narrative of the events leading up to the British invasion, the battle at Isandlwana, the final battle at Rorke's Drift, and then the events leading to the end of the campaign. The second half of the book (over 240 pages) is taken up with numerous chapters and appendices dealing with a host of material in relation to the people involved and the battle itself.<br />Subjects covered include the medical treatment of the wounded, personalities involved, an examination of the Roll of Rorke's Drift, medal citations, history of the 24th Regiment, archaeological investigations at the battlefield, and a visitor's guide to Rorke's Drift. Seven appendices that provide a host of other information follow these chapters. This part of the book is a researchers gold mine and offers the amateur historian a wealth of information on the battle.<br />Overall it's a very interesting book to read and very well presented. The narrative was easy to follow and I enjoyed the accounts of the fighting at Isandlwana and Rorke's Drift. However, although I was amazed at the amount of information offered and I appreciate the research that has gone into this book, I wanted more of the narrative to be concentrated on the actual battle at Rorke's Drift. In all only about 30 pages is dedicated to the actual fighting at Rorke's Rift with another 30 pages covering the aftermath of the battle.<br />I am sure much more could have been written about the fighting at Rorke's Drift but what was offered was still quite good and I was fascinated by the information supplied on some of the main characters involved at Rorke's Drift. I am pretty sure that most people who loved the movie `Zulu' or who have a passion for this period of history will enjoy this book as much as I did. I intend to watch the video again soon just to compare the book to the movie. Well done to the author, maybe he could write a similar account on the Battle of Isandlwana?s offered was still quite good and I was fascinated by the information supplied on some of the main characters involved at Rorke's Drift. I am pretty sure that most people who loved the movie `Zulu' or who have a passion for this period of history will enjoy this book as much as I did. I intend to watch the video again soon just to compare the book to the movie. Well done to the author, maybe he could write a similar account on the Battle of Isandlwana?	2002-10-24
US	53066131	R3T9CINVH1T9QM	0971553300	26716607	Gunther Rall: A Memoir, Luftwaffe Ace & NATO General	Books	3	19	20	N	N	Decent Account but not Definitive	This new `authorised' biography of Gunther Rall, the Luftwaffe's third highest scoring ace of WW2, offers the reader an interesting insight into the man who piloted a Bf 109 against Germany's enemies on the Eastern and Western Fronts of the Second World War.<br />The book provides the reader with details about Rall's wartime activities, the end of the war, his civilian life and his role in the re-emergence of a German Air Force during the Cold War.  For those who may not be aware of Gunther Rall's tally of victories during the Second World War he amassed a total of 275 `kills', mostly on the Eastern Front.<br />I was immediately attracted to this book for two reasons, the eye catching cover and because it's the only biography that I am aware of covering this extraordinary ace. I have read a few accounts of German aces and Rall is mentioned in most but nothing in great detail.<br />I must admit that I was slightly disappointed in this book, I was hoping for much more in relation to Rall's aerial fighting over the Russian steppes. This book didn't offer much in-depth detail about his fighter combat against Russian aircraft or his role in the defence of the Reich in 1944-45.<br />The author does provide some insightful information about Rall the man, the pilot and the leader, although somewhat general in nature, with numerous first-hand accounts thrown in. The book is still quite interesting to read and held my attention throughout, especially the period of Rall learning to fly the F-104 during the Cold War.<br />I found that the narrative was sometimes a bit disjointed along with what appeared to be a few chronological errors. However the overall affect was an enjoyable read about a most courageous and decent pilot offering `the other side' of the story from his perspective. I enjoyed reading about Rall's encounters with Allied aces after the war and the stories they swapped around a dinner table.<br />In the end I would have liked more aerial combat detail, a bit more nitty-gritty about how he chalked up so many kills, and more stories about his experiences fighting on the Eastern Front. One good point is that the book does provide numerous black and white photographs from Rall's wartime years and onwards.<br />In spite of my criticisms I am still pleased that I purchased the book and had the chance to `meet' this most fascinating man. However, I think that the definitive `combat' account of Gunther Rall and his experiences flying and fighting with the Luftwaffe is yet to come.re nitty-gritty about how he chalked up so many kills, and more stories about his experiences fighting on the Eastern Front. One good point is that the book does provide numerous black and white photographs from Rall's wartime years and onwards. <br />In spite of my criticisms I am still pleased that I purchased the book and had the chance to `meet' this most fascinating man. However, I think that the definitive `combat' account of Gunther Rall and his experiences flying and fighting with the Luftwaffe is yet to come.	2002-08-06
US	53066131	R12CM7OV6MM7C8	0275972046	782187207	Isonzo: The Forgotten Sacrifice of the Great War	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Excellent WW1 Account	John R. Schindler's outstanding book on the numerous battles fought along the Isonzo River during the Great War is one of the best military history accounts I have read for some time.  The Isonzo River ran between the then warring nations of Italy and Austria (Habsburg Empire) and saw some of the bloodiest fighting of World War One. According to the author over 1.75 million men became casualties during the numerous offensives fought along this river and upper valley and should be placed along such names as Verdun, the Somme, and Passchendaele.<br />After reading his book I fully agree with the author in this regard. Before reading this book I had never really appreciated this campaign in the context of the Great War. I knew of the role of the young German officer, Erwin Rommel, and the Battle of Caporetto. Before now I had never read of the outstanding valour shown by the Italian and Austrian-Hungarian soldiers who fought for four grueling years along this forgotten front line.<br />I was not aware that Benito Mussolini had fought as an Italian Alpini soldier along this front and that he was a dedicated and brave soldier. I learnt from reading this book that the many ethnic nationals that made up the old Habsburg Empire fought bravely and without compliant for their Emperor regardless of what was happening to the old Empire back home.<br />The descriptions of the fighting were excellent and the details of the many campaigns and offensives never once got boring. The story was well told and the accounts of the many soldiers and officers involved were well told and insightful. This is an excellent historical account and rightly sub-titled as \\"The Forgotten Sacrifice of the Great War\\". The narrative was compelling throughout and I found it hard to put the book away late at night. In just under 350 pages of text we get a fascinating and before now untold account of a terrible conflict.<br />The author offers a highly interesting chapter on the ramifications of this WW1 campaign on the region after the end of the Great War. He also provides a chapter outlining the battlefield as it is today. There are a number of black and white photographs of the area and numerous maps (which could have been better but were sufficient). I cannot recommend this book highly enough for any World War One reader. Although the price tag may put off some buyers, it actually took me a few months to make the decision to buy this book, it is well worth the expenditure.campaign on the region after the end of the Great War. He also provides a chapter outlining the battlefield as it is today. There are a number of black and white photographs of the area and numerous maps (which could have been better but were sufficient). I cannot recommend this book highly enough for any World War One reader. Although the price tag may put off some buyers, it actually took me a few months to make the decision to buy this book, it is well worth the expenditure.	2002-07-30
US	53066131	R2NUQRDROHV8FY	0871138425	77869369	A Storm in Flanders: The Ypres Salient, 1914-1918: Tragedy and Triumph on the Western Front	Books	4	47	49	N	N	Solid Introduction to the Fighting around Ypres during WW1	Winston Groom's latest historical work 'A Storm in Flanders', offers the reader an interesting and satisfying overview of the fighting around the Ypres Salient between 1914 and 1918. The book is 276 pages in length of which over 260 is text. This account cannot be considered comprehensive in its study of the Ypres Salient in the Great War, for that you will need to look elsewhere. However what Mr Groom does offer is a compelling look at the numerous battles fought around the Ypres Salient, including one of the most dreadful battles of World War One, Passchendaele, the Third Battle of Ypres.<br />The author has attempted to give you, the reader, an insight into the lives of the soldier huddled in his wet trench under constant artillery fire, where thousands of soldiers lost their lives in daily 'wastage', even during quiet periods. The story is told mainly from the British point of view, with numerous first-hand accounts offered throughout the book. The narrative is fast paced and you never get tired or bored with the story. I have read many books on the Great War and I never cease to wonder why these brave men endured what they did and for so long.<br />The author provides the reader with details about the introduction of new weapons of destruction unleashed for the first time during the Great War. Stories of how poisons gas was utilized by the Germans and then the Allies, followed by accounts of the victims and witnesses to the effects of gas are truly horrendous. Then follows the introduction of massive underground mines and the flame-thrower to combat the trench systems and machine gun posts of the enemy. The author doesn't spare you the details of what happened to men during the fighting in the trenches and the terrible affects of an artillery bombardment or a underground mine exploding under a trench packed with soldiers.<br />The beauty of this book is that it really gives you an idea what these poor men, from both sides of the conflict, had to live through. The oft told story about Lieutenant General Kiggell viewing the battlefield after Passchendaele fell, breaking down into tears, crying out \\"Good God, did we really send men to fight in that.\\" still saddens me, regardless of how many times I read it.<br />If nothing else this, book will offer the first time reader of the fighting around Ypres a good understanding of the terrible battles fought there and will entice many to follow up with further reading. As such I can recommend many good titles to follow through on with for those who may be interested:<br />'In Flanders Fields' by Leon Wolff<br />'They Called it Passchendaele' by Lyn MacDonald<br />'Passchendaele: The Untold Story' by Robin Prior & Trevor Wilson<br />'Passchendaele: the Sacrificial Ground' by Nigel Steel & Peter Hart<br />'Passchendaele: The Story Behind the Tragic Victory of 1917' by Philip Warner<br />Of these Lyn MacDonald's account is one of the more interesting in that she utilises many accounts of the soldiers who fought during that terrible battle. Robin Prior and Trevor Wilson's account also offers much new information and has received much acclaim of late.<br />Any person who reads this book will not fail to come away impressed with the stolid courage of the officers and men involved in this terrible carnage and if that's the least this book does then that is more than enough as far as I am concerned.The oft told story about Lieutenant General Kiggell viewing the battlefield after Passchendaele fell, breaking down into tears, crying out \\"Good God, did we really send men to fight in that.\\" still saddens me, regardless of how many times I read it. <br />If nothing else this, book will offer the first time reader of the fighting around Ypres a good understanding of the terrible battles fought there and will entice many to follow up with further reading. As such I can recommend many good titles to follow through on with for those who may be interested:<br />'In Flanders Fields' by Leon Wolff<BR>'They Called it Passchendaele' by Lyn MacDonald<BR>'Passchendaele: The Untold Story' by Robin Prior & Trevor Wilson<BR>'Passchendaele: the Sacrificial Ground' by Nigel Steel & Peter Hart<BR>'Passchendaele: The Story Behind the Tragic Victory of 1917' by Philip Warner<br />Of these Lyn MacDonald's account is one of the more interesting in that she utilises many accounts of the soldiers who fought during that terrible battle. Robin Prior and Trevor Wilson's account also offers much new information and has received much acclaim of late.<br />Any person who reads this book will not fail to come away impressed with the stolid courage of the officers and men involved in this terrible carnage and if that's the least this book does then that is more than enough as far as I am concerned.	2002-07-21
US	53066131	R2VOCJRSJSDQF	0802713750	908464747	Lusitania: An Epic Tragedy	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Compelling Reading	Diana Preston's new book covering the events leading to the sinking of the Lusitania is sure to become one of the classic accounts on the subject. From a land-lubber's point of view I found the story well researched and very well presented. I enjoyed the background information on the ship and people involved, the build up to the final voyage, the accounts of the sinking and the world-wide ramifications of the German submarine attack. I found that the authors use of first-hand accounts were well placed and really conveyed the horror of the sinking as experienced by the survivors.<br />The story isn't a pleasant one and it makes you wonder how can some people act in the way they did and then you think to yourself, how would I act in the same circumstances? I found this book as enjoyable and as interesting to read as `The Sea Shall Embrace Them: The Tragic Story of the Steamship Arctic' by David Shaw. Both books provide the reader with a narrative that draws you into story, into the lives of the people facing uncertain fate and you feel so relieved that you are safe at home in a warm bed reading a good book.<br />I think that Preston has done a very decent job in bringing the people involved to life in her story of the events surrounding Lusitania's last voyage. In over 500 pages she tells the tale of this great and beautiful ship, its crew and passengers and its sinking at the hands of U-20. I found that her treatment of the German U-boat commander very fair and I was surprised at some of the information provided about the actual sinking and events following during the Inquest and other official investigations.<br />Overall this is a compelling and fact filled book, which holds your attention throughout. I am sure that this story should please most people interested in maritime history or in the R.M.S Lusitania.	2002-07-12
US	53066131	R2UUPCHJ05KRIJ	0465057918	276025833	The Tsar's Last Armada	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Interesting Account &amp; Worth the Read	Constantine Pleshakov's new book `The Tsar's Last Armada: The Epic Voyage to the Battle of Tsushima' is a compelling account of the voyage undertaken by a Russian Fleet half way around the world which ended in its total annihilation at the hands of the Japanese during the Battle of Tsushima. The book concentrates more on the actual events leading up to the decision to send the Russian fleet on this journey, the voyage itself and the personalities involved. Some previous reviews have made mention of the lack of detail on the actual battle itself, however the book's titles gives you a fair idea of the content and I think it was a story told well, full of interest and drama.<br />In the introduction the author makes it very clear that the story is told from a Western viewpoint:<br />\\"The Russian and British archives that I have used allow one to tell the story of Tsushima with some hope of being objective and complete, yet, I know that my research is deficient. I do not read Japanese, and without Japanese archival evidence it is not possible to write anything truly comprehensive about the war. So this is the story of Tsushima told from a Western perspective, as it was seen through Russian, British, French, and German eyes - nothing more, but also, hopefully, nothing less.\\"<br />Overall I found the story interesting and although I too would have liked more on the Battle of Tsushima there was enough to complete the story. The book has filled me with an urge to learn more of this decisive engagement and I will look around for another book to complete my education. The narrative was well presented and held my interest throughout the journey. Towards the end of the book I felt quite sorry for Vice-Admiral Rozhestvensky who appeared to have done the best he could under most trying circumstances.<br />This is decent account and I think accomplishes what the author set out to do, to tell the story \\"of the Russian squadron's long, difficult journey and fast, horrible defeat.\\" One compliant that could be leveled at the author would be the standard of the maps provided. I am sure anyone who enjoys stories of mans determination and perseverance against adversity will enjoy this book. However you will need to look further for a more comprehensive account of the Battle of Tsushima.e compliant that could be leveled at the author would be the standard of the maps provided. I am sure anyone who enjoys stories of mans determination and perseverance against adversity will enjoy this book. However you will need to look further for a more comprehensive account of the Battle of Tsushima.	2002-07-12
US	53066131	RVRS6IFAM1HLI	006018891X	709991744	The Man Who Broke Napoleon's Codes	Books	4	25	25	N	N	Interesting Account of a Little Known Subject	Mark Urban has added another great book to the many titles competing to be placed in a Napoleonic library. This book, `The Man Who Broken Napoleon's Codes' covers a little known and written of subject, the story of George Scovell. This man had as much to do with the British victories in Spain as did Wellington although you would not know it if you read any previous accounts of the Peninsular War.<br />George Scovell helped break the French Imperial codes and provided much useful intelligence to Wellington in his campaigns against the French armies. But since Scovell was of low birth he struggled for advancement. He showed his bravery on a number of battlefields but was almost always forgotten when it came to promotion, being passed over by younger men of more distinguished birth.<br />I must admit that I was a bit dubious when I started reading this book as I usually find accounts on code breaking and intelligence quite dull and boring however this book reads like a novel. Full of information with a narrative that races along, it was a great story and full of action. The book covers all the major campaigns and battles in the Peninsular and was a joy to read. I have no hesitation in recommending this book to anyone who loves reading about the Napoleonic period.	2002-05-19
US	53066131	R1H7JUEUOW5M34	0929521080	219856193	Top Secret Bird: The Luftwaffe's Me-163 Comet	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Interesting Account	`Top Secret Bird' by Wolfgang Spate is an interesting first-hand account of the Luftwaffe's program to build the Me-163 `Komet'. This aircraft was one of the early jet fighters designed by the Germans to help turn back the Allied control of the air over Occupied Europe and Germany towards the end of WW2.<br />The author was an Army Reconnaissance pilot, chiefly employed in the Polish and French campaigns. Thereafter, he served as a fighter pilot, operating mainly in the East. In 1942, he became Head of `Erprobungs-Kommando 16', tasked with the development of the Me 163 Rocket Fighter. Returning to operations as a Wing Commander in 1944, he continued flying until the end of the war, by which time he had been promoted Major. He was credited with ninety-nine aerial victories and was awarded the Knight's Cross.<br />This book goes into great detail about how the Germans designed, constructed, tested and mass-produced this most revolutionary aircraft. The book has numerous black and white photographs throughout which offers great detail in regards to the Komet. The majority of the book covers the frustrating efforts to get the Komet tested and massed produce whilst Germany was slowly losing the war.<br />Overall it's a great story of brave pilots testing a revolutionary type of aircraft sometimes with quite horrific results. The book is more directed to this aspect of aviation history than about fighter combat but its still a gripping read. The narrative pulls you along, weaving in and out of Nazi politics, the air war, flight-testing and the sometimes-terrible results. This is a great story, well told and should hold the interest of anyone interested in aviation history.	2002-05-19
US	53066131	RMHJMPEVYE12X	0743222172	78011641	The Sea Shall Embrace Them: The Tragic Story of the Steamship Arctic	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Gripping but Sad Account of Maritime Disaster	This new book by David Shaw tells the story of the tragic sinking of the United States Steamship `Arctic' in 1854. The `Arctic' was one of the new generation of ocean travelling boats offering the paying public comfort and speed whilst crossing the Atlantic. Involved in a race against the liners of the British owned and operated Cunard Company the `Arctic' was set to break all records, travelling full steam ahead regardless of weather or any other considerations.<br />Sadly on September 27, 1854, the `Arctic' collided with a new ironclad vessel, the `Vesta', off the coast of Newfoundland and then within a short period of time plunged to the bottom of the sea, sparing only 87 of her 408 passengers. The book tells the sad story of this collision, the sinking and the terrible actions of the crew and some of the passengers trying to survive in the cold sea of the Grand Banks. This incident was a foretaste of the epic `Titanic' sinking which was to occur some fifty years later.<br />The author also tells the story of the competition between the British Cunard Company and the United States Collins Company in the race to provide the best and fastest service in crossing the Atlantic, which led to this terrible tragedy. The account of the boat sinking as the crew fails in their duty and desert, leaving just a few duty bound men, including the Captain with his sickly 11-year-old son is quite harrowing. In the end most of the crew escape with the few lifeboats available, leaving behind the stricken passengers, which resulted in the death of every woman and child aboard.<br />This is great, and at the same time, very sad story and although quite short, only 220 pages of narrative, it is well told and gripping throughout. The author utilises numerous first hand accounts to convey the feelings at the time and also provides a number of black and white photographs. Overall this was a very satisfying book and I am sure anyone who enjoys reading about maritime history will be quite taken with this story.taken with this story.	2002-05-18
US	53066131	R2HPQAQVV7BBN9	0471095702	284522647	Caesar's Legion: The Epic Saga of Julius Caesar's Elite Tenth Legion and the Armies of Rome	Books	4	39	44	N	N	Interesting Account of Roman Legions	Firstly I must make an admission that I am no expert on this area of history. However I do appreciate a good historical account and that is what you will find with Dando-Collins book on the Roman 10th Legion. I have always enjoyed history books covering this period of time and I was prompted to buy this book after reading Major Clunn's excellent book `In Quest of the Lost Legions', which I would highly recommend to anyone interested in Roman history.<br /><br />In Stephen Dando-Collins book `Caesar's Legion' the reader is offered a rarely seen look at the battles and campaigns of Rome's Legions during the time of Julius Caesar. The centerpiece of the book is the 10th Legion, raised by Julius Caesar and used by him throughout as his elite shock-troops. Not only does the book provide you with an interesting and detailed insight into the 10th Legion but also the author provides you with a detailed narrative of the battles and campaigns fought by Roman Legions throughout the known world.<br /><br />We read about the officers and men of the 10th Legion including its recruitment, training, makeup and organization along with detailed descriptions of their fighting. The book details all the known campaigns and battles, from the English Isles, Gaul and Italy to the Middle East. The story covers the campaigns against rebelling tribesman in Gaul and Germany to the many set piece battles against other Roman Legions during the Civil War. The narrative continues with the life of the 10th Legion after the death of its founder, Julius Caesar. We follow the Legionaries to the Jewish fortress of Masada and read about the campaign against the Jewish Zealots with its grim ending.<br /><br />The book is easy to read with a smooth and descriptive narrative. The story is well researched and has a number of maps to assist the reader in following the campaigns of the 10th Legion. No illustrations are provided which is a slight disappointment but more than made up for with the rich narrative. This is a great story and I am sure that anyone who enjoys good historical accounts with love this story of \\"Caesar's Legion\\".and I am sure that anyone who enjoys good historical accounts with love this story of \\"Caesar's Legion\\".	2002-05-12
US	53066131	R8TFZR4DU92A1	0609607669	232930099	Batavia's Graveyard: The True Story of the Mad Heretic Who Led History's Bloodiest Mutiny	Books	4	22	22	N	N	Great but Gruesome Story	\\"Batavia's Graveyard\\" what a name for a book! I could not resist picking this book up as soon as I saw it and I am so happy that I did. It was one of the best historical tales I have read for some time. Being an Australian I knew something of the Batavia but not the full story. In fact I had examined in detail the re-constructed Batavia at the Maritime Museum in Sydney. I walked through the ship, checking out every nook and cranny on the upper and lower decks. However that was way before I read this book. I never knew of the murder and mayhem that took place off the Western Australian coastline.<br />This book not only gives you the full story of the voyage of the Batavia, its shipwreck, the fate of the survivors and the subsequent fate of the mutineers under Jeronimus Cornelisz. It also offers the reader a complete and compelling picture into the background to this disaster and at the same time it offers interesting stories on all the participants. By the time I was half way through the book I was furious that the mutineers had carried out their terrible deeds. The book had me caught up in the story so much it was like reading about a current disaster in the newspaper. I wanted Cornelisz and his followers to suffer untold pain and misery for their acts.<br />The story is well told and gripping and the author has done his research well. The author supplies the reader with numerous tidbits of information regarding this period and this never detracts from the story but adds to it. It would have been nice to have some photographs of the Islands concerned to help paint the picture of desolation and even some photos of the recently re-constructed Batavia. Regardless of these very minor criticisms this book is a great historical story and I am sure that anyone who enjoys a good history will love this book.	2002-05-08
US	53066131	R24P00EH8EKILV	0304352829	283681449	Cochrane: Britannia's Sea Wolf	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Excellent swashbuckling Story	This book was first published in 1978 but has now been re-released to the benefit of all who enjoy a fast-paced historical account. After reading this book I am amazed that it has taken nearly twenty years to be re-released. What a great story Mr. Thomas tells of Thomas, Lord Cochrane, later the 10th Earl of Dundonald. From his birth through to his death covering all his exploits in numerous sea battles and actions, so many in fact that you find it hard to believe that he survived.<br />The book covers Cochrane's battles during the Napoleonic Wars during which, on many occasions, he sent his ship in action against overwhelming odds. It was during this period that he was recognized, as one of Britain's most daring and successful captains. It was also during this period that he made many enemies, although he pressed hard in every action and took many risks, he always considered the well being of the men under his command. This later led to his single-handed campaign against corruption in the Admiralty.<br />Following the end of the Napoleonic Wars in 1815 Cochrane commenced an extraordinary career as a mercenary admiral. He subsequently commanded the navies of Chile and Brazil and launched campaigns against their protagonists, Spain and Portugal. After finishing his 'little wars' in South America he took command of elements of the Greek navy in their war against the Turks. In all these campaigns Cochrane again showed that he was one of the best naval commanders of his time.<br />The narrative flowed along smoothly and although I have no great knowledge of maritime history I had no problems in following this story. In over 350 pages of text along with a number of black & white plates and a few maps Mr. Thomas tells a wonderful and exciting story. This is the type of book, which I am sure any person who has a love for history or who enjoys the novels of C. S. Forester and Patrick O'Brien will just love. A must for any serious student of naval tactics or Napoleonic warfare.rfare.	2002-03-21
US	53066131	R3OV5IDVOLZN7N	1893554244	392253978	The Eleven Days of Christmas: America's Last Vietnam Battle	Books	5	33	34	N	N	Excellent Story	Marshall L. Michel's new book covering America's last great air battle in Vietnam, `The 11 Days of Christmas' is an excellent and gripping book telling the story of `Linebacker II'.  I started reading this book on a Saturday and finished it by Sunday, the next day. The narrative was spellbinding; I was glued to the book and found it hard to put down.<br />The author offers a nice mix of in-depth research intermixed with first hand accounts of those involved, at every level and on both sides. This is a great book, easy to read and hard not to enjoy. I have read only a few books on the air war in Vietnam, `The Ravens' by Christopher Robbins, `The Rescue of BAT-21' by Darrel Whitcomb and `One Day in a Long War by Jeffrey Ethell and Alfred Price'. However I still have no hesitation in recommending this book to any one who enjoys a well-written historical account of air warfare.<br />The author takes the reader through the background and events leading to the decision to carry out America's Linebacker II campaign. Covering points both from the political and military aspects of this campaign he shows the faults uncovered during the bombing campaign both with SAC and their political masters. It is surprising to read of the inadequacies uncovered and the stupidity behind some decisions.<br />By the time you get to the end of the book you come away with nothing but praise for the air crews involved in this battle regardless if you agree with the strategy of this bombing campaign or not. Further, the author offers you a rare insight into the North Vietnamese crews defending Hanoi and Haiphong during the bombing.<br />Not only does Michel offer you an excellent historical account of this campaign but you really get drawn into the story as you follow the crews of the B-52's as they make their way to their targets during the dark nights of December 1972. This is a great book that offers excellent story telling backed by in-depth research and numerous first-hand accounts from the participants of the campaign. Well done to the author.the participants of the campaign. Well done to the author.	2002-02-20
US	53066131	R10P3GIIYSXWTV	0754110680	749365415	In quest of the lost legions	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Excellent Story Telling	\\"In Quest Of The Lost Legions: The Varusschlacht\\" by Major Tony Clunn is one of those rare gems of a book. You don't realise just how good it is until you start. I purchased this book based on the reviews at Amazon.com in the United States and the United Kingdom. After I received my copy I had a quick flick through it and decided that I would read it at a later date. Over the last few months I picked up the book a few times, flicked through and decided `next time'. I am so disappointed in myself for not reading this book as soon as I received it in the mail.<br />This is a great story, packed full of interesting information and a great narrative of the demise of the 17th, 18th & 19th Roman Legions under command of Publius Quinctilius Varus in Germany during the year 9 A.D. The author tells two interesting and interconnected stories in this book. One covers his archeological hunt for the site of the final demise of the Roman Legions. The other story that parallels this quest is a fictional account, which is based on the early Roman Histories, later German historians and the archeological evidence, offering the reader the most likely scenario to explain the destruction of three Roman Legions of over 20,000 men in a dark German forest so many years ago.<br />Both stories are well told. Initially I enjoyed the author's account of his quest in locating Roman artifacts whilst based in Germany with the British Army. However, after awhile into the book I became hooked on the story about the Roman Legions, the men and their commanders. Towards the end of the book I found it hard to put down as the narrative speed towards the final battle. I knew what was coming but the story had me enthralled, I couldn't put the book away, I had to keep reading. In the end I was quite caught up in the fate of Marcus Aius and one of the Signifers (Standard Bearers) of the Roman Legions.<br />This is an exceptional book told with a knack for great story telling. How accurate is the authors telling of the final battle between the German warriors and the Roman Legions under Varus? Who knows, maybe the future will confirm Major Clunn's theory but either way this is a well told story and I am sure anyone who enjoys ancient history or accounts of the glory days of the Roman Empire will love this book.lling of the final battle between the German warriors and the Roman Legions under Varus? Who knows, maybe the future will confirm Major Clunn's theory but either way this is a well told story and I am sure anyone who enjoys ancient history or accounts of the glory days of the Roman Empire will love this book.	2002-02-10
US	53066131	R11CSX6Q8FFIZ9	0805064583	32369664	Dr. Eckener's Dream Machine: The Great Zeppelin and the Dawn of Air Travel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Exciting Story of the 'Graf Zeppelin' and Airship History	\\"Oh, the humanity and all the passengers... a mass of flaming wreckage.\\" These are the famous words uttered by radio reporter Herbert Morrison who witnessed the destruction of the `Hindenberg' in 1937. Who wasn't heard these words or seen the film footage of the `Hindenburg' sinking in flames to the ground at the landing field at Lakehurst?<br />Now this new book can give you the amazing story behind these massive German airships that traveled the world's skies in the early part of the last century. This book provides the reader with an interesting story of not only the development and use of the Zeppelin but also a story about the one man who was intimately involved with their history, from their beginning until their end with the flaming destruction of the `Hindenburg'.<br />The first dirigible was invented by Ferdinand von Zeppelin and was launched in 1900 on the Bodensee in Germany. However it was Dr. Hugo Eckener who saw the future potential of the airship as a viable commercial craft. By the late 1930s airships nearly the size of the Titanic had circumnavigated the globe and were regularly transporting passengers and mail from Europe to South America and the United States.<br />This book not only tells you the story behind these amazing trips, full of danger and excitement but he also tells the story of the Zeppelin as a weapon of destruction. During World War One the German Army and Navy utilized Zeppelin's to carry out raids against England in the first night time `Blitz'. We read about the great Zeppelin Commanders, Strasser and Mathy and many others, most who did not survive the campaign against England. We then follow the Zeppelin into the turbulent years of peace and its historic role in global flights, setting new records in distance, endurance and comfort.<br />This is an amazing story, full of facts and interesting pieces of history. The story is told so well and the narrative flows so smoothly its like reading an exciting novel. I found it hard to put the book down and as I read page after page I realized that I knew very little about the `Graf Zeppelin' and next to nothing about its amazing Captain, Dr. Hugo Eckener. I am sure that anyone who enjoys aviation history or just a good book will love this story.put the book down and as I read page after page I realized that I knew very little about the `Graf Zeppelin' and next to nothing about its amazing Captain, Dr. Hugo Eckener. I am sure that anyone who enjoys aviation history or just a good book will love this story.	2002-01-24
US	53066131	R3XTUAEPX6GC8	1862270546	214381809	SEPOYS IN THE TRENCHES: The Indian Corps on The Western Front 1914-1915	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Well Presented Account of the Indian Corps in WW1	This well researched and nicely presented book, by Gordon Corrigan, offers the reader an insightful and interesting account of the Indian Corps during the first year of the Great War. The book provides a detailed combat narrative of the period between 1914 - 1915 when the Indian Corps served on the Western Front. The author, who served in the British Army from 1962 to 1998, spent some time in command of a Gurkha unit and his love for these brave and resourceful soldiers shows in this account.<br />The book is well written and covers a large range of material and subjects concerning the Indian units who served on the Western Front as part of the BEF until they were re-deployed to Mesopotamia in November 1915. Not only are the battles covered in detail but the make-up and performance of the Indian Corps is assessed and a number of myths and stories are clarified and laid to rest.<br />The author takes the time to give you the background of the Indian Corps and how it was organized and recruited to function under much different circumstances than the attritional warfare of the Western Front. He then shows the problems encountered by the Indian Army on the Western Front due to it being raised, trained and equipped to fight skirmishes on the Indian frontiers and not a modern European war.<br />At the end of the book you feel that the officers and men of the Indian Corps did an outstanding job during that first year of the Great War and that they might not have received the credit that they were due. That they had fought in every major British battle during that period and suffered horrendous casualties fighting in a country they knew little of and in a war that had nothing to do with them and still retained their loyalty and faith in the British Empire was quite amazing.<br />The author has utilised a number of first-hand accounts throughout the narrative, which give you a small idea and feeling of the Indian troops fighting in France. A number of black &amp; white photographs and detailed maps are provided throughout the book and are of a decent standard. Overall this is an excellent account covering a little known and sparsely written about aspect of the First World War. I am sure that any student or reader of this period of history will enjoy this book and will learn something new to take away after putting the book back on its shelf.graphs and detailed maps are provided throughout the book and are of a decent standard. Overall this is an excellent account covering a little known and sparsely written about aspect of the First World War. I am sure that any student or reader of this period of history will enjoy this book and will learn something new to take away after putting the book back on its shelf.	2002-01-20
US	53066131	R2M5LF9FBNIS2V	031222687X	404528212	Royal Survivor: The Life of Charles II	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Excellent Story of an Perplexing King	Stephen Coote's biography on Charles II is an enjoyable story of a man who the author has titled `Royal Survivor'. This book, which is just under 400 pages (hardback format), takes the reader on a trip with Charles II, through his trials and tribulations, his victories and his defeats. We follow Charles II from boyhood, the death of his father and his attempt to re-claim the throne which met its end at the Battle of Worcester. Then the author takes us along with Charles II as he makes an exciting escape from England back into exile and then his triumphant return to the Throne of England.<br />We then settle into an account of Charles II as the King of England, his conflicts with Parliament and the tales of his many mistresses. We follow the story through the period of the Restoration and other great events that occurred during his reign. After finishing this book I really believed that I had gained a better understanding of the subject and the times. In fact I came away from feeling that the King wasn't all that bad and maybe he did try to do his best for England (within a certain framework).<br />Not only did the book offer an account of Charles II and his private life but we are also provided with accounts of his struggle with the Dutch provinces, France and its King, along with the plague and the Great Fire of London. I would not consider the book to be an in-depth biography but more of a narrative history offering the reader a general overview of the subject. That said, I still found the story interesting and learnt quite a few things along the way.<br />I believe that anyone who enjoys good history without too many dates and names will be quite taken with this account of Charles II. The book provides the reader with a free flowing narrative, holding your interest throughout the whole story. The book is well presented and has a number of black and white photographs of the period. Overall this is an excellent story and well worth the time to read.	2002-01-08
US	53066131	R1SVIIKXVBWWOG	0750917873	937615549	The Anglo-Dutch Naval Wars 1652-1674	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Enjoyable &amp; Interesting Account of the English &amp; Dutch Wars	This book, `The Anglo-Dutch Naval Wars, 1652-1674' by Roger Hainsworth and Christine Churches is a very enjoyable account of the naval wars fought between England and the Netherlands. The many battles fought took place from the period of Cromwell's Commonwealth through to the reign of Charles II. The book is broken up into two main sections; `The First Dutch War' and then `The Later Wars'.<br />The narrative flows smoothly and the story is well told, we come across many of the names we have all heard at school. Captains like Robert Blake, Prince Rupert, Cornelis Tromp and Michiel de Ruyter, plus many more naval commanders, some famous some infamous. The sections covering the fighting are well told and a number of first-hand accounts are used throughout the narrative to give you a better feeling of the terrors of naval fighting at that time.<br />The book is well researched and presented and I enjoyed the story a great deal. I have only read bits and pieces about these conflicts in other books covering this period; this is the first book that I have come across that has covered these naval wars in such detail.<br />Overall I think most people would enjoy the story as much as I did. The book is 212 pages in length and is full of lovely plates and paintings taken from the National Maritime Museum at Greenwich in London (sadly all in black and white). A number of maps are also supplied in the book but are of a basic nature.	2002-01-08
US	53066131	RCP6NXC7F0JOF	0300087195	676428637	Salamanca, 1812	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Interesting Account of a Peninsular Battle	Rory Muir's new title in the field of Napoleonic history, `Salamanca 1812', is another one of his brilliant efforts. After his previous two books, `Britain and the Defeat of Napoleon' (which won the best book of the year award of the International Napoleonic Society) and `Tactics and the Experience of Battle in the Age of Napoleon' its good to see that he has returned with another great Napoleonic title.<br />This account, which covers one of the great battles of the Peninsular War, provides the reader with an excellent narrative of the events leading up to the battle of Salamanca in 1812, the battle itself and the aftermath. The author has taken a novel approach in this book by splitting each chapter (thirteen in all) into two sections. The main section of each chapter tells the story of the battle and events related to it. The author uses numerous first-hand accounts, from both sides of the fighting, to give the reader a feel for the fighting as experienced by the participants.<br />The second section of each chapter takes a more in-depth look at the numerous sources available on the battle in question, many well know and a few lesser-known authors as well. The rational behind this is the author's attempt to answer many of the controversies that have arisen over time in relation to the battle. He uses numerous sources to flesh out the questions and problems and offers answers based on a logical appreciation of the known facts.<br />This format (two sections per chapter) does not detract from your reading pleasure; in fact if you do not wish to read the `commentary section' you will not lose anything. If you wish to delve further into the conflict or try to find answers to certain questions then you can do so without fear that the narrative is going to get confusing.<br />The book is 322 pages in length with numerous maps which were of a decent standard and easy to follow. There are a number of Appendixes (5 in total) covering Allied and French strength and losses along with a mini tour guide of the battlefield as it is today. The book also has a number of black and white photographs; many take of the battlefield by the author.<br />Overall this is a decent account of an interesting and significant Peninsular War battle written by one of the leading authors on the subject of the Napoleonic Wars. I am sure that many Napoleonic buffs will enjoy this account.s along with a mini tour guide of the battlefield as it is today. The book also has a number of black and white photographs; many take of the battlefield by the author. <br />Overall this is a decent account of an interesting and significant Peninsular War battle written by one of the leading authors on the subject of the Napoleonic Wars. I am sure that many Napoleonic buffs will enjoy this account.	2002-01-08
US	53066131	R1WIZM1YMIFQ56	1585744247	90595957	The Voyage of the Armada: The Spanish Story	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Exciting Story of the &quot;Enterprise against England&quot;	This wonderfully descriptive book by the English author, David Howarth, is well worth reading if you have a desire to learn about the Spanish Armada and the \\"Enterprise against England\\". Although this book, `The Voyage of the Armada' (1981) is not as detailed as `The Armada' (1959) by Garrett Mattingly, its still a great story and well worth the time to read.<br />By all accounts this story of the enterprise is told as it was seen through the eyes and experiences of the Spanish soldiers and sailors and is very well done in that regard. Using first hand accounts found in numerous Spanish letters and reports, many previously not utilised before, the story comes alive and gives you a real feeling and understanding of the participants, many who did not survive to tell their tale.<br />One aspect of the book that I found pleasing was that the author took the story past the battle with the English fleet. David Howarth provides the reader with an account of what happened to the ships and men who actually survived the \\"dash\\" up the Channel. Those who were shipwrecked along the Irish coast were subjected to even more terror than they had experienced so far and very few survived.<br />The real hero of this story is Medina Sidonia, the commander of the Spanish ships, and I found myself wondering could anyone have done any better under similar circumstances? This is a great story with an exciting narrative and although it only runs to 250 pages (hardback edition) I found I came away with a better understanding of what happened and why. This book would be a great companion volume to `The Armada' by Garrett Mattingly but can stand alone as a decent and well presented account of the \\"Armada\\".	2001-12-02
US	53066131	R3UEMVIPYKGU1O	0432116001	76735309	Hussar General: Life of Blucher	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Interesting Military Biography	Roger Parkinson's short but highly readable biography of Field Marshal Blucher, \\"The Hussar General\\" is a great story. Originally published in 1975 and although only 264 pages in length he still manages to tell an interesting and fast paced account of this most interesting Prussian General. The book is packed with accounts of the battles and skirmishes that Blucher participated in during the battles of the French Revolutionary Wars and the later on during the Napoleonic Wars.<br />This is not an in-depth biography so don't expect too much detail in relation to the early life of Blucher, its mainly a military biography and covers that aspect of this great man's life adequately.  To the military reader this book will provide an exciting story of a general that fought more battles against Napoleon Bonaparte than any other General. The narrative comes alive with accounts from participants in this exciting and horrifying but fascinating and bloody, period.<br />The book covers all his major actions and offers the reader a decent overview of his career. The story is well told and a number of maps are provided to assist the reader to follow the narrative although they are not of a high standard. Overall this is a great introduction to the life and times of General Gebhard Leberecht von Blucher.<br />Note: This review is in regards to the `Wordsworth Editions Ltd, ISBN: 1840222530, available from Amazon.co.UK at ... UK Pounds.	2001-10-18
US	53066131	R2CJ1UWNVQBAR8	0785813675	170027336	Two Sides of the Beach: The Invasion and Defense of Europe in 1944	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Interesting First-hand Accounts of the Normandy Campaign	Edmund Blandford's book, `Two Sides of the Beach' offers the reader an interesting insight into the British and German soldiers who were involved in the attack and defence of the Normandy beaches in 1944. This book is mainly a collection of first hand accounts provided by front line soldiers, officers and members of the General Staff. The accounts detail the fighting from the invasion on June 6th 1944, until the final Allied breakout during `Operation Totalise'. The accounts are woven skillfully together by the author and present a fairly complete picture of the campaign as seen through the eyes of the British and Canadian `Tommies' as well as soldiers of the German Army and Waffen-SS.<br />By no means is this a comprehensive account of the Normandy campaign, it is more of an oral history similar in style to Gerald Astor or Lyn MacDonald and just as good. This book would blend in well and complement such campaign studies as Max Hasting's `Overlord' (1984) or Carlo D'este's `Decision in Normandy' (1983) as well as many other detailed histories. The beauty of this book is in the first-hand accounts provided by the participants, they are brutally honest and refreshing. They give you a real idea of what the soldiers endured during the fighting for Normandy and the subsequent breakout.<br />The only problem that I found with this book was the total lack of maps, just a few of the area would have been appreciated. However a number of good black &amp; white photographs were provided in the book that fitted in with the story. Overall this was a most interesting account and the narrative was fast paced and well researched. I am sure that anyone who enjoys a good historical account or has a passion for the Normandy campaign will appreciate this book.	2001-10-14
US	53066131	R3E390F8I9WVHX	0304353051	200278898	The Road to Rivoli: Napoleon's First Campaign	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Great &amp; Exciting Account of Napoleon's Italian Campaign	This exciting new book on Napoleon's Italian campaign of 1796 by Martin Boycott-Brown is a great story of Napoleon Bonaparte's first military campaign. In over 500 pages of text the author presents a fluid and easy to follow account of the actions and maneuvers of this military genius. He starts the book with a number of chapters outlining the French and Austrian armies, their weapons and tactics, and a brief account of Napoleon's rise to the command of the French armies in Italy.<br />From there the author takes us on a journey with Napoleon and his army as they march and battle against the combined forces of the Allied armies in Italy. The narrative is easy to follow, is well written and researched and has numerous first-hand accounts throughout.<br />The only major problem that I have with this book is the maps. I think that there could have been a few more and they should have been placed in the relevant areas of the narrative. I also think that the standard of those supplied could have been of a higher quality. Further, considering that the author lived in the area of these battles, I would have liked to have seen a few photographs of the region and personalities involved.<br />Those criticisms aside, overall this is an excellent book covering a period of Napoleon's career that is usually glossed over in most current studies. I am sure that the majority of readers who enjoy this period of history or who like good solid accounts of military history will thoroughly enjoy this book.<br />\\"The most detailed and coherent account of the campaign that I have ever read.... A truly first-rate study.\\" - Philip Haythornthwaite	2001-10-01
US	53066131	R262DMEQZ99QQH	0786708581	947319022	The Last Battle: The Mayaguez Incident and the End of the Vietnam War	Books	5	10	13	N	N	A Great Account, Well Worth Reading!	This book by Ralph Wetterhahn deserves the five star ratings that it has received to date by Amazon.com reviewers. This is a great story; told in the manner similar to Mark Bowden's `Black Hawk Down' and both books sit proudly in my library. Prior to reading this account of the `Mayaguez' incident I had very little knowledge of what had occurred other than an American ship had been seized by communist forces during or just after the Vietnam War. I wasn't aware that American military personnel had lost their lives in retaking the ship or even that a battle had been fought.<br />This book, for me, was full of surprises. The details about the micro-management of the rescue mission, the large number of aircraft, ships and men involved and the large loss of equipment and men were all \\"eye openers\\". I read with surprise that within so little time after the end of the conflict in Vietnam that the higher echelons of the American military seemed to have forgotten all the hard lessons learnt during that war. When you read this book you cannot help but come away with nothing but praise for the soldiers, sailors and airmen involved in the mission. The story of the three man machine-gun crew was sad, more so because the author had taken the time to research their background and final fate.<br />It is understandable why the American Government wanted to hide the fate of these men and I would hope that those involved felt some remorse or shame in the shabby treatment that these men's actions and memory have received. Overall this is a great story with a pacey narrative that is full of action and detail. It was also interesting to be able to follow the fighting during the assault on Koh Tang from the perspective of the Khmer Rouge. The accounts of the author's visits to Cambodia and his follow up interviews with family and friends of the missing along with the surviving Khmer Rouge were quite interesting and gave the story that much more biting effect.<br />If you enjoyed books like `Black Hawk Down' and `Flags of our Fathers' then I am sure that you'll enjoy this book. This is the sort of story that all serving members and their leaders should read and I would like to say how deeply I felt towards those men who flew into hostile fire and those who stayed behind to cover their comrades at Koh Tang.e `Black Hawk Down' and `Flags of our Fathers' then I am sure that you'll enjoy this book. This is the sort of story that all serving members and their leaders should read and I would like to say how deeply I felt towards those men who flew into hostile fire and those who stayed behind to cover their comrades at Koh Tang.	2001-07-16
US	53066131	R3MJXRHZXPJ2EB	0771029268	28278882	Reap the Whirlwind: The Untold Story of 6 Group, Canada's Bomber Force of World War II	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Excellent Account of Canadians in Bomber Command	`Reap The Whirlwind' is one of the best books I have read in recent years on the men and machines of the Royal Air Force's Bomber Command during World War Two. First published in 1992 by Crecy Books Ltd this title tells the \\"untold\\" story of 6 Group, Canada's bomber force of WWII. As the title suggests the story is about the role of the Canadian contribution to the nighttime bomber campaign against occupied Europe during the Second World War.<br />However the stories within the book reflect the awful war as experienced by all bomber crews during this horrific campaign. I found the personal accounts to be sad, heroic and sometimes funny but the image that remained in my mind after finishing this book was the untold numbers of men who died and never had the chance to tell their stories. How many crews left their bases on a mission never to return and none of their comrades and families ever knew what happened to them?<br />They were swallowed up in the dark of night and became victims of German night-fighters or flak, their planes never seen again. After reading this book you'll get an understanding of what these men went through, some of the stories are just mind numbing. In particular is the story of Andrew C. Mynarski, 6 Group's sole Victoria Cross winner. This brave 27-year-old Canadian was a mid-upper gunner on a 419 Squadron Lancaster who lost his life during a mission in June 1944 (pages 276-278).<br />The narrative is fast paced, informative but never boring or dull. The story is well told and is a brilliant account of the harsh realities of an aerial bombing campaign as conducted by the RAF over Germany. The book starts with an introduction to the first bomber offensive in 1917 and finishes with an account of the 1990 reunion of the survivors. The authoritative text has numerous personal accounts of the aircrews woven into the story and overall the book reads well.<br />The only complaint I have with this book is the standard of the photographs. I would have liked more and of a better quality. Regardless of that this is still a great story and I think that anyone who has an interest in this period or who really wants to understand why these men did what they did and what happened to them then this is the book to read.e liked more and of a better quality. Regardless of that this is still a great story and I think that anyone who has an interest in this period or who really wants to understand why these men did what they did and what happened to them then this is the book to read.	2001-07-08
US	53066131	R3EGL5WJIIDCZB	0933126875	925200325	The Ship That Would Not Die	Books	4	35	35	N	N	Moving Account of a Small Ship and its Crew	I have just finished reading 'The Ship that would not Die' by Julian Becton. The book tells the story of the USS LAFFEY and the men who served on her during the Second World War. The book tells the story from the perspective of her commanding officer, Julian Becton, and covers the period from the USS LAFFEY's commissioning in 1943 till its de-commissioning in 1975.<br />The main part of the story is of course the account of the USS LAFFEY's role fighting off twenty-two Japanese Kamikaze aircraft during the Okinawa campaign. However the book offers more than that, it starts with a short account of the first USS LAFFEY in World War Two which was lost during the fighting off Guadalcanal against the Japanese Battleship Hiei. An action that the author participated in while serving on the USS Aaron Ward.<br />The author then takes us through the building of the new USS LAFFEY (DD724) , the assembly of its crew and officers, its commissioning and subsequent role in the Normandy campaign of 1944. The story then follows the USS LAFFEY to the Pacific where it took part in the campaign to liberate the Philippines. From there we follow the LAFFEY and crew to Iwo Jima and then to Okinawa where the USS LAFFEY was subsequently assigned a role in the Destroyer picket line.<br />This picket line was a system designed to provide an early warning of approaching Japanese forces to the American fleet and assault troops fighting around Okinawa. The ships in this picket line also served as a lightning rod to the Japanese Kamikaze planes. For most part the destroyers and other ships were isolated from the main fleet and as such appeared to be easy targets for the Japanese. As the narrative unfolds in this book it shows that this was not always the case.<br />On April 16th, 1945 whilst at radar picket station number 1 the USS LAFFEY was attacked by twenty-two Japanese aircraft. The destroyer took a hell of a beating but managed to stay afloat after massive damage and the loss of 32 men killed and 71 wounded, some with horrific injuries.<br />I found that I managed to feel a deep respect not only for the crew, that's expected of course, but also for the Japanese flyers. I don't know if that was the author's intention but occasionally he would describe something that allowed you to visualize the young Japanese pilot in his cockpit as his plane is closing in for the final plunge into eternity. Then it hits you that these poor pilots were young men just doing their duty for their country just as much as the young American's trying to shoot them down.<br />The narrative at times may come across a bit &quot;corny&quot; to some readers but the book was first published in 1980 and I believe the author is just conveying the feelings of those who served at that time. The story moves along at a quick pace and you really feel for some of the men, the silent heroes in this terrible incident, who died at their posts or in trying to save their ship mates. This is a good book and a great story of one ship and its brave crew during the Second World War. I have no hesitation in recommending this book to anyone who enjoys accounts of naval combat or stories of the fighting during WW2.led and 71 wounded, some with horrific injuries. <br />I found that I managed to feel a deep respect not only for the crew, that's expected of course, but also for the Japanese flyers. I don't know if that was the author's intention but occasionally he would describe something that allowed you to visualize the young Japanese pilot in his cockpit as his plane is closing in for the final plunge into eternity. Then it hits you that these poor pilots were young men just doing their duty for their country just as much as the young American's trying to shoot them down.<br />The narrative at times may come across a bit &quot;corny&quot; to some readers but the book was first published in 1980 and I believe the author is just conveying the feelings of those who served at that time. The story moves along at a quick pace and you really feel for some of the men, the silent heroes in this terrible incident, who died at their posts or in trying to save their ship mates. This is a good book and a great story of one ship and its brave crew during the Second World War. I have no hesitation in recommending this book to anyone who enjoys accounts of naval combat or stories of the fighting during WW2.	2001-06-20
US	53066131	RU20H2DHN1OIJ	0767904133	8015663	Close to Shore: A True Story of Terror in An Age of Innocence	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Horrifying Tale - Great Reading	I have just finished reading `Close to Shore', it took just two days to read which is an indication of how good the story is and not that it's a short book. The author, Michael Capuzzo tells the horrifying story of how a rogue shark took a number of innocent lives in the United States back in 1916. The narrative runs for 298 pages and although it may appear to start off sluggish when the book begins with the lead up to the first attack it becomes hard to put down.<br />Some reviews have mentioned that the author fills up the story with subsidiary information but I don't think that is the case. I believe he is trying to put a picture into the reader's mind of how people lived back in those days and why they thought and acted as they did, some what foreign to us modern people of the 21st century.<br />I was amazed to read how Americans never considered the Great White as a potential threat, but back then they didn't and sadly quite a few people suffered for it. The story of the shark and the attacks it made on humans along the East Coast of American is very well told and held my interest throughout. I would have to agree with a previous review that a few photographs would have been of enormous benefit to this book.<br />I don't know if this book is any better or not than the other book currently on the market titled `Twelve Days of Terror' by Richard Fernicola. However I can honestly say that `Close to Shore' has sparked my interest so much that I am going to buy that book as well. The story is very well told and the author has placed numerous facts about the shark in general and the Great White in particular throughout the narrative. I never got bored with the story and I found myself reading late into the next morning.<br />I couldn't help but tell my wife snippets of information about the Great White as I was reading the book and she complained of having nightmares that night! This is a good book, I don't know if its the best book on the market at the moment but I can say that it's worth the time to sit down and read. Very enjoyable!can say that it's worth the time to sit down and read. Very enjoyable!	2001-06-03
US	53066131	R14F4QRO2M9WRS	1568360223	600103002	The Great Game: The Struggle for Empire in Central Asia (Kodansha Globe)	Books	5	184	194	N	N	Excellent History of the 'Great Game'	Peter Hopkirk's book `The Great Game: The Struggle for Empire in Central Asia' is a great historical account and a very enjoyable book to read. It is very rare nowadays to find a book that holds your attention throughout, without finding one boring section, this is one of those books. In over 560 pages (paperback edition) Peter Hopkirk tells the amazing stories of a number of early British and Russian officers and men involved in the great imperial struggle for supremacy in Central Asia.<br />I found myself reading late into the morning, at times I couldn't put the book down. Most of the time I had heard of the places and people involved but a lot of this story was new to me. The narrative read like a novel, gripping but informative, never boring and full of information, breathing life into history in a way that is hard to find now-a-days.<br />This is a great book and I fully agree with the quote on the front cover of the book by Jan Morris \\"Peter Hopkirk is truly the laureate of the Great Game.\\" If you ever wanted to learn something about this large and remote area then this is the book to start with. If you enjoy military history then this book has it, if you enjoy historical accounts of exploration then this book has it, if you just enjoy good history then this book has it all.<br />The story of Britain and Russia carving out their Empires in India, Afghanistan and the surrounding areas is truly fascinating and I was amazed at the brave and resourceful men who carved their name in history during this period. Most people have heard of the Khyber Pass and places like Chitral however I had never heard of the Pamirs and Karakorams mountain ranges or of the Kerman and Helmund deserts nor of some of the fierce and warlike tribes that lived in these areas.<br />After reading this book I yearn for more information about this region and I intend to buy the rest of Peter Hopkirk's books. I would rate this book one of the better ones I have read this year and to finish my review I would like to quote Byron Farwell from his review in `The New York Times':<br />\\"Those who enjoy vividly told tales of derring-do and seek a clear understanding of the history of the emerging central Asian countries will find this a glorious book.\\"y review I would like to quote Byron Farwell from his review in `The New York Times':<br />\\"Those who enjoy vividly told tales of derring-do and seek a clear understanding of the history of the emerging central Asian countries will find this a glorious book.\\"	2001-06-01
US	53066131	R2Z7FCQ6V57CE6	0880642610	54448779	Frederick the Great: King of Prussia	Books	5	29	32	N	N	Excellent Military Biography	Once again, David Fraser, author of 'Knight's Cross: A Life of Field Marshal Erwin Rommel' has produced another masterful biography. This beautifully told story of Frederick the Great is an outstanding account of a great military leader. You can certainly feel that Fraser has a love for this subject, even when Frederick has committed a terrible blunder the author tends to put the best light on the event as possible. This is one of the best biographies I have read on Frederick the Great and superior to most that have been available to date. In over 700 pages the author tells the story of Frederick, his conflict with his father, his love for the arts, his role as a military commander, as a King, a diplomat, as the creator of the great Prussian Army.<br />The author's accounts of the battles fought by Frederick are excellent and you can understand why Fraser has such a deep respect for this man. There are many accounts of Frederick leading his troops in the thick of the fighting. Losing horses under him, his aids and Generals being killed alongside him, bullet holes through his clothing. This is a commander who led from the front. Fraser also shows the many mistakes made by Frederick which led to some of the bloodiest and costliest battles in Europe during this period. After reading of some of these battles you wonder why his men followed him into others, but they did and that is what stands out about this man. He actually cared for his troops, his people and his country.<br />This is a great story and covers all aspects of Frederick. I believe that the maps could have been a bit more detailed but they were good enough to follow the narrative. In all 18 maps were supplied and they assisted the reader in following the battles and movements of Frederick and his armies. The story flowed along smoothly and it was a joy to read, time slipped by effortlessly as Fraser helped you look into the man that was 'Frederick the Great'. I have no hesitation in recommending this book to anyone who enjoys a great history book. Well done to the author.k to anyone who enjoys a great history book. Well done to the author.	2001-04-14
US	53066131	R24JMFV7NQAT1J	1853674354	751060898	1813 Leipzig: Napoleon and the Battle of the Nations	Books	3	18	21	N	N	Decent Account of the &quot;Battle of the Nations&quot;	I had great expectations when I started reading this book. As soon as I saw the cover I knew that I had to read it, since there have been so few decent accounts of this pivotal battle. At long last a new book on the 1813 battle of Leipzig, the `Battle of Nations'.<br />Alas it was not as good as I hoped. Although I found the research excellent and the first hand accounts very interesting the book was missing something. What it lacked, for me anyhow, was a story. The narrative was dry with lots of detail but it didn't seem to flow, to get you involved, as a good story should. I know the author is not writing a novel but a book that is just full of facts and details will lose its audience if its too dry to keep the reader awake.<br />I found the maps to be OK but I still found times when the author mentioned a place and I failed to locate it. This book will be of great benefit to the war-gamers and hardcore Napoleonic War readers. However for a person who is looking for a free flowing account that just pulls you into the story and at the same time gives you the facts required to understand what happened and why this book may be a hard slog.	2001-03-29
US	53066131	R1CYN4EFEFM9K2	0304352845	423622789	The Punic Wars	Books	5	72	75	N	N	Excellent History	\\"DELENDA EST CARTHAGO\\"<br />\\"Carthage Must be Destroyed\\" those most famous words were spoken by Marcus Porcius Cato in the 2nd Century BC. In this new book on the Punic Wars by Adrian Goldsworthy we are taken back into this most fascinating period of history. We follow in the steps of Hannibal, Hasdrubal, Hamilcar, Scipio Africanus and many more famous and infamous commanders and leaders as the Roman Legions and the soldiers and sailors of Carthage clash in this gigantic struggle of the Ancient World.<br />Each of the three wars are described in as much detail as possible bearing in mind the lack of primary sources for some periods. We follow the stalemate in Sicily during the First Punic War (264-241 BC). Then the more famous struggle in Spain and Italy during the Second Punic War (218-202 BC), followed by the final Roman victory in the Third Punic War (149-146 BC).<br />The author provides details of all the famous battles, Trebia, Lake Trasimene, Cannae and of course Zama. He also follows the lesser-known campaigns in Spain, Macedonia and Sicily. I found the author to be very fair in his assessment of the commanders and their decisions and offers comments on the sources used in his book and others.<br />I would compare this book favourably with Nigel Bagnall's `Punic Wars' and both books sit proudly in my library. The author took the time to explain the military traditions, training and tactics of the two opponents, which assisted greatly when it came to follow the battles. 16 maps are provided to assist in the narrative and all where of a decent standard however, no illustrations were to be found in the book.<br />The book was easy to read and the narrative flowed along faultlessly. Overall this is a very decent one-volume account of the Punic Wars and I would recommend it to anyone who enjoys decent history or who has a love for this period.	2001-03-18
US	53066131	R31EWWYRXA5ZJO	027596857X	246949199	Retreat to the Reich: The German Defeat in France, 1944	Books	4	24	24	N	N	Decent Overview of German Defeat in France, 1944	This new book from Samuel W. Mitcham, Jr., author of numerous books on the German armed forces during World War Two, is another great addition to literature on that subject. In this book the author covers the German defeat in France after the Allied invasion in June 1944. In just over 270 pages Mitcham offers the reader an interesting account of the German measures to defeat the Normandy invasion, the story is well told and the narrative flowed along quite smoothly.<br />The book is no where as detailed as the classic account by Carlo D'este, `Decision in Normandy' published in 1983. However it does offer a very good overview of the invasion at Normandy and the fighting in the bocage country along with the subsequent invasion of Southern France. The story continues with the Allied drive to the Rhine and the failed airborne operation `Market Garden'. One of the best points about this book is that it offers a biography of each of the major commanders and a mini history of each major fighting unit. The author presents this information in a way that it does not interrupt the story, it enhances it.<br />There are a number of first hand accounts by participants on both sides of the fighting and the author makes a number of interesting observations about the German and Allied forces and their commanders. The photographs supplied were OK but I think could have been better presented and I am a bit suspicious about some of the captions. The main disappointment with this book is the standard of the maps. They could have been a lot better and more detailed. This seems to be a common problem with a number of books on the market at the moment and I only hope that some publishers take note.<br />Overall I found this book to be an interesting and enjoyable read and I think that most people who have an interest in this subject should enjoy it. I would make the point however that this is more of a general overview of this campaign and not a detailed combat history. Regardless of that I hope the author intends to follow on with a book covering the Ardennes Offensive and the final drive into Germany.at I hope the author intends to follow on with a book covering the Ardennes Offensive and the final drive into Germany.	2001-03-09
US	53066131	R1GIM1QD1RMWCR	047138495X	745209121	Unrestricted Warfare: How a New Breed of Officers Led the Submarine Force to Victory in World War II	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Interesting Account of Submarine Warfare in the Pacific	This book offers the novice reader an interesting insight to a number of the better-known US submarine skippers of World War Two. I would tend to agree that the book is much narrower in scope than the title suggests but for all that it still offers an exciting account of submarine warfare as experienced by the US Navy in the Pacific. It was revealing to read an account of a war crime committed by crew-members of one American submarine but I suppose that this just goes to show how war can brutalize even the best of men.<br />Overall I found the book interesting and engaging but it did not grab me as fully as previous accounts that I have read on submarine warfare. I did enjoy the accounts of what became of the men in the book after the war. The account of the sinking of the `Tang' was well done and it really did bring home to the reader how tragic the end of a submarine could be.<br />One minor point that spoilt my reading of this otherwise well written and presented book was that at times I felt the author was belittling the efforts of German U-boat crews, only Americans could do the job properly. Overall though I came away after reading this book thankful of the efforts of these brave men. I hope that if by reading this book people come to realise how many young men lost their lives for the benefit of us all.	2001-03-07
US	53066131	R2W60AEOF2R6WI	0898707471	943940037	The Red Horse: A Novel	Books	5	38	39	N	N	One of the best WW2 novels in recent Years	Recently I was sent a copy of Eugenio Corti's novel `The Red Horse' to read. This looked like a daunting task as the book is over 1,000 pages in length. However I was amazed that the pages just seem to fly by. The novel is set in Italy during the Second World War and tells the story of how the war affected Italy and its people through the eyes of some of the participants. The first hundred pages may seem a little boring but I must tell you that after that the narrative moves along at an exciting pace. The story of the Italian soldiers fighting in Russia was magnificent and I don't think that I could go to far wrong in comparing this section of the book to Guy Sajer's `The Forgotten Soldier'. The descriptions of the men and fighting were excellent and I found it hard to put the book down.<br />I know that many historical authors tend to dismiss the Italian fighting soldier of World War Two but when consideration is given to the weapons and equipment used by the Italian Army it is understandable why they are compared in such bad light to the German soldier or the Allies. I must admit that this book opened my eyes to the misery suffered by the Italian soldiers in Russia and it also fired a desire to read more about the Italian Alpine troops and their campaigns during World War Two, especially in Russia. As I mentioned earlier the first hundred pages may seem boring initially but when you get into the book it makes sense why the author went into such detail about the central characters as we follow them and their families through the war and into the final peace.<br />I cannot help but feel how the author has used his personal experience of serving on the Russian Front to make this such a great story; it is compelling reading. The accounts of the retreat during the Stalingrad battle are magnificent; you can actually picture the frozen wasteland as the soldiers tiredly trudge through the wind swept villages being hounded by the advancing Soviet troops. The accounts of the many rearguard actions are excellent and I really felt for the men who fell during the fighting. Many other reviews have mentioned that this is a powerful and moving novel of World War Two and I must concur with those sentiments. This is a great story and anyone who has an interest in the fighting on the Russian Front will be truly taken by this account.<br />The book continues on another level with the Allied invasion of Sicily in 1943 and the subsequent campaign in Italy. We follow accounts of the Italian partisans, Communists, Royalist and bandits. This again is another interesting level of the story and one, which I had very little knowledge of. I enjoyed this section of the book as much as the account of the Russian Front. The book does not finish with the war's end in 1945 but continues with the surviving characters through the harsh years of peace and political turmoil that Italy found itself in with the conflict between the Catholic Church and the Communist Party.<br />Overall this book was a delight to read but at times towards the end maybe I felt that the author was trying to convert me to the Catholic Church however it must been read in the context of the times. I would have no hesitation in recommending this book to anyone who wants to learn about Italy during the war or anyone who has an interest in the Eastern Front during WWII. This is a great story and one of the best novels I have read in years, well done to the author!the many rearguard actions are excellent and I really felt for the men who fell during the fighting. Many other reviews have mentioned that this is a powerful and moving novel of World War Two and I must concur with those sentiments. This is a great story and anyone who has an interest in the fighting on the Russian Front will be truly taken by this account.<br />The book continues on another level with the Allied invasion of Sicily in 1943 and the subsequent campaign in Italy. We follow accounts of the Italian partisans, Communists, Royalist and bandits. This again is another interesting level of the story and one, which I had very little knowledge of. I enjoyed this section of the book as much as the account of the Russian Front. The book does not finish with the war's end in 1945 but continues with the surviving characters through the harsh years of peace and political turmoil that Italy found itself in with the conflict between the Catholic Church and the Communist Party. <br />Overall this book was a delight to read but at times towards the end maybe I felt that the author was trying to convert me to the Catholic Church however it must been read in the context of the times. I would have no hesitation in recommending this book to anyone who wants to learn about Italy during the war or anyone who has an interest in the Eastern Front during WWII. This is a great story and one of the best novels I have read in years, well done to the author!	2001-02-14
US	53066131	R3VCZSU02ZM0GT	1563525526	565719904	No Higher Honor: The U.S.S. Yorktown and the Battle of Midway	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Insightful Account of men at War	`No Higher Honor: The U.S.S. Yorktown at the Battle of Midway' by Jeff Nesmith is a insightful account of the men who made up the crew of the US aircraft carrier `Yorktown' at the Battle of Midway. As one of the previous reviews has mentioned the title may be a bit misleading as the book really starts before America's entry into World War Two. But that is fine as the author gives you an idea of some of the characters of this story, he gives you a real look at the ordinary men who served on this ship. We hear stories from some of the ships crew, from pilots and the aircraft handlers and from some of the officers.<br />The narrative is easy to read and the personal accounts fit right into the flow of the book. I could really picture the story and the people; the author's style of writing put you right there. I was sadden by some of what I read, of the men who lost their lives during the fighting at Midway, of friends lost and bravery unseen and un-rewarded. This is a great story, maybe not the best book on a tactical/strategic level but one of the best covering the human element of war. The book has a number of black and white photographs many previously not seen before. Overall this is a good story and I think most people who enjoy a well-written history book will enjoy this account of a fine ship during a great battle of WW2.	2001-01-16
US	53066131	R24WUWCF05L6B6	0312265697	360270137	Clive: The Life and Death of a British Emperor	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Great Adventure	Having read this book when it was first released in Australia last year I must say I am glad to see that it has finally been released in the United States. This book grabbed me from the first page and held my interest to the very end. This is a great adventure story, told with panache and feeling. I was captivated throughout, reading about this great man's humble beginnings though to his campaigns in India where he made the British presence, clinging to a number of small trading posts, into an Empire and then his final demise.<br />The reader is transported to the far-flung reaches within India where Clive carved out a name for himself against the French and Indian rulers as a man of ambition and ruthless military cunning. His campaigns and battles are told within an exciting narrative that just moved along relentlessly like Clive's Army moving across the plains of India. This is a great story, a masterful piece of historical writing presented by Robert Harvey and I am sure it will be enjoyed by all that love a good history book.<br />I would compare this book very favourably to the likes of `Cochrane: Britannia's Last Sea Wolf' by Donald Thomas.  In fact I noticed that Robert Harvey also has a book on the market titled `Cochrane: The Life and Exploits of a Fighting Captain' which I have taken the liberty in ordering after his outstanding effort in telling the story of `Clive of India'.	2000-12-15
US	53066131	R105L68MB7S3VP	0802713505	923264418	The Perfect Heresy: The Revolutionary Life and Death of the Medieval Cathars	Books	4	19	24	N	N	Great Introduction to the Life of the Medieval Cathars.	In my library I have three books that cover the Crusade to destroy the Cathars in Southern France. This is one of the first I read and I found it be very enjoyable. In around 264 pages the author, Stephen O'Shea, gives you a decent overview of the life and death of these so-called `heretics'. The author also supplies numerous notes and a decent bibliography along with a guide to recommended reading. There are a number of small black &amp; white illustrations within the narrative but it would have been nice to see a few colour photographs of the locations visited by the author during the preparation of this book.<br />The story of the Crusade against the Cathars is truly horrifying in some places. The atrocities carried out by men of God against a peaceful population all in the name of religion is outstanding. During the Albigensian Crusade in 1209 Catholic Knights stormed the village of Beziers. Before breaching the walls they asked their spiritual leader, Arnold Amaury, how could they distinguish Catholic occupants from the heretics. His reply was \\"Kill them all, God will know his own.\\"<br />That one line sums up this terrifying period of French history. The continual battles, sieges and murders where followed by the Inquisition where friend betrayed friend, family betrayed family, all just to survive under the `just' rule of the Catholic Church. We read about that famous French Knight, Simon de Montfort and we find out that in reality he wasn't all that nice! We read about ordinary people, the true heroes of this story, just trying to survive and elk out a living during extraordinary times.<br />The narrative flowed along and you found yourself drawn into the story with the occasional tourist guide information. This is a great introduction to this period and it should appeal to all that enjoy good historical writing. I would also recommended Jonathan Sumption's `The Albigensian Crusade' and Zoe Oldenbourg's `The Massacre at Montsegur'.	2000-11-22
US	53066131	RTWAMG5YG37KI	1557509816	999801360	Flawed Victory: Jutland, 1916	Books	5	11	16	N	N	Read it for Yourself and decide	The previous reviewer from London is correct, there are some mistakes made by the author of this book. However I think that taken in the overall context of what the author was trying to present to the reader they do not diminish from the end result. In the introduction the author states:<br /> \\"As the bibliography will show, the book is based almost entirely on secondary sources, and I make no apology for this. It was never intended to be a piece of original scholarly research. There are surely no relevant facts or important details that have not been revealed after all this time in the many accounts and analyses written on the subject of Jutland. I believe I have not omitted or distorted any significant facts concerning the battle, or the North Sea actions preceding it.\\"<br />In relation to the other comment made about the \\"expert analysis\\" in regards to crew members flung clear from the blast the actual sentence reads:<br />\\"The Invincible survivors bravely cheered back as they clung to floating wreckage. There were only 6 men left out of a crew of 1,032, all of them from the foretop. The gallant Hood was not among them. One of the lucky ones was Dannreuther, who had been flung clear by the blast. He recalled later, `I just waited for the water to come up to meet me, then I stepped out and began swimming...'<br />The only one mentioned being flung clear of the blast was this one crewman, nothing said about the others in such manner. In regards to this crewman's story about being flung clear of the blast it may be a case of it needs a bit more clarification. Who knows where he was actually flung from or to but it's his words so I don't see a problem with what he is saying.<br />The author is an Oxford educated emeritus at the University of Toronto and a veteran of the Royal Navy so I am taking a guess he knows what he is talking about when it comes to naval action.<br />Regardless of these comments made by the reviewer from London I still found this a well-written book and enjoyable to read. For a person who has not previously read about this battle I found this a very easy to read account.book and enjoyable to read. For a person who has not previously read about this battle I found this a very easy to read account.	2000-10-21
US	53066131	R2SSNKAPMV9GDZ	0312230796	93948639	Crimea: The Great Crimean War, 1854-1856	Books	4	45	46	N	N	Enjoyable History of the Crimean War	I found this new account on the Crimean War by Trevor Royle to be a very  enjoyable and easy to read book. The story was well written and the  narrative just seemed to flow along, taking the reader on an exciting trip  through history. Although, as previously mentioned, the author does not  spend a great amount of time on describing the battles of this conflict, he  does manage to cover most aspects of this terrible war. I did find out a  number of things that I had not previously read in other books and his  descriptions of the battles were still well presented. Throughout the book  the author utilised personal accounts from a number of the participants and  these seemed to fit the narrative quite well.<br />Trevor Royle has taken the  time to give the reader a detailed account of the events leading up to the  Crimean War and for once this was as enjoyable to read as the actual  details of the conflict. I was fascinated by the story and at no time did I  find the book boring which sometimes happens when an author starts talking  about politics. I thought that maybe more maps could have been supplied but  those featured were detailed enough to follow the story. A number of black  and white photographs were also utilised to assist the reader follow the  story. However I feel that more photos of the conflict could have been used  especially since this was one of the first wars to receive so much media  attention, a point mentioned many times by the author.<br />The book is over  500 pages long and a number of the less known battles and conflicts, both  on land and sea, are covered by the author. I found that his defence of  Lord Raglan was well presented and deservedly so when consideration is  taken of the period and state of society from which Raglan emerged. Overall  this is a well-presented and enjoyable account of this terrible conflict  and I found it to be as good as Christopher Hibbert's `The Destruction of  Lord Raglan' and Alan Palmer's `The Banner of Battle'. I would recommend  this book to any person who enjoys a decent history book or just a good  read!e'. I would recommend  this book to any person who enjoys a decent history book or just a good  read!	2000-09-18
US	53066131	R2HWAP4NHRW3L8	0471185175	521419828	Broadsides: The Age of Fighting Sail, 1775-1815	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Great Story of the Period of Fighting Sail	This book of four hundred pages by Nathan Miller is a great and riveting account of the age of 'Fighting Sail'. The book covers the period from 1775 to the end of the Napoleonic Wars in 1815. Having read a number of books on Nelson, Sir Sidney Smith and Lord Cochrane I found this book a treat. It covered this great period of sail with a majestic overview, covering all the famous actions and commanders. Many of the stories I had heard before but the author's style of writing made it all seem new to me. I still found many things that I had never heard before and the book was full of fascinating stories.<br />The narrative was easy to read and just flowed along with accounts from the participants adding flavour to the story. Accounts such as the story about one French officer having himself placed in a tub of bran to slow the bleeding from his legs that had been blown away so he could continue to command. And another about how the water frothed from the feeding frenzy of the sharks after dead seamen had been dumped overboard during an engagement are just awesome when you sit back and think about the those images.<br />The story was fast paced and the author provided a number of drawings of some of the classic engagements and commanders. I would have liked to see some maps outlining positions taken by the ships before and during the battles but that is only a small complaint. If you are looking for a good and easy to read single volume account of this period I could not recommend a better book.<br />If you enjoyed this book I would also recommend Tom Pocock's 'A Thirst for Glory' which covers the life of Sir Sidney Smith and Donald Thomas's 'Cochrane: Britannia's Sea Wolf' which is a brilliant story of one of greatest Frigate commanders during the age of fighting sail.	2000-09-10
US	53066131	R15JIXZGDAXIFC	0802116728	555805000	Artemisia: A Novel	Books	5	36	36	N	N	A Truly Excellent Account of a Great Artist	This book by Alexandra Lapierre on the life of the female artist, Artemisia Gentileschi, is a fascinating study of the world of art and  Europe during the seventeenth Century. Having read a few books on  Caravaggio I had come across the name of Artemisia but knew very little of  her other than that she had been raped by another artist and later went on  to become quite famous herself. This book told the story of not only  Artemisia and her art but also her father, Orazio Gentileschi, and showed  how artistic rivalry, love, family, honour and a passion for art  interlocked their lives and careers.<br />The book is not a novel as the title  suggests but is indeed a historical biography of Artemisia Gentileschi and  her times. The author has used her skills as a novelist to fill gaps in the  story of Artemisia but only with the greatest sense of historical  correctness. The author has carried out extensive research on her subject  and has used the results of this research to help fill the gaps in the  story of this famous artist. She lets the reader know that at times she has  fictionalised some of the narrative but never the facts.<br />Alexandra  Lapierre provides the reader with comprehensive notes and references to  show the reader why she has decided to use certain narrative or placed a  particular slant on her perspective of some events. I found that this  manner of story telling in this particular account did not detract from the  book in any fashion. It may not please those historians or experts in the  field of art but to me, a novice, I found it a great approach to help the  reader understand this great artist and the times she lived in.<br />A number  of colour plates are provided of not only Artemisia's paintings but also  her fathers and other artists involved in her story. A number of maps have  also been placed in the book to assist the reader with following the story,  events and travels of Artemisia.<br />The story itself was well told and in  particular I found the account of the rape case very interesting. This is  an intriguing and very enjoyable book and I hope that the idea of some of  the narrative being fiction will not put other readers off. In fact the 80  pages of notes used by the author to support her account makes fascinating  reading in themselves. The book is over 500 pages and I found it a very  easy to read account and it has provoked in me a desire to learn more about  this great female artist. This book is well worth the effort to sit down  and read and I hope that many other readers out there enjoy this book as  much as I did.<br />Just for the interest other readers, in Australia the book  is titled `Artemisia: The Story of a Battle for Greatness'. Following are  some reviews taken from the back cover:<br />\\"A book bristling with adventure,  noise, passion and colour which recreates Baroque Italy in all its  diversity, from the ballrooms to the torture chambers, from trials to  marriages, from drinking parties to underground conspiracies\\" - Les  Echos.<br />\\"Alexandra Lapierre has succeeded in enabling a non-specialist of  the seventeenth century (99.9% of the population) to experience an artist's  struggle through great literature.\\" - Elle.lar I found the account of the rape case very interesting. This is  an intriguing and very enjoyable book and I hope that the idea of some of  the narrative being fiction will not put other readers off. In fact the 80  pages of notes used by the author to support her account makes fascinating  reading in themselves. The book is over 500 pages and I found it a very  easy to read account and it has provoked in me a desire to learn more about  this great female artist. This book is well worth the effort to sit down  and read and I hope that many other readers out there enjoy this book as  much as I did.<br />Just for the interest other readers, in Australia the book  is titled `Artemisia: The Story of a Battle for Greatness'. Following are  some reviews taken from the back cover:<br />\\"A book bristling with adventure,  noise, passion and colour which recreates Baroque Italy in all its  diversity, from the ballrooms to the torture chambers, from trials to  marriages, from drinking parties to underground conspiracies\\" - Les  Echos.<br />\\"Alexandra Lapierre has succeeded in enabling a non-specialist of  the seventeenth century (99.9% of the population) to experience an artist's  struggle through great literature.\\" - Elle.	2000-08-20
US	53066131	R2AE666Z3NX2Y7	0805031847	291556436	The Final Act: The Roads to Waterloo	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Well Presented Account of the Congress of Vienna	This book is a narrative history of the events leading up to and  surrounding the Congress of Vienna conducted between 1814 and 1815. It  takes the reader through the major cities of Europe and looks at the major  characters involved in this defining moment in Europe's history. We see and  hear from people such as Wellington and Napoleon, Tsar Alexander,  Talleyrand, Castlereagh, Metternich and their Sovereigns.<br />We also get a  good glimpse of those people who played a part behind the scene along with  some of the females involved in their own little political maneuvers. The  author, Gregor Dallas, provides the reader with a deep insight into Europe  during this period and what was at stake for each of the countries  involved. The research conducted by the author appears to have been quite  extensive and a number of maps, appendixes and notes are provided within  the 544 pages of the book.<br />However, and this is my personal opinion, I  found the book at times to drag. I really wanted to read this book, it  sounded like an excellent story but I did not get as much enjoyment as I  expected or as the other reviews obviously obtained. That is not to say  that this isn't a well constructed story just that I found it a bit slow at  times. Certainly this is the book to read if you want the full story of the  intrigues and diplomatic maneuvers behind the Congress of Vienna.	2000-08-12
US	53066131	R38D0MKMJRUW6	0375708278	27895627	Isaac's Storm: A Man, a Time, and the Deadliest Hurricane in History	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Stirring Account Of A Terrible Disaster	What a great story! This book just raced along full of facts and  interesting detail about \\"a man, a time, and the deadliest hurricane in  history.\\" I must admit that when this book was first released in Australia  I wasn't overly interested. It didn't sound like something that would  interest me in the slightest.<br />How wrong can you be, after picking the  book up for the third or fourth time and actually taking the time to see  what the story was about I had to read it. The author, Erik Larson,  presents a gripping and terrible account of the events leading up to the  destruction on Galveston on the 8th of September 1900 by one of the  deadliest hurricanes in America's history. Along the way the Larson  provides details of man's efforts to predict and control the weather and  the often-disastrous results when we got it wrong!<br />The personal accounts  offered in this book are often very touching and the human drama really  gets you involved in the story. The narrative moves along like an action  paced novel and you find yourself up in the early hours of the morning  glued to the pages. I really didn't want this story to finish, it was a  great account and the only fault I could find was a lack of photographs. On  a number of occasions Larson refers to old black and white photographs that  he had seen during his research for this book, it would have been nice to  share these with his audience. Overall this is a great book and well worth  the time to read.	2000-08-12
US	53066131	R21U86HQ9EYY3K	0887405266	612011059	Tiger Ace: The Life Story of Panzer Commander Michael Wittmann	Books	1	14	15	N	N	Doesn't deserve even a single star!	The best thing that can be said about this book is the reviews it has generated below. Take the time to read them and not the book. I was bitterly disappointed when I started to read this book. After paying a  packet for it I couldn't just throw it away, I read it all the way through.  I agree with every aspect of the previous reviews. How this got past the  editor is truly amazing! How could a publishing company like Schiffer  publish this trash is another question. If you want to learn more about  this fascinating tank ace I would advice you to try and locate a copy of  'Michael Wittmann and the Tiger Commanders of the Leibstandarte' by Patrick  Agte, published in 1996 by Fedorowicz.	2000-07-28
US	53066131	R3N37FARCSRTXV	0802713610	905195727	The Boxer Rebellion: The Dramatic Story of China's War on Foreigners That Shook the World in the Summer of 1900.	Books	4	26	31	N	N	Enjoyable History	I would have to agree to some of the previous comments made about some this book. It is definitively a well-written account of the Boxer Rebellion but as seen through the eyes of the Western participants only. You will not  find many Chinese accounts of the siege and fighting undertaken by the  Boxers in this story.<br />Having said that I still found this book a delight  to read once it got into the actual siege and relief operations. I found  the first few chapters a bit slow but after that the narrative just flowed  along with some great stories and accounts from the people who experienced  this upheaval.<br />The story was well written and presented and it was easy  to stay up into the early morning reading the book. The author supplied a  number of maps to assist the reader in following the action and movements  of the forces involved. She also supplied a great number of (small) black  &amp; white photographs taken at the time.<br />Some of the stories were  excellent and I found some of the personal accounts truly amazing and very  interesting. This is a book that may not suit the historian looking for a  detailed account of the fighting but I am sure that most people who enjoy  history will find this book a treat.<br />The story of Bishop Auguste Favier  and his flock of Christians holding out at Peitang with a small detachment  of Italian and French soldiers was great. The stories of what happened to a  number of Missionaries and their families in the countryside were told in  context to the situation as a whole.<br />Even though the book presents  mainly the Western version of events I found that the author present her  story in a fair and impartial manner.  What happened to the Chinese  Christians was not forgotten in the story but the book does concentrate on  the Westerners. The chapter dealing with what happened after the siege was  lifted was very illuminating and some facets of the interaction between the  different foreign powers were very absorbing. I enjoyed a number of the  quotes provided by the author and one that I found amusing was:<br />\\"I sent  my servant (Chinese) on a message. He was robbed by a Russian, buggered by  a Frenchman, killed by a German. In my dismay, I made complaint to a  British officer. He looked at me, put his eye-glass into his eye, and said,  `Was he really? What a bore! '\\".<br />This is a good yarn, an enjoyable  history and a decent story, well worth the effort to sit down and read.g. I enjoyed a number of the  quotes provided by the author and one that I found amusing was:<br />\\"I sent  my servant (Chinese) on a message. He was robbed by a Russian, buggered by  a Frenchman, killed by a German. In my dismay, I made complaint to a  British officer. He looked at me, put his eye-glass into his eye, and said,  `Was he really? What a bore! '\\". <br />This is a good yarn, an enjoyable  history and a decent story, well worth the effort to sit down and read.	2000-07-28
US	53066131	R2ZWFSO86F354L	0300077734	87644620	The Parisian Worlds of Frederic Chopin	Books	5	18	20	N	N	An Excellent Book!	What pleasure it is to be able to sit down and write a review of a truly enjoyable book such as this one. As I sit here typing I am listening to some music from one of the greatest composers of the 19th Century, Frederic  Chopin. Fitting no less, as this book provides the reader with a guide  through the City of Paris as seen and experienced by Chopin during his time  there.<br /> The author, William Atwood, has written two previous books on  Chopin and in this third book he shows that he has a deep understanding for  Chopin and his time. Covering the period from 1831 to 1849 Atwood covers  all manner of subjects in his discussion of Paris, that beautiful city that  seemed to produce some of the greatest artists in Europe. The author  provides you with an insight into the social and artistic scene as well as  some of the more interesting people, places and activities of Paris.<br />  The book covers not only music and musicians but poets, writers, painters,  the opera and theatre, medicine, bohemians, people of the street and how  they all lived and survived during this turbulent period. The story just  flows along smoothly and some of the stories are just amazing.<br />For  instance when Paris decided to solve the sewage problem that tended to blot  the city streets they changed the roadways contours from concave to convex  allowing the swill and sewage to run off the roads into the new drainage  system. The only problem with this was that not all the drains were  properly covered and children often fell through the drains into the  underground sewer system!<br /> Another interesting little story in the  chapter on medicine informs the reader that during the craze for bleeding  as a form of combating illness that swept Paris during the early 1830's it  was estimated that by 1833 Paris was importing 41.5 million leeches a  year!<br /> One of my favourite stories was the tragic tale of Alphonsine  Plessis, the lady of the camellias, which can be found in the chapter  regarding bohemians and demimondes (I don't want to spoil the story for  anyone so you will have to buy the book and read it for yourself).  According the Atwood the people of Paris still leave offerings of flowers  on her tomb at the cemetery at Montmarte.<br /> For anyone who loves good  history, the arts or just a well-written book I am sure they will enjoy  this story. In the pages you will find some of the greatest names in the  world of the arts, Frederic Chopin, Eugene Delacroix, George Sand, Honore  de Balzac, Hector Berlioz, Alexandre Dumas, Victor Hugo, Franz Liszt, and  many many more. The book also provides numerous black and white  illustrations showing Paris, its people and its buildings, during this  time. This is a great story, an enjoyable read and an interesting piece of  history.regarding bohemians and demimondes (I don't want to spoil the story for  anyone so you will have to buy the book and read it for yourself).  According the Atwood the people of Paris still leave offerings of flowers  on her tomb at the cemetery at Montmarte.<br /> For anyone who loves good  history, the arts or just a well-written book I am sure they will enjoy  this story. In the pages you will find some of the greatest names in the  world of the arts, Frederic Chopin, Eugene Delacroix, George Sand, Honore  de Balzac, Hector Berlioz, Alexandre Dumas, Victor Hugo, Franz Liszt, and  many many more. The book also provides numerous black and white  illustrations showing Paris, its people and its buildings, during this  time. This is a great story, an enjoyable read and an interesting piece of  history.	2000-07-23
US	53066131	R3TCGN6L7ULR0Q	0684869306	571309436	FINEST HOUR : The Battle of Britain	Books	4	23	23	N	N	Eye Opening Account of the Battle of Britain	Having read many other accounts of the Battle of Britain I was unsure if this book would be able to offer anything new to the current literature. Well I was wrong, this story, presented by many of the participants,  civilians, sailors, soldiers and airmen, was excellent. The authors let the  people who experienced this terrible and also great time in their history  tell the story.<br />The book starts in France at the commencement of the  German invasion and follows a number of the characters through the fall of  France, the start of the aerial fighting over England to the end of the  Battle of Britain. The story is told from the English side with no accounts  from any of the German participants but the title does say `Finest Hour',  which should give you an idea, what the book is about anyhow.<br />I found two  of the stories quite sad, one involving the German bombing of a school in  London that resulted in numerous civilian casualties and how the  authorities solved the dilemma of identify and processing the bodies.  Another story detailed the sinking of the British liner `City of Benares'  which was carrying over 90 children being sent to Canada so as to be safe  from the nighttime Blitz against London.<br />I also found the story of the  machinations between Churchill and Roosevelt over American aid to Britain  during this period very interesting as was the account of the destruction  of the French Fleet and their small victory later on against the British  Fleet at Dakar.<br />Overall this is an interesting account of this pivotal  period in England's history during World War Two. I am sure that many  readers will find the human stories interesting and I doubt that any  student of World War Two will not find something new and interesting in  this account.	2000-07-21
US	53066131	R21WL4BYNWD4M3	080613156X	723710194	To Hell With Honor: Custer and the Little Bighorn	Books	4	6	11	N	N	Dry Read but Excellent Research	I have not read many books of this subject but I have always had a fascination for Custer and his demise at the Little Bighorn. Overall I found that this book attempted to answer all the questions of what went  wrong and who was at fault. I think the author did an admirable job in his  attempts to reconstruct the events leading up the final battle and the end  of Custer and those troops of the 7th Cavalry who followed him.<br />I would  agree that this would not have been an easy task. A lot of conjecture and  guess work had to be used to complete the puzzle and although the depth of  research certainly shows it still may be a case that we will really never  know what when wrong and why. The main problem that I had with this book  was it was a bit dry and tended to drag. The narrative picked up the closer  we got to the final battle but reading about the events leading up to that  point was slow.<br />I gave the book 4 stars as I think the author put  forward a decent scenario of what he believed happen and why. The research  was excellent but I would have liked a few more maps although the few  supplied were OK. If he could have livened up the story a bit more it would  have been a 5 star book. I would recommend this book to those who have a  desire to learn more about this most interesting event in American history.	2000-06-29
US	53066131	R3RWMW0XZAUPZX	0807125350	742161616	To the North Anna River: Grant and Lee, May 13--25, 1864	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A Great Addition to Civil War Literature	Once again Gordon Rhea has produced another fabulous and insightful account to follow on from his books on Spotsylvania Court House and Yellow Tavern. This is a well-presented and detailed account of the maneuvers and fighting between Lee and Grant during May 13th-25th, 1864. As one previous reviewer noted this is not a period of high drama involving great battles and massive charges but you would not notice that while reading this book.<br />The narrative moved along at a quick pace and you eagerly follow the story to see what is going to happen next and by whom. The maps supplied, 29 in all, were well presented and easy to read. The story followed each General's movements in attempting to outfox each other, from the 'Mule Shoe' to the North Anna River with a number of engagements in between.<br />I think the author offered some very interesting points in regards to each General's command decisions and why things happened or did not happen as intended. Overall this is a very enjoyable account of this forgotten period of Civil War history and I am keenly looking forward to Rhea's next book, which I hope will cover the fighting around Cold Harbor.	2000-06-17
US	53066131	R2Y0A5RISGQCAJ	0684824582	633207871	Chopin in Paris: The Life and Times of the Romantic Composer	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Lovely Account of Great Composer	Prior to reading this book I had no knowledge of this great composer or his music. If it were not for the previous good reviews of this book I would not have bothered buying a copy. I am so glad that I did, I just fell  in love with this story, it was a captivating account! During the time I  read this book I purchased about five CD's of Chopin's music. This is more  a book of the man and his time in Paris than an in-depth account of his  music, his style and his compositions. Regardless of that, you still come  away after reading the book with a deeper understanding of Chopin's music  and a great feeling towards the sound of his Nocturnes, Polonaises and  Etudes. The author also provides a fascinating look at the society that  surrounded Chopin while in Paris, so many great names come alive during  this story that you come away amazed with the amount of talent that was  moving in the same society and producing great books, music, art and  events. This is a great story, the narrative moved you along with Chopin,  during his periods of depression and illness to his highs and accounts of  his compositions. My favourite is the story of Prelude No. 15 in D flat  major, Opus 28, No.15 \\"Raindrop\\". I really don't think that anyone who has  a love for music or Chopin would be disappointed in this book.	2000-06-12
US	53066131	RDA8PW4PMNVWG	0871138042	255087586	Barrow's Boys	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Adventure Beyond your Dreams	This is a fascinating and enjoyable account of a number of brave men, sent to the furthermost points of the world to fill in the blank spots on the British Navy's globe. John Barrow, Second Secretary to the Admiralty sent a  number of expeditions to find the source of the Niger River, to locate and  traverse the North-West Passage, to locate Magnetic North, to find out what  was actually at the Antarctic.<br />There are some great adventure stories  here, of brave men, blundering fools and gentle heroes. Travel the Sahara  on a camel or with a slave convoy, drag boats and sleds across ice flows in  the Arctic whilst on half rations or travel across the Canadian wilderness  whilst near death from starvation. Experience the affects of scurvy and  hunger whilst trapped in a wooden ship with massive icebergs slowly  crushing the frame.<br />Read about the majestic sights seen by these  intrepid travelers, pink ice, the aurora borealis and the aurora australis,  Eskimo's and polar bears. Read about the tragic end to a number of these  expeditions and the fate of many of the ship's crews, most notably John  Franklin's 1845 expedition in the 'Erebus' and 'Terror' to find the  North-West Passage.<br />This is a great book, the narrative flows along like  a well-written novel. At times I found it hard to put the book down,  reading late into the morning trying to finish a chapter. I must admit that  I have no previous expertise in this field other than having read &quot;Ice  Blink&quot; but I found the story well presented and believe that the  author has done his research. This is an easy and enjoyable book to read  and I think anyone who loves a good adventure story will certainly enjoy  this account.	2000-05-28
US	53066131	R2LUYA89Q4WDQE	0233969667	230341259	Cochrane	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Fascinating Account of 'Britannia's Sea Wolf'	This book was first released in 1978 but has now been re-released in hardback by Cassell under the title `Cochrane, Britannia's Sea Wolf'. After reading this book I am amazed that it has taken nearly twenty years to be  re-released. What a great story Mr. Thomas tells of Thomas, Lord Cochrane,  later the 10th Earl of Dundonald. From his birth through to his death  covering all his exploits in numerous sea battles and actions, so many in  fact that you find it hard to believe that he survived.<br />The book covers  Cochrane's battles during the Napoleonic Wars during which, on many  occasions, he sent his ship in action against overwhelming odds. It was  during this period that he was recognized, as one of Britain's most daring  and successful captains. It was also during this period that he made many  enemies, although he pressed hard in every action and took many risks, he  always considered the well being of the men under his command. This later  led to his single-handed campaign against corruption in the Admiralty.<br />Following the end of the Napoleonic Wars in 1815 Cochrane commenced an  extraordinary career as a mercenary admiral. He subsequently commanded the  navies of Chile and Brazil and launched campaigns against their  protagonists, Spain and Portugal. After finishing his `little wars' in  South America he took command of elements of the Greek navy in their war  against the Turks. In all these campaigns Cochrane again showed that he was  one of the best naval commanders of his time.<br />The narrative flowed along  smoothly and although I have no great knowledge of maritime history I had  no problems in following this story. In over 350 pages of text along with a  number of black &amp; white plates and a few maps Mr. Thomas tells a  wonderful and exciting story. This is the type of book, which I am sure any  person who has a love for history or who enjoys the novels of C. S.  Forester and Patrick O'Brien will just love. A must for any serious student  of naval tactics or Napoleonic warfare.t  of naval tactics or Napoleonic warfare.	2000-05-25
US	53066131	R11VGV9IHWXATU	0700610162	416168373	In Deadly Combat: A German Soldier's Memoir of the Eastern Front (Modern War Studies)	Books	5	260	268	N	N	Engrossing Account of Combat on the Eastern Front	Firstly, before launching yourself into this excellent book please take the time to read the introduction by Dennis Showalter as it will help explain the style of writing to be found in this book. The book was  originally written for the survivors of Bidermann's regiment and division,  not for the general public. Bearing this in mind you will have a better  understanding and feeling for the author's account of his experience of  fighting on the Eastern Front during WW2. At times you might find the  narrative old fashioned and even cliched but this is definitely not the  case, it has to be taken in context of when and why this book was first  written.<br />This is a great story, on par if not better than Guy Sajer's  `Forgotten Soldier'. This is a combination of a combat history of the 132nd  Infantry Division and the author's role and experiences in the fighting on  the Eastern Front. The author, Gottlob Herbert Bidermann, won two Iron  Crosses, the Crimea Shield, the Close Combat Badge, the German Cross in  Gold, the Gold Wound Badge (wounded five times), the Honour Roll Clasp and  the Tank Destruction Badge. What is remarkable is that the author survived  five years of combat on the Russian Front fighting in Crimea, Leningrad and  later in the Courland Pocket. I found his stories about his early years  fighting with an anti-tank section using the Pak 37 \\"doorknocker\\" very  interesting, I had always believed these weapons to be next to useless on  the Russian Front however I was surprised.<br />You can trace the change in  the author from a novice who still cared about human beings, even his enemy  to one whom has been brutalised by warfare to a point past indifference to  death and destruction. I have taken the liberty to include below a short  section of the text from the first chapter to give you an idea of the  author's style of writing:<br />\\"The NCO was grasping one of the wheels of the  Maxim carriage, his sightless eyes peering forward at the ammunition belt  where it fed into the chamber of the weapon. Another held his rifle  clenched in cold fists, his head resting against the ground as if asleep,  the olive-colored helmet secured tightly under his chin.<br />Hartmann  slipped past me and slowly approached two other figures lying closely  together, side by side. One of the figures had draped an arm across the  other in a last embrace, as if attempting to comfort a dying comrade. As  Hartmann neared, a cloud of flies rose in protest, breaking the deadly  silence and I moved forward to join him in surveying the ghastly scene.<br />Moving silently among the carnage, Hartmann suddenly turned and slipped  past me without speaking, heading in the direction from which we had come.  Carefully avoiding the eyes of the dead, I quickly followed him.<br />In this  abode of death, only the trees, still and quiet, appeared to be survivors  and witnesses to the struggle that had occurred, hidden within this wooded  glade\\".<br />I found this book to be a very fascinating account of the  fighting conducted on the Eastern Front from the perspective of a young  German soldier. It offers some very interesting insights into combat and  its affect on men who in the end just tried to survive against immense  odds. There is a number of absorbing black and white photographs supplied  from private sources that give the book a human touch. The only real  problem that readers may find with this book is the lack of maps detailing  the movements and combats of the 132nd Infantry Division. Overall this is  the sort of book that should be in the library of every serious reader or  student of the war on the Russian Front during World War Two.elt  where it fed into the chamber of the weapon. Another held his rifle  clenched in cold fists, his head resting against the ground as if asleep,  the olive-colored helmet secured tightly under his chin. <br />Hartmann  slipped past me and slowly approached two other figures lying closely  together, side by side. One of the figures had draped an arm across the  other in a last embrace, as if attempting to comfort a dying comrade. As  Hartmann neared, a cloud of flies rose in protest, breaking the deadly  silence and I moved forward to join him in surveying the ghastly scene.  <br />Moving silently among the carnage, Hartmann suddenly turned and slipped  past me without speaking, heading in the direction from which we had come.  Carefully avoiding the eyes of the dead, I quickly followed him. <br />In this  abode of death, only the trees, still and quiet, appeared to be survivors  and witnesses to the struggle that had occurred, hidden within this wooded  glade\\".<br />I found this book to be a very fascinating account of the  fighting conducted on the Eastern Front from the perspective of a young  German soldier. It offers some very interesting insights into combat and  its affect on men who in the end just tried to survive against immense  odds. There is a number of absorbing black and white photographs supplied  from private sources that give the book a human touch. The only real  problem that readers may find with this book is the lack of maps detailing  the movements and combats of the 132nd Infantry Division. Overall this is  the sort of book that should be in the library of every serious reader or  student of the war on the Russian Front during World War Two.	2000-05-16
US	53066131	RU24UTJD30Y11	2908182815	966600234	TIGER I: On the Eastern Front	Books	4	16	16	N	N	A Truly Formidable Weapon of War	Not much can really be said about this publication other than that it is a must have book for anyone who has an interest in the German Tiger Tank. To me this was the 'tank' of WW2, a truly formidable weapon. This is mainly a  photo history of the Tiger I on the Russian Front with limited text. The  photographs were excellent and numerous, many never seen before. The book  offered some great shots of the Tiger I in action. Jean Restayn has also  supplied a number of colour drawings showing the markings and camouflage  patterns for each German unit that crewed Tigers in Russia. The overall  presentation from Histoire &amp; Collections make this a very nice title  for any serious WW2 buff. Not as detailed as some of the current books  published by J.J. Fedorowicz but a whole lot cheaper! This is the type of  book that you can just pick up and browse through and admire this massive  tank in action. One of the photographs shows a Tiger with an awesome amount  of hits against its armour and its still operational (I won't tell you how  many as that will spoil it). It really makes you appreciate why it was such  a feared weapon by the Allies.	2000-05-12
US	53066131	RY7YUJ21P7OX2	0471377902	746286426	Ice Blink: The Tragic Fate of Sir John Franklin's Lost Polar Expedition	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Interesting and Compelling Story	This is the story of a fateful 1845 polar expedition that went terribly wrong. This was a British enterprise led by Captain Sir John Franklin to find the Northwest Passage using the most advance ships and equipment at  that time. Now I am a complete novice when it comes to this subject matter  however I found this book very interesting and it offered a compelling  story of misadventure, bravery, corruption, and suspense.<br />I found that  the author, Scott Cookman, presented his story in such an easy manner that  the narrative just raced along and I lost track of time reading about this  terrible drama. It must be stated from the beginning that the author has no  direct testimony of what actually happen to this expedition since all  involved died.<br />However Cookman has utilised the accounts of many other  polar explorers to support his theory of what may have happened and to give  graphic examples of the conditions these men laboured under during this  expedition. Overall I found it a gripping account and although he may not  be 100% correct in his deductions I found that it was quite believable.<br />Cookman has used a wide range of sources including material from the  Public Records Office and the Admiralty in London. He takes the time to  fully explain the means and methods used at the time for polar exploration  and I fully enjoyed his account of the men and ships involved. This is a  great story and the book has prompted me to learn more about the brave men  who charted the Arctic and Antarctic regions before modern technology made  all too easy.	2000-05-11
US	53066131	R1S0XMO40T914E	185367396X	706983122	The Iron Marshal: A Biography of Louis N. Davout (Napoleonic Library)	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Excellent Military Biography	This book is the long awaited reprint of John Gallaher's 1976 classic account of one of Napoleon's greatest Marshals, Louis Davout, 'The Iron Marshal'. According to David Chandler, Davout was &quot;one of the least  liked as a man, the ablest as a commander, and the most feared - and  respected - as an adversary. He was also, from 1798, one of the loyalist of  Napoleon's key subordinates.&quot;<br />This is an excellent biography of a  Napoleonic commander. The book covers Davout's military career from when he  entered the Ecole royale militaire in 1779, through the Revolution, the  Napoleonic Wars and finally his death in 1823. The narrative flowed along  faultlessly although I would have liked more detail in regards to Davout's  battles. However the author has covered these battles well enough and  provided eight maps to assist the reader in following the action. Davout  fought in numerous campaigns from Egypt to Russia and was successful  always, his most famous battle being at Auerstadt.<br />Mr Gallaher has also  supplied the reader with some insight into Davout the man with details of  his relationship with his devoted wife and the tragedies of his children.  You leave this book with a feeling that Davout was a man who did his all  for duty (France and the Emperor) but never forgot his family. I loved  reading this book and I felt it was not long enough (420 pages). I fretted  about finishing, I wanted more, I did not want to put the book down nor  finish it!<br />I would recommend this book to anyone who loves reading about  the napoleonic period or anybody who enjoys a decent military biography.  This is a great book about a great commander.	2000-05-04
US	53066131	R2Q7KP3U8TFXC9	0283063076	158485517	The Imperial War Museum Book of 1918: Year of Victory	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Great Account of the Final Year of the Great war	This latest book by Malcolm Brown covers the final year of the Great War in a similar style to Lyn MacDonald's great books on World War One. Once again the author uses first-hand accounts of the participants of this  dreadful conflict to reveal to the reader the horror of this conflict as  seen through the eyes and experiences of the soldiers. With access to the  Imperial War Museums archives he utilises the reports, letters, diaries and  interviews of the soldiers and civilians on both sides who fought during  1918. I am a prolific reader of history books and I tend to forget  sometimes that besides history I am also reading about people. This book is  one of those rare books where you fully realise that this is not only  history but also flesh and blood. The accounts of some the people in this  book are truly sad, they hit home and make you realise that these were real  people, individuals caught up in a war of massive scale and destruction.<br />I would like to present just a few accounts take from this magnificent  book to demonstrate why I found this book such a great story of men and  war.<br />This first account is by a 20-year-old Second Lieutenant during an  assault on some German positions; \\"We passed on and quickly reached the  objective, a line of trenches along the crest of slightly elevated ground.  I jumped down into the German trench followed by a NCO and about eight men.  The trench was deserted except for some bodies of dead Germans. Later, I  noticed the sad manner of the death of one of these. Evidently a piece of  shell had carried away the whole calf of his leg, baring it to the bone. He  had dragged half of his body into a `cubby-hole' at the bottom of the  trench side, there to die quietly, in the dark, his face hidden from the  world. He was respected and grieved for, in death, by at least one enemy  soldier.\\" This was after this officer had seen a number of his friends cut  down by German defensive fire and having a team of three men operating a  Lewis gun in a shell hole with him killed. He picked up the gun and wiped  the butt clean of blood and brain and passed it onto other soldiers to  continue their advance (Page 211-215).<br />Another account is from Major F.J.  Rice, 82nd Brigade, RFA. His account is about the death of a twenty-four  year old Bombardier. He later received a package from the dead soldiers  parents which he subsequently forwarded to his own mother with this  covering letter; \\"Will you please put the enclosed away for me somewhere  safe? I have always got nice letters back from parents whose sons have been  killed in my battery but these seemed exceptionally grateful for my letter  and sent me a photo of Bombardier Stone and a sort of memorial ribbon. He  was badly wounded during the barrage we fired on Sept. 18th when we were  shelled from 5-15 to 6-45 a.m. and we had to go on firing our guns all the  time. We had ten casualties during that time (six killed). It was the worst  hour and a half I have ever had.\\" (Pages 271-272). The ribbon had a poem,  which went on to say:<br />`How little we thought when we said good-bye, We  were parted for ever, and he was to die; Oh, the grief that we feel words  can never tell' For we could not be with him to bid him farewell; But  Christ will clasp the broken chain Closer when we meet again.'<br />Sadly the  book is full of these sort of stories, the last letters of many men  condemned to die on the Western Front but brought back to life by this  author to allow us to feel the horror and exhilaration of this final year  of the Great War. Many books have covered the German Offensive starting on  March 21st 1918, the so-called `Kaiser's Battle'. However this book goes  past that point and carries the story to the Allied Counter-Offensive and  final victory. The books main focus is on the Western Front but he does not  neglect the Home Front nor those areas designated as `Side Shows'.<br />Overall this is a great story, at first I found it a bit slow to start  but after awhile I could not put the book down. I was proud to read about  the accomplishments of my own countrymen and I came to fully appreciate the  efforts of the British Army, the Canadians, and the Americans. This is an  excellent book, written without bias, well researched and well presented. A  number of black &amp; white photos are presented to assist the narrative  but no maps which I didn't find to be too much of a hindrance. If you enjoy  Lyn MacDonald's accounts of World War One you will appreciate this book. It  sits along side this authors earlier book on the Somme and all of Lyn  MacDonalds books as well.a bit slow to start  but after awhile I could not put the book down. I was proud to read about  the accomplishments of my own countrymen and I came to fully appreciate the  efforts of the British Army, the Canadians, and the Americans. This is an  excellent book, written without bias, well researched and well presented. A  number of black &amp; white photos are presented to assist the narrative  but no maps which I didn't find to be too much of a hindrance. If you enjoy  Lyn MacDonald's accounts of World War One you will appreciate this book. It  sits along side this authors earlier book on the Somme and all of Lyn  MacDonalds books as well.	2000-04-23
US	53066131	RD0WZGJWG8LIJ	0670885517	700763528	The Battle of New Orleans: Andrew Jackson and America's First Military Victory	Books	4	16	21	N	Y	Stirring Account Of A Great Battle	I tend to agree with all the previous reviews of this book, both the good and the bad. That may sound a bit strange, as this is a well told historical account of the Battle for New Orleans. The book's narrative is  fast and snappy, the story is well told and presented in a way that it  reads like a novel. The author, Robert V. Remini certainly loves this  period of history and has a deep respect for Andrew Jackson, which shows  throughout the book, maybe too much so. One of the previous reviewers  mentioned the fact that the story was a bit too much like \\"good versus  evil\\".<br />I found on occasions that the American forces could do no wrong  while the British were blunderers. For example, the chapter `The Night  Attack' shows Jackson throwing his troops, inferior in numbers and without  full knowledge of the British forces in a spoiling attack against the  advance guard of the British forces. Certainly the spoiling attack is a  sound military move and paid good dividends in this instance. Jackson is  shown as a daring commander however when the British forces do something  very similar against the American positions they are made to sound like  bumbling fools. Why is one commander a daring master and the other an  idiot?<br />On a similar note, when Jackson showed caution on a number of  occasions throughout this battle he was commended but when the British  leadership showed this same caution they were castigated. I agree with the  author that the British leadership was ineffectual at times but that is  making a judgement in hindsight. The author made mention of Jackson's  burning hatred of the British and their contempt for the American forces,  maybe a little of this has rubbed off on the author?<br />Don't get me wrong,  I enjoyed this book, it's a great story and my own country's history has no  love of the British but I don't like it to show so one sided in any book I  read. Beside that, the maps supplied (3) were of a high quality and a  pleasant change but once again even the maps seemed to be one sided. The  map showing the positions of the opposing forces for the attack on January  8, 1815 (page 135) show in great detail the American positions with the  units indicated but nothing as detailed for the attacking British forces.<br />Having said all that, it was pleasing to note that the author paid  tribute to the brave soldiers on both sides of this terrible battle.  Overall this is an excellent story, told with verve and passion and it's a  great book to read. I hope that the remarks above do not offend anyone,  they are not made with that intention. I would recommend this book to  anyone who enjoys history and would like to learn about this turning point  in America's history.ut once again even the maps seemed to be one sided. The  map showing the positions of the opposing forces for the attack on January  8, 1815 (page 135) show in great detail the American positions with the  units indicated but nothing as detailed for the attacking British forces.  <br />Having said all that, it was pleasing to note that the author paid  tribute to the brave soldiers on both sides of this terrible battle.  Overall this is an excellent story, told with verve and passion and it's a  great book to read. I hope that the remarks above do not offend anyone,  they are not made with that intention. I would recommend this book to  anyone who enjoys history and would like to learn about this turning point  in America's history.	2000-04-16
US	53066131	R1GKMFV9BHMCLI	0330352202	226679362	The Imperial War Museum Book of the Somme	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Excellent  Account of the Somme	I recently purchased this author's latest book: `The Imperial War Museum Book of 1918: Year of Victory' and was prompted to do so because I enjoyed his book on the Somme. I first read this book when it was released in  hardback some years ago and I am somewhat surprised that it has not  received any reviews of yet.<br />I have a passionate interest in books  covering the Western Front during the Great War. I found this book to be a  well researched and presented account of this terrible battle. Having read  quite a few books on this battle I have no hesitation it placing it along  side such great books as Lyn MacDonald's `Somme' and Martin Middlebrook's  `The First Day on the Somme'.<br />Malcolm Brown has utilised numerous first  hand accounts from diaries, reports, newspapers and interviews and uses  these in a manner that brings life to this terrible battle. Somewhat  similar in style to Lyn MacDonald and just as good, I thoroughly enjoyed  reading this book. The author tells the battle through the experiences of  the ordinary (I should say extraordinary) soldier; British, Australian,  Canadian, German and the many others who fought during this terrible  carnage.<br />The narrative flows along smoothly and the personal accounts of  the soldiers seem to blend in effortlessly. Malcolm Brown has used the  resources of the Imperial War Museum to present a detailed and accurate  story of the Somme which I am sure that most people would enjoy and find  rewarding. If you can no longer find a copy of Lyn MacDonald's `Somme' or  Martin Middlebrook's `The First Day on the Somme' grab this book instead,  you won't be disappointed!<br />Of interest to other readers this book was  recently hailed as &quot;a valuable addition to First World War  literature&quot;.	2000-04-16
US	53066131	R37RCMLLO4EXBJ	0471303712	204236473	The World in 1800	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Interesting Account of the World in 1800	Overall this was an interesting view of the world and events in 1800. The author takes the reader across Europe, between the warring nations of France, England, Austria, Prussia and Russia, and then onto the America's.  He continues the journey into China, Japan, India, the Ottoman Empire and  finishes in Africa. The author, Olivier Bernier introduces us to the  leaders, people, customs, art, cities and life of the inhabitants of these  countries. Although the book is about 450 pages, in reality he can only  offer us an interesting overview of these people and places. In no manner  is this an in-depth account but it is an enjoyable story none the less. The  main theme of the book, I think, is to show how the world was becoming  smaller, that the countries were in fact linked in one manner or another.  That event's in Revolutionary France could have an impact on the  inhabitants and events in furthermost Africa. It was interesting to read of  Napoleon and his campaigns (in brief) and find out that at the same time  what was happening in the United States, or in Peru, Brazil or China. I  would have liked a few more pictures and maps and at times I did find that  the narrative bogged down but overall this was a very enjoyable piece of  historical writing. I think that anybody that enjoys a decent history book  without too many facts and figures should enjoy this book.	2000-04-14
US	53066131	R3PWPLYP4FFIKE	188281021X	997698966	By The Blood Of Our Alumni: Norwich University Citizen Soldiers In The Army Of The Potomac, 1861-1865	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Gripping Civil war Account	Norwich University is the Military College of Vermont and as this book shows they produced some excellent soldiers who served with distinction in all ranks of the Federal Army. One graduate led a corps, seven led  divisions, twenty-one commanded brigades and thirty-eight led regiments  which is an outstanding number considering the size of the college student  roll.<br />As the title suggests the book concentrates on the Army of the  Potomac and follows the careers of Norwich alumni through the campaigns and  battles fought by the Army of the Potomac, from First Bull Run and Ball's  Bluff through to the final battles of 1865. The author offers a decent  overview of the war but his emphasis is on the men of Norwich, where they  served and how they served. This story is woven into the fabric of the  narrative quite well and shows the depth of research conducted by the  author, Robert G. Poirier.<br />Mr Poirer is a 1966 graduate of Norwich  University and a veteran of the Vietnam War. His pride in his old Alumni  shows in his presentation of this book. Throughout the narrative the  stories and recollections of these men offer an interesting insight into  the war as fought by the Army of the Potomac. On a number of occasions we  are presented with outstanding accounts of bravery by these men, some that  were later awarded the highest award for bravery. The story of Thomas  Seaver's Medal of Honor is one such account. Another is the story of  Sergeant Thomas Plunkett at Fredericksburg, who's arms were blown off by a  cannon shot but continued to hold his colours with his bleeding stumps  until they were taken by another member of the 21st Massachusetts  Infantry.<br />The book also offers some information on the careers of Norwich  alumni who served in the other theatres of the Civil War and in the Federal  Navy. Also covered are those who served under a different flag, the `Stars  &amp; Bars' of the Confederacy.<br />The book has some very detailed  appendixes with a complete alphabetical listing of alumni, on alumni by  Regiments, information on battles and other engagements and much  more.<br />This book would be an absolute must for anyone who had every  attended at Norwich University and still offers something to those who look  for a slightly different account of the American Civil War. This is a  finely told, well-presented and very well researched account of a little  known subject of the Civil War. The book offers a number of black and white  photos of the men who served along with a number of maps of the campaigns.complete alphabetical listing of alumni, on alumni by  Regiments, information on battles and other engagements and much  more.<br />This book would be an absolute must for anyone who had every  attended at Norwich University and still offers something to those who look  for a slightly different account of the American Civil War. This is a  finely told, well-presented and very well researched account of a little  known subject of the Civil War. The book offers a number of black and white  photos of the men who served along with a number of maps of the campaigns.	2000-04-08
US	53066131	R3OUFCUCWYSB7D	0439062802	832582320	Unicorns Of Balinor #01: Road To Balinor, The	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A book for all Unicorn Lovers	This was a very enjoyable book, I loved reading every page. I encourage other readers to get the whole series like me. My favourite character was 'Sun-Chaser' and 'Atlanta'. This was a great story and I can't wait to read the next volume, I recommend this book for all horse and unicorn  lovers.<br />By Annelise	2000-04-02
US	53066131	R1RXKOR1QN5UYU	081332985X	226826039	Fire in the Sky : The Air War in the South Pacific	Books	5	14	15	N	N	An Excellent Book	Once again Eric Bergerud has produced an outstanding book, this one covering the air war in the Pacific. This is a great companion volume to his last book covering the land campaign, `Touched with Fire: The Land War  in the South Pacific'. This new book offers the reader a great story about  air combat in the Pacific and the author's research and passion for the  subject shows. It is hard to find a decent one-volume account of this  period that covers all combatants, their weapons, tactics and strategy.<br />I enjoyed reading about the pilots and how they coped in one of the  toughest theatres of the Second World War and it was a pleasant change to  see that the Australian and New Zealand efforts were not forgotten or lost  in within the larger American commitment. I found some the of pilots  stories quite funny although I am not too sure what the Aussie pilot would  had thought about an Australian flag being painted on an American fuselage  after the Yank mistook a Australian Wirraway for a Jap aircraft and shot  him down!<br />This book provided a deeper understanding of what it was like  for those young men during the darker days of the war whilst fighting in  the Pacific. The story of their efforts and that of their enemies in the  Imperial Japanese Army and Imperial Japanese Navy has been presented in a  excellent and non-biased account. The narrative flowed along effortlessly  but on occasion I felt that the author had diverged off track slightly.  Regardless of that it was still an enjoyable book to read and I a now  eagerly awaiting his third book. This book and `Touched with Fire' should  be sitting in every serious library about WW2.<br />One point for both the  editor and author, A.I.F. stands for Australian Imperial Forces not  Australian Independent Force.	2000-03-30
US	53066131	R269YYGDYQ602G	0805063560	61699903	M: The Man Who Became Caravaggio	Books	5	13	18	N	N	For the Information of other readers	Sydney authors Peter Robb and Mandy Sayer are joint winners of the $12,500 National Biography Award for 2000. Robb won for 'M', his  historical biography of the European painter Caravaggio.  The National Biography Award is given  biennially and is administered and presented by the State Library of NSW on  behalf of its benefactor, Geoffrey Cains.	2000-03-26
US	53066131	R1PSYW5J612HS4	0850524695	345914331	The Charge: The Real Reason Why the Light Brigade Was Lost	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	In-depth Account of the Charge  of the Light Brigade	I don't think that I could really add much to the previous excellent reviews on this interesting account of the Charge of the Light Brigade. The author, Mark Adkin, has produced an excellent account of the Charge of the  Light Brigade, which occurred on the 25th of October 1854 during the siege  of Sebastopol. Utilising his in-depth research to provide answers to how,  why and who, the narrative takes you along with the cavalrymen on their  charge into the Russian gun positions. The book has a number of detailed  drawings, maps, and photographs to assist you on this reckless advance into  the mouth of the guns. The book is very readable and I think that the  author attempts to answer the question `who' was to blame quite fairly and  without malice. Overall a very good read for the student of military  history or for anyone who just enjoys a good story.<br />A tip for readers of  this book, a new release might be of interest: `CRIMEA: The Great Crimean  War 1854-1856' by Trevor Royle.	2000-03-19
US	53066131	R2ZMYY39AKEL2K	1853673110	965539763	War on the Eastern Front, 1941-1945: The German Soldier in Russia	Books	5	33	37	N	N	The Best Combat Account of War on the Eastern Front	Having read this book when it was first released in hardback I am happy to see it has been re-released in paperback. This is one of the best books I have read to date that covers warfare on the Eastern Front during the  Second World War. The chapters cover a broad spectrum of subjects, all of  which involved the German soldier in Russia. From the different style of  warfare and fighting to the horrific and barbaric conditions encountered by  German soldiers. I particularly enjoyed the chapters on the highest scoring  Sturmgeschutz commander and the German Army's greatest tank ace. If you are  looking for just one book to describe the fighting I could not think of any  better. The story flows along faultlessly even though each chapter covers a  different aspect of the war and fighting. From war in the trenches to a  bicycle mounted anti-tank unit fighting against the oncoming Russian  hordes. This is great and enjoyable history and I am sure that you will  find something in this book you did not know before. Recommend to all  students of military history.	2000-03-19
US	53066131	R1EF2PCMTFTSDB	0028647173	842941726	Beethoven	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Interesting Account of Beethoven and his works	Firstly an admission, I have no prior knowledge of Beethoven other than I enjoy listening to his music. That said I enjoyed this book although I had problems getting around some of the technical details in regards to his  music. I bought this book some time ago but only got around to reading it  after watching the video `Immortal Beloved'. This book answered a number of  questions for me and certainly provided a deep and interesting look at the  man behind the music I love so much. The author has broken the book into  four sections covering the life of Beethoven. At the end of each section he  describes the music that Beethoven composed during those periods of his  life (`Bonn', `Vienna: Early Years', `The Heroic Period' &amp; `The Final  Phase'). I found this worked well although like I stated early my education  in regards to music appreciation was some-what lacking and I found parts of  the book describing Beethoven's music beyond me. I am sure if you want to  learn about the genius that was Beethoven this book should satisfy you and  if you have some understanding of music and music composition you will  enjoy those sections of the book dealing with his works.	2000-03-19
US	53066131	R3QK6QQAAECB9W	0395599245	192902317	Tennozan: The Battle of Okinawa and the Atomic Bomb	Books	5	22	23	N	N	5 Stars PLUS	Having read this book when it was first published in hardback some years ago I am still to find another book that can better the author's account of this terrible Pacific War battle. Gerald Astor's book 'Operation Iceberg'  comes close but in a much different style. George Feifer's research was  in-depth and exhaustive, his style of writing is excellent. This is a  finely written combat narrative that utilises accounts of the participants  on sides; soldiers, sailors, airmen and civilians. It is a haunting account  and some of the stories of the fighting are truly evocative. I found that I  could not put this book down and the narrative just raced along carrying me  into this terrible maelstrom of battle and carnage. This is a great book  and I hope that every American appreciates what it's young men were asked  to do doing the Second World War. No serious student of the Pacific War  during WW2 should be without this book.	2000-03-18
US	53066131	R2LG2B95BZ5RPR	0871138034	324607158	Victory 1918	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Enjoyable History	This new book from Alan Palmer offers a new and interesting perspective of the final year of the Great War. The author attempts to show that the German and Austrian-Hungarian forces were finally defeat by the Allied  efforts in the `sideshow' areas of the First World War. Alan Palmer offers,  to me at least, an engrossing story of the Allied efforts in the Middle  Eastern, African, and Balkan theaters. He takes the reader on an engrossing  and comprehensive tour of the Allied military and diplomatic efforts in  these theatres and the subsequent result on the German war effort on the  Western Front. I found the story well told and interesting and although you  might not agree with his view he certainly provides the reader with a  detailed and interesting account of the war in the `sideshow' theatres of  WW1.	2000-03-10
US	53066131	R15FYXP6WGGR1X	0871137380	189891237	Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War	Books	5	9	10	N	Y	Excellent Combat Narrative	This is one of those great books that you can't put down; it reads like a novel, a fast paced narrative that can sometimes make you forget that it's a truth life drama where real people die. I enjoyed reading this book and  it's nice to see an honest appraisal of a stuffed-up mission, which was no  fault of the men on the ground. This is a well presented account of the men  of the US Army Rangers and Delta Force troops involved in a mission to  capture a pair of high-ranking deputies to warlord Mohamed Farrah Aidid. In  the end a number of their MH-60 Black Hawk helicopters had been shot down  and they were surrounded in a hostile city on the verge of being overrun.  This is the sort of book that all soldiers and politicians should read for  different reasons. Well done to the author and the men involved!	2000-03-10
US	53066131	R1DZOPQY2TEIB7	0521560594	638999829	The Austro-Prussian War: Austria's War with Prussia and Italy in 1866	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Excellent Overview of this Forgotten war	This book by Geoffrey Wawro on the Austrian-Prussian War of 1866 offers the reader a decent and easy to read account of this largely forgotten war. Most people have heard about the battle of Koniggratz but in this book  Wawro provides the full story of how this disastrous battle came about. I  must admit I was surprised of the level of stupidity shown by the Austrian  commanders. Wawro offers some very interesting insights into the decisions  made by the Prussian and Austrian High Command and the results. I found  that the book was very easy to read and the narrative flowed along  smoothly. The maps provided (26) were also easy to read and follow. The  authors level and depth of research is excellent and I don't think you  could fault him in his conclusions, The one and only compliant that I have  with the book is the cost.	2000-03-08
US	53066131	R16OMUN1WY8B5V	0253335469	686874951	Ancient Siege Warfare	Books	3	31	32	N	N	Interesting &amp; Detailed Account of Ancient Siege Warfare	After I finished reading this book I was not too sure how I felt, I was a bit ambivalent about how good or bad it was. At times I found it hard going to continue but then it picked up with a very interesting account of some particular siege or battle. However other times I felt it was becoming  repetitive, the same story with variations on the number of dead or the way  the victors tortured or killed their enemies. There is no doubt that the  author has thoroughly researched the subject but the narrative came across  a bit dry in the end. The chapters on the Roman army's conduct of siege  operations stand out. There were a number of line drawings and maps but I  found the maps to be of poor quality, I'm sure better ones could have been  found. If you are looking for a detailed account of how siege operations  were carried out in ancient times and the result of those sieges then this  is the book for you. I can only say that I did not find the narrative as  free flowing as I usually like in a book, it was almost like reading a  school text book at times. I would recommend this book only for those who  have a keen interest in the subject matter.	2000-02-04
US	53066131	R1B80M6RARMWWY	0345405404	144974062	Eleanor of Aquitaine: A Life	Books	4	116	120	N	N	Interesting Account of a Very Interesting Women	Once again Alison Weir has produced another wonderful and exciting biography. In this book on Eleanor of Aquitaine she has told the story of this most interesting person in a manner that had me glued to the pages. I  must state that I have not previously read any books on this subject, quite  a few on Richard I but nothing on his mother. I usually enjoy military  history but this was an excellent story, well researched and well presented  with heaps of plots, fighting and treachery. The story may well be known to  quite a few people out there but to me this book offered the first timer a  grand and interesting panorama of this most interesting person during a  most interesting period. The narrative was quick and exciting, moving along  covering a vast period of time and people however I never got lost in the  story. On a number of occasions points in dispute were threshed out and a  common sense approach was adopted in trying to find the truth of the  matter. Eleanor of Aquitaine had a number of detractors throughout history  but I think the author tried to present her story in a non biased manner.  This is a good book and I think that most people will enjoy the story and  even those who know the whole story should gain something from this  account.	2000-02-02
US	53066131	R2ECQFMIZ9H2MW	0312214421	916887037	Joan of Arc: Her Story	Books	4	43	44	N	Y	One of the Best Books on the Subject!	Not much can be added to the previous reviews. I would highlight the point that it would be wise to read the forward and preface before getting stuck into the book. The layout of the book is somewhat different to your normal  biography but in this case it works well. The story is excellent and is  well presented and as mentioned by other reviews without any noticeable  bias either way. The authors have produced a gripping and entertaining  story and have also provided the reader with some detailed lists of  principal characters, issues and images and appendices that have copies of  some letters written by `Joan of Arc'. The list of characters was very  detailed and makes the book a must have for any decent library. Overall  this is a very well researched account of this amazing woman and the story  was a joy to read. Recommend to anyone who loves good history.	2000-01-15
US	53066131	R2NVF7UIVPI2EE	0805063560	61699903	M: The Man Who Became Caravaggio	Books	5	121	128	N	N	Very Interesting Account of Caravaggio	I picked up this book after reading Desmond Seward's 'Caravaggio: A Passionate Life'. As I stated in my review of that book I had no prior knowledge of this artist and it was the beautiful colour plates that  initially attracted me to the book. Peter Robb's account of the life of  Caravaggio is a much larger book, over 560 pages with numerous B&amp;W and  exquisite colour plates. The story covers all aspects of Michelangelo  Merisi's (M) life and the author attempts to answer the questions about  this artist's dark life. Peter Robb provided an insight into the politics,  art and people of the period which I found very interesting and put much of  M's life in perspective. I found that the story flowed along faultlessly  and it was a joy to read and to learn about the paintings produced by M  during his life. I did find one aspect of the book a little annoying. The  author made mention or reference to a number of Caravaggio's paintings but  did not provide any plates to illustrate these pictures. In the end I  bought a small D&amp;K art book which I used to cross-reference all of the  artist pictures when mentioned in the narrative. Other than that I have no  complaints of this beautifully presented book and I am sure that anybody  who wants to learn more about this extraordinary man will certainly enjoy  this book.<br />&quot;There was art before him and art after him, and they  were not the same.&quot; - Robert Hughes	2000-01-15
US	53066131	R38LNFEFHILKCM	0789441381	462771181	Caravaggio: Master of Light and Dark--His Life in Paintings	Books	4	23	23	N	N	Vey Useful Guide to Caravaggio's Work	The main reason why I purchased this book was to assist me in viewing this artist's complete works when reading other mainstream books about Caravaggio, namely: 'Caravaggio: A Passionate Life' and 'M' - both  excellent books. The colour plates were lovely and each had detailed text  to assist you in your studies of his work. This is a nice and easy to read  guide book to this artists beautiful work. The narrative provides enough  detail about Caravaggio's life and work to give you the basic idea but do  not expect a detailed account, you will have to look elsewhere. Overall  this a quick reference guide and is well worth a look.	2000-01-15
US	53066131	R85BRUCUFBRIV	0679446516	966811716	Cairo: The City Victorious	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Entertaining History of this Great City	I don't think that I could add too much more to the previous excellent reviews of this book but I will try. Having visited this City some years back this book brought back snapshot memories of the street kids begging  and selling all sorts of things each time you stopped. The crushing crowds  at the Museum and the amount of traffic and the noise and smell of a truly  vibrant city. The book made me realise how much I did not see and  understand. The author, Max Rodenbeck, tells a remarkable and fascinating  story of this cities history, how and why it has become what it is now. The  author flicks back and forth from the earliest days to modern Cairo but you  never get lost in the story, the narrative just drags you along happily.  This is a great book, full of interesting pieces of information and a great  way to see Cairo without actually leaving your reading chair! I would  recommend this book to anyone who would like to visit Cairo or who already  has. Highly recommended reading.	2000-01-06
US	53066131	RZJTMM6DKCIS	0670821063	478732840	The Fight for the Malvinas: The Argentine Forces in the Falklands War	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Excellent and Interesting Account	Martin Middlebrook has once again shown why he is one of the best British authors covering military history. His masterful account of the Falklands, 'Operation Corporate' now has a companion volume, this time covering the  war from the Argentinian point of view. The book is well told and is a  delight to read and only one of very few covering this war from the 'other  side'. You really have to give it to the pilots flying their aircraft  against the Britsh Fleet, they had guts, they knew what they were in for  but continued with their mission. This is a great story, if you can get a  copy do so, you wont be disappointed!	1999-12-26
US	53066131	R2W96BYA0QGBHQ	0700609784	562488507	The Battle of Kursk (Modern War Studies)	Books	4	24	24	N	N	Well Researched Account of WW2 Pivotal Battle	There is no denying that this account of Kursk by David Glantz and Jonathan House is extremely well researched. The amount of detail is awe inspiring with 165 pages in the appendixes dedicated to OB's, strengths  &amp; losses, comparative armour strengths and key German &amp; Soviet  documents. The maps, some 32 in all, are very detailed however I must admit  that at time they were still hard to read due to the amount of detail. The  book itself was well presented and the photos were excellent. The only  fault that I could find with the book was that at times it dragged. With  the amount of detail being presented you need to catch your breath and  close the book. It was not the type of book that had a free flowing  narrative that kept you glued to the story, well not for me at least.  Beside that however this would rank as the definitive account of this major  Eastern Front battle and well worth the effort to read. No decent WW2  library would be complete without this book.	1999-12-26
US	53066131	R3225XE10ESBGA	0781806747	655168697	Mercenaries of the Ancient World	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Informative Account of the Role of Mercenaries	This is a very interesting account of the role of mercenaries in the Ancient World. The author, Serge Yalichev, offers a look into the role of the mercenary during the campaigns of the Persians, the Peloponnesian wars,  and the rise &amp; fall of Rome. He covers the multitude of battles fought  on land and sea during these periods. The author tells his story well of  these men and why they fought for other countries outside of their own. In  over 290 pages the narrative flows along giving you accounts of great  battles fought by these men and their master clients. I particularly  enjoyed reading about the Spartans and the 'Ten Thousand'. This is good  book, not too in-depth but well researched and with enough detail to  satisfy most readers. I am sure that it will spark an interest in most  people and anyone who enjoys good history should enjoy this book.	1999-12-26
US	53066131	R6TZHDYZBBMMU	0393315193	618804877	Captain James Cook: A Biography	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Excellent and Interesting Account	I loved this book when I first read it in 1994 and having just re-read it I remember why. Its an engrossing story, well told and enjoyable to read. I had very little knowledge of this man except that which is learnt by most  Primary school children in Australia. This book filled this neglectful gap  in my education and it was a lovely experience to learn about this man, his  travels and his experiences. Richard Hough tells a great story and if you  like good history then I'm sure you'll enjoy this story.	1999-12-26
US	53066131	R3340QJ8F53VS0	0671748742	835514862	Left to Die: The Tragedy of the USS Juneau	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Engrossing and Sad Account	I first read this book when it came out in hardback a few years back and parts of it still stick in my mind. The author offers an interesting and truely sad account of the fate of the survivors from the USS Juneau. I have  never forgotten the account of the five Sullivan brothers and the other men  left to die in the sea around Guadalcanal. This is a terrible story which  really reminds you that war is a horrible business. The author tells a  great story and you will find it hard to put the book down once you start.	1999-12-25
US	53066131	R2YJH89DRMVUUL	0688150322	425865070	Caravaggio: A Passionate Life	Books	4	13	16	N	Y	Interesting Account of Caravaggio and his works	Firstly an admission, I had no prior knowledge of Caravaggio or his paintings. My main area of interest is military history but after seeing the beautiful cover on this book I picked it up and browsed through the  wonderful colour plates. I had to have the book to read and after ordering  it from Amazon.com and sat and waited. It was worth the wait! I enjoyed the  story of this most interesting man, yes its a bit short (200 odd pages) but  to a person like me who had no prior knowledge or interest in this subject  it filled a gap in my education. This was an interesting book to read and I  just loved the colour plates of the artists work (16 colour pictures). The  book has sparked an interest to learn more of this man, his times and his  art. For that alone the book was worth it and the author has done his job.  I would recommend this book for those who want to learn a little bit more  about this man and his art.	1999-11-25
US	53066131	R35PODHY83EC9O	088064057X	502959630	The Conquest of Morocco	Books	4	28	34	N	N	Geat History  and a Great Read!	I have read this author's account on the French Foreign Legion and 'The Conquest of the Sahara' and this book is just as good as those two. Douglas Porch almost seems to have a inside line into what it must have felt like  to be one of the actors of these great drama's. If you want to read a great  book and learn something of the French involvement in the Middle East,  you'll love this book and his others. Take the chance and buy a copy and  then sit down and enjoy!	1999-11-24
US	53066131	R266OJ0YJ5W9GW	0071341455	981121243	Half a Wing, Three Engines and a Prayer: B-17s over Germany	Books	5	43	44	N	Y	Excellent Acount of B-17's in the Air War over Germany	This is an excellent account of the American Air effort over Europe during 1943-44. The author follows the wartime experiences of one crew from the  303rd &quot;Hell's Angels&quot; Bomb Group using personal accounts and  official records. This book is very much like Gerald Astor's 'The Mighty  Eight' and is as just as good, if not better. The story of Sgt Joseph  Sawicki, pages 207 to 217, brings home the horror and absolute bravery of  these men. I would hope that one day soon Sgt Sawicki's exceptional bravery  is recognised and he receives the medal of Honour, even though its over 50  years too late! Recommended to all who enjoy this period of history and  well done to the author!	1999-10-26
US	53066131	R1OXLR1RPLV3EM	0195067142	78132355	With the Old Breed: At Peleliu and Okinawa	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Excellent Combat Narrative	Not much can be added to the previous reviews of this excellent book. I have read many fine books covering the Pacific campaign during WW2 and so  many referred to this book that I had to find a copy for myself. It was  well worth the time and effort. I have since bought a copy for a friend  here in Australia and he also ranks it in his top 10 military history  books. The author offers an insight into what its like to be in combat  rarely found in most books nowadays. This is an honest, at times sad and  occassionaly funny, look at the life of a combat Marine during the final  battles in the Pacific. This book cannot be recommended highly enough!	1999-10-23
US	53066131	R25UJQWQCA830O	0786706635	29951353	To the Last Man	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Another Excellent History Book from Lyn McDonald	Once again Lyn McDonald has produced another excellent historical account covering the last year of the Great War. This, the first volume of two, covers the German offensive in March 1918 designed to knock the Allied  powers out of the war before America's might could be felt on the Western  Front. As usual Lyn McDonald has made fine use of first hand accounts and  draws you into the story from the very beginning. I found the book to be  well researched and presented and it sits proudly in my library along side  1914, 1915, the Somme and the rest of her great books. Highly recommended!	1999-10-19
US	53066131	R1C95RZZJA3OEY	034543403X	485023176	The Class of 1846: From West Point to Appomatox- Stonewall Jackson, George McClellan and Their Brothers	Books	3	13	15	N	N	Interesting Account of Civil War Generals	I found this book to be a very enjoyable book to read and if helped fill in a few spaces left about the great names of the Civil War before they became Generals. I have always enjoy reading accounts of the war with  Mexico and seeing how the future enemies of the American Civil War fought  together, saved each others lives on occassions and learnt the common  lessons of war. This is a very interesting and well presented account  although I found the battle scenes lacking in depth but I would suppose  that was not the authors main focus but more on the people involved. I  think it may have helped to have added a few maps of the fighting in Mexico  and the Valley as if you have no prior knowledge of these areas you really  do not appreciate the efforts involved in moving from one point to another.  Overall this is a decent book and most people should enjoy immersing  themselves in this bit of history.	1999-10-17
US	53066131	R3E7ZG1BKE8OOT	0393311309	286544299	Joseph E. Johnston: A Civil War Biography (Norton Paperback)	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Excellent Civil War Biography	I would have to agree with the previous review. This is one of the best Civil War biographies I have read in some time and I have not seen one better on Johnston yet. The author, I believe, offers a non-baised account  of this Confederate leader and writes in a style that just keeps you  turning the pages. The book is well researched and very well written, it  was a joy to read. I have no hesitation in recommending this book to anyone  who enjoys reading a decent history book. Well done to the author.	1999-10-17
US	53066131	R4IML3CL8CGKZ	0375400028	384687314	Bach: Everyman's Library-EMI Classics Music Companions	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Interesting Book, Lovely Music!	This is a lovely little pack of information and music on Johann Sebastian Bach. The book is clear, concise and interesting and offers a detailed but not too demanding biography of a wonderful composer. The accompanying CD's  (3) offer excellent examples of Bach's works and at the back of the book  the author provides details of each piece of music choosen on the CD along  with details for further reading. If you wanted one book to give you some  insight into the life of Bach and his works I could not recommend anything  better. I must state that I am no expert on this subject and this is the  first book I have read on Bach but like I said it's a great way to start!	1999-09-13
US	53066131	R130AS7O5P5BLX	0842027793	995572652	Blundering to Glory: Napoleon's Military Campaigns	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Interesting and Different Account of Napoleon	This was a very interesting and refreshing account of Napoleon the general and his military campaigns. Overall it offers a concise and interesting look at Napoleon's campaigns and battles and shows that he was a master of  adapting to battlefield conditions.<br />The author states from the beginning  that his book is not an in-depth account and anaylsis of Napoleon's  military strategy and he does nothing that detracts from Napoleon's  legend/myth. He argues that on a number of occassions Napoleon blundered in  his strategy but he always regrouped and utilised what ever advantage he  had to overcome his enemies.<br />I think the author did a good job in  substaining this arguement and offers a number of accounts to justify his  claims. You might not agree with what he has to say but you could not  always fault his logic. Either way it was an interesting but quick story  and I enjoyed the book.	1999-09-03
US	53066131	RCBQ104RJDLOI	0891414851	343410317	The Magnificent Bastards: The Joint Army-Marine Defense of Dong Ha, 1968	Books	3	8	9	N	Y	Interesting &amp; Honest Account of a Vietnam War Battle	You cannot but praise this author for his honesty. The book tells the story of a joint USMC and US Army battle in the DMZ with brutal truth. The story is told, warts and all, and it made this book what it is.<br />I must  say however that at times I felt the story got a bit disjointed and could  have used more and better maps to assist the narrative but overall the  author presents a decent and well researched account of this terrible  battle.<br />If you like down to earth and in your face combat accounts then  you should enjoy this book.	1999-08-27
US	53066131	R1CS303B20HJO0	0670882380	545983925	Mozart(Penguin Lives)	Books	4	6	8	N	Y	Excellent Lightweight Account of Mozart	This is an great book to read if you want a nice quick and very easy to read account of this great man. As the other reviews state its not a deep searching biography but its size does not detract from an excellent account  of this man and his times.<br />From page one I was drawn into the narrative  and learnt quite a few interesting pieces of information about Mozart, his  music and his personality. This book wets your appetite for more  information about Mozart and his music and any book that can do that much  then the author has done a decent job. Read it and enjoy!	1999-08-07
US	53066131	R1QY9T6RHI7PNR	0300064438	619082352	Britain and the Defeat of Napoleon, 1807-1815	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Interesting and Enjoyable Historical Account	I found this book surprisingly very easy to read and it held my interest throughout. It covered most facets of Britain's role in the war against Napoleon. As the previous review mentions it looks at why the British  Government carried out certain policies and the affects of those policies  on it's field army under Wellington, its continental allies and the rest of  the countries and people involved in the Napoleonic Wars.<br />This was a very  interesting and enjoyable account of the war against Napoleon and I did not  find it dull at any time. Although it only scratched the surface of the  military campaigns it gave enough detail for the reader to understand  completely what was happening and why.<br />Overall this is a well written and  researched account of Britain's role in Napoleon's downfall and should  appeal to anyone interested in this period of history.	1999-08-04
US	53066131	R2Z9730MRAVMAH	0306805316	365626977	Thermopylae: The Battle for the West	Books	3	25	27	N	N	Enjoyable Account of this Great Battle	This book offers the reader an enjoyable and interesting narrative of that most famous battle at Thermopylae. The author makes it clear that its not going to be a in-depth account but more of an overview of the battle and  the Persian campaign against the Greek City States. If you are looking for  a more detailed and scholarly book I would suggest Peter Green's book  titled 'The Greco-Persian Wars'. Overall, bearing in mind that this book  was published in 1980, this is a decent book covering Thermopylae and how  the Spartan's fought and why. It made me want to go and hire the old  classic video of the 300! Well worth the time to sit down and read.	1999-07-31
US	53066131	R3NKLJ7F1YSPD2	0872262235	403106183	Temples, Tombs and Hieroglyphs: A Popular History of Ancient Egypt	Books	4	50	51	N	N	Excellent account of Ancient Egypt	Firstly I must admit that I am not an expert on this subject. I learnt the basic stuff at High School and that's about it. My interest was sparked in Ancient Egypt after taking my daughter to watch 'The Mummy' and  subsequently reading Bob Brier's book 'The Murder of Tutankhamen'.<br />As it  has been previously noted by other reviewer's this book is somewhat dated  (orginally published in 1964) but that does not detract from the wonderful  narrative that the author weaves around the Pharaohs and their place in  history.<br />The author does not get bogged down in technical details and you  never lose interest in the story. She has a knack of writing about these  far away times and people as if it was yesterday and draws you into her  story. Overall I would recommend this book to anyone who wants to obtain a  decent overview of Ancient Egypt.	1999-07-18
US	53066131	RS3XIA11G4T09	0399143831	163667157	The Murder of Tutankhamen	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Fun and Interesting Account of Eygptian Mystery	This book is a bit off my normal reading taste but I found it to be a fun and interesting account of Ancient Eygpt and the circumstances surrounding the death of Tutankhamen. I enjoyed it a great deal and it has sparked a  desire to learn &amp; read more about this period of history. If an author  can inspire his readers to search out and learn more on a subject then his  book has done a good job. Overall it was an interesting and worthwhile  read, buy a copy and enjoy!	1999-07-11
US	53066131	R27AKVPJQV6M5R	0394742885	400767263	Iwo Jima: Legacy of Valor	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Excellent Combat History of a Terrible Battle	This is a first class combat narrative of the battle fought at Iwo Jima. I have not read any other accounts of this battle and I found that this book provided more than enough information to satisfy my interest. I note that  one previous reviewer talks about the book being tedious in the reader  following one man to his death and then being replaced by another. I found  that this only brought home the terrible nature of the type of warfare  carried out on the Pacific Islands towards the end of WW2. Some of the  stories of the men who earned America's highest decoration were truely sad  and they rightly deserved to be told in this book. Overall this is an  excellent combat narrative and I recommend it to anybody who wants to learn  about this terrible conflict.	1999-07-10
US	53066131	RE0XG3YR41BDJ	0374219362	222301968	Nathaniel's Nutmeg: Or, The True and Incredible Adventures of the Spice Trader Who Changed The Course Of History	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Interesting History	This is an enjoyable book to read, easy to get into and hard to put down. I found the story of the Spice Trade to be quite interesting and that I suppose was a result of the hard work put in by the author. The story was fun, vibrant and quiet blood-thirsty and all over a little 'nut'. This is  good fun history and the story is well told. Well done to the author!	1999-06-25
US	53066131	R1R73JYBE50REX	1557509468	614884788	The Rescue of Bat 21	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	The True Account of the Rescue of Bat-21	This was a well written and researched account which told the true story behind the numerous missions to rescue Bat-21 Bravo and other fliers downed during subsequent missions during April 1972.  Firstly I must say I was  amazed to read of the neglect shown in the passage of information and/or  Intelligence between the American Air Force and Army. How this could come  about or allow to continue amazes me considering it had some bearing on the  lives of American soldiers and airmen and also on the prosecution of the  war.<br />I was unaware of the full details of the rescue of Lt. Col.  Hambleton and the role and involvement of Navy SEALS and Sth Vietmanese  troops. I had only seen the movie 'Bat 21' before and figured that it  portrayed the 'true' story - how wrong can you be.<br />I think the authors  attempt to answer a number of questions in relation to the 'worth' of one  man during the 1972 Easter Offensive is well done but I would recommend  that readers should take the opportunity to read 'Trial by Fire' by Dale  Andrade which offers a detailed and excellent account of America's last  Vietnam battle and which could also place this episode in  perspective.<br />'The Rescue of Bat 21' is a good, quick book (164 pages) to  read, the narrative flows along and the story never gets bogged down. If  you want to read about man's un-selfish devotion to duty and his fellow man  during a terrible war this is the book to read. Well done to the author and  well done to those men who played a part in this story, especially those  who did not return.	1999-06-14
US	53066131	RDLVHIXMC62XB	1573922471	14914026	Jihad in the West: Muslim Conquests from the 7th to the 21st Centuries	Books	3	18	28	N	N	Interesting Account of the Jihad in History	I found this book to be a very easy to read account of the role of 'Jihad' in European history. I have read about a dozen books on the Crusades from terry Jones 'Crusades' to Steven Runciman's 'The First Crusade' and to tell  the truth this has been the first book I have seen that looks at the Muslim  version of our 'Crusades'.<br />The author only offers a brief overview of  Jihad in Europe but even that brief history is very interesting. I found at  times that the authors sarcasm spoilt my reading, he at times laboured the  point. I have no problem with accepting that Muslims were as voilent and  blood thirsty as their Christian counter parts. There are many events in  history that 'Christians' should be ashamed of as well.<br />It must also be  said that we should not ignore this piece of history just because it may  offend people of the Muslim faith. Its a interesting and enjoyable read,  and it is something that we should not forget. Overall its a good book and  I think most people would enjoy it.	1999-06-08
US	53066131	R1GUGKDGVUM0GT	0375400524	841119426	The First World War	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Excellent and Well Written Account of WWI	Once again John Keegan has produced another well written and researched book to add to his growing number of titles. This is an excellent one volume account of the Great War which the novice or experienced reader will  enjoy. I found the first few chapters a bit dry but once the author moved  into the sections covering the fighting the book moved along smartly.<br />The author covers all theatres of the war and covered those naval and  aviation aspects that had bearing on the war as a whole. There were a  number of excellent general maps and numerous black &amp; white photographs  to assist the reader to follow the narrative.<br />Overall a great book to  read and well worth the time to sit down and enjoy.	1999-05-24
US	53066131	RUZ26G6X9RA20	080504681X	510058680	Saratoga: Turning Point of America's Revolutionary War	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Excellent Account of a Revolutionary Turning Point	Not much can be added to the previous reviews of this excellent book. The author has produced a well written and researched account of this great and interesting period of history. At times I felt for the British and wanted  them to win and at other times I felt for the American forces.<br />Its a  great book if you can see both sides of the story and come away impressed  with both points of view. I thoroughly loved reading this book, at no time  did it get bogged down or boring. The use of first hand accounts from  participants on both sides were well placed and utilised. I would have  liked more maps but those provided were OK.<br />For a person like myself who  does not have much knowledge of the American Revolution this is a great  book. I would recommend it to anyone who enjoys general history or who  wants to learn about America's past. Well done to the author!	1999-05-23
US	53066131	R2GP7V5BFJ28HV	1885119259	854950352	Thunder Along The Mississippi: The River Battles That Split The Confederacy	Books	3	2	6	N	Y	Decent Summary of the River battles in the West	This book offers the reader a general overview of the Federal campaign in the West using the great water-ways to cut the Confederacy in half. The author presents a well told and interesting story, covering the river craft  and tactics used by both sides.<br />Overall I found it a half decent book to  read but it does not offer an in-depth account of the battles and campaigns  fought to gain Vicksburg. If that's what your after you will have to look  else where but the book is well suited for a general reader.	1999-05-13
US	53066131	R1TX10GBS1PZ5K	0870212567	337312175	Disaster in the Pacific: New Light on the Battle of Savo Island	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Decent Account of What Really happened at Savo Island	Having read the previous review of this book I only wish to say that I felt this book was well presented and researched. Only the final three chapters out of 17 cover in detail why this disaster happened. Most of the  book deals with the lead up to the battle and what happened during the  battle. I have no problems with the authors trying to present facts that  show that the RAAF crew flying the Hudson were not to blame. Isn't it about  time that they got a fair shake and their reputations rehabilitated?<br />How  many other authors have continued presenting this incident as the main  cause for the allied defeat when in reality it was numerous other little  things that combined to cause the disaster. I also agree with the previous  reviewer in relation to another great book on this battle 'The Shame of  Savo' written by Bruce Loxton and Chris Coulthard-Clark.<br />Overall  'Disaster in the Pacific' was a good book to read and I found it well  researched and presented.	1999-05-05
US	53066131	R9UNGTLJ7QH27	1557042489	733181191	A Glorious Way to Die: The Kamikaze Mission of the Battleship Yamato, April 1945	Books	4	8	11	N	N	A Good Moving Account of the Final Mission of the Yamato	This was a very decent and well researched account of the final mission of the Japanese Battleship 'Yamato'. The story was told well and the author made good use of first hand accounts by the participants on both sides. The  book shows that not all Japanese were fanatical in their desire to die for  no good cause, a lot where soldiers/sailors doing their duty as they saw  fit.<br />The author presented some very interesting accounts of young  Japanese sailors and of some young American pilots. It also offered a  overview of the whole suicide campaign against Allied forces off Okinawa.  This was a easy book to read and I came away feeling sorry for alot of the  American &amp; Japanese servicemen who gave their lives for the country. A  good read!	1999-05-04
US	53066131	R24ACWI7BF1GV7	0312199589	493010166	Romans and Barbarians: Four Views from the Empire's Edge, 1st Century AD	Books	4	8	11	N	Y	A Very Interesting Look At The Roman Empire	I found this book to be surprisingly good, very easy to read and very enjoyable. The author offers four different views of life on the outer edges of the Roman Empire, from a Poet, a Lawyer, a Soldier and an Artist.  The story flows along nicely with interesting views on the 'barbarians'  encountered by Rome. I'm not an expert on this subject but I found the book  held my interest and the author did no lose me in any of his explanations  or descriptions of this period. This book has provoked a desire to read  more about this period of history which to me indicates that the author has  done a good job with this book. Well worth the time to sit down and read.	1999-04-29
US	53066131	R1D9G1MSGZGUX3	0679418636	780958653	The Last Days of Innocence: America at War, 1917-1918	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Well Done Historical Account of America's Role in WWI	If you wanted one book that would provide you with a detailed account of America's role in the Great War this is it. The author's cover every aspect of America's involvement in WW1. This book covers everything from the  gradual decline in civil liberties, the increase in Govt. agencies power  over the individual, the war industry the training and arming of her armed  forces to their final deployment on the European battlefield. Although  America didn't get into the fighting until the last few months of the war  she paid for the privilage with many young American lives. This is a well  researched and a well told story and every American should read the book to  fully appreciate what their countymen did in 1917-1918.	1999-04-24
US	53066131	R2WAB6RCZ574C4	1557500312	535895095	Utmost Savagery: The Three Days of Tarawa	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	Great Fighting Account of  a Terrible Battle	This is an excellent book of the fighting at Tarawa in WW2. The author has done a great job in presenting the story, it was so well told that I found it hard to put the book down. Ever since I was a kid I have had a  fascination for the USMC and after reading this book I remember why. What  guts! The author also presents the Japanese defenders as humans, rarely  done in many books about combat in the Pacific during the war. The author  has researched his story well and has used numerous maps and a number of  sobering B&amp;W photos to assist his narrative. I would recommend this  book to anyone who loves a great story, well done to the author!	1999-04-21
US	53066131	R33GBHKW0YKA5K	1575000512	551695850	Russia's War	Books	4	15	18	N	Y	Decent Account of Russia's Effort During WW2	This book offers the reader a decent and non-bias account of Russia's wartime effort during the Second World War. Although not as detailed as John Erickson's two volume account of the Soviet military effort its a lot  more easier to understand and follow. Also you aren't left with the  impression that the book was full of Russian propaganda. It tells the story  as it really was, showing both the good and the bad side of the Russian  leadership and its role in trying to stem the German onslaught into Mother  Russia. I think that we tend to forget the effort and loss of life that  Russia bore during WW2 although the author does not dismiss the West's aid  to Russia during the War. The book offers a nice balance between two the  camps (East &amp; West).It was a nice compliment to the TV series which is  currently showing in Australia. Well worth the time to sit down and read.	1999-04-17
US	53066131	R16NSF8IX85XW3	0380973499	536414904	War's End: An Eyewitness Account of America's Last Atomic Mission	Books	5	3	7	N	Y	An Excellent Story!	This is a interesting first-hand account of the lead up to and the completion of the two atomic bomb missions against Japan in 1945. The author offers an interesting insight into these missions and offers no  apologies for his actions. None is needed, he did his duty as required and  nobody should be judged unless you/they have lived during that period. I am  sure that there are many WW2 veterans from many different countries who owe  their lives to men like the author. If the war had dragged on, even for  another month, how many more lives would have been lost from combat,  accidents, mistreatment and execution of Allied POW's? This is a good story  and I hope that everyone who doubts the wisdom of ending WW2 as quickly as  possible should read this book.	1999-03-29
US	53066131	R39IIHQF18YGZA	0870491997	885205424	Shiloh: In Hell Before Night	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Well Written Account of this pivotal Battle	I must say that I was pleasantly surprised by this book. I was prepared for another complex and hard to follow book on this battle and in this case I was wrong. It was straight forward and easy to follow. The maps could  have been more detailed but other than that this was a great book on this  battle. Maybe not as in depth as Larry Daniel's 'Shiloh' but much easier to  read. The author also covers a number of the controversies raised by the  handling of this battle by both Federal &amp; Confederate commanders. I am  looking forward to reading this author's other books.	1999-03-24
US	53066131	R2N5DC2YIAK3BA	0140170413	803838595	The Price of Glory: Verdun 1916	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A classic of military history	Not much that can be added to the previous reviews submitted to Amazon.com. This is a classical piece of military history, well written and presented. This would be the best book that you'll find covering the  terrible slaughter that is known as 'Verdun' during WWI. The author is one  of the best English authors who covers French history and he writes his  stories well. Take the time to read this book you wont be disappointed!	1999-03-09
US	53066131	R1FU4MWIXTUPVU	0140168222	204260197	Death's Men: Soldiers of the Great War (Penguin history)	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Excellent account of the Great War	If you want to read a true historical account of the Great War and how it affected the men &amp; women involved this is the book. The author does not hide the gruesome accounts of the survivors of artillery fire and the  affects upon mens body of the modern weapons of war. He tells the story of  what men went through as soldiers in WWI, from training to the end of the  line. This is a story about the soldiers not the Generals and their doomed  tactics. Its a must read if you want to understand the Great War fully.	1999-03-09
US	53066131	R2T05R18HGS4EF	1572490144	503237301	Hold the Marianas: The Japanese Defense of the Mariana Islands	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Interesting account of some terrible fighting	This was a well researched account of the fighting in the Marianas during WW2. The author utilised Japanese accounts of the battle to tell the story. He covered the history of the Islands, the Japanese take over, before and  during WW2, of the Island chain and the subsequent American effort to  re-take the Islands in 1944.  Overall the author offered an interesting  account into the desperate fighting for these pieces of coral but at times  the narrative became dry and repetative. The maps were OK and the authors  selection of B&amp;W photos were suitable for the narrative. The author  also offered an interesting chapter on relics left from the fighting.  Overall this was a decent account of this Pacific campaign.	1999-02-13
US	53066131	R1KO6WJH9LJNTR	0891416560	614666525	Rommel's Greatest Victory: The Desert Fox and the Fall of Tobruk, Spring 1942	Books	4	9	9	N	Y	A well crafted story	Not much can be added to the previous review from Amazon.com. I found this book easy and enjoyable to read. The author offers a well presented and researched account of Rommel's capture of Tobruk in 1942. It shows Rommel  at his best although he was hepled at times by the Allies lack of  understanding of all-arms combat. It shows Rommel was also extremely lucky  on occassion but he was a commander who led from the front and took  advantage of these lucky breaks.<br />The only faults I could find with this  book were the maps and some incorrect captions to some of the photos. I  felt that the maps could have provided more detail. I hate reading about a  location in the narrative but not being able to find it on the relevant  map. The author provided numerous maps throughout the narrative but they  could have been on a higher standard. I noticed two incorrect captions to  the photos, one showing a Panzer MkIV with a 75cm main gun but labled as a  Panzer MkIII and another photo listed as a British Valentine tank but which  is a Cruiser MkII or MkIII.<br />Regardless of these minor faults this is  still a very good book covering this battle (and only one of few that  does!) and was a delight to read. I would recommend it to anyone who enjoys  military history.	1999-02-04
US	53066131	R3B0S5QX93FTRH	0684807653	227490085	Her Little Majesty: The Life of Queen Victoria	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Nice little piece of history	This is a very well written book which was a pleasure to read. You couldn't say that it was an in-depth biography but it was a book that provided enough facts to the keep the reader interested. Short and too the  point but a well crafted narrative and a nicely presented story that was a  joy to read. Recommended for anyone who likes history!	1999-01-31
US	53066131	R2F5WZJWNAUN4I	031215318X	138924487	Renaissance	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Beautifully Illustrated History of the Renaissance	I have very little knowledge of the Renaissance and the only reason I picked this book up in the first place was for the beautiful illustrations contained inside. I found the book easy to read and the author provided me  with an understanding of this period in history and backed this up with a  fine selection of paintings and other items from the masters of this  period.<br />I would recommend this book to anyone who wants an easy to  understand account of the Renaissance and how it affected peoples lives.  The author takes his time to explain the period in laymans terms, it was  well presented and well researched.  It's worth it just for the illustrations  alone!	1999-01-23
US	53066131	R3RHHZHXVYGVY0	0465027237	281777926	George III: A Personal History	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Interesting Account of King George III	Christopher Hibbert has once again produced a well researched account of another interesting and great man. Following on from Nelson and Wellington comes this very readable biography of the English King, George III. I'm not  too sure what sort of reception this book will receive in the United States  where I take it he was not so well liked in his time but its a very  enjoyable book and offers a very interesting and detailed look at, by all  accounts, a popular King. The book took a little to get into but after a  few chapters it was becoming one of those books that you find hard to put  down. The author covers every facet of George III's life including his  family, politics, social life and his madness. The King appears to have  been a very kind and considerate Monach and took great interest in his  subjects and the humanities. Its a great yarn and I'm sure that readers  both sides of the Atlantic will enjoy the story.	1999-01-19
US	53066131	R3END04LHMTD7O	0807819832	145101701	Burnside (Civil War America)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Well Researched &amp; Presented Military Biography	Ambrose Burnside may not be many people's favourite Civil War Commander but in this 1991 biography, the author, William Marvel, presents Burnside in a light previously not seen before. The Federal general comes across as  a man who cared deeply for his men and was honest in his dealings with  other commanders and his subordinates. The author presents his case that  Burnside's reputation was tarnished by other Federal commanders who wished  to pass on the blame of their failures to this man who would not publicly  air his dissent. Examples given are General McClellan at Antietam, General  William Franklin at Fredericksburg and Meade at the Wilderness and  Petersburg. The author presents his case well and you start to feel that  maybe Burnside was given the short end of the stick in a lot of cases.  Burnside appears to be a patriotic soldier who was prepared to give  everything to the cause regardless of the cost to himself and his  reputation. Marvel offers references &amp; notes to support his theory and  although he tends to offer Burnside the benefit of the doubt most of the  time I still came away feeling that Burnside probarly did not deserve all  the negative media he has received in history. Overall this is a well  researched and presented biography and although you may not agree with the  author it's still a very well told story and a treat to read.	1999-01-15
US	53066131	R3BW5FJZYX9QB5	0631206310	281384155	Hannibal (Blackwell Ancient Lives)	Books	3	28	28	N	Y	A Decent Biography of a Great Military Commander	This was an interesting account of Hannibal provided by this French author, who is a Professor of Archaeology at the University of Grenoble. He utilises most contempary and some modern accounts of Hannibal and his  campaigns and also offers his views on those accounts to assist the reader  in judging the accuracy of the text.<br />At times I found the narrative to  become a bit muddled and somewhat dry but overall he offers a decent  biography of this Great Commander. I would have appreciated a more in-depth  account of his battles but the author does provide details of every facet  of Hannibals campaigns including the political background at the time.<br />For those looking for a more detailed military history of Hannibal and  his role in the Punic Wars I would recommend Nigel Bagnall's 'The Punic  Wars'. For a view from &quot;the other side&quot; I would recommend 'Scipio  Africanus, Greater than Napoleon' by Liddell Hart.<br />However if you just  want a decent account of Hannibal and an over-view of his role in the  second Punic War than this book should fit the bill.	1998-12-27
US	53066131	R3JV88FIDND31O	0814757812	119280409	The Conquest of the Reich: D-Day to VE Day--A Soldiers' History	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Moving &amp; Interesting Account of the Final Months of WW2	I have been a keen fan of Robin Neillands since reading his books on the Hundred Years War and the War of the Roses. This book was a break from his usual manner of writing, similar in style to Gerald Astor and just as good.<br />The author covers the final stages of WW2 using accounts of the  participants, both military &amp; civilian. From tank drivers, infantryman,  pilots and gunners in the fighters &amp; bombers and from every country  involved - US, UK, USSR, Canada, Australia, France, Germany, etc.<br />The  narrative flowed along and was easy to read with the accounts from the  veterans blending in without interrupting the flow of the story. Numerous  B&amp;W photos and maps along with drawings added to the story.<br />Overall  this book offers a different perspective to the War in Europe in those  final few months. With the movie 'Saving Private Ryan' generating such  interest in this period of history this book should offer many readers an  insight to what people suffered and experienced in WW2.	1998-12-27
US	53066131	RRJASPA8IC5MM	0890894574	976239112	The Celtic Empire: The First Millennium of Celtic History : C. 1000 Bc-51 Ad	Books	4	3	7	N	N	Excellent Overview of the Celtic Empire	Having first read this book in 1991 I may have forgotten parts of the story but what I haven't forgotten was that it was an excellent story. The author has presented a rich account of the first millennium of Celtic  history (1000BC - 51AD). This may not be a highly detailed history but its  a good story and covers all the major points of history that you would want  to know about the people we call the Celts.<br />It covers all aspects of  their life and their role in the ancient world. Its a good book, well  presented and researched and it's a joy to read. The text just flows along  taking you on a journey back in time to when the Celts were the most feared  and respected people in the land. Read it and enjoy!	1998-12-21
US	53066131	R2HQDW9KC2I92A	0393022811	736104414	The Spanish Ulcer: A History of the Peninsular War	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Excellent Campaign Study of the Peninsular War	If you only want to a have one book on the Peninsular War, this is it. This is a great account of the battles and campaigns fought in Spain &amp; Portugal during the Napoleonic Wars. In over 550 pages of text the author,  David Gates, offers the reader a detailed account of the fighting with a  non-bias point of view. He offers assessments of the opposing Generals and  their forces and covers the political and social background of the times.<br />The only fault I could find with this book would be the standard of the  maps. They are sufficient in number and assist the reader in following the  fighting but could have been of a better quality and detail. The author  also provides a number of B&amp;W photographs. Overall this is one of the  best single volume accounts on this subject and well worth the time to  read.<br />&quot;Using French &amp; Spanish as well as British material, he  presents the first brief and balanced account of the war to have appeared  within our generation. As the first work of a new young military historian  it is a major achievement, and I hope that we shall see many more from his  pen&quot;. - Michael Howard, Oxford University<br />Just for information the  book was first published in 1986 and the author was a Lecturer at the  Centre for Defence Studies at the University of Aberdeen.	1998-12-21
US	53066131	R2V3X2APY5ZJC9	0094755809	669942465	Celt and Greek: Celts in the Hellenic World (Celtic Interest)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	An Interesting Read	I'm no expert in this period of history, I have an understanding of the cultures and countries involved and as such I enjoyed this book very much. I have read an earlier book by this author 'The Celtic Empire' which I  thought was a well written and presented account of the Celtic people. This  led me to purchase this book and I will more than likely buy his latest  account of the Celts titled 'Celt &amp; Roman'.<br />In this book the author  covers the Celts during the period of the time when Greece and Rome were  the dominate players in the ancient world. Its an enjoyable read and I  learnt a few things on the journey. The book covers their social background  and inter-action with other people along with their military campaigns  against the Greeks and Romans and their occassional mercenary role in the  ancient armies. The author does not go into excessive detail but certainly  provides the facts as he knows them and tells a good story in the process.	1998-12-21
US	53066131	R2TJ054TG8JRX2	0233975691	680612300	Cassino: The Hollow Victory : The Battle for Rome January-June 1944	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Detailed and extensive account of Cassino Battle	This book was first published in 1984 and is still one of the better researched books covering the fighting around Cassino in Italy in 1944. In over 587 pages the author covers nearly ever facet of the fighting both  from the Allied side and the Axis. From the soldier in the ruined villages  and trenches to the Top Brass wondering what to do next. This is a well  researched and well presented account and the story moves along with  numerous maps and B&amp;W photos to assist the reader. This is as good an  account you will get covering this battle.	1998-12-16
US	53066131	R1AVQTKO4J6566	0395670292	908326568	Lost Moon: The Perilous Voyage of Apollo 13	Books	5	0	0	N	N	This is a GREAT book, buy it &amp; enjoy	This is not the type of book that I would normally read but the movie sparked an interest I had to satisfy. I am so glad that I bought this book, I have not been able to put it down since I laid my hands on it. I can say  no more that its a great book and a great story of man's courage and  determination. I was spell bound from cover to cover, its well written,  well researched and easy to read. This is one of my all time non-fiction  books and it sits proudly in my library. GREAT STUFF!!!!!!!!!	1998-12-06
US	53066131	R1YBOGAFZ5LI0R	0679439781	289325498	Confederates in the Attic : Dispatches from the Unfinished Civil War	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Interesting and thought provoking book	I don't know if I can offer much on this book after all that has been said below in the other reviews. Being from Austrlia which is some distance from the United States and with no background in the Civil War (other than  reading great history books) I found this a very interesting book. At times  I was amazed and saddened and I wondered was America really like this. I  think the book offers you something about your country that you can be  proud of but also maybe a bit scared of as well. A very interesting travel,  well worth the time to read.	1998-12-01
US	53066131	R8LUYS4TEW0VX	0891415254	273166380	Lost Victories: The War Memoirs of Hitler's Most Brilliant General	Books	4	45	53	N	N	Excellent Military Memoirs of German WW2 General	Having first read this book in 1988 I find that it is still one of the best military memoirs of WW2. It stands next to 'Panzer Leader' by Heinz Guderian, 'Neither Fear Nor Hope' by General F. Von Senger Und Etterlin and  'The Rommel Papers'. The book is very easy to read and is valuable to any  one who wishes to understand 'the other side of the hill'. His accounts of  the various actions he was involved in during the War are excellent and his  views on Hitler and German strategy make this a great book.	1998-12-01
US	53066131	R2YUEG9U3Y2V9S	0060178191	845964663	Black May: The Epic Story of the Allies' Defeat of the German U-Boats in May 1943	Books	3	1	2	N	Y	Detailed Account Of U-Boat Operations	The first reviewer has covered everything that can be said or needs to be said about this book. A bit like Clair Blay's U-Boat War, this is a very detail account of U-Boat operations during May 1943 which the author shows  to be the critical period of the war in the Atlantic. The author has gone  to great lengths to cover every facet of this period including the men,  equipment and tactics however after a while it starts to be abit too much.  I started to miss the human element in the story and found that the facts  and figures were getting in the way of the story. I might be wrong as I  read this book while on night shift and I was probarly tied but I found it  hard to keep reading after about 180 pages. However it must be said that  the author is to be commended on the amount of research he has taken to put  this book together. If you want an in-depth account of U-boat operations in  the Atlantic you couldn't do much better than this book.	1998-11-30
US	53066131	R2BN15ZL5D8TXB	039305442X	394420508	The first day on the Somme, 1 July 1916	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Best Book Ever On This Terrible Battle	I'm surprised that there was no readers review on this great book. I have read nearly all of Martin Middlebrook's books and this was the book that got me started. It was and still is the best account you'll have the  pleasure to read covering the first day on the Somme. It's graphic,  touching, sad and horrific, you can see the images of the men walking into  the machine gun fire and being mown down. If you think that all WWI  histories are boring accounts of figures and strategic movements this book  will change your mind. Find a copy!	1998-11-26
US	53066131	R3L4MUUXYMU3A1	0425157776	828859973	Navy Times Book of Submarines	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Excellent Overview of the History of the Submarine	I have read nearly every decent book you can get on U-boats and submarine warfare during WWI and WWII. This new book is one of the better books that offers you a more complete understanding of their historical background and  role. Most people know about the U-boats and the terrible campaign they  waged against Merchant shipping during both World Wars but who knows about  the very early submarines, their sometimes unfortunate crews and their  inventors.<br />This was a great story and I was unsure if I would find the  history behind the submarine as interesting as its role in naval warfare  but I did. The author tells a great story that never gets boring and keeps  you reading page after page with interesting bits of information and first  hand accounts of those involved. I found this book easy to read and it was  a joy to lay back and read a few pages each night.	1998-11-13
US	53066131	R1IVNEF4FQB2N8	0553483668	213608851	Gold Medal Horse (The Saddle Club, Book 55)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A very good book for horse lovers	This book was a very good story about a horse with a big heart. The horse in this story, 'Southward', never gave up, he just kept on trying. I loved this story, it was well told by Bonnie Bryant, collect the series.	1998-11-05
US	53066131	R1CLNQDGN0FNBB	0801848644	242905791	The Dawn's Early Light (Maryland Paperback Bookshelf)	Books	3	30	33	N	N	Concise &amp; interesting account of this campaign.	This book is the first I have read concerning the War of 1812. In this book the author covers the period from August 1814 with the British marching onto Washington. Walter Lord offers a spendid account of the  fighting at Bladensburg, the burning of Washington and the subsequent  campaign against the British. The use of first hand account offers a  splendid insight into the people, soldiers, sailors and politicians caught  up during this period of history. A well researched and finely told account  of this dramatic time in America's past. An excellent story!	1998-11-05
US	53066131	R2GLLHHN52E1MA	0140068147	725749247	Miracle at Midway	Books	3	7	10	N	N	OK historical account of this famous battle	This has been the only book I have read so far on the Battle of Midway. I have read previous books on Pearl Harbour by the same author and I was looking forward to a good account of this battle. Overall I found the book  covered all the details with numerous first hand accounts from participants  from both sides but it wasn't a book that held me spellbound and glued to  the narrative. It was a good working text that gave you a thorough account  of the battle and was unbiased in its approach. I am sorry to say however  that I was looking for a little bit more to draw me into the story.	1998-10-31
US	53066131	R2CHPA87S5XQYU	0345405331	560118008	The Life of Elizabeth I	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Very interesting biography of a great Queen	I enjoyed reading this book, it offered such interesting insights into the  Court of Elizabeth I and her period that it was hard to put down. At times  I wanted less detail of her personal life and more on what was happening in  Europe and England but I suppose that was what the book was all about  anyhow. This is a very well told piece of history which I think comes close  to being as good as Antonia Fraser's book 'Mary Queen of Scots'. Although I  think Elizabeth had more to do with Mary Queen of Scots execution than this  author would like to say. (My Scottish bias maybe!). A great story, and  just in time for the current movie which is also excellent.	1998-10-25
US	53066131	R1RPHPN2CH2HMN	0395083664	546782377	The Armada (The American Heritage Library)	Books	4	14	17	N	N	Interesting Account of the Spanish Armada	This is the first book I have bothered to read on the defeat of the  Spanish Armada (I'm more a land person) and I must confess I quite enjoyed  it. Intially it takes a little bit of getting into but the author offers  the reader an excellent account of the events leading up to the 'Enterprise  of England' including the campaigns in the Low Countries and the Political  manoeuvres of the leaders involved. This is an excellent account and I  found myself drawn into the narrative, not knowing what was going to happen  next although the end result is well known. This is a good piece of history  and story telling!	1998-10-19
US	53066131	R1S906TKIB67BO	0670870951	436220225	Stalingrad: The Fateful Siege, 1942-1943	Books	4	2	4	N	Y	A great account of this terrible battle	This is an excellent account of the battle of Stalingrad, I'd place it  next to 'Enemy at the Gates'. The author gives you an overview of the  military situation on the Eastern Front prior to the German Offensive  towards Stalingrad on the Volga. The author tells the story of this  terrible battle through the accounts of those soldiers who endured this  inferno and survived as well as using letters and diaries of those who  didn't! This is a story of the fighting, not of the strategy and tactics  behind the Armies. It's a good account of the battle and well worth the  time to read. You'll feel for those common soldiers, both German &amp;  their Allies and the Russians. A great book.	1998-09-22
US	53066131	ROERXWIO9A7HN	0781802865	171314898	Trial by Fire: The 1972 Easter Offensive, America's Last Vietnam Battle	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Excellent &amp; detailed account of the Easter Offensive	This is a excellent account of the 1972 Easter Offensive in Vietnam during  the final stages of the American troop withdrawals. This is a story of  courage, stupidity, cowardice and of major and minor fire-fights and  battles. The courage of those American advisers and the South Vietamese  troops they assisted during this brutal offensive is awe inspiring. Not to  forget their enemies who took massive punishment from US airpower but  carried on the fight! This is a well researched and written piece of  military history which I think has been forgotten due to the fact that it  was at the tail end of a unpopular war. The author has done a great job to  remind us that the war didn't finish when all the troops got home, that  people continued to fight &amp; die long after. Well worth the time to read  with over 500 pages of text, however the author could have provided some  better maps.	1998-09-22
US	53066131	R39I070BSNC7HU	1560986654	538454268	BLANKETS OF FIRE: U.S. Bombers over Japan during World War II (Smithsonian History of Aviation and Spaceflight Series)	Books	4	20	22	N	N	Excellent account of the Strategic Bombing Campaign	I was unsure if I would like this book at first, all a bit too technical.  I was wrong, this was a very easy to read and well presented book covering  the American Strategic bomber campaign against Japan using the B29 Bomber.  It was a well researched account and the technical details in relation to  the design &amp; construction of the perfect bomber, training and weapons  &amp; tactics used were so well written that the narrative never got  boring. Although the subject matter was horrific, the raids against  Japanese cities and civilians, the book was a non-bias account of this  necessary campaign. I found this book hard to put down and would recommend  it to anyone who wants to learn about this period of WW2 history. Well done  to the author!	1998-08-29
US	53066131	R1PQJSPG1ILRG6	1853672327	349563623	On the Fields of Glory: The Battlefields of the 1815 Campaign	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Enjoyable &amp; Different Account of the Waterloo Campaign	This was a very pleasing and easy to read account of the Waterloo  Campaign, a bit different in style in that it takes you on a tourist type  walk around the battlefield. The authors have produced a very well  researched account of the battle and what you may find there now if you  visited the site of the fighting. I was unsure if I would like this style  of writing but I found it very enjoyable, with decent maps to follow the  action and to find things present on the battlefield today. The photos and  drawings were excellent and well chosen to assist in the narrative of the  book. If you are planning to visit this great battlefield this book would  be of great assistance. A delight to read!	1998-08-22
US	53066131	R3DMGXQTWDVJ2U	081171523X	13493507	Scalp Dance	Books	4	12	20	N	Y	Ripping good yarn!	Its a shame that this book tells such a terrible story as its such a well written account of a terrible period of America's history. I found it a very interesting account of Indian warfare on the high plains after the Civil War. The author used first-hand accounts of the fighting and style of warfare used by both sides. The only fault that I could find with this book that there were not many similiar accounts from the 'other' side. Overall an excellent read which makes you realise how lucky we are sometimes and what other people had to endure back in those days.	1998-08-08
US	53066131	R10585ONZBDUF0	0394753666	606072682	The Fatal Shore: The Epic of Australia's Founding	Books	5	2	2	N	N	History at its best	This is a great book, one of the finest history books I have read covering Australia. I found the book easy to read, the narrative flowed along full of facts but never dull. Its not stuffy and boring like a lot of history books but a very good yarn. I have sent copies to friends around the world and they have all enjoyed the book as well. Its history at its best, some very interesting stories about Norfolk Island and Port Arthur and cannibal convicts, a very enjoyable tale. Maybe some Australians aren't too happy with this side of our history but never the less its still our history and this book makes it enjoyable to read about.	1998-08-02
US	53066131	R1G5WA40XH8GFX	0393305643	669188086	The Great War in Africa: 1914-1918	Books	5	28	30	N	N	Excellent account of this WW1 campaign	Byron Farwell offers the reader a well researched and well presented account of this often forgotten campaign of WW1. In just over 380 pages (hardback version) he covers all aspects of this little known campaign covering such incidents as L-59, the German Zeppelin which made the world's longest sustained flight, from Bulgaria to Central Africa and back! Hunting a German Cruiser on the Rufiji River by an elephant hunter (The African Queen?). Accounts of some of the terrible battels on land, one where both armies were routed by killer bees! Men fighting with spears, knobberries, machine-guns, planes and armoured cars. The author also offers an interesting account of that famous German commander who had the allied forces chasing themselves for so long; Paul Emil von Lettow-Vorbeck. This is a great story which I recommend to anybody who enjoys a well written history book.	1998-07-27
US	53066131	R32LK10A4GYUBZ	0785802126	404419260	Witness to Gettysburg	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Enjoyable &amp; Easy To Read Account Of This Famous Battle	This book offers an interesting account of the Battle of Gettysburg as seen through the eyes of participants, both North &amp; South, and civilian witnesses like towns folk and such. Not a detailed account of the battle but certianly a very easy to read and enjoyable (if you can say such about a terrible battle) story about this period of history. The use of first person accounts/recollections fits in with the historical narrative of the author which makes this book a pleasure to read.	1998-07-23
US	53066131	R27B1R5NLGFTD6	1885119410	964144534	The Grim Reaper : Machine-Guns and Machine-Gunners in Action	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A very good account of this war winning weapon	I would agree with the earlier review that this is not a technical manual, its about machine-guns and machine-gunners in action and as such it offers a easy to read account of this weapon and its place in military history. The author offers enought technical detail about the various weapons so you obtain a firm understanding of how they work. He then places the weapons, their inventors and the people who had to use the weapons into their place in history. This was a very easy and enjoyable book to read and some of the accounts of the 'machine-gunners' were excellent. Overall this is a well researched and well presented book with over 300 pages of text and numerous black &amp; white photographs which provides the reader with an overview of the machine-gun in history.	1998-07-23
US	53066131	R36YKKQ8KKS7Y6	0316853259	747858545	Like Men of War: Black Troops in the Civil War, 1862-1865	Books	4	8	9	N	Y	Very interesting piece of Military History	Noah Trudeau is a great author of Civil War history and in this book he once again shows that he is a craftsman of his art. This is only one of two books I have every read that have showed the role that negroes played in the military history of the United States. I have read many books on the American Civil War and very few have ever mentioned U.S. Black Troops, at long last this gap in American history has been filled. The narrative is excellent and the author has researched his topic well, covering almost every major skirmish and action undertaken by these troops. Its a shame that these actions weren't in more detail &amp; depth but I suppose the author had constraints on time and size (the book is 548 pages). He has placed each action in context within the war and the political feeling at the time. The author has used letters, diaries and after-action reports of the participants and others involved (reporters &amp; politicians). Overall the book offers the reader a very good overview of the role of coloured troops during the Civil War.	1998-07-11
US	53066131	R17752807C0DHE	1898697302	158417358	The Sky Their Battlefield: Air Fighting and the Complete List of Allied Air Casualties from Enemy Action in the First War: British, Commonswealth, and United States Air Services 1914 to 1918	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Excellent Book - none better covering this period	This book is a researchers delight. The effort that Trevor Henshaw has put into this book is staggering and if your are serious about WWI aviation this book should be sitting in your library. Mind you its not a book you can sit down and read but if you want to find out what happended on a particular day or follow the career of a particular pilot this is the book for you. During the time I researched 2 Australian pilots of WWI fame this book was invaluable. Just too detailed for words but excellent value for money.	1998-07-07
US	53066131	R3VMNAC3LEANCE	0871316579	562066541	Dungeon, Fire and Sword: The Knights Templar in the Crusades	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Excellent History!	Well looks like its all been said already, this is a great book, it covers not only the Order of the Knights Templar but the Crusades as well, what more could you ask for? The narrative is rich with history, people and places and the author conveys the times well. This is a great story and leaves you wanting to know more about these people and the times in which they lived. A well presented and easy to read account, buy a copy and enjoy!	1998-07-03
US	53066131	R28HWJEUNGXEUF	0385483260	495318696	Last Apocalpyse	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Very informative &amp; entertaining account of the Year 1000 AD	James Reston's account of Europe during the years leading up to and at 1000 AD makes very interesting reading and is quite enjoyable. The first few chapters covered the Vikings and sometimes you felt as if the author was pulling your leg with some of the names of the people &amp; leaders involved, eg; 'Forkbeard', 'Blueteeth' 'Bloodaxe', 'Lapking' and many others. But as you read further into the story you realised that these people were real and that they were some of the players on the stage during this period of great turbelance along with 'Eirik the Red', 'Leif Eriksson' and 'Alfred the Great'. By the middle of the book I started to find some of the names of people and places I have read about before in Spain, Europe and the Byzantine Empire. Overall this was a very enjoyable account of some of the people and places that were involved in changing the face of Europe leading up to the first millennium.	1998-07-03
US	53066131	RG0ZURGQFA8UC	1572490179	354132140	The Struck Eagle: A Biography of Brigadier General Micah Jenkins, and a History of the Fifth South Carolina Volunteers and the Palmetto Sharpshooters	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A Great Battle History of a Civil War Unit	This book was a delight to read and the author, James Baldwin, went to great depths to research his subject matter. The biography of Brigadier General Micah Jenkins went hand in hand with the story of the 5th South Carolina Volunteers and the Palmetto Sharpshooters. I found that the maps provided were detailed and easy to follow and helped the reader to follow the narrative of that particular event or action the author was describing. I did notice that there was a different point of view as to who was at fault for the Confederate failure during the battle of Lookout Mountain fought during October 28-29 1863. In this book the author places the blame upon Brigadier General Evander M. Law, (pages 233-241). In Wiley Sword's account of this incident in his book 'Mountains Touched with Fire' (pages 134-144), he places the blame more towards Micah Jenkins. But either way, he was a gifted leader and a brave man and one who shared a similiar fate to many leaders who lead from the front during the Civil War. Overall a well researched and presented book covering the many battles of this man and these units.	1998-07-03
US	53066131	R1PHTPT64H3HR8	0061008036	6837061	Blitzkrieg: From the Rise of Hitler to the Fall of Dunkirk	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Enjoyable history of the early days of WW2	I read this book in 1980 not long after it was first published in 1979 and I found it to be a very easy to read account of Hitler and the German Army during the early period of World War Two. As mentioned in the earlier review, the author offers a general overview of this period but covers such things as Hitler and his relationship with the German Army and its commanders, Hitlers 'style' of warfare, the concept of 'Blitzkrieg' and the weapons &amp; tactics involved and finally the camapign in France. The book is well researched and is very easy to read with 20 maps, 59 B&amp;W photos and a number of line drawings and charts to assist the reader. I do not think that the book or any of its ideas has aged since it was first published in 1979 and I would recommend it to anyone who is looking to understand how the German Army conquered all before it in 1940.	1998-06-28
US	53066131	R2IZJSPENUGTD8	0060925973	377812446	Knight's Cross : A Life of Field Marshal Erwin Rommel	Books	5	22	23	N	N	An excellent biography of a Great General	There is not much one can add to the other reviews of this very interesting book. The author, David Fraser, offers the reader a well researched and honest account on the life of Field Marshal Erwin Rommel in 562 pages (hardback version). This has been one of the better biographies on Rommel I have read in some time and one of the best military biographies I have read in the last couple of years. I don't think that too many people would not enjoy this account, the author certianly portrays Rommel with his faults as well as his great points and I believe he has tried to present his subject as honestly as possible. A very enjoyable book to read and well researched and presented.	1998-06-28
US	53066131	R1TBV1XDGSXQ8E	0091744210	116396009	Punic Wars	Books	5	20	24	N	N	Excellent one volume account of the Punic Wars	This book by Nigel Bagnall, a Field Marshal in the British Army, is one of the best books I have ever read covering Ancient military history. This book introduced me to the lifes and times of such great leaders as Hamilcar Barca, Hannibal and Scipio Africanus to name a few. The author presents a well researched account of the military struggle between Rome and Carthage and does it so well that the book is a joy to read. The book covers the First Punic War, 264-242 BC, the period between the wars (241 - 218 BC), the Second Punic War, 218 - 201 BC and the third and final Punic War between 149 - 148 BC which saw the destruction of Carthage as a power and as a city! A great book!!!!	1998-06-27
US	53066131	R3AJSNUB0AMSZO	0679753036	349762134	Soldiers of the Sun: The Rise and Fall of the Imperial Japanese Army	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Interesting and detailed account of the Japanese Army	This is a fine one volume account of the Imperial Japanese Army. The book covers its creation in 1868 until its final defeat in 1945. If you want to know why the Japanese Army could accomplish the things it did and why the Japanese soldier could do the brutal things that he did this book goes a long way to help you understand. At the same time it provides a insight into the dealings between the Army and the Navy, the Army and the Politicians and the Army and the people. A well researched and very interesting book.	1998-06-27
US	53066131	RUI9ZWN58HVYS	1556114842	312473542	Crisis in the Pacific	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Insight to the men who fought in the Philippines during WW2	Another great effort by Gerald Astor, this time he offers the reader an oral history of the fighting in the Philippines during WW2. The author draws his narrative from the experiences of American Marines, soldiers, sailors and airmen and covers the first and second campaigns conducted in the Philippines during the war. The book provides an interesting and detailed insight into the experiences of the common soldier and helps those who have never experienced such things an understanding why men do certain things. An enjoyable and easy to read account of a WW2 campaign.	1998-06-27
US	53066131	R1O7Y06YUSDCPS	0380603764	210025764	An Indecent Obsession	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Excellent novel	This is a bit off from my normal reading but I first read this book about 20 years ago while on leave from the Army I couldn't put it down. I found it at my girlfriends house and when I went home I found my mothers copy and sat there and read it to the end in one sitting. A great book and a well told story and I loved it but don't ask me why as I just don't know! It was made into a half decent movie not long ago as well.	1998-06-27
US	53066131	R1B5R05P3P2N5J	0312118597	922886977	Mountains Touched With Fire: Chattanooga Besieged, 1863	Books	3	4	4	N	Y	Well Researched Account Of This Battle	Overall there is not much that I can add to the last review of this book offered by Amazon.com. I must say that the author provides more than enough detail of the events and personalities leading up the battle of Chattanoogo in 1863. And as the previous review makes mention he certainly covers all aspects of the soldiers and generals lives during this campaign . Of interest was the in-fighting between the Southern Officers and the decent and honest appraisal of Grant, Sherman &amp; Thomas and who the real hereo/s were. The only thing that I could fault this book on was that you had to read nearly half of it until you got to the fighting, however once there it became a great book. The maps were OK but there could have been more and an index to their locations. The actual accounts of the fighting were excellent, however the lead up to the battle was, at time, tedious. Overall a good solid book which covers all aspects of the battle and the men involved and as good as Peter Cozzens &quot;Shipwreck of their hopes'.	1998-06-27
US	53066131	R3FG51DO7GCKN2	1556115105	547722131	The Mighty Eighth: The Air War in Europe as Told by the Men Who Fought It	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	Interesting and thoughtful account of the 8th Air Force	I have been a keen fan of Gerald Astor since I first read his book 'Operation Iceberg'. Up until that time I was not keen on oral histories but this author has changed my mind in regard to this style of history. In this book he once again produces an excellent and moving account of the strains, experiences and horrors that men bear in wartime. This book covers the American daylight effort in the airwar over Europe which was just as horrific as that of the British &amp; Commonwealth nightime efforts. At times when I read this book I could picture the spinning and burning B-17's and B-24's going down and I think that this is a timely book to remind us of the young men who went down with those planes on behalf of their family, friends and country. The book offers a good overview of the terrible battles over Europe and also covers the efforts of the fighter pilots and ground crew. Enjoyable and sad!	1998-06-27
US	53066131	R36L2O55AB7YIS	0345258851	244426828	The Enemy at the Gates	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The best book written on the battle to date	I first read this book in 1976 and so far I haven't found a better account of this great struggle on the Eastern Front during WW2. If you can get a copy of this book it will be money well spent! Over 450 pages of text with a number of black & white photos during which time I'm sure you wont put the book down. Filled with personal accounts that keep you gripped to the narrative, this is an excellent account and I highly recommend it to anyone who really wants to learn about what happened at Stalingrad.	1998-06-27
US	53066131	R2SRJHCIPP5DRY	1885119151	74879378	The Devil's Adjutant: Jochen Peiper, Panzer Leader	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Excellent account of Jochen Peiper during the Ardennes only	I really don't have much to add to the earlier reviews and I agree with all the comments about Peiper's time on the Russian Front which I thought this book would cover in great detail. I was really looking forward to accounts of the fighting on the Russian front and although this book offers an excellent account of Peiper's role in the Ardennes Offensive I wanted more of his earlier involvement in the war. Besides that this is a great book and if you enjoy accounts of the 'Battle of the Bulge' you are bound to love this book. I am yet to read the author's second book &quot;Steel Inferno&quot; but I have only seen/heard great reviews so far.	1998-06-23
US	53066131	R1XA8JAWMM7AV8	0679416501	716006333	Byzantium: The Decline and Fall	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Excellent account of the Byzantium Empire	This, the final volume of a 3 book series, brings to end a rivetting and excellent histoty of the Byzantium Empire. I cannot add anything to the other reviews and comments on this series other than to say if your enjoy reading about history you should love these accounts of this Empire and its times. I found my first volume in a 2nd hand shop without knowing anything about its author or the subject matter. It was a great read and I could not wait to buy the following two volumes. I only wish I had read these books before I visited Istanbul in 1990. I loved them, they are excellent histories, the author does a great job in bringing the characters and times to live. Read the series and lose yourself in the history. Great books!	1998-06-17
US	53066131	R13V6EH70S6VTS	0938289802	409171083	Second Bull Run Campaign (Great Campaigns)	Books	4	17	17	N	Y	Concise but informative account of this Civil War Battle	This is the third book I have read from the Combined Books 'Great Campaign' series and I must admit also the best so far. Although it only offers a concise account of the events leading up to the battle, the battle itself and the aftermath (all in 256 odd pages) it is still a very good read. The author offers an excellent story about this blotched campaign with 14 good maps to help follow the action and a number of topical sidebars for further information (I liked the one about the oldest surviving soldiers of the battle!). This is a well researched and well presented book and it was pleasure to read. I am sure that there are a number of very detailed books covering this battle/campaign and the author offers a number of good choices for further reading. For example; 'Return to Bull Run' by John Hennessy and 'Stonewall Jackson at Cedar Mountain' by Robert Krick, however this book wets your appetite for taking the plunge and aquiring a more in depth volume or it may certainly satisfy your interest with just this account. I would recommend this book for anyone looking for a decent account of this battle. One point in regard to this book is that a small number of typo errors were noticed which should have been picked up by the editor, but once again it did not detract from the value of the book, a good story!	1998-06-14
US	53066131	R1ROLI99WJF4B9	0471157279	664566972	Grant Wins the War: Decision at Vicksburg	Books	4	8	10	N	Y	Absorbing Historical Account Of A Civil War Battle &amp; Siege	This is an excellent account of the Battle and subsequent Siege of Vicksburg during 1863. The author, James Arnold, writes a detailed account of the events and incidents leading up to General Grant closing a ring around the defences of Vicksburg. The author covers the plans and ideas of the Union and Confederate Commanders and their political masters during this battle. His narrative of the fighting is well presented and very stiring and although you could probarly find more detailed accounts, he still tells a great story. I had only one problem with this book and that was the authors narrative in connection with map 8, The Battle of Champion Hill. I felt that his directions mentioned in the text did not match the map but maybe I was wrong (maybe someone can let me know?). Either way this is a good story and well worth the time to sit down and read.	1998-06-10
US	53066131	R36208CCD90SRE	0454008163	393185911	Pozieres, 1916: Australians on the Somme	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A Great Book Of This Terrible Battle	Maybe because the book covers the Australian involvement on the Somme at Pozieres I may be a bit bias here but this is one of the best books I have read covering this terrible battle. I have no hesitation in rating it as being equal with Martin Middlebrooks 'The First day on the Somme' and Lynn Mac Donalds 'Somme'.<br />The book is 318 pages with 6 maps and a number of black &amp; white photos. I had no problems when I used this book as a battle field guide when I visited the 'Windmill' at Pozieres and walked around the various sites of the fighting. The author, Peter Charlton, uses first hand accounts to help tell the story of the battle. He also provides detailed information on the events leading up to the Somme offensive and Australia's role in the 'Wearing-out battle'.<br />For those not aware of Australia's involvement in WWI more Australians fell at Pozieres than on any other battlefield in the world. It's a sad period of our history and I was glad that somebody took the time to tell the story of these brave and gallant men who fought and died there. This is a great book and I would recommend it to all who love history or books on WWI .	1998-06-07
US	53066131	RITS1PTKUOAWZ	0718117352	781221011	They Called it Passchendaele: Story of the Third Battle of Ypres and of the Men Who Fought in it	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Get a copy if you can!	Lynn MacDonald is one of my all time favourite World War One authors. I have read all of her books, '1914', '1915', 'Somme' and this volume covering Passchendaele. She has the ability to bring to life the voices of those involved in this terrible, terrible conflict. This was one of the worst battles fought during a war known for its carnage. She tells the story through the letters, reports and accounts of those involved and she tells it very well. I found this book and her account of the Somme very hard to put down and I have no hesitation in recommending this title to anyone who has a love for military history or a good story.	1998-06-06
US	53066131	R2DYTVJ5NX5X2I	0275946940	793125335	Napoleon Conquers Austria: The 1809 Campaign for Vienna	Books	4	6	6	N	N	One of the better books on Napoleonic battles	I found 'Napoleon Conquers Austria' to be a well researched and written book covering the 1809 campaign for Vienna. The author presented the campaign in such a fluid style that I lost track of time whilst reading the book. His account of the Battle of Wagram was excellent and there was 13 maps to assist the reader to follow the action. I think that the maps could have been better presented but they were sufficient, the illustrations (19) were interesting with some recent photos of the battlefields. Overall this was an easy to read account of this famous campaign and it was an enjoyable journey to take. I would recommend it to anyone who enjoys Napoleonic history.	1998-06-03
US	53066131	R186TNFTEHPT8B	0316545317	70090647	A World Lit Only by Fire: The Medieval Mind and the Renaissance - Portrait of an Age	Books	5	2	8	N	N	Entertaining view of the Renaissance	Firstly I must admit that I have very little knowledge of the Renaissance (I found it a boring subject at school!) but I found this book to be a very interesting and entertaining account of that period. The author makes clear at the start of the book that it was not going to be a scholarly masterpiece. Fair enough, he produced what I think was a good book that got you thinking about the subject he was presenting. Now that he has sparked your interest you can go and find some scholarly tome to get the rest of the story. This book was an easy to read and lively account of that period and I found it a joy to read.	1998-06-01
US	53066131	R1RHYSD21UFGKJ	0938289462	970985083	General John Buford	Books	4	14	14	N	Y	Highly readable account of a Union Cavalry Officer	As mentioned in the other reviews the author was limited in the amount of primary resource material available to him whilst writing this biography. Taking that into consideration he has produced an excellent account of General John Buford. I found the narrative was fluid and easy to read and the chapters concerning Gettysburg and after very interesting. The book is 312 pages in length, contained in 12 chapters with 6 maps and 16 photos. Overall this is a well presented and researched book but does not offer an extensive account of this man's life due to the lack of material. I would think that any person who enjoys Civil War history should find this an enjoyable account of a professional Union cavalry officer.	1998-06-01
US	53066131	R1LVBBHGD2KWFC	0811702022	665210517	Battle at Bull Run: A History of the First Major Campaign of the Civil War	Books	4	21	23	N	N	Very enjoyable account of this battle	This new and revised edition of the original 1977 book offers the reader a splendid narrative of the first major battle of the American Civil War.  On the 21st of July 1861, 60,000 American soldiers from the North and South met along the banks of Bull Run. In the fighting that followed the Union forces lost 2,900 out of the 20,000 men engaged while the Confederates lost 2,000 out of about 17,000 engaged.<br />The first half of the book describes the Union and Confederate forces as they muster their men into the first armies of the Civil War.  It continues with an outline of the events' leading up to the battle and gives you a feeling for, and an understanding of, the main characters involved. Future heroes and leaders of the Civil War come to the fore, such men as `Stonewall' Jackson, Jeb Stuart, A.P. Hill, Jubal Early and Joseph E. Johnston for the Confederacy and men like William T. Sherman, Ambrose Burnside and Irvin McDowell for the Union.<br />The final chapters describe the fighting from Blackburn's Ford to the final rout of the Union Forces on the evening of the 21st. The author's description of the intense fighting is gripping and written in such a fluent style that it holds you to the narrative. Although the casualties for this engagement were not significant when compared to those bloody battles that followed you still feel for the individual soldiers who were caught up in this terrible War.<br />This book is an enjoyable and easy to read story and is well presented by a number of photographs taken at the time of the battle or shortly after.  The author has included 8 small, but easy to read maps that help you follow the outline of events during the battle. This book is recommended to any body who has a love for this period of history or to the general reader who likes a good story.	1998-05-24
US	53066131	R3518XX6C0945M	0938289578	538592656	Spanish American War, 1898 (Great campaigns)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Interesting &amp; concise account of the Spanish-American War	This book is published by Combined Books in Pennsylvania and is presented in hardback with eight chapters, 352 pages, extensive Appendixes, maps, biographies, sidebars and illustrations. The book offers a clear and concise account of the Spanish - American War fought in 1898. The author reveals the reasons and circumstances leading up to this conflict after giving an account of Commodore George Dewey's attack on the Spanish squadron under the command of Rear Admiral Patricio Montojo y Pasaron at Manila Bay on the 1st May 1898.<br />The author then covers the Santiago Expedition to Cuba, the naval campaign of Santiago, the fall of Santiago, the American campaign in Puerto Rico, the campaign in the Philippines and then finally the result and outcome of the war. Overall the story is easy to read and the narrative flows along quite well. A small number of typing errors where noted which should have been picked up by the editor but these were very minor in nature.<br />The book is well presented and researched and offers the reader details on other good books covering specific areas of the conflict for further reading. The author also offers details on places to visit (in the United States only), simulation games on the market and films.<br />An interesting detail about this book, which is common with most Combined Books, is the use of 'sidebars'. These sidebars are at the end of each chapter and they provide further or more detailed information about subjects in the narrative. Being at the end of the chapter they do not interrupt the reader, as some footnotes tend to do.<br />The sidebars are there if you wish to obtain further information on a certain personality, weapon, organisation or incident. You do not have to read these sidebars to keep abreast of what the author is telling you, you can miss them all together and go onto the next chapter if you so wish. I found some of the sidebars very interesting, like the one covering why the USS Maine blew up, the 'Rough Riders' or the Medal of Honor.<br />Overall this!  is an enjoyable book offering the reader a decent account of this &quot;splendid little war&quot;.Riders' or the Medal of Honor.<br />Overall this!  is an enjoyable book offering the reader a decent account of this &quot;splendid little war&quot;.	1998-05-24
US	53066131	R95XEAMZ0GSQ6	0394515765	339001154	The Scramble for Africa: White Man's Conquest of the Dark Continent from 1876 to 1912	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Very informative account of the fate of Africa	This massive book (738 pages plus photos &amp; maps) offers the reader an interesting and enjoyable account of the European powers race to 'civilize' the African continent. The book covers the great explorers, the numerous battles and conflicts  (between the European powers and the natives and between the European powers) and many other interesting items during this 'scramble for Africa'. I found this book to be a great read, very enjoyable and although the size may be daunting it never got boring. The author covers the period from 1876 through to 1912 in 37 chapters of interesting reading. &quot;Whatever happens, we have got the Maxium gun, and they have not!&quot; about covers it!	1998-05-21
US	53066131	R20LKQYOR78X9Q	0671628224	85910580	The Washing of the Spears: The Rise and Fall of the Zulu Nation Under Shaka and Its Fall in the Zulu War of 1879 (Touchstone Books)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The best account of the Zulu War	I have a 1965 copy of this great book and I don't think that there has been a better account of the rise &amp; fall of the Zulu nation. This is one of the best accounts of how the Zulu nation become one of the most feared in Africa under Shaka and how it fell to ruin under Cetshwayo during the war with England in 1879. A great read that has not aged in these 30 odd years. This book has been the standard that all others have been compared to since its publication. It's one of my all time favourite books and I have no hesitation in recommending it to anyone who has a love for this period or a passion for history.	1998-05-21
US	53066131	R3U531Y155INIB	038531129X	905531819	Mary Queen of Scots	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Interesting story of a Great Woman in history	I must admit that my usual style of book is military history but my Scottish heritage tempted me to look at this book and I loved it. The author presents a tragic tale in such a well written way that I just lost track of time reading the story. Its a well research and written book and I think anybody who has a love for history would enjoy this book. The only thing I disliked about this book and its only minor, is the french phrases used without any translation supplied. Overall its a great story and a good read.	1998-05-13
US	53066131	R1IBWP9FBZXRPW	1560982381	524695248	The Great War In The Air: Military Aviation from 1909 to 1921 (Smithsonian History of Aviation Series)	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Comprehensive over-view of aviation during the Great War	I bought this book some years ago to assist me in some research I was doing on two Australian pilots of WWI. This book provided a detailed account of the aircraft, engine and armaments development and design, the politics between governments, air services and manufactures. It also provided ample details on what was happening on the war front to keep you interested. The book provides detailed facts and figures to give you a insight into war production and the problems faced by aircraft manufactures and the government bodies involved. The book itself never became boring and was enjoyable to read as it detailed the tactics used on the Western Front and other theatres of WWI. Stories of the great aces and their combat experiences intermixed with details of the feuds between politicians at home kept you glued to the story. Overall this book is an excellent one volume account of aviation during the Great War and any person interested in this subject will find this book a joy to read. Deserves to be on the shelf of any WWI avaition library, recommended reading.	1998-05-09
US	53066131	R1615I422JVVGT	0297816683	831856812	Our War: The Story of the Unsung Heroes of Her Majesty's Foreign Legions	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Different view of the Second World War	This book offers a refreshing and different view of the Second World War. For most people of the British Commonwealth be it Australians like myself or from the far flung reaches of Africa most accounts concentrate on England, America, German, Japan or Russia. I would think that many people who read this book would be surprised at the number of Countries of the old Empire/Commonwealth who supplied men and women to help in the war effort. The author also attempts to show how racism reared its ugly head at times and the effects on the men involved. I throughly enjoyed this book, it had accounts from sailors, airmen, soldiers and female volunteers from many varied and different countries of the Commonwealth. I was surprised by some of the nations who supplied men to fight in Italy and in the skies above England and Europe. The book also made me sad at times, for the lives lost and wasted in this terrible conflict. I would recommend this book for anyone of the old Commonwealth who would like to see what their country-men did for their nation during WW2 or for any reader who enjoys a good book on the Second World War. An excellent account!	1998-05-08
US	53066131	R10HRQ0UNO0IJE	068811282X	171072323	Conquering the Valley: Stonewall Jackson at Port Republic	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	An enjoyable read about a little known battle	I found this book to be well written, extensively researched and very well presented. It took me some time to get into the book but after the first few chapters I was hooked. The depth of information is excellent, the maps well presented, well placed and easy to read. I had no problems in reading this book and understanding the flow of the battle. The stories of the individuals involved in the fighting were interesting and did not distract you from the narrative. At first I thought the author may have had a Southern bias but I was wrong, he presented both sides well and he highlighted acts of bravery on both sides. I am still reading this book with but a few chapters to go and I have enjoyed it very much. In fact I have enjoyed it so much that I intend to order the author's 'Stonewall Jackson at Cedar Mountain' as soon as I can. This book is well worth the time to read.	1998-05-04
US	53066131	R3D59RTRE1P6B2	1879664259	859532312	High Tide at Gettysburg: The Campaign in Pennsylvania	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Great account of this famous battle	When the movie on Gettysburg was first released in Australia I tried desperately to find a book to read about the battle. I found this one and I enjoyed it a great deal. It may not be the most detailed account available but I found it to be one of the best that gave a complete overview of the 3 days fighting without getting lost or bored. The authors style of writing was refreshing and enjoyable and I found it hard to put the book down. Still one of my favourite books on this battle although I have read many since.	1998-04-19
US	53066131	R29VCOMA8B5OWL	1885119313	886443435	It Never Snows in September: The German View of Market Garden and the Battle of Arnhem, September 1944	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellent account of this WW2 battle	This is one of the better books you'll find covering the famous WW2 battle at Arnhem. The author covers the fighting from the German perspective and covers the battle in great detail. The excellent maps and numerous photos, some not published before, make this a must have book for the historian or anybody interested in this battle. Well worth the money.	1998-04-18
US	53066131	R1SQJ8VUUA0QJT	0312155484	553939074	How Far from Austerlitz?: Napoleon 1805-1815	Books	4	6	9	N	N	A good read	Regardless of the mistakes that have been mentioned I don't think that it detracted from this book. I thoroughly enjoyed reading this account of Napoleon and I still think that Alistair Horne is one of the best historical writers on French history around today. The book's narrative flowed along well and it was a pleasure to read, I really did not notice the mistakes mentioned and in total they are only minor. Take the time to sit down and read this book, its worth it.	1998-04-17
US	53066131	RZ671DV1RFNTO	0805047344	453534220	The First World War: A Complete History	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Enjoyable history	I found this book to be one of the easiest one volume accounts to read on the Great War. The information supplied in the narrative was fascinating and it flowed along very well. I found it hard to put down although when reading it in hardback format you need to so as to rest your arms. This is a great historical account of that terrible and destructive period and you do not forget the men and women who suffered by being slugged with numerous statistics and figures. Well worth the money, take your time and sit down and have a good read!	1998-04-17
US	53066131	R34S7KJ3O2CJLJ	0684803755	520140173	Shiloh: The Battle That Changed the Civil War	Books	4	14	15	N	N	OK historical account of this famous battle	This was the first (and so far only) book I had read on this famous battle and I must say that at times I found the book to be confusing. Overall the book provided a good account of the battle and it was an enjoyable read. The author provides 15 detailed and easy to understand maps of the action and a number of photographs of the battle area and personalities. I must say however that the book did not get me involved as other books I have read on the Civil War. I did not get a feel for the soldiers or the Generals and the narrative on the fighting did not draw me into the text like Sears, Priest or Rhea. This was still a good book but not great!	1998-04-13
US	53066131	R8YT1EV2GV3	0253208637	828154150	The Iron Brigade: A Military History (Great Lakes Connections: The Civil War)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Excellent battle history of a Civil War unit	This is a excellent account of the Iron Brigade, the &quot;Black Hat Brigade&quot;, the only all western brigade in the Eastern army. This Federal unit fought at 2nd Bull Run, South Mountain, Antietam, Fredericksburg, Chancellorsville and Gettysburg and they fought well. This book was a delight to read and is one of my favourite books on the American Civil War. The book is well written and the narrative of the battles is assisted by easy to understand maps. One of the best unit histories to be printed for some time.	1998-04-12
US	53066131	R1RHI5QB4UAODJ	0807118737	796615899	The Battle of the Wilderness, May 5--6, 1864	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Page turning account of this terrible battle	I loved this book, it is one of the best written and researched accounts on the Battle of the Wilderness. With over 450 pages of text and 20 well presented and easy to read maps this book gives you a day to day and blow by blow account of this terrible battle. This is the definitive account of the Battle of the Wilderness and I highly recommend it to any person who loves a good book on the Civil War.	1998-04-12
US	53066131	R3X3BIG3ZBQND	0195107128	982353586	Before Antietam: The Battle for South Mountain	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Interesting &amp; informative account of forgotten battle	This was the first book of John Michael Priest that I had ever read and I found it to be a well researched and well presented account of the 'Battle for South Mountain'. I enjoyed it so much that I ordered his other book &quot;Antietam: The soldiers Battle' as soon as I finished this book. He presents the fighting through the eyes of the Northern and Southern soldiers and it is done is such an easy manner that the narrative flows along quite well. The only criticism I have of the book itself is the standard of the maps. There is quite a number of maps that assist the reader to follow the accounts of the fighting but I believe that he could have done a better job in their presentation. Overall this book offers the reader a very good account of this forgotten battle. Well worth the money.	1998-04-10
US	53066131	R6ACUH649IIMW	0811723372	216422533	The Fredericksburg Campaign: Drama on the Rappahannock, 2nd Edition	Books	1	2	14	N	Y	A disappointing book	I am sorry to say that after much excitment in finally receiving my copy of this book I was bitterly disappointed in the end. In fact I did not finish reading this book but I put it away half way through it. I really wanted to get to the fighting and to learn why this battle (disaster) took place. I wanted to read about the courage of those Union troops attacking the postions on the heights above the town, I wanted to read about the Angel of Marye's Heights but I couldn't, I just found it too hard to continue reading. The book didn't draw me it from the start, the narrative had no warmth to it.	1998-04-10
US	53066131	R3JCHFUKRRLI1S	0807822817	103014893	Bentonville: The Final Battle of Sherman and Johnston (Civil War America)	Books	4	6	8	N	Y	Excellent account of the Battle of Bentonville	This is a very enjoyable book to read and offers a detailed and well researched account of the final battle between Sherman and Johnston at Bentonville fought on March 19-21, 1865. This was the last full scale battle between the two opposing armies. The book has 9 maps which are well presented and the battle ones are very easy to understand and follow. Overall this book is a well documentated account of this very interesting and bloody battle.	1998-04-10
US	53066131	R233K8RLTQK0C	0807819689	903414164	The Battle of Belmont: Grant Strikes South (Civil War America)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Enjoyable account of this Civil War battle	This book offers the reader a well researched and presented account of the Battle of Belmont, the first battle in the Western Theatre and one of the first battles fought by Ulysses S. Grant. The book covers Grants attack on the Southern forces under the command of Leonidas Polk and Gideon Pillow at Belmont on the Mississippi River in Missouri on the 7th of November 1861. The maps in the book are easy to understand and guide the reader through the fighting, the narrative runs smoothly and offers a good overview of this battle. There is extensive notes and bibliography to assist the reader with further studies. Overall a decent book covering this battle of the American Civil War. An enjoyable read.	1998-04-10
US	53066131	R2L16W7QSRVYTS	0700607188	321089691	Davis and Lee at War (Modern War Studies)	Books	4	12	13	N	N	One of the best books on war time leadership	I found this book to be one of the best books about command decisions and relationships between Politicians and generals during the Civil War I have ever read. It covers the battles and the leaders of the Confederacy, both great and flawed. I found it hard to believe that some Southern leaders/generals fought harder against their own side in stupid little infights and disputes. The book goes a long way in explaining Lee's strategy and that of Davis and how they were different and the results of that difference. This book concentrates on the Eastern Theatre, the author's other book 'Jefferson Davis and his Generals' covers the Western Theatre of operations and is brillant in its examination of this area. Both books are well worth reading.	1998-04-10
US	53066131	R2VIZ1UM7GW4R0	0195084667	57509662	Antietam: The Soldiers' Battle	Books	4	7	9	N	Y	Well written account of this terrible battle	I enjoyed this author's other book 'Before Antietam: The Battle of South Mountain' so much that I had to read this book as well and I was not disappointed. I found it hard to compare this book with Stephen Sear's book 'Landscape turned Red' as I enjoyed that book just as much if not more. The two authors present this battle in their own way and I would not say one book was better than the other, I'd leave that to the individual to decide. This is a still a well researched and well written book, the narrative flowed along gracefully with numerous maps to assist the reader in locating each action and the flow of the battle. The only criticism which I found in this book as well as his other was the standard of his maps, I think they could have been better. Other than that this is a great book of a terrible battle, buy it and enjoy!	1998-04-10
US	53066131	R3AD5CHM2UGMPA	0813118379	521388301	Cushing of Gettysburg: The Story of a Union Artillery Commander	Books	4	21	22	N	N	Highly enjoyable biography	Before I read this book I had no idea who Lt. Alonzo Cushing was or what he did. This very enjoyable book provided a detailed insight into the life of Cushing as a cadet and through the Civil War until he met his death beside his cannons at Gettysburg. The author provides vivid descriptions of the life of a Union soldier during the war and the terrible battles that they fought. A very engrossing and enjoyable book. Recommended for anyone who likes a good read about mans courage during difficult times.	1998-04-10
US	53066131	R3MPDREDVGGQ71	0831713399	485659668	Chickamauga: Bloody Battle in the West	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Excellent account	Not much can be added to the previous review, I fully agree on the comments made. A well researched and presented book, very easy to read and follow. One of the best books on this battle I have read to date (this authors book on Gettysburg was one of the first books I had ever read on the American Civil War and I reckon one of the easiest to read on that famous battle). This book is worth the time to sit down and relax and enjoy a good read with a cup of coffee!	1998-04-10
US	53066131	R3J8NI6HM2PE4M	0700604618	220774724	Jefferson Davis and His Generals: The Failure of Confederate Command in the West	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Excellent Book, must read	After reading 'Davis &amp; Lee at War' I ordered this book from my local book shop and I loved it, more so than the first book. The author explains the relationships between Davis and his Generals who were trusted with the Confederacy's command in the West. That so much damage could be done to the Southern cause by these men in petty infighting is amazing. Beside analysising the Command/Leadership relationships it provides an overview of the battles and fighting in that theatre of operations. I highly recommend this book, it's a great read.	1998-04-10
US	53066131	R1SVCW3BGESI8C	067166834X	595058146	The Korean War	Books	4	11	13	N	N	A decent one volume history of the war	I read this book when it was first published in hardback and I found it to be well written and easy to read. It offers a complete overview of the war including the contributions of all nations involved. An enjoyable book from this British historian which covers all aspects of this forgotten war. Well worth reading.	1998-04-09
US	53066131	R2AVPFEZ82G36A	0684844516	327107439	Agent Of Destiny: The Life And Times Of General Winfield Scott	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Excellent Biography of a Great Man	I still haven't finished reading this page turning book. I have 2 chapters left and so far I have not been disappointed. Winfield Scott served his country well and I would hope that he has not been lost to history. This book brings to life this mans place in history. I enjoyed the chapters concerning his role in the American-Mexican War and I would like to read this authors book on that conflict, a shame it's no longer available. Buy this book and enjoy, recommended reading!	1998-03-31
US	53066131	R3FUEYX864HSAN	0807121363	773031948	The Battles for Spotsylvania Court House and the Road to Yellow Tavern, May 7--12, 1864	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent battle account	A great book on this terrible period of fighting, the chapters dealing with 'bloody angle' are great, excellent reading, riviting stuff with livid descriptions of the terrible fighting and suffering of the men. Ranks with his first book, another excellent and well researched account of another period of terrible fighting in the Wilderness. A great author, this book is well worth the money. I am looking forward to his next book!	1998-03-24
US	53066131	RW1JQDBCJDS34	0316853267	528635697	Bloody Roads South: The Wilderness to Cold Harbor, May-June 1864	Books	4	14	15	N	Y	Excellent account of the  Wilderness &amp; Cold Harbor	This first book of Noah Andre Trudeau's trilogy covering the final stages of the Civil War offers an excellent account of the fighting in the Wilderness and at Cold Harbor between May - June 1864. The personal accounts of the soldiers experiences during the fighting are well presented. The action scenes are well written and the book flows along quite well. An enjoyable book to read for anyone interested in this period of time.	1998-03-21
